HECEIVEO APR 1 7 SOM
AGREEMENTS
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. COLUNGWOODPLANT
•	THE EMPLOYER
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA ON BEHAJLF OF LOCAL 834L
/	THE UNION
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT HEALTH ft UFE INSURANCE AGREEMENT PENSION PLAN AGREEMENT
C>tyi4lUc&
COLLECTIVE LABOUR
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. COLLINGWOOD PLANT
THE EMPLOYER
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS|OF AMERICA ON BEHALFojF LOCAL 834L'
THE UNION
NUMER CAL NDEX
ARTICLE 1
Purpose............................................................. 1
ARTICLE 2
Interpretation.....................................................   f
ARTICLE 3
Scope of Agreement.......................................- -	3
ARTICLE4	;
Hours of Work ......................................................  4
ARTICLES
Rates of Pay.............................................—...... 7
ARTICLES
Seniority..........................................................  f#
ARTICLE 7 .
Designated Holidays................................................  13
ARTICLE 1
Vacations ...................................................... 29
ARTICLE 9
Union Security.................................................. 22
ARTICLE 10
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure............................. 24
ARTIQ.LE il
Miscellaneous .................................................. 27
ARTICLE 12
Duration of Collective Agreement................................ 29
APPENDIX "A".................................................... 31
Interim Wage Increases ......................................... 34
Compressed Work Schedule........................................ 37
6 2/3 Day, Four Crew Work Schedule.............................. 41
Letters of Understanding........................................ 44
INDEX BY SUBJECT MATTER
PARAGRAPH(S) , PAGE(S)
Accumulation of Seniority
II	(l ft
Agreement, Duration Agreement, Scope of Arbitration
A
6.04(2)-6.07 Letter #7,19 12.01-12.03
3.01	- 3.04 10.05-10.11
11-12
51,65
29
3
26
Bargaining Committee Bargaining Unit Work Bereavement
Breakdown - Pay, Remain on Job Pay, Sent Home
11.02 11.06 5.11
5.19-5.20
5.06
27
28-29
9
10 7
Calculation of Seniority Call-in Pay
Capable- Definition of... Change in Start Time Classifled/Unclasslfled Jobs
H	ft N
Compressed Work Schedule Cost of Living Allowance Coveralls
C
6.01
5.04
4.01	(2)
5.05
6.22
Letter #17
Letter of Agreement InterimWage Incr, Letter#11
10
7
5
7
18
62-63
37
34-36
55
D
Deduction of Union Dues	9.01-9.02
Definitions	2.01-2.02
Designated Holidays	7.01-7.07
it	Letter #21
Discharge	10.12-10.15
Disqualification	
-Failure to Qualify	6.21(5)
-Medical	6.18
Drug Related Problems .	Letter #1
Duration of Agreement	12.01-12.03
22-23
1-2
18-20
67
26-27
17
15
44
29
ExperimentalWork
E
5.21
10
PARAGRAPH(S)	PAGE(S)
FirstAid Visit Funeral Leave
F
5.07	8
5.11	9
G
Grievance &Arbitration Procedure	10.01-10.16
24-27
Hiring in Rates
m m »
Holidays-Observationof
m m	m
-Payment of Hours of Work
H
5.02
Appendix A 7.01-7.03 Letter #21 7.04-7.07
4.01
7
31-33
18-	19 67
19-	20 4-6
Interpretation
I
2.01-2.02
1-2
Job Evaluations Job Responsibilities Jury Duty
J
Letter #25	71
Letters#3,4	46-46
5,10	8-9
L
Lay-off	6.09-6.12
Leave of Absence-Matemity/Parental	6.16
-Personal	6.17
-Union or	6.19
Elective Office
Letters of Understanding -Accumulation of Seniority -Clarification of Term "Qualification” -Classlfled/Unclasslfied Jobs -Coveralls
-Drug Related Problems -Employment StandardsAct -Floating Holidays -Group R.R.S.P Job Evaluations
Letter #7 Letter #16 Letter#17 Letter#11 Letter #1 Letter 30 Letter #21 Letter#27 Letter #25
12-14
15
15
15-16
51
61
62-63
55
44
76
67
73
71
5"
Letter* of Understanding (cont'd)' -Job Responsibilities -Lay-offwhlle on Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation -Line Up (Posting of)
-Maintenance of Discipline -Mechanical Serv, Sect. Manning -Mlsc. Items 1998 Agreement . -Missed Overtime -Modified Work Programme -Overtime Distribution •
-Plant Closing -Recordingof Overtime -Retaining Seniority -Safety Shoes -Students
-Tax Calculation on Vacation Pays •Team Leaders
-Transferto Mechanical Service Section
-Vacation Scheduling
-Vacation Shutdown
-Washuptime
-Work Run-out
M
Maternity Leave
Mechanical Service Section Manning Medical Disqualification Miscellaneous ModifiedWork Programme
Notations
N
Overtime-Definitionof -Distribution of -Missed -Pay
-Recording of
Pay, Rates of
M N N
Plant Closing Plant Injury Protective Equipment Purpose
O
P
PARAGRAPH(S)	PAGE(S)
Letter#3	46-47
Letter#19 ■	66
Letter#23 Letter#29 Letter #4 Letter#28 Letter#14 Letter#24 Letter#26 Letter#22 Letter #15 Letter#8 Letter #10 Letter #9 Letter #12 Letter #20 Letter#13 Letter #5 Letter #6 Letter #2 Letter#18
69 75
48 74
59
70 72 68
60
52 54
53 56 66
57-58
49
50 45 64
6.16
Letter #4 6.18
11.01-11.07
Letter #24
15
48
15
27-29
70
10.16
27
4.02	6 4.01(2) (3) (4), Letter#26 4-6, 72,
Letter#14	59
5.03	7
Letter#15	60
5.01-	5.21
Appendix A
Letter#22
5.07
11.06(2)
1.01-	1.02
7-10
31-33
68
8
28
1
C
1
i
gOiy-gTiyg yseflURAgREEMENT
The Collective LabourAgreement is made and entered into as of the 27" day of April, 2Q02 between Goodyear Canada Inc., hereinafter referred to as the "Employer', with respectto certain employees at its Collingwood Factory, and the United Steelworkers of America, hereinafterreferredto as the "Union".
article 1
PURPOSE
1.01	it is the mutual desire of the contracting parties to promote co-operation and harmony and to provide an amicable method of settling any dispute or grievance that might arise between them.
1.02	They agree to work in harmonious relationship and undertake:
(a)	That there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by or on behalf of the employer regarding any employee covered by this agreement.
(b)	Thatthe Union, its membersor its agents shall not intimidate or coerce said employees into membership.
ARTICLE l
INTERPRETATION
2.01	inthis Collective Agreement and in its application, unless the context requires otherwise, the following words and expressionswill have the meaning hereinafter given to them:
(a)	"Employer" means Goodyear Canada Inc., Collingwood Factory, Collingwood, Ontario.
(b)	"employee" means and includes each and every employee of the Employer at its Collingwood Factory, save and except those employees covered by a Collective Labour Agreement with The International Union of Operating Engineers, quality assurance inspectors, supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff.
(c)	"probationer" means an employee without seniority.
(d)	"probationary period" consists of the first 672 working hours including overtime.
2
(e)	"qualification" means the ability to performthe operation to which an employee is assigned in a competent manner and to produce the same standard of quantity and quality of work as is usually obtainedfrom such operation; "to qualify" and "qualified" shall have a like meaning.
(9	"layoff' meansthe termination of work of an employee by the Employer
for an indefinite period, caused bythe decision of the Employer to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the employee was engaged; "laid off or "to be laid off shall have a like meaning.
(g)	the term "base rate" or "rate of pay" shall mean the rate per hourfor all day work operations.
(h)	the term "average hourly earnings" as used in this Agreement is defined as an employee's hourly earnings exclusive of all premiums; average hourly earnings will be based, where possible, on the earnings for the second week prior to date of application.
(I)	the term "vacancy" shall not include a vacancy caused by any of the following:
(j) when an employee is absent by reason of sickness or accident;
(ii)	when an employee is on vacation;
(Hi) when an employee is on an authorized leave of absence:
(|v) when a qualified employee is in layoff status.
(j) "seniority"or "section seniority" meansthe statusthat an employee
acquiresafter he/she has worked for the Employerforthe period of time prescribed in Section 2.01 (d) in any twenty-four month period.
(I<) "held" means hired into ortransferred into the position, qualifiedforthejob and have retained the skills and ability necessary to performthejob.
(I)	"temporary" shall mean up to and including six (6) months, with any extension mutually agreed upon.
2.02	In this Collective Agreement, wherever the pronoun "he" appears it shall be
construed as meaning any employee, male or female. in addition, the words
"will" and "shall" are considered to be interchangeable.
ARTICLE 3
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
3.01	The terms ofthis Collective Agreement shall applyto all employeesandthe Employerrecognizesthe Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for the said employees for the duration ofthis CollectiveAgreement,
3.02	The Union acknowledges that itls the exclusivefunction of the Employer:
(a)	to maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	to hire, discharge, transfer, upgrade, promote, demote or discipline employees and to increase and decrease the work force, providedthat if there is a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he/she has been disciplined or dischargedwithout just cause, it may be made the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in this Agreement;
(c)	to determine the qualifications of each employee;
*
(d)	to operate and manage its business In all respects and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to determine- the number and location of plants
-	the products to be manufactured
-	the methods of manufacturingand the production schedules to be used
-	the type and location of machines and tools to be used
-	the engineering and design of its products
-the control of material and parts to be incorporated into the product.
The Employer agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
3.03	There shell be no lockout, strike, slowdown or stoppage of work during the term <f this Agreement (r any extension thereof.
3.04	Intheeventthat any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement are found to be In conflict with any valid and applicable Federal or Provincial Law now existing, or hereinafter enacted, It Is agreed that such law shall supersede the conflicting provisions without in anyway affectingthe remainder of the Collective Agreement.
4
ARTICLE 4 HOURS OF WORK
4.01	(1)	The regular weekly schedule for the plant fe a five-day forty-hour week,
from Mondayto Friday inclusive. However, this shall not be construed as a guarantee of a specified number of hours of work per day or of days of work perweek
The hours of work will be as follows:
One Shift Operation: 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p,m. with one half hour lunch period
Two Shift Operation: 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m,
4:00 p.m, to 12:00 midnight with a 20 minute paid lunch period
Three Shift Operation: 1st: 12:00 midnight to 8:00 a.m,
2nd: 8:00 am to 4:00p.m.
3rd: 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight with a 20 minute paid lunch period
Shippings Receiving: Steady Day Shift 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m, with one hour lunch period
MaintenanceServIce Section: Steady Day Shift 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. with one-half hour lunch period
The above shift times may be changed by the Employer at any time after prior discussion with the Union Bargaining Committee and notification to the employees Involved.
(2)	(a) The Union recognizesthat it is the function of the Employerto schedule hours of work and the employee's obligation to work the hours scheduled, provided that the working schedule Is in conformity with the provisionsof the Employment Standards Act and the Regulations Issuedthereunder.
(b)AII overtimeshall be voluntary. The Employer undertakes to distribute overtimework equally and Impartially among all employees In the department In the following manner insofar as it Ja reasonably practicable to do so:
1)	Among all employees who are regularly assigned to the operation who are willing to work;
5
2)	Among all qualified employees on shift in the department who are willing to work;
3)	Among all capable employees on shift In the departmentwho are willing to work;
4)	Among all other qualified employees in the department who are willing to work,
5)	Among all capable employees In the departmentwho are willing to work:
6)	Among all employees who are qualified and who are willing to work;
7)	Among all employees who are capable of performing the operation and are willing to work;
8)	In the eventthe overtimework cannot b$ filled with clauses 1 through 7 inclusive, the most junior qualified enrployee(s) from the depaftmentwill be requiredto work, In accordance with the seniority list, the company will assign thejunior qualified employee first and continuethe assignment in reverse outer of seniority until the required number of ernplqyee(s) have been assigned.
Definition:
"Capable" means someone who is not fully qualified but has demonstrated the ability and skill to safely performthe requiredfunction of the job to which an employee is assigned In a competent manner andto produce to the same standard of quality and to a reasonably efficient standard of quantity as is usually obtained from such operation.
4.01	(3) Weekend overtime, for the employees regularly assigned to the operation
will be offered in the following order:
Day Shift overtime:	1 st Day shift
2nd Afternoon Shift 3rd Midnight Shift
Afternoon Shift Overtime:	1 st Afternoon Shift
2nd Midnight Shift 3rd Day Shift
Midnight Shift Overtime:	1st Midnight Shift
2nd Day Shift 3rd Afternoon Shift
6
Taking shift alignment into account, when scheduling overtime for both Saturday and Sunday, preference will be given to employees who am willing to work both days. ' -	: ‘
Overtime resulting in double shifts will not be asked unless it is ah
emergency.	'"	: ■
Weekend overtime requirements of 2 hours or less, immediately preceding or following the regularworkweek, will bedistributedas perthe regular work week.
4.01	(4) Maintenance Overtime
Employeeson rotating shifts will be asked for overtime for the floor first.
For overtime on special assignments the employees assigned to the Job Will be asked first.
Falling this anyone In the Mechanical Service Section can be asked.
4.02	Overtime work means all the time worked in excess of an employee's eight hour shift in any twenty-four hour period; it also means all work done by an employee from the end of the third Shift Friday untilthe Start of the first shift Monday.
Overtime work does not include:
(a) Time worked by employees substituting for one another at their Own request.
(5)	A change of an employee's working hours at his/her own request.
(c)	The regular shift change.
(d)	The time spent on employee ccTmr.ee work or similar activity; however,
such time will be considered part of an employee's shift hours In determining overtime hoursomregular departmental work, provided that the time occurred during the employee's regularshift hours, r
4.03	A ten-minute rest period Will be observed during each half of the employee's shift, at a time to be determined by the Employer, An employee who is requested to work at least two hours overtime, will be granted a ten-minute rest period. If am employee works more than tM? hours overtime he/she will be granted a twenty-minute rest period at a time determined by the Employer, in addition to the regular rest periodswhen they are observed on such shift. If an employee works more than four hours overtimebeyond the end of the shift, he/she will be granted the lunch period which is regularly granted on that shift. Smoking will be permitted in designated areasdurlrig the'rest period.
7
4.04	The Employer shall not reduce the regular working time of an employee because
he/she has done overtime work unless the employee consentsto such reduction, provided that a reduction on an employee's regular working time may always be made by the Employerto comply with the Employment Standards Act of the Province of Ontario and regulations thereunder.
4.05	The Employerwill provide adequate relief when and where necessary.
ARTICLES
RATES OF PAY
5.01	The rates of pay shall be the ones in effect at the date hereof, as set out in Appendix "A" and is attached hereto, and forms part of this agreement. They shall remain in effect for the balance of the term of this Collective Agreement.
5.02	The minimum hiring-in rates of pay in effect for the duration of this Collective Agreement are as set out in Appendix "A".
5.03	All overtime shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half, except for the period from midnight Saturdayto midnight Sunday, when double time shall be paid: however, overtime premiumwill not be paid twice for the same hours worked.
5.04	An employee not previously scheduled to work who is called to work and consequently works in an emergency on Sunday or on a holiday, or at any time between one hour after he/she has left work and two hours before his/her next scheduled shift, shall receive eitherfour hours at his/her regular rate of pay
or regular rate of pay plus premium pay applicablefor actual time worked, whichever is the greater. Itls understoodthatwhen such emergency is over,the employee will be permitted to leave the plant.
3.05	When an employee has not been notifiedof a change in his/her startingtime and he/she comes to work at his/her customary time, he/she shall be paid at his/her average hourly earnings, not to exceed base rate, .for four hours of his/her regular shift, providedthatthe employee has advised the Employer of his/her test and correct address and telephone number, if any. This shall apply only when conditions are within the Employer'scontrol. Such employee may be offered other suitable work, and ifhe/she refuses to accept such work he/she shal fortsi such pay.
06 When an employee reports far work on his/her scheduled shift and is sent horse by reason of some breakdown in the factory, he/she shall be paid at his/her averagehourly earnings, not to exceed base rate, forfour hours of his/her regular shift, providedthatthe conditions which causedthe breakdown ware within the Employer’scontrol. Such employee may be offered other suitable work, and ifhe/she refusesto accept such work he/she shall forfeit such p*y.
a
5.07	An employeewho is injured in the factory and la treated In the factory cr Is sent
to an outside hospital or to a doctor’s office shall be paid his/her regular rate of pay for time loston his/her shift less any monies received as Worker’s Compensation or Weekly Indemnity benefits.
5.08	Employees on afternoon and night shift operations shall be granted
premium payment as follows:
-For all hours worked on the regularly scheduled afternoon shift - $.35 per hour. -For all hoursworked on the regularly scheduled night shift-$,40 per hour.
5.09	Each member of the Bargaining, Grievance Committee who is present at meetings called by the Employer, at the regular monthly meeting with the EmployerorataSteplll or Step IV Grievance Meeting with the Employer shall be paid at his/her regular rateof payforthe period commencing one-half hour priorto the designated startingtime ofthe meeting untilthe time at which the meeting is adjourned. He/she shall be paid his/her regular rate of payfortime lostfrom his/her regular shift while attending negotiation meetingswlth the Employerfor renewal of agreements until such time as application is made by the Union for conciliation services.
5.10	An employeewho Is requiredto serve as ajuror in a legally constituted court or as a witness subpoenaed by the Crown shall be paid the difference betweenthe amount received for such service and his/her average hourly earnings for the time lostfrom his/her regularly scheduled work shift by reason of such service, subject to the following provisions:
!	(a) Employeesmustnotifytheirsupervisorwithintwenty-fourhoursafter
'	receipt of notice of selection for Jury duty or subpoenaed as a Crown
witness.
(b) Any employee called forjury duty or who is subpoenaed as a Crown
witness and who is temporarily excused from attendance at court must
reportforwork if a reasonable period of time remains to be worked in his/her shift.
i
I (c)	Employees selected forjury duty orwhoare subpoenaed as a Crown
witness who are on other than day shift shall be assigned to the day shift those days they are required to serve.
, >
(d)	Inorderto be. eligible for such paymenfs, the employee must furnish a
written statement from the appropriatepubllc official showing the date and time served and the amountbf pay received. Ths'Employer agrees to :	continuethe regularpay schedule of an employee serving on ajuryfor
the duration of his/her continuous absence. It is understood fhaitthese ■	wages are being paid on an advance basis and the employee must, upon
return, providethe above mentioned written statement and reimburse any overpayment.
9
(e)	Should an employee'sscheduledvacationbeaffecteddueto his/her selection for jury duty or his/her being subpoenaed as a Crown witness, his/her foremdh will reschedule said employee's vacation, if he/she so requests, in the currentyear.
5.11	An employee on the active payroll of the Employerwho is excused solely because of the death and funeral of a parent, son, daughter, husband, wife, brother, sister, parent-ln-law or grandchild, will, upon presentation of proof of death, be granted permission to be.absent and will be paidfortime lostfrom his/her regular working schedule by reason of such absence for three consecutive days including the day of the funeral.
In the case of an employee excused by the Employer solely because of the death and funeral of a grandparent, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, spouse's brother-in-law, spouse's sister-in-law, spouse’s grandparent or a dependentwho lives in the household of the employee, will be compensated, upon presentation of proof of death at his/her average hourly earnings for time lost by him/her from his/her regularworking schedule by reason of such absence, up to a maximum of three days for each such death and funeral. This provision to apply when It is necessary for the employee to make arrangementsfor and/or attend the funeral. If howeverthe funeral is not attended, and/or arrangements were not made by the employee, he/she will be paidfor lost time on only one of the above mentioned days.
If additional time off is required, approval must be obtained from the Industrial Relations Managersubjectto an explanation.
Forthe purpose of this section, a stepparent or foster-parent shall be considered as a parent and a stepson or step-daughter or foster-son or fosterdaughter shall be considered as a son or daughteronly when the step-parent cr foster-parent has taken the place ofthe natural parent in relation to such child and Is not in receipt of any financial aid for the support of such child.
5.12	An employeewill be paid average hourly earningsfor time lost on his/her operation if he/she is called away from same by his/her Employer.
5.13	Obvious mathematical errors in rate calculation and obvious inaccuracies relatingtojob content made at the time the rate was computedwill be corrected, unless more than ninety days have elapsed since the rate was effective, in which event corrections may be made only by mutual agreement.
5.14	It is agreed that the Employershall base its standards on the full useofan employee's time, which consists of full productive time on thejob less reasonable allowances.
10
5.15	When there is Insufficient work on an employee's regular operation to complete a full shifts work and the employee is temporarily assigned to a daywork operation on which he/she Is experienced, he/she shall be paid the base rate of the temporary assignment, providing a satisfactory effort is made.
5.16	When there Is Insufficient work on an employee's regular operation to complete a full shifts work and the employee is temporarily assigned to another operation on which he/she is inexperienced, he/she shall be paid either the base rate of the job assigned or his/her average hourly earnings of his/her regular operation, whichever Isthe lower, provided a satisfactory effort is made.
5.17	Ifthe Employertemporarily assigns an employee, forthe benefitofthe Employer, to another Operation on which he/she is inexperienced, while there is work available on the employee's regular operation, he/she will be paid his/her average hourly earnings, providing he/she has made a satisfactory effort.
5.18	ifthe Employertemporarilyassigns an employee, forthe benefitofthe Employer, to anotheroperatlon on which he/she is experiencedwhile there is work available on the employee's regular operation, he/she will be paid his/her average hourly earnings or the base rate ofthe temporary operation, whichever is higher, providing he/she has made a satisfactory effort.
5.19	Time lost on a shift by an employee, owing to breakdown, stock shortage, defective stock or any other reason beyondthe employee's control but within the Employer’s control, shall be paid for at the rate of his/her regular rate of pay, not to exceed base rate, However, in the case of a breakdown beyondthe control of both the Employer and the employee, the employee shall be paid their regular rate of pay, not to exceed base rate, for all time lost on his/her shift during the period he/she is required by the Employerto remain on the job.
5.20	Inthe circumstancescontemplatedln Section5,19, when an employeefinishes his/her shift on an operation providingfor a higher rate of pay, he/she shall receive the higher rate of pay in addition to pay for time lost.
5.21	All experimental work covered by an interdepartmental order will be paid at average hourly earnings providing a satisfactory effort is made.
ARTICLE 6
SENIORITY
6.01	Seniority shall be calculated after completion of 672 working hours including overtime.
6.02	An employee shall lose his/her seniority when he/she resigns or is discharged.
6.03	A laid off employee shall lose the seniority which he/she hadatthedateof his/her layoff whenever he/she fails to:
111
(a) informthe Employerof the address at which he/she can be reached when
required foreport fowork Changes c£such address maybe forwarded by mail, addressed to the Industrial Relations Department, andwill be acknowledged In writing.
(b)	Notify the Employerof his/her intention to return to work with in one
working day after having been notified to do so by messenger or within three working days after a notice to do so has been sent by registered mail or telegram, in either case to his/her last address on the records ofthe Employer.
(c)	Reportfor work within seven days after he/she has stated his/her intention to return to work, providedthatthe provisions of subsections (b) or(c) do not apply ifthe employee furnishesa reason satisfactory to the Employer within thirty days of his/her failure.
'In each of such cases, his/her employment and his/her seniority shall terminate at once without notice or other action on the part of the Employer.
6.04	(1) An employee with seniority who Is laid off and is not recalled to work by the Employer during the following twenty-four month period shall thereupon lose his/her seniority.
(2)	(a) In any one layoff period, a former employee with seniority in l ayoff status who held less than five years of seniority at time of layoff, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service to a maximum of nine months and will be credited with such seniority and service upon return to work.
(b)	In any one layoff period, a former employeewith seniority in layoff status, who held five years or more of seniority at time of layoff, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service to a maximum of eighteen months andwill be credited with such seniority and service upon return to work
The accumulation of seniority and service providedfor in this subsection shall notexceedthe periodof service attained by the employee as of the last day he/she worked priorto his/her layoff.
6.05	An employeewith seniority who is absentfrom work becauseof bodily injuries caused by accident or sickness and qualified to receive weekly Indemnity benefits underthe terms ofthe Health and Life InsuranceAgreementln effect from time to time between the Employer and the Union shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service duringthe period of his/her absence on the following basis:
(1)	An employee who has less than five years of continuous service with the Employerwill be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of one year.
12
(2)	An employeewho has five or more years of continuous service with the Employer, will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of two years.
(3)	Itls understoodthat in applyingthe provisions of this Article 6, the Company will abide by the "Ontario Human Rights Code".
6.06	An employee with seniority who is receiving Worker's Compensation benefits as a resultof a compensable injury suffered while in the employ of the Employerwill continueto accumulate seniority duringthe period in which he/she Is in receiptof such benefits.
6.07	The accumulation of seniority providedfor in Sections 6.05 and 6.06 shall not exceed the period of service attained by the employee as of the day on which he/she lastworked priorto such illnessor accident. The seniorityso accumulatedwill be credited to the employee upon his/her return to work.
6.08	The probationershall be anew employeeduringthe whole of his/her probationary period. His/her employment may be terminated at anytime without reference to seniority and in no event shall the employer have any obligation to rehire him/her or to offer him/her work.
layoff
6.09	For the purpose of applying the seniority provisions contained in this Article, the plant shall be divided into two Sections:
Hose Manufacturing Section
Mechanical Service Section
(1)	Forthe purpose of lay-off and bumping rights only, the mechanical services section will be divided into two departments:
(a) Electrical Service Department
(bj MaintenanceServIce Department
6.10	No employeewith seniority shall be laid off before ail probationersin the same . section are laid off.
6.11	The members of the Union Bargaining Committee and Executive Board shall be granted super seniority in their own sections, In the event that any of these employees should, become subjectto layoff, he/she shall not be laid off butshall Instead displace the employeewfth the least seniority in his/her section provided that he/she is qualified to performthe work of that employee.
6.12	(a) When it becomes necessary to lay-off an employee, the employee with
the least seniority in either the classified, or unclassifiedjobs affected will beconsideredthe surplus employee, and he/she will have the rightto displace other employees with less seniority as follows:
13
Employees 'on Classified Jobs
The surplus employe® from a classifledjob will:
(I) Displace the employeewiththe least seniority on the lest classified job held by the displaced employee in the factory on which he/she has qualifications, providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee. Failingthe above, the employeewould regress through his/her classified job positions in the factory on which he/she has qualifications, providing hielherfactory seniority is sufficientto displace such employee.
(li) Displacethe employeewith the least seniority on any unclassifiedjob in he factory on which he/she is qualified provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee. Failingthe above, the employee would displacethe lowest unclassifiedjob position in the factory, providinghis/her seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
Employees on Unclassifiedjobs
The surplus employee on an unclassifiedjob will:
(iii)	Displacethe employeewith the least seniority on the last unclassifiedjob held by the displacedemployee in the factory on which he/she has qualifications, providing his/her factory seniority is sufficientto displace such employee. Failingthe above, the employeewould regressthrough hielherunclassifled job positionsinthefactory on which he/she has qualifications, providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
(|V) Find his/her rightful position in accordancewith Article 6,12 (a).
/v\ Failingthe above, he/she would displacethe lowest unclassifiedjob position in the factory, provided hielher seniority is sufficientto displace such employee.
6.12	(b) Voluntary Layoffs
m If, in accordance with these layoff provisionsof Article 6, a layoff situation occurs, employde(s) inthe affectedjob classlflcation(s) will be given the option, in order of seniority, to accept a voluntary layoff.
14
When a voluntary layoffls possible, the Company will notify the Union by providing a listof the number of employees that must be surplused In the job olasslficatlon(s). Inaddltlon, a departmental notice will be posted. Employeeswho wish to apply for voluntary layoff, out of seniority must make application to their area manager within 48 hours of the posting of the notice,
I (ill)	Employees on voluntary layoff will be recalled only to the job held at time
of layoff. If more than one employee Is on voluntary layofffrom the same lastjob held, the least senior of that group will be recalled first.
(iv)	Upon request, an employee on voluntary layoffwill be placed on the regular recall list and be reinstated with the regular reinstatement provisionscontained in this Article 6.
(v)	When the regularrecall list is exhausted, employees on voluntary layoff will be recalled in reverse order of seniority and before any new employees are hired.
REINSTATEMENT
6.13	(1) In the event of an increase in production resulting in the recall of former employees, an employee who was placed on other work in the factory from a classified group, shall be reinstated inthe classifiedgroup in which he/she worked immediately prior to the date of placement, provided he/she is entitled to do so by virtue of his/her seniority, exceptthat ifthe said employee hasworkedforsix consecutive months on his/her new Job, he/she may in this case retain his/her new Jobby filing a written verification to hold that job and is noted and filed by the Company.
(2)	An employee who was placed on other work in the factory from an unclassified job shall be reinstated to his/her former unclassified Job; exceptthat, ifthe said employee hasworked six consecutive monthson hls/hernewjob, he/she may in this case retain his/her newjob by filing a written verification to hold thatjob and is noted and filed by the Company.
(3)	After all employees have been reinstated or transferred according to the provisionsof Subsection (1), the balance of employees in a layoff status shall be recalled inthe following manner:
,	(a)	All employees with recall rights will be recalled in order of seniority •
to classifiedjobs that may be vacant provided the employee is qualified on such classified job.
(5)	All employees with recall rights will be recalled in order of seniority
to fill classified or unclassifiedjobs that may be vacant.
15
In each case considerationwlll be given to the physical fitness c£ the Individual
forthejob, to ensure the safety of hlrrt/herself and others, and a competent working force shall be maintained at all times.
6.14	The Union acknowledges that in the administration of Article 6 itwill be necessary for the Employer to maintain a trained and competent work force at a! times.
6.15	An employee shall have the rightto examine his/her seniority records In the Industrial Relations Department at any reasonabletime. A master seniority list shall be posted showing the names of all the employees In the plant. This list be revised by the employer at regular intervals of approximately 6 months, and each revision will be posted In the plantas soon as possible thereafter. The Union will be supplied with a copy of the seniority lists at the time of the revision.
6.16	Maternity and parental leave shall be in accordance with applicable legislation,
6.17	An employee who wishes a leave of absence for personal reasons shall make written application to the Industrial Relations Department, settingcut the reason for his/her request. If granted, such leave shall be in writing and a Copy w* be given to the Union President. Leave of absence will not be granted for San-employmentor employment elsewhere. The employee must return to work on the date indicated in the letter of authorization and he/she will be placedon his/her previous Job providedthat he/she is able to perforrathe work. The . employeewill be credited with service and seniority during the period write he/she Is on leave of absence up to a maximum of two months. Welfare bene***, exclusive of weekly indemnity, will be continued during the period of leave of ; absence up to a maximum of to months.
6.18	An employee who is confirmed to be medically unableto continue working on
his/her own operation but is capable of handling lighter work will regress fraj^k ■. his/her previousjob positionsto a job on which he/she Isqualified and capatfeflf handling provided he/she has the seniority to do so. Failing that he/she wMiirili1 nis/her rightful place as outlined in Section 6.12.	v-
Fallingthat an employeewho has suffered serious Injuryor Impairment tore Goodyear employmentwhich results in permanent disability, or an employee nkh ten or more years of continuous service who is unableto continue on MaiaviMii operation butis capable of handling lighterwork, may be assigned to anMar retained at work upon mutual agreement between the Union and the notwithstandingthe provisions of this Article providedthe employee has amis v1 seniority than the employeewho he/she displaces.	•1
6.19	(1) An employeewho Is selected as a deleqateto a convention of •wUsiiii
16
Oranted such time as may be necessary for this purpose, provided that
such leave will not Interferewith the efficientoperationof the plant.
(2) An employee who Is elected or selected for M time duty as an officerfor, or representative of the United Steelworkers of America orto the executive staff of the Canadian Labour Congress or to the Ontario Federation of Labour, which assignment will take him/her away from his/her employment with the Employer, may apply In writing for leave of absence: such leave of absence shall be requested and granted yearly and shall cancel itself automatically upon termination of this Collective Agreement. For two years following the date the leave of absence Is granted, the employee will accumulate seniority and service for employment reinstatementand thereafter will retain seniority for as long as his/her leave of absence continues In fofljp. Following the termination of his/her leave of absence and his/her immediate return to work for the Employer, he/she shall be reinstated to all privileges of employment and he/she shall be offered the same work in the department which he/she had left or similar work at the then current rate of pay for such work. For pension purposes only, such employee shall be credited with the seniority and service which he/she has accumulated pursuantto the preceding paragraph until he/she first becomes eligible for a pension or severance award from one or the other of the United Steelworkers of America, or the Canadian Labour Congress or the Ontario Federationof Labour. As soon as he/she becomes eligible for a pension or severance from such organization, the employee then receives no creditfor such accumulated seniority and service but retains the seniority and service which he/she had at the date of the commencement of his/her leave of absence and will not have to return to active employment with the Employerto qualify for a pension or severance award if otherwise eligibleforthe same. The Pension Plan In effect at the date of the employee's application for retirement shall be the Pension Plan applicable to him/her,
6.20 All employees who transfer out of the Bargaining Unitwill forfeitthelr rightsto return to the Bargaining Unit.
An employee who has been temporarily assigned outside the Bargaining Unit (not to exceed 6 months In a one year period) and who returnsto the Bargaining Unit shall have seniority equivalentto the length of his/her continuous seniority with the Employerand shall be placed on the Jobwhjch he/8he previously performed.
Temporary assignmentswill include a 30 day evaluation period during which time, If either party has problemswfth the asslgnment-ft will be reviewed. By mutual agreementwith the Bargaining Committee (If no objections are raised) the assignmentwill be extended up to a maximum of 3 months. If the project Is Incomplete an additional extension, up to amaximumofe months must be mutually agreed upon.
17
If cutbacks occur duringthe temporary assignmentresultinginlayoffsthe employeewill returntothejob which he/she previously performed and will find his/her rightful position as outlined In Article 6, Section6,12.
(a)
(b)
(a)
(b)
Employees shall be granted the right to transfer only upon completion of one year of continuous service.
An employee with Seniority who wishes to transfer to another operation in the plantshallfile a written requestwlth the Industrial RelationsDepartment. stating the specific operation desired.
Each employee will be permitted to have one request for Transfer on file at any given time. A copy of each request for transfer will be providedto the employee involved and the Union President or his/her designate.
Requestsfor transfer shall expire after one (1) year or upon refusal to acceptthe transfer offered.
When a vacancy occurs, a notice of such vacancy shall be posted In the factory for at least 72 (seventy-two) hours exclusive of Saturday, Sunday and/or holidays. Only the written applications made by employees priorto or duringthe posting shall be considered.
All subsequentvacancies created by the filling of the vacancy will notbe posted but will be filled from the transfers on file In the Industrial Relations Department. If no transfers on file then normal hiring practices will prevail.
The employee with the longest seniority who has a request on file for transfer on that specific operation, or who has applied through postingand who can qualify, shall be transferred. An employeewill be transferred to the Mechanical Service Department only if he/slie Is qualifiedfor ajob on which a vacancy exists in that department.
If it is determined that the newjob is beyondthe capabilities of the transferred employee within a period of not more than 40 hours that employee shall be allowed to returnto his/her previous job. All subsequenttransfers created by the originaljob postingwill, in turn return to their previous position.
An employee transferred at his/her own requestto another operation will be paid the rate of his/her previous operation or 100 an hour below the maximumof the operation to which he/she has transferred whichever is the lesser until such time as he/she isqualifiedonthe new operation, at which time he/she will then be paidthe maximumrate of that operation.
An employee who is transferred and fails to qualify on the new operation will displace the employeewiththe least seniority In the unclassified group.
18
(7)	An employee who has had a request for transfer honoured under the
provisions of 6.21 will not be permitted to have another request for transfer honoured until the expiration of 6 months with the exception of textile spiral and crosshead operators for whom the period will be 9 months.	...
(8)	The Employer undertakes to notify the Local Union of vacancies available as a result of the establishment by the Employer of new operations or technology new to the plant at least five full normal working days before the vacancy occurs and a copy of such notification will be placed upon the plant bulletin boards. A discrepancy on rate of pay will be settled by an arbitrator.
6.22	For the purpose of this Article, a list of all departments of the factory and classified and unclassifiedjobs shall be given by the Employer to the Union from time to time
6.23	It is understood that, in the application of Article 6. where an employee may exercise his/her seniority rights consideration in each case, will be given to the physical fitness of the individual for the job, to ensure the safety of himselt/herself and others, and it will, in no way, limit the right of the employer to maintain a competent working force. This article is, in no way meant to be discriminatory and is intendedto reflect the bona fide occupational requirements of the job.
6.24	When an employee's work is run-out, and there is no other work to which he/she
is assigned, within five working days, seniority provisions will be applied in accordance with Article 6.	.. .....................
ARTICLE 7
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
7.01	A holiday is deemed to begin at the start of the first shift on the day of the
holiday. When a holiday occurs it may be necessary for some employees to work after the start of the first shift to complete work in progress or to close down property for the holiday. In the Mechanical Service Section, the minimum number of employees necessary to keep the factory in operating condition shall work on the holiday. From time to time emergencies may arise which will make it necessary for certain employees to work on a holiday in order that other employees will not suffer loss of time.
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day,
7.02	Employees who qualify will be paid an amount t
forone;	~	" ' ‘	'
CMc Holiday, Labour Day,
Thanksgiving Day, Boxing Day
before Ctatan. Christmas Day.
and two (2) additional holidays which will be floating holidays. thedateofwNUk' will be selected by the Employer.
I an additional statutory holiday Is proClalrhed by either level of government, such holidaywouldtake the placeofonecfthefloaters. ■
7.03	In event that Canada Day or Civic Holiday should fall during a scheduled Ptant vacation shutdown period, Such holiday Will be observed on another date dwtngr the calendar year designated by the Employer after discussion with the Union
Bargaining Committee,
7.04	Only the employee who actually works his/her last regular scheduled shift belora and his/her first regular scheduled shift following the holiday shall receive hoWay pay. In a case where there are circumstances beyond the employee's control and the employee could have worked If the factory had operated, payment fare holiday may be made upon recommendation of the employee's Department Foreman.
Subject to the above, an employee who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor's certificate and limited to a thirty day period exclusive of Saturday and Sunday which period Includes such designated holiday, shall receive holiday pay. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the employee receives as the result of such illness.
7.05	An employee required to work on a holiday shall be paid double time for time worked, |n addition to holiday pay,
7.06	An employee shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his/her regular vacation or the day before or the day after his/her regular vacation period provided that the said employee actually works his/her last regular scheduled shift before and his/her first regular scheduled shift following his/her vacation period and such holiday.
In a case where an employee is absent on hitcher regular scheduled shift before
or his/her first regular scheduled shift after such holiday and vacation and such absence £ excused, payment forthe holiday maybe made upon a recommendation as outlined in Section 7,04, Subjectto the above, an employee vJno is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor’s certificate and limited to a thirty day period exclusive of Saturday and Sunday, which periodlndudes such designated holiday, shall receive holiday pay for a
20
holidaythat occurs either during his/her regularvacation or on the day before or the day sifter his/her regularvacation period. There shall be deducted from such pay any paymentswhich the employee receives as the result of such illness.
7.07	An employeewho is laid off within a period of five working days immediately preceding a holiday, and who is actually at work on the day of layoff, shall be entitled to receive holiday pay for such holiday.
ARTICLE 8
VACATIONS
8.01	In order to bring everyoneto a common vacation year and for the purpose of computing the vacation entitlement and the vacation pay, the vacation year shall be the Calendar year.
8.02	An employeewith less than one year of continuous service as of December31 of the previous calendaryear shall be granted In the current year a vacation of one-half day for edch complete month he/she has worked during the previous cSleftdar year, since the last date of hiring and he/she shall receive as vacation pay 2% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year since the last date of hiring.
An employeewho completes one year of continuous service during the current year shall be granted in the current year a second week of vacation on his/her cdmpletlbh of o m year of continuous service in addition to the vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service, and will receiveas vacation pay for that second week of vacation 2% of his/her earnings in the previous calendaryear.
8.03	An employee with one year or more but less than five years of continuous
service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall begranted infhe
current year two weds of vacation and he/she shall receive as vacation pay 4% of his/her earnings In the previous calendaryear since the last date of hiring.
8.04	(1) An employeewith five years or more of continuous service as of Dec. 31
of the previous calendaryear shall be granted in the current year three weeks of vacation and he/she shall receive as vacation pay 6% of his/her earnings in the previous calendaryear since the last date of hiring.
(2) An employeewho completesflve years of continuous service during the curfent year shall be granted in the current year a third week of vacation on his/her completion of five years of continuous service in addition to the vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service and Will receive as vacation pay for that third week cf vacation 2% of his/her earnings In the previous calendaryear.
21
(3)	An employee with twelve years or more of continuous service as of December31 of th§ previouscalendaryear shall be granted inthe current year four weeks of vacation and will receive as vacation pay 8% of hidher earnings inthe previouscalendaryear.
(4)	An employee who completes twelve years of continuous service during the currentyear shall be granted in the current year a fourth week of vacation on his/her completion of twelve years of continuous service in addition to the vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service and will receive as vacation pay for that fourth week of vacation 2% of his/her earningsinthe previouscalendaryear.
(5)	An employee with twenty years or more of continuous service as of December31 of the previouscalendaryear shall be granted inthe current year five weeks of vacation and will receive as vacation pay 10% of his/her earnings in the previous calendaryear.
(6)	An employee who completes twenty years of continuous service during the currentyear shall be granted in the currentyear a fifth week of vacation on his/her completion of twentyyears of continuous service in addition to the vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service and will receive as vacation pay for that fifth week of vacation 2% of hidher earnings in the previouscalendaryear.
(7)	An employee with twenty-five years or more of continuous service as of December31 of the previouscalendaryear shall be granted in ,th$ current year six weeks of vacation andwill receive as vacation pay12% of his/her earnings in the previous calendaryear.
(8)	An employee who completes twenty-five years of continuous service during the currentyear shall be granted in the currentyear a sixth week of vacation on his/her completion of twenty-five years of continuous service in addition to the vacetion he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service and will receive as vacation pay for that sixth week of vacation 2% of his/her earnings inthe previouscalendaryear.
(9)	An employee with twenty-five years or more of continuous service has the option to eithertake the time off or work the sixth week of vacation. Scheduling of vacation will remain as per Section 8.05.
(10)	An employee working an 8 hourshiftschedulemustkeepone (l\$eekof vacation for shutdown. All other vacation can be taken one (1) day at a time (following usual company policy). The employee who has booked his/her vacation for full weeks will have preference over thepne day at a time vacation.
22
8.05	Vacations may be taken at any time during the calendar year, at such time as may be most convenient to the Employer, but every effort shall be made to schedule vacations at times suitable to the employees.
8.06	]h computing the actual earnings for vacation pay, the following items shall be
Included: actual wages earned (including bonuses arid Overtime payment), vacation pay for the preceding year, Workers' Compensation payments for lost tlme and Weekly Indemnity payments paid under the Health & Life Insurance Agreement.	'■
8.07	When an employee has been unable to work during a portion of the preceding calendar year owing to sickness or injury not covered by the Workers' Compensation Act, and for this reason only the vacation pay is less than the minimum mentioned below, the vacation pay shall be Increased tci a minimum of $240.00 per week, provided that said employee must have worked during some portion of the pfecedlhg calendar year and have resumed his/her hdrmal duties not less than three months before vacation is granted.
8.06	An employee with one year of continuous service or more, who leaves the employ of the Employer for any reason will receive the appropriate amount of vacation pay to which he/she is entitled under the provisions of this Article. This shall include vacation pay calculated on his/her earnings during the previous calendar year and the current calendar year to his/her date of separation, less any monies which he/she shall have received In the form of vacation pay with respect to these periods.
An employee with less than one year of continuous service, who leaves the employ of the Employer for any reason will receive as vacation pay, four percent
of his/her earnings since his/her last date of hiringlesS any monieswhich he/she shall have received In the form of vacation pay with respectto his/her period of employment.
ARTICLE 9
UNION SECURITY
1.01	(a) Any employee who is a member of the Union in good standing on the
effective date of this Agreement shall maintain his/her membership in the Union as a condition of his/her continued employment fqr the duration of this Collective Agreement to the extent of paying Union dues, in accordance with the constitution of the U.S.W.A. as determined by the Local Union and uniformly required of all members of the Union as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership therein.
(b)	Any employee in the bargaining unit who is not a member of the Union shall become a member of the Union on the effective date of this
.	Agreement as a condition of his/her continued employment and shall
maintain his/her membership on the same terms and to the same extent as providedinsubsection9,01 (a).
23
(c)	Any person hired on or after the effective date of this Agreement or
transferred therein after such effective date shall make application for Union membership and shall as a condition of his/her continued employment maintain his/her Union membership on the same terms and to the same extent as providedln subsection 9,01 (a).
(d)	All present employees and all new employees Including employees transferred into the bargaining unit shall have their membership dues deducted from their earnings by signing the dues authorization and deduction form a5 providedin Section9,02,
9,02	(a)	The Employerwill deduct the authoriZOd Union dues and assessments
from the third pay received in each month of each employeefrom whom the Payroll Departmenthas received, or may receive duringthe life of this ' Agreement, a dues authorization and deduction form In the following form:
Date.........20..
"Effective as of this date, I hereby authorize Goodyear Canada Inc, to deduct from wages due me current monthly Union dues and any unpaid regular montNy dues, initiationfee, rejoiningfee (If any) and general assessmentwhich am established by Local Union 834L and to be deducted in accordance with the Collective Agreement, the amount of which deductions shall have been notified by the Uniontothe Employerfrom time to time. Said dues to be remitted bythe Employer to the U.S.W.A. This assignment and authorizationshall be Irrevocable in accordancewith the provisions of Article 9 of the Collective Agreement between the Union and the Employer and I acknowledge that I understandthe provisions of Article 9 thereof,
Signature............................
Street Address...........................
Town...................
Telephone Number.......
Clock Card Number...... Department Number,
<b) If there are insufficientmonles In the third pay In any calendar month to " ‘ ' enablethe Employerto deductall ofthe Union dues for such month, the deduction shell be madefromthe next succeeding pay to which the employee Is entitled.
(c)	All authorizations for Union dues are to be executed in triplicate bythe employee concerned. One copy is to be retained bythe employeewho executed the authorization, one copy Is to be given to the Treasurer of Local 834L, and the third copy is to be retained by the Employer,
9.03	The Employer, when remitting to the Treasurer of Local 634L the Union dues deducted as herein provided, will furnish the Union with a list ofthe names and clockcard numbers of employees, classified as follows:
(1)	Employeesfrom whose pay deductions have been made, and the amount of such deductions.
(2)	Employeesfrom whose pay no deductions have been made, and the reason therefore.
(3)	Employeeswho are no longer employees ofthe Employer,
(4)	A completed check-off certificationform supplied bythe Union.
9.04	The assignmentsand authorizations once executed shall be Irrevocable forthe duration of this Collective Agreement or any renewal thereof, provided that if the termination of this Agreement or any renewal thereof is followed bythe execution of a new Agreement, these assignments and authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of such new Agreement.
9.05	The Union shall Indemnify and save the Employer harmlessfrom any claims, suits, judgements, attachments and from any otherform of liability as a result a the Employermaking any deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments, and the Union will make refunds directly to all employees from whom a wrongful deduction was made.
ARTICLE 10
GRIEVANCEAND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
10.01	Itisthe mutual desire ofthe parties hereto that complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and any dispute or complaint between the
employee and the Employer shall be dealt wrth as provided hereunder.
10.02	An employee who has a complaint may discuss it either personally or through the Intervention of his/her steward wtth his/her Immediate supervisor,
10.03	ifsuch complaint Snot settled to the satisfaction ofthe employee concerned,
such complaint shall be considered to be a grievance and subject to the following steps ofthe Grievance Procedure.	-
Step I
The grievance may be discussed bythe steward and/or a Union representative with the supervisor ofthe departmentln which the grievance originated. A verbal decision will be rendered bythe Supervisor within a period of one day, if possible.
Stop II
25
If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step I of this procedure, the grievance shall be reduced to writing and maybe discussed by the Steward and/or a Union representative with the ProductionManager/Business Centre Manager and the IndustrialRelationsManagerofthe Employerwithin a period of not more than five normal working days following a decision at Step 1, A decision will be rendered in writing bythese parties within a period of three normal working days if possible.
Step III
if no satisfactory solution Is reached at Step II of this procedure, the grievance may be discussed by the Grievance Committee of the Union and representatives of the Employer designatedfor this purpose, including the IndustrialRelations Manager, within a period of not more than five normal working days following a decision at Step II ofthis procedure. A decisionwill be furnished in writing by the Industrial Relations Managerto the President of the Union not laterthan five normal working days following the commencement of the discussion in Step 111 if possible.
Step IV
Ifno satisfactory solution Is reached at Step III ofthis procedure, the grievance may be discussed bythe Grievance Committee of the Union and a representative of the International Union and representativesofthe Employer designated for this purpose, including the Plant Manager, provided that, within a period of not more than five normal working days after receipt by the Union of the decision in Step III, it notifies the Employerof its desire to proceedto Step IV, Such meetingwlll be heldwithin ten normalworking days. The Plant Manager or his/her designated representativeshall renderhls/her decisionwithin five normal working days from date ofthis meeting.
Step V
Ifthe grievance has not been settled at Step 1V and if the grievance is one which concerns the application, administration, interpretation or an alleged violation of the Agreement, either party may refer such grievance to a Board of Arbitration by delivering to the other party in writing within thirty-five days of the receiptof the decision in Step 1V a statement of intentionto referthe grievance to a Board of Arbitration.
NOTE:	Wherever working days is referred to in Article 10 it refers to the
. employee's normal work schedule.
10.04	it is agreed that the aggrieved employee shall be at liberty and may be required by either party to appear in person at any step of the procedure set forth above.
26
10.05	(1) in all cases of arbitration a single arbitrator will be substituted for a Board
of Arbitration provided in this Article 10 unless the Union and Employer mutually agree to proceed by means of a Board of Arbitration.
(2) In all cases of substitution of a single arbitrator for a Board of Arbitration as outlined in subsection (1) of Section 10,05 all other applicable provisionsof Article 10 will continue to apply so far as they are relevant.
10.06	Each party will, within five normalworkingdaysofthe notice referredto in Step V, nominate a person to represent it on the Board of Arbitration and notify the other party of the name of such person; the two persons so nominated will forthwith appoint a third person to act as Chairman of the Board of Arbitration. If they are unable to agree upon a Chairman within 48 hours after receipt of notice of their appointmentthey will jointly requestthe Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to appoint a Chairman.
10.07	Such Chairman, togetherwith the two nomineesabove, shall constitutethe Boardof Arbitration, andthey shall meetpromptly to hear and considerthe grievancewith all reasonabledispatch. The decision ofthe majorityofthe Board made in accordance with the provisionsof this Agreement shall be final and binding on the Employer, the Union andthe employee or employees concerned,
10.08	Each of the parties will bearthe expense ofthe arbitrator nominated by it; the parties will jointly bearthe expense ofthe Chairman ofthe Board.
10.09	The Boardof Arbitration shall, wherever possible, render its decision within thirty days ofthe conclusion ofthe hearingofthe dispute; provided that failure of the Board to render its decision within the time limit specified shall not deprive it ofjurisdiction or vitiate any award that may be made.
10.10	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any powerto alter or change any ofthe provisionsof this Collective Agreement or to substitute any new provisionsfor any exlstihg provisionsorto give any decision inconsistentwith the terms and provisionsof this Collective Agreement.
^ 10.11 Any orall ofthetimelimitssetforthabovemaybeextendedby mutual agreement In writing.
I DISCHARGE CASES
10.12 An employeewith seniority who claimsto have been discharged or suspended unjustly may file a claim in writing with the industrial Relations Managerwithin five normal working days of ceasingto work, stating thathe/she has been unjustly discharged or suspended. Noemployeewill be disciplinedor discharged without a Union representative present at the time the discipline is being meted out.
w«ise8 shall be handled at Step III of the g.
„.iee normal working days of the receiptoftheclaimfroi.. has been discharged or suspended. Ifno satisfactory solution 6.^ isaitofthe application of Steps III andIV of the grievance procedure, trie dispute shall be subjectto arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 10.
10.14	If it Is decided that the employee was unjustly discharged or suspended he/sbe shall be reinstated, andhe/she shall be compensated at his/her regular rate of pay for time lost, subjectto the provisionsherelnafter provided.
10.15 The Board of Arbitration shall have the right to increase or decrease the penalty if they feel the circumstancesjustlfy such action, and shall have authority to determine the amount of pay, f any, the employee Isto receivefor the period of his/her discharge or suspension if ha/she Is subsequently reinstated.
In calculating the amount of pay the employee Is to receive if reinstated, the Board of Arbitration shall deduct therefrom any monies earned by die employeefrom other employment and any Unemployment insurance benefits received by the employee during the period of his/her suspension or discharge and retained by him/her,
10.16	(1) An employeewill beglven acopyof any notationconcemlng his/her
misconductor inefficiency at the time its placed in his/her personal record. A copy of every notation will be forwarded to the President of the Union by the industrial Relations Manager of the Employer,
(2)	Notations not repeated within a one year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
(3)	Notations reporting offences involving violation of the no-strike provisions in the Agreement not repeated within a three year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
ARTICLE 11 MISCELLANEOUS
11.01	The Employeragrees topermitthe Unionto postnotices of meetings and o<her Union businessor affaire on the bulletin board in the factory provided tor such purposes; It Is agreed, however, that such notices shall be subjectto approval by the Industrial Relations Manager.
11.02	A Bargaining Committee consisting of four members, all of whom shall be regular employees of the Employer, shall be selected by the employees who are members of the Union, in a manner determined by the Union. The Employershall be informed by the Union, In writing, of the personnel of the
28
Committee and of any changes which may occur from time to time.
11.03	The Union shall have the right to select a minimum of two stewards per shift and one steward forthe Mechanical Service Section, however, there shall not be more than one stewardfor every ten employeeson the Seniority List.
A list of stewards shall be submitted to the Employerln writing by the local Union before the Employer is required to recognize such appointments.
11.04	Any notice to be given by one party to the other shall be addressed as follows:
Tothe Union:	President, Local834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
To the Company: Manager, IndustrialRelations.
Goodyear Canada Inc.,
Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
11.05	No personwho is not included in the bargaining unit shall perform any part of the work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit; however, this provision will not prohibit Instructions, the training of new employees, supervision or salaried trainees or the handling of emergency situations,
11.06	(1) it Is the renewed and continuing intent of the Company to work with the Union and with the United Steelworkers of America, to provideasafe and healthy working environmentatthe Collingwood Plant.
We commit to meet with the Health & Safety Committee to review any safety concerns and to implement measuresto preventfuture accldents/lnjurles,
(2) The Employer wl provide reasonable protective devices and other
equipment necessary to protect employees from injury and sickness, The Union agrees to cooperate with the Employerln the use of these devices and Inthe elimination of Industrial accidents.
(3)	A Plant Health & Safety Committee shall be maintained as presently
constituted, consisting of not more than four members representingthe
Employer and not more than four members representing local Union. The function of the committee is to facilitate the promotion of safe work practices and accident prevention in the plant.
(4)	The committee shall meet not less than once per month in orderto discusssafety problems. The Committee’s function will Includea monthly tour of a section of the factory to observe and report on unsafe conditions or procedures. The committeewill make recommendationsconcemlng safety in the factory with the status of any recommendation made to be
<	29
reviewed at each meeting. The committee should periodically verify that adopted recommendationsare beingcomplled with.
**
(5)	The Committeewlll be provided, upon request, with known Information on toxic materialsbeing used inthe plant operations.. Employeesusingtoxic materialsshould be familiarized with safe handling of same.
(6)	One committee member representingthe Employerandone member representing the local Union shall be advised as soon as possible following any serious injury in the plant for the purpose of investigation of the accident and to help determine the cause of injury and suggest preventive measures.
(7)	Each employee shall use reasonable care for the cleanliness of his machine and the immediate working area.
11.07	The lettersof understandingnumberl through30, the interimWage increase provisions, the ContinuousQperatlon Agreement andthe CompressedWork Schedule, the Pension Pian and Severance Award Agreement, the Health and Life insuranceAgreement end the lettersof understanding numbered 1 through 8, andthe understandingofthe Dental Pian are attached hereto, and form partof this agreement.
ARTICLE 12
DURATION OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
12.01	Save as to the Pension Plan and Severance AwardAgreementandthe Health and Life insuranceAgreement, this Collective Agreement constitutes theentire one between the Employerandthe Union; it shall remain in force from the 27th day of April, 2002 to the 27th day of April 2005, and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives to the other party notice in writing of cancellation or of proposeisfor revision within a periodof notless than two months or more than three months prior to the anniversary date,
12.02 If either party gives to the other a notice of cancellation in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.01, this Collective Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice.
12.03	Neither party gives to the other a notice of proposals for revision in accordance ' with the provisions of Section 12.01, the parties shall meetto considerthe
proposed revisions within fifteen days of the date of delivery of such notice, if no agreement on the proposed revisions is reached by midnight of April 27, 2005, or by midnightof any other subsequent anniversary date, as the case may be, this Collective Agreement shall be continued in operation for a period not exceeding one year less one day until a new Agreement is reached or until the procedure contemplated bySection74 ofthe Labour Relations Act, 1992 has been completed.
TIES hereto have executed thla Agreement 2003.
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. COLLINGWOOD FACTORY
«J. Thompson
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL UNION 834L

D. Ward
J. Chamelot, Int. Rep.
APPENDIX “A’
31
Attached to and forming part of the Collective Labour Agreement between Goodyear Canada Inc., Collingwood Factory, Collingwood, Ontario and the United Steelworkers of America terminating on April 27,2005.
DEPARTMENT
STORES
SHIPPING
CEMENT HOUSE SLITTER
PLASTIC EXTRUDER TUBER
CROSSHEADS
TEXTILE SPIRAL/T EXTILE BARRIER LINE
EFFECTIVE
JOB CLASIFICATION	APRIL 27/02
StoremanAvoman	16,25
Shipping 4 Warehouse Pod	16,25
Receiving 6/01 Shipping Clerk	16,25
Cement House	16,05
FrictionSlltlar	16,05
Operator	16.35
Operator (one man/woman operation)	16,55
Operator (two man/woman operation)	16,25
2™ man/woman	16,00
Operator	16,80
2m man/woman	16,00
Service extruders	16,10
Operator	16,80
Cord Rewind	15,80
DIVISIONS" WRAPPER	Operator
16,25
CURVED RAD (Dept.#1)
Cure 4 Trim Operator Utility A Utility B
Trim Saws Non-Relief
16,35
16,00
16,15
15.90
(Dept. #2)	Synchronous Manufacturing
Big Ben Mandrel Shop
16.35
16.35 17,30
(Dept. #3)	Pack Service
Inspect 4 Pack Process Auditor Returnable Cartons
16,00
16,00
16,00
16,00
FINAL END
Foster Alien Culler Mandrel Prep Service Ford Assembly
16.00
16.00
16.00
16.00
BLOW/REEL '	Operator
16.15
VERTICAL/WARDWELL BROS	Operator
16.20
32
KNITTERS	Operator	18.0S
HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS	Operator	.16.25
LABOUR POOL	Labour Pool	14.37
BAPP FACILITATOR	BAPP Facilitator	17.25
LEAD TRAINER	Lead Trainer	17.10
PRODUCTION CO-ORDINATOR	Production Co-ordinator	17.45
WASTE TECHNICIAN	Wads Technician	17.45
(1)	Rates effective April 27,2002 Include all previous C.O.L.A. adjustments as well as $0.25 general increase.
(2)	These rateswlll be increased as Mows:
Effective April 27,2003	25 cents general wage Increase
Effective April 25,2004	25 cents general wage increase
All other C.O.L.A, adjustments generatedthrough the lifetime of this agreementwlll be added to these ratesas they take effect.
All LeadHandsselectedbythe Employer in the Hose Manufacturing Section will receive 20$ perhour above the maximum rate In their department. (Rate does not apply to LabourTrainer or Tearn Leader Rate).
All LabourTrainers selected by the Employerln the Hose Manufacturing Section will does not apply to Lead V\fend or Tearn Leader Rate).
AIITeam Leaders selected bythe Employerlnthe Hose Manufacturing Section will receive 75$ per hourabovethe maximum rate In their department. (Rate does not apply to Lead Hand or LabourTrainer Rate).
New employees in the Hose Manufacturing Section will be hired at a rate of $13.36 per hour, and will be paid that, rate for the first 4 months of active employment. Beginning the fifth (59') month, and continuing through the twelfth (12*’) month of employment, such employees will be paid at a rate of $14.37 perhour. These rateswill beincreased bythe amounts of any future General Wage Increase and/or ttost of Living Adjustments during the life of this agreement.
•FFECTIVE APRIL 27. 2002
MECHANICAL SERVICE SECTION
9*
■leotriclan )ther Trades ubrlcate & Oil
33
WITH TlpKET WITHOUT TICKET
21.00	17.45
20.85	17.30
16.75
til Lead Hands selected bythe Employerinthe Mechanical Service Section will receive 00 per hour above the maximum rate of theirtrade. (Rate does not apply to Labour rainer or Team Leader rates).
til LabourTrainers selected bythe Employerinthe Mechanical Service Section will /hen training receive3O0 per hour above the maximum rate in their department. (f^ate oes notapplyto Lead Hand orTeam Leader rates)
til Team Leaders selected bythe Employerinthe Mechanical Service Section will 3ceive 750 per hour above tine maximum rate in their department. (Rate does not pply to Lead Hand or LabourTrainer rates)
■FFECTIVE APRIL27, 2002 iTARTING RATES
IECHANICAL SFRVICF SECTION	WITH TICKET WITHOUT TICKET
■lectrician	20.11	16.61
)ther Trades	19.96	16.46
itudents	14.96
,n employeewill progressfromthe hiring-in-rate by 100 per hour each month, based n merit until the employee reachesthe maximum rate for his/her job or until qualified /hlchever comes first.
3) Rates effective April 27,2002 include$0.25 general increase, and previous C.O.L.A. adjustments.
I)	These will be increased as follows:
Effective April 27,2003	25 cents general wage increase
EffectiveApril 25, 2004	25 cents general wage increase
.II other C.O.L.A, increases generated through the lifetime of this agreementwill be dded to these rates as they take effect.
34
INTERIM WAGE INCREASES
1.	The amount of Interim i ncrease shall be calculated and re-calculatedas provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price index published by Statistics Canada (1986:100)and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
2.	First Year of Agreement:
I (a)	'The base for calculation"-the average C.P.I. for the months of February
2002,	March 2002 and April 2002.
(b)	The first adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period following July 15,2002. itwill reflectone cent (l<pfc>hourfor each full .096 points thatthe averageC.P.I, forthe months of April 2002, May2002, and June 2002 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period following Oct. 15,2002. Itwill reflect one cent (I Q)per hourfor each full .096 points that the average C.P.I. forthe months of July 2002, August 2002, and Sept. 2002 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period following Jan. 15,2003. Itwill reflectone cent (ICMr hourfor each full ,096 points thatthe averageC.P.I. forthe months of Oct. 2002, Nov. 2002, and Dec. 2002, exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period following April 15,2003. Itwill reflectone cent (IQ)perhourfor each full .096 points thatthe average C.P.I. forthe months of Jan. 2003, Feb. 2003, and March 2003, exceedsthe base for calculation.
3.	Second Year of Agreement:
I (a)	' The base for calculation"- the averageC.P.I. forthe months of February
2003,	March 2003 and April 2003.
(b) The first adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period following July 15,2003. Itwill reflectone cent (I Q)per hourfor each full .096 points thatthe average C.P.I. forthe months of April 2003, May2003, and June 2003 exceedsthe base for calculation.
(c)	A second'adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following Oct. 15,2003. Itwill reflectone cent(10) per hourfor each full .096 points that the averageC.P.I, forthe months of July 2003, August 2003, and Sept. 2003 exceedsthe base for calculation.
W) A third adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period following Jan. 15,2004. Itwill reflectone cent (IQ) per hourfor each full .096 points thatthe average C.P.I, forthe months of Oct. 2003, Nov. 2003, and Dec.
35
2003	exceeds tfte base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period
April 15, 2004. It will reflectone cent (I)) per hourfor each full .096 ports that the averageC.P.I. forthe months of Jan. 2004, Feb. 2004, andMarch 2004, exceedsthe base for calculation.
4,	Third Year of Agreement:
(a)	'The base for calculation" - the averageC.P.I, forthe months of February 2004, March 2004 and April 2004,
(b)	The first adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period fofcwfrg July 15, 2004. Itwill reflectone cent (10) per hourfor each full ,096 points that the average C.P.I. forthe months of April 2004, May 2004, and June
2004	exceedsthe base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period following Oct. 15, 2004, Itwill reflectone cent (10) per hour for each M ,096 pointsthatthe averageC.P.I. forthe months of July 2004, August
2004,	and Sept. 2004 exceedsthe base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period following Jan. 15, 2005, Itwill reflectone cent (1^) per hourfor each M ,096 ports that the average C.P.I, forthe months of Oct. 2004, Nov. 2004, and Dec, 2004 exceedsthe base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustmentwill be calculated and paid as of the pay period following April 15, 2005. Itwill reflectone cent (10) per hourfor each full .096 ports thatthe average C.P.I. forthe months of Jan. 2005, Feb. 2005, and March
2005,	exceedsthe base for calculation.
5.	The Interim increasewill be considered as earnings and will be includedwith other wage paymentson the employee's time card.
6.	Inthe event Statistics Canada does notissuethe appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustmentsto be calculated, any adjustment requiredwill be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt cf the Index.
7.	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shalt be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
8.	Continuation of the Interim adjustments is dependentupon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer’s Price Index calculated on the same basis and inthe same form as that published for February, 2002,
36
9.	Each adjustment specified in the interim Wage Increase Formula will replace the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety exceptthe fourth adjustment in the first year of the Agreementwill be carried overthroughoutthe second, and third years cf the Agreement, the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreementwill be carried over throughout the third year of the Agreement.
38
ARTICLE 4-Hour* Of Work
In reference to Section 4.01, as per Appendix "A" for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, the regular weekly schedule is an average of forty (40) hours, based on a thirty-two (32)hour and forty-eight (48) hourrotatlon, within a periodfrom8:00 a,m, Sunday to 8:00 am Sunday. (In any week In which a designated holiday occur the weekly hours may vary.)
OVERTIME HOURS
In reference to Section 4.02, "OvertimeWork" means all time worked in excess of an employee's regular eight (8) hour or twelve (12) hour shift schedule.
ARTICLE 5- Rates of Pay
In reference to Section 5.03, all overtimework shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half, except the period from midnight Saturday to midnight Sunday, when double tare will be paid.
SHIFT PREMIUM
In reference to Section 5.08, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, shift premium paymentshall be granted as follows:
Forall hoursworked between4:00 p,m, and 12:00 am. - $.35 per hour.
For all hoursworked between 12:00 am and 8:00 a.m, -$.40 per hour.
JURY DUTY
In reference to Section 5.10, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, an employee who Is required to serve onajuryorasa witness subpoenaed by the Crown shall be paidthe difference between the amount paid for such service and his/her average hourly earnings for time lost from his/her regularly scheduled work shift of twelve (12) hours by reason of such service.
BEREAVEMENT
In reference to Section 5.11, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, an employeewill be compensated at his/her average hourly earningsfor time lost by him/her upon his/her regular work schedule by reason of such absence, for a maximum of thirty-six (36)hoursfor each such death or funeral for bereavementas referredto m Paragraph 1 of Article 5.11.
All other claims for bereavementwill be compensated as referredto In Paragraph^ of Article 5.11.
39
ARTICLE 6-Job Postings
In reference to Section 6.21, when an operatlon(s) vacancy occurs in a section or on an operationonthe6 2/3 day work schedule, the vacancy will be posted in the section for seventy-two hours (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or holidays),
ARTICLE 7 .Designated Holidays
in reference to Section 7.01, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, a holiday is deemed to be for a twenty-four (24) hourperiodfrom 12:00 a.m. on the day immediatelypriorto the holidayto 12:00 am. the day of the holiday, except Good Friday, which will beobservedforatwenty-four(24) hourperiodfrom 8:00 am. the day of the holidayto 8:00 a.m. the day following the holiday,
In referenceto Section 7.02, subjectto other provisions of this Article 7, an employee will be paid an amount equal to 12 hours at a straight time rate of pay if the holiday occurs on his or her regularly scheduled work day. ifthe holiday occurs on a regularly scheduled day off, the employeewill be paid an amount equal to 8 hours at a straight time rate of pay exceptfor Statutory holidays in which case the employee would be paid an amount equal to 12 hours at a straighttime rate of pay.
ARTICLE 8 ■ Vacations
Forvacation purposes, the vacation week is deemedto beginasof8:00 am. Sunday.
One Day At A Time Vacations
1.	Employees working on a 12 hour shift schedule must keep one (1) week of vacation for shutdown. All other vacation can be taken one (1) day at a time (following usual company policy). The employee who has booked his/her vacation
for full weeks will have preference over the one day at a time vacation.
2.	The schedulingof a vacation one or two days at a time must be approved by the BusinessCentre Manager, and not in conflict with production requirements, and be requested at least 48 hours in advance. The advance requirement may be waived at management discretion, based on circumstances.
3.	Vacation day(s) granted or denied will beindicatedonfe form and a copy will be given to the employee. Vacations booked for a full week will take priority over vacations requested one (1) day at a time.
r*
40
^NTEEREPIsASEMgMI
OVERTIME POLICY *'
It isnotthe policy of the Company to schedule an employeeto work for more than twelve (12) consecutive hoyrs at one time, except in emergency situations.
OVERTIME COVERAGE
As the implementation of the CompressedWork Schedule may present problemsin filling vacancies caused by absences and other operating requirements, it is, therefore, necessaryto establish a procedure so that employees who are scheduled off will be available to work overtime.
Overtime record of all employees who are available to work overtime, will continue to be maintained and overtime will be allocated and distributed based on departmental practices.
However, ifthe number of qualified employees, who have so made themselves available for overtime coverage, Is not suffcient to ensure adequate coverage, ajoint committee will meetto review the problemand agree to an alternate procedure.
Ifthere continuesto be a problemwith providing adequate overtime coverage, the	^
Company will designate employeesto be available for overtime coverage on their scheduled days off or terminate the schedule based on the terms of this Agreement.
ADVANCE NOTICE:
When an employee has reason to be absent on his/her next regularly scheduled shift, advance notice must be given no laterthan two (2) hours before the start of that shift, except In emergency situations.
RELIEF
An employee, who has not been relieved by the subsequent shift will remain on the job until other provisionscan be made, but limitedto atwo (2) hour period, while alternate arrangements are made.	'
12,HOUR SHIFTS.
D - Day Shift •
N - Night Shift, (A)- Afternoon Shift (N) - Night Shift ,
41
,8:00 a.m, to 8:00 p.m.
. 8:00 p,m. to 8:00 a.m. 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. 12;00a.m. to 8:00 a.m.
EMPLOYEES WORKS-OFF: 2-2. 3-2, 2-3 Rotation
SMTWTFS SMTWTFS SMTWTFS SMTWTFS
CREW NO.1	(N)	DD	DD	D D (A)	NN
CREW NO.2	,(A)	NN	NN	N N (N)	D D
CREWNO.3	DD	D D (A)	DD	N N
CREWNO.4	NN	N N (N)	NN	DD
NN NN 0 D . DD N N (N) N N , DD(A) DD
CREW PREMIUMS #1 - $.90 per hour worked v #2 - $.90 per hour worked #3 - $.90 per hour worked #4- $.90 per hour worked
APPENDIX TO COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT 6 2/3 DAY. FOUR (4) CREW WORK SCHEDULE
This Agreement is made and entered into as of the 27 day of April, 2002 between Goodyear Canada Inc., with respect tp all employees at Collingwood located at 101 Mountain Road, hereinafter referred to as the "Employer" and Local Union 834L of the United Steelworkers of America, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
42
1 id understood and agreed that in orderto makefulluseofthe Colllngwood Plant, the Employer may schedule any operatlon(s), as required on a e 2/3 day, four (4) crew schedule, as per Attachment A
When It becomes necessary for the Employer to schedule one or more of the plant's operations on the 6 2/3 day work schedule a fourth crew will be instituted and a shift schedule will be adopted which would schedule each employee to work a regular schedule of forty hours per week.
In orderto attain equitable and affective practices for initial transition to the scheduling of operations on to the 6 2/3 day schedule, ajoint committee made up of Bargaining Units of the Local Union and the Employerwill be established. The function of this committee will be to review and recommend practices for the transferof personnel to the operations affected in keeping with the principles established in Article 6 of the Collective Labour Agreement and to attempt to resolve problems as they arise in relationto the implementationof the 6 2/3 day work schedule.
ATTACHMENTA
THE 6 2/3 DAY. FOUR (41 CREWWORK SCHEDULE
D- DAY SHIFT A- AFTERNOON SHIFT N - NIGHT SHIFT 28 DAY CYCLE SHIFT ROTATION: DAYS - NIGHTS - AFTERNOONS EMPLOYEESWORKS-OFF: 7-1, 3-1, 3-2, 7-4
CREW NO.1 CREW NO.2 CREW NO.3 CREW NO,4
MTWTFSS MTWTFSS MTWTFSS MTWTFS S DDD NNNNNNN	A A A A A A A DDD
AA DDD DDD NNNNNNN ■ AAAAA A A A A A A A DDD DDD NNNNNNN NNNNN	AAAAAAA DDD DDD NN
CRFWPRFMIUMS- #1 - $.90 per hourworked #2 • $.90 per hourworked #3 - $.90 per hourworked #4 - $.90 per hourworked
43
OVERTIME PROVISIONS:
1st Scheduled day off 2nd Scheduled day of 3rd Scheduled day off 4th Scheduled day off
time and one-half double time time and one-half double time
ATTACHMENT A
The Employer undertakesto provide the Local Union with a minimum notification of 1 month priorto the scheduling of the 6-2/3 day schedule.
The Employer undertakesto assure the continuation of the schedule for a minimum period of three months. It is understood however, that this will notpreventthe Employer from adjusting manning counts to maintain an efficient operation.
Anyone removedfrom the 6-2/3 schedule due to the manning count adjustments will not be reassignedto such schedule until a further 30 day notice period has been observed, unlessthe employee agrees to waive the notice period.
The Employer undertakesto provide the Local Union with a minimum notificationof 1 month priorto the discontinuation of the 6-2/3 day schedule whenever possible. It Is understood that in some situations advance notice will not be possible.
The terms and conditions of the Collective Labour Agreementwlll apply to all employees who are scheduled on the 6 2/3 day work schedule with the following exceptions:
1.	In reference to Section 4.01, as per Attachment A for employees on the 6 2/3 day work schedule, the regularweekly schedule Isa five day, 40 hourweekwithin a period from the start of the nightshtft Mondayto the end of the afternoon shift Sunday.
2.	The provision under Section 5.03 will notapplyto employees on the 6 2/3 day
work schedule.	"
3.	In reference to Section 6,21, when a newoperatlon(s) vacancy occurs in a section or on an operation on the 6 H3day work schedule, the-vacancy will be posted in the section for seventy-two hours (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or holidays).
44
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
LETTER #1
April 27,2002,
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sin
During recent negotiations, both the Union and the Company have agreed that the following disciplinary procedure constitutes a very importantstep in the control and eventual eradication of drug-related problems In our plant, and that this action is taken in the best possible interest of all concerned.
The following are considered to be serious breachesof Plant Rules and Regulations, and offenders will be subject to discipline up to and Including dismissal,
Reporting to work or being at work:
1)	impaired by drugs.
2)	Taking into the body (by whatever means l.e, orally, injection, sniffing, rubbing, etc.) any drug that might Impair one's ability to perform his/her duties and create a hazardto others.
3)	Possessing drugs on Company premises, specifically drugs prohibited under the NarcoticControl Act for schedules "G" and"H" ofthe Food and DrugAct.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC,
David P,Allman Industrial Relations Manager.
45
LETTER #2
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Colllngwood, Ontario
L9Y3Z9
April 27, 2002
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
As we understood in recent negotiations, employees required bythe Employerto perform any offollowing operations will be allowed to take a twenty minute period, prior to the end of their regular shift, in orderto wash up, These operations are: cleanout curve rad pits, horizontal braiders overhaul, when strippingdecks is required.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial RelationsManger.
46
LETTER #3
April 27, 2002,
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations concerning operations previously performed by the Mechanical Service Section.
1) The followingjobs are the responsibility of the machine operators:
changes; (broken and changeover).
HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS:	Gear changes (all); Tension changes;
Carrier changes, spring changes (broken).
CROSSHEADS:
Change Ferris belts; Change in-line cutter knives.
VERTICAL BRAIDERS:
Gear changes (all); Tension changes; Carrier
KNITTERS:
Needle changes; Gear changes.
CURVE RAD:
PRINTERS, CUTTERS:
Ferris belts; Change blades if necessary.
Team Leader and Utility to change saw blades: Mandrels on and off.
TEXTILE SPIRAL:
Ferris belts; Change cutter blades.
47
2)	The following jobs are the responsibility of the MechanicalSetvIce
Section employees:
TUBERS:	Change or adjust scraper plates and feed
rollers.
CROSSHEADS:	Change or adjust scraper plates and feed
rollers.
HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS:	Complete changeovers,
Yours very truly,
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
48
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 329
LETTER#4
April 27,2002,
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
The following is an understanding reached between the Union andthe Company at recent negotiations concerning the operations previously done by Mechanical Service Section employees which are now being performed by Hose Manufacturing employees.
If during the term of this agreementthe number of employees in the Mechanical Service Section drops to seventeen (17), the following operations will be returned to the Mechanical Service Section. For this provision only, electricians shall not be Included,
VERTICAL BRAIDERS:	Gearchanges, if puller required;
complete changeovers.
HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS	Gear changes, if puller required.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
IndustrialRelatlons Manager.
LETTER#5
49
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 329
April 27, 2002
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
The following will confirm the Company policy with respect to the scheduling of vacations:
While It remains that the scheduling of vacations Is subject to approval by the Employer, the opportunity to schedule vacation will first be given to the employee with the most factory seniority, inthe department concerned, andwill carry on from there In declining order of seniority.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
so
LETTER##
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
1.01 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 329
April 27, 2002,
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sin
During recent negotiations the Company has undertaken the following pertainingto a plantvacation shutdown:
Ifthe Company decision is to schedulea two week plantvacation shutdown, itwlll be scheduled during the months of July or August and such decision would be communicatedtothe employees priorto February14 of the year whenever possible.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman, IndustrialRelatlons Manager.
LETTER #7
51
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This will confirm the Company policy with respect to employees who are absent from work by reason of illness and are accumulating seniority under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement.
The Company will establish a system wherein it will notify such employees and the secretary of the Local Union 834L at least thirty days in advance of the date on which the accumulation of seniority expires. This does not relieve the employee of the responsibility of making application for any benefitsto which he/she is entitled underthe terms of the various Agreements between the Company and the Union and which benefits are dependent upon the employee accumulating seniority In orderto qualify for a benefit.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTERH8
52
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 329
April 27, 2002.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
An employee who is absent from work because of bodily injury caused by accident or sickness and who has accumulated seniority and service in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.05 shall be entitled to retain such accumulated service and seniority together with his/her priorcredited seivfce and seniority as long as he/she remains disabled because of injury and is not able to return to work or to accept other employment. Ifhe/she should accept other employment during such absence he/she shall be deemed to have resigned.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
DavidP, Allman, IndustrialRelations Manager.
53
LETTER #9
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letterwill serveto confirm the understanding reached during the recent negotiationsconcerningthe status of students employed during the school vacation period. Itwill be understoodthat those studentshiredto perform and actually performingwork normally carried out by members of the Bargaining Unitwill be considered to be "employees" solely for the application of Articles ofthe present Collective Labour Agreement.
Should the student subsequently submit a successful applicationfor permanent employment, itwill also be understoodhe/she would be hired as a new employee and would have to successfully complete his/her probationary period, as outlined in Article 2.01 (d) ofthe C.L.A, and eligibility for benefits as outlined in Section3, paragraph^ a Health and Life InsuranceAgreement.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #10
54
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 ..Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27,2002.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
DearSir
This letter will serve to confirm the agreement reached between the Company and the Union in the course of recent negotiations concerning amendments to Company policy on Safety Shoes.
Effective April 27,2002 employees will be entitled to reimbursementofthe purchase cost of safety shoes, limitedto a maximum yearly allowance of $90.
Allowance will be paid only upon presentation of proof of purchase.
Allowance will not be paid to employees to whom safety footwear Is provided by the Company.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manger.
55
LETTERS 1
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002,
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkersof America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding the purchase and usage of coveralls.
The Company agrees to supply and launder coveralls for employees in the Engineering Division, Stores and Cement House.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman, _ Industrial Relations Manager.
56
LETTER#12
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
During the course of these recent negotiations, it was brought to the Company's attention that, In spite of assurance to the contrary given by various Company officials, several employees continue to believe that they are being taxed at a greater rate whenever they happen to have a vacation pay included with their regularweekly pay on the same pay cheque. As we promised, we have verified with our people in the Computer Systems department, and they have assured us that the payroll system is set up in a such a way that any vacation card going through will automatically trigger an adjustment, to ensure that the employeels not taxed based on a highertax bracket simply because his/her vacation pay has been added to his/her regular pay. We certainly hope this explanation Is satisfactory.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
57
LETTER#13
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y3Z9
April 27,2002.
President,
Local Union834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
As discussed during recent negotiations, the following Memorandum of Understanding concerningtransfers to the Mechanical Service Section will be applicable in the event that an employee is transferred to the Mechanical Service Section when he/she is not fully qualified.
In accordance with Section 6.21 of the Collective LabourAgreement an employee may transfertothe Mechanical Service Section only ifhe/she isqualifiedforajob on which vacancy exists in that section.
The following Is the outline of transfer proceduresthatwlll be followed when it Is deemed feasible by the company to consider transfer requests to an operation in the Mechanical Service Section by employees who are not qualified atthattime. This procedure does not alterthe existing intent and understanding outlined in Section 6.21 ofthe Collective LabourAgreement.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman.
Industrial Relations Manager.
58
1.	An employee who wishes to be considered for transfer to job vacancy in the Mechanical Service Section and who is not qualified at that time may file a written requestwith the indyetrial Relations Departmentin accordance with the provisions of Section6,21,
2.	If the decision ismadg by the Company to fill a vacancy in the Mechanical Service Section from within and no fully qualified employee has requested such atransfer, then selectionwill be made from transfers on file in accordance with paragraph (1) of Sections.21 based on ability and Previousexperienceasthe prime criteria. If these factors are equal among the applicants, then the employee who has the greatest factory seniority will be given the first consideration.
3.	The applicant must agree to participate and complete a skilled trades Apprenticeship Program established by the companywith the Ministry of Colleges and Universities before the transferwill be honoured.
4.	Ifthe employee should fall to qualify «* it is indicated that he/she will beunableto qualify during the apprenticeship program period, he/she will displace the employee with the least seniority in the unclassified group in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 6.21,
5.	Should a lay-offoccur in the Mechanical Service Section at a time when unqualified employees are assignedto the operation affected, the unqualified employeewill belaid off from the section before any fully qualified employee is affected.
6.	When an employeewho hastransferred In accordance with this memorandum has successfully completedthe Apprenticeship Program period, for seniority purposes with Mechanical Service Section, his/her section seniority will be counted as from the date of transfer to the Apprenticeship Program and in the event of lay-off from the Mechanical Service Section, Section seniority as determined above will apply.
7.	For all other purposesthe employeewho hastransferred In accordance with this memorandumwill retain his/her factory seniority.
8.	The maximum transfer rate will be the base rate of the operation from which the employee has transferred. The apprentice's rate will be reviewed every six months until the apprentice has successfully completedthe Apprenticeship Program, at which time he/she will receivethe skilled trades rate.
This Memorandumof Understandingdoes not negate any of the provisions of the
Collective LabourAgreementbutls a supplementto the Collective Labour Agreement
when applicable.
LETTER#14
59
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002,
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations
outlining the policy on how to handle overtime hours missed by an employee.
1.	The employeewill notify their Supervisorthey had been overlooked In error when overtime was being distributed.
2.	Ifthe Supervisor agrees, then the missed employeewill advise the Supervisor of the days he/she le available to work overtime overthe nextfive days to make up for the hours missed.
3.	Ifthe employee-advlses his/her Supervisor he/she is unavailableto workovertime during the nextfive days, thenthe overtime hours will be deducted at this time from the employee's refused hours.
4.	The Company will not offer missed overtime hours more than three times over this five day period.
5.	Ifovertimehoursmissedare not made upwithin the five day periodthenthe missed overtime hourswill be reduced from the employee's refused hours.
6.	An employee who has been missed two times in any 8 month period will receive payment for overtime missed.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
I
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
60
LETTER #1!
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y3Z9
April 27, 2002,
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
DearSIr:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during the recent negotiations concerning the recording of overtime.
All overtime hours either refused or acceptedwlll be recordedfor each employee. However, If an employee is requestedto work overtime In less than a four hour period priortothe overtime being worked, these hourswill not be recorded againstthe employee if they refuse.
Yours very truly,
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #16
61
. GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Colllngwood, Ontario
L9Y3Z9
April 27, 2002
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Colllngwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letterwill serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations concerning the clarification of the term "qualification", Article 2, Subsection2,01 (e). An employee shall become qualified through filling in for vacation, sickness, reliefor temporary assignments, providedthe employee can perform all the functions of the operationin acapable manner. Inthe eventof a layoff, these qualifications mayonly be used to prevent lay off from the plant. To clarify the Intentofthis letter, qualified and 'held" are Interchangeablefor purposesof lay-offs.
No employee can gain qualification on ajob while employees are on layoff or on lay off notice from thatjob.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
62
101
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
, Ontario
LETTER #17
April 27, 2002.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America, Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letterwill serve to confirmthe understanding reached during the recent negotiations concerning Article 6.22.
The classified and unclassified jobs listed below may be changed from time to time, providedthere is mutual agreement between the Union and the Employer.
DEPARTMENT
STORES
SHIPPING
CEMENT HOUSE SUTTER
PLASTIC EXTRUDER TUBER
CROSSHEADS
TEXTILE SPIRAL/ TEXTILE BARRIER LINE
DIV. "A" WRAPPER
CURVED RAD
FINAL END
UNCiABaEIEB CLASSIFIED
StoremanAvoman
Shipping 4 Warehouse Pool Recalving Mot Shipping Clerk
Cement House
Friction Slitter .
Operator
Operator
2ndman/woman
Operator 2nd man/woman Stockman/woman Service
Cord Rewind	Operator
Operator
PackServIce	Cure 4 Trim Operator	.
Trim Saws Non-Relief	Inspect4 Peck
Utility A 4 8
Synchronous Manufacturing Big Ben
Returnable Cartons
Mandrel Prep	Foster Allen Cutter
Service
FordAssembly
63
B5PARTMENT	Uti£L652tQjEB
BLOW/REEL
VERTICAL/WARDWELL BRAIDERS KNITTERS
HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS LABOUR POOL	Labour Pool
BAPP FACILITATOR LEAD TRAINER
PRODUCTIONCO-ORDINATOR WASTE TECHNICIAN PROCESS AUDITOR MANDREL SHOP
The Employerwill decide the classification category for any new jobs that are added to the above list
Yours veiy truly,
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
QLAS5IE1EB
Operator
Operator
operator
Operator
BAPP Facilitator Lead Trainer Production Co-ordinator Waste Technician Process Auditor Mandrel Shop
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
64
LETTER#18
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002,
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letterwill confirm the Company policywith respectto employeeswho are Involved in a work runoutpriorto Section 6.24 coming into affect.
When a work runout occurs in the plant for one day only in a one week period the senior employee on thejob and shift where the work runout occurred will remain on the job and the least seniority employees will be sent home.
If a work runout occurs more then once in a one week period then the hours of work will be distributed amongst all the employees involved in the work runout as closely as is feasible.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial RelationsManager.
65
LETTER #19
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
DearSir:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations that:
An employee who is in receipt of Weekly Indemnity payments or an employee who Is absent because of an occupational injury and Is in receipt of Workers' Compensation payments will be credited with accumulated seniority up to the date of a lay-off solely for the purposeof determining his/her position in the order of lay-off or In the order of recall. For any and all other purposes, seniority accumulated during absence from work will only be credited upon returnto active employment.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
66
LETTER #20
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002,
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sin
The follosving is an understanding reached betweenthe Company and the Union at
recent negotiations regardingTeam Leaders:
1.	Effective May 2nd, 1991 Team Leaderswill be appointed by the Company.
2.	Team Leaderswill be appointedfrom within the Team unless mutually agreed.
3_	Rate of pay shall be as per Appendix "A".
4.	An employee who has been appointed as a T earn Leader and is no longer required as, or ^disqualified as a Team Leaderwill return to the previous job position they held priorto appointment as a Team Leader.
5.	if cutbacks occur resulting in layoff the employeewill returntothejob which he/she previously performed and will find his/her rightful position as outlined in Article 6, Section 6.12,
6.	If a Team Leader should leave a Team and the Team Leader's position needsto be filled, then the position will be filled in accordance with itemT.
Yours very truly,
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
67	LETTERM1
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 27,2002.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letterwlll serve to confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union regardingfloating holidays as referred to in Section 7.02,
1.	Floating holidays will be scheduled to fail between Christmas and New Year's Day for the duration of this Collective Labour Agreement.
2.	The floaters are fixed as agreed unless legislation during the duration of this CollectiveAgreement provides foradditional designated holidays at which time we would mutually review any remainingfloater.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
68
LETTER #22
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27,2002.
President,
Local Union 834L,	,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letterwill sen/e to confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union regardingthe possibility of a future plant closing as itrelatesto bargaining unit employees.
The Company agrees to notify the Local and International Union at least six months prior to the cessation of production operations.
Following such notification, the Local and International Union will have the rightto discuss and explore with the Company any possible means of averting the closure.
If attempts to avertthe plantclosureare not successful, the Company and Union representativeswlll meet to negotiate the mannerinwhich the closure is carried out.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Davkj P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
69
LETTER#23
April 27,2002
GOODYEAR CANADA ING.
101 Mountain Road, Colllngwood, Ontario
L9Y 329
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Colllngwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
It is the Employer’s intentto postthe line-up by noon Thursday priorto the week to which the sohedule pertains. It is understood however that from time to time revisions maybe necessary.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
IndustrialRelations Manager.
U
LETTER#24
70
^ GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
'lOt'Mountaln Road, Coll logwood, Ontario
L9Y 329
April 27, 2002
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworker's of America,
Colllngwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm that the Company and Union mutually agreedto form a committee with representationfromthe Union, Management and medical advisors to formulate a policy and procedure for a modifiedwork program. Said programto comply with Worker’s Compensation and employment equity requirements.
Yours very truly,
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
71
LETTER #25
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Colllngwood, Ontario
L9Y3Z9
April 27, 2002,
President,
Local Union834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
It is the Employer’s intent to handle requests for evaluation in a timely fashion so as to provide a response to the Union within a 3-month period. It is understood howeverthat in some instances it may not be possibleto complete the evaluation in a 3-month period in which case the Employerwill provide a statusup-date on a regularbasls,
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER#26
72
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002,
President,
Local Union834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
itisthe Employer’s intentto computerizethe overtime distribution proceduresto ensure consistent and equitable distribution of overtime as per Section 4.01 (2)of the Collective LabourAgreement.
Accessibility to these records will be limited to production managementandthe Industrial Relations Managerto ensure the integrity of these files,
Yours very truly,
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
industrial Relations Manger.
73
LETTER #27
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood. Ontario
L9Y3Z9
April 27,2002.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America, Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
The Employer agrees to provide payroll deductions to enable employees the possibility of participating in a Group R.R.S.P.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manger.
74
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
lOt-Mountaln Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
LETTER #28
April 27,2002,
President,
Local 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America, Collingwood, Ontario.
pear Sin
RE: Miscellaneous Items
During the course of our recent negotiations, the parties agreed to the following Items,
1.	Employeeswill be entitledto an annual clothing allowance of $40.00,
2.	Thejob of Textile Splral/Barrier Line will becomea classified job however, employeeswho previously held the Textile Spiraljob will be grandfatheredfor bumping purposeslnto the Barrier Linejob. Theywill be given up to seven (7) months to train and qualify, providedthe employee meetsthe standards.
3.	The Company will consider Installation of a sound system for music in the cafeteria and locker rooms.
4.	A copy of the following forms will be contained In the C.L.A,:
■ Form 1-A-98 Shift Change RequestAttachment B,
5.	The Company hasthe rightto Implement a full 7-day, 12 hour shift schedule for the entire plant.
6.	The lastfour (4) hours of each Sunday shift on the seyen (7) day continental shift rotation will be paid at time and one half the regular rate of pay.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Pavld P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manger.
LETTER #20
76
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002
President,
Local 8341,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
Itls recognized that the maintenance of discipline Is essential to the orderly operation of the plant. The Company agrees with the principleof progressivediscipllne. The Company also recognizes that by the very nature of events leadingto discipline every situationmust be reviewed beforetaking any disciplinary action. A significant factor is the Intentional or unintentional natureofthe ad. This disciplinary action will rangefrom verbal warnings up to and Includingdischarge.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manger.
LETTER#30
76
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Colllngwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002,
President,
Local 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
During recent negotiations it was agreedthatthe Companywill allow the Union to post their response to Section 63.1 of the Employment Standards Act in the Union Bulletin Board.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial RelationsManger.
77
Form I-A-08 ATTACHMENTS SHIFT CHANGE REQUEST
I HEREBY REQUEST TO CHANGE SHIFTS FOR i
WITH______________________________
FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON
Signed
Date
Signed
Date
Approved
Date
NUMERICAL INDEX
SECTION 1 -SECTION 2 -SECTION 3 -
SESKS&i-
SECTION a -
PA£f
DEFINITIONS................... 1
BENEFITS..................... 2
ELIGIBILITY.................. 7
GENERAL PROVISIONS............ 9
TERM CF AGREEMENT............ 11
$
INDEX BY SUBJECT MATTER
Accidental Death & Dismemberment 1 Advance of W.l. Payments Agreement, Term of Alcohol & Drug Abuse
PARAGRAPH
Sect. 2 Para.3 Letter #3
Sect. 5 Para. 1-6 Letter #1
• PAGE
3-4
18
11-13
16
Benefits			
-Accidental Deaths Dismemberment	Sect. 2	Para.3	3-4
-Basic Hospital. Medicals	Sect. 2	Para,5	6
Surgical Expense			
-ComprehensiveHealth Care	Sect. 2	Para,6	6-7
-Dental Coverage			14
-Life insurance	Sect. 2	Para.1	2-3
-Totals Permanent Disability	Sect. 2	Para.2	3
-Wfeekly Indemnity	Sect. 2	Para.4	4-5
C
Comprehensive Health Care Benefit Coverage after Retirement Coverage after Lay off
Sect. 2 Para.6 Sect. 2 Para,7 Letter #6
6-7
7
21
D
Definitions
Dental Coverage
Dispensing Fee
Sect. 1	1-2
14
Letter #7	22
E
Eligibility for Benefits
Sect. 3 Para. 1-7	7-9
G
General Provisions
Sect. 4 Para. 1-11 **
9-11
L
Life Insurance Letters of Understandings -Advance ofW.I. Payments • -Alcoholism 3 Drug Abuse • -Coverage afterlayoff . -Dispensing Fee -Drug Plan -Nursing Services -O.H.I.P, Premium -6 2/3 DayWork Schedule
Sect. 2 Para.1
Letter#3 Letter #1 Letter #6 Letter #7 Letter #8 Letter #4 Letter#2 Letter#5
N
Nursing Services
Letter #4
O
O.H.I.P, Premium
Letter#2
R
Retirement, insurance CoverageAfter	Sect, 2 Para,7
S
6 2/3 Day Work Schedule
Letter#5
Term of Agreement Total & Permanent Disability
Sect. 5 Sect. 2
Para,1-6 Para,2
W
Weekly indemnity
Sect. 2 Para.4 Letter#3
2-3
18
16
21
22
23
19 17
20
19
17
7
20
11-13
3
4-5
18
1
HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the 27th day of April, 2002 by and between GOODYEAR CANADA INC. with respectto certain employees at Its COLUNGWOOD FACTORY, hereinafter referred to as the "Employer" and the UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, Local Union 834L, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
WITNESSETH THAT:
Subject to the approval of this Agreement by the Board of Directors of the Company, the Employer agrees with the Union that it will continue the establishment, maintenance and administration of a life and disability insurance, sickness and accident, hospital and surgical benefit plan originally instituted in 1967 and providing the benefits hereinafter described, and hereinafterdescribed as the "Plan", in such manner as the Employer shall determine consistent with tie terms of this Agreement. No action taken in performanceofthe tens of this Agreement and consistent herewith shall be construed or interpreted to be a violation of any of the terms of any collective bargaining agreement between the Employer and the Union.
SECTION 1.
P5FINITIQN?
1.	In this Agreement:
I (a)	"dependant" means and Includes a person not employed by the Employer
who is the spouse of an employee and the unmarried child under the age of twenty-five years of an employee who is a full time student and Is supported by such employee. In this definition, spouse means: (1) the husband or wife of an employee who is legally married to the employee, or (2) a person who has for a continuous period of not less than one year resided with the employee and during such period had been publicly represented as the spouse of the employee.
(b)	"employee" means and includes each and every employee of the
Employer at Its Colllngwood Factory below the rankof foreman, with exception of quality assurance inspectors, office and sales staff.
(c)	"insurer" means any duly qualified insurance company licensed to
undertake a contract of life Insurance and/or group life Insurance and/or sickness and accident Insurance in the Province of Ontario and includes any association registered underthe Prepaid Hospital and Medical Service Act of Ontario.
2
SECTION 1 Definitions (Cont’d)
1.	(d) "layoff" means the termination of work of an employee by the Employer
for an indefinite period, caused by the decision of the Employerto reduce or eliminate the work upon which the employee was engaged, "laid off' shall have a like meaning.
(e)	"physician" means a medical practitionerwho is registered under the Medical Act of the Province of Ontario or such similar statute or law as governs the practice of medicine in the jurisdiction in which any medical, surgical or obstetrical services are rendered to an employee or dependant.
(f)	"pensioner" means an employee who retires on or after the effective date of this Agreement and who becomes and continues to be eligible for a pension (other than a Deferred Vested Pension) pursuant to the terms of a Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement entered into by the parties hereto on the 27" day of April, 2002.
2.	Each employee shall be deemed to be single without dependants until he/she has satisfied the Employerwith such proof as it shall reasonably require of the existence of his/her dependant or dependants. Completion and delivery to the Company of a statement in a form satisfactoryto the Employer, fully and correctly completed and signed by the employee, will be accepted by the Employeras satisfactory evidenceofthe status of an employee's dependant or any change thereof. Dependants shall be covered upon registration. Proofof insurability will not be required however no retro-active coveragewill be provided.
3.	In this Agreement, wherever the pronoun "he" appears, it shall be construed as meaning any employee, male or female, unless the context requires otherwise.
LIFE AND ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE AND SURVIVOR INCOME BENEFITS
1.	The Company will enter into a contract of group life insurance with an insurer or
Insurers Insuring each employee and pensioner as follows:
§ggnoji2
BENEFITS
CLASSIFICATION
AMOUNT
All employees
Pensioners
(otherthanfcrtotal& permanent disability)
3
This Insurance will take effect upon the day the employee or pensioner first
becomes eligible to participate in the Plan. The insurance in respect of an employee shall automaticallyterminate on the date of termination of the Plan or on the date of termination of active employment of such employee, whatever date isthe earlier. The insurance in respect of a pensioner shall automatically terminate upon the date he/she becomes ineligible for the payment of a pension pursuantto the terms of the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement entered into by the parties hereto on the 27th day of April, 2002.
2.	(a) If any employee, before attaining the age of sixty-five years and while insured hereunder, becomes totally disabled and presumablywill thereafter during his/her life be unable to engage in any occupation or employment for wage or profit, and is not eligible for a Total and Permanent Disability Pension pursuantto the terms of the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement dated the 27th day of April, 2002, the Company will cause the insurer upon proof thereof to the satisfaction of the insurer, to pay to such employee the amount of life insurance in force upon such life at the time such disability commenced, either in one lump sum or in instalments as the Company may direct. Such payment in full shall be accepted in lieu of all other insurance benefits provided for on the life of such person under the Plan. Without restrictingthe meaning of the phrase "totally disabled", the entire and irrevocable loss of the sight of both eyes, or of the use of both hands, or both feet, or of one hand one foot, shall be deemed to be total and permanent disability.
(b)	If an employee for whom life insurance coverage is provided in
accordance with the provisionsof this Agreement is eligible to receives Total and Permanent Disability Pension priorto his/her Normal Retirement Date under the terms of the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement entered into between the parties hereto on the 27th day of April, 2002, the Company will cause the insureror insurersinsuringsuch employee, in lieu of payingthe proceeds thereofto the employee in accordance with the procedure set forth in Section 2 (a) hereof, to continue his/her life insurance coverage (but not
Retirement Date as defined In the said Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement, in the amount of:
$50,000 if retirement occurs on or after April 27,2002
and on reaching Normal Retirement Date the amount of life insurance coverage shall be reduced to $6,000.
3.	The Company will enter into a contract of group insurance with an insurer or
insurers insuring each employee for Accidental Death ajnd Dismemberment Insurance in the amount of:	.
$50,000 EffectiveApril 27, 2002
4
It is understood and acknowledged that Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will not be provided for pensioners (including pensionersln receipt of a Total and PermanentDisablllty Pension), Such Insurance shall be payable in a lumpsum in the event the death of an employee follows within six months as a result of bodily injury caused, directly and independently of all other causes, by external violent and accidental means.
Such insurance shall likewise be payable in the event an employee suffers the entire and irrevocable loss of two hands or feet or sight of eyes or any two of them, caused by accident. One-half of such insurance shall likewise by payable in the event an employee suffers the entire and Irrevocable loss of one hand or one foot or sight of one eye caused by accident. One-third of such insurance shall likewise be payable in the event an employee suffers the loss of four fingers on one hand. One quarter of such insurance shall likewise be payable in the event of the loss of all toes on one foot.
To qualify for this dismemberment insurance the bodily injury must occur within six months of the occurrence of the accident. The amount of Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance payable under this plan in respect of an employee shall in no event exceed the principal sum specified in this paragraph. The contract may contain such limitations and conditions os are normally found In contracts issued in Ontario for insurance of this type,
4.	Weekly Indemnity Benefits
(a) If bodily Injuries caused by accident or sickness shall directly and independently of all other causes, totally and continuously disable an employee and prevent him/her from performing any and every duty of any occupation, the Employerwill pay or cause to be paid to the employee weekly Indemnity benefits at the rate of:
Currently In effect $320,00 a week
for a period of such continuous total disability but not exceeding fifty-two weeks of any such disability for all employees.
b) There will be no limit to the number of different periods of disability for which benefits will be paid. Periods of disability due to the same cause will be considered the same period of disability, unless separated by return to full-time work for at least two weeks. Periods of disability due to different causes will be considered different periods of disability ifseparated by return to full-time work An employeein receipt of weekly indemnity at the time of lay-off shall continue to receive his/her weekly indemnity paymentsfor the maximum period for which he/she would have been entitled if he/she had not been laid off.
5
(c)	If the disability is the result of an accident the benefits will be paid as,
from, and Includingthe first day of disability. If the disability is the result of sickness the benefits will be paid as, from and Includingthe eighth day of continuousdisability except that when the disability results from day surgery or in the confinement to hospitalofthe employee, the benefits will be paid as, from and including the first day of such surgery or hospitalization, A day will be deemed to start at midnight; part days shall be treated as whole days: and part weeks shall be indemnified at the rate of one-fifth for each working day of disability.
(d)	Weekly indemnity shall not be payable for disability resultingfrom bodily injury or sickness for which the employee is not under the care of a physician. Subject to the foregoing, the date upon which the disability begins shall be deemed to be the first day upon which the employee fails to report to the Employerfor work or is required to cease work before his/her regular quitting time and the date upon which the disability terminates shall be deemed to be the day before the first day upon which the employee is capable of performing the duties pertaining to his/her occupation with the Employer.
(e)	Weekly Indemnity benefit shall not be payable for any disability:
(i)	resulting from Injury or sickness for which the employee is entitled to receive indemnify In accordancewith any Workers'
Compensation or similar law;
(il)	resultingfrom Injurysustainedorsicknesscontracted asadirector indirect resultof war or engaging in a riot;
(III) resulting from wilfully self-inflicted injury or from any attempt at selfdestruction:
(lv) resulting from a pregnancy.
(f)	Where an employee receives weekly indemnity benefits by reason of a bodily injury or sickness In respect of which some third party Is under legal liability, the Employershall be subrogated to the employee's rightto compensation for the cost of benefits provided In respect of such bodily Injury or sickness to the extent of the amount paid by the Employer either directly or indirectly In respect thereof, and the employee by acceptance of the benefits will undertake that he/she shall prosecute such claim against the third party at the expense of, and to the extent directed by the Employer, and pay over to the Employerwhat it is entitled to receive as aforesaid, togetherwith any expenses it may have paid or Incurred for any monies recovered from such third party, and he/she will do ail acts and execute all documents necessary to permit the Employerto obtain the benefit of this clause.
6
5.	Basic Hospital. Medical and Surgical Expense Benefits
(a)	The Company agrees to pay the whole of the monthly premium to the Ontario Health Insurance Commission, in respect to each employee eligible to receive benefit from the Employer so as to qualify the employee and his/her dependants, if any. for entitlement to receive the insured benefits provided by the Ontario Health Insurance Plan as in effect on or after April 27,2002.
(b)	Should the Ontario Health Insurance Commission vary the terms and conditions of enrolment in the Ontario Health Insurance Plan as set forth in paragraph 1 above, or should the services to be rendered and benefits to be provided under such Plan be varied, extended or restricted in more than a nominal manner, the Company may at any time thereafter at its option, and shall upon request in writing of the Union, if permitted by law, negotiate with other insurers to procure a contract to provide hospitalization benefits or services or any part thereof that has been discontinued as a result of a variations or restriction in the Plan having marked resemblance or likeness in the aggregate to the benefits provided In paragraph 1 above. If the Company is not permitted by law to negotiate with an insurer for substituted benefits either in whole or in part, then the services to be rendered under such Plan as modified, shall be substituted for the services described under paragraph 1 above, but the Company may at its option and is In that event authorized to deduct from the wages Of each employee a sufficient amount each month thereafter to defray the cost of any increase in premium resulting from any change in the terms and conditions of enrolment and/or any variation in the services and benefits as aforesaid.
(c)	Effective April 27, 2002 supplementary hospital benefits are eliminated. Employees and future retireeswould be eligible forward accommodation under the Provincial Plan. Current or existing retirees are n'ot affected by this change of coverage.
6.	Comprehensive Health Care Benefit
The Company will prqvfd#, through an Insurerselectedby the Company, a Comprehensive Health Care Plan, including:
eyeglasses $210/24 months
chiropractor $i S visit/maxlmum $250 year	i
NOTE:	. . It is agreed that employees receiving chiropractictreatment will be
:	reimbursed $15.00 per visit without having to reachthe maximum
annual level of expense as set by O.'-M.P
7
hearing aids $500 every 3 years
speech therapist up to a maximum of $250 per calendar year
psychologist up to a maximum of $250 per calendar year
orthopaedic shoes up to a maximum of $250 per calendar year
massage therapist up to a maximum of $250 per calendar year
The Plan will be provided for eligible employees and dependants if any, and will pay 100% of the cost of all eligible expenses.
7.	Employees who were eligible for a monthly pension (but not a deferred vested
pension)and who were retired by the Company priorto April 27, 2002 will continueto be provided with Life Insurance, hospitalexpense benefitsand medical expense benefits in accordance with Section 2, subsection 1,5 (a), 5 (c) and 6 of this Health and Life Insurance Agreement which were applicable at the date of being retired by the Company in accordance with the terms of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in affect at the date of such retirement.
Employees eligible for a pension (but not a deferred vested pension) who are in receipt of a pension or become entitled to the receipt of a pension pursuant to the provision contained in the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement dated April 27,2002, of any predecessor Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement between the parties and who are residents of either Canada or the United States of America will be provided with Life Insurance, hospitalexpense benefitsand medical expense benefits in accordance with Section 2, subsection
1,5	(a), 5(c) and 6 of this Agreement in respectto illnessor injuries sustained by them or their dependants after the effectivedate of this Agreement providing they have been or are retired by the Company.
Only those eligible dependants on record with the Company at retirementwill be covered in respect of the benefitsprovided in subsection 5 (a), 5 (c) and 6 of this Section 2.
SECTION 3
Eligibility
1.	All employees eligible for benefits under the previous Health and Life Insurance Plan, shall be eligible for the benefitsofthis agreement covering death, bodily injury or sickness sustained or incurred after the effective date of this agreement.
4.
(|) An employee who was not eligible for benefits prior to the effective date of this agreement hired priorto the effective date of this agreementwlll become eligible for the benefits of this agreement arising out of death, bodily injury or sickness sufferedor incurred by him/her on the first day of the month following the month in which he/she completesfour months continuous service with the Employer.
(il) An employee hired after the effectivedate of this agreementwill become eligible for the benefits of this agreement arising out of death, bodily injury or sickness suffered or Incurred by him/her on the first day of the month following the month in which he/she completes four months continuous service with the Employer.
Benefitsin respect of any dependant of an employee shall become effective as o the date the dependants properly recordedwith tine Employer, provided that the employee him/herself Is eligible upon that date,
(a) An eligible employee who is laid off shall be entitled to the benefits under Section 2 on the following basis.
Life Insurance & Accidental Death& Dismemberment Insurance will be continued for a period not exceeding three months.
Hospital, surgical, medical and Comprehensive Health Care Benefits for the employee and eligible dependants will be continued to the end of the calendar month next following that in which the layoff occurs.
(b)	An eligible employee who is laid off shall not be entitled to weekly
indemnity benefitsarising out of any bodily Injury or sickness suffered or incurred after the date upon which the layoff occurred.
An eligible person who is re-employed with credit for prior service shall be reinstated:
automatically with respectto the benefitsdescribed in Section 2, Parts
1,2,3,4	in that his/her eligibility shall not be subject to provisions of Sectior 2 of this Part, and
b)
with respectto the benefits described in Section 2, Parts 5 & 6, as of the day of re-employmentif such re-employmentoccurson the first day of a month, and in other cases on the first day of the month next following.
e An eligible employee who Is absent from work because of bodily Injury or ’ sickness shall continue to be eligible for ail benefits for a period which is equivalent to the period he/she Is entitled to accumulate seniority and service during his/her absence for this reason underthe terms of the Collective Labour Agreement.
9
7. An eligible employee who is on leave of absence with the consent in writing of the Employer shall be entitled to all benefits with the exception of weekly indemnity benefits for a period not exceeding three months.
95CT1QN4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	The Company shall have the sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions of this agreement for the operation and administration of the Plan.
2.	The Company may enter into a contract or contracts with an insurer or insurersto provide all or any of the benefits described herein, and, upon so doing the Company shall be relieved of any liability to any employee, pensioners or dependant with respectto performance of the obligations contracted for by the insurer; and the Company may from time to time without the consent of any employee or pensioneramend, terminate, reinstate, and/or substitute any such contractor contracts.
3.	The employee shall complete any application or questionnaire relatingto the number, sex and age of hlm/herself and his/her dependantsorthe facts pertaining to a claim for benefit presented to him/her by an insurer, either through the Company or otherwise.
4.	The Insurershall issue or cause to be issued a certificate to each employee eligible for benefits which will describe the benefits and privileges provided hereunderby said insurer, the employee shall be deemed to accept all the benefits and privileges thus described and all liabilities and obligations except the liability and obligation to pay the premium, fee, or other regularcharge of the insurer.
5.	The Companyshall have the right, and an employee or pensioner claiming payment of disability shall afford an opportunity, to examination of the person of me employee or his/her dependant, by a physician appointed by it, when and as often as it may reasonably require while a claim for benefit Is pending.
6.	If a dispute shall arise between the Company, or its insurer as the case may be, and an employee as to whether such employee is, or continues to be, suffering from bodily injury or sickness of a degree, extent, and type that gives rise to a claim for benefits under the Plan, such dispute shall be resolved as follows:
The employee or disabled person shall be examined by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Company or the insurerand by a physician appointed fior that purpose by the Union. If they shall disagree concerning the kind and nature of the disability the question shall be submitted to a third physician selected by the
'Said tWO Physicians. The opinlonof the third physician, after examination Of the disabled person and consultation with the other two physicians, shall be accepted by the Company or the insurer, the Union and the employee as irrefutable evidence of the facts therein disclosed, and the degree, extent and type of disability suffered by the disabled person. The fees and expenses of the / third physician shall be shared equally by the Company or the insurer and the Union.
If a dispute shall arise between the Company and an employee with reference to eligibility fOr benefits or payment of claims under the Plan, or if a dispute shall arise between the Company and the Union as to whether the Company has provided add continues to provide benefits as hereinbefore described, such dispute may be taken as a grievance under the grievance procedure to the Industrial Relations .Manager of the Company. If any such grievance shall be taken to arbitration in accordance with such procedure, the arbitrator or Board of arbitration, insofar as It may be necessary to the determination of such grievance, shall have authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement and of the Collective Labour Agreement. He/she or it shall have no authority to add to or subtract from any provision of this Agreement or to waive or fail to apply any requirement of eligibility for benefits under the Agreement. The decision of the arbitrator or Board of Arbitration on any grievance property referred shall be binding upon the Company, the Union and the employee.
The establishment of the Plan shall not give any employee any additional right to be retained In the employment of the Company! and each employee shall remain subject to discipline, discharge or layoff to the same extent as if such Plan had not been put Into effect.
The Plan is subject to such amendment from time to time as may be necessary to meet the requirements of any applicable Federal or Provincial laws, order or rpgulattbns, and the relevant provisions of the Insurance Act of Ontario shall be ' deemed to apply except to the extent that such provisions may be waived or are superseded by. the express provisions of this Agreement.
Payment of Claims Shall be made with due regard to the times and manner in which payments,Of claims pf the types' provided in this agreement are customarily paid in Ontario, Any notice or payment directed to an employee shall be deemed to he, properly delivered Of tendered when mailed, postage prepaid, to the most recent addressbf the employee shown upon the records of the Company.
, '1* 7 < '
, Eligible hospitaler medical expenses incurred by dependants covered under this Agreement will be evaluated on the following basis if the dependant is also covered under another group insurance plan.
11
(1)	Benefits will notbe Payable underthis Agreement forthat portion of the expenses which are eligible for reimbursement under another pian when the dependant is covered as an employee under the other plan.
(2)	The benefits payable under this Agreement will be reduced by the amount of the reimbursement made under another plan when the dependant is covered as a dependant under the other plan.
SECTION 5
TERM OF AGREEMENT
1.	The Company has entered into this Agreement on condition that the whole of the premiums, costs and expenses it incurs in fulfilment hereof shall be and shall continueto be allowed by government tax authorities as a properdeductlon in computing income taxable under the provisions of the Income Tax Act or any other applicable tax laws now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted. In the eventthe relevant govemmenttax authorities refuse to allow such deduction or withdraw their approval of such deduction, this Agreement shall terminate on the effective date of such refusal or withdrawal or upon the expiration of thirty days afterthe Company shall first have been advised by such tax authorities of such refusal or withdrawal of approval, whichever is later.
During the such thirty day period, the parties will meet for the purpose of negotiating any modificationor changes required in order to obtain such approval of such tax authorities, provided, however, the Company during such thirty day period shall not be requiredto pay any premiums, costs, or expenses arisingout of this Agreement which it is not entitledto deduct as an expense before taxes under the provisions of The Income Tax Act and any other applicable tax laws now in effector hereafter amended or adopted, and payment of benefits shall be discontinued to a like extent,
2.	If at anytime a Federal or Provincial Government passes legislation which directly or indirectly has the effect of providing benefits similar to one or more of the benefits described in the Plan for which the employees as a class shall be eligible, this Agreement shall automatically be revisedforthe purpose of integrating such Federal or Provincial Government Plan with this Plan on the expiration of thirty days afterthe proclamation of sudi statute or on the date such statute comes Into effect, whichever is later. Duringsuch thirty day period or such longer period as may reasonably be requiredto carry out such integration, the Companywill take such steps as may be necessary or desirable to terminate any duplication of benefits and to assure that the aggregate of the statutory benefits so provided and the benefitsunderthisPlan shall approximatein kind and
12
money value the benefits provided under the Plan before said statutory enactment, providing this can be done without additional cost to the Company.
3.	II at any time it shall be necessary or appropriate to make any revision of this Agreement pursuantto paragraph 1 a this Section, the Company may make such revisions retroactively or otherwise with the consent of the Union. The making of such revision shall be the subject of immediate negotiations between the Company and the Union. In such negotiationsthe Company and the Union shall recognize that the Collective Labour Agreement then in effectwas executed in the expectation that the Plan, or one with substantially equivalent benefits would be and remain in effect during the term of this Agreement and of any renewal thereof theretofore made.
4.	i n the event of the refusal of the Board of Directors of the Company to approve this Agreement on or before the 1,( day of May 2002 or in the event that this Health and Life Insurance Agreement is terminated pursuantto Section 1 of this Part, eitherthe Union or the Company may apply to the Ontario Labour Relations Board for permission to terminate any Collective Labour Agreement then In effect and the other party shalljoin in such application. If, subsequent to notice of termination of such Collective Labour Agreement or subsequent to termination of this Agreement the parties settle any difference between them and this Agreement is reinstatedor a successor Agreement is made that such Collective Labour Agreement, if terminated, shall be reinstated to continue in full force until subsequently terminated according to its provisions as contained therein.
5.	This Agreement constitutes a full settlement of all demands of the Union for life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance and accident and sickness benefits Includingweekly Indemnity benefits, for the duration of the Agreement and during the term hereof or any renewal hereof. Neitherthe Union nor Its representative shall:
(a) make any demand that this Agreement be changed in any respect or terminated or that a new life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, or sickness and accident benefit plan be established for the employees, or that the Company contribute or pay any greater amount for such benefits for the employees than it is required to pay under the provisions hereof;
/(3) engage in or continue to engage in, or in any manner encourage or sanction any strike or other action which will interfere with work or production at the plants of the Company for the purpose of securing any such change, increaseor termination;
and except during the last seventy-five days of the term of this Agreement, or of any renewal thereof, the Company shall not have any obligation to
13
negotiate or bargain with the Unionwith respectto any of the matters referred to in clause (a) of this paragraph. Any and ail benefits similar in kind to those described in clause (a) hereof heretofore supplied, granted or sponsored by the Company for the employees shall be discontinued as of the effective date of this Plan, insofar as lies within the powers of the Company, and the Union will supportthe Company in its efforts to accomplish such discontinuance.
6.	(a) Subjectto the foregoing, this Agreement shall become effective on or
after date of ratification and shall continue In full force and affect thereafter in respect to all benefits until the 27th day of April, 2005, and thereafterfrom year to year unless either patty gives to the other patty notice in writing of cancellation or of proposals for revision within a period of not less than two monthsor more than three months priorto the termination date, the last day of original period, or of any extended period being referred to herein as the termination date.
(b)	If either party gives to the othera notice of cancellation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph6 (a) of this Section this Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice.
(c)	If either party gives to the other a notice of proposals for revision in accordance with the provisionsof Section 6 (a) of this Part, the parties shall meet to considerthe proposed revision within fifteen days of the date of delivery of such notice. If no agreement on the proposed revisions is reached by midnight April 27, 2005 or by midnight of any subsequent anniversary date, as the case may be, this agreementshall be continued in operation for a period not exceeding one year or until a new agreement is reached or until the procedures contemplated by Section 74 of the Labour Relations Act has been completed. In the event of termination
of this agreement by strike or lockout, the benefits described therein shall be provided for 90 days following termination. The termination of this Agreement shall not have the effect of automatically discontinuing the payment of benefits insofar as it affects the benefits payable with respect to disabilities which were suffered or incurred priorto the date of termination.
(d)	The letters of understandingand the Understandingof Dental Plan are attached hereto, and form part of this Agreement.
Understanding of dental Plan
Ijt ls understood that, effective April 27,2002, arrangements will be made to provide for all eligible employees and their dependants, dental coverage similar to the Blue Cross Preventive Dental Care Plan No. 7 with Riders No. 1 and 2 which:
Effective April 27,2002 is based on; the 2000 Ontario Dental Association fee guide up to an annual maximum coverage of $1600 per emplpyee and each eligible dependant
Effective May 1,2003 is based on the 2001 Ontario Dental Association fee guide up to an annual maximum coverage of $1500 per employee and each eligible dependant.
Effective May 1,2004 Is based on the 2002 Ontario Dental Association fee guide up to an annual maximum coverage of $1500 per employee and each eligible dependant.
Dental check ups will be covered at 9-month intervals.
15
SIGNED AND EXECUTED AT COLLINGWOOD, ONTARIO THIS 2003.
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. COLLINGWOOD FACTORY
J. Thompson
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF
AMERICA
LOCAL UNION 834L
J. Chamelot, Int. Rep.
LETTER#!
16
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding given to you by the Company during-recent negotiations.
For purpose of weekly Indemnity benefits, in the case of alcoholism and/or drug addiction for employee8 with one or more years of credited company service, the company will pay or cause to be paid a weekly indemnity benefit equal to that payable under Section2 ofthe Health and Life InsuranceAgreement to which this letter is attached, based on the following criteria:
1.	The disability due to alcohol and/or drug addiction must be recognized by a medical doctor selected by the Company.
2.	The employee must be referred to a recognized institutionfor treatment of such disability.
3.	The maximum number of weeks for which payment will be made up to 8 weeks.
4.	Such consideration will only be made once for any one employee.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
17
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27.2002
LETTER #2
President,
Local Union834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood. Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding given to you by the Company during recent negotiations.
if is the intention of the Company to pay the present rate or subscription payment as wed as any subsequent increase that might be implemented during the term a this Agreement, for the Ontario Health Insurance Pian.
No supplementary benefit plans that may be in existence will be considered included in the above reference to the Ontario Health Insurance Plan.
Yours very truly.
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman.
Industrial Relations Manager.
18
LETTER#3
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 MountainRoad, Collingwood,Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002,
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,	-
Collingwood, Ontario.	'
Dear Sir:
The Company agrees to advance the paymentsofWeekly Indemnity Benefits as provided in the Health and Life Insurance Agreement if a delay in paymentsof more than three (3) weeks should occur, providing the necessary forms are filled out correctly by the employee.
The employee shall reimburse the Company immediately after receiving payment from the Insurance company.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
19
LETTER #4
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y329
April 27, 2002,
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This will confirm our understandingconcerning Nursing Services reached during the recent negotiations.
Services rendered in a patient's home by a registered nurse (R.N.) will be subject to a maximum eligible expense in a year of $25,000 less the amount paidfor registered nurses services during the two precedingyears plus $100 per day thereafter.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
20
LETTER #5
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 329
April 27, 2002.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkersof America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This will confirm the Company policy concerning the eligibility for weekly indemnity benefitsfor employees working on the 6 2/3 daywork schedule,
Weekly indemnity benefitsas a result of sickness will begin after 40 hours of regular work lost.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
i' I
LETTER#6
21
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 27, 2002.
Resident Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood. Ontario.
Dear Sir
It is the intention of the Company to providea letter to laid off employees detailing the expiry date of benefits under this plan.
Yarn very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
Oavid P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager,
LETTER#7
22
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 329
April 27, 2002,
President,	•
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letterwfll serve to confirm the understandinggiven to you by the Company during recent negotiations regarding the prescription drug plan.
Before being added to the drug formulary (the list of eligibledrugs covered under the plan) all new drugs must be reviewed and approved by a third party medical evaluation group.
The dispensing fee on eligible prescription drugs will be limited to a maximum of $10 per prescription.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER##
23
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 329
April 27. 2002
President.
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America, Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
RE: Goodyear Drug Plan
The Goodyear drug plan will continuefor eligible employees, future retirees and their eligible dependents until the age of 65, Once the employeeor retiree attains age 65, the Goodyear drug plan will terminate for that Individual employee. At the age of 65, employees or retirees would then convertto the drug plan coverage provided by the Ontario Drug Benefit Plan (O.D.B),
Current or existing retirees are not affected by this change in coverage.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
DavidP, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
PENSION PLAN
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. COLL1NGWOOD FACTORY
THEEMPLOYER
AND
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL 834L
FOR THE EMPLOYEES
APRIL 27,2002 - APRIL 26, 2005
OCTOBER,2002
PENSION PLAN AGREEMENT
THS AGREEMENT i s made and «nter«d into as of the 27th day of April, 2002, by and between GOODYEAR CANADA INC., hereinafter referred to as the "Employer", and the UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL 834L,
representing the employees in the Bargaining Unit at the Employer1 s Collingwood Factory, hereinafter referred to as the "Union". ' r
WHEREAS the parties hereto established a Pension Plan effective on the third day of November, 1967, which Pension Plan has thereafter been amended fr6m time to time;
AND WHEREAS the parties desire to provide for certain modificationsand amendments thereto;	>7'. ' 7/ / ' ■ ;
NOW,THEREFORE,IT IS MUTUALLY A ORBED AS FOLLOWS:
1,	The Employer agrees with the Union tint it will maintain the Pension Fund during
1,	the terrft of this Agreement and of any subsequent renewal thereof, subjectto:
(a)	the approval of this Agreement by the Board of Directors of the Employer,
(b)	the receipt and retention by the Employer of such approval of the Pension Plan by the Financial Services Commission of Ontario as the Employermay deem necessary tbv establish that the Pension Plan conforms with the requirements ofthe Pension Benefits Act, and
the receipt and retention by the Employer of such approval of the Pension Plan by the relevant tax authoritiesas the Employermay deem necessary to establish that the Employer is entitled to deduct the amount of its payments ■ ; i ; ; < of contributions to the Pension Fund as an expense before taxa under the provisions of the Income Ucix Act or any otherappiicabi* tax laws, as now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted.
2. 'No action taken in performance of this Agreement and consistentherewith shall be construed or interpreted to be a violation of any of the terms of any Collective Labour Agreement between the Employer and the Union.
'Art. This Agreement shall apply only to those eligible Employees who retire, die, become Totally aad Permanently Disabled or otherwise terminate Employment on or after April 27, 2002 arid during the term of this Agreement, except as expressly to foe -contrary: Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, the addition, of « Section 2,10 and Schedule 1 to this Agieementare effective January 1, 2002,
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
1. DEFINITIONS
1.1	Actuarial Equivalent
1.2	Actuary
1.3	Bargaining Unit
1.4	Basic Ifensicn
1.5	Beneficiary
1.6	collective Labour Agreement
1.7	commutedvalue
1.8	Continuous Service
1.9	Credited Service
1.10	Effective Date
1.11	Employee
1.12	Employment
1.13	Former Employee
1.14	Fund Manager
1.15	Income Usk Act
1.16	Normal Retirement Date
1.17	Pension Benefits Act
1.18	Pension CommencementDate
1.19	Pension Fund
1-20	Pension Plan
4	121	Pensioner
'	122 spouse
123	Statutory Benefit
124	Statutory Benefit Date
1.25 Supplementary Itosioi
126 Totally and Permanently Disabled
2.	EUGIBELITY FOR RETIREMENT AND AMOU NT OF BENEFITS
2.1	Norm ai Retirement
2.2	Special Early Retirement
2S	Regular Early Retirement
2.4	Plant Closure
2.5	Retirement During Absence From Work
Pjge
1
1
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
5 5 5 5 5
5
6 7
7
7
8
9
9
10 11
GDYRCOLL
OafeNsri 2002
Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Cont'd)
.Article
2.	ELIGIBILITY FOR RETIREMENT AND AMOUNT OF BENEFITS (cont'd)
2.6	Total and Permanent Disability Retirement
2.7	Maximum Basic Pension
2.8	Maximum Basic and Supplementary Pension
2.9	Maximum Supplementary Pension
2.10	Additional Pension
3.	DEDUCTIONS
3.1	Inter-Plan Transfers
3.1.1	Eligibility
3.1.2	CalculationofPension
3.1.3	Subsequent Transfer
3.1.4	Conditions for Calculation
Page
11
13
14
15 15
16
16
16
17
17
4.	PAYMENT OF PENSIONS
4.1	Net A/nount Payable	18
4.2	Commencement Date for Basic Pension	18
4.3	Normal Form of Payment for Basic Pension	20
4.4	Automatic Spouse Option for Basic Pension	20
4.5	Waiver of Spouse Option	20
4.6	Optional Forms of Payment for Basic Pension	21
4.7	Payment of SupplementaryPension	22
4.8	Small Payments	22
4.9	Pensioner Unable To Care For His/Her Affairs	22
4.10	Non-Alienationof Benefits	23
4.11	Credit Splitting	23
4.12	Diminished Life Expectancy	23
ODYRCOLL
October, 2002
Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Coat'd)
Article
5.	BENEFITS ON DEATH BEFORE RETIREMENT
5.1	Death Benefit
5.2	Spousal Waiver
6.	TERMINATION BENEFITS
6.1	Deferred Vested Pension After 10 Year
6.2	Deferred Vested Pension Before 10 Years
6.3	Early Commencement of Deferred Vested Pension
6.4	Alternative Settlements
6.5	Re-employment
6.6	Termination Before Effective Date
lye
25
26
27
27
28 28
29
30
7. BENEFICIARY
7.1 Designation ofBeneficiary	31
& ADMINISTRATION
8.1 Administrator S J!	Proof of Age
8J Written Explanation 8,4	Information to Union
8 .5	Records of Employer
32
32
32
33 33
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002
Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Cont'd)
Article
9.	FINANCING
9.1	Pension Fund
9.2	Employer Contributions
9.3	Employee Contributions
9.4	Disbursement from the Pension Fund
9.5	Pensions Payable Solely from the Pension Fund
9.6	Overpayments and Refunds
9.7	General Provisions
10.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
10.1	Contributory Pension Plan
10.2	Effect of Retirement
10.3	No Guarantee of Employment
10.4	GrievanceProcedure
10.5	Dispute as to Disability
11.	TERM OF AGREEMENT
11.1	Submissionfor Approval
11.2	Negotiations on Refusal of Approval
11.3	Application to Labour Relations Board
11.4	Amendment During Term
11.5	Requirement for Mrfififld. Pension Plan
11.6	Duration of Agreement
11.7	Amendment Ht to Reduce Accrued Benefits
11.8	Full Settlement
11.9	Termination of Plan
SCF1EDULE1: Increases to Pensions in Pay
Page
34
34
35 35
35
36 36
37
37
37
38 38
40
40
41
41
42
42
43
43
44
45
GDYRCQLL
October, 2002
Table ofGtntEnfcs
ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS
Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
(1)	The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings for all purposes of the Pension Plan unless the context clearly indicates a contrary meaning.
(2)	All references in the Pension Plan to "Article" or "Section" shall refer to the articles and sections of this Pension Plan. The headings in this Pension Plan are inserted for convenience only and shall not have any effect upon the meaning of the provisions thereof,
(3)	Words in the singular shall be construed as including words in the plural and words in the plural as including words in the singular and words importing the masculine gender shall be construed as including the feminine gender.
1.1	"Actuarial Equivalent" means a benefit having an equal value to the normal form of benefit from which it is determined when computed on the basis of interest, mortality and other rates and tddles adopted by the Employer for such purpose on the advice of the Actuary and in accordance with the Pension Benefits Act and the Income Ttoc Act and accepted actuarial principles.
1.2	"Actiary" means the actuary cr film of actuaries appointed for the purpose of preparing the necessary actuarial valuations and calculations under the Pension Plan. The actuary or firm of actuaries shall be, or shall include, a Fellow of the Canadian Institute of Actuaries,
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 1 -	Definitions
1.3	"Bargaining Unit" neans the unit of employees defined in the Collective Labour Agreement.
1.4	“Basic Pension" neans the lifetime pension calculated in accordance with Section 2,1,
1.5	"Beneficiary" means the person or persons designated by an Employee in accordance with Article 7 to receive any benefits which may be payable as a result of the death of the Employee.
1.6	"Collective Labour Agreement", except where otherwise provided herein, means the Collective Labour Agreement between the Employer and the Union in effect at the time,
1.7	"Commuted Value" nears the aggregate actuarial present value of a benefit as of a fixed date as determined by the Employer in accordance with the requirements of the Pension Benefits Act and the Income Tbx Act.
1.8	"Continuous Service" neans the continuous service of an Employee with the Employer as it appears on his/her records maintained by the Employer, whether in or out of tie Bargaining Unit.
1.9	“Credited Service" means the Employee's pensionable service under another pension plan maintained by the Employer accrued prior to the time of transfer of membership from ttEt plan to this Pension Plan, if applicable, plus the Employee's Continuous Service while in the Bargaining Unit (computed to years and completed months for a fractional year) up to the date when the Employee ceases to be an Employee.
(JDYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 2 -
Definitions
Credited Service in respect of an Employee in full-time Employment for any calendar year is limited to one yea; of Credited Service. Credited Service in respect of an Employee in kcs than full-time Employment shall bo limited to a portion of the year determined by dividing the Employee's regular hours of Employment in the year (excluding overtime) by the scheduled regular hours of Employment for a full-time Employee in a comparable position.
Credited Service shall include:
(a)	pregnancy and parental leaves to the extent that relevant employment standards legislation requires such leaves to be credited under the Pension Plan, and
(b)	periods of absence while in receipt of disability benefits under relevant workers' compensation legislation to the extent that such legislation requires such periods of absence to be credited under the Pension Plan.
Notwithstanding the above or any other provision of the Pension Plan, Credited Service before and after January 1, 1992 shall be determined in accordance with the applicable digflrfe service provisions of the Income Tax Act. In particular, except for periods of disability credited under the Pension Plan, Credited Service for eligible periods of reduced pay or temporary absence (as defined under the Income iOx Act) after December 31, 1990 shall be limited in accordance with the prescribed compensation rules under the Income tEhx Art-
In no event will an Employee accrue Credited Service while he/she is in receipt of pension payments under the Pension Plan or under any other registered pension plan in which the Employer or another employer with whom the Employer does not deal at arm's length has
GDYRCOLL
Octobcr, 2002	- 3
Definitions
participated for tho benefit of the Employee. There will be no duplication of Credited
Service in respect of any period of servicevath the Employer.
1.10	^Effective Date" means, subject to the provisions of Sectio'n 11.1, the 27th day of April,
2002,
1.11	"Employee" means any male or female who is In Employment excluding any person who is a connected person as defined under the IncomeTax Act.
1,1-2 "Employment" means the status of a person who is employed by the Employer in the Bargaining lid±,as defined in this Article, during all times he/she is enrolled on its active payroll,
1.13	"Former Employee" means a person who previously had been in Employment and who is notin receipt ofapension under this Pension Plan.
1.14	','Fuad Manager" means the individual trustees, corporate trustee and/or insurance company, as selected by the Employer from time to time in accordance with the Pension Benefits Act and the EraieUbK Act, forthe purpose of establishing and maintaining a part or all ofthe Pension Fund.
1.15	. " La cocm TuAct" means the relevant rules under the IncomeTax Ad (Canada), including
all regulations and administrative rules issued pursuant to it, which are applicable to registered pension plans, In general, the rules under Information Circular 72-13R8 as amended apply to service prior to I anuary 1, 1992 and the rules under Part LXXXV of the ' regulations apply toservice from January 1,1992.
1.16	, "Normal. Retirement Date”, means the first day of file month next following an
GDYRCOLL
October,2002
4
Employee's 65th birthday, or the Employee's 65th birthday if it should fall on the first day of the month.
1.17	"Pension Benefit! Act" means The Pension Benefits Act, Revised Statutes of Ontario 1990, Chapter P,8 and any future legislation amending, supplementing, superseding or incorporating it. including any regulations issued pursuant to it, and also including, where applicable, any similar pension benefits legislation of Canada or another province having jurisdiction over the Pension Plan.
1.18	"Pension Commencement Date" means the date on which payment of a pension commences, determined in accordance with Section 4,2,
1.19	"Pension Fund" means the fund into which the Employer's contributions are being deposited as well as the investment income of this fund, and from which any pension, other benefits, administration expenses and other payments under the Pension Plan are paid.
1.20	"Pension Plan" means the non-contributoryPension Plan as set forth in Articles 1 toll.
1.21	"Pensioner" means a person who has retired, terminated Employment or become Totally and Permanently Disabled and is commencing or has commenced to receive pension payments from the Pension Plan.
1.22	"Spouse" means a person who is the Employee's lawful or common-law spouse, provided that if the Employee should have a lawful spouse and a common-law spouse, "Spouse" shall mean the lawful spouse unless the Employee has expressly designated the common-law spouse as his/her Beneficiary to receive any survivor benefits payable under the Pension Plan.
GDYRCOLL
October. 2002	. 5
Definitions
A common-law spouse shall be the person who, although not legally mairied to the Employeeby formal .ceremony,
(i)	has been living with the Employee for at least one year, or
(jj)	is in a relationship with the Employee of some permanence where they are the
natural or adoptive parents of a child, both as defined under the Family Law Act of Ontario.
Except after the Employee's retirement, where the Employee and the Spouse are living separate and apart at the date a determination is required, the Spouse shall cease to be the Employee's Spouse for the purposes of survivor benefits under the Pension Plan.
1.23	"Statutory Benefit" means the amount of any old age or disability benefit payable under any federal and/or provincial legislation to which a Pensioner shall be or upon application would be entitled; provided that such term doesnot include:
(a) a benefit payable under workers' compensation legislation, or
(b)
a benefit payable pursuant to occupationaldisease legislation,or
a benefit payableona "nBanstest” basis or solely on account ofblindneaa or,service in the aimed fcrcesor other national service, or
(d)
a benefit payable to or in respect of dependants, or
GPYRCOLL
October, 2002	• 6
Definitions
(e) a benefit payable under the Old Age SecurityAct (Canada).
124 "Statutory Benefit Pate" shall mean the date not later than the Employee's or Pensioner's Normal Retirement Date, at which any benefit becomes payable under the provisions ofthe Qld Age SecurityAct (Canada) in effect as of April 27,2002.
1.25 "Supplementary Pension" neans the bridging benefit calculated in accordance with Section 2,1.
126 "Totally and Permanently Disabled'' means the condition of an Employee who is disabled by bodily injury or disease, which disability will presumably be permanent and continuously and wholly prevent him/her, during the remainder of his/her life, from meeting die jcb requirements ofanyjob in the Bargaining Uit, other thanadisabilitywhich:
(a) was contracted, suffered or incurred while the Employee was engaged in, or resulted femhis/her having engaged in, a criminal enterprise, or
lb) resulted firm a wilfully self-inflictedinjury, or
(c)	can be established as due to service in the armed forces of any country.
GDYRCOLL
Oeidwr, 2002	- 7
Definitions
ARTICLE 2
ELIGIBILITY FOR RETIREMENT AND AMOUNT OF BENEFITS
2.1	Normal Retirement
2.1.1	Normal Retirement Date
Every Employee will be retired automatically on his/her Normal Retirement Date, which is the first day of the month coincidentwith or next following his/her 65th birthday.
2.1.2	Normal Retirement Pension
The monthly benefit paid to an Employee who retires on his/her Normal Retirement Date and on or after the Effective Date is qu a 1 to the sum of:
(a)	a monthly Basic Pension for life of $3 4,00 for each year of Credited Service, and
(b)	a monthly SupplementaryPension of$l 5.00 for each year of Credited Serviceupto 25 years, payable with each monthly Basic Pension payment up to and including the payment for the month in which the Statutory Benefit Date occurs.
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 8 -	Eligibility for Ret i prm#n t
2.2	Special Early Retirement
2.2.1	Special Early Retirement Date
An Employee qualifies for special early retirement if he/she:
(a)	has attained age 62 and completed 10 or more years of Continuous Service, or
(b)	has attained age 5 5 andcompleted30ormoreyearsofContinuous Service.
2.2.2	Special Early Retirement Pension
The special early retirement pension is calculated in the same manner as for a normal retirement.
2.3 Regular Early Retirement
2.3.1	Regular Early Retirement Date ■ Type 1
An Employee qualifies for regular early retirement if he/she is not eligible for spacial early retirement but he/she:	/
(a)	has attained age 60 and completed 10 or mom years of Continuous Sendee, cr
(b)	has attained age 55, but not age 60, and his/her combined age and Continuous Service(in completed months in each case) tr±aL85 or mom.
2.3.2	RegularEarly Retirement Pension • Type 1	t “r\
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002
Eligibility for Retirement
The regular early retirement pension is calculated in the same manner as for a normal retirement, but may be reduced, depending on when payment starts, If the Employee's Pension Commencement Date is on or after the first day of the month coincident with or next following his/her 62nd birthday, his/her pension will be unreduced. If it is prior to that date, his/her pension will be reduced by 4/10ths of 1% for each complete month between his/her Pension CommencementPate and the first day ofthe month coincidentwith or next following his/her 62nd birthday.
2.3.3	Regular Early Retirement Date • Type 2
An Employee qualifies for regular early retirement ifhe/she is not eligible for special early retirement but he/she:
(a)	has attained age 5 5 and completed two or more years of Continuous Service, and
(5) docs not retire under regular early retirement Type 1,
2.3.4	Regular Early Retirement Pension - Type 2
The regular early retirement pension is Calculated in the same manner as for a normal retirement, but it will be reduced as follows. The Basic Pension will be the Actuarial Equivalent of the pension otherwise payable at Normal Retirement Date. No Supplementary Pension will be payable.
2.4	Plant Closure
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	-10 -	Eligibility for Retirement
If the Collingwood ibctray is completely and permanently c 1 o d down, an Employee who Boot offered lie employment by the Employer in the Province of Ontario will be deemed lo have the Employer's consent forany pension under the Pension Plan requiring consent
2.5 mtirtintiit During Abieoee From Work
Aa Employee who is absent from active Employment, by reason of disability, sickness, layoff or other Employer approved leave of absence, may still quality for a normal {Bit watt, special early retirement or regular early retirementpension. In order to quality, (he. Employee must have kept his/her seniority under a Collective Labour Agreement since he'd* was last in Employment. Wisi he/she retires, he/she will stop accruing Credited Sendee ucuSa- the Pension Plan.
2jS Twad Permanent Pliability Retirement
2AI Toni md Pmumal Disability Retirement Date A* Employee who:
(a) becomes Totally and Permanently Disabled while in Employment or while accumulating senioritywith the Employer since he/she was last in Employment, and
(k) has completed 10 or more years of Continuous Service, but has not reached his/her Keemal Retirement Date, at the time he/she becomes Totally and Permanently Disabled,
any retire on disability retirement,
GDYKCOU.
Ooaha, 2002	• 11 ■	Eligibility for Retirement
Application for a disability pension must be made within one year following the end of 52 weeks of weekly indemnity benefits.
The pension will be payable while the Employee remains Totally and Permanently Disabled, as described in Article 4,
2.6.2	Total and Permnent Pliability. Retirement Tension
Upon disability retirement, the pension will be calculated in the same manner as for a normal retirement. This calculation will be made in accordance with the Pension Plan's provisions at the date of the Employee's application for disabilityretirement.
2.6.3	Medical Examination	1
An Employee applying far disability retirement oraPensioner on disability retirement is required to undergo a physical examination whenever such examination is requested by the Employer. In the case of a Pensioner, the Employer will not request more than two examinations in any calendar year.
A disability pension will not be payable without certification by a medical doctor licensed to practice under provincial law that the Employee is Totally and Permanently Disabled.
Fan Employee cr Pensioner refuses to submit to such physical examination, the application for* or payment of, the disability retirement pension will be suspended until he/she does submit to such examination.
2.6.4	Recovery
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 12 -	Eligibility for Retirement
If a Pensioner ceases to be Totally and Permanently Disabled or engages in any work similarto the work covered by the Bargaining Unit before he/she reaches his/her Normal Retirement Date, the Employer may terminate his/her disability retirement and rehire him/her in a position reflecting his/her seniority and physical and mental ability.
Upon his/her return to work, his/her seniority and service will be reinstated.
2.7 Maximum Basic Pension
In accordance with the Income Tax Act, notwithstanding any other pro vision of the Pension Plan, the benefits payable on behalf of an Employee, on an annual basis excluding any Supplementary Pension payable under the Pension Plan, but including any payments to a Spouse or ex-Spouse as a result of a marital breakdown, upon retirement, termination of Employment or termination of the Pension plan, shall not, in the year of pension commencement, exceed the lesser of:
(a)	the defined benefit limit for the year ofcommencement, and
(b)	2% of the Employee's highest average compensation, indexed to the year of
commencement,
multiplied by the number of years of the Employee's pensionableservice,
Fttr tbe purposes of this Section2,7, an Employee shall not be credited with more than 35 yew of pensionable service for Employment prior to January 1, 1992 and the terms "defined benefit limit", "highest average compensation" and "pensionable service" shall
GDYRCOLL
October. 2002	- 13
Eligibility for Retirement
have the meanings ascribed to them under the Income Tax Act.
2.g Maximum Bile and Supplementary Pemlon
In accordancewith the Income Tax Act, notwithstanding any other provision of the Pension Plan, in respect of pensionable service from January 1, 1992, the sum of the annual Basic Pension and any Supplementary Pension payable to an Employee under the terms of this Pension Plan or any other registered pension plan in which the Employer participates (including any registered pension plan in which any other employer with whom the Employer does not deal at rum's length participates) shall not, in the year of commencement, exceed the sum of
the defined benefit limit for the year of commencement multiplied by the Employee's pensionable service; and
(b)	25% ofthe average of the Year's Maximum PensionableEamings under the Canada
Pension Plan for the year of commencement and the two immediately preceding years multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the Employee's pensionable service (not exceeding 35 years) accrued after December 31, 1991 and the denominator of which is 35,
QDYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 14 •	Eligibility for Retirement
For the purposes ofthisSection2,8, theterms "defined benefit limit", "pensionable service" and "arm's length1' shall have the meanings ascribed to them under the Income Tax Act and "pensionable service" shall refer to Credited Service under this Pension Plan and pensionable service under any other registered pension plan in which the Employer participates (including any other registered pension plan in which any other employer with whom the Employer does not deal at arm's length participates) which is not already included in Credited Service.
2.9	Maximum Supplementary Pension
The Supplementary Pension shall conform with the Income T£x Act's requirements concerning the amount of bridging benefits provided under a registered pension plan and the payment of bridging benefits under two or mace registered pension plans in respect of related employers,
110
I Pension
Tst Employer may, from time to time, grant an additional pension to a Pensioner who has »st fce cfrgibility conditions specified in Schedule 1, For the purposes of this Section and iidueiok i the amount of such pension shall be referred to as "Additional Pension".
la m O' ea shall an Additional Pension granted In a given year exceed the pension payable Sa a NnriDWT at the date the pension commences multiplied by the cumulative increase in Price Index (as published by Statistics Canada under the authority of the Acs.) from the month in which the pension commenced to the beginning of the . ymaa wtada tfas Additional Pension is granted.

- IS ■
Eligibility for Retirement
ARTICLE3
DEDUCTIONS
3il	Inter-Plan T ransfers
3.1.1	Eligibility
This Section applies to an Employee who ceases1 to be an Employee and transfers membership to another pension plan maintained by the Employer (referred to as a "successor plan").
3.1.2	Calculation ot'Penslon
If the successor plan recognizes Credited Service under this Pension Plan for benefit calculationpurposes, a deduction will be made from the pension payable under this Pension Plan.
Ifthe Employee terminates his/her Employment) retires or dies underthe successor plan, the deduction will be the amount of any non-contributory Basic Pension and Supplementary Pension provided by the successor plan in respeci of Credited Service under this Pension
i
Plan. This amount will be determined as of the date of termination, retirement ordeath,
In the ease of a' Pensioner on disability retirement, the deduction will not reduce the total Basic Pension and Supplementary Pension from this Pension Plan to less than $60.00 per month.
GDYRCOLL
October; 2002	. 16 .	Deduction*
>.1.3 SubsequentTranifer
If (he Forma-Employee transfers again to mother successor plan instead, the deduction will be calculatedin a manna-consistent with SsctLcn3.1.2, taking account of the impact of any consolidation of pensionable service arising from all previous tensfas.
3.1.4 CniUtlona for Calculation
For the purposes of this S3±bn 3.1, the benefits payable under the different pension plans will be measured on a comparable,consistent basis.
GDYHOOLL
Qm*m.20(U	- 17 -	Deductions
ARTICLE 4
PAYMENT OF PENSIONS
4.1	Net Amount Payable
No Employee, Former Employee or Pensioner shall be entitled to & pension under the Pension Plan, except as expressly provided in this Article 4, Only the net amount of any pension, after making all the deductions which are provided for in Article 3, shall be payable.
4.2	Commencement Date for Basic Pension
4.2.1	Normal Retirement Commencement Date
If an Employee retires on his/her Normal Retirement Date, the Basic Pension will commence on the Pensioner's Normal Retirement Date.
4.2.2	Regular orSpecialEarly Retirement Commencement Date
If an Employee retires under the regular or special early retirement rules, the Basic Pension will commence on the first day of the month coincident with or next following hi&iher termination of employment. The retiring Employee may choose to have the Basic Pension commence on the first day of any subsequent month. The Basic Pension may not commence later than the end of the calendar year in which he/she attains age 69 or such later age as permitted under the Income TcK Act.
ODYRCOLL
Oct October, 2002	- 18 -	Paymentsof Pensions
4-2 J DinblUty Retirement Commencement Dste
If tn Employee retires under the disability retirement rules, the Basic Pension will commerce* on the first day of the month next followingthe latest of:
(*) the date when the Pensioner files proper application with the Employer,
<b> the date when the disabilityretirement commenced,
(c)	the date when his/her pay stopped,
(d)	the date when weekly indemnity stopped under the Health and Life Insurance Agreement.
A2A Cswairacemept D»te for Deferred Vested Pensions
A deferred vested pension will commence on the Former Employee's Manual Retirement The Forma Employee may choose to have the deferred vested pension commence on •e fust day of any earlier month coincident with or following his/her attainment of age 55, tf hofcbe does, it will be reduced as described in Section 6,3, The pension may not nmurnrc later than the end of the calendar year in which he/she attains age 69 or such bm as permitted under the Income Tx Act.
GDYBOOLL
OnOnofccr. 2002	- 19 -	PaymentsofPensions
4.3	Normal Form of Payment for Basic Pension
This Section appliesunless the Pensioner has sleeted the optional form in Section4,6 or the automatic spouse option in Section4,4 applies.
The Basie Pension is payable for the Pensioner's lifetime, If a Pensioner dies before 60 monthly payments have been irate, the balance of these Basic Pension monthly payments will be paid to hidher Beneficiary or, if he/she does not have a Beneficiary, to hither estate.
4.4	Automatic Spouse Option for Basic Pension
If a Pensioner has a Spouse at hidher Pension Commencement Date, the automatic form of pension payable shall be thejoint and survivor type of annuity. The Basic Pension payable under this automatic spouse option will be reduced to the Actuarial Equivalent of the amount payable in the normal form. Under this pension, 60% of the pension payable to the Pensionerwill continueto the surviving Spouse if the Pensioner dies before, hidher Spouse.
4.5	Waiver of Spouse Option
An Employesor Forme' Bmployee and hidher Spouse may waive the entitlement to the
automatic spouse pension iy Sling an appropriate waiver as required under the Pension
Benefits Act.
In the case of a waiver, the normal form of payment will apply unless another form is elected.
The waiver must be provided tothe Employer before the Pension Commencement Dfc.
GDYRCOLL
Oct October, 2002	- 20 -	Payments of Pensions
4.6	Optional Forma of Payment for Basic Pension
4.6.1	Eligibility
Subject to any waiver required, an Employee may elect in writing an optional form of pension payable on his/her normal retirement.
The election must be submitted to the Employer before the Employee's 65th birthday and must be accompanied by evidence of good health satisfactoryto the Employer.
4.6.2	Options
The Employee may elect that his/her Basic Pension be paid for his/her lifetime, with a guarantee that it will be paid for at least 10 or 15 years regardlessof when he/shedies,
The Basic Pension (before deductions) will be reduced to the Actuarial Equivalent of the Bask Pension in the normal form.
4.6.3	Revocation of Option
All Elfiplflyfifi may IWdks his/her election of an oplional Cbrm Si writing at any time before haiflicr retirement, but may not thereaftermake another election.
GDYRCOLL
Oct October, 2002	- 21 -	Paymentsof Pensions
4.7	Payment ofSupplementary Peailon
A Supplementary Pension is paid for the same months as the Basic Pension, except that the Supplementary Pension stops after the month in which the Pensioner dits or the Statutory BenefitDate, whichever occurs first.
4.8	Small Payments
The Employer may adopt such procedures as it shall find convenient with respect to the payment of pensions where the annual amount payable at Normal Retirement Date is less than 2% of the Yearly Maximum Pensionable Earnings under the Canada Pension Plan in the year in which the earliest of termination, death or pension commencement occurred, or such other amount as may be prescribed under the Pension Benefits Act and Income Tax Act. The Employer may pay' any such pension quarterly, annually or by lump sum payment, which is of Actuarial Equivalent value.
4.9	Pensioner UnableTo Care For Hls/Hcr Affairs
If the Employer finds that any Pensioner is unable to care for his/her affairs because of illness or accident, any payment due (unless a Prior claim therefor shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian, committee or other legal representative), may be paid to the spouse, a child, a parent ora brother or sister, or to any person deemed by the Employer to have incurred expense for such Pensioner. However, the ’Employer shall endeavour to give effect to the wishes of the Pensioner in this respect when such wishes shall have been expressed in writing by him/her before he/she shall have become unable to care for his/her affairs. Any such payments shall be a payment for the account of the Pensioner, and shall be a completedischarge of any liability under the Pension Plan in respect of the Pensioner.
GDYRCOLL
Oct October, 2002	• 22
Payments of Pensions
4..W' ?<—-Actuation of Benellti
; tie pensions payable under the Pension Plan shall he deemed diratay and for the pmnaiJ use of the Pensioners and, to the fijllest extent permitted by the applicable laws, .bad tot be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, ■cap: as security, encumbrance, surrender or charge, or to attachment or legal process for ddbtt of Employees, Former Employees or Pensioners.
*ii Crtfit Setittinz
Mans ac order from a court of law having jurisdiction or a valid written domestic contract ius ban received by the Employer requiring division of an Employee's benefits under the Urn due to breakdown of marriage or dissolution of a common-law relationship, such drewsoq shall be made in accordance with such order or contract, as determined by the Employer, and subject to any requirements prescribed under applicable law. Any necessary mfriwmirm shall be made to the Employee's benefit entitlementunder the Plan.
Ill Dtolslrtrt Life Expectancy
Xofusthsttnding the locking-in provisions of the Plan and the provisions of Section 4,10, if a Former Employee who is entitled to a vested pension under the Pension Plan or a foustooer provides proper medical evidence to the Employer from a physician licensed to pnobet in Canada that his/her life expectancy has likely been shortened by reason of disability cr illness to less than two years, the Employer shall permit payment of the aciuaria] present value of the Former Employee's or, Pensioner's benefit in a lump sum.. Vm payment is subject to the Employer's receipt of either the Former Employee's dr
GDYRCOLL
Oa October, 2002	- 23 -	Payments of Pensions
Pensioner's statement attesting to the fact that he/she does not have a Spous? at the date of application or the Spouse's consent to the withdrawal from the Pension Plan signed by the Spouse not more than 60 days prior to the Employer's receipt, all as required under the Pension Benefits Act. Upon payment of the entire lump sum, the Former Employee or Pensioner, as the case may be, will have no further entitlement under the Pension Plan.
GDYRCOLL
I
Oct October, 2002	- 24 -	Paymentsof Pensions
ARTICLE 5
BENEFITS ON DEATH BEFORE RETIREMENT
5.1	Death Benefit
5.1.1	Eligibility
The surviving Spouse of a qualifying Employee a- Foma- Employee who dies will be entitled to a death benefit.
A qualifying Employee a- Former Employee is one who:
(a)	completed two or more years of Continuous Service a- reached his/her Normal Retirement Date. and
(b)	dies before commencing to receive a pension under this Pension Plan and before a transferof benefits under Article 6.
$.1.2 Awowt and Payment	1
Under the death benefit, die Spouse is entitled to either:
(a)	a lump sum payment of (he Commuted Value of file post-1986 pension determined under Section 6.2, or
GDYRCOLL
OttOctober, 2002	- 25 -	Benefits on Death
an immediate or deferred pension based on the Commuted Value of the post-1986 pension determined under Section 6,2, Apy such deferred pension will commence before the end of the calendaryear in which the Spouse attains age 69 or such later age as permittedunderthe IncomeThx Act.
5,1,3	Other Conditions
The election of a death benefit under (a) or (b) must be made within the required tine period under the Pension Benefits Act. If the election is not made a pension will be payable to the Spouse.
If there is no surviving Spouse, then the death benefit will be paid to the designated Beneficiary, or if there is none, to the estate of the Employee or Former Employee, in a lump sum payment.
5,2	Spousal Waiver
The Spouse of an Employee or Farmer Employee may waive the entitlementto the benefits under Section 5,1 by filing an appropriate waiver as required under the Pension Benefits Act. ]h the ease of a waiver, the benefits will be paid to the designated Beneficiary, or if there is none, to the estateoftheEmployeeorFormer Employee, in a lump sum payment.
GDYRCOLL
Oct October, 2002	- 26 -	Barfiison Death
ARTICLE 6
TERMINATION BENEFITS
6.1	Deferred Vested Pemlon After Ten Year*
6.1.1	EdribUlty
A deferred pension will be payable underthis Section 6,1 where an Employee:
(aj has his/her services with the Ehplcyar terminated on or after the Effective Date for reason other than death, disability or retirement, and
(b)	has completed 10 or more years of Continuous Service.
6.1.2 Amount
The deferred pension is calculated in the same manner as for a normal retirement, except that no Supplementary Pension is payable.
61 Deferred Vested Pension Before Ten Years
611 EBribBHy
A deferred pension is payable under this Section 6,2 where an Employee:
(») has his/her services with the Employer terminated on or after the Effective Date for
GDYRCOLL.
October, 2002	- 27 -	Termination of Benefits
reason otherthandeath, disabilityor retirement, and (b)	has completed two ormore years, but leas than 10 years, ofContinuousService,
6.2.2 Amount
The deferred pension is calculated in the same irErretras for a normal retirement, except that it is based only on his/her participation in the Pension Plan since January 1, 1987 and no Supplsnentary Pension is payable.
6.3	Early Commencement of Deferred Vested Pension
The deferred pension will commence on the Former Employee's Normal Retirement Date or the Former Employee may elect to have the deferred pension commence on the first day of anymonth on or after his/her 55th birthday.
A pension commencing before the Normal Retirement Date will be reduced to the Actuarial Equivalentof the pension payable atNormal Retirement Date.
6.4	Alternative Settlements
An Employee whose services with the Employer are terminated and who is entitled to a deferred pension but who has not reached age S5 may, instead of receiving pension payments from the Pension Plan, request the Employer to transfer the Commuted Value of the pension to:
(a) another registered pension plan if the adranistmbarof that pension plan agrees to
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 28 -	Termination of Benefits
accept the payment,
(b)	a company authorized to carry on a life insurance business in Canada for the purchase of a life annuity to commence no earlier than age 5 5, or
(c)	a locked-in Registered Retirement Savings Plan, or other retirement income arrangement as permitted under the Pension Benefits Act and Income Tax Act.
Notice of the election must be given to the Employer within the time limit under the Pension Benefits Act. The transfer must be carried out in accordancewith the requirements of the Pension Benefits Act and the Income Tax Act,
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employer may, in its discretion and subject to the terms imposed by the Employer, permit a Former Employee who is entitled to a deferred vested pension and who has not reached the age of 55 years to request a transfer of the Commuted Value after the expiration of the time period provided under the Pension Benefits Act. Such Employer discretion may also be exercised for those Former Employees whose employment terminated prior to the Effective Date, who have not reached the age of 55 years, and who remain entitled to a deferred vested pension under the Pension Plan which has not commenced to be paid, Any such transfer must be carried out in accordancewith
the requirements of the Efensicn Benefits Act and the Income Tax Act.
6.5	Re-employment
If a Pensioner is re-employed by the Employer, upon subsequentretirement, the pension will be resumed in an Actuarial Equivalent amount to account for the period of suspension ad payments received prior to re-employment,
*
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 29 -	Termination of Benefits
Further, the Pensioner will receive an additional amount of pension based on his/her ' Credited Service ftom his/her date of re-employment However, the Credited Service maximum for calculation of a normal retirement pension will be based on the Pensioner's total Credited Service both before and after re-employment
6.6 Termination Before Effective Date
All deferred vested pensions are calculated in accordancewith die Pension Plan's provisions at the time of an Employee's termination of employment
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 30 -	Termination of Benefits
ARTICLE 7
BENEFICIARY
7.1	Pwlputkin of 8ea»flclarv
(a) Subject to the provisions ofthis Section, an Employee or Former Employee who is cr may become eligible to receive a monthly Basic Pension under this Pension Plan may designate a Beneficiary or a new Beneficiary to receive the payments, if any, to be made under this Pension Plan after his/her death. An Employee or Former Employee who has designated a Beneficiary or anew Beneficiary pursuant to this Section 7.1 may revoke any such designation but such revocation shall not revoke any election of an optional form of pension.
<*» The right to designate or to revoke a designation of Beneficiary pursuant to (a) abobe is to be exercised by the execution by the Employee or Former Employee, and delivery to the Employer, of an instrument in Writing provided by the Employer.
(c)	Where an Employee or Former Employee has not made a designation under the provisions ofthis Section 7.1, any payments to be made to a Beneficiary with respect to him/her after his/her death will be made to his/her estate. No provision of the Pension Plan is to be construed as taking away any rights of such an Employee a: Forma Employee to direct how monies received by his/her estate are to be distributed or otherwise dealt with by his/her personal representatives,
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	• 31 -	Beneficiary
ARTICLE 8
ADMINISTRATION
8.1	Administrator
The Employer shall have the sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions of this Agreement for the operation and administration of the Pension Plan, including the responsibility to determine the methods and assumptions to be used in the calculation of any Actuarial Equivalent value, actuarial present value or Commuted Value.
8.2	Proof of Age
An applicant for pension or Pensioner shall prove his/her age by evidence satisfactory to the Employer.
8.3	Written Explanation
The Employer will provide a written explanation to each Employee of the terms and conditionsof the Pension Plan and amendments thereto applicableto him/her, together with an explanation of the rLcfrts and duties of the Employee with reference to the benefits available to him/her under the terms thereo f, and such other information as may be requ i red under applicable legislation, In addition, such information as may be prescribed by applicable legislationshall be provided to any other person entitledthereto.
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 32 -	Administration
8.4	Information to Union
The Union shall be furnished with such pertinent information as it may request from time to time concerning the operation and administration of the Pension Plan and benefits thereunder, insofar as it affects Employees, applicants for pension who are represented by the Union and Pensioners,
8.5	Records of Employer
The records of the Employer shall be presumed to be conclusive of the facts concerning the service, employment, non-employment, or disability retirement of an Employee, a Former Employee, Pensioner or applicant for a pension, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect.
GDYRCOLL
October.2002	- 33 •	Administration
>	ARTICLE 9
FINANCING
9.1	Pension Fund
The Employer shall establish and maintain, with the assistance of the Fund	a
PensionFund sufEcientto provide the pension benefits under tins Pension Plan, All monies in the Pension Fund shall be invested in accordance with the requirements of the Pension Benefits Act and Income Usk Act.
9.2	Employer Contributions
The Employer shall ma/resuch contributionsto the Pension Fund, as shall be recommended by the Actuary after taking into account, among other things, the assets in the Pension Fund, to provide lor:
(a)	the normal cost of benefits accruing under the Plan, and
(b)	the proper amortizationof any unfunded liability a: solvency deficiency,
all in accordance with the requirements ofthe Pension Benefits Act and Income IEk Act. Such Employer contributions shall be made within the time limits required by the Pension Benefits Act.
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 34 -	Financing
9_J Futovee Contribution!
No Employe* shall be required or permitted, during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, to make any contribution to or under the Pension Plan.
9A	0Ihnapnl from the Pension Fund
TV Pension Fund shall be used on proper authorization of the Employer to the Fund hbrager in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Plan to pay reasonable expenses of administration of the Pension Plan and Pension Fund and to pay such pensions as are pqraMe under the Pension Plan. No Employee or Former Employee shall have any right to apemkw, priorto his/her retirement, or any interest in any insurance company contract or Ml find which may be entered into or established for the purpose of providing pensions •Oder the Pension Plan.
W Eatriaw Payable Solely from the Pension Fund
The pensions which shall be payable in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Plan shad be paid solely from the Pension Fund, and each Employee, Former Employee or Pessacrar or other person who shall claim the right to any payment under the Pension Plan U be entitled to look only to the Pension Fund for such payment. No liability for the payees of pensions under the Pension Plan shall be imposed upon the Employer or the officers, directors, or stockholder of the Employer, save and to the extent to which the Bnptoyer shall fail to make the contributions due under Section?,2,
GDYUCOU.
j October. 2KB	• 35
Financing
9.6	Ovcrnavmcntsand Refunds
Subject tothe Pension BenefitsAct and the IncomeTax Act, and notwithstanding any other provision of the Pension Plan, contributions made under the Pension Plan may be refunded and benefit entitlements under the terms of the Pension Plan may be reduced, as appropriate, morder to comply with the Pension Benefits Act, IncomeTax Act and tarns of the Pension Plan or to avoid revocation of the registration of the Pension Plan,
9.7	General Provisions
The Employer shall not receive, at any time, any amounts from the Pension Fund, except suchamomls as may remain aftertermination of the Pension Plan and the satisfaction of all liabilities wder this Pension Plan and such amounts as may arise out of the variations in actual from expected actuarial requirements or as may arise in such other manneras may be permitted under the Income Tax Act and the Pension Benefits Act, which exception amounts shall revert to the Employer, subject to the approval of any applicable regulatory authorities.
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 36
Financing
ARTICLE 10 GENERAL PROVISIONS
10.1	Contributory Pension Plan
Any vested interests which the Employees have acquired in the benefits purchased by contributionsmade by or for them prior to the Effective Date, under the Employer's present Contributory Pension Plan, shall be preserved but, subject to the foregoing, the Employer shall have the right to amend or modify the said ContributoryPension Plan at any time and to discontinue it at any time,
10-2 Effect of Retirement
The service of any Employee who shall retire or terminate Employment shall cesse for the purpose of applying the provisions of any Collective Labour Agreement which now is, or henta fter shall be in effect between the Employer and the Union, except that if a person is rehired on cessation of his/her di sability ret i rem en t, he/she shall be credited with the service which he/she had at the time of his/her disability retirement and shall accumulate further service Ran the time that he/she starts to work after his/her rehire,
IOJ He Guru tee of Employment
The establishment of the Pension Plan shall not give any Employee any additional right to be (coined inthe Employment of the Employer; and all Employees shall remain subjectto discipline, discharge or layoff to the same extent as if such Pension Plan had not been put ■mo effect
GDYRCOU.	,
October. 2002	- 37 -	^General Provisions
10.4	Grievance Procedure
If any dispute shall arise between the Employer and an Employee, an applicant for a pension who is represented by the Union or a Pensioner with reference to eligibility, age, Credited Service or amount of pension, or as to his/her retirement by the Employer, such dispute may be taken up as a grievance under the grievance provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect, omitting however, all steps preceding presentation of the grievance to the Industrial Relations Manager of the plant. If any such grievance shall be tajcen to arbitration in accordance wilh such procedure, the arbitrator or Board of Arbitration, insofar as it shall be necessary to the determination of such grievance, shall have authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement and the Collective Labour Agreement. He/she or it shall have no authority to add to, or subtract from any provision in this Agreement, or to waive or fail to apply any deduction or any requirement of eligibility for benefit under this Agreement The decision ofthe arbitrator or Board of Arbitration on any grievance properly referred shall be binding upon the Employer, the Union, the Employee, applicant for pension, Pensioner or person concerned therein,
10.5	Dispute as to DUablUty
Ifany dispute shall arisebetweenthe Employerand any Employee, applicant for a disability pension who is represented by the Union, or person on disability retirement as to whether such person is, or continues to be. Totally and Permanently Disabled as defined in this Agreement, suchdisputeshsll be resolved as follows:
The Employee, applicant, or person on disability retirement shall be examined by a medical
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 38
General Provisions
ioetce appointed for that purpose by the Employer and by a medical doctor appointed for Sba purpose by the Union. If they shall disagree concerning total and permanent disability, the question shall be submitted to a tlriiri medical doctor selected by the said two medical doctors. The opinion of the third medical doctor, after examination of the Employoe, ^eiieact or person on disability retirement, and consultation with the other two medical doctors, shall decide such question and such decision shall be binding upon the Employer, das Union and the Employee, applicant or person on disability retirement or person ■taxemed therein. Any medical doctor appointed or selected as provided for herein must be legally licensed to practice medicine and the fees and expenses of the third nsdicaL doctor shall be shared equally by the Employer and the Union. If the dispute is as to »betber or when the Employee has become Totally and Permanently Disabled and the issswo made pursuant to this Section is that the Employee is Totally and Permanently DnaMed, betshe shall be deemed to have ban Totally and Permanently Disidsd. as of the commencement of continuous total and permanent disability.
onwou
OraabiT. TUXQ	- 39 -	. General Provisions
ARTICLE 11
TERM OF AGREEMENT
11.1	Submliiion for Approval
The Employer shall submit the Pension Plan to the relevant government authorities for the purpose of obtaining their approval of it. If, by the 1st day of August, 2003, the Employer has not all approvals under the Pension Benefits Act and tax approvals which it may deem necessary to establish that it is entitled to deduct the amount of its contributions to the Pension Plan as an expensebefore taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, or any other applicable tax laws as now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted, the Agreement shall not become effective. If the requirements of any such authorities shall necessitate any modifications or changes herein, the Employer will promptly notify the Union and the parties will meet within ten days thereafter for the purpose of negotiations regarding such modifications or changes.
11.2	Negotiations on Refusal of Approval
In the event of refusal or withdrawal of the approval referred to in Section 11.1 by the relevant government authorities after the 1st day of August, 2003, this Agreement shall termi nate on the effectivedate of such refusal or withdrawal, or upon the expiration of thirty days after the Employer shall first have been advised by such authorities of such refusal or withdrawal of approval, whichever is later. During such thirty day period, the patties will meet for the purpose of negotiating any modifications of changesrequired in order to obtain the approval of such authorities; provided, however, that the Employer during such thirty day period shall not be required to make any contributionsto the Pension Ptind, which it is not entitled to deduct as an expense before ba under the provisions of the Income IEk Act, and any other applicable tax laws as now in effect or hereafter amended or adopted.
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	• 40 -	Term of Agreemer
11.3	Application to Labour Relations Board
In the event of refusal by the Board of Directors of the Employer or by the relevant authorities to approve this Agreement on or befboB the 1st day of August, 2003, or in the event of the authoritiesrefusing to approve this Agreement or of their withdrawal after such date oftheir approval of this Agreement previously given, either the Union or the Employer may apply to the Ontario Labour Relations Board for permission to terminate any Collective Labour Agreement then in effect, and the other party shall join in such application. If subsequentto notice of termination of such Collective Labour Agreement, or subsequentto termination of this Agreement, the parties settle any difference between them, and this Agreement is reinstated or a successor Agreement is made, then such Collective Labour Agreement, if terminated, shall be reinstated to continue in full force until subsequently terminated according to its provisions as contained therein,
11.4	Amendment During Term
If at any time duringthe term of this Agreement it shall be necessary or appropriate to leaks a y revisions of this Agreement in crcfar to obtain or retain the approval referred to in Section 11,1 by the relevant authorities, the Employer may make such revisions retroactively or otherwise with the consent of the union. The making of such revisions tfull be the subject ofimmediatenegotiationsbetween the Employerand the Union, and in
such negotiations the Employer and the Union shall recognize that the Collective Labour
Agreement, then in effect, was executed in the expectation that this Pension Plan or one vhh adbatantially equivalent benefits, would be and remain ineffect during theteimofthis Agreement and of any renewal ofthis Agreement made prior tothe negotiations.
GOYROOU,
October, 2002	- 41 -	Term of Agreement
11.5 Requirement for Modified Pcnilon Plan
If the Employer is required by law to institute a contributory pension scheme or to modify or revise the Pension Plan to make it conform to future federal or provincial enactments dealing with minimum requirements of pension plans, the Employer iray make such modifications or revisions retroactively or otherwise so as to ensure that the aggregate of the benefits provided by this Pension Plan, as revised, together with any other pension plan it may be compelled to institute shall approximate in value and nature the pension and other benefits provided under this Pension ELan providing such revisions are made without additional cost to the Employer.
11,6 Duration of Agreement
(a)	Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect in respect of all benefits at least until the 26th day of April, 2005 and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives to the other party notice in writing of cancellation or of proposals for revision within a period of not less than two months nor more than three months prior to the termination date, the last day of the original period or of any extended period being referred to herein as the termination date.
(b)	If either party gives to the other a notice of cancellation in accordance vifh the provisions of (a) above, this Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice.
If either party gives to the othera notice ofproposals for revision in accordance with the provisionsof (a) above, the parties shall meet to considerthe proposed revisions within fifteendays a/lerthe date of delivery of such notice. If no agreement on the proposed revisions is reached by midnight April 26, 2005 or by midnight of any subsequent annual termination date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and
ODYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 42 -	Term cf Agreement
1
effect thereafter, subject to termination upon at least sixty days' written notice by eitherparty to the other given on or after the tamination date.
11.7	Amendment Not to Redact Accrued Benefits
La no event shall any revision to this Pension Plan reduce any benefits accrued to Employees, Former Employeesor Pensioners priorto the effective date of revision, except as may be permitted or required under the Pension Benefits Act or Income Tax Act.
I14 PaJ Settlement
This Agreement constitutes a full settlement of all retirement pension demands of the Union lor its duration, and during the term hereof or any renewal hereof, neither the Union nor its
representatives shall:
I
(a) make any demand that this Agreement be changed in any respect or terminated, or that > new Pension Plan be established for the Employees, or that the Employer contribute or pay any greater amount for pensions for the Employees than it is required to pay under the provisions of Section 9,2 h ereo for
|b» engage in, or continue to engage in, or in any manner encourage or sanction any strike or edser action which will interfere with work or production at the plants of .die .Employer forthe purpose of securing any such change, increase or termination,
[the last 75 days of the term of this Agreement or of any renewal thereof, lhe EnnH»’>er	not have any obligation to negotiate or bargain with the Union with
wtgmtwum); * fee miners referred to in (a)of this Section.
Term of Agreement
11.9	Termination of Plan
Termination of this Agreement shall not have the effect 0 f terminating the PensionPlan in respect of accrued baieEits, unless the Employer and the Union agree that the PensionPlan is lobe so terminated.
If this Pension Han is terminated, the benefits accrued to Han termination date and payable to Employees, Former Employees and Pensioners or their surviving Spouses cr Beneficiaries who have entitlements under the Pension Han shall be provided for in an equitable and suitable manner in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Benefits Act, Income UhK Act and the Pension Han, and subject to any agreement in force between foe Employer and the Union. If any assets remain after the provision for all accrued liabilities under foe Pension Han, such assets shall be dealt wfh in accordance with SsctLcn 9.7.
r
V
GDYRCOLL
October, 2002	- 44 -	Term of Agreement
SCHEDULE 1
INCREASESTO PENSIONS IN PAYMENT
Pursuant to Section 2,10, an Additional Pension payable in accordance with this Schedule 1 shall commence with the pension payment due on January 1, 2002 and shall be payable for the Pensioner’s lifetime, ceasing with the payment due on the first day of the calendar month immediately following the death of the Pensioner. However, where any Pensioner’s Basic Pension is required to be paid in the formofajoint and survivorpension (automaticspouse option), the Additional Pension payable on behalf of such Pensioner shall be paid in thejoint and survivor form on a reduced Actuarial Equivalent basis, The amount of Additional Pension granted to eligible Pensioners is set out below:
Commencement Date of Basic Pension	Monthly Additional Pension Per YearofCredlled Service
Before January I, 1984	$1.50
January I, 1984 to December 31,1986	$1.00
'January 1,1987 to December31,1990	$0.50
GDYRCOLL
October. 2002	.45.	SCHEDULE 1
SIGNED AND EXECUTED AT COLLINGWOQD, ONTARIO this ^ day o2003.
J. Cbamelot, InL Rep.
i^im)oinrBm»eiii»»W2<3«uwixx;