Collective Agreement
Dated: September 20,1991 Ending: Septembers, 1993 Between:
Waltec Plastics Division of Emco Limited
Midland, Ontario
And:
Amalgamated Clothing & Textile Workers Union CLC, AFL-CIO, Local 1476
Local 1476
00762 (04)
INDEX
Article
Page
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
General Purpose...................
Recognition and Coverage..........
Management Rights.................
Union Security and Check-Off......
Discrimination and Intimidation...
Union Representation..............
Grievance Procedure...............
Arbitration.......................
Discharge.........................
Strikes, Lockouts and Slowdowns , ...
Seniority.........................
Transfers and Job Postings........
Layoffs and Recalls...............
Leave of Absence..................
Notices and Announcements.........
Reporting Allowance...............
Technological Change..............
Company Recognized Holidays.......
Vacations with Pay.................
Wages..............................
Hours of Work and Overtime........
Employee Benefits.................
Safety and Health.................
Notification......................
Duration and Termination..........
Wage Appendix......................
Appendix "A1-Wage Schedule.........
Appendix “B" - Wage Schedule.......
Appendix “C” - Injection Department.
Letter of Intent..................
Requests for Vacations............
Agreement on Policy................
Letters of Agreement..............
1
2
2
3
4
5 7 9
11 11 1 2 14 18 22 25
25
26 28
32
33 36 43
46
47 47
49
50 55 60
63
64
65
66
r\rv-1
THIS AGREEMENT entered into at Midland, Ontario, as of the 20th day of September, 1 991
BY AND BETWEEN
WALTEC PLASTICS DIVISION OF EMCO LIMITED
located in Midland, Ontario (hereinafter referred to as "the Company")
- and -
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION CLC, AFL-CIO and its Local 1 476
(hereinafter referred to as "the Union")
Article 1
GENERAL PURPOSE
1.01	It is the intent and purpose <j)f this Agreement to assure sound and mutually beneficial industrial and economic relationships between parties hereto,to provide an orderly and peaceful means of conducting negotiations and resolving any misunderstanding or grievances, and to set forth herein the basic and full agreement between the parties covering rates of pay, wages, hours of work and other conditions of employment
1.02	The parties agree that neither employees nor employer should endeavourto limitthe production of an individual and that only in the progressively more profitable operation of the Company can the employees basically secure greater earnings and security
1.03	The parties agree that the above objectives can be better achieved by compliance at all times with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and by the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances
1
Article 2
RECOGNITION AND COVERAGE
2.01 The Company recog terms of this Agreement as agent for all employees of Emco Limited, Midland, Ont visors, persons above the sales staff, security guards the school year for not mo week, and homeworkers.
lizes the Union during the e sole collective bargaining Waltec Plastics Division of ario, save and except super-nk of supervisor, office and students employed during fe than twenty (20) hours a
th
rai
Work normally performed t' shall not be done by emplgii
Unit, except for students a$ defined above.
2.02 The word “employee used in this Agreement s employees in the Bargain except where the context
■y Bargaining Unitemployees ees outsidethe Bargaining
or “employees" wherever hall mean any or all of the ing Unit as defined above Otherwise provides.
2.03 Where the masculinb pronoun is used herein, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context applies.
Article 3
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01 The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to manage the business and direct the working force, including but not limited to the following
(a) To maintain ordersjndefficiency, andsetquality standards, enforce anc)formulate reasonable plant rules and regulation^, including fire and safety regulations
(b) To hire, layoff, classify, transfer, promote or discipline, suspend, discharge or demote for just
cause Subject to the right of the employee to submit a grievance in the case of discipline, sus-
pension or discharge
2
pension or discharge.
(c)	To schedule and change hours of work, to determineand change workas^ignments, to decide employee qualifications, andfo discontinue jobs.
(d)	To manage the industrial Enterprises in which the Company isengaged.deteiiminingthe products and materialsto be handled, processed and manufactured, the methods of manufacturing, the schedules, extension and limitations of operations, the kinds, numbers and location bf plants, machines and equipment to be used, the processes of manufacturing and the nature of itsl products.
(e)	The Union acknowledges that the Company hasandshall retainthesolerightand responsibility to subcontract work as long ab the action of subcontracting does not meanthat present employees will be laid off.
(f)	The Company agrees that (he above functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and the Collective Bargaining Rights of the Unioh.
Article 4
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
4.01	All new employees shall, as a oondition ofemploy-ment, pay a Local Union initiation fee-This initiation fee shall be the first two hours pay of thenewemployeeand shall be remittedto the Financial Secretary of the Local.
An employee who has been retired shall not be required to pay a new initiation fee qnless he has been out of the employ of the Company for more than two (2) years.
All employees upon completion of their probationary period shall, as a condition of employment, pay union dues, or an amount equivalent to union dues, which will be the amount prescribed by the Constitution of the Union, the first such payments to be considered the International Union initiation fee.
- 3 -
These dues or the equiw the second pay period of so deducted shall be remiti Central Ontario RegionalC: 700, Don Mills, Ontario,M3 shall be considered as a dli
’alent shall be deducted from ach month and the amounts ted monthly by cheque to the Office, 15 Gervais Drive, Suite 1Y8, whose receipt thereof scharge to the Company for
the amount so deducted.
4.02 Employees who are, Agreement become mem condition of continued em remain members in good
or who during the term of this tiers of the Union shall, as a aloyment with the Company, standing of the Union.
4.03 The Company will original remittancetothe U namesfrom whose pay sue subsequent remittance tt Union with a statement permanent employee froit'i made and the reasons then
at the time of making the nion, specifiy the employees’ ih deductions were made. For e Company will supply the showing the name of each n whom no deduction was eof.
4.04 The Union shall inde harmless from any claims, si and from any form of liabi lity
Imnify and save the Company ,uits, judgements, attachments, as a result of such deductions.
Art cle 5
DISCRIMINATION AND INTIMIDATION
5.01 It is agreed that theii coercion or intimidation by tfi the Union or its officers or m because of his activity, or I: non membership in any po zation or because of race, status, nationality, ancest
re will be no discrimination, e Company, the Management, embers agai nst any employee ick of activity, membership or itical, labour or Union organised, colour, age, sex, martial or place of origin.
5.02 It isfurther agreedthat there shall be nosolicitation of members, collection of dues or other Union activities
4
on the premises of the Company except as permitted by this Agreement It is understood that no meeting of the Union or its members shall be held on the premises of the Company, nor shall any of itsactivities be so held at anytime without priorwritten apprqval of the Company
5.03	The Union agrees that under no circumstances will contractual or supervisory maintenance personnel, to maximum of four(4), or contractual security guards, to a maximumoffour(4), be prevented from having free and unmolested entrance to, and departure from the plant, forthe purposeof performing theirquties The Company agrees that under no circumstances will the above mentioned personnel perform production work
5.04	It isfurtheragreed that any erriployee who violates any of the provisions of this Article maybedisciplined by the Company
Article 6
UNION REPRESENTATION
6.01	The Company recognizestheiright of the Union to elect, appoint, orotherwise select aBargaining Committee of not more than five (5) me mbersofthe local Union, who have at least one (1) year's service with the Company. This Committee will be the Bargaihing Committee for negotiations.
The Union Executive will act asaGrievance Committee. A maximum of five (5) will act as a Grievance Committee.
6.02	The Union will elect or appoint and the Company will recognize the number of Shop Stewards from each of the following department groups as indicated:
(a) Compression	-three (3)
(b)	Finishing	- one < I FJer Shift
(c)	Injection	-three (3) Per Plant
(d)	Materials Handling-one(1) Per Plant
(e) Plant Services	-one(1)- Heritage Plant
- 5 -
(e) Plant Services	— two (2) - Crown Plant
(f) Plating	— one (1) Per Shift
(g)	Quality Assurances — one(1)
In the event that a departure reduces the number of shifts worked, the departmental Union Steward of the shift eliminated will be considered as having the most seniority, subject to Article 13.05, while remaining in the department as a Union Steward (not to exceed the present elected term).
6.03	The Union shall not'fy the Company in writing of the names of the Union St:'?wards and the departments or group of departments '?ach represents, and of any changes in the personnel °f the Union Stewards before the Company shall be retired to recognize them.
6.04	It is mutually agreedthat the employees shall not be eligible to serve as Stewards until they have at least one (l)year’s service withithe Company.
6.05 It is understood thajt regularworkto perform on it is necessary to service hours they will not cease permission of their superv i be unreasonably withheld, work they will report to th(;
Union Stewards have their behalf of the Company, and if a grievance during working their work without obtaining sor. Such permission will not When resuming their regular 3ir supervisor.
6.06	The Grievance Committee and Union Stewards shall be allowed reasonable time off to investigate grievances and to attend ;meetingswith management, and shall be compensated for time spent during working hours at their straight time hourly rate. Any abuse of such privilege may be the subject of a grievance by the Company.
6.07	When an employee is disciplined the Unionofficial present shall be a Stewajrd in the department; if not available then a Steward bf their choice or a member of Executive who are then present. The parties agree the
provisions are directory. The Company agreesto advise its superviors to comply with the provision.
Article 7
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	Complaints and grievances Shall be adjusted as quickly as possible.
7.02	An employee who has a complaint or grievance shall present it to his supervisor witnin seven(7) working days of the date the employee 'was first aware or reasonably could have been award of the occurrence. The supervisor must give the employee his decision within two(2) full working days of receiving the employee’s complaint orgrievance.The departmental ShopSteward may accompany the employee when presenting his complaint or grievance.
7.03	If the supervisor’s answer given the employee in clause 7.02 was unsatisfactory, the grievance will be taken up in the following sequence and manner. Forms for this use are to besupplied by the Union and approved by the Company.
Step 1
The written grievance, signed by the grieving employee and by the Steward of the department involved, will be presented to the supevisor of the department within four (4) full working days of the supervisor’s decision in clause 7.02. The supervisor will give written decision to the departmental Shop Steward within four (4) full working days of receiving the written grievance. The grievance will be considered settled unless Step 2 is taken within four (4) full working days following the written decision given by the supervisor in Step 1.
Step 2
Thewritte n grievance will be submitted by the Grievance - 7 -
Committee to the Plant Manager or his representative. The Plant Manager or hislrepresentative will give his written decision totheGrievance Committeewithin four (4)full working days of receiving the written grievance.
~ 3rievance,will baconsiclerad settled unless StepSis n within four (4) tun working days fdlfowing the
written decision given by! the Plant Manager or his representative in Step 2.
Step 3
The written grievance, irjicluding copies of the submissions and decisions made under the preceding steps, will be submitted to the General Manager. The General Manager will give his writte n decision to the Grievance Committee within five (5) full working days of receiving the written grievance. If the General Manager is not available, the parties may mutually agree to extend the normal five (5) day time period or accept the General Manager's nominee. The grievance will be considered settled unless timely request for Arbitration, as provided in Article 8 of the Agreement is made following the written decision of the General Manager or his nominee in Step3.
7.04	A representative of Ihe International Union may be present at any of the proceedings under Step 2 or 3 above, at the request of either party.
7.05	Anydifferenceorgriejance arisingdirectlybetween the Company and the Union maybe submitted inwriting by either party at Step 2.
7.06	When a group of employees from more than one department has a complaint or grievance, it shall be first taken up under Step 2.
7.07	Any adjustment arising out of the settlement of an employee's grievance, or the grievance of a group of employees, underthe grievance orarbitration procedure shall not be made retroactiive prior to the beginning of
- 8 -
the pay period immediately preceding thedateonwhich it was first presented thereunder in writing by the employee or the group of employees concerned The above restriction on retroactivity will not apply to payroll grievances.
7.08	The Union acknowledges that probationary employees may be dismissed by the Company, and that such dismissal shall not be the subject of a grievance.
Article 8 ARBITRATION
8.01	FailingasettlementundertheCSrievance Procedure, the matter indispute may betakentoarbitration, provided that if no written request is received within fourteen (14) calendar days afterthe final decision isgiven underthe grievance procedure it shall be deemed to have been finally, completely, and satisfactorily settled.
8.02	When either party requests arbitration as hereinabove provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement and, at the same time, nominate an arbitrator. The notice shall state the matterat issue and shall sjate in what respect the Agreement has been violated or misinterpreted by reference to the specific clause or clauses relied upon. The notice shall also state the nature of the relief or remedy sought. The party so notified shall appoint their arbitrator within ten (10)working days of such notice.
The two(2) arbitrators so nominatedshall meetwithin ten (10) working days, and if within five (5) further full working days they fail to settle the gjrievance, they shall attempt to select by agreement a third person who shall act as impartial chairman of the Arbitration. If they are unable to agree on the choice of sudh a chairman within seven (7) calendar days, then the Ministerof Labourfor the Province of Ontario shall be asked to name a chairman of the Arbitration Board.
9
8.03	No person may be appointed as an arbitratorwho
has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
8.04	No matter may be s has not been properly c required steps of the grie
8.05	The proceedings of expedited by the parties majority of such board sh the Company, Union and
8.06	Each of the parties h the arbitrator appointed by equally bear the expenses, Arbitration Board.
bmitted to arbitration which rried through all previous tnce procedure.
i he Arbitration Board will be sreto, and the decision of a 11 be final and binding upon ployees concerned.
i^reto will bearthe expense of it, or for it, and the parties will if any, of the Chairman of the
8.07	The Arbitration Board shall not have any authority to make a decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
8.08	Any and all time I mits referred to under the grievance and arbitration procedures herein may, at any time, be extended by written agreement between the Company and the Union, j
8.09	In determining andPischarge or any other disciplinary grievance, the Boa'lS of Arbitration shall havethe authority to:
(a)	affirm the Company's action and dismiss the grievance;
(b)	set aside the penalty imposed by the Company, and restore the grievor to his former position with or without compensation; or
(c)	vary or alter the pe nalty imposed by the Company or make such other determination as the Board in its discretion may deem justified.
10
Article 9 DISCHARGE
9.01	A discharged employee shrill have the right to discuss their grievance with their Shop Steward in the Personnel office before leaving the plant. If an employee claims the discharge to be unjust, it shall be treated asa grievance if a written statement Of such grievance is lodged by the employee with the Plant Manager within two (2) working days after the employee ceases to work forthe Company. This grievance sh^ll betaken up under the Grievance Procedure, and Step 1 will be omitted.
9.02	Suchspecialgrievancesmay besettled underthe grievance or arbitration procedure by:
(i)	Confirming the management's action in discharging the employee.
(ii)	Reinstating the employee vyith full compensation fortimelost less such sums eaitned bytheemployee from the date of their dismissal to the date of their reinstatement.
(iii)	Or by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
Article 10
STRIKES, LOCKOUTS AND SLOWDOWNS
10.01	In view of the orderly procedures heresetoutfor settling grievances, the Company agrees that there will be no lockout of the employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strike, slow-dbwn, sit-down or any stoppage of work, or any other action either partial or complete, either by an individual employee or by a group of employees, which will in anyway disrupt the operations of the Company
11
Article 11 SENIORITY
11.01 For the first forty-five (45) days worked from the date of hire, newemployees will be considered probationary and not entitled to seniority. The forty^five (45) day probationary period will be extended by plant vacations, but not beyond a consecutive thirteen (13) week layoff or any occurence over which (he Company has no control.
day probationary period, as ew employees will not be ty be dismissed or laid off at any.
During the forty-five (45) outlined in this Article, n entitled to seniority, and m; the discretion of the Comb;
seniority established from employee's last hiring
department and plant wide
All seniority lists will she
Upon the expiration of the probationary period as outlined in this Article, new employees shall acquire seniority rights and be placed on the seniority list with
the first working day of the
11.02 The Company will provide the Unionwith updated
seniority lists every three(3)
months which shall be posted on a Company bulletin board for a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days.
1 the employee’s name and
date of employment as wel as the employee's status or job classification in the fol owing plant departments:
(a)	Compression
(b)	Finishing
(c)	Injection
(d)	Materials Handling
(e)	Plant Services
(f)	Plating
(g)	Quality Assuranc^i
(h)	Spray Painting The Spray Painting and Finishing Departmentswill be
administered asone department for all purposes except seniority, layoff and recall.
The Company agrees to continue to administer the Plant Service Department in the same manner as when
i2
the Tool and Maintenance sections were named as separate departments underthe Collective Agreement. Such practiceswillinclude, but not be limitedtoseniority and preference for vacation periods.
11.03	An employee shall lose all seniority if that employee:
(a)	Voluntarily quits the employ of the Company.
(b)	Is discharged by the Corrtpany and such discharge is not reversed through the Grievance Procedure.
(c)	Following a layoff of indeterminate period, on being notified by the Company by registered mail to the employee's last known Address, with a copy of the lettertothe President of Local 1476, fails to advise the Company within se\!en (7) calendar days of the date of the mailing of thqi registered letter, of the employee's intention to return to work Such return to work, unless otherwise agreed by the Company, for reasonable causjs, must be within two (2) working days of receipt of the original notice. <d) H as been laid off for more than twelve (12) consecutive months. I nthecageof employees with five (5) years' seniority or more, at the time of layoff, has been laid off for more than twentyfour (24) consecutive months; or, in the case of employees with ten (10) years' seniority or more at the time of layoff, has been laid off for more than thirty-six (36) consecutive months.
(e)	If absent without leave for two (2) complete working days. An employee is considered absent without leave if no report is mqde to the Personnel officeorthe employee's shiftsUpervisor bythe end of their regular shift. Legitimate reasons for failing to comply with the foregoing will be taken into consideration.
(f)	Followinga layofffora determined period,fails, without permission of the Coinpany, to report for
13
work on the date andl at the time specified at the time of layoff.
(g) Following a period of sick leave exceeding the authorized absence u ider Article 22.03 (e) (ii), fails to provide requested medical certification.
11.04 It shall be the duty Company promptly in writin telephone. If an employee will not be responsible for f^i employee.
of employees to notify the 3 of any change of address or ails to do this, the Company ilure of notice to reach such
11.05 An employee shall owing to absence through that the Company may reqil the form of a certified sp Medicine or Doctor of Ch was unfit for work on the
not suffer loss of seniority accident or illness provided ire proof of such absence in atement from a Doctor of ifopractic, that the employee qay(s) in question.
Artichel 2
TRANSFERS AND JOB POSTINGS
12.01 Definitions:
(a)	Atransferistherelctiationofaseniority employee to a permanent vaci^cy in the same or another department which rsisults from an employee applicatio^applicati^1 of seniority, or other reason. Requests by seniori'^ employees for change of shifts within a department shall not be considered as transfers and will dn 7 begrantedona“request if possible" basis.
(b)	A permanent vac® Ijcy is an opening within any classification of more nan thirty (30) days duration. A vacancy created b^ kn employee who is absent due to illness, injury,'[bcation or authorized leave of absence shall not “e considered a permanent vacancy.
(c)	A general worker. Ivel shall be considered as the lowest job classification in a department.
12.02	All permanent vacancies above the level of general workers, and newly created positions above the level of general worker in any department shall be posted for two(2) consecutive working days on aCompany bulletin board before permanently filling such vacancy. An employeedesiring such position must makeapplication in writing to the Personnel Department within two (2) working days from the initial timeiof posting.
Employees on leave of absencepf approved vacation will be considered for job vacancies or new positions above the level of generalworkerifapplication in writing is made to the Personnel Office Within forty-three (43) calendar days of the job vacancy, or within two (2) working days of return to work, whichever isthe shorter period.
I n the case of job vacancies at the general worker level in any department, a Courtesy Notice will be placed on the bulletin board so that applications from within the plant regardless of department may be considered. Such Courtesy N oticeswi I Iremain posted for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours. If the position is filled within forty-eight (48) hoursfromtime th& notice posted, it will be subject to change based oni further applications received for that period.
The Company will provide an answer to all applicants within ten (fOJworking days of thb notice removal.
The Company will notify the Union of the name(s) of the successful applicant(s) and place their name(s) on the plant bulletin board.
12.03	Employees wishing consideration for transfer must complete a Transfer Application provided by the Company and present it to the Personnel Department. Periodically, the Personnel Office will notify transfer applicants of the necessity to renew their applications. Failure to renew within seven (7) calendar day of this notice will invalidate a transfer application.
15
12.04 Transfer applicants time of a job vacancy. Trai department cannot be ac successfully transferred in Newly hired employees will until they have completed the Company unless therte applicants Further, transferal by the Personnel Manager(pi in view of the requiremen person selected will be the of the Company has the foil
(a)	Qualifications to
(b)	Ability to perform
(c)	Qualities of rejjabjli
will be considered at the rjsfer applicants for another pepted if they have been e preceding six(6) months, not be eligible for transfer six (6) months’ service with are no other successful pplicants will be interviewed r designate) and evaluated Is of the job vacancy. The oerson who in the judgment lowing:
perform the job.
1:he job.
Ity and responsibility.
by a member of the Union
(d) Seniority will govern if other requirementsare met
Should the Company NQ)T choose the most senior applicant from among prese nt Company employees, the following documentation must be available for inspection
Executive.
Written examinations taken by both the applicant refused the position and the applicant accepted, will be in each employee’s personnel file. Also any trade certification or recommendations will be filed along with the hiring supervisor’s written report on each person.
If the Union Executive representative wishes to inspect these documents it wili be done in the presence of the hiring supervisor and the Fersonnel Manager (or their designates) within seven (7] working days of the posted notice showing the successful applicant.
Any applicant with more (seniority than the applicant accepted, will havethe opportunity to discussthe refusal of their application and thp reasons thereof, with the Supervisor of the department doing the hiring in the
16 -
presence of the Personnel Manager (or designate) and the employee's Union Steward beforethe noticeshowing the successful applicant is posted.
None of the foregoing will preclude the Company going outside the Company for applicants if suitable applicantsare notavailableamongthe present employees
1 2.05 A transferred employee will retain the seniority of their former department or section for forty-five (45) calendar days, afterwhich time seniority will betransferred to the employee's new department.
12.06	Should a transferred employee prove unsatisfactory within a period of forty-five (45)calendar days of transfer, the employee will be returned to their former position and department. Iftheemployee’sformerposition in a particular group or shift has been filled, theemployee may be compelled to go into another group or shift where there is an opening. Further, the employee will be advised of reasons for unsatisfactory performance by the Supervisor of the department or section doing the hiring, in the presence of the Personnel Manager (or designate), and the employee's Union Steward.
12.07	Any seniority hourly employee transferring to the salaried staff of Waltec Plastics Division of Emco Limited will be on probation for three (3) calendar months. During this periodthetransferred employeewill remain a seniority Union member, pay Union dues and be subject to all terms of the existing Collective Agreement except the following:
(a)	Rates of pay.
(b)	Hours of work
(c)	Grievance procedures in regard to transfer
from salaried back to hourly.
If, during the three (3) month probation period the transferred employee found unsuitable, or if the employee elects not to continue with the salaried position, the employee will be returned to their former hourly position without loss of seniority.
17
If the employee has passed the salaried probationary period, but is still within twelve (12) calendar months of theo rigina I transfers nd if for any reasone it heron behalf of the Company or on behalf of the employee there is a need to move from salaried back to hourly, thee mployee will be given the opportunity to accept ajob which inthe judgment of the Company if> suitable to the employee's qualifications and ability in the Department employing the l east senior person inthe Company at that particular time. The employee will regain their seniority, including that time period while on Waltec Plastics Division of Emco Limitedsalaried staff. The least senior employee, then will be laid off.
If a seniority employee is permanently unable to perform their job due to health reasons that employee will be given the opportunity to transfer to another job classification in any department, conditional upon their ability to perform the new job satisfactorily in theo pin ion of the Company and upon his having greater seniority than the person he displaces. The least senior person in the departmentwould be laid off or given theo pportunity for other work if available. The employee making the transferwould retain seniority, butwould receive effective immediately, the wage rate of the new job.
Article 1 3
LAYOFFS AND RECALLS
13.01	Reductions of the work force will be carried out in accordance with the following procedure, provided in each case thatthe employees remaining inthedepartment arewilling andqualified to performthe workavailable In case of layoffs the Company will notify the employees involved as early as possible, but at the latest before the employee leaves the plant
(a) Inthe event of a layoff in a department which is not expected to exceed three (3) working days seniority provisions shall not necessarily apply in
18
determining the reduction of the work force How ever when time permits, the Company will endeavour to reducethe workforce accordingtodepartmental seniority
(b) In the event of a layoff which is expected to exceed three (3) working days upto and including six (6) weeks the following procedure will govern
(1)	In any department where a work force reduction is necessary,probationary employees will be laid off first
(2)	I f further reduction to the work force is necessary in a department regular employees will belaidoff in inversebrder of departmental seniority
13.02	In the event of layoff which is expected to exceed six(6) weeks, or in which mbre than six(6) weeks of posted layoff have been accumulated by an employee in a twelve( 12) month period in the employee's current department, the following procedure will govern
(1)	Employees who have at least one (1) year's seniority will be given the opportunity to temporarily transfer into the department which at the time is employing the least senior person inthe Company and if this action is taken, the least senior person will be laid off
(2)	This type of temporary transfer under layoff conditions is voluntary
(3)	If the job in the department which employs the least senior person in the Company happensto be a job that cannot be performed bythe person being laid off, the opportunity will pass to the department employing the next lowest ,Senior person in the Company
(4)	Pay scale of job to which employee transfers will apply immediately upon transfer
(5)	Once a regular employee with one (1) or more years' seniority elects layoff in lieu of temporary
19
transfer that employee return to work until rec employee’s original job (6) Applicants for temp' conditions must be cap required on the job to w Regular employees w and temporarily transl under layoff conditions days to reach an accei in their new temporary
shall not have the right to ailed bytheCompanytothat ' classification.
(7) Regularemployees transfer in lieu of layof original department a
orary transfer under layoff able of performing the work hich they expect to transfer. 10 exercise their seniority er to another department shall have five (5) working l))table level of performance classification or be laid off.
3	who have elected temporary 1 retain the seniority of their ^s well as carry this same seniority to the department in which they have temporarily transferred in the event of a further layoff.
(8) Regularemployees|who haveelectedtemporary transfer in lieu of layoff must return to their original job classification and department when there is an increase in the work force of their original department and their former position again becomes available.
(9) In the event of a layoff which is expected to exceed six (6) weeks; cjr accumulated six(6) weeks of posted layoff, employees with eight (8) years' seniority or more may elect to bump into any department employing a junior employee in any classification the more penior employee is qualified to perform.
An employee displaced as a result of this Article shall exercise their bumping rights.
13.03	When there is an indrease in the workforce, laid off employees will be recalled in order of seniority provided they are willing a id qualified to perform the work available. During periods of layoff seniority will accumulate subject to the provisions of Article 1 1.03.
20
13.04	No new employees will be hired until all laid off employees who are willing and qualified to do the jobs have been recalled, subject to all other provisions of Article 13.
13.05	Notwithstanding any of ttje provisions of this Article, members of the Shop Coifnmittee shall, in the event of a layoff or recall, be cons dered as having the most seniority in the department, apd shall becontinued atwork, if work isavailable, provided they are willing and able to perform whatever work is (hen available.
Departmental Union Stewards vyill be considered as having the most seniority on their respective shifts in their department Where more than one(1) Steward in a department is entitled to super seniority by virtue of 6.02 or 13.05, then seniority as between themselves will be determined bytheir relative position$onthe departmental seniority lists
The Shop Committee, under the provisions of this Article, shall include all Departmental Union Stewards and Officers of the Local Union Executive.
13.06	No seniority employee wi|l be laid off while a student remains employed, provided the employee is capable and willing to perform the job.
13.07	The parties agree that for purposes of layoff Technicians 1,2 and 3 with a minimumof one(1) years' seniority shall not be effected by such layoff until a seniority level of five (5) years is reached. For the purposeof recall, Technicians 1 an42 withaminimumof one (1) years' seniority shall be deemed to have five (5) years' seniority.
It is further agreed that in the event such employee may, provided he has greater seniority, elect to bump the least senior employee who's job he is qualified to perform in any department.
21 -
Article 14
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
/ sh
14.01 TheCompany maygrant pay to any employee for a leg; up to three (3) months. Any with written permission sha laid off, and their seniority during their absence.
To ensure fairtreatment o applications for leave of absei Department Manager, the pji General Manager.
leave of absence without itimate personal reason foi such person who is absen' II not be considered to be all continue to accumulate
the intent of this clause, al nee will be reviewed bythe ersonnel Manager, and the
14.02	Any leave of absejice shall be confirmed in writing, and no such leave|will affect any employee's seniority rights when used f(j)r the purpose granted. If an employee uses their leavei of absence for any other purpose than the purpose fbr which it was granted, he may lose his seniority.
14.03 TheCompanywillgri pay to a maximum of two (2)
int leave of absence without delegated Union members
to attend Union Conventions or Conferences for a maximum of ten (10) working days per year. Up to eight (8) additional working days leave of absence without pay
will be considered for the d they are members of the E
slegated Union members if xecutive Committee of the
Central Ontario Regional Office and are required to attend Regional Office meetings, providing such leave will not critically affect the operation of the department concerned. In both cases, the Company must be notified in writing at least seven (7) (Calendar days in advance of any requested leave of absence.
14.04 Bereavement Shoiuld a death occur in the immediate family (wife, husband, child, mother, father, sister, brother, father-in-lay or mother-in-law, grandparents, brother-in-law, sister-in-law of an employee or spouse), the Company will cjrant leave of absence for a
22
period of not more that three (3)! working days at the employee's basic hourly rate. Such leave of absence shall be granted provided:
(a) The employee hascomplteted his probationary period.
<b) The leave of absence is for the days of funeral, or interment, or mourning period.
Saturdays, Sundays, paid holiday days and paid vacation leave are not working days uncjer this clause. Paid holidays and paid vacation days used as bereavement leave must be taken in the first available working days the employee was originally scheduled to return to work In cases of deferred interment, th® employee can elect to defer bereavementday(s) until that time providedthe actual interment day is taken as bereavement leave and the Company is notified of the employee's intention. Should deferred interment take piqce on a weekend, the working day(s) nearestthe intermentday would betaken. "Common-law" relationships will W deemed to exist for purposes of this and other benefit clauses where an employee has filed an appropriate declaration no less than once per year.
14.05 Court Appearances If an employee is called for Jury Duty or subpoenaed by the Crown as a witness, the Company will pay the difference between the daily payandtheemployee's normalregularstraight time pay, for any day the employee would have normally worked. This will be exclusive of any tranportation costs or reimbursements The employee must supply to the Company, the necessary documents to verify reimbursements. If the employee reports for court appearances (referred to above) and then is released for the balance of the day, he will beexpepted to re port to work as soon as possible that day.
The Company will grant leave of absence without pay to an employee whose child of less that sixteen (16) years of age is subpoenaed by the Crown as a witness.
23
(Commencing September 2|0, 1992, this leave will be with pay.)
The employee's Supervisor must be notified at the time of Jury Duty notification orsubpoenaandthe usual written authorization signed
14.06 Union Officers will be granted time off without pay to attend Executive meetings of the Union Local provided that the meetings are scheduled so that the majority of Officers attending would not normally be on shift at that time. The Co any must be notified in writing at least seven (7) cal Jar days in advance of any requested leave of absenc
14.07	If an employee fail expiration of any leave gran have resigned unless excu
:o report for work at the d, he shall be deemed to by the Company.
14.08	The Company will gi absence to expectant father birth. Such leave of abseri employee's Supervisor must as much notification time written authorization signed.
14.09	Leave of absence w one(1) day, will begrantedto Union Steward, to attend th(-the Company.
rant three (3)days leave of s at the time of their child's ce will be with pay. The be notified in advance with iis practical and the usual
th pay, upto a maximum of theappropriatedepartment 3 funeral of an employee of
14.10	Leave of absence mjay be granted to delegated Union members to attend U n on sponsored safety and/or education seminars to a mc.ximum of ten (10) working days per employee per year, Leave of absence will not be refused unless it will critically affect the operation of the department involved.
24
14.11	All written requests for leave of absence to be answered within three (3) working days.
Article 15
NOTICES AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
1 5.01 All Union bulletins to be posted inthe plant must have priorapproval of both the local Union President(or Union authorized signing officer), and the Personnel Manager(or designate) These approved Union Bulletins shall only be posted on bulletin boards provided by the Company
Further, the Union agrees that it will not distribute any pamphlet, circular or petition in the Plant without prior approval of the Personnel Manager (or designate)
Article 1 6
REPORTING ALLOWANCE
16.01	Ifanemployee reportsforvyorkatthecommence ment of their usual shift and on time, they shall be entitledto a minimumnumberof hours pay equivalent to half of the employee’s regular shift at no less than their regular payroll rate unless notified previously by the Company not to report, either orajly or by notice on the bulletin board, or by message left at the employee’s residence provided that, if requested by the Company, the employeeshall performa minimum numberof hours equivalentto half of theemployee’s regularshiftof such reasonable alternate work as the Company may assign, and providedfurtherthat there shall be no such obligation on the part of the Company to pay any reporting allowance if the lack of work is occasioned by circumstances beyond the Company's control
16.02	If an employee is asked to come back to work after their regular hours, and if it is not an extension of their regular shift at the end of the regular shift, the
- 25 -
employee is entitled to “CA working any time up to two (2| straight hourly rate. Time w excess ot two (2) hours on “i the overtime provisions of Aifti If, for their own convenienc return later instead of exte considered normal overtime
LL-IN” pay. An employee hours at two (2) times the prked by an employee ir ALL-IN” will be subject tc icle 21.04.
The Union recognizes the <f the employee to work for the
16.03 If an employee is de Duty Roster for a weekend
3, an employee chooses tc riding their shift, it will be nstead of “CALL-IN”.
Jompany’s right to reques lull time paid on “CALL-IN”
signated on the Stand-bi or Company recognizee
holiday, the effected employee will receive two(2) houri pay per Stand-by day at the employee’s regular hourl\ rate.
The inclusion of an individu al’s name on Stand-by Duty Roster is voluntary. However once it is included it mus remain fora three(3) monthcycle. If anyone “trades-off a weekend, the posted list must be changed by Friday 10:00 am. at the latest by the p erson originally designatec for duty.
16.04 If an employee is cojntacted while on vacation and subsequently voluntarily agrees to work for any period during that vacation, they will receive 1 'k times their normal wage rate for that period. Also the equivalent time worked will be granted at a later date as regular vacation.
17.01	It is agreed that it is to the advantage of both the Company and the employees to utilize all possible technological variation, automation, and scientific improvements.
26
17.02	It is agreed that for the purpose of this Article, technological changes shall be defined as the effect upon employees of the permanent elimination of an operator or majority of an operators time brought about by majorchanges in machinery design. This, in noway, is to be interpreted in a manner whiph would prevent the Company from makingnormalimpripvementsandsavings through increased efficiency or establishing new work standards by altering or improvingthe productionmethods and efficiency of machinery or personnel, provided such acts are consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
17.03	The Company shall notify the Union not less than thirty (30) calendar days befqre the introduction of anytechnological change and shall endeavourto furnish all information necessary to an understanding of the proposed change and shall discuss with the Union methods of achieveing the change to ensure that the interests of the Company and the employees are fairly and effectively protected.
1 7.04 Inadditiontonoticeofseparation, anyemployee discharged by the Company as the result of technological changewill be eligible for a severance allowance on the basis of one(1) week's pay at their straight time hourly rate for each full year of seniority to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks' pay.
Severance pay will be paid to the severed employee each regular pay day until the maximum severance pay has been paid to the employee as explained in this clause. If the employee is rehired during the period that he is entitled to severance pay - severance pay will cease immediately on rehiring. If an employee is willing to accept another position in the department in lieu of severance, employees will be given this opportunity in order of seniority if such positions are available. If the employee accepts a new job in lieu of severance heshall then receive the rate of hisformerjobfor a period of one (1) week for each six (6) months of seniority with a maximum of thirteen 13)weeks and a minimum of three (3) weeks
27
17.05 In the event a technological change creates a job classification that immediately requires skilled employees the Company will have the right to hire skilled employees. If, however, a technological change creates a job classification whereby the Company has sufficient time to train present employeesforthis position, then the employees in the department will be given the opportunity, inorderofseniority,totrainforthe position, provided in the judgment of the Companythe employee
Po%re,?rS?me§<f8r?flenpi3lav'3^eneceSSaryqua^'Ca*'0nS
17.06 When a technologicjal change creates a new job classification the Company will set the rate of pay forthis job. If the rate is not satisfactory to the employee concerned it may become the subject of a grievance.
Article 1 8
COMPANY RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
18.01 The following days; are Company recognized holidays for the purpose of this Agreement:
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Eve (i) Christmas Day Boxing Day
jOne Floating Holday(ii)
(i) The day designated isthe day before Christmas unless that day is a Saturday or Sunday, then a day in the week following Christmas.
(ii) The floating holiday will be observed annually on a day to be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union. However, in the event the Federal Government legislated Heritage Day, the floating holiday will bp observed on the day so designated.
28
Christmas Shutdown Days 1991
December 24 — Tuesday- Christmas Eve
25	— Wednesday- Christmas Day
26	— Thursday- Boxing Day January 1 — Wednesday- New Year's Day
1 — Wednesday- Start up 1 1 00 p m
1992
Floating— Friday, June 26 Canada Day— Monday, June
December 24 — Thursday - Christmas Eve 25 — Friday- Christmas Day 28 — Monday- Ejoxing Day January 1 — Friday- New Year's Day
1993
Floating— Friday, July 2 Canada Day — Thursday, July 1
December 24 — Monday - Christmas Eve
25	— Tuesday- Christmas Day
26	— Wednesday - Boxing Day January 1 — Tuesday - Mew Year's Day
2 — Wednesday- Start up7 00 am
18.02	For all personnel, except injection, quality assurance, storekeeper and caretaker (when on twelve (12) hour shift, seven (7) day contiguous operation) the above Company recognized holidays will be paid for regardless of when they fall. Employees shall receive pay on the basis of their straight time hourly rate for the number of hours they would have worked if the holiday had been a normal work day
29
18.03	Forall personnel, except injection, quality assurance, storekeeper and caretaker, (when on twelve (12) hour shift, seven (7) day continuous operation) in the event of a paid holiday fallind on a Saturday, Sunday or during thevacation period, another day will bedeclared in lieu of the holiday.
18.04	Authorized work per/ rmed on a Company recognized holiday shall be paid rat two (2) times the basic straight time hourly rate of ^he i ndividual plus holiday pay, where applicable.
18.05	Inthecaseof injectic'Fi, quality assurance, storekeeper, and caretaker, (whe11 on twelve (12) hour shift, seven (7) day continuous ope fation), all Company recognized holidays have been tFaded off except Christmas Eve, Christmas, Boxing Day and New Year's Day. The above mentioned personnel will receive all Company recognized holidays, includi ig the above named, when the injection department clpses for Christmas holiday period.
Work performed by the abdve personnel on Company recognized holidays will be at two (2) times the basic straight time hourly rate, p us Weekend Premiums if applicable. This will apply the day the Company recognizes the holiday for the balance pf the plant.
The above personnel at (he time of the Christmas shutdown will be paid eifht (8) hours straight time holiday payforeach oftheC?pipany recognized holidays which have been included (4 their term of employment. Twelve (12) hour shift empl<wees who actually worked on a Company recognized holiday will be paid twelve (12) hours holiday pay instead of eight (8) on trade-off at Christmas	'
If an employee operating on the above schedule leaves the employ of the company for any reason he will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for each of the Company recognized holidays, during the term of his
30
employment, if the person has not already received holidaypayforthat day, and if he complied with the terms of Article 1 8,06.
Notwithstanding the above paragraph, if an employee was on the twelve (12) hour schedule and actually workedonaCompany recognized holiday,thatemployee, when leaving the Company for any reason, will receive twelve (12) hours straight time pay for each of the Company recognized holidays thpy worked during the term of employment, if that person has not already received holidaypayforthat day and if they comply with the terms of Article 18,06.
18.06	Employees shall not be eligible for Company recognized holiday pay if they:
(a)	Have not completed their probationary period.
(b)	Fail to work or complete the regular scheduled shift on the working day immediately prior to, and following the holiday, unless excused by the Company. When employee? are absent due to illness, accident, layoff,approved vacation, orbereave ment in the immediate family, provided evidence satisafactory to the Company is produced, then they shall be paid for any Company recognized holiday that arises. An employee will not lose holiday pay by being late on the shift before or after the holiday, as long as th^s lateness does not exceed one-half hour.
(c)	In any event, an employee must have worked within the three (3)week period immediately prior to the holiday, as well as the Shift on the day before the holiday, except if on approved vacation, and as referredto in paragraph (b) t<t> qualify for Company recognized holiday pay.
18.07	Any regular working day that is traded with a Premium Day by mutualagreement|jetween theCompany and the Union, shall be treated asia standard day for all terms of this Collective Agreemeht.
- 31 -
Any request for trade-of should be presented in writing to the Company by the Union Executive at least thirty (30) calendar days, o' shorter period by mutual agreement, priortothe requested change. Inthe event the Company requeststrade-off, the same notice period shall apply.
Articl
VACATIONS
l|e 19
WITH PAY
19.01 All employees who, (June 30th of any one year, have the number of years consecutive service outlined
in the following schedule sh
of weeks vacation and the percentage of annual earnings applicable thereto
ill be entitled to the number
Years of Seniority on June 30th Up to three (3) months Three (3) months but less than six (6) months Six (6) months but less than five (5) years Five (5) years but less than twelve (12) years Twelve (12) years but less than twenty (20) years Twenty (20) years and over
Vacation Time	Percent of Annual Earnings 4%
1 week	4%
2 weeks	4%
3 weeks	6%
4	weeks
5	weeks
8%
10%
Employees who are ent excess of vacation plant remaining vacation at the tintr the Company and the employee
tied to vacation period in shutdown shall have their e mutually agreed between concerned.
19.02	Total annual earmnps for vacation pay computation shall include the employee's total earnings inthe preceding twelve(12) montf|i period ending June30th of the current vacation year
32
Lost time from work, while receiving Workers’Compensation or Company Sick Benefit, shall be included inthe Annual Earnings upon which vacation pay iscalculated, as if the employee had received his full regular pay during such absence.
19.03	Employees leaving the Company's employ prior to the vacation shutdown will receive vacation pay on the basis set out in 19.01 on earnings since the previous computation date.
19.04	The Company at its discretion may shut down the plant for vacation period (normally during thetwo(2) weeks prior toCivic Holiday), at which time the employees will take their vacation, if not requ red to work during this period. Notice of such vacation shutdown will be posted two (2) months prior to the vacation period.
19.05 An employee who becomes seriously disabled (e.g. requiring hospitalization) within three (3)weeks of
the plant shutdown, and who
Compensation or weekly indemnity benefits during the plant shutdown shall be entitled
receiving Workers'
to take vacation at a
later date, as may be mutually agreed upon.
Article 20
WAGES
20.01	The Company agrees tc) pay and the Union agrees to accept for the term of this Agreement, the schedule of job classifications and wage rates asset out inApendices"A”and“B” which arp attached to and form part of this Agreement
There shall be weekly payment of wages effective January 1, 1987
20.02	In addition to the rates of pay listed inApendices "A" and “B”, the Company wjll pay the following premiums:
33
Shift Premium
(a)	Injection, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper and Caretaker (when on shift F).
Forhoursworkedfrorrj7 p.m.to7a.m.,6%of base rate per hour.
(b)	All other Departments including above departments when on eight (8 hour shift schedules.
Shift No. 1 — Nopremiim Shift No. 2 — 4% of ba^e rate per hour Shift No. 3 — 6% of ba^e rate per hour
Week-End Premiums
Injection, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper and Caretaker (when on shift F).
For hours worked fromj7 a.m. Saturday to 7 am. Sunday, 12% of base rate per hour.
For hours worked from 7 a.m. Sunday to 7 am. Monday, 20% of base rate per hour.
If schedulesare started involving Saturday or Sunday as part of a regular schedules, other than the twelve (12) hourscheduleas mentionecMibove, weekend premiums will be negotiated. If agreement is not reached within sixty (60) days voluntary binding arbitration will be invoked.
20.03	An employee temporarily transferred to another job fora period of fourteen (W) working days or less will receive the rate of the job 10 which the employee is transferred or the rate of the previously held job, whichever is higher. This fourteen (14) day period may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the employee. An employee transferred in lieu of layoff or at their own requestwillreceivsthe rateofthejobtowhich the employee is transferred.
20.04	It is agreed that the Company has the option to apply rates above the scheduled hiring rates when
34!
persons being hired have previous experience either with this Company or elsewhere,
20.05	There shall be no pyramiding of any premium or overtime payment with any other premium or overtime payment.
Overtime will be calculated on base rates only, shift premiums or other premiums will then be added.
20.06	An employee suffering an injury in the course of their employment who is required to leave the plant premises, will be paid to the end of their regular shift.
The Company reserves the rijght to investigate all reported injuries on Company premises, and if through medical investigation it is found tfiat the employee was not required toleavethe plant premises at the time of the injury, then the employee will not be paid as provided above.
20.07	In addition to the rates of pay outlined in Appendices “A” and “B”, a Cost of LivingAllowance(C.O.LA) of .65 of the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index (C.P.I. 1971 = 100) as published by Statistics Canada for each full .5 increase in the C.P.I. will be calculated basedonanemployee’p rate of pay as set out in “Wage Appendix" and will become payable as follows:
COLA adjustment to comfnence July 1993 b e ginning with the first full gay period after the publication of the June 1993 C.P.I. and based on the increase in C.P.I. for June 1993 and such adjustments shall continue according to the formula to and including the first ful| pay period after the publication of the August 1993 C.P.I. The maximum payment under this paragrgph will be 2% of an employee's hourly rate during this term.
In the case of decreases in the C.P.I. the COLA if any, will bereducedonthesameformulaasincreases are calculated.
35
Hours granted for Conlipany recognized holidays will be considerd as worked hours for the purpose of this clause.
At September 20, 1903, the COLA will then be folded into the base rate.
20,08	Apaymentoffive(5)dollarswill bemadetoeach certified First Aid Attendant atthe end of each calendar quarter.	I
21
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
21.01	This Article defines t9e normalhoursofworkand providesthe basisforcalculdfing overtime. It shall not be construed as a guarantee oflnours per day or per week, or days of work per week or as a restriction on the scheduling of a longer or shorter day or work week whenever, inthe opinion oftfie Company, it is necessary to meet business requirements.
21.02	The following shall be the standard shifts of the Company:
A— One (1) shift per day. I
Shift Times:	8:00 a.i|n. to 12:00 noon
1 2:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Rest Periods: Two (2J fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid)
Lunch Period: One (fj thirty (30)minute per shift (unpaid)
B — Two (2) shifts per day n a service department. Shift Times:	Shift 1 +- 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon
I 1 2:30 p.m. to4:30 p.m. Shift 2-)- 3:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
I 7:30 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. Rest Periods: Two (2 fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid)
36
c
D
Lunch Period: One (1) thirty (30) minute per shift (unpaid on day shift, paid on afternoon shift)
Two (2)shits per day in a production department not requiring continuous operation during rest and lunch periods.
Shift Times:	Shift 1 — 7:00 am. to 11:00 am.
11:0O a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Shift 2— 3:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
8:0p p.m. to 11:30 p.m.
Rest Period:	Two (2) fifteen (15) minute per
shift (paid)
Lunch Period: One(1) thirty (30) minute per shift (unpaid on day shift, paid on afternoon shift)
Two (2)shifts per day in a production department requiring continuous machine operation during rest and lunch periods.
Shift Times:	Shift 1 — 7:00 am. to 3:00 p.m.
Shift 2— 3:00 P-m. to 11:00 p.m. Shift 1 — variations:
6:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
1 0:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Rest Periods: One(1) fifteen minute per shift (paid)
Lunch Period: One (1) thirty (30) minute per shift (paid)
E — Three (3) shifts per day.
Shift Times:	Shift 1 — 7:0Q am. to 3:00 p.m.
Shift 2— 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. Shift 3— 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 am. Rest Periods: One (1) fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid)
Lunch Period: One (1) thirty (30) minute per shift (paid)
37
Twelve (12) hours per per week, when three Sundayand7 a.m.the twelve(12) hoursperdajr per week when four( Sunday and 7 a.m. I accordance with the Shift Times:
Rest Periods:
Lunch Period:
' and thirty-six (36) hours shifts fall between7 am. wing Sunday or it will be tendforty-eight(48) hours hifts fall between 7 a.m. following Sunday all in ted schedule.
Day :00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Night :00 p.m. to7:00 am. One( teen (15) minute per shift (paid)
Two (! iirty (30) minute per shift (paid)
Note 1 :
The timing of the rest per be scheduled by the Compe take his first break no earlii than 3 hours into his shift.
Note 2:
The present schedules £
A or B Plant Services, Ma|t Storeskeeper and C	Not presently use
D	Plating
E	Injection, Compres
ance, Storeskeep
The Company reserves 1 the above schedules by at department or job classify Union at least seven (7) wc
; in all departments are to An employeewill normally lan 1 'k hours and no later
as follows:
:erials Handling excluding retakers
a, Finishing,QualityAssur-nd Caretakers right to alter any or all of ing the employees in the ai:ion concerned and the ig days prior to the above
shift schedules, unless a shorter period is mutually agreeable to the parties to this Agreement.
The shift schedules as set out ill Article 21 may not be changed without a consultation meeting between manage ment and the Union to discuss alternatives.
Where more than one shift in a department isoutlined in this Agreement, Shift 2 and Shift 3 will be filled on a rotation basis if volunteers are not available. Rotations will not be longer than two (2) week intervals.
A new shift starting after 9 p.m. or ending before 8 am. shall include a paid thirty (30) minute lunch break
Note 3:
Notwithstanding the above for the life of th is Collective Agreement, except by negotiation:
(a)	Injection, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper, and Caretakers who are in the Company’s employ as of July 1 7, 1978 will not be requested to work on a schedule that includesSaturiday or Sunday as part of a regular schedule, other than the standard F shift as defined in this Agreement.
(b)	In all other departments, any personnel who are in the Company’s employ as of July 17, 1978, will not be requested to work on a schedule that includes Saturday or Sunday as part of a regular schedule.
21.03	Overtime hours are those worked in excess of the standard daily or weekly hours as listed in this Article. However, for the purpose of this Article only, overtime hours for Injection, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper and Caretaker will be defined as those hours in excess of thirty-six (36) hours per week when three (3) shiftsfall between7 a.m. Sunday and7 am. the following Sunday, or forty (40) hours per week when four (4) shifts fall between 7 am. Sunday and 7 am. the following Sunday.
39
21.04 Overtime will be paid half (1 %) the employee's reg excess of regular weekly hour: (4) hours, except in the cas recognized holidaywhere d worked over four (4) hours in hourswillbe paid at two(2)tim rate. Notwithstandingtheforeg hours must be worked subjec
Should an employee..fail work week and that failure
St the rate of time and one-qlar rate for time worked in s upto and including four of Sunday or Company rouble time will apply. Time excess of regular weekly es the employee's regular oing.thestandard weekly to the provisions of 21.05.
mplete .his standard t occasioned by fhe
th
provisions of 21.05, then beginning with those overtirr (4), shall be forfeited to m standard work week and the payable at the employee's ri For the purpose of this Art Injection, Quality Assura Caretaker
From 7 a.m. Sunday t All other departments From 11 p.m. Saturday
e above overtime hours, e hours in excess of four ike up the hours of the hours so forfeited shall be eigular rate, cle Sunday shall be: ice, Storeskeeper and
21.05 Notwithstanding the it is agreed that if an employ^ standard daily hours in anyone prevented from completing overtime will be paid if th: occasioned by:
(a)	Company layoff;
(b)	illness, provided thd
the right to require valit
(c)	absence for work fq
(d)	a Company recogn
(e)	with prior permissio
(f) lateness up to one
o co is no
5 7 a.m. Monday to 11 p.m. Sunday
orovisions of 21.04 above, e works in excess of their (1)dayand is subsequently his standard work week, It failure to complete is
t the Company shall have iation of such illness; r reasonable cause; ed holiday; n of Company;
1) hour.
44
21.06	Employees are expected to cooperate and perform overtime work when requested to do so by the Company. However, no employee will be penalized if overtime is refused.
21.07	The Company will endeavour to distribute overtime as fairly as possible.
21.08	The Companywill endeavourto provideemployees with at least forty-eight (48)hours notice beforescheduling overtime hours.
When overtime extends two (2)|hours or more beyond a regular shift, and overtime notice is not given prior to the current shift, a Meal Allowanqe of $6.00 will be paid toeffected employees. The same (Vleal Allowance will be made to an employee who has b®en contacted prior to their shift and asked to come to work three (3) hours or more earlier than their regular starting time.
21.09	Employees are requiredtacontactthe Personnel Office or their shift supervisor before the start of their regularshift, if they do notexpectto reportto work, or at the latest within one (1) hour after the start of their regular shift.
21.10	If an employee is sent home between midnight and 6 a.m. and does not have private transportation available, the Company will pay tax® fare to the employee’s home.
21.11	For overtime work on production machine operations, overtime operators shall be permitted to change machines at the end of the regular daily shift provided that request is made prior to shift change and the operator is qualified to operate the alternate machine.
21.12	I n cases of overtime as an, extension of a normal workday, a paid fifteen (15) minutq breakwill be provided at the beginning of the overtime and at the beginning of each two (2) hours worked thereafter.
41
tD
21.13 If an employee is reaji would otherwise have been shift the Company shall give notice. This does not apply switches with other employe rotations, call-in, layoff, a c employee, or emergencies the operation of the departm
ssigned from the shift he working on to a different seven (7) calendar days changes resulting from es, overtime, normal shift lange agreed to by the vfhich will crtitically affect ent involved.
21.14 Principles of Training Participation and Pay for Training
1. Training is a shared responsibility between the
or in Midland will be s<|: order of preference:
and both parties benefit g outside of normal working raining
Company and employe^! from the training
2.	Participation intrainin hours is voluntary
Company Initiated T
3.	An employee involved in training will be paid at the employee’s regular hourly rate. Shift premiums will apply if the training pccurs during employee’s normal "B” or “C” shift.
4.	Training provided for Employees with in the plant
heduled in the following
a)	during regular sjhift
b)	within forty (40) hours per week
c)	over forty (40) hours per week
5.	In all cases pay for Company initiated training shall be at straight time and time spent in training will not be considered lime worked for overtime calculation providing that the combined hours spent in training and hours worked do not exceed forty-six(46) hours total inanyone(1)week Intheevent that such combined hpurs exceed forty-six (46) hours normal overtime |ates will apply to hours in excess of forty-six (46) pours.
6.	Where Company sponsored training takes place outside Midland (i.e. Barrie, Toronto, Detroit, etc.) an employee maybe required to travel on their own
42!
time. If such training takes place over a continuous number of days, the employee will normally be paid for eight (8) hours per day regardless of whether the training islongerorshortterthaneight(8) hours per day.
Employee Initiated Courses 7. Where an employee initiates participation in a course with potential work related benefit but also fortheir own personal upgrading and advancement, theemployeewillbe advanced fundsf or tuition and books up front. If the employee shows proof of successful completion, the advance will be forgiven. If the course is not successfully completed, 50% of the advance will beforgiven^nd the other50% will be repaid to the Company.
Time spent in the employed initiated courses will not be paid. Inordertobeentitledforreimbursement there must be advance written approval by the Personnel Deprtment. Determination of whether the course has work-related benefit will be the sole judgment of the Personnel Department.
Article 22
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
22.01	All full-time employees wt)o qualify under the terms ofthe underwriters contracts^hall become eligible for Company paid benefits on the first day following the expiration of their probationary period.
22.02	The Company will provide and paythefullcostof the following employee benefitsforall eligible employees and eligible dependentsas“defined” inthe agreements or contracts between the Compahy and the Contract Holders Inthe case of premium cost reduction on any Company paid benefits, the Company will receive the benefit of the decrease.
43
22.03	Schedule of Compa|
(a)	London Life Healt Cross) including semi-dollar($1.00) deductible (or equivalent coverag including a$100.00 per
benefit in insurer's sta dard terms.
| paid benefits: care (formerly 1982 Blue rivate hospital and a one prescription drug provision with another insurer), and erson annual Chiropractic
(b) London Life Dent rates effective October rates effective Octob coverage with another
I Plan Fixed at 1989 ODA 1, 1991 and at 1990 ODA ■ 1, 1992 (or equivalent nsurer).
(c) Group Life Insura :e andAccidental Death and Dismemberment AD. and D. Plan)to a maximum of $20,000.00	“
$22,500.00 effective
■
ictive October 1, 1991; lober 1, 1992.
(d) Sickness and Accidental Benefit (i) For compensable accidents the employee will receive normlsl wages for remainder of shift on day of accident.
(ii) In cases of non-tompensable disability or sickness, the Insuring Company, upon verification of continuous disability or illness, will reimburse the eijnployee 66-2/3% of their basic rate of pay, beginning on the 1 st day of accident or hospitalization, the 4th day of sickness, continuing to the end of the 26th week The three (3) day waiting period for the sickness benefitwillbe waived ifthesickness lasts two (2) calendar weeks or more.
(e) One thousand ($1 ,()00.00) dollars, paid up Life Insurance upon retiirenjient (age60, effective Sep-ding the retiring employee years (effective September ervice with the Company.
tember20, 1992) prov has at least f ifteen (15) 20, 1992) continuous
(f) The Company will on employee owned t premises. Coverage wil and maximumratesandthescheduling
bay fire and theft insurance ools while on the Company be limited to thedeductible requirements.
44
22.04	The Company provides a "Contributory" Pension Plan for all eligible employees. Pension benefits will be based upon future servicecontributions only. All bargaining unit employees effected by this agreement who have one (1) year of seniorityior more mustjoin the Pension Plan.
Pension benefits will be $23.00 per month peryearof service for the period January 1,1991 to December31, 1993, with an employee contribution of $17.00 per month (based on time worked).
22.05	Benefits (excluding Pension) coverage during sickness, and injury: During periods of certified sick leave, the Company will pay the full cost of benefits for eligible employees for a minimum pftwo(2) full calendar monthsand a maximum of two (2) months of benefits for each year of service to a maximum of twelve( 12) months.
Benefits during period of approved leave of absence will be continued for thirty (30)cqlendar days only.
Benefits during periods of compensable injury will be paid by the Company.
Notwithstanding all circumstances above, extension or continuation of benefit coverage shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Contract Holder.
22.06	Employees should contactthe Personnel Office to obtain the necessary application forms for Sickness and Illness Benefits. The Personnel Department will furnish, if necessary, claim application forms for any other employee benefit.
22.07	Benefits will terminate for employees who are laid off at the end of the month following the month of layoff. Benefits will recommence at date of rehire.
In the case of Healthcare and Dental benefits, these may be carried through the Company on a pay direct basis, for the duration of layoff, for a one (1)year period only.
Premiums for these benefits will be the responsibility - 45 -
of the employee, who must make the appropriate arrangements through the Personnel! Office Premiums for the month in which a rehire occurs will be shared by the Company and the employee, pro-rated according to the number of days the employee was actually employed during the month of recall
Article 23
SAFETY ANp HEALTH
23.01	The Company agrees to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during their working hours, and the Union agrees to cooperate in the observance of safety rules and regulations of the Company.
Safety meetings are to bej held monthly.
23.02	Employeeswith one (1) year's seniority or more who are requiredtowear safety footwear will be allowed a subsidy of a maximum of two (2)pairof safety shoes in any one (1)year period as f jllows:
The Company will paly the 100% cost of the first pair of safety shoes up to a maximum of sixty ($60.00) dollars, and the cost of a second pair up to a maximum of thirty ($30.00) dollars or 50% of the purchase price, whichever is the lesser.
The Company-will provide one( 1) pair of prescription safety glasses per yee.r, where required, to each employee. Design and supplier to be designated by the Company.
4b
Article 24 NOTIFICATION
24.01	Except asotherwise provided, any noticeswhich either party desires to give the other shall be given by registered mail.
(a)	To the Company:
Waltec Plastics Division of Emco Limited 320 Elizabeth Street MIDLAND, Ontario L4R 4L6
(b)	To the Union:
Central Ontario Regional Office A.C.T.W.U.
1 5 Gervais Drive Suite 700
DON MILLS, Ontario M3C 1 Y8
(c)	To the President, AC.T.W-U., Local 1476
Currently
MIDLAND, Ontario
Article 25
DURATION AND TERMINATION
25.01	This Agreement shall be considered effective from September 20,1991 to the 18th day of September 1 993 inclusive, and shall automatically continue thereafter for annual periods of one (1) year each, unless either party notifiesthe other inwriting within the period of ninety (90) calendar days before the date of expiry that itdesirestoamend orterminape the Agreement, and negotiations shall start within fifteen (15) calendar days following such notification.
25.02	If the parties enter into negotiations for the purpose of amending this Agreement and agreement to the renewal or amendment of this Agreement is not
- 47 -
reached prior to the normal termination date hereof, the termination of this Agreement shall be automatically extended until consummation of a new Agreement or completion of the conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Labour Relations Act, 1980 of the Province of Ontario, andfourteen(14)calendardaysfollowing issuance of the Conciliation Board’s eport thereunder (if any), whichever should occur first
This instrument and the ex made part hereof constitute thp the parties,
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
has caused this Agreement authorized representatives ____________________19
hibits attached hereto and i entire agreement between
each of the parties hereto to be signed by their duly as of this___________day of
FORWALTEC PLASTICS DIVISION OFEMCO LIMITED.
B. Fox, President	..
J.	Desjardins. Personnel Manager D. Webster, Financial Manager
B. Dutton, Plant Manager A Mudde, Operations Manager B. Phelps, Council
FOR AMALGAMATED CLOlrHING & TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, AFL-Cip, CLC, LOCAL 1 476
R. Murphy, President
K.	Stonehouse, Vice President
J. Quesnelle, Negotiating Member P. Vaillancourt, Negotiating Member D. Maloney, Sargeant at A'ms
FOR THE CENTRAL ONTARIO REGIONAL OFFICE, A.C.T.W.U., AFL-CIO, CLC
B.J. Cardy, Regional P.	i, Regional
48
WAGE APPENDIX
The wage progressionfor persons hired afterSeptember 1 9, 1988, as a % of the top rate for each classification, shall be:
on hiring	-	90%
3 months	-	94%
6	months	-	97%
9 months	-	100%
The starting rate for an employee who has changed classifications shall be the 6 month rate except where the employee had previously attained the top rate for that classification.
49
APPENDIX “A”
WAGE SCHEDULE
SEPTEMBER20.1991 to SEPTEMBER! 9.1992
Compression
Operator
L	Tech Grade3
0	i ecn Graae 2
1	Tech Grade 1 Lead Hand Co-ordinator Finishing Finisher Caretaker Silkscreener Tech Grade 3 Tech Grade 2 Tech Grade 1 Lead Hand
	3
Hiring	Months
$10.86	$11.35
11.33	11.83
12.27	12.81
13.29	13.88
10.56	1 1.03
10.69	1 1.17
10.78	11.26
11.27	11.77
11.67	12.19
12.51	13.07
6	9
Months	Months
$11.71	$12.06
12.21	12.58
T3t22~	-13.63~
14.32	14.77
	15.31
	1 6.40
11.38	11.73
11.52	11.88
11.62	11.98
12.15	12.52
12.58	12.97
13.49	13.90
	14.45
Spray Paint SP Grade2	10.86	11.35	11.71	12.06
SP Grade 1	11.21	11.70	12.08	12.45
Injection Operator	10.76	11.24	11.60	11.96
Grinding Technician	1 1.33	11.83	12.21	12.58
Tech Grade3	1 1.33	11.83	12.21	12.58
Storekeeper	1 2.08	12.61	13.02	13.42
Tech Grade2	12.27	12.81	13.22	13.63
Tech Grade 1	13.29	13.88	14.32	14.77
Lead Hand				15.31
Material Handling Dept. Stockhandler	1 1.11	11.60	11.97	12.32
Co-ordinator				13.96
Plant Services Caretaker	10.69	11.17	11.52	11.88
Head Caretaker	1 1.15	11.65	12.02	12.40
Maintenance Assistant	10.86	11.35	11.71	12.06
Tech Grade3	11.69	12.21	12.60	12.99
Tech Grade2	12.44	13.00	13.41	13.83
Tech Grade 1	14.11	14.73	15.21	15.68
APPENDIX “A” (Continued)
WAGE SCHEDULE
SEPTEMBER 20,1991 to SEPTEMBER 19, 1992
Hiring
Electrical Specialist	1 4.11
Maintenance Lead Hand Maintenance Co-ordinator Toolmaker Assistant	11.66
Toolmaker Grader4	12.86
Toolmaker Grade 3	13.81
Toolmaker Grade 2	14.68
Toolmaker Grade 1	15.47
Toolmaker Lead Hand Toolmaker Coordinator Plating
Racker	10.56
Tech Grade 3	11.27
Tech Grade 2	11.67
Tech Grade 1	12.51
Lab Tech	12.51
3	6	9
Months	Months	Months
14.73	15.21	15.68
		1 6.22
		17.86
12.18	12.57		T236—
13.44	13.87	14.30
14.43	14.89	15.35
15.33	15.82	16.31
16.16	16.67	17.19
		17.73
		18.82
11.03	11.39	1 1.74
11.77	12.15	12.52
12.19	12.58	12.97
13.07	13.49	13.90
13.07	13.49	13.90
Quality Assurance Dept. Operator	10.76	11.23	11.59	11.95
Inspector Assistant	10.98	11.47	11.83	12.20
Inspector Grade 2	12.07	12.61	13.01	13.41
Inspector Grade 1	2.46	13.02	13.43	13.85
Lead Hand Students		70% of Operator starting rate		14.39
C71
CO
I
G> CM CO CO
Notel : Length of service for Technicians and Toolmakers is dated from appointment to their classification and not length of service with Company Persons in these categories must spend minimum of time in each grade according to the requirements before being tested for reclassification
Employeestransferred inatechnical position will receivethetop rateoftheclassification upon successfully completing their exams
Note2: Technicians, Tool makers or other persons, will, while on a shift not covered by a department supervisor or lead hand, receive fifty (50) cents per hourabovetheirschedule rates, if assigned supervisory responsibility on that shift
Note 3: A stock handler driving a single axle truck beyond a radius of twenty-five (25) kilometers from Midland will receive 5% premium above their schedule rate for those hours
Note 4:	Employee’swriting exams shall be paid straight time hourly rate for the time
prescribed for the test which will be after or before regular hours
Note 5: Spray painters, while wearing pressurized painting suits, will receive fifty (50) cents per hour premium above the schedule rates for that shift
APPENDIX “B”
WAGE SCHEDULE
SEPTEMBER 20, 1992 to SEPTEMBER 1 9, 1993
		3	6	9
	Hiring	Months	Months	Months
Compression Dept. Operator	11.17	11.67	12.04	12.40
Tech Grade3	11.64	12.16	12.55	12.93
Tech Grade 2	12.61	13.17	13.59	14.01
Tech Grade 1	13.65	14.26	14.71	15.18
Lead Hand				15.74
Co-ordinator				16.86
Finishing Dept. Finisher	10.85	11.34	11.70	12.06
Caretaker	10.99	11.48	11.85	12.21
Silkscreener	11.09	11.58	11.95	12.32
Tech Grade 3	11.58	12.10	12.49	12.87
Tech Grade 2	12.00	12.53	12.93	13.33
Tech Grade 1	12.86	13.43	13.86	14.29
Lead Hand				14.85
APPENDIX “B” (Continued)
WAGE SCHEDULE
SEPTEMBER 20, 1992 to SEPTEMBER 19,1993
Spray Paint Dept. SP Grade 2	11.17	11.65	12.04	12.40
SP Gi'aUc 1	1-LS2	12,04		1 PRO
Injection Dept. Operator	11.06	11.55	11.92	12.29
Grinding Tech	11.64	12.16	12.55	12.93
Tech Grade 3	11.64	12.16	12.55	12.93
Storekeeper	12.42	12.97	13.39	13.80
Tech Grade 2	12.61	13.17	13.59	14.01
Tech Grade 1	13.65	14.26	14.71	15.18
Lead Hand				15.74
Material Handling Dept Stockhandler	11.42	11.93	12.31	12.66
Co-ordinator				14.35
I
CJl
-4
I
Plant Services Dept	
Caretaker	10.99
Head Caretaker	1 1.46
Maintenance Asst.	11.17
Tech Grade 3	12.02
Tech Grade 2	12.80
Tech Grade 1	14.51
Electric Specialist Maintenance Lead Hand Maintenance Co-ordinator	14.51
Toolmaker Asst	11.99
Toolmaker Grade 4	13,22
Toolmaker Grade 3	14,20
Toolmaker Grade 2	15,09
Toolmaker Grade 1 Toolmaker Lead Hand Toolmaker co-ordinator	15.90
11.48	11.85	12.21
11.97	12.36	12.75
11.65	12.04	12.40
12.55	12.95	13.35
13.37	13.79	14.22
15.15	15.64	16.12
15.15	15.64	16.12
		16.67
		18.36
12.52	12.92	13.32
13.81	14.25	14.70
14.83	15.31	15.78
15.76	16.27	16.77
16.61	17.14	17.67
		18.23
		19.35
APPENDIX ' 'E"(Continued)
WAGE SCHEDULE
SEPTEMBER20, 1992 to SEPTEMBER 19, 1993
		3	6	9
Plating Dept.	Hiring	Months	Months	Months
Racker	10.86	11.34	11.70	12.07
Tech Grade 3	11.58	12.10	12.49	12.87
Tech Grade 2	12.00	T233~	T23S	T3^
Tech Grade 1	12.86	13.43	13.86	14.29
Lab Technician Quality Assurance Dept.	12.86	13,43	13.86	14.29
Operator	11.05	11.54	11.91	12.28
Inspector Asst.	11.28	11.78	12.16	12.54
Inspector Grade 2	12.41	12.96	13.37	13.79
Inspector Grade 1 Lead Hand	12.81	13.38	13.81	14.24 14.79
Students		70% of Operator starting rate		
Notel : Length of service for Technicians andToolmakers is dated from appointment to their classification and not length of service with Company.Persons in these categories must spend minimum of time in each grade according to the requirements before being tested for reclassification.
Employeestransferred ina technical position will receive the top rate of the classification upon successfully completing their exams.
Note2: Technicians, Toolmakers or other persons, will, while on a shift not covered bya department supervisor or lead hand, receive fifty (50) cents per hourabovetheirschedule rates, if assigned supervisory responsibility on that shift.
Note 3: A stock handler driving a single axle truck beyond a radius of twenty-five (25) kilometers from Midland will receive 5% premium above their schedule rate for those hours
Note 4: Employee’s writing exams shall be paid straight time hourly rate for the time prescribed for the test which will be after or before regular hours
Note 5: Spray painters, while wearing pressurized painting suits, will receive fifty (50) cents per hour premium above the schedule ratesfor that shift.
APPE
INJECTION DEPARTMENT— WEEK-ENDSHIFTS
The technicians, on a voluntary basis, workweekends underthe following conditions:
“A Shift”
11 p.m. Thursday 11 p.m. Friday 11 p.m. Saturday “B Shift”
3 p.m. Friday 11 am. Saturday 11 am. Sunday
7	d,m. Friday 11 a,m. Saturday 11 a,m. Sunday
11 p,m. Friday 11 F.m. Saturday 11 P;m. Sunday
8 hours 1 2 hours 1 2 hours
8 hours 12 hours 12 hours
2.	Technicians are paid f3| week with a6% night shift 2% premium for “B” shift (R applicable).C.O. LA is paid f7 rates paid for twenty-four ('
3.	HolidaysforTechnicians the eight (8) hour Friday sh
r forty (40) hours work each Eemium for“A” shift and at a p Saturday or Sunday rates forty(40) hours. Supervision 1'4) hours per week
are to begivenbyeliminating ift for that week
4.	There are no mould chai|i shifts runmachinesalready the maximum number of pai sibilities include considerdl ensure that only good parts
ges or setups required. The |etupwithaviewtoobtaining rts. The Technician's response part quality checks to are produced.
shift
5.	The duration of this than eight (8) consecutive
for technicians is no more weeks at one time.
Conditions of work for operators:
sFia)ff>e as^ol^olvs^8^8^1 H ^ours^s are worked they
“A” Shift 11 p.m. Friday 11 p.m. Saturday
11 am. Saturday 1 2 hours 11 am. Sunday 12 hours
4i0
“B” Shift
11 am. Saturday 11 p.m. Saturday 12 hours
11 am. Sunday	11 p.m. Sunday	12 hours
2.	The work week for employees wtio have seniority on a regular forty (40) hour shift, employed on these weekend shifts, will be thirty-two (32) hours consisting of two (2) twelve (12) hour weekend shifts find one (1) eight (8) hour shift The eight (8) hour shift dill be one (1) of the regular forty (40)hour shifts as determined by manage-mentonacall-in basis. DuringthisshSftthe employeewill work as an operator or any other reasonable required work
3.	The work week for employees who do not have seniority on a regular forty (40) hour shift, employed on these weekend shifts will be twefity-four (24) hours consisting of two (2)twelve (12) hourweekend shifts, or sixteen (16) hours, consisting of two (2) eight (8) hour shifts
4.	The operators are paid at their regular rates with a 6% night shift premium for “A” shift and at a 2% premium for“B” shift (no Saturday or Sunday rateswill be applicable), and regular shift rates for the shift worked during the week
5.	An employee who is switching from any other shift to the weekend shift shall have at least twelve (12) hours off betweenthe endofworkon theothershiftto the start of work on the weekend shift and the Company may assign employees to start at either 11 p.m. or11 am. If the employee has not had at least twelve( 12) hours off, he shall be paid at the overtime rate until twelve (1 2) hours have elapsed except where the employee so requests
61
General
1.	On each twelve (12) h°ur shift there will be:
—	one (1) fifteen (15) Hiinute rest period (paid)
—	two (2) thirty (30) minute lunch periods (paid)
2.	For purposes of buildi^ hours worked will count ai twenty-four (24) hours are
g up seniority, each eight(8) one (1) day, provided at least worked on the weekend.
3.
Company recognized provisions of the contract,
lays, ifeligible. under the be paid at eight f8,)hours.
4. Each shift will normally Grade 1 or 2, plus three (; machines.
consist of one(1) technician, !) operators running four (4)
02
LETTER OF INTENT
Inthe event that the Company should decideto close the plant or department,the Company agreesto negotiate the severance agreements for terminated employees
In a case of a plant or department relocation, the Company will give preferential consideration to offering continued employment to present employees and will consider providing financial assistance to those being requested to move.
Thisarrangement will be ineffect until SeptembeM 9, 1993, when thecurrent Collective Agreement expires, at which time you may again request the Company to re establish its position on this matter.
63
REQUESTS I^R VACATIONS
Requests for the 3rd, 4t'l5th week of vacation will be hand led through the emprsee's Supervisor asfollows, if mutual consent between "arties cannot be reached:
1. The Company may dete.
'inethe numberof employees
who may be away from TRyclassification/department at any one time.
2.	Prior to April 1 st, senior ty will determinethevacation priority.
3.	After March 31 st, vacation priority will be determined on a first come basis.
In all cases acknowledgment of vacation requests will be given within five (5) working days.
4)4
AGREEMENT ON POLICY
Policy for pay cheques:
(a)	Shortage inwageswill be Corrected by issuing anothercheque or ifthe amounts small, immediately advancing the estimated "NET PAY’ out of Petty Cashfunds. Any advance will be deducted from the nextweek‘s cheque,at which timetheshortage will also be corrected.
(b)	Regular pay cheques for 3-11 and 11-7 shifts will be distributed on the Wednesday shift, the remainder of the employees will receive their pay cheque on their Thursday shift. If Monday is a holiday, all employees will be paid during their shift commencing on Thursday.
AGREEMENT ON POLICY RE: Benefit Administration
Therewill be a Joint Benefits Committee. Management Representatives shall meet with the Union Representatives as required to discuss issues arising out of administration of the benefit plans.
65
LETTER OF AGREEMENT RE: Spray Painting
For the term of thisAgre into the Spray Painting de| have previously demonstri perform in that departmei The Company shall notif; opportunity to demonstraj they have signed up prio layoff notice. New employe' after six (6) months of emi The employee shall be time spent in such demon: time isoutside of his regul deemed to be hours worke: calculation.
ment, to be entitledto bump lartment, an employee must [ted hisability tosatisfactorily it.
employees that they have an e their ability provided that to four (4) months before a fes shall have such opportunity ployment.
aid at straight time rates for itration provided that if such r working hours it shall not be Id for the purposes of overtime
The operation of this letter shall be reviewed every six (6) months.
4i6
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: ARTICLE 1 2.07
The Union acknowledges that the Company may require a medical examination by a Company approved Doctor or Doctor of Chiropractic on hiring or transfers between departments.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: PAY FOR UNION REPRESENTATIVES
The appropriate Union Representatives will be paid for regular scheduled working hours last on the following business
1.	Fornegotiatingmeetingswithmanagementtoa maximum of eight (8)hours per day
2.	Forgrievanceordiscipline meetingsas inArticle 6.06, and for all other meetings called by management
If such a meeting takes place outside an employee's normal working hours he shall be paid at straight time rates but thattimeshallnot becountadashoursworked
67
LETTERINTENTION RE: HEALTHS SAFETY
The parties agree that Company Health and Safe safety inspection of all de|
one (1) Union and one (1) ty representative shall do a partments each month.
LETTER OF
It has been agreed that jol cation which have not bee 20, 1988, will be updated input from employees ang be welcomed'.
AGREEMENT
b description and job classifi-n updated since September by December 31, 1991 and Union Representatives will
EARLY RETIREE HEALTHCARE COVERAGE
An employee who retire: (20) years service (fifteen September 20, 1992) an September 20, 1992) shall the Company Healthcare mencing September 199C
is early after at least twenty (15) years service effective d age 62 (age 60 effective be entitled to participate in Plan at their expense com-to age 65.
68
LETTER OF AGREEMENT Re: O.H.I.P.
If during the life of this Collective Agreement, the Ontario Government repeals the Extended Health Tax and enacts legislation permitting employersand employees to share the cost of health insurance premiums, it is agreed that the Company will pay the full cost of such premiums necessary to maintain the basic level of health insurance provided as of 1 991 by the Extended Health Tax
LETTER OF AGREEMENT Re: Military Service
If an employee is conscripted to active Canadian Military service the employee will retain existing seniority for a period upto, but notexceeding the seniority before entering active military service. Upon release from military service, the Company will provide, to an employee who retains seniority, an employment opportunity if
1.	A job similar to the one vacated on conscription presently filled by a lesser seniority employee exists.
2.	The employee is able and willing to perform the job.
69