SOURCE I !	
m. c	7SI <5
TERM. -	Motifi
No. Of employees	, I
nombre D'EMPtOrfs	■--xLSj
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between:
WALTEC PLASTICS DIVISION OFEMCO LIMITED
And:
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES CLC,AFL-Clp AND LOCAL 1476
EFFECTIVE OATES SEPTEMBER 20,1995 to
SEPTEMBER )9,1998
WAI TEC PLASTICS DIVISION OF EMCO LIMITED
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 • GENERAL PURPOSE.................. 1
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION AND COVERAGE......... 2
ARTICLE 3-MANAGEMENT RIGHTS ................. 3
ARTICLE 4-UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF....... 4
ARTICLE 5 - DISCRIMINATIONAND INTIMIDATION.\ . . 5
ARTICLE 6 - UNION REPRESENTATION............. 6
ARTICLE 7-GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE................ 8
ARTICLE 8 ■ ARBITRATION .................... 10
ARTICLE 9-DISCHARGE......................... 12
ARTICLE 10-STRIKES, LOCKOUTS AND SLOWDOWNS... 13
ARTICLE 11-SENIORITY........................ 13
ARTICLE 12 - TRANSFERS AND JOB POSTINGS...... 17
ARTICLE 13-LAYOFFS AND RECALLS .............. 22
ARTICLE 14 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE............... 26
ARTICLE 15-NOTICES AND ANNOUNCEMENTS ....... 29
ARTICLE 16- REPORTINGALLOWANCE.............. 30
ARTICLE 17 -TECHNOLOGICALCHANGE............. 31
ARTICLE 18-COMPANY RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS ..... 33
ARTICLE 19 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
38
ARTICLE 20 -WAGES
40
ARTICLE 21 - HOURS OF WORK AjND OVERTIME..... 43
ARTICLE 22-EMPLOYEE BENEFITS................. 53
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY AND HEALTH............... 56
ARTICLE 24 - NOTIFICATION ................... 57
ARTICLE 25 - DURATION AND TERMINATION	'/f5 /
WAGE APPENDIX...........,.................1. . . 61
APPENDIX "A" WAGE SCHEDULE................... 62
APPENDIX "B" WAGE SCHEDULE................... 66
APPENDIX "C" WAGE SCHEDULE................... 70
APPENDIX "D” LETTER OF INTENT................ 74
APPENDIX "E" INJECTION DEPARTMENT
WEEK-END SHIFTS.................. 75
REQUESTS FOR VACATIONS ...................... 78
AGREEMENT ON POLICY ......................... 78
LETTER OF AGREEMENT ........................  79
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING...................... 80
1
THIS AGREEMENT entered into at Midland, Ontario, as of the 20th day of September, 1995.
BY AND BETWEEN:
WALTEC PLASTICS DIVISION OF EMCO LIMITED . located in Midland, Ontario (hereinafterreferredto as "the Company")
AND:
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIALAND TEXTILE EMPLOYEESCLC, AFL-CIO AND LOCAL 1476 (hereinafterreferredto ab "the Union")
ARTICLE 1 . GENERAI PURPOSE
1.01	It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement to assure sound and mutually beneficial industrial and economic relationships between parties hereto, to provide an orderly and peaceful means of conducting negotiations and resolving any misunderstanding or grievances, and to set forth herein the basic and full agreement between the parties covering rates of pay, wages, hours of work and other conditions of employment
1.02	The parties agree that neither employees nor employer should endeavour to limit the production of an individual, and that only
2
in the progressively more promable operation of the Company can the employees basically secure greater earnings and security
1.03	The parties agree that the above objectives can be better achieved by compliance .at all times with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and by the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITIONAND COVERAGE
2.01	The Company recognizes Agreement as the sole employees of Waltec PI Midland, Ontario, save and the rank of supervisor, off students employed during twenty (20) hours a week,
Work normally performed not be done by employees for students as defined ab
2.02	The word "employee" or Agreement shall mean a Bargaining Unit as define otherwise provides.
2.03	Where the masculine prom include the feminine prone
he Union during the terms of this illective bargaining agent for all sties Division of Emco Limited, ixcept supervisors, persons above e and sales staff, security guards, he school year for not more than nd homeworkers.
/ Bargaining Unit employees shall utside the Bargaining Unit, except •e.
mployees" wherever used in this 1 or all of the employees in the above except where the context
n is used herein, it shall mean and n where the context applies.
3
ARTICLE 3 ■ MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3,01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the
Company to manage the business and direct the working force,
including but not limited to the following:
(a)	To maintain order and efficiency, and set quality standards, enforce and formulate reasonable plant rules and regulations, including fire and safety regulations.
(b)	To hire, layoff, classify, transfer, promote or discipline, suspend, discharge or demote for just cause. Subject to the right of the employeeto submit a grievance in the case of discipline, suspension or discharge.
(c)	To schedule and change hours of work, to determine and change work assignments, to decide employee qualifications, and to discontinuejobs.
(d)	To manage the industrial enterprises in which the Company is engaged, determining the products and materials to be handledjprocessed and manufactured, the methods of manufacturing, the schedules, extension and limitations of operations, the kinds, numbers and location of plants, machines and equipment to be used, the processes of manufacturing and the nature of its products.
(e)	The Union acknowledges that the Company has and shall retain the sole right and responsibility to subcontract work as long as the action of
subcontracting doesi not mean that present employees will be laid off
(f)	The Company agr* 5s that the above functions will be
exercised in a man1 6r consistent with the provisions of the Agreement and :tie Collective Bargaining Rights of the Union
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY AfllP CHECK-OFF
4.01	All new employees shall, as a condition of employment, pay a Local Union initiation fee. T'1 is initiation fee shall be the first two hours pay of the new emp' byee and shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Ljocal.
An employeewho has beep a new initiation fee unless h * Company for more than twQ
^hired shall not be required to pay has been out of the employ of the (2) years.	,
All employees upon comp ation of their probationary period shall, as a condition of er ployment, pay union dues, or an amount equivalent to unlo dues, which will be the amount prescribed by the Constiti lion of the Union, the first such payments to be considered ie International Union initiation fee.
These dues or the equivale’’ shall be deducted from the second pay period of each month ar i the amounts so deducted shall be remitted monthly by cheq^ ; to the Ontario Joint Council, 15 Gervais Drive, Suite 700, D n Mills, Ontario, M3C 1Y8, whose receipt thereof shall be *1 insidered as a discharge to the Company for the amount s| deducted.
5
4.02	Employees who are, or who during the term of this Agreement become members of the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment with the Company, remain members in good standing of the Union.
4.03	The Company will, at the time of making the original remittance to the Union, specify the employees' names from whose pay such deductions were made. For subsequent remittance the Company will supply the Union with a statement showihg the nameofeach permanentemployeefrom who no deduction was made and the reasons thereof.
4.04	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims, suits, judgements, attachments, and from any form of liability as a result of such deductions.
ARTICLE 5 - DISCRIMINATION AND INTIMIDATION
5.01	It is agreed that there will be no discrimination, coercion or intimidation by the Company, the Management, the Union or its officers or members against any employee because of his activity, or lack of activity, membership or non membership in any political, labour or Union organization or because of race, creed, colour, age, sex, marital status, nationality, ancestry or place of origin.
5.02	it is further agreed that there shall be no solicitation of members, collection of dues or other Union activities on the premises of the Company except as permitted by this Agreement. It is understood that no meeting of the Union or its members shall be held on the premises of the Company, nor shall any of its activities be so held at any time without prior
6
written approval of the Company
5.03	The Union agrees that underl no circumstanceswill contractual or supervisory maintenance personnel, to maximum of four (4), or contractual security guards, to a maximum of four (4), be prevented from having free land unmolested entrance to, and departure from the plant, fcjr the purpose of performing their duties. The Company agreep that under no circumstanceswill the above mentioned personnel perform production work.
5.04	It is further agreed that any employee who violates any of the provisions of this Article may be disciplined by the Company.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION REERESENT^TIEN
6.01	The Company recognizes | the right of the Union to elect, appoint, or otherwise seledt a Bargaining Committee of not more than five (5) members of the local Union, who have at least one (1) year's service yvith the Company. This Committee will be the Bargaining Com. .aee for negotiations. •
The Union Executive will ejct as a Grievance Committee. A maximum of five (5Jwill act|as a Grievance Committee.
6.02	The Union will elect or appoint and the Company will recognize the number of Shop Stewards from each of the following department groups as indicated;
(a)	Compression	-three (3)
(b)	Finishing	- one (1) Per Shift
<c)	Injection	- three (3) Per Plant
(d)	Materials Handling]	- one (1) Per Plant
7
(e)	Plant Services	- one (1)- Heritage Plant
		- two (2) - Crown Plant
(f)	Plating	- one (1) Per Shift
(g)	Quality Assurance	-one(1)
In the	event that a departure reduces the number of shifts	
worked, the departmental Union Steward of the shift eliminated will be considered as having the most seniority, subject to Article 13.05, while remaining in the department as a .Union Steward (not to exceed the prespnt elected term).
6.03	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the Union Stewards and thd departments or group of departments each represents, and of any changes in the personnel of the Union Stewards before the Company shall be required to recognizethem.
6.04	It is mutually agreed that the employees shall not be eligible to serve as Stewards until they havp at least one (1) year’s service with the Company.
6.05	It is understood that Union Stewards have their regular work to perform on behalf of the Company, and if it is necessary to service a grievance during working hours they will not cease their work without obtaining permission of their supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. When resuming their regular work they will report to their supervisor
6.06	The Grievance Committee and Union Stewards shall be allowed reasonable time off to investigate grievances and to attend meetingswith management, andshall be compensated for time spent during working hours at their straight time hourly rate Any abuse of such privilege may be the subject of a grievance
a
by the Company.
6.07	When an employee is disciplined the Union official present shall be a Steward in the department, if not available then a Steward of their choice or a member of Executive who are then present. The parties agree the provisions are directory. The Company agrees to advise its supervisors to comply with the provision.
ARTICLE7 • GRIEVANCE PROCECtURE
7.01	Complaints and grievances)shall be adjusted as quickly as possible.
7.02	An employee who has a cor to his supervisor within sevi employee was first aware or of the occurrence. The sup decision within two (2) ft employee's complaint or gi Steward may accompany t complaint or grievance.
blaint or grievance shall present it n (7) working days of the date the easonably could have been aware rvisor must give the employee his I working days of receiving the evance. The departmental Shop e employee when presenting his
7.03	If the supervisor's answer \ was unsatisfactory, the gi following sequence and ma supplied by the Union and :
iven the employee in clause 7.02 svance will be taken up in the mer. Forms for. this use are to be aproved by the Company.
Step 1
The written grievance, signe i by the grieving employee and by the Steward of the departmr it involved, will be presented to the
9
supervisorof the department within four (4) full working days of the supervisor's decision in elapse 7.02. The supervisor will give written decision to the departmental Shop Steward within four (4) full working days of receiving the written grievance. The grievance will be considered settled unless Step 2 is taken within four (4) full working days following the written decision given by the supervisor in Step 1.
Step 2
The written grievance will be submitted by the Grievance Committee to the Plant Managpr or his representative. The Plant Manageror his representativewill give his written decision to the Grievance Committee within four (4) full working days of receiving the written grievance. The grievance will be considered settled unless Step 3 is taken within four (4) full working days following the written decision given by the Plant Manageror his representative in Step 2.
step 3
The written grievance, including,copiesof the submissions and decisions made under the preceding steps, will be submitted to the General Manager. The General Manager will give his written decision to the Grievance Committee within five (5) full working days of receiving the written grievance. If the General Manager is not available, the parties may mutually agree to extend the normal five (5) day time period or accept the General Manager's nominee. The grievance will be considered settled unless timely request for Arbitration, as provided in Article 8 of the Agreement is made following the written decision of the
10
General Manager or his nor inee in Step 3.
7.04	A representative of the Inte national Union may be present at any of the proceedings unde • Step 2 or 3 above, at the request of either party
7.05	Any difference or grievail )b arising directly between the Company and Union may bl submitted in writing by either party at Step 2.
7.06	When a group of employee 1 from more than one department has a complaint or grievan te, it shall be first taken up under Step 2.
7.07	Any adjustment arising out 'f the settlement of an employee’s grievance, or the grievance fa group of employees, under the grievance or arbitration proc 'dure shall not be made retroactive prior to the beginning of the 'ay period immediately proceeding the date on which it was firs1 presented thereunder in writing by the employee or the group d (employees concerned. The above restriction on retroactivity W I not apply to payroll grievances.
7.08	The Union acknowledges^ it probationary employees may be dismissed by the Company, and that such dismissal shall not be the subject of a grievance.
8.01	Failing a settlement under tl i Grievance Procedure, the matter
in dispute may be taken to s aitration, provided that if no written request is received within fc rteen (14) calendar days after the final decision is given undei he grievance procedure it shall be
11
deemed to have been finally, completely, and satisfactorily settled.
8.02	When either party requests arbitration as herein above provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement arid, at the same time, nominate an arbitrator. The notice shall stqte the matter at issue and shall state in what respect the Agreement has been violated or misinterpreted by reference to the specific clause or clauses relied upon. The notice shall also state the nature of the relief or remedy sought. The Party so notified shall appoint their arbitratorwithin ten (10) working days of such notice
The two (2) arbitrators so nominated shall meet within ten (10) working days, and if within five (4) further full working days they fail to settle the grievance, they shall attempt to select by agreement a third person who shall act as impartial chairman of the Arbitration. If they are unable to agree on the choice of such a chairman within seven (7) calendar days, then the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall be asked to name a chairman of the Arbitration Board.
8.03	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved inan attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
8.04	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous required steps of the grievance procedure.
8.05	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of a majority of such board shall be final and binding upon the Company, Union and employees concerned.
8.06	Each of the parties hereto w appointed by it, or for it, expenses, if any, of the Chj
8.07	The Arbitration Board shall decision inconsistentwith t^
8.08	Any and all time limits refi arbitration procedures hereii written agreement between
8.09	In determining and disci grievance, the Board of Arb
	(a) affirm the Company
	(b) set aside the penal restorethegrievort| compensation; or ■
bear the expense of the arbitrator nd parties will equally bear the rman of the Arbitration Board.
lot have any authority to make a ! provisions of this Agreement.
red to under the grievance and may, at any time, be extended by ie Company and the Union.
irge or any other disciplinary ration shall have the authority to:
action and dismiss the grievance;
t imposed by the Company, and his former position with or without
(c)	vary or alter the p alty imposed by the Company or make such other “termination as the Board in its discretion may dei justified.
ARTICLE 9 - DISCHARGE
9.01	A discharged employee i^fell have the right to discuss their grievance with their ShopS,eward inthe Personneloffice before leaving the plant. If an enlE>loyee claims the discharge to be unjust, it shall be treated al a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged ,by the employee with the Plant Manager within two (2)wonihg days after the employee ceases
13
to work for the Company. This grievance shall be taken up under the Grievance Procedure, and Step 1 will be omitted.
9.02	Such special grievances may be settled under the grievance or arbitration procedure by:
(i)	Confirmingthe management's action in discharging the employee.
(ii)	Reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost less such sum$ earned by the employee from the date of their dismissal to the date of their reinstatement.
(iii)	Or by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
ARTICLE 1£L- STRIKES. LOCKOUTS AND.SLQWDOWNS
10.01	In view of the orderly procedures here set out for settling grievances, the Company agrees that there will be no lockout of the employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strike, slow-down, sit-down or any stoppage of work, or any other action either partial or complete, either by an individual employee or by a group of employees, which will in anyway disrupt the operations of the Company.
ARTICLE 11-SENIORITY
11.01	For the first forty-five (45) days worked from the date of hire, new employees will be considered probationary and not entitled
14
to seniority The forty-five (45) day probationary period will be extended by plant vacations, but not beyond a consecutive thirteen (13) week lay off or] any occurrence over which the Company has no control.
During the forty-five (45) day this Article, new employees \a may be dismissed or laid off
probationary period, as outlined in not be entitled to seniority, and at the discretion of the Company.
Upon the expiration of the probationary period as outlined in this Article, new employees sha | acquire seniority rights and be placed on the seniority list With seniority established from the first working day of the employee's last hiring.
11,02	The Company will provide the Union with updated department
and plant wide seniority lists be posted on a Company fourteen (14) calendar days
All seniority lists will show employment as well as classification in the followirij
very three (3) months which shall rulletin board for a minimum of
ie employee's name arid date of he employee's status or job plant departments:
(a)	Compression
(b)	Finishing
(c)	Injection
(d)	Materials Handling
(e)	Plant Services
(f)	Plating
(g)	Quality Assurance
(h)	Spray Painting
15
The Spray Painting and Finishing Departments will be administered as one department for all purposes except seniority, layoff and recall.
The Company agrees to continue to administer the Plant Service Departmentin the same| manner as when the Tool and Maintenance sections were natned as separate departments under the Collective Agreement. Such practices will include, but not be limited to seniority and preference for vacation periods
11.03	An employee shall lose all seniority if that employee:
(a)	Voluntarily quits the employ of the Company.
(b)	£ discharged by the Cqmpany and such discharge is not reversed through the Grievance Procedure.
(c)	Following a layoff of indeterminate period, on being notified by the Company by registered mail to the employee's last knownaddress, with a copy of the letter to the President of Local 1476, fails to advise the Company with seven (7) calendar days of the date of the mailing of the registered letter, of the employee's intention to return to woifk. Such return to work, unless otherwise agreed by the Company, for reasonable cause, must be within two (2) workings days of receipt of the original notice.
(d)	Has been laid off for more than twelve (12) consecutive months. In the case ofiemployees with five (5) years' seniority or more, at the time of layoff, has been laid off for more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months; or, in the case of employees with ten (10) years' seniority
16
or more at the time off layoff, has been laid off for more than thirty-six (36) consecutive months.
(e)	If absent without le; ive for two (2) complete working days. An employee s considered absent without leave if no report is mad» to the Personnel office or the employee's shift sup srvisor by the end of their regular shift. Legitimate res sons for failing to comply with the foregoing will be tak in into consideration.
(0
(g)
Following a layoff for & determined period, fails, without permission of the (3( 'mpany, to report for work on the date and the time sfj ecified at the time of layoff.
Following a perioc of sick leave exceeding the
authorized absence
under Article 22,03 (e) (ii), fails to
provide requested rrjiedical certification.
11.04	It shall be the duty of employees to notify the Company promptly in writing of any change pf address or telephone. If an-employee fails to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of notice to reach |such employee.
11.05	An employee shall not suffer through accident or illness require proof of such ab^i statement from a Doctor of that the employee was unfit
loss of seniority owing to absence provided that the Company may ence in the form of a certified Medicine or Doctor of Chiropractic, for work on the day(s) in question.
17
ARTICLE 12 - TRANSFERS AND JOB POSTINGS
12.01	Definitions:
(a)	A transfer is the relocation of a seniority employee to a permanent vacancy in tlfe same or another department which resultsfrom an employee application, application of seniority, or other reason. Requests by seniority employees for change of shifts within a department shall not be considered as transfers and will only be granted on a "request if possible" basis.
(b)	A permanent vacancy is an opening within any classification of more th'an thirty (30) days duration. A vacancy created by an qmployee who is absent due to illness, injury, vacation or authorized leave of absence shall not be considered a permanent vacancy.
(c)	A general worker level shall be considered as the lowestjob classification in a department.
12.02	All permanent vacancies above the level of general workers, and newly created positions ab(j>ve the level of general worker in any department shall be pbsted for two (2) consecutive working days on a Company bulletin board before permanently filling such vacancy. An employee desiring such position must make application in writing to th£ Personnel Department within two (2) working days from the initial time of posting.
Employees on leave of absence of approved vacation will be considered for job vacancies or new positions above the level of general worker if application in writing is made to the Personnel Office within forty-thr^e (43) calendar days of the job
18
vacancy, or within two (2) Iworking days of return to work, whichever is the shorter period.
In the case of job vacancies department, a Courtesy No board so that applications f department may be considi remain posted for a minimui position is filled within forty-e posted, it will be subject to ch received for that period.
at the general worker level in any ce will be placed on the bulletin om within the plant regardless of red. Such Courtesy Notices will i of twenty-four (24) hours. If the ght (48) hours from time the notice ange based on further applications
The Company will provide ar answer to all applicants within ten (10) working days of the not ce removal.
The Company will notify t ie Union of the name(s) of the
successful appllcant(s) and place their name(s) on the plant bulletin board.
12.03	Employees wishing conside Transfer Application provide the Personnel Department, will notify transfer applicar applications. Failure to rene this notice will invalidate a I
12.04	Transfer applicants will b( vacancy. Transfer applicari accepted if they have be1 preceding six (6) months, eligible for transfer until th( service with the Company d applicants. Further, transf^
ation for transfer must complete a I by the company and present it to Periodically, the Personnel Office 9 of the necessity to renew their i within seven (7) calender days of msfer application.
considered at the time of a job for another department cannot be ji successfully transferred in the ewly hired employees will not be | have completed six (6)months' less there are no other successful ■ applicants will be interviewed by
19
the Personnel Manager (or designate) and evaluated in view of the requirements of the job vacancy. The person selected will be the person who in the judgment of the Company has the following:
(a)	Qualifications to perform the job
(b)	Ability to performthejob.
(c)	Qualities of reliability and responsibility.
(d)	Seniority will govern if other requirements are met.
Should the Company NOT chopse the most senior applicant from among present Company employees, the following documentation must be available for inspection by a member of the Union Executive.
Written examinations taken by both the applicant refused the position and the applicant accepted, will be in each employee's personnelfile. Also any trade certification or recommendations will be filed along with the hiring supervisor's written report on each person.
If the Union Executive representative wishes to inspect these documents it will be done iiji the presence of the hiring supervisor and the Personnel [Manager (or their designates) within seven (7) working days of the posted notice showing the successful applicant.
Any applicant with more seniority than the applicant accepted, will have the opportunity to discuss the refusal of their application and the reasons thereof, with the Supervisor of the
20
department doing the hiring n the presence of the Personnel Manager (or designate) anj i the employee's Union Steward before the notice showing th' successful applicant is posted.
None of the foregoing will pre :lude the Company going outside the Company for applicant , if suitable applicants are not available among the present employees.
12.05	A transferred employeewill etain the seniority of their former department or section for fc rty-five (45) working days, after which time seniority will be ti ansferred to the employee's new department.
12.06	Should a transferred employ ae prove unsatisfactory within a period of forty-five (45) working days of transfer, the employee will be returned to their form r position and department. If the employee's former position i a particular group or shift has been filled, the employee ma be compelled to go into another group or shift where there is i \ opening. Further, the employee will be advised of reasonsfor insatisfactory performanceby the Supervisor of the departmenl or section doing the hiring, in the presence of the Personnel Manage (or designate), and the employee's Union Steward.
12.07 Any seniority hourly employee transferring to the salaried staff
ofWaltec Plastics Division of for three (3) calendarmonths.
and be subjectto all terms of except the following:
Emco Limited will be on probation During this period the transferred
employeewill remain a senior ty Union member, pay Union dues
the existing Collective Agreement
(a) Rates of pay.
(b)	Hours of work.
(c)	Grievance procedures in regard to transfer from salaried back to hourly.
If, during the three (3) montn proDanon period the transferred employee is found unsuitable, or if the employee elects not to continue with the salaried position, the employee will be retumedto their former hourly position without loss of seniority.
If the employee has passed the salaried probationary period, but is still within twelve (12) calendar months of the original transfer and if for any reason either on behalf of the Company or on behalf of the employee there is a need to move from salaried back to hourly, the employee will be given the opportunity to accept a job which in the judgment of the Company is suitable to the employee's qualifications and ability in the Department employing the least senior person in the Company at that particular time. The employee will regain their seniority, including that time pqriod while on Waltec Plastics Division of Emco Limited salaried staff The least senior employee, then will be laid off.
If a seniority employee is permanently unable to perform their job due to health reasons, that employee will be given the opportunity to transfer to another job classification in any department, conditional uponthoir ability to perform the new job satisfactorily in the opinion of the Company and upon his having greater seniority than the person he displaces. The least senior person in the department would be laid off or given the opportunity for other work ifav$ilable. The employee making the transfer would retain seniority, but would receive effective immediately, the wage rate of the new job.
22
ARTICLE 13 - LAYOFFS AND RECALLS
13.01	Reductions of the work force with following procedures, employees remaining in the c qualified to perform the work Company will notify the e possible, but for lay-offs of rr Company will notify employe* the lay-off. The provisions c lack of work is occasionei Company’s control.
a)	In the event of a la] expected to exceed' apply in determining shift seniority within
b)	In the event of a laj five (5) working days I)
I) Inanydepartm necessary, pro will be laid off i
will be carried out in accordance jrovided in each case that the spartment are willing, capable and available. I n cases of lay-offs the nployees involved as early as >re than five (5) working days the s at least forty-eight hours prior to this section shall not apply if the by circumstances beyond the
■off in a department which is not ie (5) working days, seniority shall he reduction of the work force by ie department.
■off which is expected to exceed the following will govern.
nt where a work force reduction is ationary employees and students •st.
ii)	If further reduc ion to the work force is necessary in a departmei , regular employees will be laid off in inverse ordi ■ of departmental seniority.
iii)	Employees laid off as in ii) above, who have at least one (1) year's seniority, will be given the
23
opportunity to temporarily transfer into a departmental classification which they have successfully performed for forty-five (45) working days prior to such l&y-off, providing they have the necessary seniority to do so.
Employees who have demonstrated their ability to perform in more than one department must bump into the department employing the least senior employee.
Employees with six (6) years' seniority or more may elect to bump into any department employing a junior employee1 in any classification the more senior employee i4 capable to perform.
iv)	Employees who cannot transfer under iii) above will only have the right to transfer into a departmental classification which at the time is employing the least senior person in the Company and if this action is'taken, the least senior person will be laid off. If the job in the department which employs the leasttsenior person in the Company happens to be a job that cannot be performed by the person being laid off, the opportunity will pass to the department employing the next lowest senior person in trte Company.
v)	Regular employees who exercise their seniority and temporarily transfer to another department under lay-off cofiditions, shall have five (5) working days to Ireach an acceptable level of performance in th^ir new temporary classification
24
or be laid off.
vi)	Pay scale of jol to which employee transfers will apply immediat dy upon transfer.
vli) Regular employ ees who have elected temporary transfer in lieL of lay-off must return to their original job cla Sification and department when there is an inc base 'in the work force of their original depart nent and their former position again becomes available.
viil) Once a regulii! femployee with one (I) or more years seniority }lects lay-off in lieu of temporary transfer that e" filoyee shall not have the right to return to work 'htil recalled by the Company to that employee15 briginal job classification.
ix) Regular employ ees who have elected temporary transfer in lieu of lay-off retain the seniority for* their original d apartment as well as 'carry this same seniority to the department in which they have temporar ly transferred in the event of a further lay-off.
13.02
When there is an increase in will be recalled in order of sei
qualified to performthe work ^rity will accumulate si
s work force, laid off employees ity provided they are willing and lilable. During periods of layoff ct to the provisions of Article
13.03	No new employees will behirpo until all laid off employees who , are willing and qualified to po the jobs have been recalled,
25
subject to all other provisions of Article 13
13.04	Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Article, members of the Shop Committee shall, in the event of a layoff or recall, be considered as having the most seniority in the department, and shall be continued at work, ifvyork is available, provided they are willing and able to perform whatever work is then available
DepartmentalUnion Stewards will be considered as having the most seniority on their respective shifts in their department Where more than one (1) Steward in a department is entitled to super seniority by virtue of 6.02 or 13.05, then seniority as between themselves will be determined by their relative positions on the departmental seniority lists.
The Shop Committee, under the provisions of this Article, shall include all Departmental Union Stewards and Officers of the Local Union Executive.
13.05	No seniority employee will belpid off while a student remains employed, provided the employee is capable and willing to perform the job.
13.06	The parties agree that for purposes of layoff Technicians 1, 2 and 3 with a minimum of one (1) years' seniority shall not be effected by such layoff until a seniority level of seven (7) years is reached. Forthe purposeof recall, Technicians 1 and 2 with a minimum of one (1) year's sepiority shall be deemed to have five (5) years’ seniority.
It is further agreed that in thje event such employee may, provided he has greater seniority, elect to bump the least senior employee who's job he is qualified to perform in any
26
department
ARTICLE 14 ■ LEAVE OF ABSENCES
14.01	The Company may grant lei^'e of absence without pay to any employee for a legitimate peFsonal reason for up to three (3) months Any such person wH° is absent with written permission shall not be considered to Bei laid off, and their seniority shall continue to accumulateduriflP their absence.
To ensure fair treatment Of the intent of this clause, all applications for leave of absence will be reviewed by the Department Manager, the Peifsonnel Manager, and the General Manager.	'
14.02	Any leave of absence shall be confirmed in writing, and no such leave will affect any employes's seniority rights when used for the purpose granted. If an employee uses their leave of absence for any other purposf than the purpose for which it was granted, he may lose his seniority.
14.03	The Company will grant le*jfe of absence without pay to a maximum of two (2) delegate. Union members to attend Union Conventionsor Conferences br a maximum often (10) working days per year. Up to eight (8? additional working days leave of absence without pay will be considered for the delegated Union members if they are membij9 of the Executive Committee of the Ontario Joint Council art* are required to attend Regional Office meetings, providing sd'm leave will not critically affect the operation of the departmem concerned. In both cases, the Company must be notified in (writing at least seven (7) calendar days in advance of any requested leave of absence.
27
14.04	Bereavement
Should a death occur in the immediate family (wife, husband, child, mother, father, sister, brother,father-in-law-or mother-inlaw, grandparents, brother-in-law, sister-in-law of an employee or spouse), the Company will grant leave of absence for a period of not more than three (3) working days at the employee's basic hourly rate. Such leave of absence shall be granted provided:
(a)	The employee has completed his probationary period.
(b)	The leave of absence is for the days of funeral, or interment, or mourning period.
Saturdays, Sundays, paid holiday days and paid vacation leave are notworkingdays under this clause. Paid holidays and paid vacation days used as bereavement leave must be taken in the first available working days the employee was originally scheduled to return to work.
Incases of deferred interment, the employeecan elect to defer bereavementday(s) untilthattime provided the actual interment day is taken as bereavement leave and the Company is notified of the employee's intention. Should deferred interment take place on a weekend, the working day(s) nearest the interment day would be taken.
"Common-law" relationships :will be deemed to exist for purposes of this and other benefit clauses where an employee has filed an appropriate declaration no less than once per year
28
14.05	Court Appearances
If an employee is called for 1 Crown as a witness, the 0 between the daily pay and straight time pay, for any normally worked. This will b costs or reimbursements. T Company, the necessary doc
'try Duty or subpoenaed by the mpany will pay the difference he employee's normal regular ay the employee would have exclusive of any transportation employee must supply to the
nents to verify reimbursements If the employee reports for [court appearances (referred to above) and then is released tor the balance of the day, he will be expected to report to worn as soon as possible that day.
The Company will grant leQve of absence with pay to an employee whose child of lesijthan sixteen (16) years of age is subpoenaed by the Crown asj a witness.
The employee's Supervisor mjust be notified at the time of Jury Duty notification or subpoena <md the usual written authorization signed.
14.06	Union Officers will be gramea nme off without pay to attend Executive meetings of the Union Local provided that the meetings are scheduled s that the majority of Officers attending would not normal 1 be on shift at that time. The Company must be notified in /riling at least seven (7) calendar days in advance of any requ sted leave of absence.
14.07	If an employee fails to reportj for work at the expiration of any leave granted, he shall be deemed to have resigned unless excused by the Company.
29
14.08	The Company will grant three.(3) days leave of absence to expectant fathers at the time of their child's birth. Such leave of absence will be with pay. The employee's Supervisor must be notified in advance with as much notification time as practical and the usual written authorization signed.
14.09	Leave of absence with pay, up to a maximumof one (1) day, will be granted to the appropriate department Union Steward, to attend the funeral of an employee of the Company
14.10	Leave of absence may be granted to delegated Union members to attend Union sponsored safety and/or education seminars to a maximum of ten (10) working days per employee per year Leave of absence will not be refused unless it will critically affect the operation of the department involved.
14.11	All written requests for leave of absence to be answered within three (3)working days.
ARTICLE 15 - NOTICES AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
15.01	All Union bulletins to be posted in the plant must have prior approval of both the local Union President (or Union authorized signing officer), and the Personnel Manager (or designate) These approved UnionBulletinb shall only be posted on bulletin boards provided by the Company.
Further,the Union agrees that itwill not distribute any pamphlet, circular or petition in the Plarit without prior approval of the Personnel Manager (or desigriate).
ARTICLE 16- REPORTING ALLOWIaNCE
16.01	If an employee reports for w usual shift and on time, thi number of hours pay equ regular shift at no less tha notified previously by the Co by notice on the bulletin t employee's residence pro Company, the employee sti hours equivalent to half of tl reasonable alternate work i provided further that there i part of the Company to pay of work is occasioned by circ control.
16.02	If an employee is asked to a hours, and if it is not an exter of the regular shift, the emp An employee working any t times the straight hourly rate excess of two (2) hours or overtime provisions of Articl
If, for their own convenienc later instead of extending the overtime instead of "CALL-I
The Union recognizes the employee to work for the ful
>rk at the commencement of their f shall be entitled to a minimum alent to half of the employee's their regular payroll rate unless ipany not to report, either orally or >ard, or by message left at the ided that, if requested by the ill perform a minimum number of s employee's regular shift of such s the Company may assign: and lall be no such obligation on the ny reporting allowance if the lack imstances beyond the Company's
ne back to work after their regular lion of their regular shift at the end lyee is entitled to "CALL-IN" pay! ne up to two (2) hours at two (2) Time worked by an employee in "CALL-IN" will be subject to the 21.04.
, an employee chooses to return r shift, it will be considered normal
Company's right to request the time paid on "CALL-IN".
31
16.03	If an employee is designated on the Stand-by Duty Roster for a weekend or Company recognized holiday, the effected employee will receive two (2) hours pay per Stand-by day at the employee's regular hourly rate.
The inclusion of an individual’s name on Stand-by Duty Roster is voluntary. However, once it is included it must remain for a three (3) month cycle. If anyone "trades-off" a weekend, the posted list must be changed by Friday 10:00 a.m. at the latest by the person originally designated for duty.
16.04	Ifan employee is contacted while on vacation and subsequently voluntarily agrees to work for any period during that vacation, they will receive 1 1/2 times their normal wage rate for that period. Also the equivalent time worked will be granted at a later date as regular vacation.
ARTICLE 17 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
17.01	It is agreed that it is to the advantage of both the Company and the employees to utilize all possible technological variation, automation, and scientific improvements.
17.02	It is agreed that for the purpose of this Article, technological changes shall be defined as thb effect upon employees of the permanenteliminationof an operator or majority of an operator's time brought about by major changes in machinery design. This, in noway, is to be interpreted in a manner which would prevent the Company from making normal improvements and savings through increased efficiency or establishing new work standards by altering or improving the production methods and efficiency of machinery or personnel, provided such acts are
32
consistent with the terms of [this Agreement.
17.03	The Company shall notify t|ie Union not less than thirty (30) calendar days before the Introduction of any technological change and shall endeavour to furnish all information necessary to an understanding of the proposed change and shall discuss with the Union methods of achieving the change to ensure that the interest of the Company and the employees are fairly and effectively protected.
17.04	In additionto noticeof separation any employee discharged by the Company as the resul: of technological change will be eligible for a severance al owance on the basis of one (1) week's pay at their straight tiine hourly rate for each full year ol seniority to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks' pay.
Severance pay will be paid to the severed employee each regular pay day until the maximum severance pay has been paid to the employee as sxplained in this clause. If the employee is rehired during the period that he is entitled to severance pay - severance pay will cease immediately on rehiring. If an employee is willing to accept another position in the department in lieu of severance, employees will be given this opportunity in order cf seniority if such positions are available, tf the employes accepts a new job in lieu of severance he shall then receive the rate of his former job for a period of one (1) week for ench six (6) months of seniority with a maximum of thirteen (13) weeks and a minimum of three (3) weeks.
17.05	In the event a technological change creates a job classification that immediately requires sf illed employees the Company will have the right to hire skijled employees. If, however, a
33
technological change creates a job classification whereby the Company has sufficient time to tifain present employees for this position, then the employees in the department will be given the opportunity, in order of seniority, to train for the position, provided in the judgment of the Company the employee or employees concerned have the necessary qualifications to be trained for the job.
17,06	When a technological change creates a newjob classification the Company will set the rate of pay for this job. If the rate is not satisfactory to the employee concerned it may become the subject of a grievance.
ARTICLE 18 - COMPANY RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
18.01	The following days are Company recognized holidays for the purpose of this Agreement.
(i) The day designated is the day before Christmas unless that day is a Saturday or Sunday, then a day in the week following Christmas.
(jj) The floating holiday will! be observed annually on a day to be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union. However, in the event the Federal Government
New Year’s Day Good Friday Easter Monday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Eve (i) Christmas Day Boxing Day
One Floating Holiday (ii)
Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
34
legislated Heritage l|)ay, the floating holiday will be observed on the day (so designated.
Christmas Shutdown Days and Floating Holiday will be as follows:
1.995
December 25, 1995 December 26, 1995 December 27, 1995
1996
January 1, 1996 June 28, 1996 July 1,1996 December24, 1996 December25, 1996 December26,1996
1991
January 1, 1997 June 30, 1997 July 1, 1997 December24, 1997 December25, 1997 December26, 1997
Monday Tiiiesday Wednesday	-	Christmas Eve -	Christmas Day - Boxing Day
Monday Frliday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday	- New Year's Day - Floater - Canada Day -	Christmas Eve -	Christmas Day - Boxing Day 1
Wednesday Monday ixesday ukdnesday lllursday Fllday	- New Year's Day - Floater - Canada Day -	Christmas Eve -	Christmas Day - Boxing Day
35
1998
January 1,1998 June 29,1988 June 30,1988
Thursday
Monday
Tuesday
- New Year’s Day - Floater • Canada Day
18.02	For all personnel, except injection, quality assurance, storekeeper and caretaker (when on twelve (12) hour shift, seven (7) day continuous operation) the above Company recognized holidays will be paid for regardless of when they fall Employees shall receive pay on the basis of their straight time hourly rate for the number of hours they would have worked if the holiday had been a normalwork day.
18.03	For all personnel, except injection, quality assurance, storekeeper and caretaker, (when on twelve (12) hour shift, seven (7) day continuous operation) in the event of a paid holiday falling on a Saturday, Sunday or during thdi vacation period, another day will be declared in lieu of the holiday.
18.04	Authorized work performed on a Company recognized holiday shall be paid for at two (2) times the basic straight time hourly rate of the individual plus holiday pay, where applicable.
18.05	In the case of injection, quality assurance, storekeeper, and caretaker, (when on twelve ("(2) hour shift, seven (7) day continuous operation), all Company recognized holidays have been traded off except Christmajs Eve, Christmas, Boxing Day, and New Year's Day. The above mentioned personnel will receive all Company recognized holidays, including the above named, when the injection department closes for Christmas holiday period.
Work performed by the ibove personnel on Company recognized holidays will be t two (2) times the basic straight time hourly rate, plusWeeke i Premiums if applicable. This will apply the day the Compai recognizes the holiday for the balance of the plant.
The above personnel at the I me of the Christmas shutdown will be paid eight (8) hours straic it time holiday pay for each of the Company recognizedholiday which have been included in their term of employment. Tweh 3 (12) hour shift employees who actually worked on a Comps ly recognized holiday will be paid twelve (12) hours holiday pa instead of eight (8) on trade-off at Christmas.
If an employee operating c the above schedule leaves the employ of the company for s ly reason he will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for ach of the Company recognized holidays, during the term of is employment, if the person has not already received holiday ay for that day, and if he complied with the terms of Article 18.( i.
Notwithstandingthe above | aragraph, if an employee was on the twelve (12) hour sch< lute and actually worked on a Company recognizedholida *uat employee, when leaving the Company for any reason, wi	:eive twelve (12) hours straight
time pay for each of the C	any recognized holidays they
worked during the term of e ayment, if that person has not already received holiday pay	hat day and if they comply with
the terms of Article 18.06.
37
18.06	Employees shall not be eligible for Company recognized holiday pay if they:
(a)	Have not completed their probationary period.
(b)	While on lay-off refuse work by not exercising their bumping rights or refuse call-in work having received at least twenty-four (24) hours prior notice.
(c)	Fail to work or complete the regular scheduled shift on the working day immediately prior to, and following the holiday, unless excused by the Company. When employees are absent (iue to illness, accident, layoff, approved vacation, or bereavement in the immediate family, provided evidence satisfactory to the Company is produced, then they shall be paid for any Company recognized holiday that arises. An employee will not lose holiday pay by being late on the shift before or after the holiday, as long as the lateness does not exceed one-half hour.
(d) .	In any event, an employee must have worked within the
three (3) week period immediately priorto the holiday, as well as the shift on the day before the holiday, except if on approved vacation, and as referred to in paragraph (b) to qualify for Company recognized holiday pay.
18.07	Any regular working day that isi traded with a Premium Day by mutual agreement betweenthel Company and the Union, shall be treated as a standard day ifor all terms of this Collective Agreement.
38
Any requestfor trade-off by production Departments should be
presented in writing to the Ci least thirty (30) calendar tf agreement, prior to the rea Company requests trade-o| same notice period shall ap|
ARTICLE 19 . VACATIONS WITH F
19.01	All employees who, on Jun number of years consecutiv schedule shall be entitled to the percentage of annual ed
Years of Senioiny uu June 30th
Up to three (3) months
Three (3) months but less than six (6) months
Six (6) months but less than five (5) years
Five (5) years but less than twelve (12) years
Twelve (12) years but less than twenty (20) years
Twenty (20) years and over
npany by the Union Executive at is, or shorter period by mutual ssted change. In the event the oy Production Departments, the
1
30th of any one year, have the service outlined in the following e number of weeks vacation and lings applicable thereto:
Vacation	Percent of
Time Annual Earnings
4%
1	week	4 % *
2	weeks	4 %
3	weeks	6 %
4	weeks	8 %
5	weeks	10%
Employees who are entitled to vacation period in excess of vacation plant shutdown shajll have their remaining vacation at
39
the time mutually agreed between the Company and the employee concerned. Where mutual agreement is not reached by December 31st, a maximum of one (1) week’s vacation time may be deferred to no later than March 31 st.
Vacation time taken after July 1st will be paid for in blocks of one (1)week.
19.02	Total annual earnings for vacation pay computation shall include the employee's total earnings in the preceding twelve (12) month period ending June 30th of the current vacation year.
Lost time from work, while receiving Workers' Compensation or Company Sick Benefit, shall be included in the Annual Earnings upon which vacation pay is calculated, as if the employee has received his full regular pay during such absence.
19.03	Employees leaving the Company's employ prior to the vacation shutdown will receive vacation pay on the basis set out in 19 01 on earnings since the previous computation date.
19.04	The Company at its discretion may shut down the plant for vacation period (normally during the two (2) weeks prior to Cmc Holiday), at which time the employees will take their vacation, if not required to work during this period. Notice of such vacation shutdown will be posted two (2) months prior to the vacation period.
19.05	An employee who becomes seriously disabled (e.g. requiring hospitalization) within three (3) weeks of the plant shutdown, and who is receiving Workers' Compensation or weekly indemnity benefits during the plant shutdown shall be entitled to
40
take vacation at a later date, is may be mutually agreed upon
ARTICLE 20 -WAGES
20.01	The Company agrees to pay. nd the Union agrees to accept for the term of this Agreement, t le schedule of job classifications and wage rates as set out in i ppendix "A Which is attached to and forms part of this Agreer ent.
There shall be weekly paymi nt of wages effective January 1, 1987,
20.02	In addition to the rates of >ay listed in Appendix "A' the Company will pay the followii g premiums:
Shift Premium
(a)	Injection, Quality Vssurance, Storeskeeper and Caretaker (when oi hift F).
For hours worked 1 m 7 p.m. to 7 a.m., 6% of bacw rate per hour.
(b)	All other Departmei is including above departments when on eight (8) he ir shift schedules.
Shift No. 1 - No Prer ium
Shift No. 2 - 4% of b se rate per hour
Shift No. 3 - 6% of b se rate per hour
41
Week-End Premiums
Injection, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper and Caretaker (when on shift F).
For hours worked from 7 a.m. Saturday to 7 a.m Sunday, 12% of base rate per hour.
For hours worked frorii 7 a.m. Sunday to 7 a.m Monday, 20% of base rdte per hour.
If schedules are started involving Saturday or Sunday as part of a regular schedule, other than the twelve (12) hour schedule as mentioned above, weekend premiums will be negotiated. If agreement is not reached within sixty (60) days, voluntary binding arbitration will be invoked.
20.03	An employee temporarily transferred to another job for a period of fourteen (14) working days or less will receive the rate of the job to which the employee is transferred or the rate of the previously heldjob, whichever is higher. This fourteen (14) day period may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the employee. An employed transferred in lieu of layoff or attheirown request will receivethe rate of the job to which the employee is transferred.
20.04	It is agreed that the Company has the option to apply rates above the scheduled hiring rates when persons hired have previous experience either withlthis Company or elsewhere.
20.05	There shall be no pyramiding'of any premium or overtime payment with any other premium or overtime payment.
42
Overtime will be calculated or other premiums will then
20.06	An employee suffering a employment who is requirec paid to the end of their regu
The Company reserves tb injuries on Company pre investigation it is found that leave the plant premises £ employee will not be paid a!
20.07	In addition to the rates of pa C”, a Cost of Living Allc percentage increase in the ( = 100) as published by Si increase in the C.P.I. will be rate of pay as set out in "W payable as follows:
n base rates only, shift premiums e added.
injury in the course of their o leave the plant premises, will be ir shift.
right to investigate all reported nises, and if through medical he employee was not required to the time of the injury, then the provided above.
outlined in Appendices "A, B. and /ance (C.O.L.A.) of .65 of the Dnsumer Price Index (C.P.I. 1986 itistics Canada for each full 0.2 alculated based on an employee’s ge Appendices" and will become
COLA adjustment to comme ice beginningwith the first full pay period after the publicatio of any index exceeding 1.075 multiplied by the August 19: 5 C.P.I.. The maximum payment under this paragraph will tx 2% of an employee's hourly rate
during this term.
In the case of decreases in he C.P.I. the COLA, if any, will be reduced on the same fom ula as increases are calculated. Hours granted for recogniz !d holidays will be considered as worked hours for the purpo; e of this clause.
At September 20,1998, the SOLA, if any, will be folded into the
43
base rate.
20.08	A payment of five ($5.00) dollars will be made to each certified First Aid Attendant at the end of each calendar quarter.
ARTICLE 21 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
21.02	This Article defines the Normal hours of work and provides the basis for calculating overtime. It shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours per day or per week, or days of work per week or as a restriction on the scHeduling of a longer or shorter day or work week whenever, in the opinion of the Company, it is necessary to meet business requirements.
21.02	The following shall be the standard shifts of the Company:
A One (1) shift per day.
Shift Times:	8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon
12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Rest Periods:	Two (2) fifteen (15) minute per shift
(paid)
Lunch Period:-	One (1) thirty (30) minute per shift
(unpaid)
B Two (2) shifts per day in a servicfe department.
Shift Times: Shift 1 -	8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon
12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Shift 2-
3:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
44
7:30 p.m. to 11:00 pm
Rest Periods:	|Two (2) fifteen (15) minute per shift
((paid)
Lunch Period:	'One (1) thirty (30) minute per shift
((unpaid on day shift, paid on |afternoon shift)
C Two (2) shifts per day in a production department not requiring continuous operation durinjg restand lunch periods.
ShiftTimes: Shift 1 •	7:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.
11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
Shift 2-	3:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
8:00 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.
Rest Period:	ITwo (2) fifteen (15) minute per shift
i (paid)
Lunch Period:	One (1) thirty (30) minute per shift
(unpaid on day shift, paid on afternoon shift)
D Two (2) shifts per day ini a production department requiring continuous machine operation during restand lunch periods.
ShiftTimes: Shift 1 -	7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
Shift2-	3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
45
Shift 1 -
Rest Periods:
Lunch Period:
E. Three (3) shifts per day. Shift Times: Shift 1 -Shift 2 -Shift 3 -
Rest Periods:
Lunch Period:
variations:
6:00 a.m.to 2:00 p.m.
7:00 a.m.to3:00 p.m.
8:00 a.m.to4:00 p.m.
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
One (1) fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid)
One (1) thirty (30) minute per shift (paid)
7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
One(1) fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid)
One (1) thirty (30) minute per shift (paid)
F. Twelve (12) hours per day and thirty-six (36)hours per week, when three (3) shifts fall between? a.m, Sunday and 7 a.m. the following Sunday or it will be twdlve (12) hours per day and forty-eight (48) hours per week wh|en four (4) shifts fall between 7 a.m. Sunday and 7 a.m. the following Sunday all in accordance with the printed schedule.
Shift Times: Day-Night-
7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Rest Periods:	One (1)fifteen (15) minute per shift
'(paid)
Lunch Periods:	Two (2) thirty (30) minute per shift
(paid)
Note 1:
The timing of the rest periods in all departments are to be scheduled by the Company. An employeewilt normally take his first break no earlier than II 1/2 hour and no later than 3 hours into his shift.
Note 2:
The present schedules ar as follows:
AorB Plant Servii ss, Materials Handling excludi..0 Storeskeepc and Caretakers
C	Not present! used
D	Plating
E	Injection, Compression,	Finishing, Quality
___-..wo, i>toreskeeper and Caretakers
47
The Company reserves the right to alter any or all of the above schedules by advising the employees in the department or job classification concerned and thej Union at least seven (7) working days priorto the above shift schedules, unless a shorter period is mutually agreeable to thd parties to this Agreement.
The shift schedules as set out in Article 21 may not be changed without a consultation meeting between management and the Union to discuss alternatives.
Where more than one shift in a department is outlined in this Agreement, Shift 2 and Shift 3 will be filled on a rotation basis if volunteers are not available. Rotations will not be longer than two (2) week intervals.
A new shift starting after 9 p.m. cr ending before 8 a.m. shall include a paid thirty (30) minute lupch break.
Note 3:
Notwithstanding the above for the life of this Collective Agreement, except by negotiation:
(a)	Injection, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper, and Caretakers who are in the Company's employ as of July 17,i 1978 will not be requested to work on a sdhedule that includes Saturday or Sunday ad part of a regular schedule, other than the! standard F shift as defined in this Agreement.
(b)	In all other departments, any personnel who are in the Company's employ as of July 17,
48
D«
U',
1978, win noi schedule that incl part of a regular^
requested to work on a 'des Saturday or Sunday as Tiedule
21.03	Overtime hours are those worked in excess of the standard daily or weekly hours as listed in this Article However, for the purpose of this Article onlyt overtime hours for Injection, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper and Caretaker will be defined as those hours in excess ef thirty-six (36) hours per week when three (3) shifts fall betWeen 7 a.m. Sunday and 7 a.m the following Sunday, or forty (40) hours per week when four (4) shifts fall between 7 Sunday and 7 a.m. the following Sunday
21.04	Overtime will be paid at th^ rate of time and one half (1 1/2) the employee's regular rate for time worked in excess of regular weekly hours up to and including four (4) hours, except in the case of Sunday or Company recognized holiday where double time will apply. Time worked over four (4) hours in excess of regular weekly hours will be paid at two (2) times the< employee's regular rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the standard weekly hours must be worked subject to the provisions of 21.05.
Should an employee fail lb complete his standard work week and that failure is not occasioned by the provisions of 21.05, then, the above overtime hours, beginning with those overtime hours in excess of four (4), shall be forfeited to make up the hours of the standard workweek and the hours so forfeited shall be payable at the employee's regular rate.
49
For the purpose of this Article Sunday shall be:
Injection, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper and Caretaker
From7 a.m. Sunday to 7 a.m. Monday
All other departments
From 11 p.m. Saturday to 11 p.m, Sunday
21.05	Notwithstanding the provisionsof21.04 above, it is agreed that if an employee works in excess of their standard daily hours in anyone (1)day and issubsequentiy preventedfrom completing his standard work week, overtlmelwill be paid if that failure to complete is occasioned by:
(a)
(b)
IS!
(e)
(0
Company layoff;
illness, providedthat the Company shall have the right
to require validation of sucjih illness;
absence for work for reasbnable cause;
a Company recognized hpliday;
with prior permission of Company;
lateness up to one (1) hoiir.
21.06	Employees are expected to cooperate and perform overtime work when requested to do so by the Company. However, no employee will be penalized if overtime is refused.
21.07	The Company will endeavour to distribute overtime as fairly as possible.
21.08	The Company will endeavourto provide employeeswith at least forty-eight (48) hours notice befori scheduling overtime hours.
50
When overtime extends tv shift, and overtime notice a Meal Allowance of $8 September 19, 1996. September 19, 1997, t September 19, 1997, the Meal Allowance will be n contacted prior to their shii hours or more earlier thar
21.09	Employees are required tc shift supervisor before th< not expect to report to woi after the start of their regi
i (2) hours or more beyond a regular 3 not given prior to the current shift, |Q will be paid to employees until rom September 20, 1996 until e amount will be $9.00. After amount will be $10.00. The same ide to an employee who has been and asked to come to work three (3) their regular starting time.
:ontact the Personnel Office or their start of their regular shift, if they do , or at the latest within one (1) hour ar shift.
21.10	Ifan employee is sent hor e between midnight and 6 a.m. and does not have private tram >ortation available, the Company will pay taxi fare to the emplo se's home.
21.11	For overtime work on proc iction machine operations, overtime operators shall be permitt d to change machines at the end of the regulardaily shiftprovi ed that request is madepriorto shift change and the operator s qualified to operate the alternate
machine.
21.12	In cases of overtime as ah extension of a normal work day, a paid fifteen (15) minute b ak will be provided at the beginning of the overtime and at 1 a beginning of each two (2) hours worked thereafter.
21.13	Ifan employee is reassig id from the shift he would otherwise have been working on to i different shift the Company shall give seven (7) calendar days r tice. This does not apply to changes
51
seven (7) calendar days notice. Thip does not apply to changes resulting from switches with other employees, overtime, normal shift rotations, call-in, layoff, a fchange agreed to by the employee or emergencies which will critically affect the operation of the department involved.
21.14	Principles of Training Participation and Pay forTraining
1.	Training is a shared responsibility between the Company and employee ahd both parties benefit from the training.
2.	Participation in training outside of normal working hours is voluntary.
Company Initiated Training
3.	An employee involved in training will be paid at the employee's regular hourly rate. Shift premiums will apply if the training occurs during the employee's normal "B” or"C" shift.
4.	Training provided for employees within the plant or in Midland will be scheduled in the following order of preference:
5.
a)
b)
c)
during regular shift
within forty (40)houife per week
over forty (40) hours! per week
In all cases pay for Comps ny initiated training shall be at straight time and time [spent in training will not be r.nn side red time wnrken fnr overtime calculation
providing that the combined hours spent in training and hours worked do n 3t exceed forty-six (46) hours total in any one (1) week'> In the event that such combined hours exceed forty six(46) hours normal overtime rates will apply to hours r excess of forty-six (46) hours
6. Where Company sponsored training takes place outside Midland (i i. Barrie, Toronto, Detroit, etc.) an employee may be equired to travel on their own time. If such training tal< js place over a continuous number of days, the emplo ee will normally be paid for eight (8) hours per’day regardless of whether the training is longer or shorter than eight (8) hours per day.
Employee Initiated Courses
7.
Where an emplo; with potential wor personal upgradi will be advanced If the employees the advance will • successfully com forgiven and the
Company.
b initiates participation in a course elated benefit but also for their own and advancement, the employee nds for tuition and books up front., ws proof of successful completion, e forgiven. If the course is not sted, 50% of the advance will be 3ther 50% will be repaid to the
Time spent in the employee initiated courses will not be paid. In order to be entitled for reimbursement there must be advanci written approval by the Personnel Department. Det rmination of whether the course has work-related ben fit will be the sole judgment of the Personnel Depar nent.
53
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
22.01	All full-time employees who qualify under the terms of the underwriters contracts shall become eligible for Company paid benefits on the first day following the expiration of their probationary period.
22.02	The Company will provide and pay the full cost of the following employee benefits for all eligible employees and eligible dependents as "defined" in thd agreements or contracts between the Company and the Contract Holders. In the case of premium cost reduction on any Company paid benefits, the Company will receive the benefit Of the decrease.
22.03	Schedule of Company paid benefits:
(a)	London Life Healthcarel (formerly 1982 Blue Cross) including semi-private hosjpital and a one dollar ($1.00) deductible prescription dfug provision (or equivalent coveragewith anotherinsOrer), and including a $100.00 per person annual Chiropractic benefit in insurer’s standard terms.
(b)	London Life (or equivalent) Dental Plan fixed at 1392
ODA until September 30, [1996, From October 1,1996 until September 30, 1997, 1994 ODA rates will apply. Effective October 1, 1997, 1995 ODA rates will apply and coverage will include 75% coverage for Root Canals and Dentures to & maximum of $1,000.00 per person each 36 month period.
54
(c)	Group Life Insi ance and Accidental Death and Dismembermen A.D. and D. Plan) to a maximum of $22,500.00
(d)	Sickness and Accidental Benefit
(i) For comperisable accidents the employee will receive norrial wages for remainder of shift on day of accidrnt.
df
In cases sickness, tH€l of continued the employ^® beginning hospitalizatl^l to the end waiting perl waived if t) weeks or me
non-compensable disability or insuring Company, upon verification | disability or illness, will reimburse 66-2/3% of their basic rate of pay, Ph the 1st day of accident or ji, the4th day of sickness, continuing * the 26th week. The three (3) day for the sickness benefit will be sickness lasts two (2) calendar re.
I>fcl
(e)	One thousand ($1,000.00) dollars, paid up Life Insurance upon, retirement (age 60, effective September 20, 1792) providing the retiring employee has at leastfifteel (15) years (effective September 20, 1992) continuous service with the Company.
(f) The Company w|i employee owned Coverage will be rates and the sch
ill pay fire and theft insurance on lools while on the Company premises, limited to the deductible and maximum leduling requirements.
55
(g) Vision Care to a maximumof $100.00 per person every two (2) years effective October 1,1997.
22.04	The Company provides a "Contributory" Pension Plan for all eligible employees. Pensionbeneflfewill be based on calendar years of service with employee contributions monthly (based on time worked) as follows:
Years of Service	Monthly Benefit per Year of Servic^	Employee Monthly Contribution
1991 - 1996	$23.00	$17.00
1997	$24.75 '	$18.00
1998	$26.50	$19.00
22.05	Benefits (excluding Pension) coverage during sickness, and injury: During periods of certified ^ick leave, the Company will pay thefull costof benefitsfor ellgib[le employees for a minimum of two (2) full calendar months dnd a maximum of two (2) months of benefits for each year Of service to a maximum of twelve (12) months.
Benefits during period of approved leave of absence will be continued for thirty (3 ^calendar days only.
Benefitsduring periods of compensable injury will be paid by the Company.
Notwithstanding all circumstances above, extension or continuation of benefit coverage shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Contract Holder.
56
22.06	Employees should contact the Personnel Office to obtain the necessary application forms for Sickness and Illness Benefits The Personnel Departmsnt will furnish, if necessary, claim application forms for any gfher employee benefit.
22.07	Benefits will terminate for employees who are laid off at the end of the month following the month of layoff. Benefits will recommence at the date of rehire.
In the case of Healthcari carried through the Com duration of layoff, for a or
i and Dental benefits, these may be pany on a pay direct basis, for the e(1)year period only.
Premiums for these be afits will be the responsibility of the employee, who must i ake the appropriate arrangements through the Personnel 0 ice. Premiums for the month in which a rehire occurs will b< shared by the Company and the employee, pro-rated ac ording to the number of days the employee was actually c nployed during the month of recall.
ARTJCLE.23-^SAEETY.ANCLHdALTH
23.01	The Company agrees t< make reasonable provisions for the safety and health cf its e nployees during their working hours, and the Union agrees to ooperate in the observance of safety rules and regulationsof le Company.
The Company agrees I at the Safety Committee will meet monthly. A minimum oft ie (1) Union representative from each plant and one (1) Manag ment representative shall be certified members.
57
23.02	Employees with one (1) year’s seniority or more who are required to wear safety footwear will be allowed a subsidy of a maximum of two (2) pair of safety shoes in any one (1) year period as follows:
The Company will pay the 1p0% cost of the first pair of safety shoes up to a maximum of seventy ($70.00) dollars, and the cost of a second pair up to a maximum of forty ($40.00) dollars or 50% of the purchase price, whichever is the lesser.
The Company will provide one (1) pair cf prescription safety glasses per year, i where required, to each employee. Design and supplier to be designated by the Company.
ARTICLE 24- NOTIFICATION
24.02	Except as otherwise provided, an)) notices which either party desires to give the other shall be given by registered mail.
(a) To the Company:
Waltec Plastics Division ofEmco Limited 320 Elizabeth Street MIDLAND, Ontario L4R 4L6
58
(b)	TotheUnioi:
Ontario Joint Council Office UNITE
15 Gervais ^rive Suite 700
DON MILLS, Ontario M3C 1Y8
(c)	To the Pres lent, UNITE. Local 1476 Currently
MIDLAND, intario
ARTICLE 25 - DURATION AND TERMINATION
25.01	This Agreement shall be 20. 1995 to the 19th of automatically continue tl
year each, unless either the period of ninety (90) i that it desires to amer negotiations shall star! following such notificatio
25.02	If the parties enter intone this Agreement and agre this Agreement is not re date hereof, the term automatically extended u or completion of the con* the Labour RelationsAcI fourteen (14) calenda
onsidered effective from September eptember 1998 inclusive, and shall ireafter for annual periods of one (1)
arty notifies the other in writing within, lendar days before the date of expiry or terminate the Agreement, and within fifteen (15) calendar days
otiations for the purpose of amending nent to the renewal of amendment of :hed prior to the normal termination ation of this Agreement shall be II consummation of a new Agreement iation proceedings prescribed under 1980 of the Province of Ontario, and days following issuance of the
59
Conciliation Boards report thereunderifif any), whichever should occur first
This instrument and the exhibits attached hereto and made part . hereof constitute the entire agreement between the parties.
INWITNESSWHEREOFeachofthe parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be signed by their duly authorized
representatives as of this 27th day of hmch______
__________ 199$
FORWALTEC PLASTICS DIVISION OF EMCO LIMITED.
H DEJONG
, OIRECTOffOfH.R.
EMCO CUSTOM PRODUCTS
104-

f. DESJARDINS, PERS ONNEL MANAGER
D. WEBSTER,' FINAN CIAL MANAQER/HERITAGE COACH.
FOR UNION OF NEEDLEll
•»/6
.<( i MEMBER
ai £
.. MURPHY
^RESIDENT
J<!
HY, SERGEANT-^
ARMS
___________________________|--
M. PILON, NEGOTIATING IV ^BER
.«tac-u<*aeto"-x&Ss----- ------------
-"'J. QUESNELLE. NEGOTIATE IG MEMBER
FOR THE ONTARIO JOINT ( bUNCIL, UNITE, AFL-CIO.CLC V
.. __________________________________
61
WAGE APPENDIX
The wage progression for persons hired after September 19, 1988, as a % of the top rate for each blassification, shall be:
on hiring-	90%
3 months -	94%
6 months -	97%
9 months -	100%
The starting rate for an employee who has changed classifications shall be the 6 month rate except where the employee had previously attained the top rate for that classification.
62
APPENDIX "A" WAGE SCHEDULE
SEPTEMBER 18,1995 - SEPTEMBER 19,1996
	HIRING	3 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	9 MONTHS
Compression Operator	11.60	12.11	12.49	12.87
Tech. Grade 3	12.08	12.62	13.03	13.41
Tech. Grade 2	13.09	13.67	14.10	14.54
Tech. Grade 1	14.16	14.79	15.27	15.76
Lead Hand				16.34
Co-Ordinator				17.49
				
Finisher	11.26	11.77	12.14	12.52
Caretaker	11.40	11.91	12.30	12.67
Silkscreener	11.52	12.02	12.40	12.78
Tech. Grade 3	12.02	12.56	12.96	13.35
Tech. Grade 2	12.45	13.00	13.41	13.83
Tech. Grade 1	13.34	13.93	14.38	14.82
Lead Hand				15.41
Spray Painter 2	11.60	12.09	12.49	12.87
Spray Painter 1	11.95	12.49	12.89	13.28
				
Injection Operator	11.49	11.98	12.37	12.75
Grinding Tech	12.08	12.62	13.03	13.41
63
	HIRING	3 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	0" 9 MONTHS
1 Tech. Grade 3	12.08	12.62	13.03	13.41
Storeskeeper	12.89	13.45	13.89	14.32
Tech. Grade 2	13.09	13.67	14.10	14.54
Tech. Grade 1	14.16	14.79	15.27	15.76
Lead Hand				16.34
				
Stockhandler	11.85	12.38	12.77	13.14
Stockhandler LeadHand				13-.63
Co-Ordinator				14.88
				
Caretaker	11.40	11.91	12.30	12.67
Head Caretaker	11.89	12.42	12.82	13.23
Maintenance Assistant	11.60	12.09	12.49	12.87
Tech. Grade 3	12.47	13.03.	13.43	13.85
Tech. Grade 2	13,28	13.87	14.31	14.75
Tech. Grade 1	15.06	15.73	16.23	16.73
Electric Specialist	15.06	15.73	16.23	16.73
Maint. LeadHand				17.30
I Maint. Co-Ordinator				19.04
				I
	HIRING	I 3 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	9 MONTHS
Toolmaker Assistant	12.44	12.99	13.40	13.82
Toolmaker Grade 4	13.72	14.33	14.78	15.26
Toolmaker Grade 3	14.73	15.39	15.89	16.38
Toolmaker Grade 2	15.67	16.36	16.88	17.40
Toolmaker Grade 1	16.50	17 24	17.79	18.33-
Toolmaker Leadhand				18.91
Toolmaker CoOrdinator				20.08
				
Packer	11.27	11.77	12.14	12.53
Tech. Grade 3	12.02	12.56	12.96	13.35
Tech. Grade 2	12.45	13.00	13.41	13.83
Tech. Grade 1	13.34	13.93	14.38	14.82
Lab Technician	13.34	13.93	14.38	14.82
Plating CoOrdinator				16.35
				
Q.A. Operator	11.47	11.97	12.36	12.74
Inspector Assistant	11.71 .	12.23	12.62	13.02
Inspector Grade 2	12.88	13.44	13.87	14.31
I Inspector Grade 1	13.29	13.88	14.33	14.77
65
		3 i	6	9 1
	HIRING	MONTH?	MONTHS	MONTHS
Lead Hand				15.35 ||
66
APPENDIX "BM WAGE SCHEDULE
|MBER19,1997
	HIRING	3 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	9 MONTHS
Compression . Operator	11.83	12.35	12.74	13.13
Tech. Grade 3	12.32	12.87	13.29	13.68
Tech. Grade 2	13.35	13.94	14.38	14.83
Tech. Grade 1	14.44	15.09	15.58	16.08
Lead Hand				16.67
Co-Ordinator				17.84
				
Finisher	11.49	12.01	12.38	12.77
Caretaker	11.63	12.15	12.55	12.92
Siikscreener	11.75	12.26	12.65	13.04
Tech. Grade 3	12.26	12.81	13.22	13.62
Tech. Grade 2	12.70 I	13.26	13.68	14.11
Tech. Grade 1	13.61 j	14.421	14.67	15.12
Lead Hand	' f i			15.72
Spray Painter 2	11.83 |	12.33	12.74	13.13
Spray Painter 1	12.19	12.74	13.15	13.55
	i.			
Injection Operator	11.72 |	12.22	12.62	13.00
Grinding Tech	12.32 !	12.87	13.29	13.68
67
	HIRING	months!	6 MONTHS	9 MONTHS
Tech. Grade 3	12.32	12.87 i	13.29	13.68
Storeskeeper	13.15	13.72 :	14.17	14.61
Tech. Grade 2	13.35	13.94	14.38	14.83
Tech. Grade 1	14.44	15.09	15.58	16.08
Lead Hand				15.67
				
Stockhandler	12.09	12.63	13.03	13.40
Stockhandler LeadHand '				13.90
Co-Ordinator				15.18
				
Caretaker	11.63	12.15	12.55	12.92 |
Head Caretaker	12.13	12.67 ;	13.08	13.49
Maintenance Assistant	11.83	12.33 i	12.74	13.13
Tech. Grade 3	12.72	13.29 |	13.70	14.13
Tech. Grade 2	13.55	14.15 !	14.60	15.05
Tech. Grade 1	15.36	16.04;	16.55	17.06
Electric Specialist '	15.36	16.04	16.55	17.06
Maint. LeadHand		j		17.65
Maint. Co-Ordinator		j		19.42
				
68
	HIRING	3 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	' 9 MONTHS
| Toolmaker Assistant	12.69	13.25	13.67 ■	14.10
Toolmaker Grade 4	13.99	14.62	15.08	15.57
Toolmaker Grade 3	15.02	15.70	16.21	16.71
Toolmaker Grade 2	15.98	16.69	17.22	17.75
Toolmaker Grade 1	16.83	17.58	18.15	18.70
Toolmaker Leadhand				19.29
Toolmaker CoOrdinator				20.48
				
Racker	11.50	12.01	12.38	12.78
Tech. Grade 3	12.26	12.81	13.22	13.62
Tech. Grade 2	12.70 j	13.26	13.68	14.11
Tech. Grade 1	. 13.61	14.21	14.67	15.12
Lab Technician	13.61	.14.21	14.67	15.12
Plating CoOrdinator				16.68
				
Q.A. Operator	11.70	12.21	12.61	12.99
Inspector Assistant	11.94	12.47	12.87	13.28
Inspector Grade 2	13.14	13.71	14.15	14.60
| InspectorGrade 1	13.56	14.16	14.62	15,07
69
	HIRING	3 | MONTHS	6 MONTHS	9 MONTHS
Lead Hand				15.66
70
APPENDIX "C" WAGE SCHEDULE
SEPTEMBER 20,1997 - SEPTEMBER 19,1998
		3	6	.
	HIRING	MONTHS	MONTHS	MONTHS
Compression Operator	12.07	12.60	12.99	13.39
Tech. Grade 3	12.57	13.13	13.56	13.95
Tech. Grade 2	13.62	14.22	14.67	15.13
Tech. Grade 1	14.73	15.39	15.89	16.40
Lead Hand				17.00
Co-Ordinator				18.20
				
Finisher	11.72	12.25	12.63	13.03
Caretaker	11.86	12.39	12.80	13.18
Silkscreener	11.98	12.51	12.90	13.30
Tech. Grade 3	12.51	13.07	13.48	13.89
Tech. Grade 2	12.95	13.53	13.95	14.39
Tech. Grade 1	13.88	14.491	14.96	15.42
Lead Hand				16.03
Spray Painter 2	12.07	12.58	12.99	13.39
Spray Painter 1	12.43	12.99	13.41	13.82
				
injection Operator	11.95	12.46	12.87	13.26
Grinding Tech	12.57	13.13	13.56	13.95
71
	HIRING	3 ! MONTH$	6 MONTHS	9 I MONTHS |
Tech. Grade 3	12.57	13.13 1	13.56	13.95 J
Storeskeeper	13.41	13.99	14.45	14.90
Tech. Grade 2	13.62	14.22:	14.67	15.13 I
Tech. Grade 1	14.73	15.39	15.89	16.40 I
| Lead Hand		_ .. . I		17.00
				
| Stockhandler	12.33	12.88	13.29	13.67 I
| Stockhandler I LeadHand				14.18
| Co-Ordinator		(		15.48
		!		
Caretaker	11.86	12.39;	12.80	13.18
Head Caretaker	12.37	12.92	13.34	13.76
Maintenance Assistant	12.07	12.5&	12.99	13.39 I
Tech. Grade 3	12.97	13.56f	13.97	14.41
Tech. Grade 2	13.82	14.43	14.89	15.35
Tech. Grade 1	15.67	16.36j	16.88	17.40
Electric Specialist	15.67	16.36	16.88	17.40
Maint. LeadHand				18.00
Maint. Co-Ordinator			f			19.81
				
72
	HIRING	j 3 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	"T-| MONTHS
Toolmaker Assistant	12.94	13.51	13.94	14 38
Toolmaker Grade 4	14.27	14.91	15.38	15.88
Toolmaker Grade 3	15.32	16.01	16.53	17.04
Toolmaker Grade 2	16.30	17.02	17.56	18.11
Toolmaker Grade 1	17.17	17.93	18.51	19,07
Toolmaker Leadhand				19.68
Toolmaker CoOrdinator				20.89
				
Racker	11.73	12.25	12.63	13.04
Tech. Grade 3	12.51	13.07	13.48	13.89
Tech. Grade 2	12.95	13.53	13.95	14.39
Tech. Grade 1	13.88	14.49	14.96	15.42
Lab Technician	13.88	14.49	14.96	15.42
Plating CoOrdinator				17.01
				
Q.A. Operator	11.93 j	12.45	12.86	13.25
Inspector Assistant	12.18 j	12.72	13.13	13.55
Inspector Grade 2	13.40 |	13.98	14.43	14.89
Inspector Grade 1	13.83	14.44	14.91	15.37
73
	HIRING	month[>	6 MONTHS	9 MONTHS
Lead Hand		.■ I'-'		15.97
NOTE 1: Length of service for Technicians and Toolmakers is dated from appointment to their classification and not length of service with Company. Personb in these categories must spend minimum of time in eadlh grade according to the requirements before being tested for reclassification.
Employeestransferred in a techrtical position will receive the top rate of the classification upon successfully completing their exams.
NOTE t Technicians, Toolmakers or othfer persons, will, while on a shift not covered by a department supervisor or lead hand, receive fifty ($0.50) cents per hour above their schedule rates, if assigned supervisor responsibility on that shift.
NOTE 3: A stock handlerdriving a single axle truck beyond a radius of twenty-five (25) kilometres fforfi Midland will receive 5% premium above their schedule rate for those hours.
NOTE 4: Employee's writing exams shallbe paid straight time hourly rate for the time prescribed for the test which will be after or before regular hours.
NOTE 5: Spray painters, while wearing prfessurized painting suits, will receive fifty ($0.50) cents per hour premium above the schedule rates for that shift.
74
APPEKldlX “D”
letterIof intent
In the event of termination resulting from a plant closure or relocation or a permanentciosure of a department, an employee who has completed more than three (3) years of service and who is terminated, will receive a separation allowance based on his/her regular hourly rateps follows:
One (1) week of pay per year of service up to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks Payment will be made within thirty (30) days unless otherwise agreed.
The Employment Standards Act, as updated from time to time, shall be used to determinefhe conditions and restrictions, except as referred to in this letter
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: 12 HOURsj-tiFT(Article 21.01F)
The parties agree that the auility to schedule a 12 hour shift is importantfor scheduling flexibility and may be needed from time to time.
Prior to scheduling a 12 hbur shift the parties agree to examine alternatives and select the best schedule to meet our needs.
75
APPENDIX "E1
INJECTION DEPARTMENT- WEEK-END SHIFTS
The technicians, on a voluntary basisj work weekends under the following conditions:
1.	"A Shift"
11 p.m. Thursday	7 a.m. Friday	8 hours
11 p.m. Friday	11 a.m. Saturday	12 hours
11p.m. Saturday	11 a.m. Sunday	12 hours
"B Shift"		
3 p.m. Friday	11 p.m. Friday	8 hours
11 a.m. Saturday	11 p.m. Saturday	12 hours
11 a.m. Sunday	11 p.m. Sunday	12 hours
2.	Technicians are paidfor forty (40) hourswork each week with a 6% night shift premium for "A"1 shift and at a 2% premium for "B" shift (no Saturday or Sunday rates applicable). C.O.L.A. is paid for forty (40) hoprs. Supervision rates paid for twenty-four (24) hours per w^ek.
3.	Holidaysfor Technicians are to be given by eliminating the eight (8) hour Friday shift for that week.
4.	There are no mould changes or jsetups required. The shifts run machines already setup with a view to obtaining the maximum number of parts. The Technician's responsibilities include considerable part quality checks to ensure that only good parts are produced.
5.	The durationof this shift for technicians is no more than eight (8) consecutive weeks at one time.
Conditions of work for operators:
1.	When two (2) twelve (lii) nour shifts are worked they shall be as follows:
"AShift"
11 p.m. Friday 11 p.m. Saturday
11 a.m. Saturday	12 hours
11a.m. Sunday	12 hours
"B Shift"
11 a.m. Saturday 11 a.m. Sunday
11 p.m. Saturday	12 hours
11 p.m. Sunday	12 hours
2.	The work week for mployees who have seniority on a regular forty (40) ho shift, employed on these week-end shifts, will be thirty-tw (32) hours consisting of two (2) twelve (12) hour weekend sf s and one (1) eight (8) hour shift. The eight (8) hour shift v I be one (1) of the regular forty (40) hour shifts as determ ed by management on a call-in basis. During this shift the ei ployee will work as an operator or any other reasonable req red work.
3.	The work week for employees who do not have seniority on a regularforty (40) h ur shift, employed on these weekend shifts will be twenty- bui (24) hours consisting of two (2) twelve (12) hour w< ekend shifts, or sixteen (16) hours, consisting of two (2) ight (8) hour shifts.
4.	The operators are pa i at their regular rates with a 6% night shift premium for "A" shift and at a 2% premium for "B" shift (no Saturday or Sund ly rates will be applicable), and regular shift rates for the shit worked during the week.
77
5.	An employee who is switching from any other shift to the weekend shift shall have at least twelve (12) hours off between the end of work on the other shift to the start of work on the weekend shift and the Company may assign employees to start at either 111 p.m. or	If the
employee has not had at least twelve (12) hours off, he shall be paid at the overtime rate until twelve (12) hours have elapsed except where the employee so requests.
General
1.	On each twelve (12) hour shift th^re will be:
•	one (1) fifteen (15) minute rest pieriod (paid)
•	two (2) thirty (30) minute lunch periods (paid)
2.	For purposes of building up senibrity, each eight (8) hours worked will count as one (1) dayl provided at least twenty-four (24) hours are worked on the weekend.
3.	Company recognized holidays, ifdllgible under the provisions of the contract, will be paid at eight (8) hours.
4.	Each shift will normally consist of;one (1) technician, Grade 1 or2, plus three (3) operators running four (4) machines.
78
REQUESTS F OR VACATIONS
Requests for the 3rd, 4th, ’th week of vacation will be handled through the employee's Su1 [ervisor as follows, if mutual consent between parties cannot be eached:
1.	The Company may det' Vmine the number of employees who may be away from any blassification/department at any one time.
2.	Prior to April 1st, senioi ty will determine the vacation priority.
3.	After March 31st, vaq tior priority will be determined on a first come basis.
In all cases acknowledgment or vacation requests will be given within five (5) working dayi
AGREEMENT ON POLICY
Policy for pay cheques:
(a)	Shortage in wagi is will be corrected by issuing another cheque or if he amount is small, immediately advancing the es timated "NET PAY” out of Petty Cash funds. Any adv »nce will be deducted from the next week's cheque, r t which time the shortage will also be corrected.
(b)	Regular pay ch« ques for 3-11 and 11-7 shifts will be distributed on th s Wednesday shift, the remainder of the employees \ rill receive their pay cheque on their Thursday shift, f Monday is a holiday all employees will be paid durin j their shift commencing on Thursday
AGREEMENT ON PqLICY
Re: Benefit Administration
79
There will be a Joint Benefits Committee. Management Representatives shall meet with thei Union Representatives as required to discuss issues arising aut of administration of the benefit plans.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT Re: Spray Pa|nti|fig
For the term of this Agreement, to tie entitled to bump into the Spray Painting department, an employee must have previously demonstrated his ability to satisfactorily perform in that department.
The Company shall notify employees that they have an opportunity to demonstrate their ability provided that they have signed up prior to four (4) months before a layoff notice. New employees shall have such opportunity after six (6) months of employment.
The employee shall be paid at straight time rates for time spent in such demonstration provided thatlif such time is outside of his regular working hours it shall not beseemed to be hours worked for the purpose of overtime calculation.
The operation of this letter shall be reviewed every six (6) months.
LETTER OF U IDERSTANDING RE: AR' CLE 12.07
The Union acknowledges that the Company may require a medical examination by a < om.pa.ny approved Doctor or Doctor of Chiropractic on hiring or ansfers between departments.
LETTER OF U IDERSTANDING RE: PAYFORUNIC ^REPRESENTATIVES
The appropriate Union Re| resentatives will be paid for regular scheduled working hours It it on the following business:
1.	For negotiating meetings with management to a maximum of eigh (8) hours per.day.
2.	For grievance or' Iscipline meetings as in Article 6.06, and for all other r eetings called by management.
If such a meeting takes f ace outside an employee's normal working hours he shall be f aid at straight time rates but that time shall not be counted as ho rs worked.
LETTER C : INTENTION RE: HEAL H& SAFETY
The partiesagreethatonel ) Union and one (1 )Company Health and Safety representativ* shall do a safety inspection of all departments each month.
81
EARLY RETIREE HEALTHCARE COVERAGE
An employee who retires early after at least fifteen (15) years service and age 60 shall be entitled tcj participate in the Company Healthcare Plan at their expense to ^ge 65.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
The parties hereby agree to jointly explore models of pay for skills. The purpose is to assess possible ways of more appropriately encouraging and rewarding individual initiative and effort.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
The parties hereby agree to jointly work on a system for annual employee reviews. The purpose is to ensure that individuals are property classified, feedback is given 2nd individualfuture training and development is considered.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT Re: O.H.I.P.
If during the life of this Collective Agreement, the Ontario Government repeals the Employer Health Tax and enacts legislation permitting employers and employees to share the cost of health insurance premiums, it is agreed that the Company will pay the full cost of such premiums necessary to maintain the basic level of health insurance provided by the Employer Health Tax.
82
LETTER Of AGREEMENT Re: Military Service
If an employee is conscript 51 to active Canadian Military service the employee will retain ei istin<_ seniority for a period up to, but
not exceeding the seniority Upon release from military an employee who retains s
before entering active military service, service the Company will provide, to sniority, an employment opportunity if:
1. A job similar to the ol.e vacated on conscription presently filled by a lesser senk)rib employee exists.
2. The employee is able] and willing to perform the job.