COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
Foamex
Canada Inc.
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 664
Expiry date: March 25, 2003
Table of Contents
ARTICLE
1	. Purpose......................
2	* Recognition..................
3	- Discrimination...............
4	. Management Rights............
5	. Union Security...............
6	. No Strike or Lock-out........
7	. Representation...............
8	. Grievance Procedure..........
9	. Arbitration..................
10	- Seniority...................
11	■ Leave of Absence............
12	■ Bulletin Board..............
13	- Wages.........................
14	- Hours Worked and Overtime...
15	- Plant Holidays..............
16	. Vacations...................
17	. Shift Premium...............
18	. Welfare.....................
19	- Pension Plan................
20	- Health and Safety...........
21	- Duration....................
Schedule “A” (Wage Rates).........
Appendix “A” (Letters)............
Appendix "B" (Safety and Health)..
Appendix "C" (Two Day WorkWeek)
Page
1
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
9
10 21 22 23
. 23 28 30
32
33 37
39
40 . 41
51 .. .54 ..62
BETWEEN
Foamex Canada Inc. Metropolitan Toronto (hereinafter referred to as “the Company”).
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 664 (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”).
Article 1 PURPOSE
1.01	It is the mutual desire of both parties to promote cooperation and harmony, and to provide an amicable method of settling any differences or grievances that may arise.
Article 2
RECOGNITION
2.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all its employees at its plants within Metropolitan Toronto or a seventy-five (75) mile radius of Toronto City Hall, which ever is greater; save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors and office and sales staff.
(b) In this agreement wherever the pronoun “HE” or “HIS” is used, it shall be construed to mean any
1
employee, male or female.
Article 3
DISCRIMINATION
3.01	There shall be no discrimination or intimidation of any sort practised by the Company by reason of any activity, past or future, of any employee with or in respect to membership or activity in the Union.
3.02	The Company shall not by any means, directly or indirectly persuade or influence, or attempt to persuade or influence, any employee against membership or activity in the Union.
3.03	Neither the Company nor the Union shall discriminate against any employee on account of race, ancestry, place of origin, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, creed, sex, sexual orientation, age, marital status, family status or handicap as defined in the Ontario Human Rights Code.
3.04	There shall be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised upon any employee by the Union, or by any of its members or representatives and there shall be no union activity, solicitation for membership or collection of dues on company time and no meetings on company premises except with the permission of the Company.
2
Article 4
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	hire, retire, discharge, suspend, discipline, transfer, classify, promote or demote employees; increase or decrease the working force, assign employees to shifts; provided however that any action taken by the Company with respect to discharge, suspension or discipline shall be for reasonable and just cause;
(c)	generally manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of it plants, the products to be manufactured, the services to be supplied, the methods of operation and production, the schedules of production, the kinds and locations of tools and machines to be used, the process of manufacturing and assembling, the delivering and servicing of its products, the determination of work standards, the determination of quality standards, and the control of material and parts to be used in its products;
(d)	establish and promulgate reasonable plant rules and regulations, and such rules will be discussed with the
3
union committee prior to their implementation.
4.02	The exercise by the Company of the functions set forth in Section 4,01 shall be subject to other applicable provisions of this Agreement and shall not be inconsistent with them.
Article 5
UNIONSECURITY
5.01	All present employees and all employees hired hereafter will be required to become members of the Union, and to maintain their membership for the duration of this agreement, and any renewal or extension thereof. All present and future employees in the bargaining unit shall be required to sign dues deduction authorization forms which shall be irrevocable for the duration of this agreement and any renewal or extension thereof.
5.02	The Company will deduct weekly dues and assessments as fixed by the International union starting the date of hire. The Union will notify the Company in writing of any changes in the amount of the dues and assessments.
5.03	The Company will promptly remit the amounts so deducted, prior to the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following, by cheque, as directed by the Toronto Area Office, payable to the International Treasurer accompanied by the following information:
4
(a)	from whose pay deductions have been made and the amount;
(b)	from whose pay no deductions have been made and the reason why no deductions have been made;
(c)	those who have left the employ of the Company;
(d)	the properly filled out check-off certification form supplied by the Union will be sent with the first dues payments of new members;
(e)	a properly filled out dues deduction form as supplied by the Union to be sent with the first dues payments of new members;
(f)	a properly filled out application for membership card as supplied by the Union to be sent with the first dues payments of new members.
5.04	The Union will save the Company harmless in respect of all deductions and remittances made pursuant to this article.
5.05	Union dues deductions will be included on employees’ T4 slips.
Article 6
NO STRIKE OR LOCK-OUT
6.01	The Union and its members, individually and
collectively, undertake that neither will cause, authorize or take part in any strike, work stoppage, sit down, slow-down or any other collective activity which will restrict, limit or interfere with the operations of the
5
Company or the manufacturing of its products during the term of this agreement. The Company agrees that there will be no lock-out of its employees during the term of this agreement.
6.02	The word “strike” and the word “lock-out” shall be
deemed to have the meaning given these words in the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
Article 7
REPRESENTATION
7.01	The Company will recognize a negotiating committee consisting of four (4) employees, one of whom will be chairman. The Company will also recognize a maximum of twelve (12) stewards to represent employees in designated zones, The Union will notify the Company in writing of the names of the negotiating committee and any stewards and of any changes thereto as they occur.
7.02	It is recognized that a steward (or until such time as stewards are appointed, a committeeman) may be from time to time required to investigate or process a grievance but he shall, under no circumstances, leave his regular duties for this purpose without first obtaining the permission of his supervisor and giving such reasonable explanation as is required of him. He shall report back to his supervisor before resuming his regular duties, The steward or committeeman as the
6
case may be, shall suffer no loss of pay in respect of such absence, provided he has complied with any condition laid down relevant thereto by his supervisor, and provided that the duration of his absence is not unreasonably long in the circumstances obtaining.
7.03	(a) An employee who is being disciplined must request the presence of a Union Steward at the time of a disciplinary meeting.
(b)	When a Union Steward is not available for a disciplinary meeting, the Union President, or other designated officer must be required to attend.
7.04	The Union President shall not be required to work on any shift other than the day shift except with his consent.
Article 8
GRIEVANCEPROCEDURE
8.01	An employee with a complaint must, accompanied by a steward, first discuss it with his supervisor and give the latter an opportunity to settle it. If the supervisor’s disposition of the complaint is not satisfactory to the employee, the following procedure will be followed:
8.02	Step No 1
If the supervisor’s disposition of the complaint is not
7
satisfactory to the employee, the aggrieved employee accompanied by a steward must proceed with the grievance to the department head for discussion and possible resolution. Failing satisfactory resolution by the department head, the complaint will be committed to writing as a grievance and signed in triplicate by the employee and steward. The original shall be presented in such written form to the department head with a copy to Personnel and a copy to be retained by the Union, within ten (10) working days of the cause of the grievance. The department head shall give his reply in writing within two (2) working days after the grievance has been received by him.
Step No 2
Failing settlement the grievance will be submitted within two (2) working days after receipt of the supervisor’s written reply to the Plant Manager, or a person nominated by the Company management, who will convene a meeting of the Union and Company representative within three (3) working days, from the date of the submission of the grievance (or at other mutually agreed upon time) to discuss the grievance.
An International Representative of the Union may be present at this stage. The Plant Manager, or a person nominated by the Company management will render the Company’s decision in writing with reasons being given within five (5) working days from the date of the meeting.
8
8.03	A claim by an employee with seniority that he has been discharged or suspended without reasonable cause shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement to that effect is lodged with the Company within three (3) working days after the employee ceases to work. The preliminary steps of the grievance procedure will be eliminated in such cases and the procession of the grievance will commence with Step No 2. A discharged employee will be allowed a brief interview with a steward before he is required to leave the Company’s premises.
8.04	The Company agrees to advise the President or in his absence the Vice-president when employees are disciplined, discharged, suspended, transferred, recalled, laid off, reclassified or promoted to another job. Such information will be given to the President, or in his absence the vice-president, in writing at the time the employee is informed or immediately afterwards.
Article 9
ARBITRATION
9.01	Failing settlement of a grievance under the procedure
set forth in Article 8, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration provided written notification to that effect is given within twenty-five (25) working days after receipt of the decision of the Plant manager, or person nominated by the Company Management. A Board of
9
arbitration shall be established as provided under Section 48 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act (1995). The parties recognize the arbitration provision under Section 49 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act (1995) and that either party may pursue the requirements of that legislation and comply with its provisions as set out therein.
9.02	The arbitration board shall have no power to alter or amend any of the provisions of this agreement, or to substitute any new provisions for existing provisions, or to give any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement.
9.03	An arbitration board established to deal with a discharge grievance, may resolve the issue by confirming the Company’s action, or by reinstating the employee with full or partial compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which it deems to be just and equitable in the circumstances.
9.04	No person may be nominated to a board of arbitration who has, directly or indirectly, attempted to negotiate or settle the grievance in dispute.
9.05	The fee and expenses of the chairman of the arbitration board shall be shared equally by the parties.
Article 10 SENIORITY
10
10.01	(a) An employee will be considered probationary and
will not acquire seniority until he has worked for the Company for a total of sixty (60) scheduled days and must work the complete daily schedule which must be aggregated within a six (6) month period. The employee’s seniority date will be the date of hire.
(b)	A Company paid medical will be taken before Company seniority is attained.
(c)	Employees, who are hired as students and identified as students shall not acquire seniority. At the discretion of management, such employees may become full-time employees if openings occur and will gain seniority from the last continuous starting date. He shall be credited with such seniority after completing a sixty (60) working day probationary period as explained in this article.
(d)	A full time employee’s pay rate in Group 1 (Conversion and Foamline) shall move from “entry level” to the maximum job rate of the Job Class that he is assigned to after he has worked for the Company for a total of sixty (60) scheduled work days.
A full time employee’s pay rate in Group 2 (Skilled Maintenance) shall move from “entry level” to the maximum job rate of the Skilled Trade Position that he is assigned to after he has worked for the Company for a total of six (6) months. The pay rate for an
11
apprentice is outlined in Schedule “A” of this Collective Agreement.
A student employee’s pay rate shall remain at the “entry level” for the duration that he is identified as a student.
10.02	Seniority will be based on service with the Company and will apply on a plant-wide basis except in relation to lay offs and recalls when it will apply on a group basis.
10.03	For the purpose of applying seniority, there will be two (2) groups:
GROUP 1 - CONVERSION and FOAMLINE which will be divided into thirteen (13) classes as follows:
CLASS 1	CLASS 7
CLASS 2	CLASS 8
CLASS 3	CLASS F3
CLASS 4	CLASS F4
CLASS 5	CLASS F5
CLASS 6	
GROUP 2 - SKILLED MAINTENANCE
10.04	In the event that an employee is permanently
transferred from Group 1 to Group 2 or vice versa, his seniority as far as its group application is concerned,
12
will cease to apply within his former group and will apply immediately in the group to which he has been transferred.
10.05 Lav offs
(a)	Lay offs and recalls shall be by group. Lay offs shall be made in reverse order of seniority within the group and class affected. The following procedures will be followed:
(1)	probationary employees will be laid off first.
(2)	employees with the least plant seniority in the classification affected will be laid off.
(3)	if such employee has more plant seniority than employees in other classifications and if qualified to perform the majority of the duties of the position, he may displace those employees. Such employee may displace a junior employee in a higher class if he has previously held such job, or he accumulated the required job skills and qualifications for the majority of the duties of the junior employee’s position while performing another position(s), or he has ten (10) years or more seniority with the Company, otherwise he may only displace those in the same class or lower classes.
To determine whether such employee is qualified to perform the majority of the duties, the employee will
be allowed a five (5) working day orientation period to demonstrate that they are qualified and able to perform
13
the job within acceptable standards as determined by the Company.
(4)	if an employee exercises seniority rights in the above manner and is capable of performing the job, such employee will not be laid off.
An employee who wishes to exercise his rights in the above manner must inform the Company of his intent to “bump” and the position that he intends to “bump” into within three (3) working days of receiving his lay off notice.
(5)	for a lay off of not more than thirteen (13) weeks, no displacement of employees between the Evans Avenue (Main Plant) and the Flame Lamination department locations shall be permitted, except for employees who have more than three (3) years service, as well as the necessary qualifications as outlined in
10.05	(a) (3). Should employees laid off not be recalled within thirteen (13) weeks, they shall then exercise their seniority and displace the junior employees as per Article 10.05 (a) (2).
(6)	A lay off list will be posted on the bulletin board as well as a seniority list to allow employees to exercise their bumping rights within the terms of Article of 10.05.
14
Recalls
(b)	When the Company is recalling employees and no answer is received, a Union officer or designated employee will be notified to be present when the next call is made. Laid off employees shall be recalled before new employees are hired provided they have the necessary skill and ability to perform the work available.
(c)	Subject to the provisions of this agreement at such time or times as the Company recalls the working force so laid off, the same procedure as described above shall be followed with respect to a lay off except that the employees shall be recalled in reverse order of lay off, subject to the capability of the employee to do the particular job, and the employees shall return to their classification of work within the group in accordance with their seniority. During periods of lay off before the Company hires new employees, they will first offer any vacancy to seniority employees who are laid off and have the ability to perform the work. If all employees on lay off refuse such vacancy, the Company may hire new employees. Employees on lay off shall have the right to refuse recall on jobs other than in the classification within the department in which their seniority applies. In the case of recall, laid off or displaced employees may be assigned available work immediately but must be returned to their previous job at the first shift change.
15
(d)	The Union will be notified of persons to be laid off or to be recalled.
(e)	The Company shall notify an employee no later than the midpoint of the shift three (3) working days prior to the day no work is available, except the midnight shift employees, who would be advised at the start of the shift prior to the day before the day no work is available.
Postings
10.06	(a) Promotional opportunities of a permanent nature
(that is of anticipated duration of more than thirty (30) calendar days) will be posted for three (3) working days on the plant’s bulletin boards. A copy of the job posting will be given to the Union within one (1) working day from the date of posting. Absences due to vacation or a leave of absence for less than three (3) months shall not create vacancies for the purpose of administering this section.
(b)	Application, which shall be in writing, must be made within three (3) working days. Applications will be considered primarily on the basis of skill, ability and qualifications, and as among two or more applicants who are relatively equal in that respect, seniority will govern.
(c)	The successful applicant will be personally notified
16
prior to plant wide posting within three (3) working days after the expiry date of the job posting. Such employee will be placed on the job no later than five (5) working days from the date of such posting and/or paid the rate of the job, unless the job is not available due to circumstances outside management’s control and explained to the union. In addition, the Union President will be notified of the successful and all unsuccessful applicants.
(d)	The successful applicant will be given a probationary period of:
(1)	thirty (30) working days if the job is with Group 1. This probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties in cases where an additional short period of time would be advantageous to the employee and the Company.
(2)	six (6) months if the job is within Group 2.
(e)	A successful applicant may not apply for any further promotional opportunity for a period of six (6) months.
(f)	In the event that an employee, transferred as the result of the provisions of this section, becomes in the opinion of the Company, unsuccessful in his new position during the probationary period, he shall be returned to his former position and have bidding rights restored.
17
If an employee wishes to return to his former position during the probationary period, he will be allowed to do so with proper notification to the supervisor. The said employee may not apply for any further promotional opportunity for a period of three (3) months from the start date of his successful application.
If an employee wishes to return to his former position after completing his probationary period, he will not be allowed to do so unless proper medical documentation dictates he leave the job. The said employee will have bidding rights restored.
] 0.07 A person in the employ of the Company outside the
bargaining unit who has previously been in the employ of the bargaining unit, shall if he is transferred back to a position within the bargaining unit, be credited with the seniority he had at the time of his transfer outside the bargaining unit plus the amount of time he spent outside of the bargaining unit to a maximum of two (2) years.
After March 25,1997, an employee who accepts a position with the Company, outside of the bargaining unit will retain all their accumulated seniority for a maximum period of one (1) year. If such an employee does not return to the bargaining unit within one (1) year, they shall loose all their seniority and can only return to the bargaining unit as a new employee.
18
10.08	A seniority list will be compiled by the Company and posted on the bulletin boards. Revised lists will be posted every six months. The Union will be supplied with two (2) copies of the seniority lists every four (4) months.
10.09	An employee shall lose his seniority for the following reasons:
(a)	voluntarily quits
(b)	a discharge not reversed through the grievance procedure.
(c)	if, after being notified by the Company to return to work, he fails to notify the Company within two (2) working days, after such notification is given, that he intends to return to work. Such notification will be done by phone call witnessed by an official designated by the Union. The phone call will be followed up with a registered letter. In the case of the phone call not being completed the registered letter will serve as notification.
(d)	if he fails to return to work within five (5) working days after the Company has notified him to do so, unless he furnishes reasons for his failure which are satisfactory to the Company.
(e)	if he absence himself without leave or overstays an authorized leave of absence unless he provides a reason
19
for such absence which is satisfactory to the Company.
(f)	if he has not been actively employed by the Company by reason of lay off for a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive months.
10.10	An employee absent due to illness or non-compensable injury will retain his seniority for a period equal to his seniority at the start of the absence or for one (1) year, whichever is greater, and at the completion of his absence due to non-compensable illness or injury, shall return to the job class which he held, provided he is capable of performing the work required to be done.
An employee absent due to a compensable injury will be re-employed in accordance to the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act, and will retain his seniority until such time as he is re-employed.
10.11	Subject to the provisions of Section 10.09 (f) and Section 10.10, seniority will continue to accumulate during lay off and during absence due to illness, injury and authorized leave of absence.
10.12	While an employee is absent for any reason (except for legitimate compensable injury, approved leave of absence, Union business, or bereavement leave) his disciplinary status will be “put-on-hold“ until his return to work, at which time it will resume where it was left off.
20
Article 1 1
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.01	The Company may grant an employee leave of absence without pay for legitimate personal reasons. Such leave if granted will be confirmed to the employee concerned in writing.
11.02	The Company may also grant leave of absence for attendance at Union conventions or conferences. Such leave shall not be unreasonably refused but shall in no circumstances extend to more than five (5) employees at any one time and shall not exceed eighty (80) man days in aggregate in any one year. Such leave if granted shall be confirmed to the employee concerned in writing.
11.03	The Company will grant an employee up to three (3) days bereavement leave from his scheduled work days with pay in the event of the death of the employee’s spouse, father, mother, child and also child or children who live in a parent child relationship, brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law and daughter-in-law. The granting of such leave will be conditional on the employee attending the funeral or being responsible for the funeral arrangements. If an employee does not attend the funeral, the Company will award one (1) day bereavement leave pay which shall be taken within five (5) working days.
21
11.04	The Company will pay an employee the difference between a regular day’s pay and any court witness or jury pay received for any day on which he is unable to perform his regular work because of jury service or acting as a witness in court. Any vouchers relating to his jury duty or jury pay will be produced by the employee at the request of the Company.
11.05	The Company will grant a leave of absence for maternity and/or parental leave in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
11.06	An employee who is injured during working hours as a result of occupational injury and who is unable to continue to work as a result of such injury shall be paid for the balance of the regular shift at his straight time hourly rate for such unworked hours, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours.
Article 12
BULLETIN BOARD
12.01	The Company will provide bulletin boards at
appropriate locations in the plants for the use of the Union. Matters posted shall be restricted for:
(a)	notices of Union meetings
(b)	notices of Union elections or appointments
(c)	notices of results of Union election
(d)	notices of Union recreational and social activities
22
12.02	There shall be no other general distribution or posting by the Union or the employees of pamphlets, advertising or political matter, propaganda notices, or literature of any kind on the Company’s property other than as hereinbefore provided.
Article 13
WAGES
13.01	Effective March 26, 2000, there will be a 3.0% increase on the rates of pay as per Schedule “A” annexed.
13.02	Effective March 26, 2001, there will be a 3.0% increase on the rates of pay as per Schedule “A” annexed.
13.03	Effective March 26, 2002, there will be a 2.75% increase on the rates of pay as per Schedule “A” annexed.
Article 14
HOURS WORKED AND OVERTIME
14.01	Nothing in this article is to be construed as a guarantee of any specific number of hours of work per day or per week.
14.02	(a) For employees working on the three-shift operation the regular hours of work will be forty (40) hours per
23
week, eight (8) hours per day, to include a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period, Monday to Friday, inclusive.
The Midnight shift will start on Sunday night.
For employees on the one or two shift operation, the regular hours of work will be forty (40) hours per week, eight (8) hours per day with a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period, Monday to Friday inclusive.
(b)	The day shift will not start prior to 7:00 a.m. and not later than 8:00 a.m. For shippers and truck drivers only, the starting time shall be between 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. Shift start times outside of this time period may only be changed by mutual consent of the parties.
(c)	It is agreed that if a continuous seven (7) day operation of the Slitter is necessary due to customer requirements, a “two (2) day work week” will be implemented. The terms of the “two (2) day work week” is specified in Appendix "C" of this Agreement.
14.03	There will be two (2) paid ten (10) minute rest periods per day, one in each half shift.
14.04	All work performed in excess of eight (8) hours within any period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours will be paid at the rate of time and one-half.
All work performed in excess of twelve (12) hours
24
within any period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours will be paid at the rate of double time.
14.05	All work performed on Saturday will be paid at the rate of time and one-half. All work performed on Sunday will be paid at the rate of double time.
14.06
(a)	Overtime will be distributed as equitably as possible among those normally performing the work unless the employee is on the shift only for the reason of accommodation. If this is the reason, such an employee shall receive their share of equitably distributed overtime for the job.
(1)	The employee assigned to the job and shift scheduled will be asked to work.
(2)	If such employee is unable to work the overtime, the off-shift employees assigned to the same job will be asked in seniority order.
(3)	If such employee(s) are unable to work the overtime, an employee qualified to perform the job will be asked to work, if such employee has signed a “Monthly Overtime Intent List” which shall be posted by management and explained below.
Employees will be able to add or delete their name from the intent list at any time during the month.
25
(4)	The “Intent List” will be posted by Management. This list is posted for employees to indicate by signature their availability to work overtime outside their own classification. These employees will be chosen for overtime assignments, if qualified, by seniority for open (unfilled) jobs. Management will distribute these overtime opportunities as equitably as possible. This list will be posted on the first Monday of each month. The overtime requirements will be posted by Wednesday at 3:00 p.m.
(5)	An employee whose job is scheduled cannot refuse such job and still be eligible for other jobs.
(b)	Notice of scheduled weekend work for the Maintenance department will be posted in conjunction with the Notice for Production weekend requirements.
(c)	Notice of twenty-hour (24) hours will be given for scheduled out of town runs for truck drivers excepting in the course of business an emergency arises.
(d)	Management will develop lists of interested employees by seniority for those jobs that qualification are met at minimum levels. Those jobs will be agreed upon between management and the Union.
14.07	Overtime rates shall not be paid in respect of any time worked by the employees substituting for one another
26
at their own request, or in respect of any change in an employee’s regular working hours made at his own request.
14.08	If an employee has completed his regular day’s work and has left the Company’s plants and premises and is thereafter recalled to perform emergency work he will be guaranteed a minimum of two hours pay at the rate of time and one-half plus $20 (travel allowance), except on Sundays when he will be guaranteed a minimum of two hours pay at the rate of double time plus $20 (travel allowance).
An employee called in to perform regular overtime, or to replace an employee who was scheduled to perform regular overtime and did not show up, will not be entitled to the $20 travel allowance.
14.09	An employee who has worked overtime shall not be required to take time off to offset such overtime.
14.10	An employee required to work overtime will be guaranteed one (1) hours pay.
14.11	If the overtime work immediately following a regular shift equals or exceeds two (2) hours the employee will be entitled to one ten (10) minute paid break period.
14.12	If the overtime work immediately following a regular shift equals or exceeds three (3) hours the employee
27
14.13
14.14
15.01
will be entitled to paid break periods totalling twenty (20) minutes, which will be taken immediately following the completion of his regular shift.
An employee required to work overtime on a Saturday, Sunday or plant holiday will receive break periods in accordance with Section 14.03.
An employee reporting for work at his regular time, without having been notified by the Company not to report, shall be given at least four (4) hours work or, if no work is available for him, four (4) hours pay at his regular rate. This provision, however, shall not apply if the lack of work is due to an act of God, fire, flood, explosion, or some such other reason beyond the Company’s control.
Article 15
PLANT HOLIDAYS
An employee will be entitled, without rendering service, to receive a regular day’s pay in respect of each of the following holidays:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday New Year’s Eve
28
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Eve Christmas Day Boxing Day
In the event that any of the above days fall on a Saturday or Sunday the holiday for the purposes of this agreement, will be deemed to be either the preceding Friday or the following Monday. The Company will recognize an additional statutory holiday with pay if, and after, the Canadian Federal Government grants same.
15.02	An employee who is required to work on a holiday for which he is entitled to holiday pay under Section 15.0 1 will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the time worked over and above his holiday pay.
15.03	In order to qualify for holiday pay for any of the full days listed in Section 15.01 an employee must have worked not less than seven-eighths (7/8ths) of a full shift on the last working day preceding and not less than seven-eighths (7/8th) of a full shift on the next working day following the holiday. The qualifying conditions stipulated in this section will not apply if the absence on any of the days is an authorized leave of absence or is a result of illness or injury evidenced by an acceptable doctor’s certificate, other justifiable reasons acceptable to management or a lay off that commenced not earlier than the third working day preceding the holiday. The “Third Working Day” qualification referred to in the previous sentence will be extended to ten (10) working days in case of Christmas Eve, providing that the employee has completed his
29
probationary period at the commencement of his absence and provided further that the employee returns to work following his absence.
Article 16 VACATIONS
16.01	A vacation year shall run from July 1 st to June 30th. A vacation due in any year cannot be carried over to the following year. Every employee with more than one
(1) year of continuous service must take a minimum of two (2) weeks vacation within the vacation year.
16.02	An employee with less than one (1) year’s service as at June 30th in any year will receive a vacation based on the formula of two (2) weeks’ vacation for one (1) year of continuous service but prorated to his actual continuous service as at June 30th and calculated to the nearest half day with vacation pay equal to four percent (4%) of his gross earnings to that date.
16.03	An employee with one (1) year but less than five (5) years of continuous service as at June 30th in any year will be entitled to a vacation of two (2) weeks with pay equal to four percent (4%) of his gross annual earnings to that date.
16.04	An employee with five (5) years or more of continuous service as at June 30th in any year will be entitled to a vacation of three (3) weeks with pay equal to six
30
percent (6%) of his gross annual earnings for the year to that date.
16.05	An employee with ten (10) years or more of continuous service as at June 30th in any year will be entitled to a vacation of four (4) week’s with pay equal to eight percent (8%) of his gross annual earnings for the year to that date.
16.06	An employee with twenty (20) years or more of continuous service as at June 30th in any year will be entitled to a vacation of five (5) weeks with pay equal to ten percent (10%) of his gross earnings for the year to that date.
16.07	(a) An employee who reaches his fifth, tenth, or 20th year of continuous service subsequent to June 30th in any year shall be entitled to an additional week with pay equal to 2% of his gross annual earnings for the year ending June 30th.
(b)	An employee with thirty-five (35) years or more of continuous service as at June 30th in any year will be entitled to a vacation of six (6) weeks with pay equal to 12 percent (12%) of his gross earnings for the year to that date.
16.08	For the purpose of calculating the annual vacation entitlement the prior year vacation pay will be added to the regular earnings.
31
16.09	An employee whose employment with the Company is severed shall receive in lieu of vacation pay, an amount equal to four percent (4%) or six percent (6%) or eight percent (8%), 10 percent (10%) or 12 percent (12%) (depending on his length of service as at the preceding June 30th) of his gross annual earnings during the period for which he had not previously received vacation pay.
16.10	An employee will receive his vacation pay prior to proceeding on vacation.
16.11	If an employee is absent due to sickness or injury for a continuous period of not less than four (4) weeks in any vacation year, his total time off due to sickness or injury will be counted as time worked for the purpose of calculating vacation pay. To be eligible for vacation pay, an employee must return to work for thirty (30) days in the current vacation year.
16.12	In the event of a shutdown of the plants for vacation purposes, all employees, unless otherwise notified must take their vacation during this period. Notice of shutdown will be given not later than May 3 1 st of the vacation year and after June 30th vacations will not be adjusted.
Article 17
SHIFT PREMIUM
32
17.01	Effective March 26, 2000, an employee who is scheduled to work on the afternoon shift will be paid an afternoon shift premium of fifty-three (53) cents per hour. An employee who is scheduled to work on the night shift will be paid a night shift premium of sixty (60) cents per hour.
Effective March 26, 2001, an employee who is scheduled to work on the night shift will be paid a night shift premium of sixty-three (63) cents per hour.
Shift premium for overtime hours shall not be paid to employees on scheduled day shift unless they work three (3) or more hours of overtime.
17.02	The off-shift premium referred to in 17.01 will not be used in the computation of overtime rates.
Article 18 WELFARE
18.01	The benefits referred to in this Article are detailed in and are subject to, the provisions of the Group Master Policy.
18.02	The Company’s Group Insurance Plan will include the following benefits as outlined:
(a)	T.ife and A.D. & D. Insurance
Effective March 26, 2000, All employees: $30,000
33
Effective March 26, 200 1, All employees: $3 1,000 Effective March 26, 2002, All employees: $32,000
(b)	Weekly Sickness and Accident Indemnity
Effective March 26, 2000	$338.00 per week
Effective March 26, 2001	$352.00 per week
Effective March 26, 2002	$367.00 per week
Indemnity payable first (1 st) day of accident or first (1 st) day of sickness in hospital and otherwise fourth (4th) day of sickness.
Weekly Indemnity benefits will be payable for a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks in any fifty-two (52) week period for any one sickness or accident.
(c)	Major Medical Benefits
(1) Prescriptions: Generic drugs only will be covered unless the treating physician specifies “No Substitution”.
If “brand name” drugs are purchased when a “generic” drug is available and the prescription was not marked “no substitution”, reimbursement will be restricted to 80% of the cost of the “brand name” drug.
Only drugs, sera and injectables available only by prescription when prescribed by a physician or dentist, and dispensed by a pharmacist, physician or dentist,
34
will be eligible for reimbursement.
Fertility Drugs will be covered at 50% for six (6) cycles with a maximum of $4000.00. Once in a lifetime.
The Company will provide a drug card with a $ 12.00 dispensing fee cap and a $ 1.50 per prescription deductible.
Orthotics will be covered at one (1) pair per calendar year to a maximum of $300.00.
(2) Vision Care: Effective March 26, 2000, a maximum of $200.00 in any 24 month period towards the purchase of prescription eye-glasses for each family member requiring prescription glasses.
(d)	Long Term Disability
For claims after March 26, 2000, the claim will be paid at sixty-four percent (64%) of the base monthly earnings in effect immediately prior to the date of disability subject to maximum benefit of $5,000 per month. This benefit commences after twenty-six (26) weeks of weekly indemnity and is payable while the employee is totally disabled, but not past age sixty-five (65).
For claims between March 26,1997 and March 25,
2000 (inclusive), the claim will be paid at sixty-two percent (62%) of the employee’s base monthly
35
earnings. Claims prior to March 26,1997 will be paid at sixty percent (60%) of the employee’s base monthly earnings.
(e)	Dental Plan Benefits
1)	Effective March 26,1997:
Deductible: $25.00 Single, $50.00 Family
The coverage is for the employees and their families to a maximum of $ 1,200 per annum for the employee and each member of his family. The dental plan expenses will be reimbursed based on the current fee schedule of the Ontario Dental Association in each year of the Agreement.
Dental expenses for periodic maintenance (cleaning, scaling, x-rays, etc.) will be reimbursed once every nine (9) months.
2)	The Dental benefit will be effective on the one year anniversary date of the employee’s seniority with the Company.
3)	Any maintenance work required on dentures can be claimed on an annual basis up to the $ 1,200 maximum as outlined in 1).
4)	Allowance of 16 units of scaling/root planning per year.
36
18.03
18.04
19.01
Major Medical and Dental expenses, as outlined elsewhere in this Article and the Group Master Policy, continue to be eligible for reimbursement at 100%.
A laid off employee will continue to be covered under the foregoing Group Policy (but excluding the weekly indemnity provisions) until the end of the month following the month of lay off at no cost to the employee. If the lay off extends beyond the above stated period, the employee may opt to continue such coverage for so long as he retains seniority, at his own expense.
ARTICLE 19 PENSION PLAN
(a) Effective March 26, 2000, a pension benefit of $17.00 per month for each full year of earned accredited service between March 26,1994 and March 25, 2000 and for each full year of future accredited service between March 26, 2000 and March 25, 2001.
Effective March 26, 200 1, a pension benefit of $ 18.00 per month for each full year of future accredited service between March 26, 2001 and March 25, 2003.
A pension benefit of $ 13.00 per month will be paid for each full year of service between March 26,1983 and March 25,1994.
37
For employees with seniority dates prior to March 26, 1983, the Company will provide an employee pension benefit improvement at $5.75 per month per year of service retroactive for all continuous service prior to March 26,1983, such that their credited service will be equal to their seniority.
For all employees in excess of twenty (20) years of continuous service, the Company will provide a supplement of $5.00 per month per year of service to the pension benefit for each year of accredited service after March 26,1983.
(b)	The normal retirement age for all employees will be 65 years.
(c)	In the event of termination of employment, or disability, an employee with at least two years of accredited service will be eligible for a deferred pension benefit.
(d)	Costs for this Pension Plan are paid for entirely by the Company.
(e)	Employees on Workers’ Compensation or Long Term Disability will continue to accumulate credited service.
(f)	There will be an option for employees with at least
38
ten years accredited service to elect an actuarial reduced pension benefit paid at age 60 or age 55 with 30 years accredited service.
(g)	The Company will recognize pension indexing if and when indexing is mandated under the Ontario Pension Benefits Act (1987).
Article 20
HEALTH AND SAFETY
20.01	The Company will establish a Joint Health & Safety Committee with representation from both Management and the Bargaining Unit as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act and made a part of this agreement as APPENDIX "B".
20.02	The Company agrees, upon presentation of a receipt, to pay for the cost of safety footwear up to a maximum of $75.00 per year.
This subsidy will be issued once within a one (1) year period, to those employees whose jobs are deemed to require foot protection (see Appendix “A”, agreement number 12). If the shoes/boots are damaged or worn out on the job in a period of less than one (1) year the Company at its discretion may replace the footwear.
39
Article 21 DURATION
2 1.01 This agreement will remain in force until the 25 th day of March 2003 and it shall continue in force from year to year thereafter, unless either party gives notice in writing to the other, not more than ninety (90) days nor less than sixty (60) days prior to the 25th day of March 2003 or the anniversary date of any subsequent yearly extension that it desires to terminate or amend the agreement.
40
SCHEDULE“A”
Job Classifications and Wage Rates
There are thirteen (13) job classes (8 conversion and 3 foamline) plus a skilled maintenance class that also includes the apprenticeship program. These job classes are listed with appropriate wage rates, elsewhere in this appendix. The Company agrees to discuss with the Union job classifications prior to the establishment of new jobs.
Progression
At hiring, an employee will be paid at the “Entry Level” rate indicated elsewhere in this appendix, until the completion of the sixty (60) work day probation for employees in Group 1 (Conversion and Foamline).
The probation period for new employees in Group 2 ( Skilled Maintenance) will be as follows:
(a)An employee hired as a Millwright/Machinist, will have completed his probationary period after he has finished the Millwright Apprenticeship Program and/or six (6) months.
At hiring, a Millwright/Machinist will be paid $1.00 less than the hourly rate for this position. Following three (3) months, the hourly rate will increase by $0.50 cents. After six (6) months, the rate will increase to the maximum job rate for this position.
The rate of pay for an apprentice will be as follows:
41
(i)	60% of Millwright/Machinist hourly rate for first 2000 hours;
(ii)	70% of Millwright/Machinist hourly rate for next 2000 hours;
(iii)	80% of Millwright/Machinist hourly rate for next 2000 hours;
(iv)	90% of Millwright/Machinist hourly rate for next 2000 hours;
(v)	100% of Millwright/Machinist hourly rate when certified.
(b) An employee hired as a Plant Electrician, will have completed his probationary period after he has worked six (6) months.
At hiring, the Plant Electrician will be paid $ 1.00 less than the hourly rate for this position. Following three (3) months, the hourly rate will increase by $0.50 cents. After six (6) months, the rate will increase to the maximum job rate for this position.
Job Class Changes
If an employee changes job classes through a promotion, transfer, demotion or by exercising seniority bumping rights, the employee will be paid at the job rate of the new job class.
For job changes to a higher job class, the rate of pay will be increased to the maximum job rate of the new job class effective on the date of change.
If the employee is transferred, laid off or demoted to a lower job
42
class, the rate of pay will be decreased to the maximum job rate of the new class, and will be implemented in accordance with the date of the change.
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CLASS
MAINTENANCE CLASS 2
-	Junior Mechanic Category
-	Able to troubleshoot, diagnose and repair all basic items
The Class M2 will exist until the current employee holding this position loses his seniority as outlined in Article 10.09 of this Collective Agreement.
MILLWRIGHT/MACHINIST
-	an employee in this position must meet the requirements of Bill 55 as outlined in Regulation 734 pertaining to General Machinist and/or Regulation 1063 pertaining to Industrial Mechanic (Millwright) or the most recent regulations under the Act.
Copies of the regulations are available through the Human Resources Department.
PLANT ELECTRICIAN
-	an employee in this position must meet the requirements of Bill 55 as outlined in Regulation 1062 pertaining to Industrial Electricians or the most recent regulations under the Act. Copies of the regulations are available through the Human Resources Department.
43
Posting
The Millwright/Machinist and Plant Electrician Positions will be posted in accordance to Article 10.06.
The Millwright Apprentice Position will be posted in accordance to Article 10.06.
This opportunity will not follow the normal bidding procedure.
It is the responsibility of the employee to inform management if outside factors, such as schooling or on-the-job training at any work location other than the company, has been completed in an appropriate craft. Such additional schooling or training will be considered by management regarding this type of advancement.
Millwright Apprenticeship Program
The Millwright Apprenticeship Program is in accordance with Bill 55 and Regulation 1063 pertaining to Industrial Mechanic (Millwright) or the most recent regulation as issued under the Act. Copies of the regulations are available through the Human Resources Department.
All applicants applying for this program must pass a mechanical aptitude test given by the Company and satisfy the academic entrance requirements before they will be able to participate in the Apprenticeship Program. An internal applicant will be allowed to write the mechanical aptitude test once every six (6) months and only if there is an opening for an Apprentice. External applicants will be allowed to write the test only once.
44
Training
It is understood that a Millwright/Machinist or a Plant Electrician employee who takes it upon himself to improve his skills with additional training will be granted a 25 cents per hour increase if such skill is either requested by and/or approved by Management
Tool Allowance
After one (1) year of service in the Maintenance Department, each classified maintenance employee will receive up to $175.00 tool allowance for each year of the contract. This allowance will be issued and administered by the Maintenance Superintendent on a tool by tool basis as required by the job and substantiated by a receipt.
45
SCHEDULE “A’
Group 1 - CONVERSION
Effective	Effective	Effective
Mar. 26. 2000 Mar. 26. 2001 Mar. 26. 2002
Job Class No. 1
Entry Level	11.95	12.31	12.65
These rates will remain in effect until the employee is placed in a job class. However, in no circumstances will these rates change until the employee has passed 60 working days of his probationary period.
Job Class No. 2	13.25	13.65	14.03
Furniture Hand Fab Automotive Hand Fab Packer Press Picker Material Handler Janitor
*Mattress Gluing: $.20 per hour in addition to the published rate.
Job Class No. 3	13.68	14.09	14.48
46
Veritcal Saw - other Laminator Crew
Side Trim Operator Cut-Off Operator Wind-Up Operator Cradle/Sealer Operator Shipper
Frank Edge Helper Baler Operator Black Brothers Helper Hot Melt Sealer Hot Melt Windup
Quality Control Inspector-Flame Lamination **
**Quality Control Inspector: $.13 per hour in addition to the published rate.
Job Class No. 4	14.04	14.46	14.86
Vertical Saw Operator Press Operator Carousel Operator Peeler Operator Profiler Operator Fecken Kirfel Operator Locator
Tunnel/Crane Operator Head Packer
Frank Edge - Cut Off Operator Assistant Receiver Fork Lift Operator
47
Furniture Material Handler BackupTrack Slitter Operator Backup Adhesive Laminator Operator Lab Helper Sample Coordinator Mattress Mat Handler***
*** Mattress Mat Handler: $0.20 per hour in addition to the published rate.
Job Class No. 5	14.74	15.18	15.60
Track Slitter Operator
Femco 4A6 Operator/Frank Edge
Operator****
Quality Control Coordinator Flame Lamination Head Shipper Maintenance Clerk Flame Laminator Backup Hot Melt Operator Shipper/Receiver
**** All employees currently in these positions as of the signing of this Agreement will continue to use their current job titles until they bid for a new job positing or lose their seniority as outlined in Article 10.09. Future job postings will reflect the new job title.
job Class No. 6	15.07	15.52	15.95
Laminator Operator - Automotive Automotive Set-up Person
48
Job Class No. 7	15.47	15.93
Freight Co-Ordinator • Del Trucks Flame Laminator Operator
Job Class No. 8	16.61	17.11
Freight Co-Ordinator - Tractors
SCHEDULE “A”
Group 1 - FOAMLINE
Effective	Effective
March 26. 2000 March 26.2001
Class F3	15.00	15.45
Foamline Equipment
Operator
Class F4	17.57	18.10
Assistant Operator Chemical Receiver
49
16.37
17.58
Effective March 26.2002
15.87
18.60
Class F5	19.36	19.94
Main Operator
Group 2 - SKILLED MAINTENANCE
Effective	Effective
March 26.2000 March 26. 2001
Class M2	19.03
Millwright/ Machinist +	22.19
Millwright/	
Machinist Trainer	22.69
Plant Electrician +	22.19
Plant	
Electrician /Programmer /Trainer	23.19
19.60
22.86
23.36
22.86
23.86
+Entry level $1.00/hour less than the top rate After 3 raos. $0.50/hour less than the top rate After 6mos. Top rate
50
20.49
Effective March 26.2002
20.14
23.49
23.99
23.49
24.49
APPENDIX “A” Letters of Confirmation
Agreement Number 1
The Company agrees to distribute the weekly pay to all wage earners no later than the end of the applicable shifts:
day shift - Thursday day afternoon shift - Thursday evening midnight shift - Friday morning
In the event that a holiday occurs on Friday the weekly pay will be issued as early as possible.
Agreement Number 2
Supervisors will not perform any of the work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit unless an emergency situation occurs. If an emergency situation occurs, then work may be performed by the supervisor temporarily so as not to disrupt production.
Agreement Number 3
The Company will issue a separate pay for vacation pay. Agreement Number 4
All retro-active pay in excess of $300 will be paid by separate pay.
Agreement Number 5
The Company agrees to maintain the current pay classes for
51
those employees who were affected negatively on job reclassification. It is also agreed that new employees starting on these jobs will be paid the new lower rates established at the time of negotiations,
Agreement Number 6
The Company agrees to provide insulated clothing and will make protective clothing available for employees working in areas that could cause more soiling to clothing than regular duties, or if they are exposed to inclement weather. Such clothing will be maintained and retained by the Company.
Agreement Number 7
The Company will not use outside contractors to perform work that in the Company’s opinion could be performed by the bargaining unit.
Agreement Number 8
The Company agrees that all new wage-earning employees will be required to complete an application for Union membership card, provided that the Union supplies said applications.
Agreement Number 9
The Company reserves the right to produce and deliver samples & prototypes as necessary as long as such work is not currently approved for production. Such deliveries are those normally made in a passenger car.
Agreement Number 10
The Company agrees to continue its practice of voiding disciplinary procedures against an employee if such an
52
employee has completed six (6) months without an infraction. In the case of safety violations this period will be extended to twelve (12) months.
Agreement Number 11
The Company agrees to continue to work with the Provincial Government or other appropriate agencies to set up a Maintenance Mechanic Apprenticeship Program within six (6) months. Such program to be subject to Government regulations and agreed upon between the parties.
If existing employees in Maintenance can take advantage of such a program they will be allowed to better themselves in the same manner. Management agrees to credit them with the time spent in the given trade and place them in the Apprenticeship program in the proper level.
The Company agrees to make calendars available from local universities and colleges for the use of interested parties.
Agreement Number 12
Job classifications that are required to wear proper foot protection:
-	automotive laminator crews
-	receivers
-	maintenance employees
-	foamline employees
-	health & safety committee (while on tour)
-	truck drivers
53
Agreement Number 13
In recognition of concerns expressed by the Union, the Company agrees to re-evaluate specific jobs that are considered to have increased duties and responsibilities.
Agreement Number 14
It is mutually agreed that Foamex Canada Inc. truck drivers will be considered to be used for state-side trips under extreme emergency only. Even then, it will be strictly on a volunteer basis by seniority. Should all qualified drivers fail to volunteer, then an outside carrier will be used with no fault given to any Foamex Canada Inc. driver for failing to volunteer.
Agreement Number 15
The Union will be notified of any upgrading being done in the Maintenance Department before the promotion goes through.
Agreement Number 16
The Company agrees to post shift lists on the Wednesday of each week.
APPENDIX "B " Health and Safety
Section 1
The purpose of this Safety and Health Article is to provide effective machinery for the elimination of all work conditions hazardous or potentially hazardous to the health and safety of the employees.
54
Section 2
The Company agrees to furnish each employee employment and a place of employment free from all recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to cause physical harm to the employee. The Company further agrees that the General Duty Clause (section 25, 26 and 27 of the Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations for Industrial Establishments) shall be abided.
All workers shall abide by section 28 of the Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations for Industrial Establishments.
Section 3
The Joint Labour/Management Safety Committee shall be appointed. The Committee shall be composed of at least three representatives of Management and of at least three representatives of the Local Union. The Union representatives shall be selected by the Local Union. Union and Company membership on the Committee shall be equal numbers. The Committee shall:
(a)	meet at least once a month on an established schedule.
(b)	make periodic tours of the plant but not less frequently than once every month, to coincide with the monthly meeting. The committee will choose one extra employee per month (by Dept.) to make the plant tour with them.
(c)	make preliminary industrial hygiene evaluations of exposure to designated substances. The Company
55
shall provide for and maintain appropriate equipment.
(d)	make recommendations for more complete industrial hygiene surveys.
(e)	make recommendations for the correction of unsafe or harmful conditions and the elimination of unsafe or harmful work practices. The Safety Co-ordinator shall be responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the Joint Labour/Management Safety Committee’s recommendations. All such recommendations shall include a target date for abatement of hazardous condition, or
(f)	the Accident Review Board will review and analyze all reports of industrial injury or illness, investigate causes of same, and recommend rules and procedures for the prevention of accidents and diseases and for the promotion of the health and safety of the employees.
(g)	promote health and safety education.
(h)	safety Committee members will be paid applicable hourly earnings for all time spent when meeting jointly with Management and for all required inspection or investigation of safety and health problems in the plant.
(i)	minutes shall be kept of all joint Committee meetings and a written report shall be prepared for review at the
56
next Committee meeting. Such report to be given to the Committee members at least two days prior to the scheduled meeting.
(j)	the Company will continue to allow Safety Committee members to enter the plant for the purpose of investigating safety and health conditions.
(k)	members of the Safety Committee shall be permitted to attend grievance meetings regarding safety and health problems, if requested.
Section 4
Up-to-date accident/injury reports shall be kept and maintained by the Company and reviewed during the Health & Safety Committee meeting. A copy of the accident/injury report will be given to the Co-Chairs of the Health and Safety Committee prior to the next meeting.
Section 5
The Company shall maintain a current file of all materials in use in its plants, including trade name, chemical name and code. Copies of this file shall be made available upon request to members of the Joint Labour/Management Safety Committee.
(a)	The Company shall identify all toxic materials.
(b)	The Company agrees to abide by the Regulation respecting Isocyanates made under the Occupational Health and Safety Act, or any other future designated substances.
57
Section 6
The Union members of the Committee may seek counsel and assistance of representatives of the USWA International Union and such representatives shall be granted the right to accompany the Committee on inspections, attend meetings of the Committee, and make recommendations to the Committee and shall be permitted to make such investigations and physical examinations as may be necessary with the approval of Management.
Section 7
The Company shall furnish competent medical services and supply adequate facilities for the proper first aid treatment of cases resulting from injury or physical impairments or afflictions obtained while in the plant. Copies of the reports of the medical findings made by the Company’s medical service or reports of outside medical services used by the Company shall be furnished to the employee. The confidentiality of medical results shall be respected. The Company shall provide necessary mutually acceptable biological studies where indicated by potentially hazardous materials.
Section 8
Refusal to work OHSA
Sec 43(3) A worker may refuse to work or do particular work where he has reason to believe that:
(a)	any equipment, machine, device or thing he is to use or operate is likely to endanger himself or another worker.
58
(b)	the physical condition of the work place or the part thereof in which he works or is to work is likely to endanger himself, or
(c)	any equipment, machine, device or thing he is to use or operate or the physical condition of the work place or the part thereof in which he works or is to work is in contravention of this Act or the regulations and such contravention is likely to endanger himself or another worker.
Sec 43(4) Upon refusing to work or do particular work, the worker shall promptly report the circumstances of his refusal to his employer or supervisor who shall forthwith investigate the report in the presence of the worker and if there is such in the presence of one of,
(a)	a committee member who represents workers if any
(b)	a health and safety representative if any
(c)	a worker who because of his knowledge, experience and training is selected by a trade union that represents the worker, or if there is no trade union is selected by the workers to represent them who shall be made available and who shall attend without delay.
Sec 43(5) Until the investigation is completed, the worker shall remain in a safe place near his work station.
Sec 43(6) Where, following the investigation or any steps taken to deal with the circumstances that caused the worker to refuse to work or do particular work, the worker has reasonable grounds to believe that,
59
(a)	the equipment, machine, device or thing that was the cause of his refusal to work or do particular work continues to be likely to endanger himself or another worker,
(b)	the physical condition of the work place or the part thereof in which he works continues to be likely to endanger himself; or
(c)	any equipment, machine, device or thing he is to use or operate or the physical condition of the work place or the part thereof in which he works or is to work is in contravention of this Act or the regulations and such contravention continues to be likely to endanger himself or another worker, the worker may refuse to work or do particular work and the employer or the worker or a person on behalf of the employer or worker shall cause an inspector to be notified thereof.
Section 9
No employee is expected to work on any job in the plant with which he is unfamiliar with. Such employee shall receive adequate safety training from his supervisor. This training shall include information on potential hazards on any material to which the employee is exposed.
Section 10
It is recognized that protective equipment and clothing are temporary measures for relief of conditions which must be subject to further corrective measures through engineering
60
changes or elimination of the hazard involved. The complete cost of all protective equipment shall be borne by the Company, with the exception of Protective Footwear - which is covered under Article 19.01 of this agreement.
Section 11
The Union agrees to make every reasonable effort to have its members observe all safety and health rules promulgated under this Agreement. The Union and Union members shall act in an advisory capacity in the performance of duties under this section, and it shall remain the exclusive responsibility of the Company to ensure the safety and health of its employees.
Section 12
An emergency response team shall be maintained and trained and shall periodically conduct evacuation drills.
Section 13
Management agrees to abide with all aspects of the Occupational Health and Safety Act as outline in the Regulations Respecting Designated Substances.
61
APPENDIX "C"
Two (2) Day Work Week (Slitter)
SCHEDULE
Two (2) crews would work two (2) days (Saturday and Sunday) at twelve (12) hours per shift. Shifts would rotate within the two (2) crews.
HOURS OF WORK
Subject to Article 14.01, the regular hours of work shall be twelve (12) hours in each of Saturday and Sunday.
REGULAR PAY
Employees working on this schedule will be paid at the rate of one and two thirds (1.67%) times the straight time hourly rate for all regularly scheduled hours worked between the hours of 11:00 p.m. on Friday evening and 11:00 p.m. on Sunday evening. For the purpose of clarity, the work week is defined as hours scheduled between 11:00 p.m. on Friday evening and 11:00 p.m. on Sunday evening.
PAY WEEK
For the purpose of computing pay, the pay week is defined as seven (7) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods commencing at 12:01 a.m. Monday and ending at 12:00 a.m. midnight on Sunday.
OVERTIME
Employees required to work in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times the straight time hourly rate of pay for hours worked.
62
Employees required to perform work in excess of twenty-four (24) hours of their work week (Saturday and Sunday) beginning with the regular scheduled starting time or on the employee’s scheduled day off, shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1.5) times their straight time hourly rate of pay for the first twenty-four (24) hours of overtime worked. Employees required to work beyond the twenty-four (24) hours of overtime in the pay week shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times the straight time hourly rate of pay.
PLANT HOLIDAYS
Employees required to work on a holiday which occurs on a Saturday or Sunday and which forms part of the regular scheduled work week, shall be paid the regular rate of pay for working such days for all hours worked plus the holiday pay. For purpose of clarity, holiday pay is defined as eight (8) hours of pay at the employee’s straight time rate.
Where a holiday occurs on the weekend shift, employees who regularly work the weekend shift will be required to work such holiday. Employees will not be entitled to a lieu day off for such holiday worked. Where a holiday occurs during the week and such holiday is not part of the regular work week for employees working the weekend shift, employees will be paid holiday pay calculated on eight (8) hours times the employees straight time rate.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE Bereavement Leave:
Subject to Article 11.03, employees will be granted a maximum of twenty-four (24) hours bereavement leave if
63
attending the funeral, and eight (8) hours bereavement leave if the employee is not attending the funeral. For the purpose of clarity and understanding, bereavement leave will be paid at the employee’s straight time hourly rate of pay.
WSIB:
An employee who is injured during working hours as a result of an occupational injury and who is unable to continue to work as a result of such injury, shall be paid for the balance of the regular shift at his regular rate of pay for such unworked hours, up to a maximum of twelve (12) hours.
OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION
Overtime shall be distributed in accordance to Article 14 of this Agreement. It is understood that hours worked on Saturday and Sunday by employees regularly scheduled to work Saturday and Sunday are considered regular hours worked and not overtime hours for purposes of entitlement to distributed hours of overtime that may be available from time to time.
WEEKLY INDEMNITY
Benefit entitlement is paid only for regular scheduled days of work that are missed due to accident/sickness provided the employee has served the necessary waiting period as outlined in Article 18 of this agreement. The three (3) day waiting period for the purpose of the two (2) day work week will be fourteen and a quarter (14.25) hours.
64
*****************************************************************
Executed by the duly authorized representatives of the parties this
65
EMPLOYEE PENSION
INFORMATION BOOKLET
Foamex
Canada Inc.
BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES’
PENSION PLAN
INDEX
PAGE
INTRODUCTION JOINING THE PLAN CONTRIBUTIONS RETIREMENT DATES RETIREMENT BENEFITS DEATH BENEFITS
TERMINATION OF
EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
MISCELLANEOUS
1
3
4
5
6
10
11
12
October 2000
FOAMEX CANADA INC.
INTRODUCTION
This Employee Pension Information Booklet outlines the rules of your Pension Plan and is intended to provide you with a straightforward summary of the various benefits it offers.
We strongly advise you, and where applicable your spouse or same-sex partner, to read it carefully to ensure that you understand the benefits to which you are entitled.
Please note that this booklet is for your guidance only. The official Text describes the provisions of the Foamex Canada Inc. Bargaining Unit Employees’ Pension Plan (“the Plan”) and, in the event of differences between the description of benefits outlined in this booklet and those contained in “the Plan”, the latter will prevail.
PLAN PURPOSE
The purpose of the Plan is to provide you and your spouse/same-sex partner or dependents with income security at retirement.
It has been designed to provide employees with a pension at retirement which, when combined with the benefits payable through the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan and Old Age Security, will provide a pension between 50% and 70% of the employment income that you were earning just before retiring (depending on length of service).
Those Members with fewer years of service will receive a lower pension although this will often be made up by pension earned elsewhere.
JOINING THE PLAN
WHEN DO I BECOME ELIGIBLE TO JOIN THE PLAN?
If you are a permanent, full-time employee you shall join on the 1st day of the month coincident with or next following employment.
If you are a permanent part-time employee you are eligible to join the Plan on the date you have completed twenty-four months of continuous employment provided that in each of the two consecutive preceding calendar years you have earned at least 35% of the Canada Pension Plan’s Year’s Maximum Pensionable Earnings (YMPE), or have 700 hours of employment with the Company.
HOW DO I JOIN THE PLAN?
To join the Plan, you must complete and sign an Enrollment Form and return it to your human resources department.
The Form is important because the information it contains will affect the pension you receive at retirement and provides information about who should receive benefits in the event of your death.
CONTRIBUTIONS
DO I CONTRIBUTE TO THE PLAN?
No, you are not required to contribute to the Plan.
HOW MUCH WILL THE COMPANY CONTRIBUTE?
Foamex Canada Inc. funds for the entire cost of your pension benefit.
4
RETIREMENT DATES
WHEN CAN I RETIRE? Normal Retirement
Your Normal Retirement Date is the first day of the month coincident with or immediately following the day you reach age 65.
Early Retirement
You may retire, and receive a monthly pension, on the first day of any month within the lo-year period prior to your 65th birthday. This Early Retirement benefit is available if you have completed 2 years of membership in the Plan, and in accordance with Foamex Canada Inc. ’s employee relations policies.
5
RETIREMENT BENEFITS
HOW MUCH PENSION WILL I RECEIVE WHEN I RETIRE ON MY NORMAL RETIREMENT DATE?
Your annual pension payable at Normal Retirement Date is based on the following schedule:
To
From
Date of Hire March 26,1983 March 26,1994 March 26, 2001
March 25, 1983 March 25,1994 March 25, 2001 March 25, 2003
Benefit Rate Per Month of Credited Service
$5.15
$13.00
$17.00
$18.00
Supplemental Monthly Benefit for Service Over 20 Years
March26,1983	March25,2003	$5.00
Please note that these rates are in effect to March 25,2003. After this date, please refer to the current Collective Agreement.
EXAMPLE:
The following example illustrates how a pension benefit is calculated for a Member with 21 years of Plan Membership from January 1, 1981 to January 1, 2002:
1.1.81 to 25.3.83 26.3.83 to 25.3.94 26.3.94 to 25.3.01 26.3.01 to 1.1.02:
27 months 132 months 84 months 9 months 253 months
x $5.75 x $13.00 x $17.00 x $18.00 (21y lm)
= $155.25 = $1,716.00 = $1,428.00 = $162.00 $3,461.25
Plus benefit for service in excess of 20 years:
21 years 1 month-20 years = 1 year 1 month (13 months) 13 months x $5.00 = $65.00
Total Benefit Accrual from January I, 1981 to January I, 2002
= $3,461.25+ $65.00
= $3,526.25 per annum commencing at age 65
WHAT IF I RETIRE BEFORE MY NORMAL RETIREMENT DATE?
Your annual pension will be reduced by the lesser of; the actuarial equivalent or, 0.5% for each complete month by which your actual retirement date precedes your normal retirement date.
EXAMPLE:
If the Member from page 7 retires at age 60, the annual pension payable from age 60 would equal $2,468.38.
7
IN WHAT FORM WILL MY PENSION BE PAID?
The Plan provides that your pension will be payable to you in monthly installments for your lifetime.
Under pension legislation, if you have a spouse/same-sex partner when your pension begins, your pension must be paid in a joint and survivor form. This form of payment provides a reduced pension to you in equal monthly installments during your lifetime and continues to pay 60% of your pension to your surviving spouse/same-sex partner on your death.
WHO QUALIFIES AS AN ELIGIBLE SPOUSE/SAME-SEX PARTNER?
An eligible spouse is a person of the. opposite sex to whom you are legally married and living with at the time you retire, or are not married to and are living in a conjugal relationship for a continuous period of at least three years, or if you are the natural or adoptive parents of a child.
A same-sex partner is a person of the same sex with whom you are living in a conjugal relationship for a continuous period of at least three years, or if you are the natural or adoptive parents of a child.
WHAT IF I DO NOT WANT THE NORMAL SPOUSAL/SAME-SEXPARTNERBENEFIT?
You may select an optional form of pension only if your spouse or same-sex partner has reviewed the options and
8
agrees to waive his or her right to the spousal/same-sex partner benefit and signs a Waiver Form to that effect.
WHAT ARE SOME OF THE OPTIONAL FORMS OF PENSION AVAILABLE?
If the normal form of pension or spousal/same-sex partner pension is not suitable to your needs, you may select one of the following alternative options.
The actual amount of increased or decreased pension available to you under the following options will be quoted to you at your actual retirement date.
The options are available whether you elect an Early Retirement, or Normal Retirement.
A.	Members Without A Spouse/Same-Sex Partner
You may choose a different guarantee period; 5,10, or 15 years. A guarantee period of 5,10 or 15 years will decrease your amount of pension.
In the event of your death prior to having received all guaranteed payments, the pension payments will continue to your beneficiary for the balance of the guarantee period.
B.	Members With A Spouse/Same-Sex Partner
You may choose a different guarantee period (5,10 or 15 years) and/or a different reduction factor (such as 50%, 75% or 100%). Provincial legislation
9
requires that on your death, 60% of your pension must continue to your spouse or same-sex partner. If you choose a lower reduction factor, you and your spouse or same-sex partner must complete a Spousal
Waiver Form.
HOW CAN I FIND OUT WHICH OPTION WOULD BE BEST FOR ME?
At your actual retirement date, you will be given an option form describing the different options available to you, as well as the exact amounts of pension payable. Also, you may request to have any additional forms of pension quoted.
DEATH BENEFITS
WHAT HAPPENS IF I DIE BEFORE I RETIRE?
In the event of your death before retirement while in the service of Foamex Canada Inc. your spouse/same-sex partner or your beneficiary if you don’t have a spouse/same-sex partner, will be entitled to the cash value of your pension benefit accrued after December 3 1,1986.
10
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
In the event of your termination of employment:
a)	With respect to your pension benefits earned prior to January 1,1987, if you have completed ten (10) or more years of credited service, you will be entitled to a deferred pension payable at your Normal Retirement Date.
b)	With respect to your pension benefits earned after December 3 1,1986, if you have completed two (2) or more years of credited service, you will be entitled to a deferred pension payable at your Normal Retirement Date.
PORTABILITY
If you are entitled to a deferred pension under the Plan, you may elect to have the value of the pension transferred to a Locked-In Retirement Account (LIRA).
Locked-In means you cannot take this benefit as cash but, as early as age 55, you may transfer this benefit to purchase an annual pension from an insurance company, or to a prescribed retirement savings arrangement.
11
MISCELLANEOUS
INCOME TAX
Any cash benefit you receive will be taxable unless transferred to aRRSP or LIRA.
PROVINCIAL LEGISLATION
Your Pension Plan has been designed to provide Members with benefits and rights that would not be less than those that are required under the Ontario Pension Benefits Act.
PENSION ADJUSTMENT (PA)
A Pension Adjustment, or PA, is the value, for income tax purposes, of the pension benefit that you earned in a particular taxation year. Your PA will be shown on your T4 every year and will help determine how much you can
contribute to your RRSP in the following taxation year.
PENSION ADJUSTMENT REVERSAL (PAR)
The purpose of the Pension Adjustment Reversal is to reverse previous Pension Adjustments (PAs) for terminating plan members, thereby restoring RRSP contribution room. Essentially a PAR is the difference between the total of all PAs reported for you during your membership in the plan and the actual cash (transfer) benefit received on termination.
12
YOUR
GROUP INSURANCE PLAN
Foamex
HOURLY EMPLOYEES
IMPORTANT
This booklet contains important information concerning your group
coverage and should be kept in a safe place. It supersedes and replaces all previous communication material.
Manulife Financial's services with respect to Weekly Indemnity, Hospital, Major Medical and Dental Benefits are provided on an administrative basis only. Such benefits are not insured by Manulife Financial. All other benefits are underwritten and insured by Manulife Financial.
This booklet summarizes the benefits and provisions of your Group Plan. It does not constitute the Group Contracts and is not a contract of insurance, nor does it create or confer any contractual or other rights. Every effort has been made to ensure that the information is accurate. However, if there is any question as to interpretation, all rights with respect to a covered person will be governed solely by the Group Contracts issued by The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company to FOAMEX Canada Inc.
A copy of the Plan information may be obtained upon written request to your employer, who may make a reasonable charge for this service.
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
Life Benefit
Employee	...........$26,000
AD&D Benefit
Employee . . . . ,...................................., . $26,000
Weekly Indemnity
Employee	.......................... $260 per week
Long Term Disability
Employee..................................60% of monthly earnings
up to a maximum of $5,000 per month
Hospital Benefit
Employee and dependent(s) . . , . , ,.....Room and board charges
up to the level of semi-private accommodation
Major Medical Benefit
Employee and dependent(s) ....... 100% for all eligible expenses
(unless otherwise specified)
Dental Benefit
Employee and dependent(s) .................... After a deductible,
100% of eligible expenses to a maximum of $1,000 per
person per calendar year
NOTE:	You will be covered for the benefits indicated above, provided eligibility requirements
have been met and application for the applicable benefits has been made.
GENERAL INFORMATION
PLAN EFFECTIVE DATE
The Plan described in this booklet is up to date as of August 1,1994. ELIGIBILITY
All full-time hourly employees residing in Canada are eligible to participate in this Plan.
If you have dependents residing in Canada, you may cover them as well. Your spouse* and your unmarried children (including adopted, foster and step-children) who are less than 22 years of age are eligible. Unmarried children, who are full-time students and dependent upon you for support, will be eligible until age 25.
Any mentally or physically handicapped child may remain covered past the maximum age. The child, upon reaching maximum age, must still be incapable of self-sustaining employment and be completely dependent on you for support and maintenance.
* “Spouse” means a person who either:
a)	is married through an ecclesiastical or civil ceremony to an employee, or
b)	although not legally married to an employee, cohabits with the employee in a husband and wife relationship, which is recognized as such in the community in which they reside.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVERAGE
Your coverage, as well as your dependents', is effective on the date you complete a waiting period of continuous service, for full-time and full pay, as follows:
a)	For the Dental benefit, one year of seniority, and
b)	For all other benefits, 90 days of continuous active employment.
If you are initially covered for employee only coverage, and later acquire a dependent, your dependent will be enrolled in the Plan. You should advise your employer, as soon as possible, of your change in status.
Note: If you are covered under your spouse's health care plan you are not required to apply for Health Care coverage under this Plan. However, if coverage under your spouse’s plan should terminate, you may apply for coverage under this Plan within 31 days.
1
Should you apply after the 31 day period the following will apply:
1.	For the Dental Benefit - Coverage will commence on the date you apply. However, the amount payable will be limited to $100 during the first 12 months your coverage is in force.
2.	For Other Coverage - You will be required to submit evidence of good health. Coverage will become effective on the date Manulife Financial approves such evidence.
If you are not actively at work on the date your coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on your return to work for fulltime and full pay.
If one of your dependents is hospitalized (other than a new-born infant) on the date coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on the day following discharge from the hospital. Once you are covered for dependent coverage, additional dependents will be covered from the date eligible, regardless of hospital confinement.
2
DEATH & ACCIDENT PROTECTION
LIFE BENEFIT
If you should die, regardless of the cause, the amount shown in your Schedule of Benefits will be paid to your beneficiary. Payment of benefit and changes in beneficiary designation are subject to applicable government legislation. If there is no beneficiary the benefit is payable to your estate.
DISABILITY BENEFIT
If you should become totally disabled prior to age 65 and remain disabled for at least 6 months, your Life coverage will remain in force. Satisfactory proof of disability must be submitted within 12 months of the commencement of disability and when requested thereafter.
The coverage will remain in force until the time it would normally have ceased if you were not totally disabled. However, should the plan terminate, your coverage will remain in force.
NOTE:	The Disability Benefit will cease when you attain age 65.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH
AND DISMEMBERMENT BENEFIT
This Plan offers you 24-hour protection against covered accidents occurring anywhere in the world.
“Covered accident” means an accident causing death or bodily injury while you are covered under this Plan, unless specifically excluded.
PAYMENT OF BENEFIT
The principal amount of the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefit for which you are covered is shown in your Schedule of Benefits.
The percentage of the principal amount payable varies, depending on the extent of the loss, as shown in the following table.
SPECIFIED LOSS
The benefit for Specified Loss is payable if, as a result of a covered accident, you should suffer a loss within 365 days of the accident, as specified below.
Specified Loss
Amount Payable
Life ...................................
Both hands or both feet ................
Sight of both eyes .....................
One hand and one foot...................
One hand and sight of one eye ..........
One foot and sight of one eye ..........
One arm or one leg......................
One hand or one foot ...................
Sight of one eye .......................
Thumb and index finger of the same hand At least four fingers of the same hand . .
All toes of one foot ...................
Hearing in both ears and speech ........
Speech .................................
Hearing in both ears....................
Hearing in one ear .....................
Use of both hands or both feet .........
Use of one arm or one leg...............
Use of one hand or one foot ............
Hemiplegia .............................
Paraplegia .............................
Quadriplegia ...........................
100% 100% 100% 100% . 100% . 100% .	75%
66 2/3% 66 2/3% 33 1/3% 33 1/3% .	25%
. 100% 66 2/3% 66 2/3% .	25%
. 100% .	75%
66 2/3% 200% 200% 200%
If you suffer more than one loss as a result of the same accident, the total benefit payable will not exceed the principal amount for which you are covered except for hemiplegia, paraplegia or quadriplegia in which case the total benefit will not exceed 200%, provided such benefit is paid while you are living.
No more than one loss, the largest, is payable for multiple injuries to the same limb.
“Loss of life” means death resulting from one of the following:
1.	An accidental injury visible on the surface of the body or disclosed by an autopsy.
2.	A disease or infection resulting directly from an accidental injury.
3.	An accidental drowning.
BENEFICIARY
In the event of your death, the benefit is payable to the beneficiary you have appointed under your Life Benefit.
4
EXPOSURE AND DISAPPEARANCE
The benefit for Specified Loss will also be payable if, as a result of a covered accident, you suffer a specified loss due to unavoidable exposure to the elements of nature, within 365 days of the accident.
If as a result of the disappearance, wrecking or sinking of the conveyance in which you were riding at the time of a covered accident, you disappear, and the body is not found within 1 year following the accident, the benefit for loss of life will be payable on the presumption of death due to the accident.
DISABILITY BENEFIT
If you should become totally disabled prior to age 65 and remain disabled for at least 6 months, your Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage will remain in force, as long as you continue to be totally disabled. The coverage will remain in force until the time it would normally have ceased if you were not totally disabled. Proof of disability must be submitted within 12 months of the commencement of disability and when requested thereafter.
NOTE:	The Disability Benefit will cease when you attain age 65.
REHABILITATION EXPENSES
If as a result of a covered accident, you suffer a loss and must participate in a rehabilitation program in order to qualify for employment, reimbursement will be made for reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred within 3 consecutive years of the accident.
The maximum benefit is $10,000. Travelling, clothing and living expenses are not eligible.
REPATRIATION EXPENSES
If you should die as a result of a covered accident which occurs 150 kilometers or more from home, reimbursement will be made for reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred for preparation of the body and transportation to the first resting place nearest home.
The maximum benefit is $10,000.
FAMILY TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES
If you suffer a loss as a result of a covered accident and are confined to a hospital which is 150 kilometers or more from home, reimbursement will be made for reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred by a member of the immediate family as follows:
1.	For hotel accommodation in the vicinity of the hospital.
5
2.	For transportation to and from the hospital. When transportation is by other than a vehicle licensed for fare-paying passengers, 20C per kilometer will be payable. .
The maximum benefit is $1,500.
“Member of the Immediate Family” means a person at least 18 years of age who is your spouse, child, parent, brother, sister, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
DEPENDENT EDUCATION EXPENSES
If you should die as a result of a covered accident, reimbursement will be made for tuition expenses actually incurred after your death for each child who is enrolled as a full-time student at an accredited institute of higher learning above the secondary school level. Post-secondary tuition expenses will also be paid for each child who is enrolled at the secondary school level, provided the child enrols as a full-time student at an institute above the secondary school level within 365 days after your death.
“School for higher learning” means an accredited institute of learning (including any university, private college, CEGEP, community college, or trade school) above the secondary school level.
The maximum benefit per child per year is the lesser of $5,000, or 5% of your principal amount, for a maximum of 4 years. Travelling, clothing and living expenses are not eligible.
SPOUSAL OCCUPATIONAL TRAINING EXPENSES
If you should die as a result of a covered accident, and your spouse requires formal occupational training in order to qualify for employment in an occupation for which your spouse is not sufficiently qualified, reimbursement will be made for reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred for such a program within 3 years following the accident.
The maximum benefit is $10,000. Travelling, clothing and living expenses are not eligible.
EXCEPTIONS
No benefit will be payable for any claim arising as a direct or indirect result of:
1.	Suicide or self-inflicted injuries while sane or insane.
2.	War, or any act of war, whether declared or not.
3.	Service in the armed forces of any country which is in a state of war.
6
4.	Riding in, boarding or leaving, or descending from, any aircraft if:
a)	you are the pilot, the operator, or a member of the crew.
b)	the aircraft is owned, operated or leased by or on behalf of the
employer.
c)	the aircraft is piloted by an unlicensed person.
d)	the aircraft does not have a valid certificate of air worthiness.
DISABILITY INCOME
WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
If you are totally disabled*, unable to work, and under the continuing care of a physician, you will receive a weekly income as shown in your Schedule of Benefits.
* “Totally disabled” means the inability to work for your employer for wages or profit, due to bodily injury or sickness.
Your weekly benefit will be reduced by any income you are eligible to receive from the following sources:
1.	Any plan of automobile insurance providing income replacement indemnity, which has been approved as an acceptable limitation by the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
2.	Earnings or payments from any employer.
3.	Earnings recovered through a legally enforceable cause of action against some other person or corporation (in accordance with provisions under Third Party Liability).
4.	Disability benefits payable under Canada/Quebec Pension Plan including those benefits payable to you on behalf of a dependent.
The amount of benefit payable by Manulife Financial will not be affected by changes in your Canada or Quebec Pension Plan benefit unless the changes result from:
1.	A correction due to an error made when your award was originally determined.
2.	A change of 10% or more in the benefit formula under the government plan.
3.	A change in dependent status (where applicable).
Manulife Financial reserves the right to estimate the amount of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan award pending advice of the actual award.
REDUCED WEEKLY BENEFIT
If you participate in a Modified Work Program, your weekly income will be further reduced by 50% of your earnings from the Modified Work Program. If the reduced weekly benefit exceeds 100% of your earnings at the date disability commenced, the reduced weekly benefit shall be further reduced by the amount of such excess.
8
COMMENCEMENT OF BENEFITS
Your benefits will commence on the earlier of:
1.	The 4th working day of a disability caused by sickness.
2.	The 1st working day of a disability due to an accident.
3.	The 1st working day of hospitalization, provided you are a registered bed patient who has been formally admitted and assigned to a bed in a hospital on a physician's order.
MAXIMUM BENEFIT PERIOD
During any one period of disability, your benefits will continue until you recover or have received benefits for a maximum of 26 weeks in any 52-week period for any one sickness or accident, whichever is earlier.
CESSATION OF BENEFIT PAYMENTS
Your weekly payments will cease on the earliest of the following events:
1.	The date you are no longer totally disabled, except as specified under REDUCED WEEKLY BENEFIT.
2.	The date you have received benefit payments for 26 weeks.
3.	The date you reach age 65.
4.	The date you fail to undergo, when requested by Manulife Financial, a physical examination and/or mental evaluation.
5.	The date you refuse to complete and return a Reimbursement Agreement/Direction form or comply with the terms of a signed Reimbursement Agreement/Direction form, when requested, in accordance with the provisions under Third Party Liability.
6.	If you should die.
7.	On the date you retire.
8.	On the date you fail to participate in a Modified Work Program.
THIRD PARTY LIABILITY
If you have a cause of action against a Third Party for income lost as a result of your disability, the Weekly Indemnity benefit will be payable as specified. However, prior to the commencement of payments, you will be required to complete a Reimbursement Agreement/Direction form, agreeing to reimburse Manulife Financial. The amount to be reimbursed will not exceed the amount of benefits paid by Manulife Financial.
Full details concerning terms and calculation of reimbursement are as set out in the Agreement.
9
RECURRENT DISABILITIES
Once you have been disabled and have received benefits under this Plan, a later disability will be defined as recurrent when it is separated from the previous one by less than 2 weeks of full-time active employment.
A disability will be considered to be recurrent if it results from an injury or sickness which is directly related to the causes of the immediately preceding disability.
If any period of disability is classified as “recurrent”, it will be treated as a continuation of the previous disability. You will not have to resatisfy any qualifying periods which may apply. Payments will continue for the remainder of the maximum benefit period.
LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT
The Long Term Disability Benefit provides income security should you become totally disabled and remain so over a long period of time. In order to receive this benefit you must remain under the continuing care of a physician.
Your benefit will be as shown in your Schedule of Benefits.
This amount will be reduced by other income you may be entitled to receive from the following sources:
1.	Disability benefits payable under the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan, excluding benefits payable on behalf of your dependents.
2.	Earnings or payments from any employer.
3.	Disability benefits payable under any other group, association or franchise insurance plan.
4.	Disability and income replacement benefits payable under any government plan (excluding Unemployment Insurance Benefits).
5.	Benefits payable under any workers’ compensation act.
6.	Retirement or pension benefits provided by an employer and/or a government.
7.	Income replacement indemnity payable under any plan of automobile insurance.
8.	Earnings recovered through a legally enforceable cause of action against some other person or corporation (in accordance with provisions under Third Party Liability).
10
The benefit, as calculated, will be further reduced by any amount by which such benefit, plus the income from all sources just outlined (including Canada/Quebec Pension Plan Benefits payable to you on behalf of dependents), exceeds 85% of your pre-disability gross earnings.
The amount of benefit payable by Manulife Financial will not be affected by changes in your Canada or Quebec Pension Plan benefit unless the changes result from:
1.	A correction due to an error made when your award was originally
determined.
2.	A change of 10% or more in the benefit formula under the government
plan.
3.	A change in dependent status (where applicable).
PUBLIC PENSION PLANS
Your monthly benefit will not be reduced by disability benefits payable under a public pension plan (CPP/QPP) until actual determination of the award has been made, if, at the time you submit your L.T.D. claim, you sign an agreement to reimburse Manulife Financial.
Otherwise, CPP/QPP benefits which have not been determined by the time your benefit is payable will be estimated and deducted from your monthly benefit. Adjustments to correct such payments will be made after the award has been determined.
COMMENCEMENT OF BENEFITS
Benefits begin after a qualifying period of 26 weeks of continuous total disability, provided proof of disability is submitted within 6 months following the qualifying period. While receiving benefits, further proof of total disability may be required by Manulife Financial.
THIRD PARTY LIABILITY
If you have a cause of action against a Third Party for income lost as a result of your disability, the Long Term Disability benefit will be payable as specified. However, prior to the commencement of payments, you will be required to complete a Reimbursement Agreement/Direction form, agreeing to reimburse Manulife Financial. The amount to be reimbursed will not exceed the amount of benefits paid by Manulife Financial.
Full details concerning terms and calculation of reimbursement are as set out in the Agreement.
11
CESSATION OF BENEFIT PAYMENTS
Your monthly payments will cease on the earliest of the following events:
1.	The date you are no longer totally disabled.
2.	The date you reach age 65. However, should you complete the qualifying period after your 64th birthday but prior to your 65th birthday, the monthly income payments will continue beyond age 65, until a total of 12 monthly payments have been made.
3.	The date you fail to undergo, when requested by Manulife Financial, medical, psychiatric, psychological, educational and/or vocational examinations by examiners selected by Manulife Financial.
4.	The date you fail to undergo medical, psychiatric or psychological treatment or participate in a rehabilitation program or alcoholism, drug addiction or substance abuse treatment program when recommended by Manulife Financial.
5.	The date you are incarcerated in a prison of mental institution by authority of a criminal court.
6.	The date you refuse to complete and return a Reimbursement Agreement/Direction form or comply with the terms of a signed Reimbursement Agreement/Direction form, when requested, in accordance with the provisions under Third Party Liability.
7.	On the date you die.
DEFINITION OF TOTAL DISABILITY
“Totally disabled” means you are wholly and continuously disabled due to illness or bodily injury and, as a result, you are not physically or mentally fit to perform the essential duties of your normal occupation during the qualifying period and the succeeding 24 months. After this time, you will still be considered totally disabled provided you are unable to perform the essential duties of your normal occupation and any other occupation:
1.	For which you are, or may become fitted, by education, training and/or experience.
2.	For which the current monthly earnings are 75% or more of the current monthly earnings for your normal occupation.
The availability of such occupations, jobs or work will not be considered in assessing your disability.
Confinement is not normally required. However, you must be under the regular care of a physician, and be prepared to attempt rehabilitative employment, or participate in a rehabilitation programme considered appropriate by Manulife Financial.
12
NOTE: If you must hold a government permit or license to perform your duties you will not be considered totally disabled solely because such permit or license has been withdrawn or not renewed.
REHABILITATION
Long Term Disability benefits are designed to be paid during periods when you are disabled and cannot work. Often however, there will be a time when, although you are not yet fully recovered, you can work at some type of job and possibly earn an income.
Therefore, you will be encouraged to participate in a Rehabilitation program developed by Manulife Financial’s Rehabilitation Counsellors in consultation with your physician, employer and Rehab specialists.
In order to participate in a Rehab program not developed by Manulife Financial, the program must be approved by Manulife Financial.
Although most income is normally used to reduce L.T.D. benefits, in the case of Rehab, for a maximum of 24 months, only half of these earnings will be used to reduce your L.T.D. payments.
NOTE: If at any time, the income you receive from Rehabilitative employment equals 75% or more of the current monthly earnings for your normal occupation, your L.T.D. benefit payments will cease. Otherwise, while on Rehab your income from all sources cannot be greater than 100% of your gross earnings prior to your disability.
RECURRENT DISABILITIES
If you cease to be totally disabled at any time during the qualifying period and become disabled again, due to the same cause, within 2 weeks, the qualifying period will be extended by the number of days during which you cease to be disabled.
Once you have been disabled and have received benefits under this Plan, a later disability will be defined as recurrent when it is separated from the previous one by less than 6 months of full-time active employment.
A disability will be considered to be recurrent if it results from an injury or sickness which is directly related to the causes of the immediately preceding disability.
Once you are receiving L.T.D. benefits, any period of disability which is classified as “recurrent” will be treated as a continuation of the previous disability. You will not have to resatisfy the qualifying period, and benefits will begin again immediately.
13
EXCEPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS (For Disability Income)
Disability Income is not payable for the following:
1.	A disability caused by self-inflicted injuries or illness.
2.	A disability resulting from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country, or participation in a riot.
In addition, Weekly Indemnity benefits will not be payable for:
1.	A disability for which you are entitled to benefits under any workers' compensation act.
2.	A disability at any time when you are on vacation and receiving full pay.
3.	Cosmetic surgery of treatment, when so classified by Manulife Financial, unless such surgery or treatment is for accidental injury and commenced within 90 days of an accident.
In addition, Long Term Disability benefits will not be payable for:
1.	A disability which is the direct or indirect result of committing a criminal offense.
2.	A disability which commences on or after the date a strike begins.
Complications due to pregnancy are covered. However, any disability due to any cause will not be eligible for benefits at any time when you are on leave of absence or could be placed on such leave by your employer in accordance with relevant government legislation or the leave agreed upon by you and your employer.
14
HEALTH CARE
HOSPITAL BENEFIT
If you or a covered dependent, are confined in a licensed hospital, you will be reimbursed for room and board charges in excess of ward accommodation up to the level of accommodation shown in your Schedule of Benefits. If confined in a private room, payment will be based on the hospital's charge for semi-private room and board.
MAJOR MEDICAL BENEFIT
PAYMENT OF BENEFITS
On behalf of each covered individual of your family, this Benefit pays the percentage shown in your Schedule of Benefits, unless otherwise specified below, for eligible expenses.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
Eligible expenses must be reasonable and customary and (except for expense #3 and #1 8) recommended as medically necessary by a physician. Payment will be based on reasonable and customary charges in the area in which the treatment is rendered.
The following is a list of the items currently eligible for payment under this Group Plan. However, should your Provincial Health Plan alter to include any of these items, coverage under this Plan will automatically adjust in accordance with the approved legislation.
In order to avoid unnecessary out-of-pocket expenses consult with your Administrator, prior to incurring any expense.
1. Generic drugs**, sera and injectables available only on a prescription*
by a physician or dentist and dispensed by a pharmacist, dentist or a physician, subject to the following limitations:
Fertility Drugs: 50% reimbursement, for 6 cycles, to a lifetime maximum of $4,000.
Oral Contraceptives: maximum of 14 packages per person per 12 months.
Imitrex: maximum reimbursement of $350 per person per calendar
year.
Antihistamines: maximum reimbursement of $200 per person per
calendar year.
Dispensing Fees: maximum reimbursement of $10 per prescription.
* Those drugs which legally require a written prescription in order to
be purchased.
15
2.	Generic drugs* * and supplies of a non-prescription nature required as a result of a colostomy or ileostomy and/or for the treatment of cystic fibrosis, diabetes, parkinsonism or heart disease.
** Generic drug expenses, and brand name drugs if the physician or dentist has indicated “no substitution”, will be reimbursed at 100%. If an interchangeable generic product is available but not dispensed, and the physician or dentist allows substitution, reimbursement will be restricted to 80% of the cost of the brand name drug.
In order to reduce costs, it is strongly recommended that you purchase maintenance drugs in a 3-month supply.
3.	Professional services of the following licensed, certified or registered paramedical practitioners (when operating within their recognized fields) up to the levels specified in the following table:
Practitioner
Psychologist
Speech Therapist
Podiatrist *
Chiropractor
Osteopath
Naturopath
Masseur
Physiotherapist
Amount per visit for treatment or therapy
$20
Total yearly maximum payable per person
$250
$200
$8 less any	20 visits for
government plan	each type of
payments* *	practitioner
reasonable and customary charges
Charges for x-rays are covered up to $20 per calendar year for all pa famedical practitioners combined.
*	Also eligible is a payment of up to $100 for the surgical removal of toe nails or the excision of plantar warts.
*	* Under some circumstances, benefits may not be payable un til the
government plan concerned has paid its yearly maximum. Check with your Personnel Department if you require further details.
4.	Diagnostic procedures, radiology, blood transfusions and oxygen (including the equipment necessary for its administration).
16
5.	Services of a Registered Nurse (R.N.), while the patient is not confined to hospital, provided the services are certified as medically necessary and ordered by a physician subject to a maximum of $10,000 per
person per calendar year.
If an R.N. is not available when needed, medically required nursing services of a Registered Nursing Assistant or a Licensed Practical Nurse or a Certified Nursing Assistant will be considered eligible to the extent that such persons are qualified to provide the required nursing services. However, any such nurse must not ordinarily reside in the patient's home. Services of a nurse who is your spouse, or the child, brother, sister, or parent of yourself or your spouse, will not be considered.
6.	Transportation by a licensed ground ambulance to and from the nearest medical facilityfor immediate treatment.
If medically necessary, transportation by any form of licensed ambulance (including air-ambulance) or by any vehicle normally used for public transportation, for:
a)	transfer to the nearest appropriate medical facility or hospital for
necessary treatment, and/or
b)	medical evacuation for admission to hospital in the province where the patient normally resides.
Ground transportation to and from the hospital and airport at the point of departure and arrival is also eligible.
7.	Dental treatment for the repair of damage resulting directly from an accidental injury to natural teeth. The treatment must be rendered within 12 months following the accident, and your coverage, as well as the plan, must still be in force. Payment will be made based on the amount for the least expensive procedure which will provide a professionally adequate result, up to a maximum of $5,000 per accident.
8.	Purchase of prostheses.
9.	Orthopaedic shoes which are attached to and form part of a brace. If the shoes are not part of a brace, 1 pair are eligible annually, up to 50% of the cost of the shoes or the cost of the adjustment, whichever is greater. The maximum payment is limited to $200 per person in any 12 consecutive calendar months.
10.	Charges for Intrauterine Devices when inserted by a physician.
11.	Orthotics, for the cost of one pair, up to a maximum of $300 per
person per calendar year.
12.	Prescribed support hose, to a maximum of $300 per person per
calendar year.
17
13.	Rental, or, at Manulife Financial’s option, purchase of a wheelchair, hospital bed, respirator/ventilator, braces or crutches.
14.	Charges for a convalescent care facility when admitted immediately following a minimum of 3 consecutive days of hospital confinement. A claimant may be covered for up to 120 days per disability at a daily maximum benefit equal to the charge for semi-private accommodation. Confinement must be for the continued care of the same condition for which the claimant was hospitalized.
15.	Hospital charges incurred as an out-patient for necessary medical or surgical treatment (excluding physicians' fees, and special nurses' fees).
16.	Professional services of a physician (where this coverage is permitted by law).
17.	Hearing aids, up to $500 per person in any 3 consecutive calendar years.
Extra Care
18.	Services of a Christian Science healer authorized as such on the register maintained and published by The First Church of Christ, Scientist, Boston, Massachusetts, U.S.A. The maximum benefit payable is $500 per person per calendar year.
Vision Care
19.	Frames, lenses and the fitting of prescription glasses, including contact lenses, up to an overall maximum of $150 per person in any 24 consecutive calendar months.
20.	Contact lenses prescribed for severe corneal astigmatism, severe corneal scarfing, keratoconus or aphakia, provided vision can be improved to at least the 20/40 level by contact lenses (but cannot be improved to that level by regular glasses). Payment will be made up to $200 per person in any 24 consecutive calendar months.
Vision Care expenses are eligible when recommended by a physician
(including an ophthalmologist) or an optometrist.
Referral Treatment
(Inside Canada Only)
21.	Hospital and physicians' charges, as outlined on the following page, for medically necessary treatment provided outside the claimant's province of residence, on the referral of a physician located in the claimant's province of residence. Such expenses will be eligible provided there is no treatment for the condition offered in the claimant's province of residence, and provided the government plan of insurance for the claimant's province of residence pays a portion of the charges.
18
a)	In-patient hospital charges for the following:
i)	the difference between the room and board benefit payable by the provincial hospital plan and the actual cost of ward
accommodation, and
ii)	medically necessary hospital services and supplies furnished during hospital confinement.
b)	Hospital charges for medical and surgical treatment incurred by a person on an out-patient basis.
c)	Physicians' charges for professional services.
A specialized or customized treatment shall not be considered an
eligible expense where a general treatment is available in the claimant's province of residence.
Outside Canada Coverage
In the event of an emergency which occurs while a claimant is travelling, vacationing or otherwise temporarily residing outside Canada, the following items will be considered as eligible expenses:
22.	In-patient hospital charges for the following:
a)	the difference between the room and board benefit payable by the provincial hospital plan and the actual cost of ward
accommodation, and
b)	medically necessary hospital services and supplies furnished during hospital confinement.
23.	Hospital charges for medical and surgical treatment incurred by a person on an out-patient basis.
24.	Physicians' charges for professional services.
In addition, expenses incurred outside Canada (for both emergency and non-emergency treatment) will be considered for reimbursement in the same manner as those incurred in Canada as described under ELIGIBLE EXPENSES for the following items: •
•	Drugs
•	Medical Transportation Services
•	Medical Supplies and Services
•	Dental Services
•	Professional Services (other than physicians' services)
•	Hearing Aids
•	Vision Cafe
•	Extra Cafe
19
MAXIMUM AMOUNT
All Health expenses incurred inside and outside Canada are subject to an overall lifetime maximum of $1,000,000 per person.
DENTAL BENEFIT
On behalf of each covered individual in your family, the Dental Benefit will reimburse you for dental expenses in excess of the deductible, based on the percentage indicated in your Schedule of Benefits.
DEDUCTIBLE
The $25 individual deductible* is applied once each calendar year to the eligible expenses incurred during that year. However, the maximum deductible per family per year is $50 with no one member contributing more than $25.
* “Deductible” means the amount of out-of-pocket expenses for which you are responsible, prior to consideration of payment of benefits.
MAXIMUM BENEFIT
The maximum amount payable per individual for Basic and Major Services combined is shown in your Schedule of Benefits.
TREATMENT PLAN
In order for you and your dentist to learn in advance how much Manulife Financial will pay and how much you will have to pay, it is recommended that a Treatment Plan be filed with Manulife Financial when the total cost of the proposed dental work is expected to exceed $500. This Treatment Plan identifies coverage and limitations for specific services. It also clarifies deductibles, specific limits and the Dental Fee Guide allowance, before dental treatment commences. The Treatment Plan is not intended to limit you in your choice of dentist; to tell you or your dentist what treatment should be performed; or to tell the dentist what fee to charge, nor to guarantee reimbursement after coverage ceases.
A Treatment Plan is a plan of dental treatment (including x-rays if required) showing the patient’s dental needs, a written description of the proposed treatment necessary in the professional judgement of the dentist, and the cost of the proposed treatment.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
Eligible expenses are those which are recommended as necessary by a physician or dentist, and are not in excess of the suggested fee for General Practitioners in the current Dental Fee Guide or the minimum fee specified in the current Denturist Fee Guide, of your province of residence.
20
Dental treatments are considered eligible if performed by a dentist or denturist who practices within the scope of his license.
There are several dental procedures which are covered by Provincial Health Plans up to certain maximums. If the dentist or dental surgeon chooses to charge more than the amount payable by the Provincial Plan, legislation in some provinces does not permit the excess charges to be eligible under this Plan.
Situations may arise where alternate methods of treatment may be available. It is solely up to you and your dentist to decide which method will be used. As the basis for determining its liability, Manulife Financial reserves the right to use the least expensive method of treatment, that will provide a professionally adequate result.
Only those treatments listed are eligible.
Basic Services
1.	The following services will be eligible for payment once every 9 months:
a)	Oral examinations.
b)	Prophylaxis (light cleaning and polishing of teeth)
c)	Topical fluoride treatment.
d)	Preventive recall packages.
e)	Bite-wing x-rays.
f)	Oral hygiene instruction.
2.	Full mouth series of x-rays, once every 24 months.
3.	Simple alveolectomy (incision into tooth socket) at time of tooth extraction.
4.	Surgical extractions, including extractions of impacted teeth, vestibuloplasty.
5.	Surgical removal of tumours, cysts, neoplasms, plus the incision and drainage of an abscess.
6.	Amalgam, silicate, acrylic and composite fillings.
7.	Provision of space maintainers for missing primary teeth, and provision of habit breaking appliances.
8.	Diagnostic x-ray and laboratory procedures required in relation to dental surgery.
9.	General anaesthetic or conscious sedation.
21
10.	Consultation required by the attending dentist.
11.	Relining, rebasing or the repair of an existing denture, once every 3 years.
12.	Endodontic Treatment (i.e. The treatment of diseases of the dental pulp including root canal therapy.)
13.	Periodontic Treatment (i.e. The treatment of the tissues and bones supporting the teeth including surgery, provisional splinting, acute infections, occlusal equilibration, not exceeding 4 units of time per calendar year, and periodontal scaling/root planing, not exceeding 8 units of time per calendar year.)
However, procedures for guided tissue regeneration are considered eligible only if performed in conjunction with the following periodontal surgical procedures: Flap approach or Osseous grafts - autografts or allografts, provided natural teeth are involved.
14.	Surgical services for gingival curettage, gingivoplasty and gingivectomy.
15.	Special periodontal appliances.
Major Services
1.	The creation of an initial denture if natural teeth are extracted while
covered under this Plan.
2.	The replacement of an existing denture, only under one of the following circumstances:
a)	If necessitated by the extraction of additional natural teeth while
covered under this Plan.
b)	If the existing denture is at least 5 years old and cannot be made
serviceable.
c)	If the existing denture is temporary and is replaced with a
permanent denture within 12 months of the installation of the
temporary appliance.
EXPENSES NOT COVERED (Health Care)
No payment will be made for expenses resulting from:
1 , Self-inflicted injuries or illness while sane or insane.
2. Any injury or illness for which the covered person is entitled to indemnity or compensation under any workers’ compensation act.
22
3.	Charges levied by a physician or dentist for time spent travelling, broken appointments, transportation costs, room rental charges or for advice given by telephone or other means of telecommunication.
4.	Cosmetic surgery of treatment (when so classified by Manulife Financial) unless such surgery or treatment is for accidental injuries and commenced within 90 days of an accident.
5.	Injury resulting directly or indirectly from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country or participation in a riot.
6.	Services, treatments or supplies, eligible under this Plan and payable under any government plan, whether or not the claimant is covered under such a plan. Manulife Financial will only consider that amount of an eligible expense which is over and above the amount that would be payable by the government plan.
In the event that a government plan of insurance discontinues of reduces payment for any services, treatments or supplies formerly covered in full or in part by such plan, this Plan will not automatically assume coverage of the charges for such treatments, services or supplies, but will reserve the right to determine, at the time of the change, whether expenses will be considered eligible.
7.	Examinations required for the use of a third party.
8.	Travel for health reasons.
9.	Dental treatment received from a dental of medical department maintained by an employer, an association, or a labour union.
10.	The replacement of an existing dental appliance which has been lost, mislaid or stolen.
11.	Dental services and supplies rendered for full-mouth reconstruction, for a vertical dimension correction, or for a correction to temporomandibular joint dysfunction.
12.	Any charges for services, treatment or supplies for which there would be no charge except for the existence of coverage
13.	Expenses incurred outside Canada for hospital charges for ward accommodation, hospital services or supplies furnished during hospital confinement, or physicians’ services, except as specified for treatment {#22, #23 & #24 under ELIGIBLE EXPENSES for the Major Medical Benefit). Such expenses incurred outside Canada on an elective basis, or on the referral of a physician located in Canada are not payable.
14.	Drugs, sera, injectable and supplies which are not approved by Health and Welfare-Canada (Food and Drugs) or are experimental or limited in use whether or not so approved.
23
15.	Experimental medical procedures or treatment methods not approved by the Provincial Medical Association or the appropriate medical specialty society.
16.	Orthodontic treatment, extensive restorative dentistry and fixed prosthetic devices.
17.	Nicotine substitutes.
18.	Services or supplies for implantology .
19.	Norplant contraceptive implants.
20.	Weight loss drugs.
24
CLAIM PROCEDURES
LIFE AND ACCIDENTAL DEATH COVERAGE
If you should die, your employer will provide the necessary claim form. Proof of death should be submitted as soon as reasonably possible.
ACCIDENTAL DISMEMBERMENT BENEFIT
Your employer will provide the necessary claim forms. Proof of claim should be submitted within 90 days of the following events:
For Specified Losses - the date of loss.
For Reimbursement Expenses - the date the expense was incurred. Non-duplication of Expenses
In the event that you are also covered under any other benefit, policy or plan providing similar coverage issued to your employer (except Accidental Death & Dismemberment), claims may be made under both plans. However, the total reimbursement received should not exceed the amount of expenses actually incurred. Claims should first be submitted under such other benefit, policy or plan and any portion of the expenses remaining unpaid will then be considered under this plan.
DISABILITY INCOME
Claim forms are available from your employer. You must provide certain information and your doctor must complete the Attending Physician's statement. Once the forms are completed:
a)	For Weekly Indemnity — it should be sent to your employer who will complete their portion, validate it, and forward it to Manulife Financial. Claims must be submitted within 90 days of the commencement of total disability.
b)	For Long Term Disability — it should be sent to your employer who will complete their portion and forward it to Manulife Financial. Claims must be submitted no later than 6 months following the qualifying period.
HEALTH CARE
Once the deductible (where applicable) is satisfied, you may submit claims at any time. However, in order to minimize administrative costs, we strongly recommend that you accumulate receipts for a series of treatments.
25
If expenses are incurred due to hospital confinement, a claim form should be completed by the hospital and yourself. When completed, this claim form should be submitted to Manulife Financial.
If Major Medical expenses other than hospital charges are incurred, obtain a claim form from your employer. Complete the form and return it, along with any original receipts to Manulife Financial.
In order to be eligible for payment, health claims must be submitted by the end of the calendar year following the year in which the expense was incurred.
NOTE: For all Health Care Benefits, original receipts in support of claims will not be returned (except for residents of B.C.), but will be retained by Manulife Financial.
If Dental expenses are incurred, obtain a claim form from your employer; have your dentist complete the form; complete your portion of the form, and forward it to Manulife Financial. Written proof of claim must be given to Manulife Financial by the end of the calendar year following the year in which the expense was incurred,
For all Health Care Benefits, when your coverage terminates for any reason other than termination of the contract, written proof of claim must be given to Manulife Financial within 90 days of the date of termination of coverage. No claims will be paid by Manulife Financial after the termination date of the contract.
CO-ORDINATION OF BENEFITS
There are established guidelines regarding the Order of Benefit Determination, and generally, there is a Co-ordination of Benefits provision included in the health and dental contracts which allows you, your spouse and children to submit claims under both plans. If a plan does not have such a provision, this plan must pay first for all members of the family. However, total reimbursement may not exceed the actual expenses incurred.
When both plans include the provision, expenses should be submitted to the plan that covers the person as an employee first. For your children, expenses should first be submitted to the plan of the spouse whose birthday falls first in the year. Any amount not paid, may then be submitted to the other spouse's plan.
When submitting claims under the second plan include any information and payment details provided by the first plan.
26
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
Coverage for you and your dependents will cease on the earliest of the following events:
1.	Termination of your employment.
2.	If you should die. However, Hospital, Major Medical and Dental coverage for your dependents is extended for a maximum of 12 months.
3.	If you enter the armed forces on a full-time basis.
4.	Termination of the Plan of coverage on the Group, Division, of Class to which you belong.
5.	At the end of the month in which you retire.
6.	On the date you reach age 65 less the qualifying period for Long Term Disability.
7.	On the date you reach age 65 for all other benefits.
CONVERSION OPTION
Life Benefit
If your individual coverage terminates or reduces, but group coverage continues, you may convert your Group Life coverage to an individual life contract. This amount must be equal to or less than your Group Life amount, subject to an overall maximum of $200,000. The individual life contract will be issued without proof of satisfactory health provided the completed application form, along with the necessary premium, is mailed to Manulife Financial within 31 days of the date of termination.
The types of contracts available for conversion are:
1.	Term Insurance for a 1 year period which, before the year has passed, may be converted (without evidence of insurability) to any of the policies described in points 2 or 3 below.
2.	Non-convertible Term Insurance for coverage up to age 65.
3.	Any regular plan of life insurance.
The conversion policy will not include disability, double indemnity, dismemberment or accidental death provisions.
If you die during the 31 day period in which you are eligible to make application for conversion, the amount of Group Life coverage available for this purpose will be payable, whether or not you applied for conversion.
27
Certain conversion rights are also available on contract termination. Details on conversions may be obtained from your Employer or the Group Product Support and Services Department at Manulife Financial, Toronto.
Accidental Death and Dismemberment
If your coverage terminates, but group coverage continues, you may convert your Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage to an individual A.D.& D. contract. This amount must be equal to or less than your principal amount, subject to a maximum of $200,000. The individual contract will be issued without proof of satisfactory health provided the completed application form, along with the necessary premium, is submitted to Manulife Financial within 31 days of the date of termination.
The individual contract will be the type issued by Manulife Financial under the A.D.& D. conversion plan which is available at that time, providing a benefit for Specified Loss only, and will not include dependent coverage, disability or expense reimbursement benefits.
If you suffer a loss during the 31 day period in which you are eligible to make application for conversion, the appropriate benefit for such loss, (calculated as a percentage of the principal amount available for conversion), will be payable whether or not you applied for conversion, provided no claim for such loss has been paid under the individual contract.
EXTENSION OF BENEFITS Disability Income
If you are totally disabled on the date of termination of coverage for any reason, and such disability continues uninterrupted, you will be eligible to receive Weekly Indemnity Benefits for such disability, until the date total disability ceases, or the date on which the maximum Weekly Indemnity Benefit is received, whichever is earlier.
Long Term Disability benefits will extend beyond your termination date, provided you became disabled while you were still covered subject to the Maximum Benefit Period. Benefits will continue to be paid according to the contract provisions, regardless of the subsequent termination of the Group Plan. Manulife Financial reserves the right to require that while you are in receipt of L.T.D. income, you furnish proof of the continuance of total disability, and submit to an examination by Manulife Financial’s medical advisors when requested.
Health Care
If you are totally disabled when your Hospital and Major Medical Benefits terminate, benefits for such disability will be payable, as long as you remain disabled, up to a maximum period of:
1.90 days after termination for Hospital Benefits.
28
2. 365 days after termination for Major Medical Benefits.
If one of your covered dependents is hospitalized when your coverage terminates, then benefits will be payable in the same manner as your own, or until your dependent is discharged from the hospital, whichever is earlier.
Extension of Hospital and Major Medical benefits will cease if the Plan
should terminate.
In most cases no Dental benefits are payable for expenses incurred after the date your coverage terminates, even if a Treatment Plan has been filed and benefits have been determined by Manulife Financial prior to the date your coverage terminates. However, benefits are payable under the following circumstances:
1.	Where an impression for a denture had been taken prior to the date your coverage terminated and the denture is installed after the coverage terminates, Dental expenses in connection with this procedure, and incurred within 30 days after the termination of coverage are eligible.
2.	If your coverage terminates due to your death, dental expenses incurred on behalf of your dependents will be eligible for payment as outlined under the DEPENDENT COVERAGE EXTENSION section below.
DEPENDENT COVERAGE EXTENSION
Dependent coverage for Hospital, Major Medical and Dental will extend for a maximum of 12 months after your death. However, coverage will cease on the remarriage of your spouse.
29
OTHER INFORMATION
DEFINITIONS
“Convalescent care facility” means a licensed, extended hospital care facility or institution regularly engaged in the care of sick persons during the convalescent stage of an illness or injury. Such institution must provide 24 hour nursing service and regular medical supervision. The term convalescent care facility as used in this booklet shall not include a home for the aged, health spa or hotel, an establishment providing custodial care or an institution for the care and treatment of alcoholism or drug addiction, tuberculosis or mental illness.
“Convalescent care services and supplies” means room and board, routine nursing care and such other services and supplies necessary to the health of patients as are generally provided by convalescent care facilities. Convalescent care services and supplies shall not include the services of a private duty nurse or other private duty attendant nor any service or supply which would not be provided to an inpatient of a hospital.
“Earnings” are defined as follows:
1.	For Weekly Indemnity, your gross earnings including regular overtime and regular bonus.
2.	For all other benefits, your gross earnings excluding bonus, overtime, incentive pay and automobile allowance.
“Remarriage” is either of the following arrangements that a surviving spouse enters into subsequent to your death:
1.	A marriage through an ecclesiastical or civil ceremony.
2.	A common-law marriage in which the surviving spouse, who although not legally married to the person, cohabits with such person in a husband and wife relationship which is recognized as such in the community in which they reside.
“Seniority” is as outlined in the collective agreement between FOAMEX Canada Inc. and United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America (URW), Local 664.
“Totally disabled” except for Disability Income, means you are unable to work and earn an income due to sickness or bodily injury that leaves you wholly and continuously disabled.
GL 37392, GH 37393,
ASO 84392 and ASO 84393	MLIC/500/11 /94
30