LABOUR AGREEMENT
Between
LOUISIANA-PACIFIC CORP. CANADA LIMITED
ACTON PLANT And
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING, ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
(UNITED STEELWORKERS) (HEREINAFTER “THE UNITED STEELWORKERS”)
ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL 603L 2005 - 2008
CONTRACT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS......................................... 1
ARTICLE 2
VALIDITY OF CLAUSES........................................... 2
ARTICLE 3
COMPANY RECOGNITION........................................... 2
ARTICLE 4
UNION RECOGNITION& JURISDICTION........................... 2
ARTICLE 5
PROBATIONARY PERIOD....................................... 4
ARTICLE 6
CONTRACTS................................................. 4
ARTICLE 7 OBLIGATIONS...................................... 4
ARTICLE 8
HOURS OF WORK.............................................. 7
ARTICLE 9
OVERTIME RATES & PREMIUM COMPENSATION...................... 8
ARTICLE 10
VACATIONS................................................. 11
ARTICLE 11
RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS....................................... 13
ARTICLE 12
CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES................................. 14
ARTICLE 13
SENIORITY................................................... 15
ARTICLE 14
PROMOTIONS................................................ 16
ARTICLE 15
LAY-OFFS.................................................. 17
ARTICLE 16
JOB POSTING............................................... 17
ARTICLE 17
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE..................................... 19
ARTICLE 18
UNION COMMITTEE......................................... 21
ARTICLE 19
HEALTH AND SAFETY........................................ 22
ARTICLE 20
NOTICE BOARDS............................................ 23
ARTICLE 21
LEAVE OF ABSENCE........................................ 23
ARTICLE 22
DURATION OF AGREEMENT.................................... 24
APPENDIX " A
STANDARD HOURLY WAGE RATES.............................. 25
APPENDIX “B”
SUMMARY OF BENEFITS...................................... 27
APPENDIX “C”
SEVERANCE LANGUAGE.................................... 28
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#!............................. 29
ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS
1.01	COMPANY - Louisiana-Pacific Canada, Ltd. with respect only to its plants located at
Halton Hills (Acton), Ontario.
1.02	UNION - United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers) (Hereinafter "The United Steelworkers”) on behalf of its'
Local 603-L
1.03	EMPLOYEE(S) - Any person who is actively at work for the Company whose job places him within the bargaining unit as defined (See Section 4.02) and who has completed the probationary period (See Section 5.01). Status as an employee shall be lost for anyone of the following reasons:
a)	If an employee quits.
b)	If an employee is discharged for just cause.
c)	If an employee is laid off (See article 15).
d)	If an employee fails to report to work following termination of an authorized leave of absence, unless granted further leave of absence by the Company or unless employee can give a valid and acceptable reason for not reporting on the specified day. If a former employee is rehired within 9 months of his loss of status, he will be reinstated as an employee immediately without a probationary period.
1.04	ABILITY - The word "ability" wherever used in this Agreement means knowledge, skill, training and efficiency as determined by the Company, without additional training, for purposes of said determination.
1.05	SENIORITY - The period of time during which the employee has been actively employed in the plant without any of the interruptions, which cause loss of seniority as, specified in Section 13.04.
1.06	"ABILITY AND SENIORITY" and/or "SENIORITY AND ABILITY" have the same meaning when used in this Agreement.
1
ARTICLE 2 VALIDITY OF CLAUSES
2.01
3.01
4.01
4.02
4.03
4.04
Any provision of this Agreement, which may be or may become in conflict with present or future provisions of Federal or Provincial laws, or orders-in Council by same, becomes by that fact null and void without affecting the validity of the remainder of the present Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 COMPANY RECOGNITION
The Union recognizes that the Company retains all the customary and normal functions of Management except as they are expressly restricted by the terms of the Agreement. This Agreement supersedes and cancels all prior agreements, understandings, and practices, whether verbal or written, express or implied and constitutes the entire agreement between the parties.
ARTICLE 4 UNION RECOGNITION & JURISDICTION
(a)	The Company recognizes the Union for the purposes of collective bargaining as the sole bargaining agency, with respect to all articles included in this Agreement, for all of its employees except those excluded from the bargaining unit (Section 4.02) during the currency of this Agreement.
(b)	Where the masculine pronoun is used herein, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context so applies.
The present Agreement applies to all persons with employee status except:
(a)	Foreman and persons above the rank of foreman.
(b)	Office staff.
(c)	Sales staff.
(d)	Technology department.
Employees outside the bargaining unit will not perform work normally done by employees within the bargaining unit. However, this Agreement cannot be construed to prohibit them from doing work for purposes of instruction, experimentation or research or in the case of an emergency, to facilitate production, provided a lay-off of bargaining unit employees does not result.
Any employee who is a member of the Union in good standing shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his membership to the extent of paying membership dues. Any person hired as a new employee and any employee who is hereafter transferred into the Bargaining Unit, shall make application for membership in the Union on the date of employment or transfer and shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues.
2
4.05
a)	The Company agrees that all employees shall become and remain members of the Union as a condition of their continued employment.
b)	The Company shall deduct Union dues including, where applicable, initiation fees and assessments, on a bi-weekly basis, from the wages of each employee covered by this agreement. The amount of dues shall be calculated in accordance with the Union’s Constitution.
c)	All dues, initiation fees and assessments shall be remitted to the Union forthwith and in any event no later than 15 days following the last day of the month in which the remittance was deducted. The remittance shall be sent to the International Secretary Treasurer of the United Steelworkers, AFL-CIO-CLC, P.O. Box 13083 Postal Station ‘A’, Toronto, Ontario M5W 1V7 in such form as shall be directed by the Union to the Company along with a completed Dues Remittance Form R-115. A copy of the Dues Remittance FormR-115 will also be sent to the Union office designated by the Area Co-ordinator.
d)	The remittance and the R-115 form shall be accompanied by a statement containing the following information:
i) A list of names of all employees from whom dues were deducted and the amount of dues deducted;
jj) A list of the names of all employees from whom no deductions have been made and reason;
iii) This information shall be sent to both Union addresses identified in Article 4.05 c) in such form as shall be directed by the Union and Company.
e)	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless against all claims or other forms of liability that may arise out of any actions taken by the Company in compliance with this Article.
f)	The Company, when preparing T-4 slips for the employees, will enter the amount of Union dues paid to the employee during the previous year.
4.06	If any employee works less than 40 hours in any month he shall not be required to pay Union dues for that month unless this policy is changed by the constitution of the United Steelworkers.
3
ARTICLE 5 PROBATIONARY PERIOD
5.01	All employees shall be on probation for the first 960 normal working hours of their employment accumulated during a nine (9) month period. The exception to the above being maintenance department personnel who will be on probation for the first 1440 normal working hours of their employment accumulated during a nine (9) month period. Probationary employees will become eligible for benefits after the completion of 90 days of active employment.
5.02	The Company has the right to terminate an employee on probation without recourse on the part of the Union and any such termination cannot constitute a grievance provided that this right shall not be used for the purpose of discrimination against said employee under the Ontario Human Rights Code or for Union activity.
ARTICLE 6 CONTRACTS
6.01	The Union recognizes that this Agreement cannot be construed to affect
contracts or sub-contracts that the Company may award to have work done, nor limit the Company's right to make such contracts or sub-contracts. The Company will recall all laid off Bargaining Unit employees who have proven skills to perform the proposed contract work prior to using outside sources.
ARTICLE 7 OBLIGATIONS
7.01	The Union will not engage in Union activities during working hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without the permission of the Plant Manager or his representative.
7.02	The Union and the Company agree that there shall be no strikes, slowdowns or lockouts during the currency of this Agreement. The purpose of this provision is to prohibit any interruption of production of operations during the life of this Agreement. In the event activity prohibited by this section occurs during the life of this Agreement, the Company shall have the right to discipline or discharge any employee participating in any violation of this section, without recourse, except to establish the fact of the offense.
7.03	Should operations cease due to any cause whatsoever, the property of the Company will be maintained in operating condition by the continuance at work of up to seven (7) employees as required. It is also agreed that at no time will the Union exercise either directly or indirectly interference or coercion with a view to preventing employees of the Company who are not covered by this Labour Agreement from entering Company property.
4
7.04
7.05
7.06
7.07
7.08
7.09
(a)	When a shift begins, each employee is required to be at his place. at the end of the shift, no employee is to leave his place until his replacement has reported to take on the responsibility of the job unless said employee can provide an acceptable reason prior to leaving as to why he cannot remain on the job until his replacement arrives. In this event, all machines will be maintained on a productive basis by the crew on hand. If an employee is required to remain at his place, the foreman will obtain a relief as soon as possible.
(b)	The Company will pay, upon submission of a receipt, for transportation, when necessary, for employees who are required to remain on duty, pending the arrival of their replacements, to a maximum of $15.00 for employees living outside the municipality of Acton and $5.00 for employees living in the municipality of Acton.
Employees covered by this Agreement shall be provided life, disability, and medical benefits as summarized in Appendix "B".
Written warning notices and suspensions which are to become part of the employee's record shall be presented to the employee in the presence of the steward or chief steward whenever possible. In the event that neither of the above is available a member of the bargaining unit shall be present.
With the exception of discipline resulting from misconduct involving harassment or discrimination or safety, if there is a period of 2 years or more in which the employee has no discipline (discipline-free period), any discipline which occurred before the discipline-free period will not be considered as a basis for future disciplinary action against the employee. No disciplinary actions will be taken after fourteen (14) working days from the date the Company became aware of the infraction.
The Company will advise the union should it become necessary to extend this period.
When an employee is discharged the Company agrees to notify him that he may see his Union Steward or an officer of the Union prior to his leaving the premises if he so requests. It is understood that once the employee leaves the premises he may not return without permission from the Company.
It is agreed that Part XIV, Pregnancy and Parental Leave, of the Employment Standards Act, forms part of this Agreement.
The Company shall comply with the law in dealing with an employee incapacitated either by age, sickness or injury, and no longer capable of performing the employee's regular job, as certified by a doctor approved by the Company.
5
7.10	Only the operator shall change the running condition of any production line, but, Maintenance personnel may be required from time to time, in conjunction with the Operator, to change the settings and/or running condition of any production extruder.
7.11	Employees will have the option of contributing to the Union Humanity Fund.
7.12	Company Safety Shoe Policy: The Company may pay for Safety Shoe purchase according to the following schedule:
Maintenance Personnel-Two (2) pair per year on an as needed basis. $100.00/pair
All Other Personnel - One (1) pair per year $100.00/pair
7.13	The Company will provide pension benefits as set forth in the ABT CANADA LIMITED PENSION PLAN, JANUARY, 1996, which is fully incorporated herein by reference. The plan, which will include employee and Company contributions, is effective April 1, 1997. Company contributions may be invested in the same investment options as the employee contributions.
7.14	Statement of Non-Discrimination, Sexual Harassment and Safety
(a)	Non-Discrimination
The Company shall not permit and the Union shall not condone discrimination against any employee based on membership in any protected group. The Company shall not permit and the Union shall not condone any form of harassment, joking remarks or other abusive conduct directed at employees because of membership in any protected group.
(b)	Unsafe Conduct
The Company shall not permit and the Union shall not condone unsafe conduct by any employee.
(c)	Sexual Harassment
The Company shall not permit and the Union shall not condone sexual harassment because it is intimidating, an abuse of power and unlawful. Sexual harassment is defined as unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature. Sexual harassment can take the forms of:
i) Sexual conduct that interferes with another person's work
performance or creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment.
jj) Personnel decisions (e.g. promotions, raises, scheduling) made by a supervisor or boss based on the employee's submission to or rejection of sexual advances.
iii) Submission to a sexual advance used as a condition of keeping or getting a job, whether expressed in explicit or implicit terms.
6
(d)	Reporting Procedure
Any employee who feels subject to discrimination or harassment or unsafe conduct should immediately report it to any of the following individuals: the immediate supervisor, the Plant Manager or an officer of the Company, or the Plant Human Resources Manager. The employee may also report any alleged discrimination or harassment or unsafe conduct to their Union representative. Such reports will be investigated promptly. If the report has merit, disciplinary action will be taken against the offender. Depending on the severity of the misconduct, the disciplinary action could range from a warning to termination.
ARTICLE 8 HOURS OF WORK
8.01	(a) Nothing contained in this Agreement in general or in this article in
particular, can be construed to indicate that the Company guarantees hours of work per day or days of work per week.
(b)	Forty (40) hours per calendar week are the normal hours of work for all employees either on a rotating or non-rotating basis as per established schedule.
8.02	The Company will advise the President or Vice-president of the Union of changes in hours of work and shifts when possible 72 hours but not less than 48 hours before making them effective.
8.03	(a) All rotating shift employees will be allowed a lunch period not in
excess of 20 minutes which will be scheduled so as to maintain production and at a time mutually convenient to the employee and the Company. No employee will be required to work longer than five (5) consecutive hours without an eating period.
(b) All 12-hour shift employees will be allowed 2 meal periods not in excess of 20 minutes each.
8.04	When possible, employees from services or maintenance who are scheduled to work on weekends or vacation shutdown will be allowed a lunch period not in excess of twenty (20) minutes which will be scheduled at a time mutually convenient to the employee and the Company. No employee will be required to work longer than five (5) consecutive hours without an eating period.

ARTICLE 9 OVERTIME RATES & PREMIUM COMPENSATION
9.01	(a) Overtime rates shall be paid only to employees who are working
additional hours at the request of the Company and shall not be paid for such extra hours which have been exchanged at the request of employees for their own convenience.
(b)	Overtime work shall be divided as equitably as possible among all employees capable of petforming the work at the rate the job entails, starting first with the employee currently performing the job.
(c)	An employee may be excused from working overtime provided another qualified employee is available to do the work required.
(d)	There will be no pyramiding of overtime pay, or any other add-on or premium rate of pay.
9.02	(a)	Employees will be paid overtime compensation for all work
performed in excess of forty (40) hours in a calendar week on the basis of one and one-half times their classified rate.
(b)	Regular hours worked during a regularly scheduled week will be paid at the classified rate.
(c)	For employees on the twelve (12) hour shift, all hours worked in excess of forty-four (44) hours, or the regularly scheduled work week, if the regularly scheduled work week is less than forty-four (44) hours, will be paid at one and one-half times the classified rate.
(d)	Employees working on a five (5) day schedule or on non-rotating shifts will be paid overtime compensation at two (2) times their classified rate of pay when they are requested to work between midnight Saturday and midnight Sunday, provided the employee has worked at least forty (40) hours during the preceding five (5) work days in the work week.
(e)	An employee who is required to work weekend overtime and who returns to work before eight (8) hours off will receive two (2) hours of additional pay at their classified rate provided the employee completes both shifts.
9.03	It is agreed that when the Company requires a rotating shift employee to change his shift at other than the scheduled rotation time, with less than 16 hours elapsed time between his normal quitting time, and the beginning of his new schedule he will be paid time and one-half his classified rate for all hours worked on the first shift of the new schedule.
8
9.04	It is agreed that an allowance of $10.00 will be given to each employee, when called in to work for non scheduled overtime, and who lives over ten (1O) miles from the plant.
9.05	Employees working on the second shift will be paid the following shift premium effective with the first payroll period on or after:
November2, 2001 $0.40/hour
9.06	Employees working on the third shift will be paid the following shift premium effective with the first payroll period on or after:
November2, 2001 $0.61/hour
Twelve (12) hour shift employees working on the night shift will be paid the following shift premium:
November2, 2001 $.061/hour
9.07	All employees reporting for scheduled work unless a contrary order from the foreman has been given, will receive five (5) hours pay at his classified rate, provided that the causes for no work being available are within the Company's control. It is understood that the employee may be supplied with alternate work provided the employee has no job related limitations and is qualified to perform the work that is provided.
9.08	It is agreed that the Company has the right to assign or transfer employees as needed. When an employee is assigned to work in a job paying a higher rate than his own, he shall be paid the higher rate while occupying the said higher rated job.
9.09	It is agreed that when an employee is assigned at the convenience of the Company, to work in a lower rated job, he will be paid his normal classified rate, except when transferred due to reduction of the work force or inability to perform the work.
An Operator ‘B’ intrainingto become an Operator 'Awill not be transferred unless no other qualified employee, on the same shift, is available.
9.10	In the event an employee is displaced from his regularjob as a result of automation, he will be transferred in accordance with Article 15.
9.11	In the event of a death of a member of an employee's family, the Company will grant, upon request a leave of absence for a reasonable time for the purpose of making funeral arrangements or attending the funeral and will pay for such lost time as follows:
(a)	Spouse, common-law spouse, child or stepchild, Father, mother, parent-in-law, brother, sister, grandchild or grandparent, up to a maximum of four (4) days.
9
Brothers and sisters of the spouse or common-law spouse, the day of the funeral.
These allowances will only be granted where circumstances require the employee's absence from work.
(d)	For employees on the twelve (12) hour shift where it reads maximum
4 days, payment will be made for 48 hours. Where it reads maximum 1 day, payment will be made for 12 hours pay.
9.12	An employee who is required to serve on a jury, or who is subpoenaed as a witness, shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and his current hourly rate for the time lost from his regularly scheduled work shift by reason of such service subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Employees must notify their supervisor within twenty-four (24) hours after
receipt of notice of selection for jury duty or when subpoenaed as a witness.
(b)	Any employee called for jury duty or, subpoenaed as a witness, and who is temporarily excused from attendance at court must report for work if four (4) hours or more of time remains to be worked in his shift. For employees on 12-hour shift, where it reads four (4), change to six (6).
(c)	Employees selected for jury duty who are on other than the day shift shall be assigned to the day shift for those days they are required to serve as jurors.
In order to be eligible for such payments, the employees must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received.
9.13	The Company agrees to give a meal allowance of $6.00 to employees who are required to work two (2) hours past their normal quitting time, and to employees called in at least two (2) hours prior to their normal starting time, unless they are given time off to go home for a meal, or were notified on the previous day that such overtime or call in was scheduled.
9.14	When a paid holiday recognized by this Agreement occurs on an employee's scheduled work day during the employee's scheduled work week the number of paid holiday hours for that holiday shall be considered as hours worked for purposes of computing overtime on a weekly basis. When an employee is approved for time off from a scheduled work day, during a scheduled work week, the number of paid hours for that day, or if unpaid, the number of hours missed from work, shall be considered as hours worked for purposes of computing overtime on a weekly basis.
10
9.15	When an employee on a 7 day schedule is assigned at the Company's convenience onto a job in the 5 day operation paying overtime to 5 day employees performing the same job, he shall be paid the applicable overtime premium pertaining to the said 5 day schedule employees. His classified rate as shown in Appendix A will apply.
ARTICLE 10 VACATIONS
10.01	The vacation period is from January 1 st through December 31 st.
10.02	Employees are required to have vacation requests submitted by April 1st. Any unscheduled vacation requests submitted thereafter will be taken from the weeks available.
10.03	Employees must take their vacation time during the calendar year in which they become eligible for such vacation, and cannot carry over any such eligible vacation time unless otherwise required by law. Vacation periods cannot be accumulated.
10.04	After the posting of the vacation schedule no change will be considered unless the request by the employee is made twenty-one (21) days in advance of the proposed new dates and then only if arrangements can be made with other employees
10.05	Additional time off requested will be treated as a requested leave of absence and will be granted by the Human Resource Manager only if satisfactory arrangements can be made with the employee's immediate supervisor and if granted will be without pay. All such requests will be submitted and replied to on the form provided.
10.06	Employees with the most plant seniority in the department concerned will be given first consideration in the allotment of time for vacations. The Department Head will arrange the times of vacation as is most convenient for the employees and the Company; the Company will consider that employees prefer vacations in July and August, but operations cannot be interfered with because of vacation preferences. Eligible employees who request more than two (2) consecutive week's vacation will be granted their requests provided the production will not be unduly affected.
10.07	When a paid recognized holiday falls within an employee's vacation it will be paid for in accordance with section 11.02, in addition to his vacation pay but extra time off will be allowed only if requested prior to employees proceeding on vacation and will be without pay. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
10.08	Employees will receive payment for vacation at the time vacation is taken.
11
10.09 (a) Length of vacation is established by the plant seniority of the employee concerned as of January 1 each calendaryear and will be granted as
follows:		
i)	Less than three years plant seniority	Two weeks
ii)	Three years or more plant seniority	Three weeks
iii)	Eight years or more plant seniority	Four weeks
iv)	Sixteen years or more plant seniority	Five weeks*
*Employees who, as of the effective date of this Agreement, are receiving more than 5 weeks vacation benefit will be red circled, and will not receive a reduction in vacation benefits.
Newly hired employees will become eligible for one vacation day for each full month they work as scheduled in the calendar year of their hire, including the month in which they are hired, provided they were hired on or before the 15th day of the month, up to a maximum often (10) vacation days.
One week = 40 hours of vacation entitlement, to start following days of rest.
10.1	O Vacation pay will be calculated as a percentage of the gross wages earned during the preceding calendar year (including vacation pay) as follows:
Two weeks	4%
Three weeks	6%
Four weeks	8%
Five weeks	10%
Vacation calculation will be paid as follows:
Total vacation pay owing will be divided by total vacation hours entitlement to arrive at an hourly rate of pay. The hourly rate of pay calculated will be used when employees take their vacation.
*Employees who, as of the effective date of this Agreement, are receiving vacation pay calculated on a percentage greater than 10% will be red circled, and will not receive a reduction in the percentage used to calculate vacation pay under this section.
12
10.11	Vacation pay for employees on separation from employment will be calculated on a percentage basis and will include pay for vacation not received and for vacation earned from January 1 of the current year to date of separation as follows:
Less than three years plant seniority	4%
*Three years or more plant seniority	6%
Eight years or more plant seniority	8%
Sixteen years or more plant seniority	10%**
*Provided reason for separation is a result of resignation, lay-off, termination, retirement or death.
* *Employees who, as of the effective date of this Agreement would be eligible for vacation pay to be calculated at a higher percentage rate, will be red circled, and will not suffer a reduction in the percentage rate used to calculate vacation pay under this section.
10.12	(a) In the event of a shutdown of the plant or a department, all employees,
unless otherwise notified, must take their vacations during this period. The Company shall not be unreasonable in providing advance notice of shutdown.
(b) The Company will post the employees vacation schedule not later than April 1st of the vacation year.
ARTICLE 11 RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
11.01	The Company shall post the holiday dates no later than April 1st.
11.02	The Company recognizes the following Holidays as holidays with pay and each employee shall receive eight (8) hours at his classified rate subject to the conditions outlined in Section 11. 03:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
2 Floaters, scheduled as approved by the Company
13
11.03	To be eligible for holiday pay as authorized in Section 11.02 above, the employee:
(a)	Must have completed his probationary period.
(b)	Each employee will receive a regular day's pay provided he has worked on the last scheduled working day prior to the holiday and the first scheduled working day after the holiday. This requirement shall not operate to deprive the employee of payment for the holidays if he is absent because of illness, the illness being certified by a doctor.
11.04	Employees who have worked on a recognized holiday may request an alternate day off without pay. Employees shall be entitled to postpone the taking of this day off with other such days, which the employee may then take off together without pay, at a time mutually convenient to the employee and the Company. Such requests will not unreasonably be denied. All accumulated days must be taken in the year of occurrence.
11.05	For 12 hour shift employees, unless otherwise required by law:
(a)	recognized holidays are from 8:00 a.m. of the day set to 8:00 a.m. of the following day;
(b)	employees not scheduled to work on the holiday will receive eight (8) hours holiday pay;
(c)	if the plant shuts down for a recognized holiday, employees normally scheduled to work (2 shifts) shall be paid 12 hours at their classified rate and those employees not scheduled to work (2 shifts) shall be paid 8 hours at their classified rate;
(d)	the 12 hour schedule will stop at the shutdown period (e.g. Christmas) and start up after completion of the shutdown period; and
(e)	recognized holidays occurring in the shutdown period will be paid at eight (8) hours classified rate. When working a recognized holiday, employees will be paid 12 hours at his classified rate subject to the conditions outlined in section 11.03.
11.06	Employees on leave of absence due to certified illness will be paid in accordance with the Benefits provided by the Temporary Disability Plan.
ARTICLE 12 CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES
12.01	A list of job classifications and rates is attached as Appendix "A" and forms part of this Agreement.
14
12.02	Probationary employees in classifications 11 and 12 with necessary qualifications will be paid up to $0.20 per hour less than the rates established by Appendix "A" for the jobs they are performing. All other probationary employees will be paid up to $0.55 per hour less than the rates established by Appendix "A" for the jobs they are performing.
12.03	If a job is substantially changed or a new job created the evaluation of such jobs will be made jointly by the Company and the Union within three months of the job being filled. The rate of pay negotiated shall be retroactive to the date of establishment of the changed or new job, will be incorporated in this Agreement, and will be binding upon both parties.
12.04	Learner- is any employee who is being trained for any position who has not had pertinent experience in the particularjob involved. In such cases, for Classifications 1 to 4, he will be paid $0.15 per hour less for three (3) months and for classifications 5 and above he will be paid $0.15 per hour less for the first three (3) months and $0.10 per hour less for the second three (3) months, than the job rate for which he is being trained for.
ARTICLE 13 SENIORITY
13.01	A person will not acquire seniority until he has completed his probationary period.
13.02	Upon completion of the probationary period, a person's seniority shall be
accumulated from his date of hiring.
13.03	Seniority shall be accumulated on a plant basis.
13.04	Seniority shall be lost for anyone of the following reasons:
a)	If an employee voluntarily quits, or is discharged for just cause.
b)	If an employee fails to report to work following the termination of an authorized leave of absence, unless granted further leave of absence by the Company, or unless the employee can give a valid reason, acceptable to the Company, which acceptance shall not be unreasonably withheld, for not reporting for work on the specified day.
c)	If an employee on lay-off fails to report for recall within five days of being notified by courier or registered mail to report.
If an employee with five (5) or less years of service is laid off for twelve (12)months or if an employee with more than five (5)years of service is laid off for twenty-four (24)months.
15
e)	When an employee attains sixty-five years of age or retirement date granted by the Company.
f)	If an employee is absent without notice three (3) or more consecutive days.
13.05	Any person whose seniority has been broken shall upon being rehired be considered a new employee, except as otherwise provided in 1.03(d).
13.06	For the purposes of this article and article 14, the plant will be considered as having the following departments:
Maintenance
Services
Production
ARTICLE 14 PROMOTIONS
14.01	a) Appointments to staff positions are not subject to this Agreement and an
employee so appointed shall be excluded from the coverage of this Agreement but will retain his seniority for nine (9) months after such appointment.
b)	A person returned by management to the bargaining unit within this nine (9) month period will be returned to his former job without loss of seniority.
c)	With respect to temporary assignments to staff positions outside the bargaining unit, made at the discretion of the Company, the employee shall continue to accumulate seniority. An employee so assigned will be paid $1.00 per hour minimum above his classified rate. The Company will inform the Union of the rate of pay. Upon termination of the temporary assignment the employee shall be returned to his former position.
14.02	Promotion means a transfer to a job classification, which carries a higher rate of pay or higher wage range.
14.03	Ability and seniority shall be the factors considered in determining all cases of promotions. Seniority shall be the determining factor in promotions if the ability of two or more employees is relatively equal.
14.04	An employee may return or be returned to his former job according to Section
16.06	(a).
16
ARTICLE 15 LAY-OFFS
15.01	Lay-off means displacement due to lack of work.
15.02	When it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees, probationary employees will be laid off and then after considering ability and seniority the following procedure shall be followed:
a)	Where the ability of two (2) or more employees is relatively equal, employees will be displaced from their job classification.
b)	The employee with the least seniority will be laid off. However, the employee may exercise his seniority and displace the employee who has the least seniority in a lower classification in the plant.
15.03	In the case of individual lay-off the Company will give a minimum of forty (40) working hours notice which includes the day of notification, in advance of the effective date, except when the lay-off is due to fire, storm, floods, power or major mechanical failures.
15.04	In the event that a lay-off affects employees in receipt of worker's compensation (W.S.I.B.) or on leave of absence, such employees will be notified by courier or registered mail that they have been laid off.
15.05	Following a lay-off: the hiring of former employees who still retain their seniority will be in the reverse order of their having been laid off: subject to their ability to do the work required.
15.06	Any Bargaining Committee member is not to be excluded from performing his or her duties pertaining to the Union by reason of lay-off: if the lay-off is less than ninety (90) consecutive working days and provided the person is not working elsewhere. The President of the Local Union shall have one (1) day more seniority than the most junior employee to be laid-off.
15.07	Employees displaced to a job with a lower rate of pay for less than six (6) months will revert to their former positions if conditions so demand.
ARTICLE 16 JOB POSTING
16.01	a) Job vacancies or newly created jobs that are within the bargaining unit and that will be of more than six (6) month's duration, will be posted immediately for six (6) calendar days on the notice board. Whenever the Company implements a shift change involving the creation of additional shifts, the Company will post job vacancies resulting from such shift change. Employees absent from work during the posting period will be required to notify the Company, in writing, of their interest in any job posting.
17
b)	This section shall not be applied for more than two subsequent moves required as a result of the selection of an applicant.
c)	Temporary vacancies occurring due to customer demand and/or vacation replacement of absent employees will not be posted. The Company may hire and use relief employees during the period April 1 through October 10, who shall not acquire or accumulate seniority, and no relief employees shall remain as a relief employee after October 10.
Should any of the relief employees be hired as a regular employee on a full time basis, the actual time worked as a relief employee shall be credited, if necessary, towards the completion of their probationary period. Relief employees will be laid off prior to probationary employees.
16.02	All applicants for the posted jobs, provided their applications are received by the Company within the stipulated six (6) calendar days, will be advised and the unsuccessful applicants informed why their applications were not accepted.
16.03	The Company has the right to fill any vacancy if no applications are received from qualified employees.
16.04	All jobs posted will state the job to be filled, a brief description of the job, the qualifications required and the rate of pay.
16.05	Ability and seniority shall be the factors considered in determining the most suitable applicant. Seniority shall be the determining factor in selection of the applicant if the ability of two or more employees is relatively equal.
Evaluations of Operator 'B’(s) to qualify for Operator‘A’will be conducted twice annually.
16.06 a)	If the job proves unsatisfactory to the selected applicant within thirty
(30) days, or if the applicant proves unsatisfactory to the Company within six (6) months, he may return or be returned to his original job without loss of any seniority. The employee may not apply to the same position during the next eighteen-(I8) months.
b)	Anyone else affected by (a) will be returned to his original job.
c)	Should the applicant return to his previous job, within thirty (30) days of posting, other applicants from the same posting may be considered and appointed.
16.07	Successful applicants on job postings shall be ineligible for a minimum of six (6) months to apply for open positions that are at the same or lower classification than their newly awarded position.
18
ARTICLE 17 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
17.01	Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to take away the right of any employee to discuss any of his personal grievances with a representative of the Company.
17.02	If any differences concerning the interpretation, application, operation, or any alleged violation of the express provisions of this Agreement arises or any questions as to whether any difference is arbitrable arises between the parties or persons bound by this Agreement or on whose behalf it was entered into, the representatives of the Company and of the Union shall meet and endeavour to resolve the difference in the following manner and sequence. Union grievance committee members will be paid straight time wages while in attendance at scheduled grievance meetings.
Step I Discussion shall take place between the grievor, who shall be accompanied by his steward and his immediate supervisor.
Step 2 Discussions between the grievor, his Union Steward, Chief Steward, his immediate supervisor, and the Human Resource Manager or their designees. The grievance at this stage shall be submitted in writing, signed by the grievor, and an executive of the Union within seven (7) calendar days of the date of the occurrence which gave rise to the grievance, and must state the matter at issue, the facts relied upon, including events, dates and persons involved, and precisely in what respect the Agreement has allegedly been violated or misinterpreted by reference to the specific clause or clauses relied upon. The notice shall also state the nature of relief or remedy sought. The Company shall issue a written reply at this step.
Step 3 Discussion between the Union Grievance Committee, Production Manager, Assistant Production Manager, the Human Resource Manager, and the Plant Manager, or their designees, shall be held within four (4) calendar days, excluding statutory holidays and the weekend days of Saturday and Sunday, of the step 2 written reply.
A representative of the United Steelworkers may attend. The grievor may attend on the invitation of either party.
Should a grievance be initiated by either the Company or the Union with respect to the application or interpretation of this Agreement, the procedure will start at this step.
The Plant Manager shall issue to the President of the Union a written reply to the formal written grievance within forty-eight (48) hours of the discussion held in Step 3.
For any of the above Steps, after the grievance has been initiated, the time element may be waived by mutual agreement of both parties. Agreement to waive must be in writing and signed by both parties.
19
17.03	a) The authority of the Arbitrator is limited to the interpretation of the express provisions of this Agreement and the arbitrator cannot amend, delete, or add any clause to the express Agreement as signed, or substitute the Arbitrator's judgment for that of the Company, or overrule a decision of the Company unless the Company's judgment or decision is contrary to the express provisions of this Agreement. The Union acknowledges that the Company retains all rights not otherwise abrogated under the express terms of this Agreement as generalized in the Management Rights Clause, sub section 3.01. If the grievance concerns these rights which are not otherwise limited by the express terms of this Agreement, the grievance shall not be arbitrable, unless otherwise required by sub section 48 (12) (j) of the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
b)	Where a difference arises between the parties relating to the interpretation, application or administration of the express provisions of this Agreement including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, or where an allegation is made that the express terms of this Agreement has been violated, either of the parties may, within 25 days from the date of the Step 3 written reply, notify the other party in writing of its desire to submit the difference or allegation to arbitration. A single arbitrator will be selected in rotation from the following arbitrators: Martin Teplitsky, Mary Lou Tims, Tim Armstrong and Gail Brent, within thirty (30) days of notification of the intent to arbitrate.
If the arbitrator so selected cannot hear the case, within sixty (60) calendar days the parties may select the next arbitrator on the list, and if that arbitrator cannot hear the case, within the sixty (60) calendar days continue through the list of arbitrators, in the same manner. In the event none of the arbitrators on the list can hear the case, or the parties cannot agree on a list of arbitrators, the parties will attempt to agree on a single arbitrator to hear the case.
The Arbitrator shall hear and determine the difference or allegation and shall issue a decision and the decision shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon all employees affected by it.
c)	No person shall be selected as an arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
d)	In determining any grievance arising out of a claim of discharge or suspension, the Arbitrator may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, dispose of the grievance by affirming the Company's actions and dismissing the grievance, by setting aside the disciplinary action imposed and restoring the grievor to his former position with or without compensation, or by substituting a lesser penalty for the discharge or suspension.
20
e)	Either party may proceed through the expedited arbitration process of the Ontario Labour Relations Act, (currently Section 49).
17.04	The Union and the Company shall each pay one half of the remuneration and expenses of the Arbitrator, and any other expenses that have been mutually agreed may be incurred by the Arbitrator to assist in arriving at a decision. Any other expenses shall be borne by the Party which incurs them.
17.05	The Company shall have the right to make, change and enforce work
rules. A violation of the Company's work rules shall be grounds for discipline, up to and including discharge. The Grievance procedure may be invoked if a person believes he has been unjustly disciplined, discharged, or suspended. Should settlement of such grievance be arrived at by mutual agreement or arbitration on the basis of reinstating the individual concerned, he will be paid for time lost, if any, less any money earned from other employment or by any other arrangement that may be deemed equitable.
17.06	The manner in which any grievance is settled will never be construed as establishing a policy for either the Company or the Union.
17.07	It is understood that the Company's representatives may call a special meeting of the Union Grievance Committee to present any complaint or grievance with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers, committee-men, or with respect to the conduct of the employees generally or individually and that if such complaint or grievance is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may be referred to arbitration in the same way as a grievance by any employee. It is understood that the Company will give the Union three working days notice of such a meeting.
Any grievance not processed in conformity with this Article 17 shall be deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse shall be at an end. However, changes may be made in Section 17.02 by mutual agreement between the parties.
ARTICLE 18 UNION COMMITTEE
18.01	a) The company will recognize a Union Grievance Committee of not more than three (3) employees who will be known as Union Officers or Stewards elected or appointed by the Union. It is understood that all employees serving on this Committee will, as far as is practical, have one or more years plant seniority.
b) It is understood the Union Stewards and other Union Officers will not
absent themselves from their regular duties unreasonably in order to deal with the grievances of employees or with other Union business, and will at all times obtain permission from their immediate supervisors before leaving their place of work. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
21
18.02	The Company will recognize a Union Negotiating Committee composed of not more than five employees. The Committee will meet with representatives of the Company during the second week of each month.
18.03	The Union will advise the Company in writing of the names of all Union Officers and Stewards.
18.04	Employees elected or appointed by the Union to serve on those Committees with the exception of the Union President, shall where possible work in a different section or shift of the plant.
In the event two or more employees are elected while on the same shift in the same section then such employees will be assigned to different shifts, wherever practical.
For purpose of this Article, Sections of the Plant are as follows:
Maintenance
Services
Production
ARTICLE 19 HEALTH AND SAFETY
19.01	The Company and the Union agree to set up a Joint Health and Safety Committee of not less than 6 and not more than 10 members including the Plant Manager or designee and a member of the Union Executive. Each party will select a minimum of 3 members whose term of office will expire every 12 months on rotational basis, if possible, or such longer period as mutually agreed between the Plant Manager and the President of the Union. The meetings shall be scheduled by the Company not later than the third week of each month. An inspection of the plant will be made prior to each meeting by members of the Joint Health and Safety Committee, selected at the previous month's Safety Meeting.
It is agreed that a Joint Health and Safety Committee member from both Management and the Union will be included in the investigating team for all incidents or accidents requiring a report to the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board.
19.02	Employees will immediately report any unsafe conditions and/or injuries to their foreman in the presence of a witness. If a safety hazard cannot be immediately corrected, the foreman will submit the necessary work order. The Joint Health and Safety Committee will review any outstanding work orders at its next monthly meeting and recommend their disposition to management.
22
19.03	Any situation or conditions reported to be unsafe shall be dealt with by the Joint Health and Safety Committee at the Joint Health and Safety Committee meetings if not rectified before that date.
19.04	It is agreed that the Union may make recommendations through their representatives on the Joint Health and Safety Committee regarding the health and safety of the employees.
19.05	In accordance with prevailing plant policy and at no cost to the employee, the Company shall provide safety devices and other equipment necessary to protect the employees' health and safety while at work.
19.06	A representative of the Union of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be permitted to accompany the government factory inspector on all his tours of the Plant.
19.07	Employees must comply with any and all health, safety and environmental rules throughout the plant at all time.
ARTICLE 20 NOTICE BOARDS
20.01	The Company will provide for a bulletin board in the maintenance department, production department and the employee entrance.
The Union will not post any notice or circular on these boards until it has been approved by the Plant Manager or his authorized representative.
ARTICLE 21 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
21.01	Seniority shall accumulate when an employee is absent by reason of illness, occupational or non-occupational accident for 12 months if he has less than 3 years of plant seniority, for 18 months if he has 3 but less than 8 years plant seniority and for 24 months if he has 8 or more years of plant seniority.
21.02	a) An employee may request a leave of absence, without pay, for personal
reasons, which request is subject to written approval by the Company, and the granting or denial of a leave of absence is without precedent or prejudice.
b)	If an employee requests and is granted a leave of absence for up to three (3) months, on his return he will be reinstated in his former position.
c)	If an employee requests and is granted a leave of absence of three months or more, on his return he will displace the person with the least plant seniority in the lowest classification in the plant, provided he has more plant seniority.
23
21.03	Employees will have the right to request leave of absence without pay to attend to Union business. Up to five (5) employees, but not more than one (1) from a department, and no more than one per shift and one per classification in the Production department with the exception of the Union President] may make such request for each function and such absence will not exceed two weeks duration. Not more than three of such requests need be granted during an agreement year. Seniority shall accumulate during such absence.
ARTICLE 22 DURATION OF AGREEMEN
22.01 a) This Agreement is effective from date of signing until the 31st, October, 2008, and thereafter from year to year unless written notice is given by either party not more than 90 days prior to the 31st, October, 2008 , if they desire to negotiate a new agreement.
b)
Signed this
Rates and wages, as shown in Appendix" A" attached hereto, become effective on the dates indicated.
1 5 r_____________day of	__________, 2005.
ON BEHALF OF:
LOUSIAI^-PACIFIC CANADA, LTD.
0, „
Denis^Pou hot
Company Negotiator
MS
^JexJovartevic FJJant Manager
UNITED STEELWORKERS Local 603-L
Union Negotiator
Sid Barens President, Local 603L
A
Penny Lehman Site HR Manager
like Phelan Production Manager
Teri Giji HR Representative
T. Dales
Treasurer, Local 603L
Brian Patterson,
Recording Secretary, Local 603L
24
“APPENDIX A” STANDARD HOURLY WAGE RATES
1) Classifications and job titles have been modified in the following manner: A.
Classification	Job Title	Effective with the 1st payroll period after:			
			Nov. 3 2005	Nov. 3 2006	Nov. 3 2007
					
12	Machinist& Die Maker IV Electrician	26.42	27.15	27.83	28.53
11	Tradesman III	25.46	26.16	26.81	27.48
9	Tradesman II	18.48	18.99	19.46	19.95
7	Tradesman I	17.78	18.27	18.73	19.19
1	Janitor	15.68	16.11	16.51	16.93
					
10	Chemical Laboratory	19.10	19.63	20.12	20.62
8	Laboratory Technician	17.91	18.40	18.86	19.34
8	Inspector	17.91	18.40	18.86	19.34
6	On-Line Inspector	17.35	17.83	18.27	18.73
					
8	Compounder ‘A’	17.91	18.40	18.86	19.34
2	Compounder'B’	16.46	16.91	17.34	17.77
8	Operator "A"	17.91	18.40	18.86	19.34
5	Operator “B”	17.17	17.64	18.08	18.54
2	Operator ‘C‘	16.46	16.91	17.34	17.77
3	Material Handler ‘A’	16.87	17.33	17.77	18.21
2	Material Handler'B’	16.46	16.91	17.34	17.77
0	General Labour	14.98	15.39	15.78	16.17
Material ‘A’
Hopper Rakers
Box Machine (Lead Hand)
Shipping
Receiving
Scrap
Material‘B’
Stretch Wrap
Box Machine (Helper)
Wood
Crates
Accessory Carton Grinder
25
B.
1.	Employees working on the seven-day schedule will be paid the following premium for all hours worked:
$0.88 per hour for the term of the agreement
2.	Employees appointed by the Company to the position of Lead Hand shall be paid a minimum premium, based on the following schedule, effective with the first payroll period on or after:
November 1,2000	$1.00/hour
3.	Multi-Skill Maintenance Personnel:
The Company will pay an additional $1.00 per hour for the second Provincial Approved License beyond the primary certification required for the department. The Company will pay an additional $0.50 per hour for the third certification license. The three identified certified trades are Millwright, Electrician, and Machinist & Die Maker IV.
4.	Employees hired as "Relief Employees" may be hired at a rate which is not less than 75% of the applicable job rate and the relief employees shall be advanced to a rate which is not less than 85% of the applicable job rate in the second year of their return employment, and to the applicable job rate not later than the third year of their return employment, and to provide further that relief employees shall not be entitled to receive any of the fringe benefits available to employees under the terms of this Agreement.
26
APPENDIX "B" SUMMARY of BENEFITS*
Program	Benefit	Annual cost Sharing Company	Annual Cost Sharing Employee
Basic Life Insurance	$15,000 Less than 1 year $20,000 1 to 2 years $25,000 2 to 3 years $30,000 3 to 4 years $35,000 over4 years	100%	None
"Optional" Life Insurance	Units of $10,000 Smoker Rates per thousand Non-Smoker Rates per thousand including Retail Tax	None	Employee Paid
AD&D	Employee: Units of $10,000 to a maximum of 25 units Spouse: 50% of Employee's coverage (60% if not children) Children: 10% of Employee's coverage (15% if not spouse)	None	Employee Paid
Weekly Indemnity	70% of regular straight time earnings Waiting Period: O working days for accident, hospitalization or out patient surgery 3 (8 hour) working days or 2 (12 hour) working days for sickness and other conditions. Benefit duration 52 weeks. See Note **	100%	None
LTD	60% of the first $1,000 of basic monthly earnings, and 40% of remaining basic monthly earnings with earnings maximum, for benefit purposes, of $5,000 per month	None	Employee Paid
Health Care Insurance	As reflected in the Summary Plan Document Vision Care - Max. $100 every 24 months.	80% Company	20% Employee
Dental Care Insurance	100% Preventive Services: 50% Major Services to $1,500/person/year: 50% orthodontics services age 6-18 $1,500 lifetime; benefits are provided in compliance with the ODA schedule as updated annually.	80% Company	20% Employee
27
*	Appendix “B” is a summary of benefits available under the various benefit documents. Such documents shall control the provision of benefits. The Company retains the right to select the carrier that will provide the benefits.
*	Note: The Company will be looking at opportunities to introduce the deferred payment card for prescription drugs.
** Note:	The minimum benefit shall be the Employment Insurance sickness
minimum. El premium reduction shall be utilized towards the cost of the Company’s share of the Health and Dental Insurance.
+ Rates subject to annual change by the carrier.
APPENDIX C - SEVERANCE LANGUAGE
In the event of a partial or total closure of the Acton Plant resulting in permanent layoffs, employees affected will be entitled to a severance payment equal to one week per completed year of service up to a maximum of 26 weeks
Employees entitled to severance pay under this section shall have the option to terminate their employment and recall rights and accept severance pay either (a) at the time of layoff orb) at the point seniority retention expires.
This severance payment includes any and all monies owed to the employee as per the Employment Standards Act or any other requirement at law.
28
November 1,2005
Letter of Understanding# 1
At the recent set of negotiations, both parties agreed with the restructuring and reorganizing of the employees represented in the Collective Labour Agreement.
As such, it was agreed that employees currently classified in the positions listed below would have a one time opportunityto elect to be re-classified as an “Operator C” or a “Material HandlerB”.
Eligible positions to elect re-classification are:
Packers, Box Machine, Stretch Wrap, Wood, Crates,
Accessory Cartons & Grinder
All further job postings, transfers & promotions will be based upon Ability & Seniority as defined in Article 1 - Definitions, Section 1.04.
New employees at time of hiring will be classified as General Labourers unless they have the Skill & Ability to perform a specific open position which we have been unable to fill with a Job Posting as per Article 16, Section 16.03.
/Plant Manager
*//tf
Sid Barens President, Local 603L