JRCE				
			oc}	Od.
f£RM.	?A			IQ
No. OF f MPIOYEES				
NOM.RE D'tMPLOYES		OiJ		
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between:
WALTEC PLASTICS DIVISION OF EMCO LIMITED
And:
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION CLC, AFL-CIO AND LOCAL 1476
EFFECTIVE DATES SEPTEMBER 20, 1993 to
SEPTEMBER 19, 1995
ARTICLE 1 ■	TABLE CF CONTENTS WALTEC PLASTICS DIVISION OP EMCO LIMITED ■ GENERAL PURPOSE.. . 	 1
ARTICLE 2-	RECOGNITIONAND COVERAGE 2
ARTICLE 3 ■	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 2
ARTICLE 4 ■	UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF	 3
ARTICLE 5-	DISCRIMINATION AND INTIMIDATION	 4
ARTICLE 6-	UNION REPRESENTATION	 4
ARTICLE 7-	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	
ARTICLE 8-	ARBITRATION 	•••,		 1
ARTICLE 9-DISCHARGE.................................... 8
ARTICLE 10	■ STRIKES, LOCKOUTS AND SLOWDOWNS	 9
ARTICLE 11	• SENIORITY 	 	 9
ARTICLE 12	■ TRANSFERS AND JOB POSTINGS 11
ARTICLE 13	■ LAYOFFS AND RECALLS 14
ARTICLE 14	■ LEAVE OF ABSENCE 17
ARTICLE 15 ■	• NOTICESAND ANNOUNCEMENTS 		 19
ARTICLE 16	■ REPORTING ALLOWANCE 20
ARTICLE 17	■ TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE		 21
ARTICLE 18 ■	COMPANY RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS	 22
ARTICLE 19 -	VACATIONS WITH PAY		 25
ARTICLE 20 •	WAGES 		 26
ARTICLE 21 -	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	 28
ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS . . ,.........................
I
- SAFETY AND HEALTH . . !.......................
NOTIFICATION........!...........................
DURATION AND TERMINATION .......................
I
WAGE APPENDIX.......,...........................
APPENDIX "A" WAGE SCHEDULE .....................
APPENDIX "B" LETTER OF INTENT...................
APPENDIX "C" INJECTION [jlEPARTMENT - WEEK-END SHIFTS
REQUESTS FOR VACATIONS..........................
AGREEMENT ON POLICY i...........................
LETTER OF AGREEMENT.............................
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING.........................
35
37
37
38
41
42
45
46 49
49
50 50
1
THIS AGREEMENT entered into at Midland, Ontario, as of the 20th day of September, 1993.
BY AND BETWEEN:
WALTEC PLASTICS DIVISION OP EMCO LIMITED
located in Midland, Ontario (hereinafter referred to as '“the Company")
AND:
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION CLC, AFL-CIO AND LOCAL 1476
(hereinafter referred to as “the Union")
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL PURPOSE
1.01	It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement to assure sound and mutually beneficial industrial and economic relationships between parties hereto, to provide an orderly and peaceful means of conducting negotiations and resolving any misunderstandingorgrievartces, and to set forth hereinthe basic and full agreement betweenthe parties covering rates of pay, wages, hours of work and other conditions of employment.
1.02	The parties agree that neither employees nor employer should endeavour to limit the production of an individual, and that only in the progressively more profitable operation of the Company c|n the employees basically secure greater earnings and security.
1.03	The parties agree that the above objectives can be better achieved by compliance at all times with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and by the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances.
2
ARTICLE-2 - RECOGNITION AND COVERAGE
2 oi The Company recognizesthe Union during the terms of this Agreement as the sole collective bargainingagentfor all employees of Walteo Plastics Division of Emco Limited, Midland, Ontario, save and except supervisors, personsabove the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff, security guards, students employed during the school yea( for not more than twenty (20) hours a week, and homeworkers
Work normally performed by Bargaining Unit employees shall not be done by employees outside the Bargaining Unit, except for students as defined above
2.02	The word "employee" or "employees" wherever used in this Agreement shall mean any or all of the employees in the Bargaining Unit as defined above except where the context otherw|se provides.
2.03	Where the masculine pronoun Pi used herein, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the corflext applies.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it js the exclusive function of the Company to manage the business and direct t(ie working force, including but not limitedto the following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
«*)
To maintain order and and formulate reasonat and safety regulations
Efficiency, and set quality standards, enforce le plant rules and regulations, including fire
To hire, layoff, classify, discharge or demote f employee to submit a gr or discharge.
transfer, promote or discipline, suspend, r just cause. Subject to the right of the evance inthe case of discipline, suspension
To schedule and change hours of work, to determine and change
work assignments, to discontinue jobs.
decide employee qualifications, and to
To manage the industrial enterprises in which the Company is engaged, determining f ie products and materials to be handled, processed and manufswured, the methods of manufacturing, the schedules, extension 4hd limitations of operations, the kinds,
3
numbers and location of plants, machines and equipment to be used, the processesof manufacturing and the nature of its products
The Union acknowledgesthatthe Company has and shall retain the sole right and responsibility to subcontract work as long as the action of subcontracting doea not mean that present employees will be laid off
(f) The Company agrees that the above functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Agreement and the Collective Bargaining Rights Of the Union.
ARTICLE 4- UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
4.01	All new employees shall, as a condition of employment, pay a Local Union initiation fee. This initiation fee shall be the first two hours pay of the new employee and shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Local.
An employee who has been rehiredsHallmot be required to pay a new initiation fee unless he has been out of the employ of the Company for more than two (2) years.
All employees upon completion of their probationary period shall, as a condition of employment, pay union dues, or an amount equivalent to union dues, which will be the amount prescribedby the Constitutionofthe Union, the first such payments to be considered the International Union initiation fee.
These dues or the equivalent shall be deducted from the second pay period of each month and the amounts so deducted shall be remitted monlhly by cheque to the Ontario Joint Council, 1S Gervais Drive, Suite 700, Don Mills, Ontario, M3C 1Y8, whose receipt thereof shall be considered as a discharge to the Company for the amount so deducted.
4.02	Employees who are, or who during the term of this Agreement become members of the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment with the Company, remain members in good standing of the Union.
4.03	The Company will, at the time of making the original remittance to the Union, specify the employees' names from whose pay such deductions were made. For subsequent remittancethe Companywill supplythe Unionwith astatement showing the name of each permanent employee from who no deduction was made and the reasons thereof.
4
4.04	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims.
suds, judgements, attachments, ahd from any form of liability as a result of such deductions
ARTICLE 5 - DISCRIMINATION AND INTIMIDATION
5	It is agreed that there will be no clijscrimination, coercion or intimidation by the
Company, the Management, the Ljnion or its officers or members against any employee because of his activity, or lack of activity, membership or non membershipin any political, labour or Union organization or because of race, creed, colour, age, sex, marital status, nationality, ancestry or place of origin.
5.02	It is further agreed that there shalljbe no solicitation of members, collection of dues or other Union activities orj the premises of the Company except as permitted by this Agreement. It is (understood that no meeting of the Union or its members shall be held on the (premises of the Company, nor shall any of ' its activities be so held at any (ime without prior written approval of the Company.
5.03	The Union agrees that under no circumstances will contractual or supervisory maintenance personnel, to maximum of four (4), or contractualsecurity guards, to a maximum of four (4), be prevented from having free and unmolested entrance to, and departure from the plant, for the purpose of performing their duties. The Company agrees that under no circumstances will the above mentioned personnel perform production work.
5.04	It is further agreed that any employee who violates any of the provisions of this Article may be disciplined by the Company.
ARTICLE6- UNION REPRESENTATION
6.01	The Company recognizesthe righi ofthe Unionto elect,appoint, or otherwise select a Bargaining Committee of not more than five (5) members of the local Union, who have at least one m year's service with the Company. This Committee will be the BargainingjCommittee for negotiations.
The Union Executive will act as a grievance Committee. A maximum of five (5) will act as a Grievance Committed
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06 6.07
5
The Union will elect or appoint and the Company will recognize the number of Shop Stewards from each of the following department groups as indicated:
(a)	Compression	- three (3)
<b>	Finishing	- one (1) Per Shift
(c)	Injection	- three (3) Per Plant
(d)	Materials Handling	■ one (1) Per Plant
(e)	Plant Services	• one (1) - Heritage Plant - two (2) - Crown Plant
(»)	Plating	- one (1) Per Shift
(g)	Quality Assurance	■ one (1)
In the event that a departure reduces The number of shifts worked, the departmental Union Steward of the shift eliminated will be consideredas having the most seniority, subject to Article 13.05, while remaining in the department as a Union Steward (notto exceed the present elected term).
The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the Union Stewards and the departmentscr group of departments each represents, and of any changes in the personnel of the Uhion Stewards before the Company shall be required to recognize them.
It is mutually agreed that the employees shall not be eligible to serve as Stewards until they have at least one (1) year’s service with the Company.
t is understood that Union Stewards have their regular work to perform on behalf of the Company, and if it is necessary to service a grievance during working hours they will not cease their work without obtaining permission of their supervisor. Such permission will noli be unreasonably withheld. V\frien resuming their regular work they will reporit to their supervisor.
The Grievance Committee and Union Stewards shall be allowed reasonable time off to investigate grievances and to eittend meetings with management, and shall be compensated for time spent during working hours at their straight time hourly rate. Any abuse of such privilege may be the subject of a grievance by the Company.
V\frien an employee is disciplinedthe Union official present shall be a Steward in the department, if not available then a Stsward of their choice or a member of Executive who are then present. The parties agree the provisions are directory. The Company agrees to advise its supervisorsto comply with the provision.
ARTICLE 7 ■ GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7 01 Complaints and grievances shall be adjusted as quickly as possible
7 02 An employee who has a corf’Plaint or grievance shall present it to his supervisor within seven (7) worpg days of the date the employee was first aware or reasonably could have “pen aware of the occurrence. The supervisor must give the employee his (TSision within two (2) full working days of receiving the employee's commnt or grievance. The departmental Shop Steward may accompany the PRiployee when presenting his complaint or grievance.
7.03	If the supervisor's answer giiven the employee in clause 7.02 was unsatisfactory, the grievance wit be taken up in the following sequence and manner. Forms for this use are ^o b( supplied by the Union and approved by the Company.	j
Step 1
The written grievance, signed bylthe grieving employee and by the Steward of the department involved, will be presented to the supervisor of the department within four (4) full working days or the supervisor’s decision in clause 7.02. The supervisor will give written decision to the departmental Shop Steward within four (4) full working days of receiving the written grievance. The grievance will be considered settled unless Step 2 is taken within four (4) full working days following the written decision given by the supervisor in Step 1.
Step 2
The written grievance will be si Plant Manager or his representat will give his written decision to working days of receiving the considered settled unless Step following the written decision giyi in Step 2,
Step 3
ubmltted by the Grievance Committee to the ive. The Plant Manager or his representative the Grievance Committee within four (4) ful written grievance. The grievance will be 3 is taken within four (4) full working daye en by the Plant Manager or his representative
The written grievance, including copies of the submissions and decisions made under the preceding steps, will be submitted to the General Manager. The General Manager will give his written decision to the Grievance Committee within five (5) full working days of receiving the written grievance. If the General Manager is not availably, the parties may mutually agree to extend the
7
normalfive (5) day time period or acceptfhe General Manager'snominee. The grievance will be considered settled unless timely request for Arbitration, as provided in Article 8 of the Agreement is made following the written decision of the General Manager or his nominee in Step 3,
7.04	A representative of the International Union may be present at any of the proceedings under Step 2 or 3 above, at the request of either party,
7.05	Any difference or grievance arising directly between the Company arid Union may be submitted in writing by either pa|ty at Step 2.
7.06	\Afoen a group of employees from more than one department has a complaint or grievance, it shall be first taken up under Step 2.
7.07	Any adjustmentarising out of the settlement of an employee's grievance, or the grievance of a group of employees, under the grievance or arbitration procedure shall not be made retroactive prior to the beginning of the pay period immediately proceeding the date on which it was first presented thereunder in writing by the employee or the group of employees concerned. The above restriction on retroactivity will hot apply to payroll grievances.
7.08	The Union acknowledges that probationary employees may be dismissed by the Company, and that such dismissal shall not be the subject of a grievance.
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
8.01	Failing a settlement under the Grievance Procedure. the matter in dispute may be taken to arbitration, provided that if nd written request is received within fourteen (14) calendardays after the final decision is given underthe grievance procedure it shall be deemedto have been! finally, completely,and satisfactorily settled.
8.02	\Afoen either party requests arbitration as hereinabove provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement and, at the same time, nominate an arbitrator. The notice shall state the matter at issue and shall state in what respect the Agreement has been violated or misinterpreted by reference to the specific clause or clauses relied upon. The notice shall also state the nature of the relief or remedy sought. The Party so notifiedshall appoint their arbitrator within t6n (10) working days of such notice.
The two (2) arbitrators so nominated shall1 meet within ten (10) working days, and if within five (5) further full working days they fail to settle the grievance, they shall attempt to select by agreement a third person who shall act as
8
impartial chairman of the Arbitration. # they are unable to agree on the choice of such a chairman within seven (7 ) calendar days, then the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall be asked to name i chairman of the Arbitration Board.
8.03
8.04
8.05
6.06
8.07
8.08
8.09
No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
No mattermay be submittedto a through all previous required sted:
rlpttration which has not been properly carried is of the grievance procedure.
The proceedings of the Arbitrati hereto, and the decision of a maj' upon the Company, Union and e
ion Board will be expedited by the parties jority of such board shall be final and binding irrtployees concerned.
Each of the parties hereto will bdfrthe expense of the arbitrator appointed by it, or for it, and parties will equar bear the expenses, if any, of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
The Arbitration Board shall n<3f have any authority to make a decision inconsistent with the provisions if this Agreement.
Any and all time limits referred to under the grievance and arbitration procedures herein may, at any time, be extended by written agreement between the Company and the Union.
In determining and dischargeor jany other disciplinary grievance, the Board of Arbitration shall have the authority to:
(a)
(b)
(c)
affirm the Company's
action and dismiss the grievance;
set aside the penalty grievor to his former
imposed by the Company, and restore the Position with or without compensation; or
vary or alter the penalty imposed by the Company or make such other determination as tine Board in its discretion may dee m justified.
ARTICLE 9 - DISCHARGE
9.01 A discharged employee shall have the right to discuss their grievance with their Shop Steward in the Personnel office before leaving the plant. If an employee claims the discharge to be unjust, it shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged by the employee with the Plant Manager
9
within two (2) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company. This grievance shall be takeri up under the Grievance Procedure, and Step 1 will be omitted.
9.02	Sudh special grievances may be settled under the grievance or arbitration procedure by:
(i)	Confirming the management's action in discharging the employee.
(ii)	Reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost less such sums earned by the emplpyee from the date of their dismissal to the date of their reinstatement.
(jjj) Or by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
ARTICLE 10 - STRIKES. LOCKOUTS AND SLOWDOWNS
10.01	In view of the orderly procedures here set out for settling grievances, the Company agrees that there will be nolockput of the employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strike, slow-down, sit-down or any stoppage of work, or any other action either partial or complete, either by an individual employee or by a group of employees, which will in anyway disrupt the operations of the Company.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11.01	Forthe first forty-fie (45) days worked frpm the date of hire, new employees will be considered probationary and not erjtitled to seniority. The forty-five (45) day probationary period will be extended by plant vacations, but not beyond a consecutive thirteen (13) week lay off or any occurrence over which the Company has no control.
During the forty-five (45) day probationary period, as outlined in this Article, new employees will not be entitled to seniority, and may be dismissed or laid off at the discretion of the Company.
Upon the expiration of the probationary period as outlined in this Article, new employees shall acquire seniority rights and be placedonthe seniority list with seniority established from the first working day of the employee's last hiring.
11.02	The Company will providethe Urtionwith updated department and plant wide seniority lists every three (3) mPnths which shall be posted on a Company bulletin board for a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days
All seniority lists will show the employee's name and date of employment as well as the employee's status or job classification in the following plant departments
(a)	Compression
(b)	Finishing
(c)	Injection
(d)	Materials Handling
(e)	Plant Services
(f)	Plating
(g)	Quality Assurance
(h)	Spray Painting
The Spray Painting and Finishing Departments will be administered as one department for all purposes except seniority, layoffand recall.
The Company agrees to continue to administerthe Plant Service Department in the same manner as when the Tool and Maintenance sections were named as separate departments under the Collective Agreement. Such practices will include, but not be limited to seniority and preference for vacation periods.
11.03	An employee shall lose all seniority if that employee:
(a)
(b)
(c)
Voluntarily quits the eijnploy of the Company.
Is discharged by the through the Grievancei
(fompany and such discharge is not reversed Procedure.
Following a layoff of indeterminate period, on being notified by the Company by registered mail to the employee's last known address, with a copy of the letter to the President of Local 1476, fails to advise the Company with seven (7) calendar days of the date of the mailing ofthe registered letteF of the employee's intentionto returnto work. Such returnto work, unless otherwise agreed by the Company, for reasonable cause, m%t be within two (2) workings days of receipt of the original notice.
<d) Has been laid off for rjnore than twelve (12) consecutive months. In the case of employees with five (5) years' seniority or more, at the time of layoff, has been laid off for more than twenty-four (24)
11
consecutive months; or, in thO case of employees with ten (10) years' seniority or more at the;time of layoff, has been laid off for more than thirty-six (36) consecutive months.
If absent without leave for twp (2) complete working days. An employee is considered absent without leave if no report is made to the Personnel office or the employee's shift supervisor by the end of their regular shift. Legitimate reasons for failing to comply with the foregoing will be taken into consideration.
(f)	Following a layoff for a determined period, fails, without permission of the Company, to report for work on the date and the time specified at the time of layoff.
(g)	Following a period of sick leave exceeding the authorized absence under Article 22.03 (e) (ii), foils to provide requested medical certification.
11.04	It shall be the duty of employees to notify the Company promptly in writing of any change of address or telephone If an employee fails to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of notice to reach such employee
11.05	An employee shall not suffer loss of seniority owing to absence through accident or illness provided that the Company may require proof of such absence in the form of a certified statement from a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Chiropractic, that the employee was unfit for work on the day(s) in question
ARTICLE 12 - TRANSFERS AND JOB POSTINGS
12.01	Definitions:
(a)	A transfer is the relocation of a seniority employee to a permanent vacancy in the same or another] department which results from an employee application, application of seniority, or other reason Requests by seniority employees for change of shifts within a department shall not be considered as transfers and will only be granted on a "request if possibfo" basis.
(b)	A permanent vacancy is an opening within any classificationof more than thirty (30) days duration. A vacancy created by an employee who is absent due to illness, injury, vacation or authorized leave of absence shall not be considered a permanent vacancy
12
12.02
12.03
12.04
(c)
A general worker level shall be considered as the lowest job classification in a department.
All permanentvacanciesabovethjs levelof generalworkers,and newly created positionsabove the level of general worker in any department shall be posted for two (2) consecutive working days on a Company bulletin board before permanently filling such vacancy., An employee desiring such position must make application in writing to the Personnel Departmentwithin two (2) working days from the initial time of postirjig.
Employees on leave of absence bf approved vacation will be considered for job vacancies or new positions aPSve the levelof general worker if application in writing is made to the Personrm Office within forty-three (43) calendar days of the job vacancy, or within two fp) working days of returnto work, whichever is the shorter period.
In the case of job vacancies at thje general worker level in any department, a Courtesy Notice will be placed oh the bulletin board so that applications from within the plant regardless of department may be considered. Such Courtesy Notices will remain posted for ai minimum of twenty-four (24) hours. If the position is filled within forty-eight 48) hoursfromtime the notice posted, it will be subject to change based on further applications received for that period.
The Company will provide an answer to all applicants within ten (10) working days of the notice removal.
The Company will notify the Uniorl of the name(s) of the successful applicants) and place their name(s) on the pjiant bulletin board.
Employees wishing consideration for transfer must complete a Transfer Application provided by the company and present it to the Personnel Department. Periodically, the Personnel Office will notify transfer applicantsof the necessity to renew their applications. Failure to renew within seven (7) calender days of this notice will invalidate a transfer application.
Transfer applicants will be considered at the time of a job vacancy. Transfer applicants for another department cannot be accepted if they have been successfully transferred in the preceding six (6) months. Newly hired employees will not be eligible fdr transfer until they have completed six (6] months' service with the Company unless there are no other successfu applicants. Further, transfer applicants will be interviewed by the Personne Manager (or designate) and eva uatec in view of the requirements of the job vacancy. The person selected Will be the person who in the judgment of the Company has the following:
13
(a)	Qualificationsto perform the job
(b)	Ability to perform the job
<c) Qualities of reliability and responsibility.
(d) Seniority will govern if other requirements are met
Should the Company NOT choose the most senior applicant from among present Company employees, the following documentation must be available for inspection by a member of the Union Executive.
Written examinations taken by both the applicant refused the position and the applicant accepted, will be in each employee's personnel file. Also any trade certification or recommendationswill be;filed along with the hiring supervisor's written report on each person.
If the Union Executive representativewishes to inspect these documents it will be done in the presence of the hiring supervisor and the Personnel Manager (or their designates) within seven (7) working days of the posted notice showing the successful applicant.
Any applicant with more seniority than the applicant accepted, will have the opportunity to discuss the refusal of their application and the reasonsthereof, with the Supervisor of the department doing the hiring in the presence of the Personnel Manager (or designate) and the employee's Union Steward before the notice showing the successful applicant is posted.
None of the foregoing will preclude the Company going outside the Company for applicants if suitable applicants afe not available among the present employees.
12.05	A transferred employee will retain the seniority of their former department or section for forty-five (45) working days, after which time seniority will be transferred to the employee's new department.
12.06	Should a transferred employee prove unsatisfactory within a period of forty-five (45) working days of transfer, the emplbyee will be returned to their former position and department. If the employee's former position in a particular group or shift has been filled, the employee may be compelled to go into another group or shift where there is an1 opening. Further, the employee will be advised of reasonsfor unsatisfactory performance by the Supervisor of the department or section doing the hiring!, in the presence of the Personnel Manage (or designate), and the employee's Union Steward.
12 07 Any seniority hourly employee transferring to the salaried staff of Waltec Plastics Division of Emco Limited will be on probation for three (3) calendar months. During this period the transferred employee wilt remain a seniority Union member, pay Union due^ and be subject to all terms of the existing Collective Agreement except the; following:
(a)	Rates of pay
(b)	Hours of work.
<c) Grievance procedures in regard to transfer from salaried back to hourly.
If, during the three (3) month probation period the transferred employee is found unsuitable, or if the employee elects not to continue with the salaried position, the employee will be returned to their former hourly position without loss of seniority.
If the employee has passed the salaried probationary period, but is still within twelve (12) calendar months of tfie originaltransferand if for any reason either on behalf of the Company or qn behalf of the employee there is a need to move from salaried back to houifty, the employee will be given the opportunity to accept a job which in the judgment of the Company is suitable to the employee's qualifications and Ability in the Department employing the least senior person inthe Company §] that particular time. The employee will regain their seniority, including that tFre period while on Waltec Plastics Division of Emco Limited salaried staff, Thja least senior employee, then will be laid off.
If a seniority employee is permanently unable to perform their job due to health reasons, that employee will be diven the opportunity to transfer to another job classification in any departmert, conditional upon their ability to perform the new job satisfactorily in the opinion of the Company and upon his having greater seniority than the person he displaces. The least senior person in the department would be laid off j or given the opportunity for other work if available. The employee making the transfer would retain seniority, but would receive effective immediately, tqb wage rate of the new job.
ARTICLE 13 • LAYOFFS AND RECALL^
13.01	Reductions of the work force [ will be carried out in accordance with the following procedure, provided ir( each case that the employees re mainingin the department are willing and quajified to perform the work available. In case of layoffsthe Company will notify the employees involved as early as possible, but
15
at the latest before the employee leavesithe plant.
(a)	In the event of a layoff in a department which is not expected to exceed three (3) working days, seniority provisions shall not necessarily apply in determining the reduction of the work force. However when time permits, the Company will endeavour to reduce the work force according to departmental seniority.
(b)	In the event of a layoff which is expected to exceed three (3)working days up to and including six (0) weeks, the following procedure will govern:
(1)	Inany departmentwhere a workforce reduction is necessary, probationary employees will be laid off first.
(2)	If further reduction to the work force is necessary in a department, regular employees will be laid off in inverse order of departmental seniority.
13.02	Ii the event of layoff which is expected |o exceed six (6) weeks, or in which more than six (6) weeks of posted layoff have been accumulated by an employee in a twelve (12) month period in the employee's current department, the following procedure will govern:
(1)	Employees who have at least one (1) year's seniority will be given the opportunity to temporarily transfer into the department which at the time is employing the leastisenior person in the Company, and if this action is taken, the leastisenior person will be laid off.
(2)	This type of temporary transfer under layoff conditions is voluntary.
(3)	If the job in the department which employs the least senior person in the Company happens to be a job that cannot be performed by the person being laid off, the opportunity will pass to the department employing the next lowest senior person in the Company.
(4)	Pay scale of job to which employee transfers will apply immediately upon transfer.
(5)	Once a regularemployee With one (1) or more years' seniority elects layoff in lieu of temporary transfer that employee shall not have the right to return to work until recalled by the Company to that employee's original job classification.
13.03
13.04
13.05
(6)
(7)
(8) (9)
Applicants for temporary transfer under layoff conditions must be capable of performing the work required on the job to which they expect to transfer. Regular employees who exercise their seniority and temporarily transfer to another department under layoff conditions, shall have fwe (5) working days to reach an acceptable level of performance in (heir new temporary classification or be laid
Off
Regular employees who have elected temporary transfer in lieu of layoff retain the seniority of their original department as well as carry this same seniority to the department in which they have temporarily transferred in the eventlof a further layoff.
Regular employees whb have elected temporary transfer in lieu of layoff must return to their originaljob classification and department when there is an increase in the work force of their original department and their former position again becomes available.
In the event of a layoff vjrhich is expected to exceed six (6) weeks; or accumulated six (6) wqeks of posted layoff, employees with six (6) years' seniority or morie may elect to bump into any department employing a junior employee in any classification the more senior employee is qualified tq> perform.
An employee displaced as a result of this Article shall exercise their bumping rights.
When there is an increase intfUrork force, laid off employees will be recalled in order of seniority provided ttHY are willing and qualifiedto perform the work available. During periods 3f l§roff seniority will accumulate subject to the provisionsof Article 11.03.	,
No new employees will be hired Until all laid off employees who are willing and qualified to do the jobs have be^n recalled, subject to all other provisionsof Article 13.
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Article, members of the Shop Committee shall, in the event of 4 layoff or recall, be considered as having the most seniority in the department, and shall be continued at work, if work is available, provided they are willing and able to perform whatever work is then available.
17
Departmental Union Stewards will be considered as having the most seniority on their respective shifts in their depaftfnent. Where more than one (1) Steward in a department is entitled to supsr seniority by virtue of 6.02 or 13.05, then seniority as between themselves will be determined by their relative positions on the departmental seniority lists.
The Shop Committee, under the provisions of this Article, shall include all Departmental Union Stewards and Officers of the Local Union Executive.
13.06	No seniority employee will be laid off |<vhile a student remains employed, provided the employee is capable and willing to perform the job.
13.07	The parties agree that for purposes of layoff Technicians 1, 2 and 3 with a minimum of one (1) years’ seniority shall ,notbe effected by such layoff until a seniority level of seven (7) years is reached. For the purpose of recall, Technicians 1 and 2 with a minimum of one (1) year’s seniority shall be deemed to have five (5) years’ seniority.
It is further agreed that in the event sugh employee may, provided he has greater seniority, elect to bump the lea^t senior employee who’s job he is qualified to perform in any department.
ARTICLE 14 ■ LEAVE OF ABSENCE
14.01	The Company may grant leave of absencja without pay to any employee for a legitimate personal reason for up to three (3) months. Any such person who is absent with written permission shall npt be considered to be laid off, and their seniority shall continue to accumulate during their absence.
To ensure fair treatment of the intent of this clause, all applications for leave of absence will be reviewed by the Department Manager, the Personnel Manager, and the General Manager.
14.02	Any leave of absence shall be confirmed in writing, and no such leave will affect any employee’s seniority rights when uspd for the purpose granted, if an employee uses their leave of absence for |ny other purpose than the purpose for which it was granted, he may lose hisjseniority.
14.03	The Company will grant leave of absence \jvithout pay to a maximum of two (2) delegated Union membersto attend Unioifi Conventions or Conferencesfor a maximum of ten (10) working days peryear. Up to eight (8) additionalworking days leave of absence without pay will be considered for the delegated Union members if they are members of the Executive Committee of the Ontario Joint
18
Council and are required to atterid Regional Office meetings, providing such leave will not critically affect the operation of the department concerned. both cases, the Company must b«i notified in writing at least seven (7)calendar days in advance of any requested leave of absence.
14.04
Bereavement
Should a death occur in the immediate family (wife, husband, child, mother, father, sister, brother, father-in-law-or mother-in-law, grandparents, brother-inlaw, sister-in-law of an employee or spouse), the Company will grant leave of absence for a period of not more than three (3) working days at the employee's basic hourly rate. Such leave of absence shall be granted provided:
(a)
(b)
The employee hascojpleted his probationary period.
The leave of absence! is for the days of funeral, or interment, or mourning period.
Saturdays, Sundays, paid holiday days and paid vacation leave are not working days under this clause. Paid holidays and paid vacation days used as bereavement leave must be taken in the first available working days the employee was originally scheduled to return to work.
In cases of deferred interment, the employee can elect to defer bereavement day(s) until that time provided the actual interment day is taken as bereavement leave and the Company is notified of the employee's intention. Should deferred interment take place on a weekend, the working day(s) nearest the interment day would be taken.
"Common-law" relationships will be deemed to exist for purposes of this and other benefit clauses where an employee has filed an appropriate declaration no less than once per year.
14.05	Court Appearances
If an employee is called for Jury Duty or subpoenaed by the Crown as a witness, the Company will pay ihe difference between the daily pay and the employee's normal regular straight time pay, for any day the employee would have normally worked. This will be exclusive of any transportation costs or reimbursements. The employee must supply to the Company, the necessary documents to verify reimbursements. If the employee reports for court appearances (referred to above) and then is released for the balance of the day, he will be expected to report to work as soon as possible that day.
19
The Company will grant leave of absence with pay to an employee whose child of less than sixteen (16) years of ag^1 is subpoenaed by the Crown as a witness.
The employee's Supervisormust be notified at the time of Jury Duty notification or subpoena and the usual written authbrization signed.
14.06	Union Officers will begrantedtimeoff without pay to attend Executive meetings of the Union Local provided that the (meetings are scheduled so that the majority of Officers attending would not normally be on shift at thattime. The Company must be notified in writing pt least seven (7) calendar days in advance of any requested leave of absence.
14.07	If an employee fails to report for work ak the expiration of any leave granted, he shall be deemed to have resigned unless excused by the Company.
14.08	The Company will grant three (3) days leave of absence to expectant fathers at the the of their child's birth. Such leave <f absence will be with pay. The employee's Supervisor must be notified !in advance with as much notification time as practical and the usual written authorization signed.
14.09	Leave of absence with pay, up to a maximum of one (1) day, will be granted to the appropriate department Union Steward, to attend the funeral of an employee of the Company.
14.10	Leave of absence may be granted to delegated Union members to attend Union sponsored safely and/or educatioiji seminars to a maximum often (10) working days per employee per year. L|0ave of absence will not be refused unless it will critically affect the operation of the department involved.
14.11	All written requests for leave of absent*© to be answered within three (3) working days.
ARTICLE 15 - NOTICES AND ANNOUNCEMENT?
15.01	All Union bulletinsto be posted in the plejint must have prior approval of both the local Union President (or Union ajjthorized signing officer), and the Personnel Manager (or designate). These approved Union Bulletins shall only be posted on bulletin boards provided by the Company.
Further, the Union agrees that it will not distribute any pamphlet, circular or petition in the Plant without prior approval of the Personnel Manager (or designate).
20
ARTICLE 16- REPORTING ALLOWANCE
16.01
If an employee re ports for work at the commencement of their usual shift and on time, they shall be entitled tcj a minimum number of hours pay equivalent to half of the employee's regulai| shift at no less than their regular payroll rate unless notified previously by thb Company not to report, either orally or by notice on the bulletin board, or by message left at the employee's residence provided that, if requested by the Company, the employee shall perform a minimum number of hours equivalent to half of the employee's regular shift of such reasonable alternate work as the Company may assign; and provided further that there shall be no such obligation on the part of the Company to pay any reporting allowance if thp lack of work is occasioned by circumstances beyond the Company’s control !
16.02	If an employee is asked to corrtj* back to work after their regular hours, and if it is not an extension of their rftbular shift at the end of the regular shift, the employee is entitled to "CALL-W" pay. An employee working any time Up to two (2) hours at two (2) times fhe straight hourly rate. Time worked by an employee in excess of two (Jl hours on "CALL-IN will be subject to the overtime provisions of Article 2l .04.
If, for their own convenience, an employee chooses to return later instead of extending their shift, it will be coijisidered normal overtime instead of "CALL-1 N.
The Union recognizes the Company's right to request the employee to work for the fulltime paid on "CALL-IN".
16.03	If an employee is designated oh the Stand-by Duty Rosterfor a weekend or Company recognized holiday, the effected employee will receive two (2) hours pay per Stand-by day at the employee's regular hourly rate.
The inclusion of an individual^ name on Stand-by Duty Roster is voluntary. However, once it is inckufdteaij H must remain for a three (3) month cycle. If anyone 'trades-off a weekend, the posted list must be changed by Friday 10:00 a,m. at the latest by the person originally designated for duty.
16.04	tf an employee is contacted wihile on vacation and subsequently voluntarily agrees to work for any period djuring that vacation, they will receive 1 1 /2 times their normalwage rate for that period. Also the equivalent time worked will be granted at a later date as regular vacation.
21
ARTICLE 17 • TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
17.01	It is agreed that it is to the advantage of bpth the Company and the employees to utilize all possible technological variation, automation, and scientific improvements.
17.02	It is agreed that for the purpose of this Article, technological changes shall be defined as the effect upon employees of the permanent elimination of an operator or majority of an operator’s time brought about by major changes in machinery design. This, in no way, is to be interpreted in a manner which would prevent the Company from making normal improvements and savings through increased efficiency or establishing new work standards by altering or improvingthe production methods and efficiency of machinery or personnel, provided such acts are consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
17.03	The Company shall notify the Union not less than thirty (30)calendar days before the introduction of any technological change and shall endeavour to furnish all information necessary to an understanding of the proposed change and shall discuss with the Union methods of achieving the change to ensure that the interest of the Company and the employees are fairly and effectively protected.
17.04	In addition to notice of separation, any employee discharged by the Company as the result of technological change will bje eligible for a severance allowance on the basis of one (1) week's pay at their straight time hourly rate for each full year of seniority to a maximum of twenty-six (,2ffjweeks’ pay.
Severance pay will be paid to the severed employee each regular pay day until the maximum severance pay has been paid to the employee as explained in this clause. If the employee is rehired during the periodthat he is entitled to severance pay • severance pay will ceaSe immediately on rehiring. If an employee is willing to accept another position in the department in lieu of severance, employees will be given this opportunity in order of seniority if such positionsare available. If the employee accepts a new job in lieu of severance he shall then receive the rate of his former (jobfor a period of one (1)weekfor each six (6) months of seniority with a maximum of thirteen (13) weeks and a minimum of three (3) weeks.
17.05	in the event a technological change creates a job classificationthat immediately requires skilled employees the Company will have the right to hire skilled employees. If, however, a technological Change creates a job classification whereby the Company has sufficient time to train present employees for this position, then the employees in the department will be given the opportunity, in order of seniority, to train for the position, provided in the judgment of the
22
Company the employee or employees concerned have the necessary qualifications to be trained for thp job.
17.06	When a technological change creates a newjob classificationthe Company will
set the rate of pay for this job. t the rate is not satisfactory to the employee concerned it may become the subject of a grievance.
ARTICLE 18 ■ COMPANY RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
18.01	The following days are Company recognized holidays for the purpose of this Agreement.
(i)
(ii)
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Eve (i) Christmas Day Boxing Day
One Floating Holiday (ii)
The day designated $ the day before Christmas unless that day is a Saturday or Sunday, then a day in the week following Christmas.
The floating holiday Will be observed annually on a day to be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union. However, in the event the Federal Government legislated Heritage Day, the floating holiday will bp observed on the day so designated.
Christmas Shutdown Days
I
1993
Christmas Eve Christmas Day Boxing Day New Year's Day
December24-	Friday
December 27 ■	Monday
December 28-	Tuesda^
December 31 -	Friday
1994
July 1 -	Friday	■ Canada Day
July 4 -	Monday	• Floater
December 26 -	Monday	- Christmas Eve
December 27 ■	Tuesday	- Christmas Day
December 28 -	V\fednesday	• Boxing Day
December 30 -	Friday	- New Year's Day
23
1996
June 30 • Friday • Floater July 3 - Monday ■ Canada Day
18.02	For all personnel, except injection, quality assurance, storekeeper and caretaker (when on twelve (12) hour shift! seven (7) day continuous operation) the above Company recognized holiday8 will be paid for regardless of when they fell. Employees shall receive pay od the basisof their straight time hourly rate for the number of hours they would have worked if the holiday had been a normal work day
18.03	For all personnel, except injection, quality assurance, storekeeper and caretaker, (when on twelve (12) hour shrftj seven (7)day continuousoperation) in the event of a pad holiday falling on a Saturday, Sunday or during the vacation period, another day will be declared in lieu of the holiday
18.04	Authorized work performed on a Company recognized holiday shall be paid for at two (2) times the basic straight finite hourly rate of the individual plus holiday pay, where applicable.
18.05	In the case of injection, quality assurance, storekeeper, and caretaker, (when on twelve (12) hour shift, seven (7) day Continuous operation), all Company recognized holidays have been traded off except Christmas Eve, Christmas, Boxing Day, and New Year's Day. The above mentionedpersonnelwill receive all Company recognized holidays, including the above named, when the injection department closes for Christmas holiday period
Work performed by the above personnel bn Company recognized holidayswill be at two (2)timesthe basicstraighttime hourly rate, plus Weekend Premiums if applicable. This will apply the day the company recognizes the holiday for the balance of the plant.
The above personnel at the time of the Christmas shutdown will be paid eight
24
(8) hours straight time holiday ,pay for each of the Company recognized holidays which have been included in their term of employment. Twelve (12) hour shift employees who actual worked on a Company recognized holiday will be paid twelve (12) hours hojliday pay instead of eight (8) on trade-off at Christmas
If an employee operating on tljj above schedule leaves the employ of the company for any reason he willj'receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for each of the Company recognizeHholidays, during the term of his employment, if the person has not already ffceived holiday pay for that day, and if he complied with the terms of Artic'lr 18.06.
Notwithstanding the above paragraph, if an employee was on the twelve (12) hour schedule and actually worked on a Company recognized holiday, that employee, when leaving the Company for any reason, will receive twelve (12) hours straight time pay for each of the Company recognized holidays they worked during the term of employment, if that person has not already received holiday pay for that day and if they comply with the terms of Article 18.06.
18.06	Employees shall not be eligible f|or Company recognized holiday pay if they:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
18.07
Have not completed tljeir probationary period.
While on lay-off refuse work by not exercising their bumping rights
or.refuse call-in work Having received at least twenty-four (24)hours prior nofice.	I
Fail to work or compL day immediately prioj, by the Company, accident, layoff, a ppr£
v j the regular scheduled shift on the working ij, and following the holiday, unless excused Lien employees are absent due to illness, T id vacation, or bereavement inthe immediate family, provided evidnJSe satisfactory to the Company is produced, ™ for any Company recognized holiday that „0ill not lose holiday pay by being late on the le holiday, as long as the lateness does not
then they shall be p arises. An employetj shift before or after n exceed one-half hour.
In any event, an emp^yee must have worked within the three (3) week period Immedia cy prior to !he holiday, as well as the shift on the day before the hcnay, except if on approved vacation, and as referred to in paragrffih (b) to qualify for Company recognized holiday pay.
Any regular working day that i is traded with a Premium Day by mutual
25
agreement between the Company anc) the Union, shall be treated as a standard day for all terms of this Collective Agreement
Any requestfor trade-off should be presented in writing to the Company by the Union Executive at leastthirty (30) calendar days, or shorter period by mutual agreement, priorto the requested change. Inthe eventthe Company requests trade-off, the same notice period shall apjrpty
ARTICLE 19 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
19.01 All employees who, on June 30th of any one year, have the number of years consecutive service outlined in the following schedule shall be entitled to the number of weeks vacation and the percentage of annual earnings applicable
thereto:		
Year# of Seniority on June 30th	Vacation Time	Percent of Annual Earnings
Up to three (3)months		4 %
Three (3)months but less than six (6) months	1 week	4 %
Six (6) months but less than five (5) years	2 weeks	4 %
Five (5) years but less than twelve (12) years	3 weeks	6 %
Twelve (12) years but less than twenty (20)years	4 weeks	8 %
Twenty (20)years and over	5 weeks	10%
Employees who are entitled to vacation period in excess of vacation plant shutdown shall have their remaining vacation at the time mutually agreed between the Company and the employee^ concerned.
Vacation time taken alter July 1st will be paid for in blocks of one (1) week
19.02	Total annual earnings for vacation pay computation shall include the employee's total earnings inthe preceding twelve (12) month period ending June 30th of the current vacation year.
Lost time from work, while receiving Workers' Compensation or Company Sick Benefit, shall be included in the Annual Earnings upon which vacation pay is
26
calculated, as if the employee has received his full regular pay during such absence.
19.03
19.04
Employees leavingthe Company” receive vacation pay on the bas previous co m putatio n date.
The Company at its discretion (normally during the two (2) weel employees will take their vacation Notice of such vacation shutdown vacation period.
employ prior to the vacation shutdown will s set out in 19.01 on earnings since the
ms i’
ly shut down the plant for vacation period 3 prior to Civic Holiday), at which time the if not required to work during this period. will be posted two (2) months prior to the
19.05	An employee who becomes seriojjsly disabled (e.g. requiring hospitalization) within three (3) weeks of the plant shutdown, and who is receiving Workers' Compensation or weekly indemnity benefits during the plant shutdown shall be entitled to take vacation at a laterjdate, as may be mutually agreed upon.
ARTICLE 20 ■ WAGES
the Union agrees to accept for fhetermof b classifications and wage rates as set out to and forms part of this Agreement.
There shall be weekly payment o| wages effective January 1, 1987,
20.02	In additionto the rates of pay listejd in Appendix "A", the Company will pay the following premiums:
Shift Premium
20.01 The Company agrees to pay and this Agreement, the schedule of jo in Appendix "A1 which is attached
(a) Injection, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper and Caretaker (when on shift F).
For hours worked frorrj 7 p.m. to 7 a.m., 6% of base rate per hour.
(b) All other Departmentsncluding above departments when on eight (8) hour shift scheduler.
Shift No. 1 - No PremiiJim
Shift No. 2 - 4% of baqe rate per hour
20.03
20.04
20.05
20.06
27
Shift No 3 • 6% of base rate per hour Week-End Premiums
injection, Quality Assurance, Strjireskeeper and Caretaker (when on shift F).
For hours worked from 7 a.m. Saturday to 7 a.m Sunday, 12% of base rate per hour.
For hours worked from 7 a.m. Sunday to 7 a.m. Monday, 20% of base rate per hour.
If schedules are started involving Saturday or Sunday as part of a regular schedule, other than the twelve (12) hour schedule as mentioned above, weekend premiums will be negotiated. If agreement is not reached within sixty (60) days, voluntary binding arbitrationwill be Invoked.
An employee temporarily transferred to anptherjobfor a periodof fourteen (14) working days or less will receive the rate (jf the job to which the employee is transferred or the rate of the previously t|eld jcb. whichever is higher. This fourteen (14) day period may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the employee. An employee transferred in lieu of layoff or ^ their own request will receive the rate of the job to which the employee is transferred.
It is agreed that the Company has the option to apply rates above the scheduled hiring rates when persons hir^d have previous experience either with this Company or elsewhere.
There shall be no pyramiding of any prerrjium or overtime payment with any other premium or overtime payment.
Overtime will be calculated on base rates only, shift premiums or other premiums will then be added.
An employee suffering an injury in the course of their employment who is required to leave the plant premises, will be paid to the end of their regular shift.
The Company reserves the right to investigate all reported injurieson Company premises, and if through medical investigation it isfoundthatthe employee was not required to leave the plant premises at the time of the injury, then the
28
employee will not be paid as provided above.
20.07	In addition to the rates outlined in Appendix "A", a Cost of Living Allowance (C.O.L.A.) of .65 of the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index (C.P.I. 1971 = 100) as published by Statistics Canada for each full .5 increase in the C.P.I. will be calculated based on an employee's rate of pay as set out in "Wage Appendix" and will become payable as follows:
COLA adjustmentto commence January 1994 beginning with the first full pay period after the publication of the December 1993 C.P.I. and based on the increase in C.P.I. for Decemberl 1993 and such adjustments shall continue according to the formula to and including the first lull pay period after the publication of the August 1994 C.P.I. The maximum payment under this paragraphwill be 3% of an employee’s hourly rate during this term. Thereafter the COLA adjustment will be paid as a 'lloat' and will not be subject to downward adjustment.	I
COLA adjustments to recommerii pay period afterthe publicationof increase in C.P.I. for September according to the formula to and publicationof the August 1995 paragraphwill be 4% of an empl
In the case of decreases in the same formula as increases are
ice October 1994 beginning with the first full the September 1994 C.P.I. and basedonthe 1994 and such adjustments shall continue including the first full pay period after the C.P.I. The maximum payment under this loyee’s hourly rate during this term.
P.l. the COLA, if any, will be reduced on the Calculated.
Hoursgrantedfor Company recognized holidayswill be considered as worked hours for the purpose of this clause.
At September 20,1995, the COLA will then be folded into the base rate.
20.08	A payment of five ($5.00) dollars will be made to each certified First Aid Attendant at the end of each calendar quarter.
ARTICLE 21 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
21.02	This Article defines the Norinm hours of work and provides the basis for calculating overtime. It shall n°|pe construed as a guarantee of hours per day or per week or days of work P%week or as a restriction on the scheduling of a longer or shorter day or 'rork week whenever, in the opinion of the Company, it is necessary to i^fet business requirements.
21.02	The following shall be the standard shifts of the Company:
29
A
B
C
0
One (1) shift per day.
Shift Times:	8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon
12:30 p,m. to 4:30 p.m.
Rest Periods:	Two (2) fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid)
Lunch Period:	One (1) thirty (30) minute per (unpaid)
Two (2) shifts per day in a service department.
Shift Times: Shift 1 -	8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon
12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m,
Shift 2	3:00 p.m, to 7:00 p.m.
7:30 p.m, to 11:00 p.m.
Rest Periods:	Two (2) fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid)
Lunch Period:	One (1) thirty (30) minute per shift
(unpaid on day shift, paid on afternoon shift)
Two (2) shills per day in a production department not requiring continuous operation during rest and lunch periods.
Shift Times: Shift 1 Shift 2
7:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m, 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m,
3:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. 8:00 p.m. to 11:30 p.m,
Rest Period:	Two (2) fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid)
Lunch Period:	One (1) thirty (30) minute per shift
(unpaid on day shift. paid on afternoon shift)
Two (2) shifts per day in a production department requiring continuous machine operation during restand lunch periods.
Shift Times: Shift 1 Shift 2
7:00 a.m, to 3:00 p.m 3:00 p.m, to 11:00 p.m
30
Rest Periods: Lunch Period:
Shift 1 ■	variations:
6:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. One (1) fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid)
One (1) thirty (30)minute per shift (paid)
E.	Three (3)shifts per day Shift Times: Shift 1 -
Shift 2 ■
Shift 3 ■
Rest Periods:	One (1) fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid)
Lunch Period:	One (1) thirty (30) minute per shift
(paid)
F.	Twelve (12) hours per] day and thirty-six (36) hours per week, when three (3) shifts fall between 7 a.m. Sunday and 7 a.m. the following Sunday or it will be twelve (12) hours per day and forty-eight (48) hours per week whenlfeur (4) shifts fall between7 a.m. Sunday and 7 a.m. the following' Sunday all in accordance with the printed schedule.
Shift Times: Day -	7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
Night-	7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Rest Periods:	One (1) fifteen (15) minute per shift (paid)
Lunch Periods:	Two (2)thirty (30) minute per shift
(paid)
7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Note 1:
The liming of the rest periods ip all departments are to be scheduled by the Company. An employee will normally take his first break no earlier than 1 1/2
31
hour and no later than 3 hours into his shift.
Note 2:
The present schedules are as follows:
A or B	Plant Services, Materials Handling excluding Storeskeeper
and Caretakers
C	Not presently used
D	Plating
E	Injection. Compression,	Finishing, Quality Assurance,
Storeskeeper and Caretakers
The Company reserves the right to alter any or all of the above schedules by advising the employees in the department or Jobclassificatlon concerned and the Union ^ least seven (7) working days prior to the above shift schedules, unless a shorter period is mutuallyagreefible to the partiesto this Agreement.
The shift schedules as set out in Article! 21 may not be changed without a consultation meeting between management and the Union to discuss alternatives.
Where more than one shift in a department is outlined in this Agreement, Shift 2 and Shift 3 will be filled on a rotation basis if volunteers are not available. Rotations will not be longer than two (2) week intervals.
A new shift starting after 9 p.m. or ending before 8 am. shall include a paid thirty (30) minute lunch break.
Note 3:
Notwithstandingthe above for the ife of this Collective Agreement, except by negotiation:
(*) Injection, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper, andCaretakers who are in the Company's empjloy as of July 17,1978 will not be requested to work on , a schedule that includes Saturday or Sunday as part of a regular schedule, other than the standard F shift as defined in this Agreement.
(b)	In all other departments, any personnel who are in the Company's employ as of July 17, 1978, will not be requested to work on a schedule that includes Saturday or Sunday as part of a regular schedule.
32
21.03
21.04
21.05
Overtime hours are those worked in excess of the standard daily or weekly hours as listed in this Article. Hpwever, for the purpose of this Article only, overtime hours for Injection, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper and Caretaker will be defined as those hours in ^xcess of thirty-six (36) hours per week when three (3)shifts fall between 7 a.m. Sunday and 7 a.m. the following Sunday, or forty (40) hours per week when fqur (4) shiftsfall between 7 a.m. Sunday and 7 a.m. the following Sunday.
Overtime will be paid at the rate £f time and one half (1 1/2) the employee's regular rate for time worked in excess of regular weekly hours up to and including four (4) hours, except in the case of Sunday or Company recognized holiday where double time will apply. Time worked over four (4) hours in excess of regular weekly hours will be paid at two (2) times the employee's regular rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the standard weekly hours must be worked subject to the provisions of 21.05.
Should an employee fail to complete his standard work week and that failure is not occasioned by the provisions of 21.05, then, the above overtime hours, beginning with those overtime hours in excess of four (4), shall be forfeited to make up the hours of the standard work week and the hoursso forfeited shall be payable at the employee's regular rate.
For the purpose of thi^ Article Sunday shall be:
Injection, Quality Assurance, Storeskeeper and Caretaker From 7 a.m. Sunday to 7 a.m. Monday
All other departments
From 11 p.m.{Saturday to 11 p.m. Sunday
Notwithstandingthe provisions 3121.04 above, it is agreed that if an employee works in excess of their stantmd daily hours in any one (1) day and is subsequently prevented from completing his standard work week overtime will be paid if that failure to completeis occasioned by:
(a) Company layoff; i
<b) illness, provided that tPe Company shall have the right to require validation of such illndfS;
(c)	absence for work for frasonable cause;
(d)	a Company recognizIP holiday;
(e)	with prior permission Of Company;
<»)	lateness up to one (1) hour.
21.06
21.07
21.08
21.09
21.10 21.11
21.12
21.13
21.14
33
Employees are expected to cooperate and perform overtime work when requested to do so by the Company. However, no employee will be penalized if overtime is refused.
The Company will endeavour to distribute overtime as fairly as possible.
The Company will endeavourto provide employees with at leastforty-eight (48) hours notice before scheduling overtime hours.
V\hen overtime extends two (2) hours or more beyond a regular shift, and overtime notice is not given priorto the current shift, a Meal Allowance of $6.00 will be paid to effected employees. The Same Meal Allowance will be made to an employee who has been contacted prior to their shift and asked to come to work three (3)hours or more earlier than their regular starting time.
Employees are requiredto contactthe Personnel Office or their shift supervisor before the start of their regularshtft, if th^y do not expect to report to work, or ± the latest within one (1) hour after thei start of their regular shift.
if an employee is sent home between midnight and 6 a.m. and does not have private transportation available, the Company will pay taxi fare to the employee's home.
For overtime work on production machine operations, overtime operators shall be permitted to change machines the end of the regular daily shift provided that request Is made prior to shift charfge and the operator is qualified to operate the alternate machine.
In cases of overtime as an extension of a normal work day, a paid fifteen (15) minute break will be provided at the beginning of the overtime and it the beginning of each two (2) hours worked thereafter,
If an employee is reassigned from the dhfft he would otherwise have been working onto a different shift the Company shall give seven (7) calendar days notice. This does not app^r to change^ resulting from switches with other employees, overtime, normal shift rotatiorfs, call-Sd, layoff, a change agreed to by the employee or emergencies which w)ll critically afet the operation of the department Involved,
Principles of Training Participation and Pay for Training
1-	Training is a shared responsibility between the Company and
34
employee and both parties benefit from the training
2.	Participation intrainingloutside of normal working hours is voluntary.
Company Initiated Training '
3.
An employee involved in training will be paid at the employee's regular hourly rate. Shift premiums will apply if the training occurs during the employee's normal "B" or “C" shift.
Training providedfbr 8 scheduled in the follow
nployees withinthe plant or in Midlandwill be 'Ing order of preference:
a)	during regular 4hift
b)	within forty (40A hours per week
c)	over forty (40) hours per week
In all cases pay for Company initiated training shall be at straight time and time spent id training will not be considered time worked for overtime calculation providing that the combined hours spent in training and hours worked do not exceed forty-six (46) hours total in any one (1) week. H the event that such combined hours exceed forty-six(46) hours normal overtime rates will apply to hours in excess of forty-six (46) hours
6.	Where Companysportisored trainingtakes placeoutside Midland(ie. Barrie, Toronto, Detroit, etc.) an employee may be requiredto travel on their own time. If such training takes place over a continuous number of days, the employee will normally be paid for eight (8) hours per day regardtess of whether the training is longer or shorter than eight (8) hours per day.
Employee Initiated Courses j
7.	V\friere an employee jhitiates participation in a course with potential work related benefit?** also for their own personal upgrading and advancement, the employee will be advanced funds for tuition and books up front. Tthe employee shows proof of successful completion, the adjrnce will be forgiven. If the course is not successfully compte jjp, 50% of the advance will be forgiven and the other 50% will be rehaid to the Company.
Time spent in the employee initiated courses will not be paid. In
35
orderto beentitledforreimbursementtheremustbe advancewritten approval by the Personnel Department. Determination of whether the course has work-related benefit will be the sole judgment of the Personnel Department.
ARTICLE 22 • EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
22.01	All full-time employees who qualify under the terms of the underwriters contracts shall become eligible for Company paid benefits on the first day following the expiration of their probationary period.
22.02	The Company will provide and pay the fyll cost of the following employee benefits for all eligible employees and eligible dependents as "defined in the agreements or contracts between the Company and the Contract Holders. In the case of premium cost reduction on any Company paid benefits, the Company will receive the benefit of the decrease.
22.03	Schedule of Company paid benefits:
(a)	London We Healthcare (formerly 1982 Blue Cross) including semiprivate hospitaland a one dollar (^1.00) deductible prescription drug provision (or equivalentcoveragelwlth another insurer), and including a $100,00 per person annual Chiropractic benefit in insurer's standard terms.
(b)	London Life Dental Plan fixed at
1990 ODA (or equivalent coverage with another insurer)
(c)	Group Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment (A.D. and D, Plan) to a maximum of
$22,500.00
(d)	Sickness and Accidental Benefit
(I) For compensable accident^ the employee will receive normal wages for remainder of shift on day of accident.
(N) c am if non-compen$able disability or sickness, the insuring Company, upon verification of continuous disability or illness, will reimburse the employee 86-2/3% of their basic rate of pay, beginning on the 1st day of accident or hospitalization, the 4th day of sickness, continuing to the end
36
of the 26th week. The three (3) day waiting period lor the sickness benefit will be waived if the sickness lasts two (2) calendar weeks or more.
<e) One thousand ($1,00d),00) dollars, paid up Life Insurance upon retirement (age 60, effective September 20, 1992) providing the retiring employee has at least fifteen (15) years (effective September 20, 1992) continuous service with the Company.
(f)	The Company will paylfire and theft insurance on employee owned
tools while on the Company premises. Coverage will be limited to the deductible and maximum ratesandthe scheduling requirements.
22.04 The Company provides a 'Contributory* Pension Plan for all eligible employees. Pension benefits will be based upon future service contributions only. All bargaining unit employees effected by this agreement who have one (1) year of seniority or more mupt join the Pension Plan.
Pension benefits will be $23.0§ per month per year of service for the period January 1,1991 to December^}] 1995 with an employee contribution of $17.00 per month (based on time wonted).
22.05 Benefits (excluding Pension) ‘'fverage during sickness, and injury: During periods of certified sick leave, {Hfe Company will pay the foil cost of benefitsfor eligible employees for a mirtfflum of two (2) full calendar months and a maximum of two (2) months orrenefits for each year of service to a maximum of twelve (12) months.
Benefits during periodof approved leave of absence will be continued fir thirty (30) calendar days only. I
Benefits during periods of condensable injury will be paid by the Company.
Notwithstanding all circumstances above, extension or continuation of benefit coverage shall be subject to thp terms and conditions of the Contract Holder.
22.06	Employees should contact the Personnel Office to obtain the necessary applicationformsfor Sicknessfnd Illness Benefits. The Personnel Department will furnish, if necessary, claimnfsplication formsfor any other employee benefit.
22.07	Benefits will terminate for empjoyees who are laid off at the end of the month following the month of layoff. (Benefitswill recommence at the date of rehire.
37
hthe case of Healthcareand Dental benefits, these may be carried through the Company on a pay direct basis. for the duration of layoff, for a one (1) year period only.
Premiums for these benefits will be the responsibility of the employee, who must make the appropriate arrangements through the Personnel Office. Premiums for the month In which a rehlfe occurs will be shared by the Company and the employee, pro-rated according to the number of days the employee was actually employed during the month of recall.
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
23.01	The Company agrees to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during their working hburs, and the Union agrees to cooperate in the observance of safety rules and regulations of the Company.
The Company agrees that the Safety Committee will meet monthly. A minimum of one (1) Union representatbefrom each plant and one (1) Management representative shall be certified members.
23.02	Employees with one (1) year's seniority or more who are required to wear safety footwear will be allowed a subsidy of a maximum of two (2)pair of safety shoes in any one (1) year period as follows:
The Companywlll pay the 100% CjDSt of the first pairof safety shoes up to a maximum of sixty ($60.00)dollars, and the cost of a second pair up to a maximum of thirty ($30.00) dollars or 50% of the purchase price, whichever is the lesser,
The Company will provide one (1) pair Of prescription safety glasses peryear, where required, to each Employee. Designand supplier to be designated by the Company.
ARTICLE 24 • NOTIFICATION
24.02	Except as otherwise provided, any notices ^vhlch either party desires to give the other shall be given by registered mail.
(a)	To the Company:
Waltec Plastics Division of Emco Limited
38
320 Elizabeth Street MIDLAND, Ontario L4R 4L6
(b)	To the Union:
Ontario Joint cjouncil Office AC.T.W.U.
15 Gervais Drive Suite 700
DON MILLS, Ontario M3C 1Y8 i
(c)	To the President, A.C.T.W.U., Local 1476
Currently ,
MIDLAND, On arb
ARTICLE 25 • DURATION AND TERMINATION
This Agreement shall be considered effective from September 20,1993to-the I---------~	—fnclusffifc and shalt automaJEaliy continue thereafter
for annual periods of one (1) Year each, unless either party notifies the other in writing within the period °n ninety (90) calendar days before the date of expiry that it desires to ametP or terminate the Agreement, and negotiations shall start within fifteen (IS^fendar days following such notification,
25.02	If the parties enter into n$ratiations for the purpose of amending this Agreement and agreement tdfnfe renewal of amendment of this Agreement is not reached prior to the nornfflferminationdate hereof, the termination of this Agreement shall be automdr^liy extended until consummation of a new Agreement or completion oftHl Conciliation proceedings prescribedunderthe Labour Relations Act, 1980 pt the Province of Ontario, and fourteen (14) calendar days following issuance of the Conciliation Boards report thereunder (if any), whichever should occur first.
39
This instrument and the exhibits attached hereto and made part hereof constitute the entire agreement between the parties.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has causedthis Agreement
to be signed by their duly authorized representatives as of this________
day of_____________________________, 19 .
FOR WALTEC PLASTICS DIVISION OF EMCO LIMITED.
J. Desjardins, Personnel Manager
D. Webster, Financial Manager/ Production Manager
H. DeJong, Director of H.R. EMCO Custom Products
A.	Mudde, President
B.	Phelps, Counsel
FOR AMALGAMATED CLOTHING* TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, AFL-CIO, CLC, LOCAL 1478
R. Murphy, gi Member
J. Ryan, Financial Secretary
J, Quesnelle, Sergeant At Arms
P. Valllancourt, Vice President
D. Maloney, President
FOR THE ONTARIO JOINT COgNCIL, A.C.T.W.U., AFL-CIO, CLC
B J. Cardy, Regional Representative
WAGE APPENDIX
41
The wage progressionfor persons hired after September 19,1988, as a% of the top rate for each classification, shall be:
on hiring ■	90%
3 months ■	94%
6 months ■ 97%
9 months • 100%
The starting rate for an employee who has changed classifications shall be the 6 month rate except where the employee had previously attained the top rate for that classification.
42
APPENDIX "A" WAGE SCHEDULE
SEPTEMBER 20, 1993 TO SEPTEMBER 19, 1995
	HIRING	3 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	9 MONTHS
| COMPRESSION				
Compression Operator	■jl .20	11.70	12.07	12.43
Tech. Grade 3	^1.67	12.19	12.58	12.96
Tedtn. Grade 2	12.64	13.20	13.62	14.04
Tech Grade 1	13 fift	14.29	14.75	15.22
Lead Hand				15.78
Co-Ordinator				16.90
FINISHING				
Finisher	10.88	11.37	11.73	12.09
Caretaker	11.02	11.51	11.88	12.24
Silkscreener	jl .12	11.61	11.98	12.35
Tech. Grade 3	j 1.61	12.13	12.52	12.90
Tech. Grade 2	G 03	12.56	12.96	13.36
43
	HIRING	3 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	9 MONTHS
Tech. Grade 1	13.68	14.29	14.75	15.22
Lead Hand				15.78
MATERIAL HANDLING				
Stockhandler	11.45	11.96	12.34	12.69
Stockhandler LeadHand				13.16
Co-Ordiriator				14.38
PLANT SERVICES				
Caretaker	11.02	11.51	11.88	12,24
Head Caretaker	11.49	12.00	12,39	12.78
Maintenance Assistant	11.20	11.68	12.07	12.43
Tech. Grade 3	12,05	12.58	12.98	13.38
Tech. Grade 2	12.83	13.40	13.82	14.25
Tech. Grade 1	14,54	15.19	15.68	16,16
Electric Specialist	14,54	15.19	15,68	16.16
Maint. LeadHand				16.71
Maint. Co-ordinator				18.40
Toolmaker Assistant	12.02	12.55	12,95	13.35
Toolmaker Grade 4	1325	13,84	14.28	14.74
Toolmaker Grade 3	14.23	14.87	15.35	15.82
Toolmaker Grade 2	15,13	15.80	16.31	16.81
Toolmaker Grade 1	15,94	16,65	17.18	17.71
Toolmaker Leadhand				18.27
Toolmaker Co-ordinator				19.40
PLATING				
Racker	10.89	11.37	11.73	12.10 |
Tech. Grade 3	11.61	12.13	12.52	12.90
I Tech. Grade 2	12.03	12.56	12.96	13.36 I
44
	HIRING i		3 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	9 MONTHS
Tech. Grade 1		12.89	13.46	13.89	14.32
Lab Technician		12.89	13.46	13.89	14.32
Plating Co-Ordinator					15.79
QUALITY ASSURANCE					
Q.A. Operator		11.08	11.57	11.94	12.31 12.57
Inspector Assistant		11.31	11,81	12.19	
Inspector Grade 2		2.44	12.99		13.40 13.84	13.82
Inspector Grade 1		2.84 t 13.41			14.27
Lead Hand		1			14.83
Note 1: Length of service for appointment to their Company. Persons in in each grade accordi reclassification. Employees transferrec of the classification up Note 2: Technicians, Toolmak< covered by a depart ($0.50) cents per ho supervisor responsibil Note 3: A stock handler drivi twenty-five (25) kilom above their schedule Note 4: Employee's writing ex the time prescribed fo		Technicians and Toolmakers is dated from classification and not length of service with these categories must spend minimum of time ig to the requirements before being tested for 1 in a technical position will receive the top rate on successfully completing their exams. rrs or other persons, will, while on a shift not nent supervisor or lead hand, receive fifty pr above their schedule rates, if assigned ty on that shift. ig a single axle truck beyond a radius of itres from Midland will receive 5% premium ate for those hours. ims shall be paid straight time hourly rate for the test which will be after or before regular			
hours.
Note 5:	Spray painters, while Rearing pressurizedpaintingsuits, will receive
fifty ($0.50) cents per (hour premium above the schedule rates for that shift
APPENDIX "B" LETTER OF INTENT
45
h the event of termination resulting from a plant closure or relocation or a permanent closure of a department, an employee who has completed more than three (3) years of service and who is terminated, will receive a separation allowance based on his/her regular hourly rate as follows:
One (1) week of pay per year of service up to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks. Payment will be made within thirty (30) days unless otherwise agreed.
The Employment Standards Act. as updated from time to time, shall be used to determine the conditions and restrictions, except as referred to in this letter.
46
APPENDIX "C"
INJECTION DEPARTM
The technicians, on a voluntary
conditions:
ENT - WEEK-END SHIFTS
basis, work weekends under the following
3 p.m. Friday 11 a m. Saturday 11 a.m. Sunday
11
11
11
p.m
p.m
p.m
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
8 hours 12 hours 12 hours
2.
3.
4.
5.	or
rjie.
Conditions of work for operator^:
1.	When two (2) twelve (12) hodr shifts are worked they shall be as follows: "A Shift"
11pm Friday	11 am Saturday	12 hours
11 p.m. Saturday 11 a.m Sunday	12 hours
47
"B Shift"
11 a.m. Saturday 11 p.m. Saturday , 12 hours 11 a.m. Sunday	11 p.m. Sunday	12 hours
2.	The work week for employees who have seniority on a regular forty (40) hour shift, employed on these week-end shifts, will be thirty-two (32) hours consisting of two (2) twelve (12) hour weekend shifts and one (1) eight (8) hour shift. The eight (8) hour shift will be one (1) of the regular forty (40) hour shifts as determined by management on a call-in basis. During this shift the employee will work as an operator or any other reasonable required work.
3.	The work week for employeeswho do not have seniority on a regularforty (40) hour shift, employed on these weekend shifts will be twenty-four (24) hours consisting of two (2)tweive (12) hourweekend shifts, or sixteen (16) hours. consisting of two (2) eight (8) hour shifts.
4.	The operators are paid at their regular rates with a 6% night shift premium for "A" shift and at a 2% premium for "B“ shift (no Saturday or Sunday rates will be applicable), and regular shift rates for the shift worked during the week.
5.	An employee who is switching from any other shift to the weekend shift shall have at least twelve (12) hours off between the end of work on the other shift to the start of work on the weekend shift and the Company may assign employees to start at either 11 p.m. or 11 .a.m. If the employee has not had at least twelve (12) hours off, he shall be paid at the overtime rate until twelve (12) hours have elapsed except where the employee so requests.
General
1.	On each twelve (12) hour shift there will be:
-	one (1) fifteen (15) minute rest period (paid)
-	two (2) thirty (30) minute lunch periods (paid)
2.	For purposes <£ building up seniority, each eight (8) hours worked will count as one (1) day, provided at least twenty-four (24) hours are worked on the weekend.
3.	Company recognized holidays, if eligible under the provisions of the contract, will be paid at eight (8) hours.
48
4.	Each shift will noimally consist of one (1) technician, Grade 1 or 2, plus three (3) operators running pur (4) machines.
49
REQUESTS FOR VACATIONS
Requests for the 3rd. 4th, 5th week of vacation will be handled through the employee's Supervisor as follows, if mutual consent between parties cannot be reached:
1.	The Company may determine the number of employees who may be away from any classificatton/department at any one time.
2.	Prior to April 1 st, seniority will determine the vacation priority
3.	After March 31st, vacation priority will be determined on a first come basis.
In all cases acknowledgment of vacation requests will be given within five (5) working days.
AGREEMENT ON POLICY
Policy for pay cheques:
(a)	Shortage in wages will be corrected by issuing another cheque or if the amount is small, immediately advancing the estimated "NET PAY out of Petty Cash funds. Any advance will be deducted from the next week's cheque, at which time the shortage will also be corrected.
(b)	Regular pay cheques for 3-11 and 11 -7 shifts will be distributed on the Wednesday shift, the remainder of the employees will receive their pay cheque on their Thursday shift. If Monday is a holiday, all employees will be paid during their shift commencing on Thursday.
AGREEMENT ON POLICY Re: Benefit Admlnletratlon
There will be a Joint Benefits Committee. Management Representatives shall meet with the Union Representatives as required to discuss issues arising out of administration of the benefit plans.
50
LETTER OF AGREEMENT Re: Spray Painting
For the term ot this Agreement, to department, an employee must satisfactorily perform in that depart
be entitled to bump into the Spray Painting Have previously demonstrated his ability to ment.
The Company shall notify empl demonstrate their ability provided months before a layoff notice. New six (6) months of employment.
oyees that they have an opportunity to that they have signed up prior to four (4) employees shall have such opportunity after
The employee shall be paid at Sstraight time rates for time spent in such demonstration provided that if sucfi time is outside of his regular working hours it shall not be deemed to be Hours worked for the purpose of overtime calculation.
The operation of this letter shall b^ reviewed every six (6) months.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: ARTICLE 12.07
The Union acknowledges that the Company may require a medical examination by a Company approved Doctor or Doctor of Chiropracticon hiring or transfers between departments.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: PAY FOR UNION REPRESENTATIVES
The appropriate Union Representatives will be paidfor regular scheduled working hours lost on the following business:
1.	For negotiating meetings with managementto a maximum of eight
(8) hours per day.
2.
For grievance or discipline meetings as in Article 6.06, and for all other meetings called by management.
If such a meeting takes place outjside an employee's normal working hours he shall be paid at straight time raters but that time shall not be counted as hours worked.
51
LETTER OF INTENTION RE: HEALTH & SAFETY
The parties agree that one (1) Union and one (1) Company Health and Safety representative shall do a safely inspection^ all departments each month.
EARLY RETIREE HEALTHCARE COVERAGE
An employee who retires early after at least fifteen (15) years service and age 60 shall be entitled to participate in the Company Healthcare Plan at their expense to age 65.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
The parties hereby agree to jointly explore models of pay fcr skills. The purpose is to assess possible ways of more appropriately encouraging and rewarding individual initiative and effort.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
The parties hereby agree to jointly work on a system for annual employee reviews. The purpose is to ensure that individuals are properly classified, feedback is given and individual future training and development is considered.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT Re: O.H.I.P.
If duringthe lie of this Collective Agreement, the Ontario Government repeals the Employer HealthTax and enacts legislation permittingemployers and employees to share the cost of health insurance premiums, it is agreed that the Company will pay the full cost of such premiums necessary to maintain the basic level of health insurance provided as of 1993 by the Employer Health Tax.
52
LETTER OF ^GREEMENT Re: Mllitury Service
If an employee is conscripted to a^ive Canadian Military service the employee will retain existing seniority for a fJPliod up to, but not exceeding the seniority before entering active military serVi§e. Upon release from military service, the Company will provide, to an employee who retains seniority, an employment opportunity if:
1.	A job similar to the one vacated on conscription presently filled by a lesser seniority employee exists.
2.	The employee is able and willing to perform the job.