No. Of <MPiOYIi$	
nomors O-tMPtOtfj	
COLLECTIVE AC REEMENT
Between:
WALTEC PLASTI S INC.
And:
UNION OF NEEDLF.TRADF.S, INDUSTRY CI.C, AFL-CIO AND I
. ANDTEXTILE EMPLOYEES ICAL M76
EFFECTIVE D/ 'ES SEPTEMBER 2( 1998 to
SEPTEMBER IF 1000

O01 (olot,
WALTEC.fLASTICS.lNC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE I • GENERAL PURPOSE.............................I
Al< IICI I: 2 - RECOGNI HON ANI) COVERAGE................2
ARIIC1E 3 • MANAGEMENT RIGHTS .......................... 2
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF.................3
ARl'lCl.E 5-DISCRIMINATION ANI) INTIMIDATION ............4
ARTICLE 6 • (INION REPRESENTATION........................5
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE: PROCEDURE ........................6
ARTICLE. 8 ■ ARBITRATION.................................a
article: 9-discharge:....................................9
AR IICI E 10 - STRIKES. LOCKOUTS ANI) SLOWDOWNS ........10
article: i i.seniority..................................10
ARTICLE 12-TRANSFERS ANI) JOB POSTINGS..................12
ARTICLE 13-LAYOFFS AND RECALLS ..........................K
ARTICLE 14-LEAVE OF ABSENCE..............................H
ARTICLE 15 - NOTICES AND ANNOUNCEMENTS..............    23
ARTICLE 16-REPORTING ALLOWANCE..........................22
ARTICLE: 17 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE..................... 23
ARTICLE 18 - COMPANY RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS ...............25
ARTICLE 19 - VACATIONS WITH PAY.........................28
ARTICLE 20 - WAGES ...................................  29
ARTICLE 21 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME ................32
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
39
AK1 ICI.I. 23 - SAFli'l Y ANI) HEALTH...................41
ARTICLE 24 - NOIIFICATION ..............................42
ARTICLE 25 - DIJRA’I ION ANI) TERMINATION...............43
WAGE APPENDIX...........................................46
APPENDIX "A"
WAGE SCHEDULE..................................... 47
APPENDIX "B"
WAGE SCHEDULE......................................50
APPENDIX “C”
LETIER OF INTENT...................................54
APPENDIX "Dn
INJECTION DEPARTMENT - WEEK-END SHIF TS............55
REQUESTS FOR VACATIONS .................................58
AGREEMENT ON POLICY ....................................58
LETTER OF AGREEMENT.....................................59
LETI ER OF UNDERSTANDING................................59
1 MIS A(!K1 I M I NI entered into at Midland, Ontario, as of the 20th day of September, 1998
BY AND BETWEEN:
WALTEC PLASTICS INC.
located in Midland, Ontario (hercinalter referred to as “theCompany”)
AND:
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIA4 AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES CLC, AFL-CIO AND LOCAL 1476
(hereinafter referred to as “theUnion")
ARTICLE 1 • GENERAL PURPOSE
1.01	It a the intent and purpose of this Agreement to assure sound and mutually beneficial industrial and economic relationships between parties hereto, to provide an orderly and peaceful means of conducting negotiations and resolving any misunderstanding or grievances, and to set forth herein the basic and full agreement between the parties covering rates of pay, wages, hours of work and other conditions of employment.
1.02	Ihe parties agree that neither employees nof employer should endeavour to limit the production of an individual, and that only in the progressively more profitable operation cf theCompany can the employees basically secure greater earnings and security.
1.03	'Ihe parties agree that the above objectives qan be better achieved by compliance at all times with the terms and conditions cjf this Agreement and by the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances.
RECQGN__ON AND COVERAGE
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union during the terms of this Agreement as the sole collective bargaining agent for alll employees of Waltec I’laslics Inc., Midland, Ontario, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff, security guards, students employed during the school year for not more than twenty (20) hours a week, and homeworkers.
Work normally performed by Bargaining Unit employees shall not be done by employees outside the HargaininglUnit, except for students as defined above.
2.02	The word "employee" or "employees" wherever used in this Agreement shall mean any or all of the employees in the Bargaining Unit as defined above except where the context otherwise provides.
2.03	Where the masculine pronoun isj used herein, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context applies.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to manage the business and direct lhe|working force, including but not limited to the following:
(»)	To	maintain order and e
formulate reasonable t safety regulations.
(b)	To	hire, layoff, classi
discharge or demote lot to submit a grievance in
(«)	'lo	schedule and change
assignments, to decide e
<d)	I o	manage the industrit
determining the produt manufactured, the meth
lieiency, and set quality standards, enforce and ant rules und regulations, including lire and
y, transfer, promote or discipline, suspend, ust cause. Subject to the right of the employee ihe case of discipline, suspension or discharge.
hours of work, to determine and change work nployee qualifications, arid to discontinue jobs.
enterprises in which the Company is engaged, s and materials to be handled, processed and ds ofmanufacturing, the schedules, extension
2
and limitations of operations, the kinds, numbers and location of plants, machines and equipment to be used, the processes o f manufacturing and the nature of its products.
(c) The Union acknowledgesthat the Company has and shall retain the sole right and responsibility to subcontract work as long as the action of subcontracting does not mean that present employees will be laid off
(0 The Company agrees that the above functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Agreement and the Collective Bargaining Rights ofthe Union.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
4.01	All new employees shall, as a condition of employment, pay a Local Union initiation fee. I his initiation fee shall be the first two hours pay of the new employee and shall be remitted to the financial Secretary of the Local.
An employee who has been rehired shall not be required to pay a new initiation fee unless he has been out ofthe employ ofthe Company for more than two (2) years.
All employees upon completion of their probationary period shall, as a condition of employment, pay union dues, or an amount equivalent to union dues, which will be the amount prescribed by the Constitution ofthe Union, the first such payments to he considered the International Union initiation fee.
These dues or the equivalent shall be deducted from the second pay period of each month and the amounts so deducted shall be remitted monthly by cheque to the Ontario Joint Council, 15 Gervais Drive, Suite 700, Don Mills, Ontario, M3C IY8, whose receipt thereof shall be considered as a discharge to the Company for the amount so deducted.
4.02	Employees who are, or who during the term of this Agreement become members ofthe Union shall, as a condition ofcontinued employment with the Company, remain members in good standing ofthe Union.
3
4.03	The Company will, at the time of making the original remittance to (he Union, specify the employees' names fror. whose pay such deductions were made. For subsequent remittance the Comp ny will supply the Union with a statement showing the name o feach perma ent employee from whom no deduction was made and the reasons thereof.
4.04	The Union shall indemnify ands ive the Company harmless from any claims, suits, judgements, attachments, an from any form of liability as a result of such deductions.
ARTICLE 5 - DISCRIMINATION AND NTIM1DAT1QN
5.01	It is agreed that there will be nod scriminalion, coercion or intimidation by the Company, the Management, the Inion or its officers or members against any employee because of his activii /, or lack of activity, membership or non membership in any political, labt jr or Union organization or because of race, creed, colour, age, sex, marital sta us, nationality, ancestry or place of origin.
5.02	It is further agreed that there shal be no solicitation of members, collection of dues or other Union activities on th 1 premises ofthe Company except as permitted by this Agreement. It is understoo I that no meeting of the Union or its members shall be held on the premises o f thi Company, nor shall any o f its activities be s o held at any time without prior written approval ofthe Company.
5.03	The Union agrees that under no ‘f'rcumslanccs will contractual or supervisory maintenance personnel, to a maxidWm of lour (4), or contractual security guards, to a maximum of four (4), beprevfnled from having free and unmolested entrance to, and departure from the plant, l‘r the purpose of performing their duties. I he Company agrees that under nocirrMinslanees will the above-mentioned personnel perform production work.
5.04	It is further agreed that any employee who violates any ofthe provisions of this Article may be disciplined by the Company.
4
ARTICLE 6 - UNION REPRESENTATION
6.01	The Company recognises the right of the Union to elect, appoint, or otherwise selecl a Bargaining Committee of not more than five (5) members of the local Union, who have at least one (I) year's service with the Company. This Committee will he (he Bargaining Committee for negotiations.
flic l Inion Executive will act as a Grievance Committee. A maximum of live (5) will act as a Grievance Committee.
6.02	The Union will elect or appoint and the Company will recognize the number of Shop Stewards from each of the following department groups as indicated:
(a)	Compression	- three(3)
(b)	finishing	- one (1) Per Shift
(c)	Injection	- three (3) Per Plant
(d)	Materials Handling	- one (1) Per Plant
<e)	Plant Services	-	one (1) -1 leritage Plant -	two (2) • Crown Plant
(O	Quality Assurance	- one(1)
In the event that a departure reduces the number of shills worked, the departmental Union Steward of the shill eliminated will be considered as having the most seniority, subject to Article I3.0S, while remaining in the department as a Union Steward (not to exceed the present elected term).
6.03	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the Union Stewards and the departments or group of departments each represents, and of any changes in the personnel of the Union Stewards before the Company shall be required to recognize them.
6.04	It is mutually agreed that the employees shall not be eligible to serve as Stewards until they have at least one (I) year's service with the Company.
6.05	It is understood that Union Stewards have their regular work to perform on behalf of ihe Company, and ifit is necessary to service a grievance during working hours they will not cease their work without obtaining permission of their supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. When resuming their regular work they will reporl to their supervisor.
6.06	The Grievance Committee and Un off to investigate grievances andt be compensated for time spent dur rate. Any abuse of such privile. Company.
n Stewards shall be allowed reasonable time attend meetings with management, and shall g working hours at their straight time hourly may be the subject of a grievance by the
6.07	When an employee is discipljned the Union official present shall be a Steward in the department, if not available then a Steward of their choice or a member of Executive who are then present. the parties agree the provisions are directory. The Company agrees to advise its (supervisors to comply with the provision.
ARTICLE 7 - ORIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	Complaints and grievances shall b< adjusted as quickly as possible. For purposes of this Article "working days” exclude Saturdays, Sundays and Company recognized holidays.
7.02	An employee who has a complain or grievance shall present it to his supervisor within seven (7) working days c f the date the employee was first aware or reasonably could have been aware of the occurrence. The supervisor must give the employee his decision within two (2) full working days of receiving the employee's complaint or grievar ce. The departmental Shop Steward may accompany the employee when pr renting his complaint or grievance.
7.03	If the supervisor's answer given th i employee in clause 7 02 was unsatisfactory, the grievancewill be taken up in tfj 3 following sequence and manner. Forms for this use are to be supplied by the l, nion and approved by the Company
Step 1
The written grievance, signed by tl e grieving employee and by the Stewardof the department involved, will bepresc ited to the supervisorof the department within four (4) full working days of tf: supervisor's decision in clause 7.02. The supervisorwill give written decisic i to the departmental Shop Steward within lour (4) full working days of receivinj the written grievance. The grievance will be considered settled unless Step 2 is taken within four (4) full working days following the written decision givrn by the supervisor in Step I.
6
Step 2
I'he written grievance will be submitted by the Grievance Committee to the Plant Manager orliis representative. The Manager to whom the Supervisor reports to or his representative will give his written decision to the Grievance Committee within four (4) full working days of receiving the written grievance. The grievance will be considered settled unless Step 3 is taken within four (4) full working days following the written decision given by the Manager or his representative in Step 2.
Step3
I he written grievance, including copies of the submissions and decisions made under the preceding steps, will be submitted1 to the President. The President will give his written decision to the Grievance Committee within five (5) full working days of receiving the written grievance. If the President is not available, the parties may mutually agree to extend the normal five (5) day time period or accept the President's nominee. '1 he grievance will be considered settled unless timely request for Arbitration, as provided in Article 8 of the Agreement is made tollowing the written decision of the President or his nominee in Step 3.
7.04	A representative of the International Union may be present at any of the proceedings under Step 2 or 3 above, at the request of either party.
7.05	Any difference or grievance arising directly between the Company and Union may be submitted in writing by either party at Step 2.
7.06	When a group of employees from more than one department has a complaint or grievance, it shall be first taken up under Step 2.
7.07	Any adjustment arising out of the settlement of an employee’s grievance, or the grievance of a group of employees, under the grievance or arbitration procedure shall not be made retroactive prior to the beginning of the pay period immediately proceeding the date on which it was first presented thereunder in writing by the employee or the group of employees coricemed. The above restriction on retroactivity will not apply lo payroll grievahees.
i
7.08	The Union acknowledges that probationary employees may be dismissed by the Company, and that such dismissal [shall not be the subject of a grievance.
ARTICLE 8-ARBITRATION
8.01	Failing a settlement under the Grievance Procedure, the matter in dispute may be taken to arbitration, provided that if no written request is received within fourteen (14) calendar days alter the final dejeision is given under the grievance procedure it shall be deemed to have been fmjally, completely, and satisfactorily settled.
8.02	For purposes of this Article "working days" exclude Saturdays, Sundays and Company recognized holidays.
When either party requests arbilrali request in writing addressed to the time, nominate an arbitrator. The state in what respect the Agreer reference to the specific clause ort the nature oft he relief or remedy si arbitrator within ten (10) working
n as herein above provided, it shall make such iher party to this Agreement and, at the same lolice shall state the matter at issue and shall enl has been violated or misinterpreted by auses relied upon. The notice shall also state ighl. The Party so notified shall appoint their ays of such notice.
The two (2) arbitrators so nominal! if within five (5) further full work shall attempt to select by agreem chairman ofthe Arbitration. Il'lh chairman within seven (7)ealem Province of Ontario shall be asked
I shall meet within ten (10) working days, and tg days they fail to scale the grievance, they nt a third person who shall act us impartial i are unable to agree on the choice of such a .r days, then the Minister of l.abour for the o name a chairman ofthe Arbitration Hoard.
8.03	No person may be appointed as anjarbilralor who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance].
I
8.04	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly earried through all previous required step^ ofthe grievance procedure.
8.05	The proceedings ofthe Arbitration jUoard will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of a majority of sjucli board shall be Final and binding upon the Company, Union and employees donccrncd.
8
8.06	Mach of the panics hereto will bear the expense of the arbitrator appointed by it, or lor it. and parlies will equally bear the expenses, if any, of the Chairman of the Arbitration Hoard.
8.07	the Arbitration Hoard shall not have any authority to make a decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
8.08	Any and all lime limits referred to under the grievance and arbitration procedures herein may. at any time, be extended by written agreement between the Company and the Union.
8.09	In determining and discharge or any other disciplinary grievance, the Board of Arbitration shall have the authority to:
(a)	affirm the Company's action and dismiss the grievance;
(b)	set aside the penalty imposed by the Company, and restore the grievor to his former position with or without compensation; or
(c)	vary oralter the penalty imposed by the Company or make such other determination as the Hoard in its discretion may deem justified.
ARTICLE 9 DISCHARGE
9.01	A discharged employee shall have the right to discuss their grievance with their Shop Steward in the Human Resources office before leaving the plant. If an employee claims the discharge to be unjust, it shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged by the employee with the Manager within two (2) working days (Monday to Friday) alter the employee ceases to work for the Company. This grievance shall be taken up under the Grievance Procedure, and Step 1 will be omitted.
9.02	Such special grievances may be settled under the grievance or arbitration procedure by:
(i)	Confirming the management's action in discharging the employee.
9
(ii)	Reinstating the employe? with full compensation lor time lost less such sums earned by the employee from the date of their dismissal to the date of their reinstatement.
(iii)	Or by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
ARTICLE 10 - STRIKES. LOCKOUTS /^ND SLOWDOWNS
10.01	In view of the orderly procedures here set out for settling grievances, the Company agrees that there will be no lockout of the employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strike, slow-down, sit-down or any stoppage of work, or any other action either partial or jcomplcle, either by an individual employee or by a group of employees, which will in anyway disrupt the operations of the Company.
ARTICLE 11-SENIORITY
11.01	For new employees (operators, caretakers and finishers)the first forty-live (45) days worked from the date of hire vyill be considered probationary and not entitled to seniority. For all other classifications the first seventy-live (75 )days worked will be considered probationary apd not entitled to seniority. The probationary period will be extended by plant vacations, but not beyond a consecutive thirteen (13)week lay-oflorany occurrencp over which the Company has no control A twelve (12) hour shifi will count i)s one and a huff (I 112)days worked for the purpose of seniority.
During the respective probations y periods, as outlined in this Article, new employees will not be entitled to sc liorily, and may be dismissed or laid offal the discretion of the Company.
Upon the expiration of the probationary period as outlined in this Article, new employees shall acquire seniority fights and be placed on the seniority list w ith seniority established from the first working day of the employee's last hiring.
11.01	The Company will provide the Union with updated department and plant w ide seniority lists every three(3)months which shall be posted on a Company bulletin board for a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days.
10
All seniority lists will show the employee's name and date of employment as well us the employee's status or job classification in the following plant departments:
(a)	Compression
(b)	finishing
(c)	Injection
(d)	Materials Handling
(e)	Plant Services
(0	Quality Assurance
(g)	Spray Painting
The Spray Painting and finishing Departments will be administered as one department for all purposes except seniority, layoff and recall.
The Company agrees to continue to administer the Plant Service Department in the same manner as when the Tool and Maintenance sections were named as separate departments under the Collective Agreement. Such practices will include, hut not be limited to seniority and preference for vacation periods.
11.03 An employee shall lose all seniority iflhal employee:
(a)	following a layoff of indeterminate period, on being notified by the Company by registered mail to the employee's last known address, with a copy of the letter to the President of l.ocal 1476, fails to advise the Company within seven (7) calendar days of the dale of the mailing of the registered letter, of die employee’s intention to return to work. Such return to work, unless otherwise agreed by the Company, for reasonable cause, must be within two (2) working days (Monday to Priday) of receipt of the original notice.
(b)	If absent without leave for two (2) consecutive scheduled shids. An employee is considered absent without leave if no report is made to the I luman Resources office or the employee's shift supervisor by the end of their regular shift. Legitimate reasons for failing to comply with the foregoing will be taken into consideration.
<c)
the Company, to report lor work on the dale and the time specified at the time of layoff.
It
(d)	following a period ofqick leave exceeding the authorized absence under Article 22.03 (e) (ii), fails to provide requested medical ccrlilication.
11.04	An employee will lose all seniority and his employment will cease if that employee:
(a)	Voluntarily quits the employ of the Company.
((,) Is discharged by the Company and such discharge is not reversed through the Grievance Procedure.
(c)	llus been laid off for moije than twelve (12) consecutive months. In the case of employees with five (5)years' seniority or more, at the time of layoff, has been laid off for more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months; or, in the case of employees with ten (10) years' seniority or more at the time of layoff, has been laid off for more than thirty-six (36)consecutive months.
11.05	It shall be the duty of employees to notify the Company promptly in writing of any change of address or telephone. If an employee fails to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of notice to reach such employee.
11.06	An employee shall not suffer loss of seniority owing to absence through accident or illness provided that the Company may require proof of such absence in the formofa certified statement from a.Doelor of Medicine or Doctor of Chiropractic, that the employee was unfit for work on the day(s) in question.
ARTICLE 12 -TRANSKERS AND JOB POSTINGS
12.01	Definitions:
(a) A transfer is the reloeajion of a seniority employee to a permanent vacancy in the same of another department which results from an employee application, application of seniority, or other reason. Requests by seniority,employees for change of shifts within a department shall not be considered as transfers and will only be granted on a "request if possible" basis.
12
(b)	A permanent vacancy is an opening within any classification ofmore Ilian thirty (30) calendar days duration. A vacancy created by an employee who is absent due to illness, injury, vacation or authorized leave of absence shall not be considered a permanent vacancy.
(c)	A general worker level shall be considered as the lowest job classification in a department.
12.02	All permanent vacancies above the level of general workers, and newly created positions above the level o f general worker in any department shall be posted for two (2) consecutive scheduled shi As (or five (5) calendar days when working twelve (12) hour shills) on a Company bulletin board before permanently filling such vacancy. An employee desiring such position must make application in writing to the I lutnan Resources office within two (2) consecutive scheduled shifts (or live (5) calendar days when working twelve (12) hour shills) from the initial time of posting.
Employees on leave of absence or approved vacation will be considered for job vacancies or new positions above the level of general worker if application in writing is made to the Human Resources office within forty-three (43) calendar days of the job vacancy, or within two (2) scheduled shins of return to work, whichever is the shorter period.
In the case of job vacancies at the general worker level in any department, a Courtesy Notice will be placed on the bulletin board so that applications from within the plant regardless of department may be considered. Such Courtesy Notices will remain posted for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours. If the position is filled within forty-eight (48) hours from time the notice posted, it will be subject to change based on further applications received for that period.
The Company will provide an answer to all applicants within fourteen (14) calendar days of the notice removal.
The Company will notify the Union ofthe name(s) of the successful applicant^) and place their name(s) on the plant bulletin board.
12.03	Employees wishing consideration for transfer must complete a Transfer Application provided by the company and present it to the Human Resources office. Periodically, the Human Resources office will notify transfer applicants
13
of the necessity to renew their applications. Failure to renew within seven (7) calendar days of this notice will invalidate a transfer application.
12.04	Transfer applicants will be considered at the time of a job vacancy. Transfer applicants for another department cannot be accepted if they have been successfully transferred in the preceding six (6) months. Newly hired employees will not be eligible for transfer until they have completed six (6) months' service with the Company unless there ire no other successful applicants. Further, transfer applicants will be interviewed by the Employee Relations Coordinator (or designate or selection committee, Where appropriate) and evaluated in view ofthe requirements of the job vacancy, the person selected will be the person who in the judgment ofthe Company has (he following:
(a)	Qualifications toperforth the job.
(tj)	Ability to perform thejob.
(c)	Qualities of reliability arid responsibility.
(d)	Seniority will govern if bther requirements are met
Should the Company NOT choose the most senior applicant from among present Company employees, the following documentation must be available lor inspection by a member of the Union Executive.
Written examinations taken by bcjth the applicant refused the position and the applicant accepted, will he in cac)i employee's personnel lile. Also any trade certification or recommendations Will be filed along with the hiring supervisor's written report on each person.
If the Union Executive representative wishes to inspect these documents it w ill be done in the presence of the hiring supervisor and the Employee Relations Coordinator (orlhcir designates)within nine (9)calendar days ofthe posted notice showing the successful applicant.
Any applicant with more seniority than the applicant accepted, will haye the opportunity to discuss the refusal of their application and the reasons thereof, with the Supervisor ofthe department dqing the hiring in the presence ofthe Employee Relations Coordinator(ordesignate) and the employee's l Inion Steward before the
14
notice showing the successful applicant is posted.
None of the foregoing will preclude the Company going outside the Company for applicants if suitable applicants are notavdilablc among the present employees.
12.05	A transferred employee will retain the seniority of their former department or section for their respeclive probationary periods after which time seniority will be transferred to the employee's new department.
12.06	Should a transferred employee prove unsatisfactory within their respective probationary periods of transfer, the employee will be returned to their former position and department. I fthe employee's former position in a particular group or shift has been tilled, the employee may be compelled to go into another group or shil\ where there is an opening. Further, the employee will be advised of reasons for unsatisfactory performance by the Supervisor of the department or section doing the hiring, in the presenceofthe Employee Relations Coordinator (or designate), and the employee's Union Steward.
12.07	Any seniority hourly employee transferring to the salaried staff of Waltec Plastics Inc. will he on probation for three (3) calendar months. During this period the transferredemployeewill remain a seniority Union member, pay Union dues and he subject to alt terms of the existing Collective Agreement except the following:
(a)	Rates of pay
(h)	Hours of work.
(c)	Grievance procedures in regardto transfer from salaried back to hourly.
If, during the three (3) month probation period the transferred employee is found unsuitable, or if the employee elects not to cbntinuc with the salaried position, the employeewillbe retu rned to their former hourly position without loss of seniority.
I	f the employee has passed the salaried probationary period, but is still within twelve (12) calendar months ofthe original transferandiffor any reason either on behalfofthe Company or on behalf of the employee there is a need to move from salaried back to hourly, the employeewillbd given the opportunity to accept ajob which inthejudgment ofthe Company is suitable to the employee's qualifications and ability in the Department employing the least senior person in the Company
15
at that particular time. The employee will regain their seniority, including that time period while on Waltce I’lislics Inc. salaried staff. The least senior employee, then will be laid off.
12.08	If a seniority employee is permanently unable to perform their job due to health reasons, that employee will be giv sn the opportunity to transfer to anotherjob classification in any department, co dilional upon their ability to perform the new job satisfactorily in the opinion o the Company and upon his having greater seniority than the person he displac s. The least senior person in the department would be laid off or given the o| portunity for other work if available. The employee making the transfer woul I retain seniority, but would receive effective immediately, the wage rate ofthe i cwjob.
ARTICLE 13 - LAYOFFS AND RECALL^
13.01	Reductions ofthe work force will be carried out in accordance with following procedures, provided in each cased at the employees remaining in the department are willing, capable and qualified tc perform the work available. In cases of layoffs the Company will notify the en ployees involved as early as possible, but for lay-offs of more than seven (7) calc idar days the Company will notify employees at least forty-eight hours prior to th : lay-off. The provisions of this section shall not apply if the lack of work i: occasioned by circumstances beyond the Company's control.
a)
b)
In the event of a lay-oiT in a department which is not expected to exceed seven (7)ealendardays, seniority shall apply in determining the reduction ofthe work fofee by shill seniority within the department
In the event there is woi capable and quulilied to | to report to the assigned
in another department and the employee is rform the work available, he will be required /ork station.
In the event ofa lay-oil's rich is expected to exceed seven (7)ealendai days, the following will overn.
I) In any department where a work force reduction is necessary, probationary employees and students will be laid off first.
ii) If further reduction to the work force is necessary in a department, regu ir employees will be laid off in inverse order of departmental i miority.
16
iii) Employees laid off as in ii) above, who have at least one (1) year's seniority, will be given the opportunity to temporarily transfer into a departmental classification which they have successfully completed .the appropriate probation period, providing they have the necessary seniority to do so.
Employees who have demonstrated their ability to perform in more than one department must bump into the department employing the least senior employee.
l-mployces with six (6) years' seniority or more may elect to bump into any departmentemploying a junior employee in any classification the more senior employee is capable to perform
|v) Employees who cannot transfer under iii) above will only have the right to transfer into a departmental classification which at the lime is employing the least senior person in the Company and if this action is taken, (he least senior person will belaid off. If the job in the department which employs the least senior person in the Company happens to be a job that cannot be pcrfomied by the person being laid off the opportunity will pass to the department employing the next lowest senior person in the Company.
v)	Regular employees who exercise their seniority and temporarily transfer to another department under lay-off conditions, shall have five (5) scheduled shifts to reach an acceptable level of performance in their new temporary classification or be laid off.
vi)	I’ay scale of job to which employee transfers will apply immediately upon transfer,
vil) Regular employees who have elected temporary transfer in lieu of lay-off must return to their original job classification and department when there is an increasein the work force oftheir original department and their former position again becomes available.
17
vlii) Once a regular employee with one (1) or more years seniority elects lay-off in lieu of temporary transfer that employee shall not have the right to return to work until recalled by the Company to that Employee's original job classification.
ix) Regular employe who have elected temporary transfer in lieu of lay-off retain le seniority for their original department as well as carry this ime seniority to the department in which they have temporarily ransferred in the event of a further lay-ol'l
In the event there is work in anolht department and the employee is capable and qualified to perform the work a\ liable, he will be required to report to the assigned work station.
13.02	When there is an increase in the v rk force, laid off employees will be recalled in order of seniority provided they re willing and qualified to perform the work available. [During periods of la off seniority will accumulate subject to the provisions of Article 11.03.
13.03	No new employees will be hired ui il all laid offemployees who are willing and qualified to do the jobs have bee recalled, subject to all other provisions of Article 13.
most seniority in the department, and shall be continued at work, if work is available, provided they are willir , and able to perform whatever work is then available.
departmental Union Stewards will e considered as having the most seniority on their respective shills in their depc intent, Where more than one (I )S(eward in a department is entitled to super sen irity by virtue of 6.02 or 13.05, then seniority as between theniselves will be d lermined by their relative positions on the departmental seniority lists.
The Shop Committee, under the jprovisions of this Article, shall include all Departmental Union Stewards andjOflicers of the l.ocal Union Executive.
<8
13.0$ No seniority employee will be laid off while a student remains employed, provided the employee is capable and willing to perform thejob.
13.06	The parties agree that for purposes of layoff Technicians I, 2 and 3 with a minimum of one (I) years' seniority shall not be effected by such layoff until a seniority level of seven (7) years is reached. For the purpose of recall, 'I echnicians I and 2 with a minimum of one (I) year's seniority shall be deemed to have five (5/years' seniority.
Il	is further agreed that in the event such employee may, provided he has greater seniority, elect to bump the least senior employee who's job he isqualified (o perform in any department.
ARTICLE 14 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
14.01	The Company may grant leave of absence without pay to any employee fora legitimate personal reason for up to three (3) months. Any such person who is absent with written permission shall not be considered to be laid off, and their seniority shall continue to accumulate during their absence.
I o ensure fair treatment of the intent of this clause, all applications for leave of absence will be reviewed by the Department Manager, the Employee Relations Coordinator, and the General Manager.
14.02	Any leave of absence shall be confirmed in writing, and no such leave will affect any employee's seniority rights when used for the purpose granted. If an employee uses their leave of absence for any other purpose than the purpose for which it was granted, he may lose his seniority.
14.03	The Company will grant leave of absence without pay to a maximum of two (2) delegated Union members to attend Union Conventions or Conferences for a maximum of ten (10) scheduled shins per year. Up to eight (8) additional scheduled shins leave of absence without ppy will be considered for the delegated Union members if they are members of the Executive Committee of the Ontario Joint Council and are required to attend Regional Office meetings, providing such leave will not critically affect the operation of the department concerned, hi both cases, the Company must be notified in writing ai least five (5) scheduled shins in advance of any requested leave of absence.
19
14.04	Bereavement
Should a death occur in the immediate family (wife, husband, child, mother, father, sister, brother, father-in-law or mother-in-law. grandparents, brother-in-law, sister-in-law of an employee i r spouse), the Company will grant leave of absence for a period of not more tha i three (3) scheduled shifts at the employee's basic hourly rate. Such leave ofab encc shall be granted provided:
<») The employee has completed his probationary period
(b) The leave of absence i$ for the days of funeral, or interment, or mourning period.
Saturdays, Sundays, paid holiday d,ays and paid vacation leave are not working days under this clause except when such days are regularly scheduled days for the employee. Paid holidays and paid vacation days used as bereavement leave must be taken in the first available working days the employee was originally scheduled to return to work.
In cases ofdeferred interment, the employee can elect to defer bereavement day(s) until that time provided the actual in irment day is taken as bereavement leave and the Company is notified of the emp ayee's intention. Should deferred interment take place on a weekend, the workii g day(s) nearest the interment day would be taken.
"Common-law” relationships will e deemed to exist lor purposes of this and other benefit clauses where an emP uyee has filed an appropriate declaration no less than once per year.
In addition, either of the following (conditions must exist:
a)	A minimum of or
	a conjugal reialio
b)	[ he couple have
	and the couple’
	permanence
: (1) year of continuous cohabitation in iship or
a natural or adoptive child relationship is of some
20
14.05	Court Appearances
I f an employee is called for Jury Duly or subpoenaed by the Crown as a witness, lire Company will pay the difference between the daily pay and the employee's normal regular straight time pay, for any day the employee would have normally worked This w ill he exclusive of any transportation costs or reimbursements. I'lie employee must supply to the Company, the necessary documents to verify reimbursements. If the employee reports for court appearances (referred to above) and then is released for the balance of (ho day, he will be expected to report to work as soon as possible that day.
I he Company will grant leave of absence with pay to an employee whose child of less than sixteen (16) years of age is subpoenaed by the Crown as a witness.
I he employee’s Supervisor must be notified at the time of Jury Duty notification or subpoena and the usual written authorization signed.
14.06	l Inion Ofliccrs will be granted time off without pay to attend Executive meetings of the Union l.oeul provided that the meetings are scheduled so that the majority oft Hikers attending would not normally be on shift at that time. The Company must be notified in writing at least five (5) working days in advance of any requested leave of absence.
14.07	I fan employee fails to report for work at the expiration of any leave granted, he shall be deemed to have resigned unless excused by the Company.
14.08	The Company will grant twenty-four (24)scheduled hours leave of absence to expectant fathers at the time of their child's birth. Such leave ofabsence will be with pay. The employee's Supervisor must be notified in advance with as much notification time as practical arid the usual written authorization signed.
14.09	I .cave of absence with pay, up to a maximum of one (I) scheduled shift will be granted to the appropriate department Union Steward, to attend the funeral of an employee of the Company.
21
14.10	Leave of absence may be granted lo delegated Union members to attend Union sponsored safety and/or education seminars to a maximum o f ten (10) scheduled shifts per employee per year. Leavd of absence will not be refused unless it will critically affect the operation oftheidepartment involved.
14.11	All written requests for leave of absence to beansweredwithin four (4)working days.
ARTICLE 15 • NOTICES AN D ANNOUNCED! ENTS
15.01	All Union bulletins to be posted in the plant musthave prior approval of both the local Union President (or Union authorized signing officer), and the Employee Relations Coordinator (or designate). These approved Union Bulletins shall only be posted on bulletin boards provided by the Company.
Further, the Union agrees that it will not distribute any pamphlet, circular or petition in the Plant without prior approvalof the Employee Relations Coordinator for designate)
ARTICLE 16- REPORTING ALLOWANCE
16.01	If an employee reports for work at the commencement of their usual shift and on time, they shall be entitled to a m inimum number of hours pay equivalent to hall' of the employee's regular shill at do less than their regular payroll rate unless notified previously by the Companyinol lo report, cither orally or by notice on the bulletin board, or by message left (it the employee's residence provided that, it requested by the Company, (he cmjploycc shall perform a minimum number of hours equivalent to half of the employee's regular shill of such reasonable alternatework as the Company ntajf assign; and provided further that there shall be no such obligation on the part of Ihe Company to pay ail) reporting allowance if the lack of work is occasioned by circumstances beyondthe Company’s control
16.02	If an employee is asked to comeback to work after their regular hours, and if it is not an extension of their regular shifl at the end of the regular shill, the employee is entitled to "CALL-IN" pay. An employeeworking any time up to two<2> hours at two (2) times the straight hourly rate. Time worked by an employee in excess of two (2) hours on "CALL-IN” will be subject to the overtime provisions o!
22
Article 21 04.
If, for their own convenience, an employee chooses to return later instead of extending their shill, it will he considered normal overtime instead of"CAU,-IN".
I he Union recognizes the Company's right (o request the employee to work for the lull time paid on "CAI.I.-IN".
16.03	If an employee is designated on the Stand-by Duly Roster for a weekend or Company recognized holiday, the effected employee will receive filly ($50) dollars effective September 20, 1998 and sixty ($60)dollars effective September 20, 1999 Stand-by day.
'1 he inclusion of an individual's name on Stand-by Duty Roster is voluntary. However, once it is included it must remain for a three (3) month cycle. If anyone "trades-olf a weekend, the posted list must be changed by Friday 10:00 a.m. at the latest by the person originally designated for duty.
16.04	If an employee l$ contacted while on vacation and subsequently voluntarily agrees to work for any period during that vacation, they will receive 1 Vi times their normal wage rate for that period. Also the equivalent time worked will he granted at a later date as regular vacation.
ARTICLE 17-TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
17.01	It is agreed that it is to the advantage of both the Company and the employees to utilize all possible technological variation, automation, and scientific Improvements
17.02	II is agreed that for the purpose of this Aflicle, technological changes shall be defined as the cllect upon employees of the permanent elimination of an operator or majority of an operator's time brought about by major changes in machinery design. 7 his, in no way, is to be interpreted in a manner which would prevent the Company from making normal improvements and savings through increased efficiency or establishing new work standards by altering or improving the production methods and efficiency of machinery or personnel, provided such acts are consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
23
17.03	The Company shall notify the Unionmol less than thirty (30)calendar days before the introduction of any technological change and shall endeavour to furnish all information necessary to an understanding of the proposed change and shall discuss with the Union methods ofathieving the change to ensure that the interest of the Company and the employeesare fairly and effectively protected.
17.04	In addition to notice of separation, any employee discharged by the Company as the result oftechnological change will be eligible for a severance allowance on the basis of one (I) week's pay at their straight lime hourly rate for each full year of seniority to a maximum oflwcnly-sSx (26)weeks' pay.
Severance pay will be paid to the seVered employee each regular pay day until the maximum severance pay has bccm paid to the employee as explained in this clause. 1 f the employee is rehired during the period that he is entitled to Severance pay • severance pay will cease immejdiately on rehiring. I fan employee is willing to accept another position in the department in lieu of severance, employees will be given this opportunity in order of seniority if such positions are available. If the employee accepts a new job in lifcu of severance he shall then receive the rate of his formerjob fora period of one (I) week for each six (6) months of seniority with a maximum of thirteen (13) w$eks and a minimum of three (3) weeks.
17.05	In the event a technological changeicreales ajob classification that immediately requires skilled employees the Company will have the right to hire skilled employees. If, however, a lechnqlogicul change creates ajob classilieulion whereby the Company has sufficient time to train present employees for this position, then the employees in the [department will be given the opportunity, in order of seniority, to train for thej position, provided in the judgment of the Company the employee or employees concerned have the necessary qualifications to be trained for thejob.
17.06	When a technological change creates a newjob classification the Company will set the rate of pay for this job. If the rate is not satisfactory to the employee concerned it may become the subjetl of a grievance.
24
AK11CLE lS^CQMPAmiRECQCMlZED HOLIDAYS
18.01 I lie follmsing days are Company recognized holidays for Ihe purpose of this Agreement
(i)
(ii)
New Year's Day Good Friday Ivaslcr M onday V ictoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
L abour Day Thanksgiving Day C hristm as Eve (i)
Christm as Day Boxing Day
One Floating Holidayed)
The day designated is the day before'Christmas unless that day Is a Saturday or Sunday, then a day in the week Following Christmas.
Ihe floating holiday will be observed annually on a day to be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union I lowever, in the event the Federal Government legislated Heritage Day, the floating holiday will be observed on the day so designated.
Christmas Shutdown Days and Floating Holiday will be as follows:
122B
December 24, 1998 December 25. 1998 December 31, 1998
1222
January I, 1999 July 1, 1999 July 2, 1999 December 24, 1999 December 27, 1999 December 28. 1999 December 31, 1999
Thursday	• Christmas Eve
Friday	• Christmas Day
'Diursday	• Boxing Day
Friday	• New Year’s Day
Thursday	• Floater
Friday	• Canada Day
Friday	• Christmas Eve
Monday	■ Christmas Day
Tuesday	• Boxing Day
Friday	• New Year's Day
25
Friday
Monday
- Floater - Canada Day
20(H)
June 30,2000
July 3,2000
18.02	For all personnel, except injection, compression, quality assurance, storekeeper and caretaker (when on twelve (12) hour shift, seven (7) day continuous operation) the above Company recognized holidays will be paid for regardless of when they fall. Employees shall receive pay on the basis of their straight time hourly rate for the number of hourd they would have worked ifthe holiday had been a normal work day.
18.03	For all personnel, except injection, (compression, quality assurance, storekeeper and caretaker, (when on twelve (12) hour shift, seven (7) day continuous operation) in the event of a paid holiday falling on a Saturday, Sunday or during the vacation period, another day will be declared in lieu of the holiday.
18.04	Authorized work performed on aCpmpany recognized holiday shall be paid for at two (2) times the basic straight tirjne hourly rate of the individual plus holiday pay, where applicable.
18.05	In the case of injection, compression, quality assurance, storekeeper, and caretaker, (when on twelve (12)hoi|ir shift, seven (7) day continuous operation), all Company recognized holidays jiave been traded off except Christmas Eve. Christmas, Boxing Day, and New year's Day. The above mentioned personnel will receive all Company recognize^ holidays, including the above named, when the injection and compressiondeparjments close for the Christmas holiday period. Alternatively, at the discretion of thg Company the banked statutory holidays can be taken as per the trade off.
Work performed by the above personnel on Company recognized holidays will be at two (2) times the basic straight lime hourly rate, plus Weekend Premiums if applicable. This will apply the day| the Company recognizes the holiday for the balanceofthe plant.
The above personnel at the time of t)ie Christmas shutdown will be paid eight (8) hours straight time holiday pay fo) each of the Company recognized holidays which have been included in their (enn of employment. Twelve (12) hour shift
26
employees who actually worked on a Company recognized holiday will be paid twelve (12) hours holiday pay instead of eight (8) on trade-ofT at Christmas. Kll'eclivc June I. 1999, twelve (12) hour shift employees will be paid twelve (12) hours pay lor all Statutory holidays, except Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, Dosing Day and New Year’s Day which will be paid at eight (8) hours.
I fan employee operating on the above schedule leaves the employ of the company lor any reason lie will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for each of the Company recognized holidays, during the term of his employment, if the person has not already received holiday pay for that day, and if he complied with the terms of Article 18.06.
Notwithstanding the above paragraph, if an employee was on the twelve (12) hour schedule and actually worked on a Company recognized holiday, (hat employee, when leaving the Company for any reason, will receive twelve (12) hours straight lime pay for each of the Company recognized holidays they worked during the term of employment, if that person has not already received holiday pay for that day and if they comply with the terms of Article 18.06.
18.06	Employees shall not he eligible for Company recognized holiday pay if they:
(a)	I lave not completed their probationary period.
(b)	While on lay-oil'refuse work by not exercising their bumping rights or refuse call-in work having received at least twenty-four (24) hours priur notice.
(c)	Foil to work or complete the regular scheduled shift on the working day immediately prior to, and following the holiday, unless excused by the Company. When employees arc absent due to illness, accident, layoff, approved vacation, or bereavement in the immediate family, provided evidence satisfactory to the Company is produced, then they shall be paid for any Company recognized holiday that arises. An employee will not lose holiday pay by being laic on the shift before or after (he holiday, as long as the lateness docs not exceed one-half hour.
(d)	In any event, an employee must have worked within the three (3) week period immediately prior to the holiday, as well as the shift on the day before the holiday, except if on approved vacation, and as referred to
27
in paragraph (b) to qualify for Company recognized holiday pay
18.07	Any regular working day that is trai between the Company and the Un terms of this Collective Agreement
Any request for trade-off by l’roc writing to the Company by the Unit or shorter period by mutual agreemt the Company requests trade-off b period shall apply.
I with a Premium Day by mutual agreement l, shall be treated as a standard day for all
:tion Departments should be presented in Executive at least thirty (30) calendar days, , prior to the requested change. In the event Production Departments, the same notice
ARTICLE 19 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
19.01
All employees who, on June 30th consecutive service outlined in the
of any one year, have the number of years following schedule shall be entitled to the number of weeks vacation and the percentage of annual earnings applicable thereto:
Years of Seniority on June 30th	Vacation Time	Percent of Annual Earnings
Up to three (3)months		4 %
Three (3) months but less than six (6)months	1 week	4%
Six (6) months but less than live (5) years	2 weeks	J%
Five (5) years but less than twelve (12) years	3 weeks	b %
Twelve (12) years but less than twenty (20)years	4 weeks	8%
Twenty (20)years and over	5 weeks	10%
2ll
Employees who are entitled to vacation period in excess of vacation plant shutdown shall have their remaining vacation at the time mutually agreed between the Company and the employee concerned. Where mutual agreement is not reached by December 31 st, a maximum of one (I) week’s vacation time may he deferred to no later than March 31st.
Vacation time taken alter July 1st will he paid for in blocks of one (I) week.
19.02	lotal annual earnings lor vacation pay computation shall include the employee’s total earnings in the preceding twelve (12) month period ending June 30th of the current vacation year.
I.ost time from work, while receiving Workers’Compensation or Company Sick Benefit, shall be included in the Annual Earnings upon which vacation pay is calculated, as if the employee has received his full regular pay during such absence.
19.03	Employees leaving the Company’scmploy prior to the vacation shutdown will receive vacation pay on the basis set out in 19.01 on earnings since the previous computation date
19.04	The Company at its discretion may shut down the plant for vacation period (normally during the two (2) weeks prior to Civic Holiday), at which time the employees will take their vacation, if not required to work during this period. Notice of such vacation shutdown will be posted two (2) months prior to the vacation period.
19.05	An employee who becomes seriously disabled (e.g. requiring hospitalization) within three (3) weeks of the plant shutdown, and who is receiving Workers’ Compensation or weekly indemnity benefits during the plant shutdown shall be entitled to take vacation at a later date, as may be mutually agreed upon.
ARTICLE 20-WAGES
20.01	The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept for the term of this Agreement, the schedule of job classifications and wage rates as set out in Appendixes "A”, “13" and “C" which are attached to and form part of this Agreement.
29
There shall be weekly payment of \yages effective January 1, 1987,
20.02	In addition to the rates of pay Ik e< in Appendixes "A", "B” and "C" the Company will pay the following pr niums
Shift Premium
(a)	Injection, Compression, duality Assurance, Storcskeepcr and Caretaker (when on shiftF).
For hours worked from 7|p.m. to 7 a m., 6% of base rate per hour.
(b)	All other Departments including above departments when on eight (8) hour shift schedules.
Shift No. I - No Premiun!)
Shift No. 2 • 4% of base rate per hour Shift No. 3 ■ 6% ofbase (ate per hour
Week-End Premiums
Injection, Compression, Assurance. Storcskecper and Caretaker (when on shift F).
For hours worked from 1 ia.m. Saturday to 7 a.m. Sunday, 12% ofbase rate per hour.
For hours worked from 7 ja.m. Sunday to 7 a.m. Monday, 20% of base rate per hour.
If schedules are started, nvolving Saturday or Sunday as part of a regular schedule, other thl i the twelve (12) hour schedule as mentioned above, weekend premiui s will be negotiated. If agreement is not reached within sixty (6(J days, voluntary binding arbitration will be invoked.
20.03	An employee temporarily transfcrrejl to another job for a period of fourteen (141 calendar days or less will receive the rale of the job to which the employee is transferred or the rate of the previously held job, whichever is higher. This
3<)
fourteen (M) day period may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the employee. An employee transferred in lieu of layoff or at their own request will receive the rate of thejob to which the employee is transferred.
An employee temporarily transferred on ajob posting will receive the rate of the job to which the employee is transferred or the rate of the previously held job, whichever is higher.
20.04	It is agreed that the Company has the option to apply rates above the scheduled hiring rales when persons hired have previous experience either with this Company or elsewhere.
20.05	I here shall he no pyramiding of any premium or overtime payment with any other premium or overtime payment.
Overtime will be calculated on base rates only, shift premiums or other premiums will then be added.
20.06	An employee suffering an injury in the course of their employment who is required to leave the plant premises, will be paid to the end of their regular shift.
I he Company reserves the right to investigate all reported injuries on Company premises, and if through medical investigation it is found that the employee was not required to leave the plant premises at the time of the injury, then the employee will not be paid as provided above.
20.07	In addition to the rates of pay outlined in Appendices "A, B. and C", a Cost of Living Allowance (C.O.l..A.) of .65 of the percentage increase in the Consumer Price IndexfC.P.I. 1086 = 100)as published by Statistics Canada for each full 0.2 increase in theC.P.I. will be calculated based on an employee's rate of pay asset out in "Wage Appendices" and will become payable as follows:
COLA adjustment to commence beginning with the first full pay period after the publication of any index exceeding 1.057 multiplied by the August 1998 C.P.I.. The maximum payment under this paragraph will be 2% of an employee’s hourly rate during this term.
In the case of decreases in the C.P.I. the COLA , if any, will be reduced on the same formula as increases are calculated. Hours granted for recognized holidays
31
will be considered as worked hours for the purpose of this clause.
At September 20,2000, the COLA, If any, will be folded into the base rate
ARTICLE 21 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
21.01	'['his Article defines the Normal hours of work and provides the basis Fcr calculating overtime. It shall not be Construed as a guarantee of hours per day or per week, or days of work per week or as a restriction on the scheduling of a longer or shorter day or work week ijvhenever, in the opinion of the Company, it is necessary to meet business requirements.
21.02	The following shall be the standard Ishifts of the Company:
A One (I) shift per day.
Shift Times:	8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon
12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Rest Periods:	Two (2) fiftben (I 5) minute per shift (paid)
Lunch Period:	One (1) Ihifty (30)minute per shift (unpaid)
B Two (2) shifts per day in a service dbpartmcnl.
I
Shift Times:	Shift I •	8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon
12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Shill 2-	3:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
7:30 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
Rest Periods:	Two (2) iitijecn (15) minute per shill (paid)
Lunch Period:	One(l) thirty (30)minute per shill (unpaid on day shift,
paid on afternoon shift)
32
Two (2) shills per day in a production department not requiring continuous operation during rest and lunch periods.	
Shift ‘limes: Shill 1	7:00 a.m.to 11:00 a.m. 11:30 a m. to 3:30 p.rn.
Shill 2	3:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. 8:00 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.
Rest Period:	Two (2) lilleen (1 5) minute per shill (paid)
l.unch Period:	One (I) thirty (30)minute per shill (unpaid on day shill, paid on aflemoon shill)
Two (2)shills per day in a production department requiring continuous machine operation during rest and lunch periods	
Shill limes: Shill 1	7:00 a in. to 3:00 p.m.
Shill 2	3 00 p m to 11:00 p.m
Shill 1	varialnms f> 00 a m lo 2 DO p m 7	OO a in to 3 00 p ill 8	IK) a ill In -t 00 p ill 0 00 a ill to S 00 p ill 10 OOa 111 too 00 p III
RcM l,crn*dN	1	: >nc 11) lilleen (It) niinuie per shill (paid)
1 unth IVriini	1	1 hie 111 thins ()0| inimile per slutt (paid)
lliree (31 shills per da>		
Shill limes	Shill 1	7 IK) a m lo 1 0(1 p m
	Shill 2	1 00 p m lo 11 00 p 111
	Slutt 1	11 IKI p in lo 7 ini a in
11
Kest Periods	(>nc 111 11M niimiK- pci shill Ip.iul)
1 tinch Period	()nc 111 thirty (Mi iiimiilc per shill (paid)
I welvc (121 hours per da) ami lhirrt>-sin (16) hours per week, when three (1) shills (all between 7 a m Sumlj) pud 7 a m the billowing Sunday or it will he twelve {12) hours per day ami Inrtwcighl (4H) hours per week when lour (4) shills bill between 7 a m Sunday ami 7 <i m the following Sunday ait in accordance with the printed schedule
Shill limes	Das . 7 IX) a m lo 7 (Ml p m Night- 7:1X1 p in lo 7 :00 n m
licsl Periods	One 111 fiilcen (15) minute per shill (paid)
l unch Periods:	1 u-o (2) thirl)' (.HI) mimile per shill (paid)
NOTE 1:	
t he timing o! the rest periods in^ all departments are lo he scheduled by the C ompany. An employee will tuinjnally take his first break no earlier than I I !2 hour and no later than .1 hours into his shill. •
NOTE 2:
The present schedules arc as follows:
A or B	Plant Services. Materials 1 fondling excluding Storcskeeper and Caretakers
C	Not presently used
D	Injection. Compression, finishing, Quality Assurance, Storcskeeper am) Caretakers
31
The Company reserves the right to alter any or all of the above schedules by advisingthe employees in the department or job classification concerned and the Union ai least seven (7) calendar days prior to the above shill schedules, unless a shorter period is mutually agreeable to the parties to this Agreement.
The shift schedules as set out in Article 21 may not be changed without a consultation meeting between management mid the Union to discuss alternatives.
Where more than one shill in a department is outlined in this Agreement. Shift 2 and Shift 3 will be filled on a rotation basis if volunteers are not available. Rotations will not be longer than two (2)week intervals.
A new shift starting alter 9 pm. or ending before 8 am. shall includes paid thirty (30) minute lunch break.
NOTE 3:
Notwithstanding the above for the life of this Collective Agreement, except by negotiation:
(a) Injection, Compression. Quality Assurance. Storeskeeper.
and Caretakers who are in the Company's employ as of July 17, 1078 will not he requested to work on a schedule that includes Saturday or Sunday as part of a regular schedule, other than the standard I- shill as defined in this Agreement
I In all other departments, any personnel who are in the Company's employ as of July 17.1078. will not he requested to work on a schedule that includes Saturday or Sunday as part ol a regular schedule
21.03	Overtime hours are those worked in excess bl the standard daily or weekly hours as listed in this Article However, for the purpose of this Article only, overtime hours for Injection, Compression. Quality Assurance. Storeskeeper and Caretaker will he defined as those hours in excess ofllurly-six (Jtil hours per week when three (3) shifts fall between 7 a m Sunday and 7 a in the following Sunday, or forty (40) hours per week when lour (4) shifts tail between 7 a in Sunday and 7 a in the follow mg Sundav
IS
21.04
< Iscrtiinc "ill he paid ,il tliv rule "I (line and one lull (I ' ;l llic employee's regular rale lor lime "orked in excess ol r.'gular sxcckly hours np (o ami including four (41 hours, except in (lie ease ol Sunday or Company recognized holiday "here double I tine "ill apply I line "o ked our lour |4| hours in excess ol rcgulai sxcckly hours "ill he paid at t"o (2) limes die employee's regular rale Nnlssilhxlunihng die lorcgomg. the Maiularil xs cells hours miisl lie "orked subject lo die pros isioiis ol 21 (IX
Should an employee lad locomplcl|: lux slandard uork ueek and dial failure Is run occasioned hi die pros isioiis ol 21 p.V (hen. die abuse oserliine hours, beginning ssilli (hose oscrtiiiie hours m excesji ol lour (4|, shall be forfeited to make up the hours ol the slandard ssork sseek add die hours so I'orleiled shall be pas able at die employee's repul.ir rale
I or the purpose ol Ibis Aniele Sunday shall be:
In jection. Compression. Quality Assurance. Storcskccpcr and Caretaker I rorn 7 a m Sunday to 7 a in Monday
All other dcpunmciils I nun 11 p m Saturday |o I I p in Sunday
21.05	Nolsvithslariding (he provisions ul'21.04 abuse, il c agreed that il an employee ssorks in excess ol their slandard daily hours in any one (I) day and is subsequently presented frum completing his standard ssork week, overtime xx ill be paid il'llutl failure to complete is occasionedhs:
(a)	Company layoff:
(h) illness, provided (hat tjie Company shall have the right to require validation of such illncsjs;
(c)	absence front work for reasonable cause;
(d)	a Company recognized holiday;
(e)	with prior permission	of Company:
(0	lateness up (o one I I)	hour.
21.06	employees are expected to cooperate and perform overtime work when requested
to'do so by the Company. However, no employee will be penalized ifovertirne i s refused.
J6
21.07	1 he Company trill endeavour to distribute overtime as fairly as possible.
21.08	The Company will endeavour to provide employees with at least forty-eight (48) hours notice before scheduling overtime hours.
When overtime extends two (2) hours or more beyond a regular shirt, and overtime notice is not given prior to the current shill, a Meal Allowance of SI0.00 will he paid to employees. The same Meal Allowance will be made to an employee who has been contacted prior to their shill and asked to come to work three (3) hours or more earlier than their regular starting lime.
21.09	lunployces arc required to contact the Human Resources office or their shill supervisor before the start of their regular shirt, if ihe> do not expect to report lo work, or at the latest within one (I) hour alter the start of their regular shirt.
21.10	If an employee is sent home between midnight and b a nt. and does not have private transportationavailablc. the Company will pay taxi fare to the employee's home.
21.11	I ■or overtime work on production machine operations, overtime operators shall be pcrmillcd lo change machines at the end of the regular daily shill provided that request is made prior to shill change and the operator is qualilied lo operate the alternate machine
21.12	In eases of overtime a> an extension ol a normal work day. a paid lilteen (15) immilc break will be provided at the beginning ol Ihc overtime and al the beginning of each two (2) hours worked ilieicallei
21.13	II an employee is reassigned Iroui (he slult he woulJ otherwise have been working on loa dillerenl slull lire Company shall givg seven 171 working days nonce I Ins does not apply to changes resulting Irnni switches vciili oilier employees, overtune, normal slult rolalioiis. call'in. layoll. a change agreed lo by'the employee or emergencies which will critically alfccl the iipcraiinn of the dcpunntciii involved
21.14	Principles ofTraining Participation and Pay for Training
I.	I raining is a shared responsibility between the Company and employee
and both parties hcnclil Iroui Ihc .training
t 7
2.	P.irliiip.itinn in 11.lining	inlside nl niinn.il	milking	In mis is	loluul.irs
csicpt uInn training i	pr imar ill as	required	In	legist.ilnm	Sm.li
luinmg mil he nhciliil il mill (he li'.isi disruption in the cmpluicc's personal time as possih ■
Company Initialed I raining
.V	An employee mini veil i lr;iiniii|> mil he paid al the employee's regular
hi mill rale Shill prenn ins mil apple il the naming occurs during the einplinee's inifinal "II" ir slnll
4.	I raining pnnidcd Ini ei ployecs within llic plain nr in Midland mil he
sdiedulcd in llic Inllnu ig order nl preference
a| during regular si	II
b) mlhm sthcdulci	mirk week
e) he; nnd llic sehei a led mirk iseek
5.
6.
In all eases pas lor Com laity initiated training shall he al straight time and lime spenl in Iran mg Mill not he ennsidered lime mirked tor neemme calculation f unding that the cumhmed hours spent in training and hours mirk d do nut esceed sis (hi Ilnurs met the regular scheduled mirk week n an; one (I I neck In the event that such combined hours esceed the regular scheduled mirk iseek and die sis (h) hours allnnance. t >rmal uiertime rales ssill <ippl> to hours in eseess of the abuse
Where Company spoils ired training lakes place outside Midland (ie Name, I oronlo. Detroit, etc.) an employee may he required lo (ravel oil their osvn time. If such training takes place over a continuous number ol days, the employee will normally be paid lor eight (8) hours per day regardless of whether t(ic training is longer or shorter than eight (8) hours per day.
Employee Initiated Courses
7.	VUiere an employee imitates participation in a course with potential
work related bentflt but also for their own personal upgrading and
38
advancement, the cniplo>cc will be advanced funds for tuition and hooks up front. If the employee s|iows proof of successful completion, the advance will be forgiven. If the course is not successfully completed. 50% ofthe advance wi 11 be forgiven and the other 50% will he repaid to the Company.
Time spent in the employee initialed courses will not be paid. In order to be entitled lor reimbursement there must be advance written approval by the tluman Resourcesoflice. Determination ofwhether the course has work-related benefit will be the sole judgment ofthe tluman Resources oflice.
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
22.01	All full-time employees who qualify underthelerms ofthe underwriters contracts shall become eligible lor Company paid benefits on the first day following the forty-filth day worked. A twelve (12) hour shift w ill be considered as one and a half (I Vi) days worked for the purpose of seniority.
22.02	Ihe Company will provide and pay the full cost of the following employee benefits for ail eligible employees and eligible dependents as "defined" in the agreements or contracts between Ihe Company and the Contract Holders In the ease of premium tosl reduction on any Company paid benefits, the Company will receive the benefit of live decrease
22.0.1 Schedule ul Company paid benefits
la) Aetna Healthcare dormerIv IJ Blue Crossl including setni-private hospital and a one dollai til (Mil deductible prescription drug provision (or equivalent coverage with another insurer), and including a Jllll) lit) per person annual Chiropractic benefit in insurer's standard terms
(b) Aetna (or equivalent) Denial Plan fixed at 1005 DIM until September JO. IOOg from I Mohcr I. IOOK until September 30. 1000. fixed at lOOhOUA rjtex I license October I. I0OO until September 30, 2000. fixed at 1007 t)|)A rales and coverage will include 73% coverage lor Kooi Canals and I >eiilures lo a maximum ol it .000IX) per person each 3b mnnlli period
(c)	droop l.ifc Insurance j>ncl Accidental Death and Dismemberment
(A I) .null) I'lanl In .i|ma\imum <>l $22 .'(III lid
(d) Sickness and Arrldrn I Ilcncfll
(*)
(0
(8)
(i)
I or compcnsahl accidents lire employee mil receive normal wages lor rcmai ler of shill on das of accident.
(ii)
In cases ot non-i Company, upon will reimbursed beginning on th< das of sickness, three (!) du> w waived it the sic
inpcnsahlc disability or sickness, the insuring ;rilication of coni muons disabilil) or illness. emplo)ec ftft-lO’i of their basic rate of pay. 1st day of accident or hospitalization, the -4th :ontinuingto the end of the 26th week the ling period for the sickness benefit will be ness lasts two (2) calendar weeks or more
One thousand (Sl.OOt )0) dollars, paid up l ife Insurance upon retirement age 60, pros ling the retiring employee has at least littccn < IS) years continuous s -vice with the Company
Ihc Company will pa; ire and thcll insurance on employ ee owned tools while on the Conti ny premises Coverage will he limited to the deductible and maxima i rales and the scheduling requirements.
Vision Care to a maxin m of SI 00 00 per person every two (2) years effective October I Id h
22.04 The Company provides a "Co Iributory" Pension Plan for all eligible employees Pension benefits svi he based on calendar years of service with employee contributions monthly I ased on time worked) as follows:
	Monthly Benefit per Year	Employee Monthly
| Years of Service	of Service	Contribution
[ 1999	$2js.2S	$20.00
1 2000	S36 00	$21.00
40
22.05	Benefits (excluding Pension) coverage during sickness, and injury: During periods of certified sick leave, the Company w ill pay the full cost o f benefits for eligible employees for a minimum of two (2) full calendar months and a maximum of two (2) monthsof benefits for each year of service to a maximum of twelve (12) months.
Bcnelits during period of approved leave of absence will be continued for thirty (30) calendar days only.
Benefits during periods of compensable injury will be paid by the Company
Notwithstanding all circumstances above, extension or continuation of benefit coverage shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Contract Holder.
22.06	I-mployees should contact the Human Kcsourcesoffice to obtain the necessary application forms lor Sickness and Illness Benefits. Ilie Human Resourcesoflice will furnish, if necessary, claim application Ibnns for any other employee benefit.
22.07, Benefits will terminate lor employ ees who are laid off at the end of the month following the month of la) oil' Benefits will recommence at the date ofrehire.
In the case of Healthcare and Dental benefits, these may be carried through the Company on a pay direct basis for the duration of lay oil. for a one (I) year period only.
Premiums for these benefits will be the responsibility of the employee, who must make the appropriate arrangements through die Human Kcsources office Premiums lor the month in which a rchire occurs will be shared by the Company and the employee, pro-rated according to the number ol days the employee was actually employed during the month ol recall
AM'lOJi U -SAtm AMi litALUl
2.1.01 I he Company agrees to make reasonable pros isioiis lor die safely and heallli of its employees during their ssorking hours and the I hiioii agrees to axiperale ill the obsersance ol salely rules and regulations ol die Company
•II
I lie Company agrees that I lie Said' ill' one (1)1 iniin representative representative shall he certified r Company Committee represenlati departments I Ills Committee will and Salelv Ail ol (tntario l< S (I I sale!) ol employees lor the dtirali
23.02 I mptoyecs with one (11 year's sen liiotwear will he allowed a subsidy in any one (11 year period as lolli
I lie Company will pa) t tonmasimomol seven! up to a maximum ol I price, whichever is the
I lie Compan) will pro' per vear. where requiret designated by the Com
• Committee will meet monthly A minimum Iron) each plant and one 111 Management embers and that one (1)1 hiion and one 111 e shall do a montlilv salelv inspection ol all cl in accordance w illi the (Iceupational I lealtli mil in all matters pertaining to the health and n ol the Collective Agreement.
irit) or more who are required to wear salelv d a maximum ol two (2) pair ol salelv shoes
e 100% cost of'the first pair of sale!) shoes up ($70.00) dollars, and the cost ol a second pair rty ($4000) dollars or 50% ol the purchase isscr.
dc one (I) pair of prescription sul'cly glasses to each employee. Design and supplier to he iny.
24.02	lixcepl ns otherwise provided, an} notices which either puny desires to give the other shall he given hy registered [mail
(a)	In the Compnnyf
Waltec Plastics |nc 320 lili/ahelh Sired MIDI ANI), Ontario MR 41.6
42
(b)	I n the l Inion
Ontario Joint Council Oflke UNITE*
15 (iervais Drive Suite 700
IX)N MII.I.S, Ontario M3C IY8
(c)	To the President, UNITl, local 1476 Currently
MIDLAND. Ontario
25.01	this Agreement shall be considered cITcclivc from September 20, 1998 to September 19, 2000 inclusive, arid shell automatically continue thereafter lor annual periods of one 11) year each, unless cither parly notifies the other in writing within the period of ninety (Y0) calendar days before the date of expiry that it desires to amend or terminate the Agreement, and negotiations shall start w ithin till ceil (15) calendar days following such nolilicatinn
25.02	lithe parties enter into ncgoiialions for ihc purpose of amending this Agreement and agreement to the renewal ol amendment of this Agreement is not reached prior to the normal Iciminuiion dale hereol. the termmaiion of this Agreement shall he automatically extended until eonsuMimaliou ol a new Agreement or completion of the conciliation proceedings prescribed under the I ahour Relations Ael. I9KII n| the I'rosnice ol i liilano and fourieen 1141 calendar days lollowmg issuance ol the t ouciliulion Hoards repent thcreundci HI any |. whichexcr should occur lirst
Hits instrument and the exhibits attached hereto and made pan hereof'constitute the entire agreement between the panics
IN WITNKSS WIIKKI'.OK each ol Ihc panics hereto has caused this Agreement to he signed by their duly aulhori/ed icptcwni.nocs as id ilos	day
ol .................. . Id
41
K)K WA1.1 I'l.AM l( S |\(
I 1)1 SJAKDINS. I MCI OYI I Kl I MR INS ( ( H IKDINA IOK A MUDDI . I'KI-SIDI N I
I) Wl IISII R. I INANCIAI MANA(il R llll Kl I A(il! OIACII I’, iilIK I. I'.MI’I OYI I COMI’I NSAIIONlCOOKDlNAIOR
44
FOR UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES, AFL-CIO, CLC, LOCAL 1476
J. BRUNEI.I.E, PRESIDENT
1). MALONEY, VICE PRES1DEN1
K MURI’IIY, SERGEANT-AT-ARMS
I.. ADEI.A, NEGOTIATING MEMBER
B. ZAIIREBEI.NY. NEGOTIATING MEMBER
FOR THE ONTARIO JOINT COUNCIL, UNITE, AFL-CIO, CLC
I) J CARDY. Rl GIONAI Rl PRI SI NIAIIV1
wa<;k \m ndix
I lie starting MU' lor ,m emplos ee «jin hus changed clasMlicalitai shall he I lie nesl rale leiel loner Ilian llieir current rale lei el. euepi nliere lire etnplo) ee hail previously allametl (lie lop rale lor thetr nen elassiliealion In no mslanee will the employee receive any loner rale nhen moving to a higher classification
I he nape progression elleelne Seplemhcr III, 1444, as a “« ol the lop rale lor each elassiliealion shall he
on hiring	RR%
after 4 months worked i	<12%
alter 4 months worked t	47%
atler 12 months worked	11)0%
Oil September 20, 1444, no employ ee will have their rale reduced as a result of implementing this revised wage progression
46
APPENDIX "A" WAGE SCHEDULE
SEPTEMBER 20, 1998 - SEPTEMBER 19,1999
	HIRING	3 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	9 MONTHS |
				
Compression Operator	12.34	12.88	13.28	13.68
Tech. Grade 3	12.85	13.42	13.86	14.26
Tech. Grade 2	13.92	14.53	14.99	15.46
l ech, (trade 1	15.05	15.73	16 24	16.76
l earn l eader				-i^ri
Co-Ordinator				18.60
				
1 inisher	12 21	12 73	13 15	13.55
Silkscrcener	12 24	12 79	13 18	13.59
I cell, (iradc 3	12 79	11 lb	13 78	14 20
l ech (iradc 2	1) 21	11 83	14 26	14.71
Tech, (iradc 1	14 19	14 81	15 29	15 76
leant 1 eader				16 18
Spray I’utnter 2	12 34	12 8ft	13 28	13 68
Spray Painter 1	12 7(1	13 28	13 71	14 12
L				
j Injection Operator	12 21	12 73	1) 15	13 55
| Grinding leclt	12 85	1142	11 86	14 26
lech Grade 1	12 85	1142	1 3 86	14 26
Sloreskeeper	13 71	14 III	14 77	15 2)
lech. Grade 2	13 92	14 3)	14 99	15 46
	HIKING	j 1 Mt )N 1 IIS	6M< IN MIS	9 MtINIlls
loch Grade 1	IKK	15 71	16 24	16 76
loam leader				17 37
Process Improvement lech		1	 1		17.73 .
				
Stnckhaiullcr 2	12 hi)	13 16	11 58	13 97
Slockhandler 1	12 h<>	13.16	13.58	1397
Slockhandler loam loader				14 49
Co-Ordinator				15.82
				
Caretaker	1221	1273	13.15	13.55
Head Caretaker	12.64	13.20	13.63	14.06
loch. Grade 3	13.26	13.86	14.28	14.73
l och. Grade 2	14 12	14.75	15.22	15.69
Tech. Grade 1	16.01	16.72	17.25	17.78
Maintenance Team Leader				18 4(1
Maintenance Coordinator				20.25
				
Toolmaker Assistant	13.22	13.81	14.25	14.70
Toolmaker Grade 3	15.66	16.36	16.89	17.41
Toolmaker Grade 2	16.66	17.39	17.95	18.51
Toolmaker Grade l	19.32	20.17	20.82	21.46
Toolmaker Team Leader				22.14
Toolmaker Co-Ordinator				23.51
48
	HIKING	3 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	9 MONTHS |
				
inspector (iruilc 3	12.45	13.00	13.42	13.85
Inspector Grade 2	13.69	14.29'	14.75	15.22
Inspector Grade 1	14.13	14.76'	15.24	15.71
| Team l eader				16.32
Am NIMX "B" wagl sniHii'i.i:
SKPTEMHKH 21). 1999 . SKI‘) EMBER H, 21100
	HIKING	4 M< IN II IS	0 Mi IN ms	12 Ml IN II IS
				
('(impression (Ipcrntnr	12 10	12 86	11 56	13.08
Ictli. (irade 1	12 K2	13 40	14 13	14 57
lech, (irude 2	13 90	14 54	15 33	15 80
lech, (irade 1	15 07	15 76	16 62	17 13
Learn Leader				18.13
Co-I Irdinaior				19 36
				
1 ioishcr	12 l«	12 74	13 4.1	13 85
Silkscrcener	1222	12.78	1347	13 89
lech. (irade 3	12 77	13.35	14 07	14 51
l ech, (irade 2	13 23	13 83	14.58	15 03
l ech, (irade 1	14.18	14.82	15.63	16.11
l eani Leader				17.11
Spray Painter 2	12.30	12.86	13.56	13.98
Spray Painter 1	12.70	13.28	14.00	14.43
		12.74		
Injection Operator	12.19 :		13.43	13.85
Grinding Tech	12.82	13:40	14.13	14.57
Tech. Grade 3	12.82 :	13.40	14.13	14.57
Storeskeeper	13.70	14.32	15.10	15.57
Tech. Grade 2	13.90 ;	14.54	15.33	15.80
50
				
	HIRING	4 MONTHS	9 M 0 N T H S	12 MONTHS
Tech. Grade 1	15.07	15.76	16.62	17.13
Team Leader				18.13
Process Improvement lech.				18.48
				
Stockhandler 2	12.57	13.14	13.85	14.28
Stockhandler I	12 57	13 14	13.85	14.28
Stockhandler Team Leader				15.28
Co-Ordinalor				16.61
				
Caretaker	12 19	12 74	13 43	13.85
Head Caretaker	1765	1322		14.37
lech. Crude 3	13 24		14 60	15 05
1 cell (irude 2	14 II		15 56	16 04
lech Grade 1	15 99	16 72	17 62	
Maintenance leant 1 cadcr				19 17
Maintenance Coordinator				21 02
				
1 oolmaker Assisiatil	11 22	11 X2	14 57	15 02
Toolmaker tirade 3	15 t>(i	16 17	17 26	17 79
loolinaker tirade 2	16 til	17 41	IX 15	1X92
loolmaker tirade 1	19 111	2d IX	21 27	21 91
1 oolmaker 1 earn 1 eader				22 91
loolmaker Co-Ordinator				24 10
5 I
1	IIIKINli	4 Ml IN 11 IS	mi in ms	12 Ml IN MIS
				
Inspector < trade \	12 45	1 5 (12	It 71	14.15
Inspector (iraik- ’	H6K	14 .11	15 OH	15.55
Inspector (irailc 1	14 1)	14 78	15 5K	16 06
1 cam 1 eacter				17.(16
52
NOTE 1:
NOTE 2:
NOTE 3:
NOTE 4: NOTE 5: NOTE 6:
NOTE 7:
l	ength of service for Technicians and Toolmakers Tor purposes of wage schedule is dated from appointment to their classification and not length of service w ith Company. Persons in these categories must spend minimum of time in each grade according to the requirements before being tested for reclassification.
Employees transferred in a technical position will receive the top rale of the classilicalion upon successfully completing their exams.
Technicians. Toolmakers or other persons, will, while on a shill not covered by a department supervisor or team leader receive titty ($0.50) cents ($ 1.00 effective September 20, 1999) per hour above their schedule rates, if assigned supervisor responsibility on that shift.
A slock handler driving a single axle truck beyond a radius of twenty-live (25) kilometres from M id la n d will receive 5% (7% effective September 20. 1998) premium above their schedule rate for those hours.
Employee's w riting lechnical exams shall he paid straight lime hourly rate lor the lime prescribed lor the test which will be alter or before regular hours.
Sprav painters, while wearing pressurized painting suits, will receive lilty ($1) 511) cents per hour premium above the schedule rales lor that shill
loolinaker Apprentices will he compensated lor hours worked as a percentage of the loolinaker tirade I rale as lollovss
On Hiring	Ml"«
Alter I scar	hli°«
Alter 2)ears	7(1”.
Alter 3 sears	k(l"«
t Ipon certification	IOOa•
Students will he paid al 75*• ol die scheduled rales
M
Am: ii>ix
.K.T'l'KH OK INTK.N I
111 the esenl ill termination re'ti lug from a plain closure or relocation or a permanent elosiire ol a department. n employee ssho lus completed more Ilian three (l)>ears ol sen lee and sthn is icrni laled. still receit e a separation allotsanee based on Ins her regular liotnls rate as In lotss
(>ne (I) steel ol pas per seat il sersiee tip to a niasinuiin of tssciil) sis (2b) steels I'asincnl still be inadi ssitliin thirls 1101 dass unless olliertsise agreed
I lie I iiiplosioenl Standards Aet. s updated from lime to time, shall be used to determine the enndilinns and restri lions, except as referred to in this letter
54
APPENDIX "D"
INJECTION DEPARTMENT. WEEK-END SHIFTS
I'he technicians, on a voluntary basis, work weekends under the following conditions:
I. "A Shift"
I	I p.m. Thursday
II	p.m. Friday
I I p.m. Saturday
"B Shift"
i pm Iriday llarn Saturday Mam Sunday
7 a.m Friday
I	I a m. Saturday
II	a m. Sunday
I I p in I riday
I	I p in Saturday
II	p m Sunday
8 hours 12 hours 12 hours
8 hours 12 hours 12 hours
2.	reclmicians arc paid liir tuny (40) lioucs work each week with a 6% nighl shift premium for "A" shift and at a 2% premium lor "It” shift (no Saturday or Sunday rates applicable) CO I A Is paid lor lony (40)hours Supervision rates paid lor twenty ■ four (24) hours per week
3.	Holidays tor lechnictans are to he gisen hy eliminating the eight (8) hour I riduy shill lor that week
4.	I laic aie no mould changes or setups pruned I he shifts run machines already setup ssith a \ less to obtaining the maximum number of pjrls I he I eeliructun's responsibilities include considerable pan quality cheeks to ensure that only good pails are produced
3, I lie dural ion ol this shill lor technicians is no moie than vighi (H) cousccuiicc sseeks at one lime
sS
Conditions of work fur operator^:
t. When two (2l luclic f I - I h“ n '.blits .ire mnked they shall he us inllims
"A Shifl"
11	|> m I inlay 11 |i m Saturday
"H Shift"
II a til Saturday II a in Sunday
II	.1 in Saturday
III	a in Sunday
III	p ni Saturday I I p m Sunday
12 Ilnurs 12 Ilnurs
I? Ilnurs I Thoms
2.	Ihe is nr l V, eeh fur employee1 who have seniorily on u regular forty (40) hoar
shift, employed on these week-end shifts, mil he ihirty-livn (32) huurs consisting o| two (2) twelve[ 12) hour weekend shills and one( I) eight (R) hour shirt Ihe eight (R) ho r shill will he one (I) of the regular limy (40) hour shills us determined by lunagcmcnt on a call-in basis. During this shill the employee will work as an operator or any other reasonable required work
J. Itie work week liir employs :s who do not have seniority on a regular limy (40) hour shirt, employed oi these weekend shills will he lucnly-totjr 124) hours consisting ol twu (211 iclve (I!) hour weekend shifts, or sixteen (161 hours, consisting ol two(2)i ighl (Rl hour shifts
4.	Ihe operators arc paid at ihci regular rates with a 6% night shill premium lor "A” shill and at a 2% premiu i for "H" shill (no Saturday or Sunday rateswill be applicable), and regulars! ill rates for the shill worked during the week.
5.	An employee who isswitchit > from any other shill to the weekend shill shall have at least twelve (12) hou' oil'between the end of work on the other shill to the start of work on the weekend shill and the Company may assign employees to start at either I p.m. or I l.a.m. I f the employee has not had at least twelve (12) hours off, I : shall be paid at the overtime rate until twelve (12) hours have elapsed exce it where the employee so requests.
56
Genera)
1.	On each twelve (12)hourshift there will be:
-	one(l) fifteen (IS)minutc rest period (paid)
-	two (2)lhirty (30)minute lunch periods (paid)
2.	for purposes of building up seniority, each eight (8) hours worked will count as one (1) day, provided at least twenty-tour (24) hours are worked on the weekend.
3.	Company recognized holidays, il'cligiblc under the provisions of the contract, will be pard at right (8)hours.
4.	fiach shill will normally consist of one (11 technician. Grade I or 2, plus three (3) operator, running tour (41 machines
REQUESTS tjON VACATIONS
Requests fur l lie )rd. Ilh. ‘■Ill week <>l mlnm mil ho h.irullod through I he employee's Supers isor as follows^ il ninlii.1l consent between parlies cannot he reached
1.	I he Company may delermn the numher nl employees who may he awas from ant classification dopai menl nl any one lime
2.	I'nor lo April 1st. seniority v ill determine the vacation priority.
3.	Aller March list, vacation priority will he determined on a first come basis
In all cases acknowledgment of vacation requests will he given within live (5) scheduled shills
agreement on policy
Policy for pay;
(a) Shortage in wages vyill he corrected hy issuing a cheque or if the amount is small, immediately advancing the estimated "NET PAY" out of Petty Cash funds.' Any advance Hill be deducted from the net week's pay. at which lime the shortage Hill also he coreeled In the event of an employ ccfs oversight the shortage will be adjusted on the nest pa).
(b) Regular pay for the D-l I and 11-7 shills trill be distributed on the Wednesday shill, the Remainder of the employees will receive their pay cheque on their Thurslay shill. If Monday is a holiday, all employees will be paid during tl^ir shill commencing on Thursday.
LETTER OjF AGREEMENT Re: Benefit Administration
There will be a Joint Benefits Committee Management Representatives shall meet with the Union Representatives as required to discuss issues arising out ol administration of the benefit plans.
58
l.ETTER OF AGREEMENT
Re: Spray Painting
For the term of this Agreement, to he entitled to bump into the Spray Painting department, an employee must have previously demonstrated his ability to satisfactorily perform in that department.
The Company shall notify employees that they have an opportunity to demonstrate their ability provided that they have signed up prior to four (4) months before a layolf notice. New employees shall have such opportunity alter six (6) months of employment.
'Ihc employee shall be paid at straight time rates for time spent in such demonstratinn provided that it such lime is outside o f his regular working hours it shall not he deemed to be hours worked for the purpose of overtime calculation.
The operation ot'this letter shall be reviewed every six (6) months
l.ETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
I he I hiio/i acknowledges that the Company may require a medical examination by a Company approved Doctor or Pocmt nl Chiropractic on hiring or transfers between departments
l.ETTER OK UNDERSTANDING RE: FAY FOR UNION REPRESENTATIVES
I	hc appropriate Union Representatives will be paid tor regular scheduled working hours lost on the following business
1.	for negoiialmg meetings vvilh management to a maximum ol eight (til hours per day
2.	for grievance nr discipline meetings as in Aniclc h tin. and for all other meetings called by management
II	such a meeting lakes place outside an employee's normal woikmg hours he shall
he p:ikI ill •>!ratplit lime rates hill ll|,il lime shall not he counted as hours worked
kaki.v rkitkff m’Ai.nirAKF coverage
An employee who retires earls al|cr al least lilleen 1151 sears sersice ami ape 6(1 shall he enlilleil lo partiupale in die Company lleallheare I'lan al their expense In ape (>5
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
I he parlies hereby apree In jointly yxplore iiuhIcIs ul pa) for skills. I he purpose is In assess possible xsii)sol more appropriate!) eneourapinpand rewarding individual initialise and clfnn
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Fhe parlies hereh) apree b joiml) ssork on asystem lor annual empl0)ee reviews I he purpose is lo ensure, dial individuals are properl) elassilied, feedback is given and individual future (raining and development is considered
LETTER OF AGREEMENT Re: O.II.I.P.
If during the life of this Collective jAgreement, the Ontario Government repeals the Employer Health Tax and enacts legislation permuting employers and employees to share the cost of health insurance premiums, it is agreed that the Company will pay Hie full cost of sueh premiums necessary lo maintain the basic level of health insurance provided by the Employer Health I ax.
60
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
He: Military Service
ll'un employee is conscripted to active Canadian Military service the employee will retain existing seniority for a period up to. but not exceeding the seniority before entering active military service. Upon release from military service, the Company will provide, to an employer who retains seniority, an employment opportunity if:
1.	A job similar to the one vaeated on conscription presently tilled by a lesser seniority employee exists.
2.	The employee is able and willing to perform the job
hi