BETWEEN
REEVES BROS, CANADA LIMITED Metropolitan Toronto (hereinafter referred to as “the Company”).
AND
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 664 (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”).
SOURCE	■			
m.	ST		A i	
TERM.	O j		/A J'	i>L w’
No, OF EMPLOYEES		. D F c		
NOMIRE □ 'EMPLOYES				
ARTICLE 1 Purpose
1.01	It is the mutual desire of both parties to promote co-operation and harmony, and to provide an amicable method of settling any differences or grievances which may arise.
ARTICLE 2 Recognition
2.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining
agent for all its employees at its plants within Metropolitan Toronto or a seventy-five (75) mile radius of Toronto City Hall, whichever is greater: save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors and office and sales staff.
(b)	In this agreement wherever the pronoun “HE” or “HIS” is used, it shall be construed to mean any employee, male or female.
ARTICLE 3 Discrimination
3.01	There shall be no discrimination or intimidation of any sort! practiced by the Company by reason of any activity, past or future, of any employee with or in respect to membership or activity in the Union.
3.02	The Company shall not by any means, directly or indirectly persuade or influence, or attempt to persuade or influence, any employee against membership or activity in the Union.
3.03	Neither the Company nor the Union shall discriminate against any ‘employee on account of race, colour, creed, national origin
age or sex.
-l-
3.04	There shall be no intimidation,-'interference, restraint or
coercion exercised or practiced upon any employee by the Union, or by any of its members or representatives, and there shall be no union activity, solicitation, for membership or collection of dues on company time and no meetings on company premises except with the permission of the Company.
ARTICLE 4
Management Rights, '
4.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of
the Companyto:	,
(a)	maintain order, ’discipline and efficiency,
(b)	hire, retire, discharge, suspend, discipline, transfer, classify, promote or demote employees; increase or decrease the working force; assign employees to shifts, provided however that any action taken by the Company with respedt to discharge, suspensionor discipline shall be for reasonable cause;
(c)	generally manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of its plants, the products to be manufactured, the services to be supplied, the methods of operation and production, the schedules. of production, the kinds and locations of
■■	.	tools and machines to be used, the process of manufacturing
and assembling, the delivering and servicing of its products, the determination of work standards, the determination of quality standards, and the control of material and parts to be used 'in its products;
(d)	establish and promulgate reasonable plant rules and
regulations, and such rules will be discussed with the union committee. prior to their implementation.
4.02	. The exercise by the Company of the functions set forth in Section
4.01	shall be subject to other applicable provisions of this Agreement, and shall not be inconsistent with them.
ARTICLE 5 Union Security
5.01	All present employees and all employees hired hereafter will be • required to become members of the Union, and to maintain their
membership for the duration of this agreement and any renewal or extension thereof. All present and future employees in the bargaining unit shall be required to sign dues deduction authorization forms which shall be irrevocable for the duration of this agreement and any renewal or extension thereof.
5.02	The Company will deduct regular monthly dues as fixed by the
International Constitution starting in the month following the date of hire. The first deduction shall be double the regular dues to- cover, new member fees. The Union will notify the Company in writing of any change in the amount of the regular dues.	/
2
i
5.03	The Company will promptly /'remit the dues to the Treasurer of Local 664U.R.C.L. and' P.W.A. within fifteen (15) days of the date of deduction accompanied by the following information;
(a)	From whose pay deductions, have been made and the amount.
(b)	From whose pay no deductions have been made and the
reason why no deductions have been made.	1
(c)	Those who have left the employ of the Company.
(d)	A properly filled out check-off certification form supplied by the Union will be sent with the first dues payments of new members.
(e)	A properly filled out dues deduction form as supplied
by the Union to be sent with the first dues payments of new members.	1
(f)	A properly filled our application for membership card as supplied by the Union to be sent with the first dues payments of new members.
5.04	The Union will save the Company harmless in respect of all. ' deductions and remittances made pursuant to this article. '
ARTICLE 6
No Strike or Lock-out
6/01 The Union and its members, individually and collectively, . undertake that: neither will cause, authorize or take part
in any strike, work stoppage, sit down, slow-down or any other collective activity which will restrict, limit or interfere with the operations of the Company or the manufacturing of its products during the term of this agreement. The Company agrees that there will be no lock-out of its employees during the term of this agreement.
ARTICLE 7 Representation
7.01	The Company will recognize a negotiating committee consisting
of three (3) employees, one of whom will- be chairman. The Company will also recognize a maximum .of twelve (12) ?tewards to represent employees in designated zones. The Union will notify the Company in writing of the names of the negotiating committee and any stewards and of any changes thereto as they occur.
7.02	It is recognized that, a steward (or until such time as stewards are appointed, a committeeman) may be from time to time required to investigate or process a grievance but he shall, under no circumstances, leave his regular duties for this purpose without first obtaining the permission of his supervisor and giving such reasonable explanation as is required of him.
He shall report back to his supervisor before resuming his regular duties. The steward or committeeman as the case may be, shall suffer no loss of pay in respect of such absence, provided he has complied with any condition laid down relevant thereto by -his supervisor, and provided that the duration of
his absence is not unreasonably long in the circumstances
obtaining.
-3-
P-
7.03	(a) An employee who is being disciplined must request the presence of a Union Steward at the time of a disciplinary meeting.
.03 (b) When a Union Steward is not available for a disciplinary meeting, the Union President, Vice President, or other designated officer must be required to attend.
8.01
8.02
8.03
8.04
ARTICLE 8
Grievance Procedure
An employee with a complaint must, accompanied by a steward, first discuss it with his supervisor and give the latter an opportunity to settle it. If. the supervisor’s disposition of the complaint is not satisfactory to the employee, the following procedure will be followed:
Step No 1
If the supervisor’s disposition of the complaint is not satisfactory 1 to the employee, the aggrieved employee accompanied by a steward must proceed with the grievance'- to the department head for discussion and possible resolution . Failing satisfactory resolution by the department head, the complaint will be committed to writing as a grievance and signed in triplicate by the employee and steward.
The original shall be presented in such written form to the department head with a copy to Personnel and a copy to be retained by the Union, within ten(10l working days of the cause of the grievance. The department head shall give his reply in writing within two (2) working days after the grievance has been received by him.
Step No 2
Failing settlement the grievance will be submitted within two (2) working days after receipt of the supervisor’s written reply to the Plant Manager, or a person nominated by the Company management, who will convene a meeting of the Union and Company representative within three (3) working days, from the date of the submission of the grievance (or at other mutually agreed upon time) to discuss the grievance. An International Representative of the Union may be present at this stage. The Plant Manager, or a person nominated by the Company management will render the Company’s decision in writing with reasons being given within five (5) working days from the date of the meeting.
A claim by an employee with ■•Seniority that he has been discharged or suspended without reasonable cause shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement to that effect is lodged with the Company within three (3) working days after the employee ceases to work. The preliminary setps of the grievance procedure will be eliminated in such cases, and the procession of the grievance will commence with Step No 2. A discharged employee will be allowed a brief interview with a steward before he is required to leave the Company’s premises.
The Company agrees to advise the President or in his absence the VicePresident whem employees are disciplined, discharged, suspended, transferred, recalled, laid-off, reclassified or promoted to another job. Such information will be given to the President or, in his absence, the Vice-President in writing at the time the employee is informed or immediately afterwards.
4-
ARTICLE 9 Arbitration
’.01
9.02
9.03
Failing settlement of a grievance under the procedure set forth in Article 8, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration provided written notification to that effect is given within twenty-five (25) working days after receipt of the decision of the Plant Manager, or a person nominated by the Company Management. A Board of arbitration shall be established as provided under Section 44 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act (1980). The parties recognize the arbitration provision under Section 45 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act (1980) and that either party may pursue the requirements of that legislation and comply with its provisions as set out therein.
The arbitration board shall have no power to alter or amend any of the provisions of this agreement, or to substitute any new provisions for existing provisions, or to give any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement.
An arbitration board established to deal with a discharge grievance, may resolve the issue by confirming the Company’s action, or by reinstating the employee with full or partial compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which it deems to be just and equitable in the circumstances.
9.04	No person may be nominated to a board of arbitration who has, directly. or indirectly, attempted to negotiate or settle the grievance in
dispute.
9.05	The fee and expenses of the chairman of the arbitration board shall be shared equally by the parties.
ARTICLE 10 Seniority
10.01	an employee will be considered probationary and will not acquire
seniority until he has worked for the Company for a total of sixty (60) scheduled work days and must work the complete daily schedule which must be aggregated within a six (6) month period. The employee’s seniority date will be the date of hire.
(a)	A Company paid medical will be taken before Company seniority is attained.
(b)	Employees, who are hired as students and identified as students shall
not acquire seniority. At the discretion of management, such employees may become full-time employees if openings occur, and will gain seniority from the last continuous starting date. He shall be credited with such seniority after completing a sixty (60) working day probationary period as explained in this article.
(c)	An employee’s pay rate shall move from “entry level” to the bottom of
“Job Class No.2" after he had worked for the Company for a total of forty (40) scheduled work days,	-
10.02	Seniority will be based on service with the Company and will apply'on
a plant-wide basis except in relation to lay-offs and recalls when it will apply on a group basis.	'	‘
?
will be two
i
i
. 10.03
10.04
For the purpose of applying seniority, there (2) groups:
GROUP 1 SKILLED MAINTENANCE AND , GROUP 2 - OTHER EMPLOYEES
which will be divided into thir<fceen(13)classes as follows
CLASS 1
CLASS 2 CLASS 3 CLASS 4 CLASS 5 CLASS' 6
CLASS 7
'CLASS 8
CLASS FI CLASS F2 CLASS F3 CLASS F4
"CLASS F5
In the event that an employee is permanently transferred from Group 1 to Group 2 or vice versa, his. seniority as far as its group application is concerned, will cease to apply within his former group and will apply immediately in the group, to which he has been transferred.	'
10.05	(a) Lay-offs and recalls .shall be by group. Lay-offs shall
be made in reverse order of seniority within the group and class effected. .The following procedures will be followed:
(1)	Probationary employees will be laid off first.
(2)	Employees with the least plant seniority in the
classification effected will be laid off.
(3)	If such employee has more plant seniority than employees in other classifications and if qualified to perform the job, he may displace those employees. 8uch employee may displace a junior employee in a higher class if he has previously held such job or accumulated thirty (30) working days on such job, otherwise he may only displace
those in the same class or lower classes.
(4)	If an employee exercises seniority. rights in the above
manner and is not able-to perform the job, such employee will be laid off.
When the Company is recalling employees and no answer is received, a Union officeror designated employee will be notified to be present when the next call is made. Laid-off employees shall be recalled before new employees are hired
provided they have the necessary skill and ability to perform the work available.
I
ci.
-6-
(b)	Subject to the provisions of this agreement: at such time or times as the Company recalls the working force so .laid off, the. same procedure asdescribed above-shall be followed with respect to a lay-off except that the employees shall, be recalled in reverse order of lay-off, subject to the capability of the employee to do the particular job, and the employees shall return to their classification of work within the group i n accordance with their seniority. During periods of lay-ofl. before the Company hires new employees, they will first offer any vacancy to seniority employees who are laid off and have the ability to perform the work. If all employees on lay-off refuse such vacancy, the Company may hire new employees. Employees on lay-off shall have the right to refuse recall on jobs other than in the classification within the department in which their seniority applies. In the case of recall, laid-off or displaced employees may be assigned available work immediately but must be returned to their previous job at the . first shift change_._l
(c)	. The Union will be notified of persons to be laid off or to be recalled.
(d)	The Company shall notify an employee no later than the midpoint of' the shift two (-2) working days prior to the day no work is available. Excepting the midnight shift employees who would be advised at the start of the shift prior to the day no work is available.
(a)	Promotional opportunities of a permanent nature (that is of anticipated duration of more than thirty (30) calendar days) will be posted for three (3) working days on the plant's bulletin boards.' A copy of the job posting will be given to the Union within one (1) working day from the date of posting. Absences due to vacation or a.leave of absence for less than three (3) months shall not create vacancies for the purpose of administering this section.
(b)	Employees will be' eligible to apply from:
-• a lower rated job class - the same job class only if the posting is for a steady day shift job.
In addition, an employee with ten (10) or more years seniority shall be allowed to bid down to a steady day shift job.
(c)	Application, which shall be in writing, must be made within three (3) working days. Applications will be_considered primarily on the basis of skill, ability and qualifications, and as among two or more applicants who are relatively equal in that respect, seniority will govern.
I.
10.06
7
. , w
’ The successful applicant will be personally notified prior to plant wide posting within three (3) working days after the expiry date of the job posting. Such employee will be placed on the j'ob no later than five (5) working days from the date of such posting and/or paid the rate of the job, unless the job is not available due to circumstances outside managements’control and explained‘to the union.
In addition, the Union President will be notified of the successful and all unsuccessful applicants. 1
:J.. . (e)
. The successful applicant will be given a probationary period
of:
- thirty (30) working days if the job is with group 2
This probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties in cases where an additional short period of
time would be advantageous to the employee and the Company.
~ six (6) months if the job is-within group 1	__________
(f) A successful applicant may not apply for any further promotional opportunity for a period of three (3) months.
(g)	In the event that an employee, transferred as the result of the provisions of this section, becomes, in the opinion of the Company, unsuccessful in his new position during the	-
probationary period, he shall .be returned to his former	.
position and have bidding rights restored.
If an employee wishes to return to his former position during the probationary period, he will be allowed to do so with _ proper notification to the supervisor. The said employee may not apply for any further promotional opportunity for a period of three (3) months from the start date of his successful application.
If an employee wishes to return to his former position after completing his probationary period, he will not be allowed to do so unless proper medical documentation, dictates he leave the job. The said employee will have bidding rights restored.
10.07	A person in the employ of the Company outside the bargaining unit who has previously been in the employ of the Company •	within the bargaining unit, or what is now the bargaining unit,
shall, if he is transferred back to a position within the bargaining unit, be credited with the seniority he had at the time of his transfer outside the bargaining unit plus the amount of time he spent outside the bargaining unit to a maximum of two (2) years.
10.08	A seniority list will be compiled by the Company and posted
.	on the bulletin boards. Revised lists will be posted every
6 months. The Union will be supplied with two (2) copies of the seniority lists every four (4) months.
r
/
-8-
■ I
l
10.09
An employee shall lose his seniority for the following reasons:-
(a) Voluntarily quitting
(b)	Discharge not reversed through the grievance procedure.
(c) If, after; being notified by the Company to return to work, he fails to notify the Company within two (2) working day:;, after such notification is given, that he intends to return to work. Such notification will be done by phone call witnessed by an official designated by the Union. The phone call will be followed up with a registered letter. In the case of the phone call not being completed the registered letter will serve as notification.
(d)	If. he fails to return to work within five (5) working days after the furnishes the Company.
(e)	If he absents himself without leave or overstays an authorized
leave of absence unless he provides a reason for such absence which is satisfactory to the Company.	'
(f)	If he has not been actively employed by the Company by reason of lay-off for a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive months.
Company, has notified him to do so, unless he	,
reasons ’for his failure which are satisfactory to
10.10
10.11
10.12
An employee absent due to illness or non-compensable injury will retain his seniority for a period equal to his seniority,at the start of the absence or for one (1) year, whichever is ' greater, and at the completion of his absence due to illness, compensable or non-compensable injury, he shall return to the job class which he held provided he is capable ofper forming the work required to be done. An employee absent due to a compensable injurywill retain his seniority until such time as he is re-employed.
Subject to the provisions of Section 10.09 (f) and Section 10.10, seniority will continue .to accumulate during lay-off and during
absence due to illness, injury and authorized leave of absence.
While an employee is absent for any reason (except for legitimate compensable injury) approved leave of absence, Union business, or bereavement leave) his disciplinary status will be "put-on-hold" until his return to work; at which time it will resume where it .
l6ft °ff''	ARTICLE 11
Leave of Absence’
11.01	The Company may grant an employee leave of absence without pay for legitimate personal reasons including illness or accident. Such leave if granted will be confirmed to the employee concerned in writing.
11.02	The Company may also grant leave of absence for attendance at Union conventions or conferences, Such leave shall not be unreasonably refused but shall in no circumstances extend to more than four (4) employees at any one time and shall not exceed eighty (80) man days in aggregate in any one year. Suchleaveif granted shall be confirmed to the employee concerned in writing.
9
'me company win grant an employee up to tnree ciays
bereavement leave from his scheduled work days with pay in the event of the'death of the employee's spouse, father, mother, child and ■ talso child or children who live in a parent child relationship, brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparents, brother-in-law, sister-in-law son-in-law, and daughter-in-law. -The granting of such leave will be conditional on the employee attending the funeral or being responsible for the funeral arrangements.
If an employee does not attend the' funeral the company will award one (1) day bereavement leave and pay.
The Company will pay an employee the difference between a regular day's pay and any court witness or jury pay lie receives for any day on which he is unable to perform his regular work because of jury service. Any vouchers relating to his jury duty or jury pay will be produced -by the employee at the reguest of the Company.
Leave of absence will be granted for pregnancy for a period not exceeding six (6) months.	,
Such leave will commence not later than two (2) months prior to the anticipated delivery date unless the employee produces medical documentation which-is acceptable by management that she may work beyond that time.
The employee will -return to work no later than three (3) months following the birth, unless the employee's doctor produces acceptable documentation reguesting an extension of such leave. Failure to abide by the terms of this section will result in termination of employment.
11.04
u
11.05
11.06	An employee who is injured during working hours as a result of an occupational injury and who is unable to continue to work as a result of such injury shall be paid for the balance of the regular shift at his straight time hourly rate for such unworked hours, as well as time reguired to visit the hospital or doctor.
ARTICLE 12
Bulletin Board
12.01	The Company will provide bulletin boards. at appropriate locations in the plants for the use of ’the Union. Matters posted shall be restricted to:-
(a)	notices of Union Meetings;,
(b)	notices of Union Elections or Appointments;
(c)	notices of results"' of Union elections;
(d)	notices of Union recreational and social activities.
#
12.02	All such notices must be approved and initialled by the General Manager or the Director of Industrial Relations prior to posting.
12.03	There shall be no other general distribution or posting by the Union, or the employees of pamphlets, advertising or political matter, ' propaganda notices, or literature of any kind on the Company's property, other than as hereinbefore provided.
10-
ARTICLE 13 Wages
13.ui Effective March 26, 1988 there will be a 5% increase on the rates as on schedule submitted by the Company. The wage rate which includes this increase are set forth in Schedule “A” annexed.
13.02	Effective March 26, 1989 there will	be a	4% increase on the rates as on
schedule submitted by the Company.	The	wage rate	which includes this
increase are set forth in Schedule “A” annexed.
13.03 Effective March 26, 1990 there will be a 4% increase on the rates as
on schedule submitted by the Company. The wage rate which includes this increase are set forth in Schedule “A” annexed.
13.04	Retroactivity, will be paid by separate cheques to all
members on the payroll at the date of ratification based on hours worked,
ARTICLE 14
Hours Worked and Overtime
14.01	Nothing in this article is to be construed as a guarantee of any specific
number of hours of work per day or per week.
14.02	For employees working on the three-shift	operation	the regular hours of work,
will .be forty (40) hours per week,	eight	(8) hours	per day, to include a
twenty (20) minute paid lunch period, Monday to Friday inclusive. For others the regular hours of work will be forty (40) hours per week, eight (8) hours per day with a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period, Monday to Friday inclusive. The day shift will start not prior to 7:00 o’clock a.m. and not later than 8:00 o’clock a.m.
14.03	There will be two (2) paid ten (10) minute rest periods per day, one in each
half shift.
14.04	All work performed in excess of eight (8) hours within any period of
twenty-four (24) consecutive hours will be paid at the rate of time and one-half.
14.04	All work performed on Saturday will be paid at the rate of time and one-half.
All work performed on Sunday will be paid at the rate of double time.
14.06 (a) Overtime will be distributed as equitably as possible amoung those normally performing the work.
(1)	The employee assigned to the job and shift scheduled will be asked to work.
(2)	If such employee is unable to work the overtime, the off-shift employees
assigned to the same job will be asked in seniority order.
(3)	If such employee (s) are unable to work the overtime, and employee qualified
to perform the job will be asked to work, if such employee has signed a “Weekly Overtime Intent List” which shall be posted by management and explained below.
/ l
14-06	(4) The’ “Intent List” will be posted by Management. This list is posted
for employees to indicate by signature their availability to work overtime outside their own classification. These employees will be chosen for overtime assignments, if qualified, by seniority for open (unfilled) jobs. Management will distribute these overtime opportunities as equitably as possible. This list will be posted Monday noon each week and will be closed Thursday morning. The overtime requirement list will be posted by Wednesday at 3:00 p.m.
(5) An employee whose job is scheduled cannot refuse such job and still be eligible for other jobs.
(b)	Notice of scheduled weekend work for the Maintenance Department
will be posted in conjunction with the Notice for Production weekend requirements.
(c)	Notice of twenty-four (24) hours will be given for scheduled
out of town runs for truck drivers excepting in the course of business an emergency arises.
(d)	Management will develop lists of qualified employees by Job
classification that will be kept up-to-date and checked periodically by the Union. These lists will be kept in seniority order and used to obtain qualified employees to fill open jobs in seniority order.
(e)	Management will develop lists of interested employees
by seniority for those jobs that qualification are met at minimum levels. Those jobs will be agreed upon between management and the Union.
14.07	Overtime rates shall not be paid in respect of any time worked by
employees substituting for one another at their own request, or in respect of any change in an employee’s regular working hours made at his own request.
/I) . ' A
t
14.08	If an employee has completed his regular day's work and
has left the Company’s plants and premises and is thereafter recalled to-perform emergency work he will be guaranteed a minimum of two (2) hours pay at the rate of time and one-half plus,$20 (travel allowance), except; on Sundays when he will be guaranteed a minimum of two (2) hours pay at the rate of double time plus $20 (travel allowance).	'
14.09	An employee who has worked overtime shall not be required to take time off to offset such overtime.
14.10	An employee required to work overtime will be guaranteed one (1) hour's pay. He will receive no break if the overtime does not exceed one (1) hour.
14.11	If the overtime work immediately following a regular shift exceeds one (1) hour the employee will be entitled to one ten (1C) minute paid break period.
14.12	If the overtime work immediately following a regular shift exceeds three (3) hours the employee’will be entitled to paid break periods totalling twenty (20) minutes.
14.13	An employee required to work overtime on a Saturday, Sunday or plant holiday will receive break periods in accordance with Section 14.03.
14.14	An employee reporting for work at his regular time, without having been notified by the Company not to report, shall be given at least four (4) hours work or, if no work i.s available for him, four (4) hours' pay at his regular rate. This provision, however, shall not apply if the lack of work is due to an act of God, fire, flood, explosion, or some such other reason beyond the Company’s control:
ARTICLE'15
, 'PLANT HOLIDAYS
15.01
’	An employee will be-entitled, without rendering service,
to receive a regular day's, pay in respect of each of the following holidays:- , .
New Year's Day Good.. Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day ’Christmas Eve Christmas Day Boxing Day New Year’s Eve
In ’the event that any of the above days fall on a Saturday or Sunday the holiday for the purposes of this agreement, will be deemed to be either the preceding Friday or the following ,Monday.
P3 p
The Company will recognize
-a- 2	.. I-
' an additional statutory holiday0with
' c:
15.02	An employee who is required to work on.a holiday for
which he is entitled to holiday pay under Section 15.01 will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the time worked over 'and above his holiday pay.
’	15.03	"	... ■
In order to qualify for holiday pay for any of the ’ full days listed in Section 15.01 an employee must have worked not less than seven-eiqhts (7/8ths) of a fullshift on the last workinq day precedinq and. not less than seven-eiqhts (7/8ths) of a full shift on the next workinq day followinq the holiday.
The qualifying conditions stipulated in this section will not apply if the absence on any of the days is an authorized leave of absence or is a result of illness or injury evidenced by an acceptable doctor’s certificate, other justifiable reasons acceptable to management or a lay-off that commenced not earlier than the third working day preceding the holdiay.
The "Third Working Day” qualification referred to in the previous sentence will be extended to ten (10) working days in case of Christmas Eve, providing that the employee has completed his probationary period at the commencement of his absence and provided further that the employee returns to work following his absence.
. ’Vacations
16.01	The vacation year shall run from July 1st to June 30th.
16.02	An employee with less than one (1) year's service as at June 30th in any year will receive a vacation based on
the formula-of two (2) weeks' vacation for one (1) year 'of continuous service but prorated to his actual continuous service as at June 30th and calculated to the nearest half day with vacation pay equal to four percent (4%) of his gross earnings to that date.
16.03	An employee with one (1) year but less than five (5) years of continuous service as at June 30th in any year will be entitled to a vacation of two (2) weeks with pay equal to
' four percent (4%)' of his gross annual earnings to that date.
16.04	An employee with five (5) years or more of continuous
service as at June 30th in any year will be entitled to a vacation of three (3) weeks with pay equal to six percent (6%) of his gross annual earningsfor the year to that; date.	.
16.05	An employee with ten •	(i0.) years or more of continuous
service as at June 30th in any year will be entitled to . a vacation of four (4) weeks' pay equal to eight, percent ,	(8%) of, his gross annual .earnings for the year to that
date.	11
-13a
16.06
16.07
16.08
16.09
16.10 16.11
16.12
17.01
17.02
An employee with twenty (20) years or more of continuous service as at June 30th in any year will be entitled to a vacation of five (5) weeks pay equal to ten percent (10%) of his gross earnings for the year to that date.
An employee who reaches his fifth, -tenth or 20th year of continuous service subsequent to June 30th in any year shall be entitled to an additional weeks vacation with pay equal to 2% of his gross annual earnings for the year ending June 30th.
For the purpose of calculating the annual vacation entitlement, OHIP premiums and prior year vacation pay will be added to the regular earnings.
An employee who employment with the Company is severed shall receive in lieu of vacation pay, an amount equal to four percent (4%) or six percent (6%) or eight percent (8%) or 10 percent (10%) (depending on his length of service as at the preceding June 30th) of his gross annual earnings during the period for which he had not previously received vacation pay.
An employee will receive his vacation pay prior to proceeding on vacation.
If an employee is absent due to sickness or injury for a continuous period of not less than four (4) weeks in any vacation year, his total. time off due to sickness or injury will be counted as time worked for the purpose of calculating vaction pay.
In the event of a shutdown of the plants for vacation purposes, all employees, unless otherwise notified must take their vacation during this period. Notice of shutdown will be given not later than April. 15th of the vacation year and after May 15th vacations will not be adjusted,
ARTICLE 17 SHIFT PREMIUM
Effective March 26, 1988 an employee working before and/or after the regular day shift will be paid an off shift premium of thirty three (33£)cents per hour.
The off-shift premium referred to in 17.01 will not be used in the computation of overtime rates
13b
ARTICLE 18 - WELFARE
x8.01
The Company’s Group Insurance Plan comprising of the following benefits will be continued:
(a) Life and A.D. & D. Insurance
Effective :
All employees	March 26, 1988
Life & A.D. &D $25,000
(b) Weekly Sickness and Accident Indemnity effective March 26 , ’ 19 88.
Income Level of Employee
Weekly
Indemnity
Under $19,000
$19,000 but under $20,000 $20,000 but under $21,000 $21,000 and over*^ '(.......
$215.00 $220.00 $225 ,00 $230.00
(b) • Indemnity payable first (1st) day of accident or first (1st) day of sickness in hospital and otherwise fourth (4th) day of sickness for a maximum of thirty-nine (39) weeks. t "Such benefits will not be paid for more than thirty-nine (39) weeks in any fifty-two (52) week period for any one sickness or accident."
;(d) Comprehensive Medical Plan
The .foregoing benefits referred to in Clauses (a), (b), and (c) are detailed in and are subject to the provisions of the Group Master Policy.
m-
ARTICLE 18- WELFARE
(fi) Long Term Disability - provides ’sixty (60%) percent of
*	your basic monthly earnings in effect immediately
prior to the date of disability subject to a maximum , benefit of $2,500.00 per month. This benefit commences after 39 weeks of weekly imdemnity and is payable until you recover or attain age 65.
-18.02 .
1 A laid-off. employee will continue to be covered under the foregoing Group Policy (but excluding the weekly indemnity provisions) until the end of the month following the month of lay-off, at no cost to the employee. If the lay-off extends beyond the above stated period, the employee may opt to continue such coverage for so long .	as he retains seniority, at his own expense.
18.03	The Company will pay 100% of the premiums of the Group Master Policy.
18.04	The Company will pay 100 % of the O.H.IVP Premiums
18.05	Medical Prescriptions will be paid 100% with no deductible.
18.06 The Company Dental Plan:	(similar to Blue Cross #7 Plan plus rider //l)
$25.00 - single - $50.00-familyDeductible
The coverage is for the employees and their families
to a maximum of $1,000 per annum for the employee and each member of his family. The Company dental plan is based on the current annual fee schedule of the Ontario Dental Association in effect.
* January 1,	198 8	-	December	31,	198 8
January 1,	1989	-	December	31,	1989
January 1,	19 90	-	December	31,	19 90
January 1,	1991	-	March 25, 1991.
Preventative & Diagnostic Treatment
Routine.: Oral Examination Cleaning and Scaling Fluoride Treatment Examinations & X-Rays Space Maintainers Emergency Pain Relief Preventative Procedures
Other
Services
Extractions
Oral Surgery	1
Fillings
General Anesthesia Endodonticc Services(root canals Periodontal Services (Treatment of Gum Tissue)
18:07
"Effective for all employees hired after March'26,1985, such benefit will be effective on the anniversary date of the employees seniority with the company”.
Vision Care ~
A maximum of $100.00 in any 24 month period toward the purchase
of prescription eye-glasses for each family member requiring prescription glasses.
/r
ARTICLE .18 I:
PENSION PLAN
tSi08 (A)
1.	Effective March 26, 1988 a pension benefit increase to $8.00 per
month, (an increase of $2.00 per month for each full year of future earned accredited service: , After March 26; 1988.)	( c
2.	Effective March iS89 a pension'benefit increase to $9.00 per
month (an increase of $1.00 per month for each full year of future earned accredited service After March 26> 1989 .)	^
3.	Effective March 26, 1990 a pension benefit increase to $10.00 per month (an increase of $1.00 per month for each full year of future earned accredited service
✓ V» p/	_I_ W-L UU.^11 X W
After March 26, 1990.)
(b)	Normal retirement age 65
(c)	In the event of termination of employment, or disability an employee with at least ten years of accredited service will be eligible for a deferred pension benefit.
(d)	Costs for this Pension Plan are paid for entirely by the Company.
(e)	There will be an option for employees with at least ten years accredited service to elect an actuarily reduced pension benefit paid at age 60
or age 55 with 30 years accredited service.
ARTICE 19 HEALTH AND SAFETY
19.00	The Company will establish a Joint Health & Safety Committee with representation from both Management and the Bargaining Unit as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act and made a part of this agreement as APPENDIX, "B".
19.01	The Company has agreed, upon presentation of a receipt, to pay for the full cost of Safety Footwear, Up to a maximum of $37.00.
This subsidy will be issued once within a one (1) year period, to those employees whose jobs are deemed to require foot protection (see Appendix “A”, Agreement Number 15). If the shoes/boots are damaged or worn out on the job in a period of less than one (1) year, the Company at its discretion may replace the footwear. The subsidy will be reviewed on March 26 in the subsequent year.
ARTICLE 20 - DURATION
20.01	This agreement will remain m force until the 25th day of March 1991 and it shall continue in force from year to year thereafter, unless either party
lys nor less
gives notice m writing to The other, not more than ninety (90) da; than sixty (60) days prior to the 25th day of March 1991 or the anniversary date of any subsequent yearly extension that it desires to terminate or amend the agreement.
SCHEDULE “A”
Job Classifications and Wage Rates
There are thirteen (13) job classes (8 conversion and 5 foamline) plus a skilled maintenance class. These jobs are listed by class with appropriate wage rates, elsewhere in this appendix.
The Company agrees to discuss with the Union, job classifications prior to the establishment of new jobs.
Progression
Progression within all job classes for new employees On Classifications
Not less than low point of range After Three (3) Months
Not less than mid point range After Six (6) Months Top of range Permanent Promotions
The rates paid (for all class changes of one or more) are as follows:
If the employee is at the bottom rate of his class and moves up, he goes to the bottom rate of the new job classification.
If the employee is at the middle or top of his class and moves up, he goes to the mid point of the new job classification and after a period of two (2) months he will be advanced to the top of the classification.
Temporary Transfers
If an employee is moved to another job at the request of the Company and is not fully qualified on the new job, he will be paid at the mid point of the job or his own rate whichever is higher,
If an employee has accumulated thirty (30) working days experience on said job, he will be paid at the top rate of the job or his own rate whichever is higher.
-17-
n ^2.
Group 1 -
CONVERSION
Job Class No. 1
ENTRY LEVEL

Effective March 26, 1988
Effective March 26, 1989
Effective
March 26, 1990
8.50
8.84
9.19
These rates will remain in effect until the employee is placed into a job class. However, in no circumstance will these rates change until the employee has passed 40 working days of his probationary period.
Job Glass No. 2	9.19 - 9.40	9.56 - 9.77	9.94 - 10.16
Furniture Hand Fab Buffing Operator Hand Hot Wire Operator Multi Head Drill Operator
*	Glue Assembler
Convolutor Operator Automotive Hand Fab Flipper Operator Router Operator Thompson Bar Operator Turntable Operator DeWalt Operator Hand Hot Wire Operator Glue Assembler Packer - Furniture Packer - Automotive
Breakdown Helper	,
Shredder Operator Shredder Bagger Vacuum Packer Baler Operator Material Handler Peeler Helper Press Picker Janitor
*	Mattress Gluing:	$.20 'per hour in addition to the published rate.
Job Class No. 3
Vertical Saw - other	9.40 - 9.69	9.77 - 10.08	10.16-10.48
Laminator Side Trim Operator - Auto
Shipper	(" - / rm '
Frank Edge Helper	1 '	^
Hand Cutter Cradle Operator Jumbo Roll Lam. Helper Wind-up Operator
Laminator Cut-off Operator - Auto Mould Handler
** Track Slitter Helper/Assistant Operator
** Slitter Helper:	$.13 per hour in addition to the published rate.
18
Schedule MAM
Group 1 - CONVERSION
Effective	Effective
March 26, 1988 March 26, 1989
Job Class No. 4
*** Head Shipper	9.69 - 9.95	10.08 - 10.35
Vertical Saw - V21 Operator
Sheridan Press Operator	^ ^
Carousel Operator	^	"
Angle Saw Operator
Sample Co-Ordinator
Peeler Operator
Sensomatic Operator
Blend Tank Operator
Fecken Kirfel Operator
Laminator Operator - Hot Melt
Tunnel/Crane Operator
Head Packer
Frank Edge - Cut Off Operator Breakdown Operator Assistant Receiver Fork Lift Operator
*** Furniture Head Shipper, Off-Shift Truck Shunting; $.10 per hour in addition to rate.
Job Class No. 5
Track Slitter Operator Femco 4A6 Operator Automotive Set-up Person Packing Co-Ordinator Frank Edge Operator Receiver
Laminator Operator - Flame Job Class No. 6
Laminator Operator - Automotive Job Class No. 7
Freight Co-Ordinator - Del Trucks Job Class No. 8
Freight Co-Ordinator - Tractors
10.15 -' 10.44,-*-'
(') y f/ is l k
t7‘ - C- -	'
10.42 - 10.70
$ ' ; 0	!! f 3
10.68 - 10.96 0 < &	(f Lf P
10.81 - 11.78
% j :?	/ F V f
10.56 - 10.85
10.83 - 11.13 11.11 - 11.40
11.24 - 12.25
Si
19
Effective
March 26, 1990
10.48 - 10.77
the published 10.98 - 11.29
11.27 - 11.57 11.55 - 11.86
11.69 - 12.74
Schedule “A”
FQTOJfflEl - ________
^	Effective
March 26, 1988
Effective	Effective
March 26, 1989 March 26, 1990
Foamline Wage Rates
Class FI Paper Take-Off
Class F2 Activator Mixer Side Pull-Up Scale Transfer Cut-off Saw
Class F3 Chemical Receiver
Class F4 Assist Operator Class F5 Main Operator
9.73 - 10.02
—	* ^ u %
10.02	- 10.28 ip ?
10.35 - 10.64
t f 0	(?
11.86 - 12.21
O?!'
12.72 - 13.72
■ . tu?
10.12 - 10.42 10.48 - 10.70
10.77 - 11.06
12.33 - 12.70 13.22 - 14.27
10.52 - 10.84 10.84 - 11.12
11.20 - 11.50 12.82 - 13.21 13.75 -’14.84
Group 2 - Maintenance
Maintenance Wage Rates Class Ml Class M2 Class M3 Ciass M4
11.18 - 11.94 12.75 - 13.48
/ a c n 13.86 - U.6f
11.63 - 12.42 13.26 - 14.02 14.41 - 15.19 15.59 - 16.36
12.10 - 12.91 13.79 - 14.58 14.99 - 15.80 16.22 - 17.01
20
MAINTENANCE CLASS 1 MAINTL. *NCE CLASS 2
MAINTENANCE CLASS 3
4
MAINTENANCE CLASS 4
-	Basic Helper Category , ,
-	Junior Mechanic Category
-	Able’ to troubleshoot, diagnose and repair all basic items
-	Intermediate Mechanic-.Category
-	Able to troubleshoot, diagnose and repair all- machines
-	Able to build basics from scratch .•
-	Advances Mechanic Category
-	Able to troubleshoot, diagnose andrepair
. all machines
-	Able .to design and fabricate machines and ’alterations from scratch
An individual who is successful in gaining a promotional opportunity in any of the' first three maintenance classes will be afforded an opportunity to advance to the next'* class if such employee displays the skill, ability and qualifications to be advanced.
This opportunity will not follow the normal bidding procedure.
It is the responsibility of the employee to inform management if outside factors, such as schooling or on-the-job training at any work location other than the company, has been completed in an appropriate craft. Such additional schooling or training will be considered by management regarding this type of advancement.
It is understood that, a Class IV maintenance employee who takes it upon himself to improve his skills with additional training will . be granted a 25C per hour increase, if such skill is either requested by and/or approved by Management,
After one (1) year of service in the Maintenance Department , ^ classified maintenance employee will receive up to $100.00 toolc^ allowance for each year of the contract.	..	..
issued and administered by the Maintenance ^uperm^^(fehet mi a^e tool by, tool basis as required by the -job and substantiated by a receipt.
ji
APPENDIX "A"
Letters of Confirmation .
'Agreement Number 1
The Company agrees to distribute the weekly pay cheques to all wage earners no later than the end of the applicable shifts:
day	shift	-	Thursday day
afternoon	shift	-	Thursday evening
midnight	shift	-	Friday morning	•
In the event that a holiday occurs on Friday, the weekly pay cheques will be issued as early as possible.
Agreement Number 2
Supervisors will not perform any of the work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit unless an emergency situation occurs. If an emergency situation occurs, then work may be performed by the supervisor temporarily so as not to disrupt production.
Agreement Number 3
The Company will issue a separate pay cheque for vacation
pay.
Agreement Number 4
The Company will include on T-4 slips employees' union dues deductions.
Agreement Number 5
The Company agrees that all retro-active pay will be paid , by separate.cheque.	,	.
Agreement Number 6
The Company agrees; to place pay cheques anc^ slips in sealed envelopes before they are distributed.
4
22
APPENDIX "A"
Letters of Confirmation
Agreement Number 7
The Company agrees to maintain the current pay classes for those employees who were effected negatively on job reclassification. It is also agreed that new employees
starting on these jobs will be paid the new lower rates established at the time of negotiations.
Agreement Number 8
The Company agrees to provide insulate^ clothing for the boxcar loaders and will' make protectlva clothing available for employees working in areas^	cou^a
cau se more soiling to clothing than re9u-*-ar duties, or if they are exposed to inclement weathar* ^uca-clothing will be maintained and retainec^ ^y the Company.
Agreement Number 9 '
The Company will not use outside contractors to perform work that in the Company's opinion could be performed by the bargaining unit.
Agreement Number 10
The Company agrees that all new wage - earning employees will be required to complete an application for Union membership card, provided that the Union supplies said applications.
, Agreement Humber 11	.
The Company agrees to ’recognize. u.R.W. Journeyman cards.
Agreement Number 12
The Company reserves the right to produce and deliver samples &prototypes as necessary as long as siichwork . is not currently approved for production. uc e ikeries are those normally made in a passenger car. 1
agreement Number 13
The Company agrees to continue, its p.ragtic£ v°iding disciplinary procedures against an empiuyet: if such an	_
employee has completed six (6) months without an infraction 'In the case>of Safety Violations this period will be extended to twelve (12) months., '
The Company agrees to continue to work with the Provincial Government or other appropriate agencies to set up a Maintenance Mechanic Apprenticeship Program within six (6) months. '
Such Program to be subject to Government regulations and agreed upon between the parties.	.
If existing employees in Maintenance can take advantage of such a program they will be allowed, to better themselves in the same manner. Management agrees to credit them with the time spent in the given trade and place them in the Apprenticeship program in the proper level. ,
The company agrees to make calendars available from
local universities and colleges for the use of interested parties.
^Agreement Niimber 15
Job classifications, that are required to wear proper foot protection:- Automotive set-up
-	Au&motive Laminator crews
-	Fordhouse Laminator crews
-	Receivers
-	Maintenance employees
-	Foamline employees
-	Rebond Blend Tank Operators ' • ‘
-	Rebond Mould Handler ,
~ Janitors
-	Garage Mechanics	••
-	Truck Drivers 1
-	Health &. Safety Committee (while on tour)
^Agreement Number' 16 .
In recognition-of concerns expressed by the union, the company agrees tb re-evaluate specific jobs that are considered to have increased duties and responsibilities.
t
AGREEMENT NUMBER T‘7
IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED THAT REEVES CANADA TRUCK DRIVERS WILL BE CONSIDERED TO BE USED FOR STATE-SIDE TRIPS UNDER EXTREME EMERGENCY ONLY. EVEN THEN, IT WILL BE STRICTLY ON A VOLUNTEER BASIS BY SENIORITY. SHOULD ALL QUALIFIED DRIVERS FAIL TO VOLUNTEER, THEN AN OUTSIDE CARRIER WILL BE USED WITH NO FAULT GIVEN TO ANY
APPENDIX "B" SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section 1	'
The purpose of this Safety and Health Article is to provide effective machinery for the elimination of all work conditions hazardous or potentially hazardous to the health or safety of the employees. ,
Section 2
The Company agrees to furnish each employee employment and a place of employment free from all recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to cause physical harm to the employee. The Company further agrees that the General Duty Clause (Section 14 (l)-(2)-(3) and Section 15 (1) of the Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations for Industrial Establishments shall be abided. .
Section .3
A doint Labour^/Management Safety Corranittee shall be appointed.
The Committee shall be composed of a least three representatives of Management and of a least three representatives of the Local Union. The Union representatives shall be selected by the Local Union. Union and Company membership on the Committee shall be of equal numbers. The Committee shall:
(a)	Meet at least once a month on' a definitely established schedule, to be the third Friday of each month at 2 P.M.
(b)	Make periodic tours of the’ plant but not less frequently than once every month, to, coincide with the monthly meeting. The committee will choose one extra employee per month (by Dept.) to make the plant tour with them.
(c)	Make preliminary industrial hygiene evaluations of exposure to designated substances.
The company shall provide for and maintain appropriate equipment.
(d)	Make recommendations for more. complete industrial hygiene
surveys..
-25-
(e)	Make recommendations for the correction of unsafe or harmful conditions and the elimination of unsafe or
harmful work practices. The Safety Co-Ordinator shall be responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the Joint Labour/Management Safety Committee’s recommendations. All such recommendations shall include a target date for abatement of hazardous condition or
(f)	The Accident Review Board will review and analyze all reports of industrial injury or illness, investigate causes of same, and recommend rules and procedures for the prevention of accidents and. diseases and for the promotion of the health and safety of the employees.
(g)	Promote health and safety education.
(h)	Safety Committee members will be paid applicable hourly earnings for all time spent when meeting jointly with Management and for all required inspection or investigation of safety and health problems in the plant.
,
(i)	Minutes shall be kept of all joint Committee meetings and a written report shall be prepared for review at the next Committee meeting. Such report to be given to the Committee members at least two days prior to the scheduled meeting.
<j) The Company will continue to allow Safety.Committee ,-members to enter the plant for the purpose of
investigating safety and health conditions.
(k) Members of the Safety Committee shall be permitted to attend grievance meetings regarding safety and health problems, if requested.
Section 4
.. Up-to-date accident/injury reports shall be kept and maintained by the company and copies shall be posted on all bulletin boards weekly. A copy of which will be given to a designated union committee member.
Section 5
The Company shall maintain a current file of all materials * in use in itsplants,, including trade name, chemical name and code. Copies of this file shall be made available upon	,
request to members Of the joint labour/Management Safety Committee
(a)	The Company shall identify all toxic materials.
(b)	The Company agrees to abide by the Regulation respecting
Isocyanates-made under the Occupational Health and Safety Act, or any other, future designated substances. ,
26
■i
Section 6
The Unionmembers of the Committee may seek the counsel and assistance of representatives of the URCLPWA International Union and such representatives shall be granted the right t to accompany the Committee on'inspections, attend meetings of the Committee, and make recommendations to the Committee and shall be permitted to make such investigations and physical examinations as may be necessary with the approval of Management,
Section 7
’The Company shall furnish competent medical services and supply adequate facilities for the proper first aid treatment of cases resulting from injury or physical impairments or afflictions obtained while in. the plant.' Copies of the reports of the medical findings made by the Company's medical service or reports of outside medical services used by the Company shall be furnished to the employee. The confidentiality of medical results shall be respected. The company shall provide necessary mutually acceptable biological studies where indicated by potentially hazardous materials.
Section 8
Refusal to work OHSA
Sec 23(3)A worker may refuse to work or do particual work where he has reason to believe that,
(a)	’ any equipment, machine, device or thing he is to use
or operate is likely to endanger himself or another worker.
(b)	The physical condition of the work place or .the part thereof
in which he works or is to work is likely to endanger himself, or
(c)	any equipment, machine, device or thing he is to use or operate or the physical condition of the work place or the part thereof in which he works or is to work is in contravention of this Act or the regulations and such contravention is likely to endanger himself or another(worker.
Sec 23 (4)Upon refusing to work,or do particular work, the worker shall
'	promptly report the circumstances of his refusal to his employer
or supervisor who shall forthwith investigate the report in the presence of the worker and if there is such in the presence of one of,
,	(a) a committee member who represents workers if any
(b)	a health and safety representative if any or
(c)	a worker who because of his knowledge, experience and training is selected by a trade union that represents the worker, or if there is no trade union is selected by the workers to represent them.
who shall be made available and who shall attend without delay.
-27-
,-i.i
Sec. 23 ') Sac.,25 (6)
Until the investigation is completed, the worker shall remain in a safe place near his work station.
Where, following the investigation or any steps taken to deal with the circumstances that caused the worker to refuse to work or do particular work, the worker has reasonable grounds to believe that,
(a)	the equipment, machine, device or thing that was the cause of his refusal to work or do particular work continues to be likely to endanger himself or another worker,
(b)	the physical condition of the work place or the part thereof in which he works continues to be likely to endanger himself; or'
(c)	any equipment, machine, device or thing he is to use or operate or the physical condition of the work place or the part thereof in which he works or is to work is in contravention of this Act or the regulations and such contravention continues to be likely to endanger himself or another worker,
the worker may refuse to work or do the particular work and the employer or the worker or a person on behalf of the employer or worker shall cause an inspector to be notified thereof.
Section 9
No employee is expected to work on any job in the plant with which he is unfamiliar with. Such employee snall receive adequate safety training from his supervisor.
This training shall include information on potential hazards on any material to which he is exposed.
Section 10
. It is recognized that protective equipment and clothing are temporary measures for relief of conditions which must be subject to further corrective measures through engineering changes, or elimination of the hazard involved. The complete cost of all protective equipment shall be borne by the Company, with the exception of Protective Footwear - which is covered under Article 19.01 of this ■ agreement.
-28-
Section 11
The Union agrees to make every reasonable effort to have its members observe all safety and health rules promulgated under this Agreement. The Union and Union members shall act in an advisory capacity in the performance of duties under this section, and it shall remain the exclusive responsibility of the Company to ensure the safety and health of its employees.
Section 12
Management agrees to abide with all aspects of the Occupational Health & Safety Act requirements as outlined in Sec. 28 (3),
28 (5) , and Sec. 29 (6) .
Section 13
The Fire Brigade as established, and shall be maintained and trained and shall conduct evacuation drills periodically.
Section 14
Management agrees to abide with all aspects of the Occupational Health & Safety Act as outlined in the Regulations Respecting _ Designated Substances.
Executed by the duly authorized representatives of the parties this
day of	>, 1988.
FOR THE COMPANY: