COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT 1996 - 2001
between
ABTCO CANADA LIMITED Acton Plant
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS of AMERICA
Local 603, A.F.L. - C.I.O - C.L.C
00764 (05)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS......................................... 1
ARTICLE 2 VALIDITY OF CLAUSES................................. 2
ARTICLE 3 COMPANY RECOGNITION................................. 2
ARTICLE 4 UNION RECOGNITION OF JURISDICTION................... 2
ARTICLE 5 PROBATIONARY PERIOD ................................ 3
ARTICLE 6 CONTRACTS .......................................... 4
ARTICLE 7 OBLIGATIONS ........................................ 4
ARTICLE 8 HOURS OF WORK ...................................... 6
ARTICLE 9 OVERTIME RATES & PREMIUM COMPENSATION
7
ARTICLE 10 VACATIONS ....................................... 10
ARTICLE 11 RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS ............................. 13
ARTICLE 12 CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES ........................14
ARTICLE 13 SENIORITY........................................ 14
ARTICLE 14 TRANSFERS ....................................... 15
ARTICLE 15 PROMOTIONS
16
ARTICLE 16 DEMOTIONS..................................... 17
ARTICLE 17 LATERAL MOVES
18
ARTICLE 18 LAY-OFFS ..
18
ARTICLE 19 JOB POSTING........................................ 19
ARTICLE 20 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ........................... 20
23
24
25 .25
ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS
1.01	COMPANY - ABTCO Canada Limited with respect only to its plants located at Halton Hills (Acton), Ontario.
1.02	UNION - United Steelworkers of America, Local 603, A.F.L. - C.I.O. - C.L.C.
1.03	EMPLOYEE(S) - Any person who is actively at work for the Company whose job places him within the bargaining unit as defined (See Section 4.02) and who has completed the probationary period (SeeSection 5.01). Status as an employee shall be lost for any one of the foilowing reasons:
a)	If an employee quits.
b)	If an employee is discharged for just cause.
c)	If an employee is laid off (See article 18).
d)	If an employee fails to report to work foilowing termination cf authorized leave of absence unless granted further leave of absence by the Company or unless employee can give a valid and acceptable reason for not reporting on the specified day. If a former employee is rehired within 12 months of his loss of status, he will be reinstated as an employee immediately without probationary period.
1.04	A'RTT.TTY - The word "ability" wherever used in this Agreement means knowledge, skill, training, and efficiency.
1.05	PLANT SENIORITY - The period of tine during which the employee has been actively employed in the plant without any of the interruptions which cause loss of seniority as specified in Section 13.04, less any tine spent on lay off during this period in excess of ninety (90) consecutive working days. Plant seniority is accumulated during periods of lay off for up to one year or for a period of time equivalent to the length of his service, whichever is shorter.
1.06	DEPARTMENT SENIORITY - That part of the employee's plant seniority which has been spent in any one department (SeeSection 13.06 and 14.02).
1.07	JOB SENIORITY - That part of the employee's department seniority which has been spent on any job in that department.
1.08	"ABILITY AND SENIORITY" and/or "SENIORITY AND ABILITY" have the same meaning when used in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 2
VALTDTTY OF CLAUSES
2.01	Any provision of this Agreement which may be or may become in conflict with present or future provisions of Federal or Provincial laws, or orders-in Council by same, becomes by that fact null and void without affecting the validity of the remainder of the present Agreement.
ARTICLE 3
COMPANY RECOGNTTTON
3.01	The Union recognizes that the Company retains all the custom ry and normal functions of Management except as they are expressly restricted by the terms of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 4
UNION RECOGNITION & JURISDICTION
4.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union for the purposes of collective bargaining as
the sole bargaining agency, with respect to ail articles included in this Agreement, for all of its employees except those excluded from the bargaining unit (Section 4.02) during the currency of this Agreement.
(b)	Where the masculine pronoun is used herein, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context so applies.
4.02	The present Agreement applies to all persons with employee status except:
(a)	Foreman and persons	above the rank of foreman.
(b)	Office staff.
(c)	Sales staff.
(d)	Technology department.
4.03	Employees outside the bargaining unit will not perform work that is normally done by employees within the bargaining unit. However, this Agreement cannot be construed to prohibit them from doing work for purposes of instruction, experimentation or research or in the case of an emergency, provided a lay-off of bargaining unit employees does not result.
4.04	Any employee who is a member of the Union in good standing shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his membership to the extent of paying membership dues. Any person hired as a new employee and any employee who is hereafter transferred into the Bargaining Unit, shall make application for membership in the Union on the date of employment or transfer and shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues.
The Company shall deduct from the pay of each member of the bargaining unit, weekly, such union dues, fees and assessments as authorized by the Constitution of the Union.
The Company shall remit the amounts so deducted, prior to the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following, by cheque, as directed by the Union, payable to the International Treasurer.
The monthly remittance shall be accompanied by a statement showing the name of each employee from whose pay deductions have been made and the total amount deducted for the month. Such statements shall also list the names cf the employees for whom no deductions have been made and the reasons why, along with any forms required by the International Union.
The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims, suits, judgments, attachments and from any other form of liability as a result of the Company making any deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments and the Union shall refund direct to ail employees from whom a wrongful deduction was made.
4.06	If any employee works less than 40 hours in any one month he shall not be required to pay Union dues for that month unless this policy is changed by the constitution of the United Steelworkers cf America.
ARTICLE 5
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
5.01	Ail employees will be on probation for the first 480 normal working hours of their employment accumulated during a nine (9) month period. The exception to the above being maintenance department personnel who will be on probation for the first 720 normal working hours of their employment accumulated during a nine (9) month period.
5.02	The Company has the right to terminate an employee on probation without recourse on the part of the Union and any such termination cannot constitute a grievance provided
4,05 a)
b)
c)
d)
3
that this right shall not be used for the purpose of discrimination against said employee under the Ontario Human Rights Code or for Union activity.
ARTICLE 6 CONTRACTS
6.01	The Union recognizes that this Agreement cannot be construed to affect contracts or sub-contracts that the Company may award to have work done, nor limit the Company's right to make such contracts or sub-contracts. The Company will recall all laid off Bargaining Unit employees who have the proven skills to perform the proposed contract work prior to using outside sources.
ARTICLE 7 OBLIGATIONS
7.01	The Union will not engage in Union activities during working hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without the permission of the Plant Manager or his representative.
7.02	The Union and the Company agree that there shall be no strikes, slowdowns or lockouts during the currency of this Agreement.
7.03	Should operations cease due to any cause whatsoever, the property of the Company will be maintained in operating condition by the continuance at work of up to seven (7) employees as required. It is also agreed that at no time will the Union exercise either directly or indirectly interference or coercion with a view to preventing employees of the Company who are not covered by this Labour Agreement from entering Company property.
When a shift begins, each employee is required to be at his place. At the end of a shift, no employee is to leave his place until his replacement has reported to take on the responsibility of the job unless said employee can provide an acceptable reason prior to leaving as to why he cannot remain on the job until his replacement arrives. In this event, all machines will be maintained on a productive basis by the crew on hand. If an employee is required to remain at his place, the foreman will obtain a relief as soon as possible.
The Company will pay, upon submission of a receipt, for transportation, when necessary, for employees who are required to remain on duty, pending the arrival of their replacements, to a maximum of $15.00 for employees living outside the municipality of Acton and $5.00 for employees living in the municipality of Acton.
7.04	(a)
(b)
4
7.05	Employees covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to life, disability, and medical benefits as summarized in Appendix "C".
7.06	Written warning notices and suspensions which are to become part cf the employee's record shall be presented to the employee in the presence of the steward or chief steward whenever possible, In the event neither of the above are available a member of the bargaining unit shall be present. It is agreed- that written notices not repeated within a one year period will be canceled. Disciplinary notices and suspensions relating to acts of insubordination that are not repeated within a three year period will be canceled.
7.07	When an employee is discharged the Company agrees to notify him that he may see his Union Steward or an officer of the Union prior to his leaving the premises if he so requests. It is understood that once the employee leaves the premises he may not return without permission from the Company.
7.08	It is agreed that Part XI, Pregnancy and Parental Leave, of the Employment Standards Act, 1990, forms part of this Agreement.
7.09	Should an employee become incapacitated either by age, sickness or injury, and is no longer capable of performing his regular job, as certified by a doctor approved by the Company, the Company shall endeavor to place such employee in another job which he is capable of performing, the job not being higher than his existing classified rate and in accordance with Articles 14, 16 and 17. If no such job is available, the employee will be laid off or if eligible, retired.
7.10	Only the operator shall change the running condition of any production line, but, Maintenance personnel may be required from time to time, in conjunction with the Operator, to change the settings and/or running condition of any production extruder.
7.11	Employees will have the option of contributing to the Union Humanity Fund.
7.12	Company Safety Shoe Policy: The Company may pay for Safety Shoe purchase according to the following schedule:
Maintenance Personnel - Two (2) pair per year on an as needed basis.
Ail Other Personnel - One (1) pair per year
Upon Signing of the New Labour Contract	$80.00/pair
November 1, 1998	$85.00/pair
November 1, 2000	$90.00/pair
7.13	The Company will provide pension benefits as set forth in the ABT CANADA LIMITED PENSION PLAN, January 1, 1996, which is fully incorporated herein by reference. The plan, which will include employee and Company contributions, is
5
effective January 1, 1997. Company contributions may be invested in the same investment options as the employee contributions.
ARTICLE 8
HOURS OF WORK
Nothing contained in this Agreement m general or in this Article in particular, can be construed to indicate that the Company guarantees hours of work per day or days of work per week.
The normal hours of work for all employees either on a rotating or non rotating basis as per established schedule shall be 8 hours per day, 40 hours per calendar week.
8.02	The standard starting time for day shift employees shall not be before 7:00 a.m. and the standard quitting time shall not be later than 5:30 p.m. Not over one hour, without pay will be allowed for lunch.
8.03	The standard starting and quitting time for rotating shift employees will be:
12:00 midnight to 8:00 a.m.
8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight
8.04	The Company will advise the President or Vice-president of the Union of changes in hours of work and shifts when possible 72 hours but not less than 48 hours before making them effective.
8.05	Ali rotating shift employees will be allowed a lunch period not in excess of 20 minutes which will be scheduled so as to maintain production and at a time mutually convenient to the employee and the Company. No employee will be required to work longer than 5 consecutive hours without an eating period.
8.06	When possible, employees from distribution or maintenance who are scheduled to work on weekends or vacation shutdown will be allowed a lunch period not in excess of twenty (20) minutes which will be scheduled at a time mutually convenient to the employee and the Company. No employee will be required to vodc longer than five (5) consecutive hours without an eating period.
8.01	(a)
(b)
6
ARTICLE 9
OVERTIME RATES & PREMIUM COMPENSATION
9.01	(a) overtime rates shall be paid only to employees who are working additionai hours
at the request of the Company and shall not be paid for such extra hours which have been exchanged at the request of employees for their own convenience.
(b)	Overtime work shall be divided as equitably as possible among all employees capable of performing the work at the rate the job entails.
(c)	An employee may be excused from working overtime provided another qualified employee is available to do the work required.
(d)	There will be no pyramiding of overtime pay, or any other add-on or premium rate of pay.
9.02	(a) Employees will be paid overtime compensation for ail work performed in excess
of eight (8) consecutive hours on the basis of one and one-half times their classified rate of pay.
(b)	Employees working a seven (7) day schedule will be paid overtime
compensation for ail work performed on their scheduled first and second days cf rest on the basis of one and one-half times their classified rate of pay. Work performed on their scheduled third day of rest will be compensated on the basis of two times their classified rate of pay.
Employees working on a five (5) day schedule or on non-rotating shifts will be paid overtime compensation for all work performed on Saturday on the basis of one and one-haif times their classified rate of pay.
(d) Employees working on a five (5) day schedule or on non-rotating shifts will be paid overtime compensation at two (2) times their classified rate of pay when they are requested to work between midnight Saturday and midnight Sunday.
(e)	An employee who is required to work weekend overtime and who returns to work after eight (8) hours off will receive two (2) hours of additionai pay at their classified rate provided the employee completes both shifts.
7
%
9.03	It is agreed that when the Company requires a rotating shift employee to change his shift at other than the scheduled rotation time, with less than 16 hours elapsed time between his normal quitting time, and the beginning of his new schedule he will be paid time and one-half his classified rate for ail hours worked on the first shift of the new schedule.
9.04	Compensation at double time the employee's classified rate shall be paid to ail
employees requested to work during the twenty-four (24) hour period from midnight of the day before and midnight of the day celebrated as a holiday recognized by this Agreement in addition to the holiday pay.
9.05	(a) Compensation at one and one-haif times the employee's classified rate shall be
paid to ail employees who are required to return to do other than scheduled overtime work at other than their regular hours provided such non-scheduled work involves an extra trip to the plant. Subject to his proviso they still receive no less than two hours pay ai one and one-haif times their classified rate.
(b)	It is agreed that an allowance of $10.00 will be given to each employee, when called in to work for non scheduled overtime, and who lives over ten (10) miles from the plant.
(c)	Employees who are called in to work prior to the start cf their scheduled shift will be paid one and one-haif times their classified rate for time worked prior to the start of their scheduled shift.
9,06	Employees working on the 4:00 p.m. to midnight shift will be paid the following shift premium effective with the first payroll period on or after:
Upon Signing New Contract November 1, 1997 November 1, 1998 November 1, 1999 November 1, 2000
$0.32/hour
$0.34/hour
$0.36/hour
$0.38/hour
$0.40/hour
9.07
Employees working on the midnight to 8:00 a.m. shift will be paid the following shift premium effective with the first payroll period on or after:
Upon Signing New Contract November 1, 1997 November 1, 1998 November 1, 1999 November 1, 2000
$0.57/hour
$0.58/hour
$0.59/hour
$0.60/hour
$0.61/hour
8
9.08	All employees reporting for scheduled work unless a contrary order from the foreman has been given, will receive five (5) hours pay at his classified rate, provided that the causes for no work being available are within the Company's control. It is understood that the employee may be supplied with alternate work provided the employee has no job related limitations and is qualified to perform the work that is provided.
9.09	It is agreed that when an employee is assigned to work in a job paying a higher rate than his own,he shall be paid the higher rate while occupying Ihe said higher rated job.
9.10	It is agreed that when an employee is assigned at the convenience of the Company, to work in a lower rated job, he will be paid his normal classified rate except when transferred due to reduction of the work force or inability to perform the work.
9.11	In the event an employee is displaced from his regular job as a result of automation, he will be transferred in accordance with Article 16, 17 or 18.
9.12	In the event cf a death cf a member of an employee's family, the Company will grant, upon request a leave of absence tor a reasonable time for the purpose of making funeral arrangements or attending the funeral and will pay for such,lost time as follows:
(a)	Spouse, common-law spouse, child or step-child. up to a maximum of four (4) days. Father, mother, parent-in-law, brother, sister, grandchild or grandparent, up to a maximum of three (3) days. Should the death occur in a place so distant that the bereaved employee cannot make funeral arrangements or attend the funeral, the Company will grant one day wiih pay to mourn the death.
(b)	Brothers and sisters of the spouse or common-law spouse, the day of the funeral.
(c)	These allowances will only be granted where circumstances require the employee's absence from work.
9.13	An employee who is required to serve on a jury, or who is subpoenaed as a witness, shall be paid for difference between the amount paid for such service and his current hourly rate for the time lost from his regularly scheduled work shift by reason of such service subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Employees must notify their supervisor within twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty or when subpoenaed as a witness,
(b)	Any employee called for jury duty or, subpoenaed as a witness, and who is temporarily excused from attendance at court must report for work if four (4) hours or more of time remains to be worked in his shift.
9
(c)	Employees selected for jury duty who are on other than the day shift shall be assigned to the day shift for those days they are required to serve as jurors.
(d)	In order to be eligible for such payments, the employees must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time serviced and the amount of pay received.
9.14	The Company agrees to give a meal allowance of $6.00 to employees who are required to work two hours past their normal quitting time, and to employees called in at least two hours prior to their normal starting time, unless they are given time off to go home for a meal, or were notified on the previous day that such overtime or call in wee scheduled.
9.15	When a paid holiday recognized by this Agreement occurs in the work week it shall be considered as a normal work day for purposes of computing overtime on a weekly basis.
9.16	When an employee on a 7 day schedule is assigned at the Company's convenience onto a job in the 5 day operation paying overtime to 5 day employees performing the same job, he shall be paid the applicable overtime premium pertaining to the said 5 day schedule employees. His classified rate as shown in Appendix A will apply.
ARTICLE 10 VACATIONS
10.01	The vacation period is from January 1st through December 31st,
10.02	Employees are required to have vacation requests submitted by May 1st. Any unscheduled vacation requests submitted thereafter vaH. be taken from the weeks available.
10.03	Vacation earned during the current vacation period must be taken during the vacation period immediately following that in which they are earned. Vacation periods cannot be accumulated.
10.04	After the posting cf the vacation schedule no change will be considered unless the request by the employee is made twenty-one (21) days in advance of the proposed new dates and then only if arrangements can be made with the other employees.
10.05	Additional time off will be granted only if satisfactory arrangements can be made with his immediate foreman and if granted will be without pay. All such requests will be submitted and replied to on the form provided.
10
10.06	Employees with the most plant seniority in the department concerned will be given first consideration in the allotment of time for vacations. The Department Head will arrange the times of vacation as is most convenient for the employees and the Company; the Company will endeavor to grant as many employees as possible two wa^cs of their vacation during the months of July or August. Eligible employees who request more than two consecutive weeks vacation will be granted their requests provided the production will not be unduly affected.
10.07	When a paid recognized holiday fails within an employee's vacation it will be paid for in accordance with section 11.02, in addition to his vacation pay but extra time off will be allowed only if requested prior to employees proceeding on vacation and will be without pay. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
10.08	Employees will receive payment for all accrued vacation which shall be payable in the first payroll period after February 1. Payment of wages in lieu of vacation is not permitted, except that, if the vacation benefits for which an employee is eligible exceed 3 weeks, the employee, by mutual agreement with the Company, may work such time that exceeds 3 weeks in lieu of vacation time off.
10.09	Length of vacation is established by the plant seniority of the employee concerned as at his anniversary date of the current year and will be granted as follows:
a)	Less than five years plant seniority	Two weeks
b)	Five years or more plant seniority	Three weeks
c)	Ten years or more plant seniority	Four weeks
d)	Twenty years or more plant seniority	Five weeks*
^Employees who, as of the effective date of this Agreement, are receiving more than 5 weeks vacation benefit will be red circled, and will not receive a reduction in vacation benefits.
10.10	Vacation pay will be calculated as a percentage of the gross wages earned during the preceding calendar year as follows:
Two weeks	4%
Three weeks	6%
Four weeks	8%
11
Five weeks
10 %*
♦Employees who, as of the effective date of this Agreement, are receiving vacation pay calculated on a percentage greater than 10% will be red circled, and will not receive a reduction in the percentage used to calculate vacation pay under this section.
10.II	Vacation pay for employees on separation from employment will be calculated on a
percentage basis and will include pay for vacation not received and for vacation earned from January 1 of the current year to date of separation as follows:
Less than five years plant seniority	4%
*Five years or more plant seniority	6%
Ten years or more plant seniority	8%
Twenty years or more plant seniority	10%**
^Provided reason for separation is a result of resignation, lay-off, retirement or death.
♦♦Employees who, as of the effective date of this Agreement would be eligible for vacation pay to be calculated at a higher percentage rate, will be red circled, and will not suffer a reduction in the percentage rate used to calculate vacation pay under this section.
10.12	(a) In the event of a shutdown of the plant or a department for vacation purposes, all employees, unless otherwise notified, must take their vacations during this period. Notices of shutdown, which must be scheduled during the period June 15th to September 15th, will be given not later than May 1st of the vacation year.
(b)	The Company will post the employees vacation schedule not later then May 1st of the vacation year.
(c)	In the event of a planned shutdown of one (1) week or more occurring in midrotation, for rotating shifts on either a five (5) day or seven (7) day schedule, the rotation schedule will freeze in place at the beginning of such planned shutdown and continue in place upon start-up at the end of the shutdown, except
12
that such schedule freeze during shutdowns shall not apply to changeovers between a five (5) day and a seven (7) day schedule.
ARTICLE 11
RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
11.01	When a recognized holiday fails on a Saturday or Sunday, the day declared by the Provincial or Federal Authorities will be the legal holiday.
11.02	The Company recognizes the following Holidays as holidays with pay and each employee shall receive eight hours at his classified rate subject to the conditions outlined in Section 11.03:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day
Canada Day	'
Civic Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day December 24 Christmas Day Boxing Day
Heritage Lieu - Christmas Floater December 31
11.03	To be eligible for holiday pay as authorized in Section 11.02 above, the employee:
(a)	Must have completed his probationary period, provided no person will be deprived of more than one paid holiday during his probationary period.
(b)	Each employee will receive a regular day's pay provided he has worked on the last scheduled working day prior to the holiday and the first scheduled working day after the holiday. This requirement shall not operate to deprive the employee of payment for the holiday if he is absent because of illness, the illness being certified by a doctor.
11.04	Employees who have worked on a recognized holiday may request an alternate day off without pay. Employees shall be entitled to postpone the taking of this day off with other such days which the employee may then take off together without pay, at a time mutually convenient to the employee and the Company. Such requests will not unreasonably be denied. All accumulated days must be taken in the year of occurrence.
13
11.05	For rotating shift employees, recognized holidays with the exception of December 24th, OndstxiBS Day, Boxing Day, Heritage Lieu, December 31st, and New Year's Day, may at the discretion of the Company, be observed on the nearest Monday to the legal holiday. The regular holiday will be worked at straight time and all persons required to work on the day observed will be paid in accordance with Section 9.04 of this Agreement. This will not prevent, however, the Company for requesting employees of the Maintenance and Distribution Departments to do work of an emergency nature on these recognized holidays.
11.06	Employees on leave of absence due to a certified illness will be paid in accordance with the Benefits provided by the Temporary Disability Plan.
ARTICLE 12
CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES
12.01	A list of job classifications and rates is attached as Appendix "A" and forms part of this Agreement.
12.02	Probationary employees in classifications 11 and 12 with necessary qualifications will be paid up to $0.20 per hour less than the rates established by Appendix "A" for the jobs they are performing. Ail other probationary employees will be paid up to $0.55 per hour less than the rates established by Appendix "A" for the jobs they are performing.
12.03	if a job is substantially changed or a new job created the evaluation of such jobs will be
made jointly by the Company and the Union within three months of the job being
filled. The rate of pay negotiated shall be retroactive to the date of establishment cf the changed or new job, will be incorporated in this Agreement, and will be binding upon both parties.
12.04	Learner - is any employee who is being trained for any position who has not had pertinent experience in the particular job involved. In such cases, for Classifications 1 to 4, he will be paid $0.15 per hour less for three (3)mcntiis and for classifications 5 and above he will be paid $0.15 per hour less for the first three (3)months and $0.10 per hour less for the second three (3) months, than the job rate for which he is being trained for.
ARTICLE 13 SENIORITY
13.01	A person will not acquire seniority until he has completed his probationary period.
14
13.02	Upon completion of the probationary period, a person's seniority shall be accumulated from his date of hiring.
13.03	Seniority shall be accumulated on ajob, department and plant basis.
13.04	Seniority shall be lost for any one of the following reasons:
a)	If an employee voluntarily quits or is discharged for just cause.
b)	If an employee fails to report to work following the termination of an authorized leave of absence, unless granted further leave of absence by the Company, or unless the employee can give a valid reason for not reporting for work on the specified day.
c)	If an employee on lay-off fails to report for recall within five days of being notified by courier or registered mail to report.
d)	If an employee widfti five or less years of service is laid off for twelve months or if an employee with more than five years of service is laid off for twenty-four months.
e)	When an employee attains sixty-five years of age or retirement date granted by the Company.
13.05	Any person whose seniority has been broken shall upon being rehired be considered a new employee.
13.06	For the purposes of this article and articles 14, 15, 16 and 17 the plant will be considered as having five departments:
Compounding
Maintenance
Siding
Distribution
Services
ARTICLE 14 TRANSFERS
14.01	An employee may be transferred from one department to another for a period not exceeding three months without losing his seniority in his old department. If at any time before the expiration of the three month period such transfer may prove
15
unsatisfactory to either the employee transferred or the Company he may return or be returned to his former job without loss of seniority provided the return to his original department is made within the three month period.
14.02	When an employee's transfer becomes permanent, (after three months) his previous plant seniority will be transferred to the new department for lay off purposes.
14.03	An employee who transfers from one department to another as a result of a promotion may return or be returned to his originating department and job in accordance with
19,06	(a).
14.04	Transfers may or may not involve a change from one department to another.
ARTICLE 15 PROMO C
Appointments to staff positions are not subject to this Agreement and an employee so appointed shall be excluded from the coverage of this Agreement but will retain his seniority for nine (9) months after such appointment.
A person returned by management to the bargaining unit within this nine (9) month period will be returned to his former job without loss of seniority.
With respect to temporary assignments to staff positions outside the bargaining unit, made at the discretion of the Company, the employee shall continue to accumulate seniority. An employee so assigned will be paid $1,00 per hour minimum above his classified rate. The Company will inform the Union of the rate of pay. Upon termination of the temporary assignment the employee shall be returned to his former position.
15.02	Promotion means a transfer to a job classification which carries a higher rate of pay.
15.03	Ability and seniority shall be the factors considered in determining aril cases of promotions. Seniority shall be the determining factor in promotions if the ability of two or more employees is reasonably equal. Seniority to be considered in determining promotions shall be:
a)	Job seniority in the job to be filled.
b)	Job seniority in the next lower job classification.
15.01 a)
b)
c)
16
If the job seniority of two or more employees is equal, department seniority shall determine the selection, if department seniority of two or more employees is equal, plant seniority shall determine the selection.
15.04	An employee may return or be returned to his former job according to Section 19.06
(a).
ARTICLE 16 DEMOTIONS
16.01	Demotions means a transfer to a job classification which carries a lower rate of pay.
16.02	Ability and seniority shall be the factors considered in determining ail cases of demotions. If the ability of two or more employees is reasonably equal, demotions will occur as follows:
I a) Employees shall be demoted to a lower job classification in their department in the reverse order to their job seniority plus any job seniority in higher classifications in that department.
b)	The displaced employee with the least department seniority in the lowest job classification may displace any probationary employee in the plant except probationary employees in the maintenance department.
c)	Should an employee who has completed his probationary period be demoted but does not have the ability to fill the next lower classification in this department or any position in the lowest applicable job classification in any department the Company will endeavor to train him for a period not exceeding the probationary period specified in Section 5.01. If after the period of training he stili has not the required ability he will remain in whatever position he has the ability to fill or be laid off.
d)	Plant seniority will be used in effecting demotions only in cases where other seniority is equal.
16.03	In the event that demotions result through the permanent closure of any section cf the plant, the employees affected may elect to displace any employee in the two lowest paid classifications in the plant, who has less plant seniority.
16.04	Employees demoted for less than five months, due to reduction in the work force will revert to their former positions if conditions so demand.
17
ARTICLE 17
LATERAL.MOVES
17.01	A lateral move means a transfer to a job Classification which carries the same rate cf pay.
17.02	Ability and seniority shall be the factors considered in determining all cases cf lateral transfers exception being considered when medical or compassionate reasons exist.
ARTICLE 18
LAY-OFFS
18.01	Lay-off means separation due to lack of work. :
18.02	When it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees, probationary employee will be laid off and then after considering ability and applicable seniority the following procedure shall be followed:
a)	Employees will be demoted in accordance with Section 16.02 (a).
b)	The employee width the least department seniority in the lowest job classification in the department affected will be laid off, however the employee may exercise his plant seniority and displace the lowest grade cf operator in Appendix “A” or the employee who has the least plant seniority in classification 2 or 1 in the plant, or the employee who has the least plant seniority in classification “A”, General Labourer, in the plant.
18.03	In the case of individual lay-offs the company will give a minimum of five working days‘ notice which includes the day of notification, in advance of the effective date, except when the lay-off is due to fire, storm, floods, power or major mechanical failures.
18.04	In the event that a lay-off affects employees in receipt of Worker’sCompensation or on leave cf absence, such employees will be notified by courier or registered mail that they have been laid off.
18
18.05	Following a lay-off, the hiring of former employees who still retain their seniority will be in the reverse order of their having been laid off,subject to their ability to do the work required.
18.06	Any Bargaining Committee member is not to be excluded from performing his or her duties pertaining to the Union by reason of lay-off, if the lay-off is less than ninety (90) consecutive working days and provided the person is not working elsewhere. The President cf the Local Union shall have one (1) day more seniority than the most junior employee to be laid-off.
ARTICLE 19 JOB POSTING
19.01	a) Job vacancies or newly created jobs that are within the bargaining unit and that
will be of more than three month's duration, will be posted immediately for seven (7) calendar days on the notice board. Employees on vacation or on sick
leave will be notified for any job posting immediately after the posting appears on the board by registered mail.
b)	This section shall not be applied for more than three subsequent moves required as a result of the selection of an applicant.
c)	Temporary vacancies occurring due to customer demand and/or vacation replacement of absent employees will not be posted during the period of April 1st to September lOrh of each year. During this period of time, the Company may hire relief employees, who shall not acquire seniority under this contract. No relief employee will remain as a relief employee after September 10th.
Should any of the relief employees be hired as a regular employee on a full time basis, the actual time worked as a relief employee shall be credited, if necessary, towards the completion of their probationary period. Relief employees will be laid off prior to probationary employees.
19.02	All applicants for the posted jobs, provided their applications are received by the Company within the stipulated seven (7) calendar days, will be interviewed by the Plant Manager or his designated representative, at which time the successful applicant, if any, will be advised and the unsuccessful applicants informed why their applications were not accepted.
19.03	The Company has the right to fill any such vacancy temporarily for 21 calendar days, and permanently thereafter if no applications are received from qualified employees.
19
19.04	Ail jobs posted will state the job to be filled, a brief description of the job, the qualifications required and the rate of pay.
19.05	Seniority shall be the determining factor in selecting the most suitable applicant, if the ability cf the respective applicants is relatively equal.
If the job proves unsatisfactory to the selected applicant within one month, or if the applicant proves unsatisfactory lo the Company within three (3) months, he may return or be returned to his original job without loss of any seniority. The employee may not apply to the same position during the next 18 months.
Anyone else affected by (a) will be returned to his original job.
Should applicant return to his previous job, within thirty (30) days of posting, other applicants from the same posting may be considered and appointed.
ARTICLE 20
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
20.01	Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to take away the right of any employee to discuss any of his personal grievances with a representative of the Company.
20.02	If any differences concerning the interpretation, application, operation or any alleged violation of this Agreement arises or any questions as to whether any difference is arbitrable arises between the parties or persons bound by this Agreement or on whose behalf it was entered into, the representatives of the Company and of the Union shall meet and endeavour to resolve the difference in the following manner and sequence. Union grievance committee members will be paid straight time wages while in attendance at scheduled grievance meetings,
Step 1	Discussion shall take place between the grievor, who shall be accompanied by
his steward and his immediate supervisor, within seven (7) calendar days of the date of the occurrence which gave rise to the grievance, exclusive of plant shutdown periods.
Step 2	Discussions between the grievor, his Union Steward, Chief Steward, his
immediate supervisor, Department Supervisor, or equivalent, within four (4) calendar days, excluding statutory holidays and the weekend days of Saturday and Sunday, of Step 1. The grievance at this stage shall be submitted in writing, signed by the grievor, and an executive of the Union and must state the matter at issue and precisely in what respect the Agreement has allegedly been violated or misinterpreted by reference to the specific clause or clauses relied upon. The
19.06 a)
b)
c)
20
notice shall also state the nature cf relief or remedy sought. The Company shall issue a written reply at this step.
Step 3	Discussion between the Union Grievance Committee, the Department
Supervisor, or equivalent, and the Plant Manager shall be held within four (4) calendar days, excluding statutory holidays and the weekend days cf Saturday and Sunday, of the step 2 written reply.
The grievor may attend on the invitation of either party.
Should a grievance be initiated by either the Company or the Union with respect to the application or interpretation of this Agreement, the procedure will start at this step.
The Plant Manager shall issue to the President of the Union a written reply to the formai written grievance within forty-eight (48)hours of the discussion held in Step 3,
For any of the above Steps, after the grievance has been initiated, the time element may be waived by mutual agreement of both parties. Agreement to waive must be in writing and signed by both parties.
Step 4	If the grievance is not settled at a meeting held in accordance with Step 3, a
further meeting with the same people in attendance will be held within four (4) calendar days, excluding statutory holidays and the weekend days of Saturday and Sunday, of receipt of the Company's Step 3 reply. A representative of the United Steelworkers of America, and the Manager, Human Resources, or his representative, may attend.
20.03	a) The authority of a Board of Arbitration is limited to the interpretation of this Agreement and they cannot amend, delete, or add any clause to the Agreement as signed.
b) Where a difference arises between the parties relating to the interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, or where an allegation is made that this Agreement has been violated, either of the parties may, within 45 days from the date of the Step 4 written reply, notify the other party in writing of its desire to submit the difference or allegation to arbitration and the notice shall contain the name of the first party's, appointee to an Arbitration Board. The recipient of the notice shall within five days inform the other party of the name of its appointee to the Arbitration Board. The two appointees so selected shall within five days of the appointment of the second of them appoint a third person who shall be the chairman. If the recipient of the notice fails to appoint an arbitrator or if the two appointees fail to agree upon a chairman within the time limit, the
21
appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour for Ontario upon the request of either party.
The Arbitration Board shall hear and determine the difference or allegation and shall issue a decision and the decision shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon ail employees affected by it. The decision cf the majority shall be the decision of the Arbitration Board, but if there is no majority the decision of the chairman shall govern.
c)	No person shall be selected as an arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
d)	In determining any grievance arising out of a claim of discharge or suspension, the Board of Arbitration may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, dispose of the grievance by affirming the Company's actions and dismissing the grievance, by setting aside the disciplinary action imposed and restoring the grievor to his former position with or without compensation, by substituting a lesser penalty for the discharge or suspension, or by any other arrangement deemed equitable under the circumstances by the Board of Arbitration.
e)	Either party may employ the option to Arbitrate as per Section 49, by giving notice in writing to &hetiher party at any stage of the arbitration procedure. If notice is given, then the option to arbitrate as per Section 49, of the Labour Relations Act, comes into force notwithstanding that the other party may have commenced the procedure as set out in 20.03 (b).
20.04	The Union and the Company shall, when a Board of Arbitration is formed, each pay one half of the remuneration and expenses of the Chairman of the Board, and any other expenses that have been mutually agreed may be incurred by the Board to assist in arriving at a decision. Each party shall pay the remuneration and expenses of its own nominee. Any other expenses shall be borne by the Party which incurs them.
20.05	The Grievance procedure may be invoked if a person believes he has been unjustly disciplined, discharged, or suspended. Should settlement of such grievance be arrived at by mutual agreement or arbitration on the basis of reinstating the individual concerned, he will be paid for time lost, if any, less any money earned from other employment or by any other arrangement that may be deemed equitable.
20.06	The manner in which any grievance is settled will never be construed as establishing a policy €or either the Company or the Union.
20.07	It is understood that the Company's representatives may call a special meeting of the Union Grievance Committee to present any complaint or grievance with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers, committee-men, or with respect to the conduct of the

employees generally or individually and that if such complaint or grievance is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may be referred to arbitration in the same way as a grievance by any employee. It is understood that the Company will give the Union three working days notice of such a meeting.
20,08	Any grievance not processed in conformity with this Article 20 shall be deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse shall be at an end. However, changes may be made in Section 20.02 by mutual agreement between the parties.
ARTICLE 21
UNION COMMITTEE
The company will recognize a Union Grievance Committee of not more than three (3) employees who will be known as Union Officers or Stewards elected or appointed by the Union. It is understood that ail employees serving on this Committee will, as far as is practical, have one or more years plant seniority.
It is understood the Union Stewards and other Union Officers will not absent themselves from their regular duties unreasonably in order to deal with the grievances of employees or with other Union business, and will at all times obtain permission from their immediate supervisors before leaving their place of work.
Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
21.02	The Company will recognize a Union Negotiating Committee composed of not more than five employees. The Committee will meet with representatives of the Company during the third week of each month.
21.03	The Union will advise the Company in writing of the names of ail Union Officers and Stewards.
21.04	Employees elected or appointed by the Union to serve on those Committees with the exception of the Union President, shall whore possible work in a different section or shift of the plant.
In the event two or more employees are elected while on the same shift in the same section then such employees will be assigned io different shifts, wherever practical.
For purpose of this Article, Sections of the Plant are as follows:
Compounding	Distribution
Maintenance	Services
Siding
21.01 a)
b)
23
ARTICLE 22 HEALTH AND SAFETY
22.0	The Company and the Union agree to set up a Health and Safety Committee of not less than 6 and not more than 10 members including the Plant Manager and a member of the Union Executive. Each party will select a minimum of 3 members whose term of office will expire every 6 months on rotational basis, if possible. The meetings shall be held at a time most convenient for the Plant Manager to attend but, in any case, not later than the third week of each month. An inspection of the plant will be made prior to each meeting by members of the Health and Safety Committee, selected at the previous month's Safety Meeting.
It is agreed that a Health and Safety Committee member from both Management and the Union will be included in the investigating team for ail incidents or accidents requiring a report to the Workers' Compensation Board.
22.02	Employees will immediately report any unsafe conditions to their foreman in the presence of a witness. If a safety hazard cannot be immediately corrected, the foreman will submit the necessary work order. The Plant Safety Committee will review any outstanding work orders at its next monthly meeting and recommend their disposition to management.
22.03	Any situation or conditions reported to be unsafe shall be dealt with by the Safety Committee at the Safety Committee meetings if not rectified before that date.
22.04	It is agreed that the Union may make recommendations through their representatives on the Safety Committee regarding the health and safety of the employees.
22.05	In accordance with prevailing plant policy and at no cost to the employee, the Company shall provide safety devices and other equipment necessary to protect the employees' health and safety while at work.
22.06	A representative of the Union of the Safety Committee shall be permitted to accompany the government factory inspector on ail his tours of the Plant.
24
ARTICLE 23
NOTICE BOARDS
23.01	The Company will provide for a bulletin board in the maintenance department, siding department and the employee entrance.
The Union will not post any notice or circular on these boards until it has been approved by the Plant Manager or his authorized representative.
ARTICLE 24 LEAVE OF .ABSENCE
24.01	Seniority shall accumulate when an employee is absent by reason of illness, occupational or non-occupationai accident for 12 months if he has less than 3 years of plant seniority, for 18 months if he has 3 but less than 8 years plant seniority and for 24 months if he has 8 or more years of plant seniority.
An employee with less than one year plant seniority may request a leave of absence without pay, for personal reasons acceptable to the Company for a maximum period of six months, and an employee with one or more years of plant seniority for a maximum period of 12 months. Seniority will be preserved during such absence.
If an employee requests and is granted a leave of absence for up to three (3) months, on his return he will be reinstated in his former position.
if an employee requests and is granted a leave of absence of three months or more, on his return he will displace the person with the least plant seniority in the lowest classification in the plant, provided he has more piant seniority.
24.03	Employees will have the right to request leave of absence without pay to attend to Union business. Up to five employees, but not more than one from a department, and no more then one per shift and one per classification in the Siding department with the exception of the Union President, may make such request for each function and such absence will not exceed two weeks duration. Not more than three of such requests need be granted during an agreement year. Seniority shall accumulate during such absence.
24.04	Approval of applications received in accordance with Section 24.02 and 24.03 above will not be unreasonably withheld.
24.02 a)
b)
c)
25
ARTICLE 25
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
25.01	a) This agreemenfifSffective from date of signing until the 31st October. 2001.
and thereafter from year to year unless written notice is given by either party not more than 90 days prior to the 3 1st October, 2001, if they desire to negotiate a new agreement.
b)	In the event that no agreement is reached by the expiry date cf this Agreement it shall remain in effect until a new agreement is reached or until the procedures specified in the Labour Relations Act have been completed.
c)	Rates and wages, as shown in Appendix "A" attached hereto, become effective on the dates indicated.
d)	Appendix "B" Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule, attached hereto, forms part of this agreement.
26
Signed this	day of

1997.
ON BEHALF OF:
ABTCO CANADA, LIMITED
Vice President Operations
^r^amofiell Human Resource Manager
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA Local 603
Jim Harvey U.S.W.A. Staff Representative
S. Barens
President
Treasurer
M. Phelan
Member, Negotiating Committee
27
12
11
9
4
2
10
8
8
6
3
8
1
8
5
1
1
’A"
’APPENDIX A" STANDARD HOURLY RATE
1-Nov 1 -Nov 1-Nov 1995	1325	1997
Maintenance
MachinistA Oie Maker IV, Electrician 20 07	20,47	,20.88
Tradesman III Tradesman H
Tradesman I
Distribution Chief Warehouseman Yard Warehouseman
Serxicas
Chemical Laboratory Technician Laboratory Technician Inspector On-Line Inspector Material Handler
Compounding
Compounder
Helper
Siding Operator "A'
Operator ”B"
Packer
Hopper-Raker General Labour
18.98	19.36	19.75
15 16	15.46	15.77
14 58	14 a7	15.17
14 01	14 29	14.58
13 51	13.78	14.06
15 67	15.98	16.30
14 69	14.98	15.28
14 69	14.98	15.28
14 24	14.52	, 14.82
13 84	14.12	' 14.40
14 69	14.98	15.28
13 44	13.71	13.98
14 69	14.98	15.28
14 08	14.36	14.65
13 44	13.71	13,98
13 44	13.71	13.98
12.29	12.54	12.79
1-Nov	1-Nov
1929	1222
21.35	21.88
20.19	20.70
16.13	16.53
15.51	15.90
14.90	15.28
14.37	14 73
16.67	1709
15.63	16.02
15.63	16.02
15.15	15.53
14.72	15.09
15.63	16.02
14 30	14.66
15.63	16.02
14.98	15,35
14.30	14.66
14.30	14,66
13.07	13.40
liioy
2202
22.49
21.27
16.99
16.34
15.70
15.14
17.56
16.46
16.46 15.95 15.51
16.46
15.06
16.46
15.78
15.06
15.06 13.77
B.
1.	Upon the signing of this Agreement, ail seniority employees actively employed by the Company as of the date of signing shall receive a Signing Bonus in the gross amount of $200,00.
2.	Upon the signing of this Agreement, the Company will provide wage increases, effective with the first payroll period after each of the following dates, as provided below:
November 1, 1996 November 1, 1997 November 1, 1998 November 1, 1999 November 1, 2000
2.00%
2.00%
2.25%
2.50%
2.75%
C.
1. Employees working on the seven day schedule will be paid the following premium for all hours worked:
$0.88 per hour for the term of the agreement
2. Employees appointed by the Company to the position of Lead Hand shall be paid a minimum premium, based on the following schedule, effective with the first payroll period on or after:
Signing New Contract November 1, 1997 November 1, 1998 November 1, 1999 November 1, 2000
$0.80/hour
$0.85/hour
$0.90/hour
$0.95/hour
$1.00/hour
29
3.	Multi-Skill Maintenance Personnel:
The Company will pay an additional $1.00 per hour for the second Provincial Approved License beyond the primary certification required for the department. The Company will pay an additional $0.50 per hour for the third certification license. The three identified certified trades are Millwright, Electrician, and Machinist & Die Maker IV.
4.	Employees hired as "Relief Employees" may be hired at a rate which is not less than 75% of the applicable job rate and the relief employees shall be advanced to a rate which is not less than 85% of the applicable job rate in the second year of their return employment, and to the applicable job rate not later than the third year of their return employment, and to provide further that relief employees shall not be entitled to receive any of the fringe benefits available to employees under the terms of this Agreement.
30
APPENDIX "B"
12 HOUR SHTFT SCHEDULE
The following provisions shall apply to employees on the twelve (12) hour shift in place of the relevant provisions in the main body of the Collective Agreement.
5.01	Ail persons will be on probation for the first four hundred and eighty (480) normal working hours of their employment accumulated'.during a nine (9) month period. The exception to the above being maintenance department personnel who will be on probation for the first seven hundred and twenty (720) normal working hours of their employment accumulated during a nine (9) month period.
8.01	(b) Regular hours worked during a regularly scheduled week will be paid at the
classified rate.
All hours in excess of forty-four (44) hours will be paid at one and one-haif times the classified rate.
8.03 Standard starting and quitting time for 12 hour shift employees will be:
8:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m.
8:00 p.m. - 8:00 a.m.
8.05 All 12
each.
9.02	(a)
(b)
hour shift employees will be allowed 2 meal periods not in excess of 20 minutes
Overtime in excess of 12 consecutive hours will be paid on the basis of one and one-half time classified rate of pay.
Employees will be paid overtime compensation for ail work performed on their first and second scheduled days of rest on the basis of one and one-haif (1-1/2) times their classified rate of pay. Work performed on the third day of rest wall be paid at double time.
9.04 Recognized Holidays: 24 hours are from 8:00 a.m. of day set to 8:00 a.m. of the following day.
9,07 Employees working on the 8:00 p.m. premium:
Effective November 1, 1996 -November 1. 1997 -November 1, 1998 -November 1, 1999 -November 1, 2000 -
to 8:00 a.m. shift will be paid the following shift
$0.57 per hour $0.58 per hour $0.59 per hour $0.60 per hour $0.61 per hour
31
9.12 Where it reads maximum 4 days, change to maximum 3 days with 36 hours pay. Where it reads maximum 3 days, change to maximum 3 days with 36 hours pay. Where it reads maximum 1 day, change to maximum 1 day wiih 12 hours pay.
9.13	(b) Where it reads four (4), change to six (6). ecoenized Holidays
Overtime compensation for working a holiday will be paid between the hours of 8:00 a.m. of the holiday and 8:00 a.m. of the following day.
1(a)	Employees working on a recognized holiday will receive 12 hours at double
time plus 8 hours holiday pay at their classified rate.
(b)	Employees not scheduled to wade on the holiday will receive 8 hours holiday pay.
(c)	If the plant shuts down for a recognized-holiday employees normally scheduled to work (2 shifts) shall be paid 12 hours at their classified rate. Those employees not scheduled to work (2 shifts) shall receive 8 hours at their classified rate,
(d)	12 hour schedule would stop at start of a shutdown period (e.g. Christmas) and
start up after completion of period.
Recognized holidays occurring in shutdown period would be paid at 8 hours classified rate.
Vacation
One week = 40 hours of vacation entitlement, to start following days of rest.
32
APPENDIX "C"
SUMMARY of BENEFITS*
Program	Benefit	Annual Cost Sharing Company	Annual Cost Sharing Employee
Basic Life Insurance	$15,000 Less than 1 year $20,000 1 to 2 years $25,000 2 to 3 years $30,000 3 to 4 years $35,000 over 4 years	100%	None
"Optional" Life Insurance	Units of $10,000 Smoker Rates per thousand Non-Smoker Rates per thousand Including Retail Tax	None	Employee Paid
AD&D	Employee: units of $10,000 to a maximum of 25 units; Spouse: 50% of Employee's coverage [60% if no children] Children: 10% of Employee's coverage [15% if no spouse]	, None	Employee Paid
Weekly Indemnity	70% of regular straight time earnings Waiting period: 0 working days for accident, hospitalization or out patient surgery 3 (8 hour) working days or 2 (12 hour) working days for sickness and other conditions Benefit duration 52 wedcs See Note**	100%	None
LTD	60% of the first $1,000 of basic monthly earnings, and 40% of remaining basic monthly earnings with earnings maximum, for benefit purposes, of $5,000 per month.	None	Employee Paid
Health Care Insurance	As reflected in the Summary Plan Document	80% Company	20% Employee
Dental Care Insurance	100% Preventive Services; 50% Major Services to $l,500/person/year; 50%	80% Company	20% Employee
33
orthodontics services age 6-18 $ 1,500 lifetime; benefits are provided in compliance with the ODA schedule as updated annually.
* Appendix "C" is a sunrnary of benefits available under the various benefit documents. Such documents shall control the provision of benefits. The Company retains the right to select the carrier that will provide the benefits.
** Note: The minimum benefit shall be the Employment Insurance Sickness minimum. Any resulting E,I. premium reduction shall be utilized towards the cost of the Company’sshare of Health and Dental Insurance.
+ Rates subject to annual change by the carrier.
34
February 28 / 1997
Letter of Understanding
At the recent set of negotiations, both parties are in agreement that the Quality Assurance Department may start at 7:00 a m. and 7:00 p.m.
Sid Barens Union President

35
Please complete this part and forward with copy of collective agreement to: Workplace Information Directorate Collection of Agreements Unit Labour Branch
Human Resources Development Canada
Hull, Quebec
KIA0J2
Males
File: 0076404
Number of employees covered by the agreement.
I A© i
Females
USbJfl-PEEL-HRLTON	ID : 9056292610	HRR 17'97	13:36 No.Oil P.03
I
ABTCO
ABTCANAOMIMITfcU
ABT Canada umilael
Vinyl Diy(«lori P.0, Box 300 323 Main siraei North Acton, Ontario l/j T#l; (510)853-1201 Fax: (519} B53-4647
t
*.	March 10, 1997
Mr. Jim Harvey
United Steel workers of America Dawson Rnwl Guelph, Ontario
Dear Jim:
Please be advised that the nameof the Company bais been changed as follows:
June 1, 1995 Changed Itotn BPCO to ABT Building Products Canada Limited January 1, 1990 Change to current name of ABT Canada Limited, vlnvl Division.
Hill Let*
United Steelworkers cf America Metallurgistes Unis d'Amerique
Henry Hynd Diiector/Direaeur
October 13, 1995
To Whom It May Concern at the Government of Canada"
Any information you are needing on the United Rubber Workers from now on you must contact the United Steelworkers of America. As of July 1st we merged with the Steelworkers and they now take care of the contracts.
United Steelworkers of America 200 Ronson Drive Suite 607
Etobicoke, Ontario M9W 5Z9
Telephone:	(416) 243-8792
Hoping this will resolve all to come. Yours truly,
Denise Duguay
Secretary to the Assistant Director
txam a •
Pxe • prc
Jg ory^L cAo JUC- -


n
U-et^