Effective Date:	February 1, 1998
Expiry Date:	January 31, 2000
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between
A. R, CLARKE LIMITED Toronto, Ontario (hereinafter called the "Company")
and
Local 175
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS' UNION CLC, AFL-CIO (hereinafter called the "Union")
1
NORTHERN REGION
Ron Sprlngall
ExecutiveAssistant/DIrector
Bill Kalka
Unbn Representative
Luc Laceile
Unbn Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
Room21, Lakehead labour Centre, 929 Fort William Road, Thunder Bay, Ontario P7B 3A6 Phone: (807) 346-4227 Fax: (807) 346-4055 Wats (800) 465-6932
EASTERN REGION
Serge Castonguay Union Representative
John Fuller Director
Ray Bromley
Union Representative
Ian Miller Union Representative
Dan Lacroix
Union Representative
Wendy Zych Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
20 Hamilton Ave. North, Ottawa, Ont. K1Y1B6 Phone: (613) 725-2164 Fax: (613) 725-2328 (800) 267-5295
SOUTHWEST REGION
Jim Andress
Director
John DiFalco
Union Representative
Larry Bain Union Representative
Susan Bayne Union Representalive
A. 0. Sherman	Richard Woodruff
Union Representative	Union Representaliwe
REGIONAL OFFICE:
124 Sydney St. South, Kitchener, Ont. N2G 3V2 Phone: (519) 744-5231 Fax: (519) 744-8357 (800) 265-6345
CENTRAL REGION
Jim Hastings Director
Mike Brennan Union Representative
Jerry Clifford
Union Representative
Kathle Chrysler
Union Representative
Don Morin Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
2200 Amentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821-8329 Far (905) 821-7144 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800) 565-8329

CENTRAL REGION con’t
JayNalr	Brian Noonan Fernando Reis
Union Represented Union Representative Union Representative
Steve Springall Teresa Suppa-Magee Harry Sutton
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE
2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821-8329 Fax 190§) 821-7144 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800) 565-8329
SOUTH - CENTRAL REGION
Dan Onichuk
Director
Wendy Absolom
Union Representative
Sharon Gall
Unbn Representative
Jim Hobbs
Unon Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
2200 Argentla Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821-8329 Fax (905) 821-7144 Toll-free outside Metro Toronto (800) 565-8329
ORGANIZING TEAM
(905) 821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Mark Flannigan
Organizing Co-ordinator
Kevin Dowling
Union Representative
Michael Duden Sylvia Groom Rick Wauhkonen
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
BENEFIT DEPARTMENT
(905) 821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Herb MacDonald
Benefits Co-ordinator
Karl Goenneman.n
Benefits Representative
t
LEGAL DEPARTMENT
(905)821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Kelvin Kucey Legal Counsel
Georgina Watts
Legal Counsel
ADMINISTRATION
(905)821-8329	(800) 565-8329
Robert Linton
Communications
Representative
EDUCATION & TRAINING
Dave Klllham
Political Action, Commuincations and Education Co-ordinator
Maureen McCarthy
Union Representative
OFFICE:
1450 Meyerslde Drive, 7th floor Mississauga, Ontario L5T 2N5 Phone: (905) 564-2500 Fax: (905) 564-2898 Wats (800) 728-8902
ARTICLES
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3
ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE-10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26 SCHEDULE"A" SCHEDULE"A" SCHEDULE"A" SCHEDULE "A" SCHEDULE"A" SCHEDULE "B" SCHEDULE "C“
INDEX OF CONTENTS
CONTEXT
PAGE
PURPOSE RECOGNITION UNION MEMBERSHIP AND UNION DUES MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS UNION REPRESENTATION GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ARBITRATION SENIORITY
LAYOFF AND RECALL
LEAVEOFABSENCE
HOURS OF WORK
OVERTIME
SHIFTS
WAGES
HOLIDAYS
VACATIONS
BENEFITS
BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE
EMERGENCY GUARANTEE
TOOL ALLOWANCE
JURY DUTY
SAFETY AND HEALTH
NOTICES
FOOTWEAR/UNIFORMS
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
WAGE ADMINISTRATION
TABLE 1
TABLE 2
TABLE 3
TABLE 4
PAY EQUITY
3
3
3
4 4 4 6
7
8 11
14
15
17
18 19 22 23 25 27 27
27
28 28
n
2
ARTICLE 1 ■ PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations
between the Company and its employees covered by this Agreement and to provide machinery for the prompt, equitable disposition of grievances.
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all of its employees in Toronto, save and except forepersons, supervisors, persons above the rank of foreperson or supervisor, chief engineer, consulting chemists, chief chemist, nurse, office and sales staff, (janitors and watchmen working less than 24 hours a week), and all such employees shall be covered by this Agreement.
2.02	It is recognized that forepersons, in addition to their managerial functions, may do work that is ordinarily done by members of the Bargaining Unit, as defined in Schedule B herein.
2.03	In the event that the Company purchases the shares or assets of another company that do not principally involve leather tanning operations which are absorbed and carried on in Toronto then the employees working in this new subsidiary or division will not be covered by this Agreement. Employees covered by this Agreement will not have any rights or entitlements relating to such work.
(a) However, the Company and the Union shall negotiate a separate Collective Agreement recognizing any such new Bargaining Unit, assuming that there are no subsisting bargaining rights that would preclude the Union.
ARTICLE 3 ■ UNION MEMBERSHIP AND UNION DUES
3.01	It shall be a condition of employment that any employee who is a member of the Union upon the signing of this Agreement shall remain so for as long as he is an employee under this Agreement and that any new employee hired into the Bargaining Unit shall become a member of the Union at most 60 working days from his starting date and shall remain so for as long as he is an employee under this Agreement.
3.02	The Company shall deduct from the first wages and all subsequent wages due each employee, covered by this Collective Agreement, the regular union dues and initiation fee as from time to time indicated, to the Company. by the Union, in writing. It shall be the responsibility of the Union to advise the
3
Company of such obligations and no employee shall lose or be refused membership in the Union for non-payment of regular dues if the Union has not specifically advised the Company of such obligations.
The Union shall save the Company harmless from any costs whatsoever resulting from any dispute as between any employee or employees and the Union as the validity of obligation in respect of such regular dues.
3.03	The Company shall remit to the Union, by the 15th of the month following deduction, all dues and fees deducted along with a list on the form provided by the Union showing from whom deducted, S.I.N., address of first deduction and if changed, and if no deduction the reason why. This information will be provided on computer diskettes, or tape, supplied by the Union, if software is mutually compatible.
3.04	The Employer will ensure that all new employees, upon completion of the probationary period, complete a membership application form (as supplied by the Union) and forward the same to the Union Office with the regular monthly union dues.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
4.01	All aspects of management shall be the exclusive prerogative of the Company, subject only to the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 • STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
5.01	It is understood and agreed that there shall be no strike, concerted work stoppage, slowdown, or other such activity by the Union or by any of its members during the term of this Agreement or while negotiations for its renewal or amendment are in progress. It is further understood and agreed that should there be any strike. concerted work stoppage, slowdown, or other such activity by any of the said members, the Union shall make and continue to make every effort to prevent or stop such action and shall condemn such action.
5.02	It is understood and agreed that there shall be no "lockouts" by the Company during the term of this Agreement or while negotiations for its renewal or amendment are in progress.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION REPRESENTATION
6.01	For the purpose of discussing and adjusting matters arising out of the
interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement, and for the
- 4 -
processing of grievances as hereinafter set out, the Company shall recognize a Shop Steward for each thirty (30) active members (or majority fraction thereof) of the Union employed by the Company. One of the stewards shall be Chairperson, and will be kept on day shift provided that, in the opinion of the Company, Chairperson being on day shift does not interfere with the efficient operation of the Plant. The Bargaining and Grievance Committee which shall be comprised of no more than three (3) members, shall meet with representatives of the Company as necessary. A Full-time Representative of the Union shall be a member of this Bargaining and Grievance Committee and attend all negotiating meetings, grievance meetings beginning at Step 2 of the grievance procedure contained hereinafter, and may attend any other meeting held between the Company and the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. Accredited officials of the Union shall have access to the plant premises upon reasonable notice to the Production Manager or designate.
6.02	For the purpose of processing employees' grievances as hereinafter set out, the Company shall recognize Shop Stewards as set out herein. The Union shall keep the Company informed, in writing and within 30 days of any changes in the members of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, the stewards and the chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. It is understood and agreed that the first responsibility of Shop Steward is to their work for the Company and they shall not leave such work except in the performance of their duties under this Agreement, and then only in such a way as to cause the least possible loss of production and order, and they must explain the nature of his business to each Supervisor involved.
6.03	The Shop Chairperson shall carry out any duties under this agreement under the same conditions as a Shop Steward but in respect of all those areas in which employees under this Agreement are employed.
6.04	Grievance Committee persons and Stewards shall not lose pay while carrying out their duties under this Agreement during regular working hours.
6.05	No employee shall, in any manner, be discriminated against on the basis of Union membership, Union activity, or the exercise of any rights under this Agreement.
6.06	No employee shall, imany manner, be discriminated against on the basis of race, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or marital status as per the Ontario Human Rights Code.
6.07	Each employee shall have the right to examine their personal disciplinary file upon submission of a written request to the Company. A representative of the Company and the Union if requested will be present during the examination
5
of the file and if requested by the employee, will supply copies of any documents in the said file.
6.08	The Negotiating Committee will be comprised of three (3) members from the
bargaining unit. Members of the negotiating committee will be paid eight (8) hours at their regular rate of pay for each day spent in negotiations, four (4) hours of which will be paid by the Company and four (4) hours will be paid by the Union.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	Any employee with seniority who feels they have a grievance under this Agreement shall discuss the matter with their foreperson, with a view to prompt settlement or explanationfhereof. The employee’s Shop Steward may accompany that employee in such discussion if the employee so desires.
7.02	If the employee is not satisfied after the above discussion, the grievance shall be settled in accordance with the following procedure:
Step 1 The grievance shall be set down in writing and presented to the Production Manager (or designate) within ten (10) working days of the occurrence of the issue being grieved. The Company shall answer the grievance in writing within five (5) working days from receipt thereof.
Step 2 Should the employee or the Bargaining and Grievance Committee still not be satisfied, the grievance shall be referred to a meeting of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the Company. Such meeting shall be held as promptly as possible. Within eight (8) working days of such meeting, the Company shall deliver its answer to the Chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. with a copy to the Full-time Union Representative.
Should the above meeting not have taken place within fifteen (15) working days of referral, then either party may proceed to arbitration.
7.03	Time limits in this Article and Article 8 may be modified or extended by mutual agreement in writing.
7.04	Discharge Cases .
In the event that an employee with seniority is discharged, the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the Full-time Union Representative shall be so notified within two (2) working days where possible. A claim by an employee with seniority that such employee has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance and may be taken to arbitration if a written statement of such
- 6 -
grievance is lodged with the Company under Article 7,02 (b), Step 2, within five (5) working days of the above notification to the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the Full-time Union Representative.
Such special grievances may be settled by the. Board of Arbitration by:
1.	confirming the Company’s action in dismissal of the employee;
2.	reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost; or
3.	any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable
7.05	Matters arising out of the interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement of a general nature may be the subject of a grievance which may be initiated by either party. Such grievance shall be entered at the 2nd Step.
7.06	Either party shall have the right to require the attendance of the grievor at any meeting held pursuant to the grievance procedure.
7.07	An agreement reached between the Management and the Bargaining and Negotiating Committee, subject to due process, is binding on all workers affected and cannot be changed by any individual.
7.08	If an employee’s work record is free of suspension for a twelve month period, then all prior suspensions or written notations or warnings relating to the conduct of the employee, shall be removed from the employee’s record.
7.09	The Company agrees that if a meeting is called between the Company and an employee for the purpose of discipline a steward will be present, if a steward is present on that shift.
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
8.01	In the event that a grievance is not satisfactorily settled under the grievance procedure, either party may refer the grievance to a sole arbitrator.
8.02	The party desiring the arbitration shall notify, in writing, the other party of its desire to arbitrate. Such notice shall contain a list of at least (3) qualified arbitrators.
8.03	The party receiving the notice shall forthwith either:
(a)	notify the first party of its acceptance of one of the arbitrators listed,
or
n
(b)	provide to the first party a list of at least three (3) qualified arbitrators, from which to choose.
8.04	If the parties are unable to agree on an arbitrator within 30 days of the first notice, then the Minister of Labour shall be requested to appoint an Arbitrator.
8.05	The Arbitrator shall convene a hearing as promptly as possible to hear the case.
8.06	The Arbitrator shall be given access to the plant, should such access be requested by either party.
8.07	The parties shall jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Arbitrator
8.08	The Arbitrator shall not be authorized to alter, modify, or amend any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 - SENIORITY
9.01	Subject to the provisions of this Agreement respecting the same, an employee’s seniority shall be determined by the length of such employee’s continuous employment with the Company.
9.02	The first sixty (60) working days of an employee’s employment with the Company shall be a probationary period, after which such employee shall become an employee with seniority, dating from the day such employee commenced work. Absence of more than seven (7) days during the probationary period will be added to the period.
9.03	The Company shall have the right to discharge a probationary employee, with or without just cause, where the company has, in its sole discretion and in good faith, made a determination that the probationary employee is not suitable for continued employment with the Company.
9.04	An employee shall lose all seniority and shall be deemed to have quit the employ of the Company for any of the following reasons:
(a)	voluntarily quits employment with the Company;
(b)	is discharged and not reinstated through the grievance procedure;
(c)	fails to respond to recall as herein provided;
8
(d)	is absent on leave for more than three (3) months at one time except by agreement of the parties hereto;
(e)	fails to return from a leave of absence as herein provided;
(f)	is not recalled to work within:
(j)	20 months for employees with 20 years or more seniority;
(ii)	18 months for employees with 15 years or more seniority;
(iii)	12 months for employees with from one to 15 years seniority;
(iv)	the period of actual seniority for employees with less than 1 year's seniority.
(g)	takes another job while on leave of absence without having received prior written permission from the Company to do so.
(h)	completes his/her entitlement for Weekly Indemnity Benefits as described in Article 18.06, or his/her Workers' Compensation total temporary disability benefits have ceased, and does not return to work within five working days of such completion, unless he is prevented from so doing for reasonable cause and has notified the Production Manager of such cause within that five (5) working day period.
9.05	Lost seniority may be restored in whole or in part by agreement of the parties hereto.
9.06	Lists showing the seniority of all employees under this Agreement shall be prepared and maintained by the Company and shall be open to inspection by the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. New lists shall be made up each year, shall be posted for a minimum of two weeks each year, and the Bargaining and Grievance Committee shall have a copy of each.
9.07	(a) In the event new jobs are created or permanent vacancies occur, the
Company will post such new jobs or vacancies for a period of five (5) working days before new employees are hired in order to allow employees with seniority in another classification to apply. If no senior employees apply, probationary employees will be considered.
9
(b)	If no applications are received by 10:00 A.M. on the fifth day following the posting date, the Company may start proceedings to secure applications from outside labour sources.
(c)	In the event that two or more employees with seniority apply for a posted job, the Company shall consider the skills, ability, and physical fitness of the applicants. Seniority shall govern only when two applicants are of equal standing in terms of these criteria, considered on an overall basis.
(d)	It is agreed that successful applicants on the j ob bidding procedure will not be permitted to re-apply for a period of six (6) months.
(e)	If, in the opinion of the Company, none of the applicants is qualified to perform the open job, then the Company has the right to select any other employee for the job or may hire from outside after first discussing the matter with the Union. If, in the opinion of the Union, the Company has not considered all of the relevant facts, then the matter may be taken up through the grievance procedure.
(f)	Employees with greater seniority who are unsuccessful in bidding on suchjobs under this section shall be advised why they did not qualify.
(g)	(i) A temporary vacancy shall be defined as the longer of thirty
(30) working days, or the period of the duration of the absence due to illness or injury of the individual who worked that job previously, or until their termination, or by mutual agreement in writing by the parties hereto.
(ii) However, temporary vacancies occurring during the period of posting may be filled by the Company in such manner as it may in its discretion determine.
(h)	Only the first vacancy shall be posted. Vacancies arising out of the original posting will be filled by the Company. However, an employee may apply in writing for the second vacancy created not later than three (3) days after such position becomes vacant and sections c, d, e, f, g, above will apply. If such employee is refused the second vacancy, that employee shall be advised of the reason for the refusal.
(i)	If an employee is transferred to another department due to lack of work, that employee may return to their former job before a new employee is hired for that job.
10
9.08
9.09
0 In the event that more than one employee is doing the same job, as a regular assignment, then the senior employee shall not be transferred from that job, provided such employee has equal skill and ability compared ta any junior employee doing that same job.
Regular Assignment
For the purposes of this agreement regular assignment(s) shall mean having been assigned to that job or operation on a regular basis for the preceding six (6) months. Temporary transfers and layoffs will not be included in the calculation of the six months.
(a)	The Company shall distribute a form once each six months on which employees may make a written request to train on a specificjob. The Company shall provide the employee, as soon as possible, with an opportunity to train on the requested job. The Company in its discretion has the right to terminate the training period, if the employee fails to demonstrate the required skills.
(b)	Success in a training program does not entitle the employee to any rights of job selection, other than provided for in Article 10,01 or 9.07.
ARTICLE 10 - LAYOFF AND RECALL
10.01	When it is necessary to layoff employees, or to recall employees who have been laid off, the employees to be laid off or recalled shall be selected on the basis of seniority providing the senior employee has previously qualified on the job in the plant or can perform the work available satisfactorily without training. In the event that all jobs that require no training are filled by senior employees and further layoffs are required which involve skilledjobs, a senior employee may have only one opportunity to supplant any junior employee, providing such employee is able to attain the required skills of the junior persons's regular assignment within a ten (10) day training period. However, if such employee has twenty (20) years seniority or over, then he/she shall be given a fifteen (15) day training period. As between two employees who are fully competent to perform the work available seniority shall govern the selection. The rate paid for the job chosen by the employee exercising this right to supplant shall be the rate of the job, as listed in Schedule "A" Table 1, subject to the provisions of Article 15.01.
11
(a)	A notice of layoff issued by the Company shall contain:
" date the Notice is issued
■	name of the person being laid off " date the layoff is to commence
■	whether layoff is temporary (indicate term if known) or permanent " the entire text of Article 10,01
(b)	Accompanying the Notice of layoff will be a form entitled "Decision to Supplant" ("BUMP") on which the employee will be able to confirm, in writing, if and when he/she chooses to exercise his/her right to supplant, and to indicate the junior person being supplanted and the relevant regular assignment. This form must be signed and dated by the employee and a steward to be considered complete. The effective date of the decision will be the day the completed form is received by the Company.
(c)	The following jobs are considered skilled jobs and cannot be learned within the training period described in Article 10,01 above. This clause does not apply to employees who are performing, or who have previously performed these jobs.
Sorter - Blue/Crust/Final Operator - Lime/Tan Drum/Colouring • Splitting Finish Mixing Grain Buffing RCM Feed Sample Work Licensed Tradesperson Shaving
(d)	Notice of recall shall be sent to the employee's last recorded address and such employee shall have a maximum of five (5) working days in which to report for work. Seniority shall accrue during layoff.
(e)	An employee who has moved from his/her regular assignment as a result of a layoff, will upon recall or availability of work return to his/her regular assignment and rate.
10.02	Each member of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and Stewards, will be retained in employment without regard to seniority so long as there is work available that they are competent and willing to perform. Such work shall not be higher rated than their regular work except by mutual agreement of the
- 12 -
10.03
10.04
10.05
parties hereto. Should an employee cease to be a member of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee or a Steward while layoff is in effect, such employee shall be dealt with under the normal layoff and recall procedures when the next layoff occurs.
During periods of plant shutdown, when there is a staggered phase-down and phase-up of work, rights as described in Sections 10.01 and 10.02 above will not apply to supplant employees who are working on their regular assignments during these phase-down and phase-up periods. The schedule and duration of a plant shutdown will be posted by the Company, after discussion with the Union. (By way of example: the first department out is the first department back and so on, in sequence.)
The Union Chairperson or designate shall be present when an employee is advised of layoff pursuant to Article 10,01, If the advice of layoff is provided in writing by mail, the Chairperson shall receive a copy of the advice on the day it is mailed.
(a)	The Company shall provide the Union Chairperson or designate with an up-to-date copy of the seniority list which includes the name, seniority, and regular assignment of all employees junior to the person being laid off.
(b)	The Company shall provide the Union office with a list of the names of such employees laid off within fifteen (16) working days of the date of layoff.
(a)	If any employee is to be laid off for a period of more than five (5) working days but less than ten (10) working days, and such period is not part of a vacation or shutdown as described in Article 10.03, then that employee shall receive one (1) day written notice of such layoff, or eight (8) hours pay in lieu of such notice.
(b)	If an employee is to be laid off for more than ten (10) working days, and such period is not part of a vacation or shutdown as per Article
10,03	then the following will apply:
(i)	Employees with five (5) years or less seniority shall receive two (2) working days written notice of such layoff or pay in lieu of such notice.
(ii)	Employees with five (5) to twenty (20) years seniority shall receive five (5) working days written notice of such layoff or pay in lieu of such notice.
- 13 -
(iii) Employees with more than twenty (20) years seniority shall receive ten (10) working days written notice of such layoff or pay in lieu of such notice.
(c)	If insufficient notice is given as provided above, the employee will be
paid eight (8) hours pay, at regular rate, for each day of notice not given.
10.06 Permanent layoffs shall be in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
Notice as described in 10.05 shall not be added to the notice requirements of the Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE 11 - LEAVE CF ABSENCE
11.01	An employee with seniority will be granted a leave of absence without pay upon presentation of a certificate of a physician attesting to illness or other disability which prevents such employee from performing their regular duties. When an employee is able to perform their regular duties such employee shall so advise the Company and shall report for work within seven (7) days of the time such employee is able to perform their regular duties or such employee shall lose all rights under this Agreement.
11.02	A female employee who becomes pregnant will be granted a leave of absence in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the Ontario Women's Equal Employment Opportunity Act. If she reports for work within two (2) months and seven (7) days from the date of delivery, she shall be returned to her former job or its nearest equivalent available. If she does not so report, she shall lose all rights under this Agreement.
11.03	On request from the Union, leave of absence without pay will be granted for official duties with the Union. Such leaves shall not exceed one (1) week continuous (except in the case of the International Convention) or three (3) weeks accumulative per employee in one (1) year, shall not apply to more than three (3) employees at any one time, and shall not apply to more than two (2) members of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee or the Local Executive at any one time.
11.04	On request from the Union, the Company shall grant leave of absence without pay to an employee for a period not exceeding such employee's first time of office, but not longer than one year for full-time service with the Union, provided that the number of employees who, at any one time, shall be granted such leave, shall be mutually agreed.
14
I
11.05	The Company may grant leave of absence without pay not exceeding three (3) months for reasons other than as set out herein. Such leaves shall not be refused unreasonably if such request is made in writing explaining the need for leave and is submitted a reasonable period prior to the required departure and specifies the date of return. Leave of absence must be approved in writing by the Company.
11.06	Seniority shall accrue during the forgoing leaves of absence.
ARTICLE 12 • HOURS OF WORK
12.01
(a)	The standard work week shall consist of forty (40) hours of work, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday, except for the Lime Wash Function which will be Tuesday to Saturday. Should production requirements dictate a change in the work week the Company agrees that if a two (2) day soak is in effect the work week will be Monday
to Friday, of more than a two (2) day soak is in effect than the work
week may be Tuesday to Saturday. This will apply to Wringing, Blue Sort and Lime Yard. Drying - if a five (5) day colouring is required than the work week will be Tuesday to Saturday.
If a four (4) day colouring is required than the work week will be Monday to Friday.
The Company may have up to two (2) Maintenance working the Tuesday to Saturday regular work week if at least eight (8) other employees are scheduled for Tuesday to Saturday as their regular work week. The Company further agrees to post the shifts for volunteers, if the volunteer cannot be secured than the Company will assign the shifts to the most junior qualified employees in the department.
The standard work day may be eight (8) or ten (10) hours per day, Monday to Friday, or as specifically provided for in each department.
Department
Regular Work Week
Lime Yard Wringing Setting Drying Blue Sort
Tuesday to Saturday Tuesday to Saturday Sunday to Thursday Tuesday to Saturday Tuesday to Saturday
The work day shall consist of eight (8) hours for the above
15
The regular work week for the following departments will be Monday to Friday:
Finishing	Final Sort
Plating
Pasting	Spiitting/Shaving
Toggling and Staking	Belt Trimming
Buffing	Fleshing
Tannery Forklift Tannery Operators Colour Operators Load Preparation Maintenance
If four (4) ten (10) hour days are implemented it will be scheduled Monday to Thursday or Tuesday to Friday.
(b)	For employees hired after July 1, 1994, for the Monday to Saturday shift, the work week shall consist of five (5) days, forty (40) hours from Monday to Saturday inclusive. The standard work day shall be eight (8) hours.
12.02	The foregoing constitutes no guarantee by the Company to any employee tf a specific number of hours or work, either per day or per week.
12.03	A schedule of the starting and stopping times of each shift, including breaks and lunches for each department, will be posted one (1) week prior to implementation. The day shift will not be required to commence work later than 7:00 A.M. The afternoon shift will not be required to commence work later than 4;00 P,M.
(a)	The Company will allow each employee who wishes one break period of ten (10) minutes during each half of a standard work day.
(b)	The lunch period shall be thirty minutes, and shall be unpaid, except for continuous shift workers (i.e. those that work in departments that work continuously for 24 hours) or those working as colour drum operators who shall be entitled to a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period.
(c)	Employees will not cease to work or leave their departments prior to the times posted by the Company unless otherwise instructed by their Foreperson.
16 -
(d)	Employees must be at their work assignments ready to commence work at the times posted by the Company, unless otherwise instructed by their Foreperson.
(e)	No employee will be allowed to work unauthorized or unpaid overtime in addition to their regular hours.
(f)	Each employee shall punch their own Time Card only. Punching Time Cards other than an employee’s own may be cause for dismissal.
(g)	When an employee is required to work overtime at the end of his shift, the employee will be given a ten (10) minute break prior to commencing overtime.
12.04	The Company agrees that it will not call for a short work week (e.g. 3 day week, or 4 day week) unless any one of the following occurs:
(a)	a major breakdown of equipment which interrupts production for more than eight (8) hours;
(b)	layoffs have taken place to the point where the Company seniority list contains less than ninety (90) names of actively employed individuals, for a period of five consecutive working days. Actively employed means any employee with seniority who has not been laid off, suspended or is not absent on Workers Compensation or Sickness Benefit or on voluntary leave;
(c)	after discussion with the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, and by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
(d)	in case of force majeure
In the event that plant wide shutdown cf 4 or more consecutive working days is required because of production levels, holidays and vacation period, or plant overhauls, the above clause will not apply during that period.
ARTICLE 13 • OVERTIME
13.01	Work performed other than as set out in Article 12 shall be paid for at one and one-half time the employee’s regular rate. However, work performed on Sundays or on holidays listed in Article 16 shall be paid for at twice the employee’s regular rate.
17
13.02	The Company undertakes to assign overtime work as equitably as circumstances permit among those employees generally performing the work.
13.03	Upon reasonable request, in writing, by the Union, the Company shall provide a list of overtime hours worked by employees.
13.04	In the event that the Company requires an employee to work overtime for a consecutive period of four (4) or more hours without having notified that employee the previous day, the Company will pay that employee a meal allowance of five (5) dollars.
13.05	Mechanical/Process Breakdown
In the event of a mechanical breakdown in the operations of "hide pick-up", "fleshing", "blue pick-up”, "wringing" and "blue sorting”, or in the event of a process breakdown which directly affects these operations, the daily workload for these operations must nevertheless be completed so as not to cause damage to the leather in process. Employees working in these operations shall be required under such circumstances to work overtime, if requested to do so by He Company, unless the employee has a reasonable explanation as to why he is not able to work the overtime.
13.06	In the event the Company requires an employee to work on his regular day off (excluding Sunday and Statutory Holidays) the employee will be paid one and one-half times (1 V)x) their regular rate of pay.
ARTICLE 14 - SHIFTS
14.01	Unless otherwise arranged, a shift will be considered as worked on the day it commences. A shift commencing before 12:00 noon shall be deemed to be a first shift. A shift commencing after 12:00 noon but before 8:00 P.M. shall be deemed to be a second shift.
A shift commencing after 8:00 P.M. but before 4:00 A.M. shall be deemed to be a third shift. When an employee works on a second shift he shall receive a premium of (.40) per hour. When an employee works on a rotating third shift, he shall receive a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour. When an employee works on a ■ permanent third shift, he shall receive a premium of $1.00 per hour. Such premium shall not be subject to overtime premium.
14.02	Third shift premium will be paid to employees starting the day shift prior to 6:00 A.M. The premium will be paid from the start of the shift until 6:00 A.M. only.
18
14.03	In the event that the Company requests an employee to temporarily change shift, such employee will be notified of such transfer twenty-four hours prior to the commencement of the shift to which the employee is to be transferred. Failure to provide such notice shall result in the payment at time and one half the employees regular hourly rate for all hours-worked on the first day of such transfer.
14.04	As long as there is unanimous agreement among those doing the rotating shift work, a fixed schedule can be established. subject to the approval of the Company.
ARTICLE 15 - WAGES
15.01	Schedule "A", attached to and forming part of this Agreement, sets out the basis of wage administration effective with the signing of this Agreement.
1(a) Any employee who as of May 28, 1994, has been paid at a higher rate than that shown in Schedule A, Table 1 shall be "red circled" for the term of such employee's employment with the Company. These employees are listed in Schedule "A", Table 3. The employee's red circled rate shall terminate if that employee has been laid off for a period of more than six continuous months, even if he subsequently returns to work pursuant to Article 10,01, Any employee, not listed in Table 3, replacing a red circled employee shall continue to receive the Schedule "A" Table 1 rate.
(b)	The employees listed in Table 3 shall be paid the red circled rate only when performing the specificjob described in Table 3. For any other work the employee will receive the Schedule A, Table 4 rate for the job performed, subject to the provisions of Article 10.01
(c)	Any red circled employee listed in Table 3 who supplants (bumps) a person on the red circled list (Table 3) will receive the Table 4 rate for the job performed. If a red circled employee supplants (bumps) a person not listed on Table 3 he/she will receive the rates as per Schedule "A", Table 1.
(d)	Effective February 1, 1998, there will be a twenty five cent (25C) increase to all wages and classifications in Table 1, Table 3 and Table 4. Effective February 1, 1999, there will be a further twenty five cent (25C) increase to all wages and classifications in Table 1, Table 3 and Table 4.
19
15.02
15.03
15.04
15.05
15.06
In the event that the Company wishes to introduce a piece work rate, such introduction shall not take place until the Company and the Union have agreed on a set of time study rules to govern the establishment of such piece work rates. If an agreement on such rules cannot be reached, either party may submit the matter of Tine Study Rules to Arbitration, pursuant to Article 8,
Notwithstanding the forgoing, it is recognized that an appreciable change in methods, equipment, material or working conditions willjustify an adjustment in hourly or piecework rates, and the degree of such change will be a major factor in determining the extent of such adjustment. To ascertain the extent of such adjustment the job will be evaluated by the job evaluation system described in Schedule D herein.
If any such adjustment is made during the life of the Agreement, the employees affected shall accept the new rates for at least fifteen (15) working days.
- If, at the end of such time, any employees affected are dissatisfied, the Steward or Stewards concerned may take the matter up with the appropriate supervisors and, failing prompt satisfaction, the matter may be processed as a grievance as follows:
Within fifteen (15) working days after the end of the fifteen (15) day period referred to above, the Bargaining and Grievance Committee shall request the Production Manager to arrange a meeting to review the question stating its reasons for disagreementand, within five (5) working days after such meeting, the Company shall deliver its final answer. If the Bargaining and Grievance Committee is not satisfied with the Company’s answer, it may, within ten (10) working days from the receipt of such answer, process the matter to arbitration as set out in Article 8 with the added provision that the Arbitrator shall be a person experienced in matters of this kind.
Rate adjustments made as a result of the foregoing procedure shall take effect from the beginning of the first fifteen (15) day period above unless otherwise agreed by the parties or directed by the Arbitrator.
An employee who, for the convenience of the Company, is temporarily transferred to work for which the rate of pay is different from that in effect for such employee’s regular work shall be paid, while so employed, as follows:
(a)	If the rate of pay for the work to which the employee is transferred is less than the employee’s regular pay, such employee shall receive their own higher rate of pay.
20
(b)	If the rate of pay for the work to which such employee is transferred is higher than the employee's regular pay, such employee shall receive 1he higher rate of pay for the work to which such employee is temporarily transferred.
15.07	An employee who, for the convenience and benefit of the employee, is temporarily transferred to other work instead of being laid off due to lack of work, breakdown of machinery or other like cause shall be paid, while so employed, as follows:
(a)	If the rate of pay for the work to which such employee is transferred is less than the employee's regular pay, such employee shall receive the lower rate paid for the work to which such employee is transferred.
(b)	If the rate of pay for the work to which such employee is transferred, is higher than the employee's regular pay, such employee shall receive the higher rate of pay for the work to which such employee is temporarily transferred, provided that the employee displays efficiency, skill or ability equal to that of the employees on the work to which such employee is transferred.
15.08	Notwithstanding 15.06 and 15.07 above, an employee shall be paid their regular rate for the balance of the shift on which this temporary transfer takes place.
(a)	Should breakdown, shortage of material or other cause of a temporary nature make it necessary for an employee to "stand by", such employee may be assigned other work but shall be paid at their regular rate for the remainder of their shift or for a maximum of four (4) hours, whichever shall first occur.
15.09	In the event an employee reports for work on their regular shift without previously having been told not to report, such employee shall receive at least four (4) hours' pay at their regular rate, or such employee may be required to perform four (4) hours' work at any job such employee is able to do, except in circumstances beyond the control of the Company, such as breakdown cf major machinery, fire and power failure.
15.10	The Company will set the rates for new classifications established during the lifetime of this Agreement provided that, after a trial period of fifteen (15) working days, the rate may be subject to the special grievance procedure as set out above. The existing rate structure shall be a major factor in determining such rates.
21
15.11	If, as a result of such new classification, an employee would receive a reduction in rate, such employee will have the right to be transferred to any other job in the plant providing such employee has the competence required to perform the job, and further providing that such employee has more seniority than the worker "bumped". The Company shall allow a reasonable training period if such is required. Until such time as the worker is transferred to another job carrying the same rate of pay, such employee shall continue to receive their old rate. Such employee shall exercise their right to be so transferred within four (4) months, after which time such employee shall forfeit such right and shall accept the rate set for the new classification.
15.12	The Union will co-operate in the elimination of waste, inefficient production and poor workmanship.
ARTICLE 16 - HOT,IDAYS
(a)	The Company recognizes the following holidays:
New Year's Day Dominion Day Good Friday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Two (2) Floater Days Victoria Day Civic Holiday
16.02	Each of the above holidays shall be observed on the day on which it falls unless otherwise declared by the appropriate government authority,
(a)	The two (2) Floater Days will be taken at a time mutually agreed to by the Company and the employee.
(b)	The Company also recognizes that for December 24th and December 31st, eight (8) hours will be paid for only if five (5) hours are actually worked on each day.
(c)	The Union recognizes that full co-operation will be required in implementation. For the above listed holidays, section 16.04 below will apply.
22 -
16.03	All employees will be paid for the above holidays at their regular hourly rate or eight times their average hourly earnings during the preceding week, as the case may be. In order to qualify for payment an employee must:
(a)	have acquired seniority as of the date of the day of observance of the holiday;
(b)	work the last scheduled work day prior to and the first scheduled work day after the observance of the holiday, save that an employee through sickness who provides the Company on the day of their return with an explanation of the illness, in writing, from a licensed physician or who has been granted permission by the Production Manager or designate to be absent on one or both of the above mentioned days only. An employee does not qualify for the above holidays if such employee has been laid off for a lack of work more than seven days prior to the observance of the holiday.
16.04	Any employee required by the Company to work on one of the above listed holidays and who does work will be paid the rate of double time for all hours worked, in addition to their holiday pay.
16.05	If, a statutory holiday falls during the employee's claim period for WCB, UIC, or Weekly Indemnity, the Company will pay only the difference between the holiday pay and the benefit payment payable for that day to such employee. In no way shall an employee be able to "pyramid" benefits.
16.06	Statutory Holidays for employees on a ten (10) hour work day, four (4) days a week, will be paid as follows:
If the Statutory Holiday falls on a day the employee is normally scheduled to work he/she will receive ten (10) hours pay. If the Statutory Holiday fails on a non-scheduled work day he/she will be paid eight (8) hours.
ARTICLE 17 ■ VACATIONS
17.01	Each employee with seniority shall have a yearly vacation with pay based on their service as at June 30th of that year, according to the following formula:
(a)	The first and second weeks of vacation shall be in accordance with the Ontario Employment Standards Act or the following, whichever is greater.
(b)	0 to 6 months service ■ Entitlement 0 weeks 4% of Gross Earnings.
23
17.02
17.03
17.04
17.05
(c)	6 months to 1 year service - Entitlement 1 week 4% of Gross Earnings or 40 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(d)	1 year to 4 years service - Entitlement 2 weeks 4% of Gross Earnings or 80 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(e)	4 years to 13 years service • Entitlement 3 weeks 6% of Gross Earnings or 120 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(f)	13 years to 21 years service - Entitlement 4 weeks 8% of Gross Earnings or 160 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(g)	21 years to 30 years service ■ Entitlement 5 weeks 10% of Gross Earnings or 200 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(h)	30 years or more service - Entitlements weeks 12% of Gross Earnings or 240 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
(i)	After 40 years of service - Entitlement? weeks 14% Gross Earnings or 280 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
For the purpose of this clause gross earnings shall mean the gross earnings of an employee from July 1st the previous year to June 30th of the year in which the vacations apply, including but not restricted to public holiday pay and previous vacation pay. For piece workers, regular hourly rate shall be their average piece work earnings for the one year prior to June 30th.
Such vacations shall be taken in the calendar year in which they apply, and so as to cause the least possible interference with operations. Vacations mist be exercised in the year they are due. Anyone asked by the Company to work during vacation periods shall be entitled to equivalent alternate time off without pay.
If the Company recalls an employee to work from their vacation, such employee shall be paid time and one-half in addition to their vacation pay.
(a) If an employee works less than 1200 regular hours during the twelve months preceding June 30, then his/her vacation pay will not be the greater of the calculations described in 17.01 above, but will be calculated as a percentage of his/her gross earnings for the hours actually worked during the twelve months.
24
(b)	Employees hired after July 1, 1994, must work 1500 regular hours or more during the twelve month period prior to June 30 in order to qualify for vacation pay calculated on the "whichever is greater" basis as described in Article 17.01.
17.06	Vacation pay will be paid on the last working-day of each department, during the phase-down for summer shutdown.
17.07	If an employee wishes to take more than three weeks vacation at any one time, then his/her request must be made in writing to the Company by April 1, If two or more employees request the same period, vacation will be assigned by seniority.
ARTICLE 18 - BENEFITS
18.01	The Company shall pay the full premium for full-time eligible employees, commencing the beginning of the month following the month in which that employee acquires seniority, for life insurance, weekly indemnity, major medical, prescription drug, and Ontario Health Insurance plans.
(a) In the event that the Government of Ontario reinstitutes an individual payment system for universal health insurance, such as O.H.I.P was, then the Company shall pay such premium on behalf of each employee.
18.02	It is agreed that any and all premium rebates to employees required by legislation on welfare matters will be applied directly towards the cost of the total welfare coverage.
18.03	Dental Plan
The Company agrees to participate in the United Food and Commercial Workers Trusteed Dental Plan and to remit for each Bargaining Unit employee enrolled effective January 31, 1996, twenty-two cents (22C) per hour worked, up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week, as defined below. January 31, 1997, the hourly remittance shall be increased by one cent (K) per hour.
18.04	Pension Plan
The Company agrees to participate in the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan and remit effective February 23, 1998, forty five cents (45C) per hour for each Bargaining Unit employee enrolled for all hours worked, to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week, as defined below.
25
The Company agrees to pay the short fall created in the Pension fund as of January 1, 1997 in the following manner:
From January 1, 1997 to February 1, 1997 nine cents (9C) per hour per member.
From February 1, 1997 to February 23, 1998 five cents (5C) per hour per member. Short fall will be paid for all members who were on the seniority list as of January 1, 1997 (active or non-active). The short fall will be paid by April 1, 1998.
18.05	In regard to the Dental Plan and the Pension Plan above:
(a)	The Company will remit the name, address, Social Insurance
Number and other data that may be required for proper recording and administration of the plans.
-	(b)	The Company’s only other administrative responsibility in the
above plans is to initially enroll the employees and to give out claim forms. The Company will not be responsible in any way for the management of these funds, or for the payment of any benefits relating to the Dental Plan or Pension Plan.
(c)	ffcurs worked shall include regular hours, overtime hours, vacation hours, statutory holidays, bereavement pay, or any other paid hours provided for in the Collective Agreement.
(d)	The Company shall remit such monies to the plan trustees by the 23rd of the month following the hours worked.
18.06	The payments under the Weekly Indemnity Plan shall be:
(a)	$300.00 per week Length of Coverage:
(52) weeks including Unemployment Insurance Coverage 3rd -17th week
(b)	For employees hired after July 1, 1994, the payments under the Weekly Indemnity Plan shall be $300,00 per week. Length of coverage is 41 weeks including U.I, coverage 3rd - 17th week.
26 -
(c)	After a claim of full duration eligibility is lost for further coverage
for a recurrence of the same injury or illness until the employee has returned and worked for a minimum period of sixty (60) working days.
18.07	The Company shall cease to pay all benefit premiums and benefit coverage shall cease:
(a)	for any employee laid off pursuant to Article 10(a), after thirteen (13) weeks from the date of layoff.
(b)	for any employee on leave of absence, after the first day of the month following commencement of leave.
(c)	unless the employee affected by paragraphs (i) and (ii) pays to the Company, in advance, prior to the first day of the month of coverage being purchased, the full monthly premium. as paid by the Company, for coverage or supplementary health care and life insurance benefits only.
18.08	The Company agrees to provide a vision care plan providing a benefit of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per person, including dependants, in any continuous period of 24 months. This plan will provide $200.00 for contact lenses if they are prescribed because vision cannot be corrected to 20/40 acuity or better with eye glasses, but can be with contact lenses.
ARTICLE 19 - BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE
19.01	In the event of death in the immediate family (spouse, father, mother, child, sister, brother, grandparent or parent-in-law) of an employee with seniority, such employee shall be granted, upon notification, up to three (3) successive regular working days of absence without loss of pay, including the day of the funeral. Payment will be based on the regular scheduled hours of work in the plant up to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day at the employee's regular day rate.
ARTICLE 20 - EMERGENCY GUARANTEE
20.01	If a maintenance employee has clocked out and left the premises, and is recalled to perform emergency work, such employee shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at one and one-half times their regular rate. The employee will be allowed to go home when the emergency job is finished and checked over.
27
ARTTCFF 21 ■ TOOT, ALLOWANCE
21.01	The following employees will be granted a tool allowance of up to $130,00 in any one calendar year for the replacement of tools. Payment will be issued promptly upon submission of receipts and a written description of the tools purchased.
D.	Campbell	W. Morrison
L. McRae	I. Rounis
E.	Onoufriou	R. Lue
Adolfa Cabral
21.02	The employees listed in 21.01 above who are not licensed tradespersons will normally do production work although they may be called upon from time to time, based on their qualifications, to do maintenance or repair work.
ARTTCT.F.22 - JURY DUTY
22.01	In the event that an employee is precluded from working their regular shift or shifts due to being called for and reponing for jury duty, the Company agrees to make up the difference in pay between the amount received for jury duty and the amount the employee would have received for working their regular shift or shifts. If the employee is not chosen, such employee must report back to work within two (2) hours. On being chosen for jury duty, the employee shall immediately notify the Company.
AR I KH 23 - SAFF.TY AM) HFAT.TH
The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment.
Protective clothing and devices deemed necessary by the Company, and as required by legislation, to protect employees from injuries shall be supplied by the Company.
Such protective clothing and devices must be worn and utilized by the employee as instructed, at all times, as necessary.
If the Company introduces a chemical, not previously used, the Joint Safety and Health Committee will determine it’s proper classification within the chemical group listing supplied by I, A, P. A, The Committee will also ensure that the precautions noted under the chemical classifications are adhered to in all respects.
The Company will provide water coolers in convenient places in the Plant
23.01
23.02
23.03
23.04
28
ARTICLE 24 • NOTICES
24.01	The Company agrees that notices concerning Union activities may be posted in the plant on the bulletin board provided by the Company, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Such notices shall receive the stamped approval of the Company prior to posting.
(b)	No change shall be made in any such notice, either by the Company or by the Union, after it has received the stamped approval of the Company.
(c)	No notice shall be posted except on the bulletin board as provided.
24.02	The Union agrees that it will not distribute or post or cause to be permitted to be distributed or posted on the property of the Company, for or on its behalf, any pamphlets, advertising or political matter, notices or any other kind of literature except with the written permission of the Company.
24.03	All notices and letters sent to the Union shall be addressed to the Full-time Representative, 2200 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 with a copy to the chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. The Union shall advise the Company of any changes in this address.
24.04	All notices and letters sent to the Company shall be addressed to The Vice President, A. R, Clarke Limited, 633 Eastern Ave., Toronto, Ontario, M4M 1E5.
24.05	The Company shall provide the Union, in writing, the names and titles of senior supervisory personnel.
24.06	The Company shall notify the Union Chairperson of any appreciable change of methods, equipment, material or working conditions.
ARTICLE 25 - FOOTWEAR/UNIFORMS
25.01	The Company will supply CSA approved safety shoes or boots on the basis of one pair per employee per year to be issued on or before December 1st. Employees will be required to return used pair of safety boots in order to receive the new pair. In the case of rubber boots, these will be replaced when necessary, only upon the return of the used pair. New employees will be required to provide their own first pair of safety boots. Such safety footwear must be worn by the employee at all times while at work.
29
25.02	The Company shall supply all maintenance employees with three (3) shirts and three (3) pairs of pants.
25.03	The Company agrees to provide uniformsfor all employees consisting of pants and shins. The Company will also be responsible for the laundering of such uniforms once per week.
30
ARTICLE 26 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
26.01	Unless changed by mutual consent, the tenniuLthi&Agreement shall continue in effect until the 31 st day of January 2000 and shall continue automatically' from year to year thereafter, unless eltherparty notifies the other in writing, not more than one hundred twenty (120) days and not less than thirty (30) days immediately prior to the expiration date, that it desires to amend or terminate the Agreement.
26.02	The parties shall agree upon a date, to begin negotiation, within fifteen (15) days following notification for amendment as provided hereinbefore
26.03	If, pursuant to such negotiations, an Agreement is not reached on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement, or the making of a new Agreement prior to the current expiry date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until a new Agreement is signed between the parties, or until conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Ontario Labour Relations Act have been completed, whichever date should first occur.
Signed this //) * day of	____________19 9^	.
FOR THE COMPANY;
FOR THE UNION:
£' V .-A I / r '' ‘ K t Teresa Suppa-Magee Union Representative
31
SCHEDULE"A" WAGE ADMINISTRATION
Hourly Rate
The basic hourly structure is shown in Table 1. These rates are effective July 1st, 1994, for all employees hired after that date. Employees receiving rates higher than those shown for their work are listed in Table 3 and will continue to receive the higher rates listed in Table 4 subject to Article 15,
Piece Work
The Company will make changes to piece work rates by application of Article 15.03, As of signing of Agreement there are no piece work rates in plant.
Starting Rates
Starting rates shall be adjusted as follows:
-	Start date to six months	-	20%	less	than	Table	1, job	rate
-	Six to twelve months	-	15 %	less	than	Table	1, job	rate
■ twelve to eighteen months	-	10%	less	than	Table	1, job	rate
Rates shall be calculated to the nearest cent.
Pay Equity
The Company has purchased the "Neutralizer" plan and has, with the Union, established a Pay Equity Committee, which has initiated a Pay Equity Program.
Upon the completion of the Sixty (60) day period, the Company and Union will meet to discuss any errors or omissions, of which they have been advised, in order to make the necessary changes to confirm Tables 1 and 3.
Wash Up Time
Rates which appear in Schedule "A", Tables 1, 3 and 4 reflect the elimination of the wash up time effective April 21, 1996.
32
SCHEDULE"A"- TABLE 1
Rate is based full 8 hours of work per shift on thatjob. Employees training on anyjob will receive level 1 scale.
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/98	EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/99
LEVEL 1-	$12.35
Feeding, Take Off, and Operators of all Finishing Equipment:
Spray
RCM
Ironing
DRM
Measuring
Oiling
Brushing Machine Stick Kiln or Kiln
$12.60
Plating
Embossing
Split Bundling • two persons Crust and Blue Trimmers Unbundling Hand Brushing Staking Helper Tradesman’s Helper
Any Dry End Work, not otherwise specified.
LEVEL 2
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/98	EFFECTIVE FEB 1/99
$13.35	$13.60
Side Measuring ■ Take off
Box Brusher
Staking
Toggling
Spot and Buffing
Setting Out
Feeder/LTD Drier
Feeder/Split Conveyor
Baler
Vacuum Dryer Side Bundling - one person Wringer ■ Take Off Splitter ■ Take Off
Any Wet End Work, not otherwise specified.
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/98	EFFECTIVE FEB 1/99
LEVEL 3-	$14.52
Forklift or Electric Truck Operator Hide House Operator Grease Operator Wringers
$14,77
Side and Split Buffers
Blue Split conveyor Trimmer and Sorter
Shavers
Hide Trimmer
Crust Sorter
33
)
LEVEL 4
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/98
EFFECTIVE FEB 1/99
$15.22
$15.47
Sample Work Final Sorters Beam House Operator Class A Finish Mixer
Lime Pulling Blue or Colour Pickup Hide Hooking Fleshing
LEVEL 5 -
Tan Drum Operator Colour Drum Operator
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/98
$15.97	$16.22
Blue Sorter - one person Splitter Operator
MAINTENANCE	EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/98
Licensed Tradesperson with:
-	Trade School Certificate (or 120 hours or more of instruction)*
-	2 licenses
-	3 or more licenses
$16.24
$18.29
$20.33
EFFECTIVE FEB 1/98
$16.49
$18.54
$20.58
MISCELLANEOUS
Watchman
Janitorial
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/98
$11.10
Painting Yard Work
EFFECTIVEFEB 1/99 $11.35
34
scui nru "A" - tabt,f,2
(a)	The Company agrees to contribute two cents (2C) per hour, for all hours worked by bargaining unit employees, to the "United Food & Commercial Workers Education and Training Fund". In determining hours worked and date of remittance the terms set out herein before in Article 18, (c) and (e) shall apply.
The remittance shall be made payable to "U.F.C.W, Local 175, Education and Training Fund" and shall be mailed to the Local Union Secretary-Treasurer a! the address set out herein before in Article 24 as may be amended from time to time.
(b)	The Company agrees to pay 50% of cost of printing the new Collective Agreement.
35
271
944
92
598
433
157
96
93
41
91
611
831
67
318
64
48
355
61
124
553
066
579
613
300
575
398
201
297
551
546
597
058
SCHEDULE "A" - TABEE3
RED CIRCLED RATES PRIOR TO MAY 28; 1994
EMPLOYEE NAME
Bozo Relic Zaim Asimofski Ha Chay Bach Adolfo Cabral Donald Campbell Joe Chodelka Chris Evangelou Risto Gagovski Giuseppe Gregorino Vasilkj Hladun Risto Karlovski Stanley Kuliczkowski Carlisle Maynard Wayne Morrison Elias Onoufriou Nicola Parente Domenico Ravaglia Panagiotis Sapanidis Ricardo Capoena Sain Germano Pegios Jean Grosso Vincenzo Warriner Alex Rounis John Gagovski Mitre Boussoulas Tony Ivancic Vera Draganidis Sideris Spasevski Nikola Saveski Ivanka Asimofski Barija McRae Leonard Veil Zarif
JOB DESCRIPTION
& REGULAR	EFFECTIVE
ASSIGNMENT	FEB 1, 1998
Lime Pulling
Presort/Lead Hand
Shaver
Mechanic
Mechanic
Plating -
Shaver
Finishing/Feed • Takeoff
Wet Blue Trimmer
Split Operator/Maintenance
RCM Op
Setting
Lime Puller
Electrician
Mechanic
Truck Op
Splitter
Finish - Feed/Takeoff Split Conveyor Sorter Finish Feed/Take Off Finish Feed/Take Off Frk/Electric Trk Op Vacuum Dryer LIC TRD - 3/3 + LIC Vaccum Dryer Vacuum Dryer Spray
Grain Buffer Vacuum Dryer Final Sorter Final Sorter LIC TRD - 2 LICS Baler
$19.87
$16.24
$16.00
$16.13
$17.47
$15.12
$17.40
$15.97
$17,13
$18,32
$15,08
$16,25
$19.87
$18.49
$17.52
$16,62
$18.05
$15.53
$15.50
36
EFFECTIVE FEB 1. 1999
$20.12
$16.49
$16.25
$16.38
$17.22
$15.37
$17.65
$16.22
$17.38
$18.57
$15.33
$16.50
$20.12
$18.74
$17.77
$16.87
$18,30
$15.78
$15.75
EM PA	EMPLOYEE NAME
JOB DESCRIPTION Si REGULAR ASSIGNMENT
EFFECTIVE
FEB 1. 1996
135
293 316 212 122
294 306 319 006 323 148 304 123 121 799 812 824 841 936 001 067 999 500 007 Oil 920
922
923 925 928 951
957
958
961
962
963 966
Kiru Vasilis Dutcher Milton Kouimizis Stellios Wu Yuen Loon De Stefano Pasquale Raja Akram Fong Chi-Lo Li Mou Hsiang Relic Bozo Khan Masood Monti Lorenzo Kolevski Nikolce Li Kuo Wei Chung Li Chuan Raja Abbas Pimenta Manuel Estes Anastasios Raja Mohammed Ngan Foo Hoang The Hung Morrison Wayne Purba Gurmail S.
Ku Chih Hsin Truong A-Duong Liao Ko Hugh Khai See So Kwok Kuen Momodou Nyan Suwareh Saikou Chu Wan Sheung Sillar Sainey Huang Ying Sheng Rasja Naeem Chen Kuo An Wood Jeffrey Hau Due Tu Kostovski Krste
Vacuum Dryer Toggling Vacuum Dryer Grain Buffer Colour Drum Oper CL A Finish Mixer Vaccuum Dryer Colour Drum Oper Lime Pulling Tan Drum Oper Vacuum Dryer Wet Blue Trim Tan Drum Oper Colour Drum Oper RCM
Beam House Oper
Receiver
Tan Drum Oper
L.T.D.
Plating Electrician Hide House Oper Shaver Grain Buffer Staking Plating RCM
Hide Fleshing Finish Feed/Take Off Finish Feed/Take Off Blue & Colour Pick Up Staking Grain Buffer Blue Sort
Forklift/Elec Trk Oper
Splitter
Setting Out
37
EFFECTIVE FEB 1. 1997
968
657
627
628
629
636
656
649
662
663
664
666
667
668
639
EMPLOYEE NAME
Stanojcic Slobodan Stavreski Naumce Hamad Fatmeh Change Chih Liang Myjak Peter Chen Huai-Chang Miclat V, Antonio Kamara Karim Li 1m Hsiung Miclat M, Dominic Chiu Kuo Hsiang Miclat M. Viressa Kolevski Bogdanka Zhong Dai Ling Lue Rickardo
JOBDESCRJPTION
& REGULAR	EFFECTIVE
ASSIGNMENT	TO 1. 1996
Setting Out
Beam House Oper
Measuring Equip
Vacuum Dryer
Blue & Colour Pick Up
Finish Feed/Take Off
Plating
Blue Sort
RCM
Hide Fleshing
Plating
Bundling
Finish Feed/Takeoff Spray
Feeder/LTD Dryer
38
EFFECTIVE
FEB 1. 1997
SCHEDULE "A" ■ TABLE 4 (RED CIRCLED RATE CATEGORIES)
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/98	EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/99
Watchmen	$13.34	$13.59
LEVEL "A"	$14.80	$15.05
All light Qy End duties including:
Feeding and Take Off of all Finishing,
Spray
RCM
Ironing
DRM
Measuring Equipment
Bundling
Gauging
Split Trimmers Blue/Crust
Sample Work
Spray and RCM Operators
Oiling Operators
LEVEL "B"	$15.08	$15.33
Brushing Machine Feed and Take Off;
Box Brusher Staking '
Stick Kiln Toggling
Spot and Back Buffing Plating
Setting Out	,
Feeder/LTD Drier Feeder/Split Conveyor
39
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/98
LEVEL "C” -	$15.35
Fork Lift or Electric Truck Operator Hide House Operator Grease Operator Baler
Embossing Machine Feeders Vacuum Dryer Operators Wringers
Grain Buffers
Blue Split Conveyor Trimmer and Sorter
LEVEL "D"	$15.60
Final Sorters Shavers
Embossing Machine Operator Beam House Operator Class A Finish Mixer
LEVEL"E"
$16.20
Tan Drum Operators
Colour Drum Operators
Whole Hide Fleshing Hide Hooking
Lime Pulling
Blue and Colour Pick Up
Blue Sorter
Splitter
40
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/99 $15.60
$15.85
$16.45
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/99
EFFECTIVE FEB. 1/98
Maintenance
Unlicensed Tradesperson	$15.58
Licensed Tradesperson with:
-	Trade School Certificate
or 120 hours or more of instruction $17.31
- 2 licenses	$18.49
- 3 or more licenses	$20.63
New jobs will be added to the correct level.
41
$15.83
$17.56
$18.74
$20.75
SCHEDULE "B"
The following staff are covered by Article 2,02, and are permitted to perform the work described below, based on the maximum hours per day.
3 hrs.	Albert Duffet
checking leather, slot test; trimming, moving of skids, splitting, and shaving; and general maintenance, plant improvements and cleaning.
3 hrs.	Leeland McGregor
moving tables of leather with electric truck; moving wet leather/horses to and from drying areas, checking, sorting and trimming leather; sample drying, testing machinery & process, start/stop machinery, fork lift operator.
3 hrs.	Bobby Patel:
moving leather with electric truck; may operate, feed, or take off from any finishing equipment: colour mixer and matcher.
3 hrs.	Richard Dziemianko:
move leather with electric truck, colour mixing. May operate, feed, or take off from any finishing equipment.
8 hrs.	Louis Cabral:
sample finishing, colour mixing, may operate, feed, or take off from any finishing equipment.
8 hrs.	Sirrunie Wong:
colour matching, sample spraying, lab testing, may operate any finishing equipment.
8 hrs.	Therold Lue:
maintenance or repairs of any nature.
2 hrs.	Kalco Kalzovski
forklift driving; shipping and receiving; maintenance and repairs of any nature.
8 hrs.	Charles Behiok:
dye matching, colour drum operating.
8 hrs. Tommy Skarjak:
dye matching, colour drum operating.
42
8 hrs.	German Alabaszowski:
watchman. 4 hours: any type of production work.
3 hrs.	Paul Novisedlak;
Moving tables of leather with electric truck; move wet leather/horses to and from drying areas; checking, sorting and trimming leather; sample drying, testing machinery and process; start/stop machinery; fork lift operator.
1.	The parties agree that the staff may perform bargaining unit work for the purpose of a) instruction, b) introduction and/or testing of new procedures or equipment, e) in the case of an emergency, or d) when no bargaining unit employee is available who has the skills required for the job.
2.	Staff will be permitted to do bargaining unit work other than described above by mutual consent of the Union and Company, both parties acting reasonably.
43
SCHEDULE"C"
PAY EQUITY
The parties hereto agree that once the Pay Equity Plan is in place, under the Pay Equity Act of Ontario, the resultant Benchmark Job points and job questionnaires will be a basis for future re-evaluation of the jobs using the NEUTRALIZER Evaluation Plan.
All new bargaining unit jobs created by the Company will be evaluated using the NEUTRALIZER.
Any disputes arising as a result of such Post Pay Equity evaluations or reevaluations which are not settled by the grievance procedure will be submitted to Arbitration as provided herein before.
44
Name.........
Address......
Phone........
Soc. Ins. No..,. Work Address. Work Phone,,.. Union Steward Phone........
United Food & Commercial Workers U.F.C.W. Locals 175 and 633 2200 Argentla Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 2K7 Phone: (905) 821-8329
Toll-free outside Metro Toronto 1-800-565-8329 Fax (905)821-7144
LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT U.F.C.W.
LOCAL 175
Dear Fellow Members:
I wish to welcome new membersto Locals 175 and 633 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, and to thank long standing membersfor their continued support and assistance over the years.
New or seasoned, I hopeyou will all readthis contract and become aware of your rights and privileges as union members. ll Is an important document. It identifies and guarantees your income, benefitsand job security whileyouworkfor your current employer. Like an insurance policy, a warranty for a new car, or the deed to your home, it is an agreement you accepted when you took the job. fyou are not aware of the agreement you entered into, like any other, it is of little value to you personally.
As a union member with a contract, you have the freedom to plan for the future. You will know what your income will be two years In advance. Your rights and benefits are written down and cannot be revoked, and your job security is a primary element. Non-union workers do not have this protection. Their wages and benefits may be cut at any time, as may their jobs.
Be aware of your contract. if unsure about an item or if you think your concern is not covered, speak to your Union Steward. He or she is a co-worker trained by the Union to help you with concerns and grievances in the workplace, if the problem cannot be settled by the Steward, afull-time Union Representative can be contacted at any time to assist you.
We work as your full-time representatives and advisors.
In addition to Stewards in the workplace and Union Representatives who support them, we also have a team of professionals who provide support.
We should ail be proud of ourUnlon’s achievements. V\fe have proven many times that employers can treat their workersfairly and stili run their business efficiently and profitably.
Inthe United Food and Commercial Workers' Union, we are committed to job security In an ever changing social environment. Only your Union can be relied upon to protectyour rights.
Your Union offers you representation before the Workers' Compensation Board. If you are Injured on the job, our trained staff will support you and help you in any way they can.
Non-Unionworkers are at the mercy of their employer. This is one reason our Local Union continues to grow.
Our organizing team works around the clock to help bring other workers under the union umbrella. If you know of someone who works in a non-union environment, do them a favour and give our organizers a call.
We also believe in the education of our members and their children. Lack of economic resources should not be a hindrance to further education. In this regard, the UFCW offers a number of scholarshipsat the local, national and international level. They are for your benefit as Union members. Use them.
in addition, your Union works to keep you up-to-dateabout legislation concerning Sunday work, pay equity, UIC and pensions, to name a few.
Your Local Union represents some 40,000 membersacross Ontario. As we continue to grow, we have moved to keep up with the growth In areas of servicing and all-round members' support. Included in this booklet is a list of Union representatives and other professionals there to support you, the member.
Only by ail of us working together can we keep what we have gained over years of hard negotiations and obtain what is right-
fully ours In the future. Our labour maybe the only commodity we have to sell. Let us not sell it cheaply.
Please feel free to contact me at any time with questions or concerns about the Union. This is your Union. You put the 'Ll' in our Union.
In Solidarity,
Michael J. Fraser, President,
U.F.C.W. Local 175.
OFFICERS
Michael J. Fraser President
Belly Pardy Recorder
Wayne Hanley Secretary-Treasurer
Ron Sprlngall
Executive Assistant
As the elected officers of Local 175, it is our job to ensure the smooth running and day-to-day operations of your Local Union. We representsome 40,000 members across Ontario, of whom some 25,000 are retail workers. Others work in a wide variety of units, including nursing homes, funeral homes, hotels, processing plants, and manufacturing plants. This requires versatility, knowledge and tirelesseffort. To accomplishthis job, we must be supported by a staff equally knowledgeable in their field of expertise. These include your Union Steward, Union Representatives, Benefits Representatives, a staff lawyer and communications. If we are not available or cannot answer a given question, we have the resources to find out. Remember, we are here to serve you.
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS
The United Food and Commercial Workers is one of the largest, most powerful and respected unions in North America. You aieoneof 185,000 membersln Canada and 1,400,000 members in North America.
The UFCW is the result of a merger between two of the oldest and most respected unions in North America; the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North Amenca and the RetailClerks International Union. This mergertook place on June 6,1979. The new union represents workers in nearly ail aspects of Canadian life and is mirrored in the makeup ot Locals 175 and 633.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 176 AND 633
Your local unions, with over 40,000 members, is the largest UFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada. Your localls larger than the majority ot unionsin North America.
This Local hasthe expertise,financial stability and resources to provideyou, the member, with the best negotiatingteam, the best legal assistance, and the best all around service of any union in the country.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175 and 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD LOCAL 175 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
PRESIDENT
Michael J. Fraser, Mississauga
SECRETARY-TREASURER
Wayne Hanley, Oakville
RECORDER
Betly Pardy, London VICE-PRESIDENTS RIckAlaglerskl, Mississauga Toni Armstrong, Hawkestone Bryan Bralthwalle, Chatham John Brodhagen, Chesley Judith Burch, Scarborough Freda Courtnage, Brantlord Bruce Oosman, Hanover Hyacinth East, Stoney Creek Colby Lynn Flank, Thunder Bay David Fox.Napanee Sheila Orant, Belleville Wayne Harbin, Guelph Tim Kelly, Stratford Masood Khan, Scarborough Clllt Kostynluk. St, Catharines
Marilyn Lang, Cobourg Angus Locke, Kitchener Julie Marenlette, Belle River Rosemarie Mathleu, Scarborough Rodney Merkley, Thunder Bay James Montgomery, Welland Pat Newell, Port Hope Philip Palahnuk, Waterlord Cindy Rarie, Kenora Leslie Sardo-VIscuglla, Hamilton Christopher Scott. Cambridge Ron Sprlngall, Kitchener Margaret White, Trenton Thomas Williams, Baltimore Coreena Zurkan, Kenora
LOCAL 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
PRESIDENT
Dan Bendy, Amherslburg
SECRETARY-TREASURER Linval Dixon, Whitby
RECORDER
Patricia Bain, Wlllowdale
VICE-PRESIDENTS
Sherry Casagrande, Saul! Sie. Mario Neii Hotchkiss, McGregor Roy Reed. Orillia
What You Get For Your Union Dues
•	Higherthan average wages and benefits. According to recent government statistics, unionized workers make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefits than non-union workers i n the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding Investment in your future.
•	Job Security. Your Union will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and It Is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protect your rights, if you are unjustly discharged, your Union will spare no expense in getting you backtowork. Does a non-union worker have that kind of security?
. Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights are vitally Importantto your Union. Did you deserve a promotion and not get it? Are non-bargaining unit peopledoingyourwork? Wfere your bumping rights ignored? Is your sick pay late in corning? Have you been unfairly disciplined for a veiy minor mistake? The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to go I o bat for you. In a non-union workplace you have no rights except what management chooses to allowyou.
•	ProblemswithWforkers' Compensation or Employment Insurance? The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agencies. These services are free to you, should you ever need them. Non-union workers are usually in the dark and out In the cold in these matters. They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help.
•	Pensions, Dental Insurance, Sick Pay, Disability Insurance, elo. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness of accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yours? You bet they would!
Add up what you paid In Union Dues last year (don't forget that they are tax-deductible). Comparethat amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer, movies, cable television or "impulse" gilts.
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected front-line representativeof the United Food and Commercial Workers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights andto representyou to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be Important In winning your grievance. A Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will eitherglve you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Union Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Stewardto looklnto a violation of your contract rights unlessyou are willing to file a grievance f necessary. Their time is as important as yours. Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you are willing to see It through.
Despite the trouble involved in the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you're not afraidto ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Union Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
UNION SCHOLARSHIPS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
Unions believe that colleges and universities should be open to all qualified students, regardless of their income. Education at all levels is a social Investment in the future which yields the greatest returns.
Scholarships can help. The U n I te d Food and Com m a rc la I Workers Union have three scholarship programsavailable to all members and their children. The International Union annually awards $80,000 to 22 applicants across North America. These are the JamesA Suffrldge Fund and the Earl W, Jlmerson Scholarship.
UFCW Canada also awards a number of William J. Beggs, Fred Dowling and Romeo Mathieu Scholarships every year to Canadian membersand their children. These grants are worth $500 each.
UFCW Locals 175 and 633 award 35 Mattie McKay-Pat Thompson Scholarshipsworth up to a maximum of $750 each.
Local members have beenlrequent scholarship winners in the past and it Is hoped that this good fortune will continue. In order to compete, applications must be sent in well ahead of time.
Applications lor the UFCW International Union Scholarships must be submitted by December31 c! the year before you plan to enter e post secondary Institution.
For the Beggs, Dowling, Mathieu Scholarships, you must apply before September ol the year you first enter college or university.
The deadline for the Mattie McKay-Pat Thompson Scholarship is August 1 ol the year you plan I o enter post secondary education.
There are a limited number of scholarships available, so every, one who needs and deservesone cannot alwaysrecelve one. However, you will never get one unlessyou apply. Call or write the UFCW, Locals 175 and 633, Education Committee lor details.
Good Luck!
WORKERS' COMPENSATION
The Workers' CompensationBoard(WCB) insuranceprogram protects workers against loss of incomedueto lob-related disabilities. Here are answers to the most commonly asked questions about WCB benefits:
What do Ido II I have an accident at work? All accidents, even minor ones must be reportedto managementimmedlately. If the accident is serious enougnto leave work you must seekmealcal attention assoon as possible. Accidents which only require a short recovery period or simple first aid must be recorded in the first aid book which every workplace Is required by law to have.
What forms must be tilted out to receive compensation? Two forms are essential in order to receive WCB benefits, First, the yellow "Employer's Report ol Accident (r I n d u st ri a I Diseases'' must befllled out by management if, and only if:
(a)	You consult a doctor about your work-related disability, and/or
(b)	You lose work time beyond the day of the accident.
Please notethatyou do not have to actually losetimefrom work in orderto initiateaWCB claim. Even if you consult a doctor and are sent backto work the next day, youremployer mustflle their report. This is known as a "No Lost Time claim.
The second form is a form called "Doctor's First Report". There should be a supply of these at your workplace and most doctors and hospitals will have them as well. This is filled out by your doctor at the time of your first visit for your disability. The doctor sends this form directly to the WCB.
Whal ere WCB benefits worth? Once your claim is allowed, you will receive 90% ot your net pre-accident earnings. WCB benefits are non-taxable. Maximum insurable earnings are 175% of the average Industrialwage. This is re-calculated every year based on slats publicized by Statistics Canada WCB cheques are sent every two weeks. A normafaccident claim will take from lour to six weete to process before you begin receiving benefits, assuming that the two important forms are submitted right away.
How long do WCB benefits last? Most people who have workplace accidentsare backto work Within six weeks Serious injuriescan take months or even years to recoverfrom. For betweenone year and eighteen monthsif you are judged to be totally disabledand the disabilityis consideredtemporary.theWCB will continueto pay benefits. After that, awage loss system will begin. If you are permanently injured, the WCB can award you a very small permanent pension for the pain and suf-
faring caused by the injury and some wage loss compensation.
It you are Injured after January 2,1990, you have a right to re employmenl alter the Injury. This right lasts lor two years, Even If you have permanent limitations on your ability to work, you still have the right to return to work There are lour steps In this process.
1.	It you can do your old job without any restrictions, your employer has to offer it to you.
2,	II you could do your old job it It were modified, then that has to be done.
3,	If you can't do your old job even If Itwere changed, then your e m oloyer has to oner you another job.
4.	If you can do another lob If Itwere modified, then your employeris required to do this.
What II I have a health problem that Is caused by my |ob but I didn’t have an accident at wort? Back problems, tendonitis, carpal tunnel syndrome, fibromyalgia, Ring & Bag syndrome, etc, are just a tew of the work-related disabilities suffered byllFCW members, if you feel you may be in the non-accidentalwork-relateddisablllty category, first consult your doctor. If he or she agrees that your problem is cr Is likely to have been caused by your job, a Doctor's First Reportshould be submitted right away. Inform your employer of your doctor's opinion and askthat the Employer's Report of Accident or Industrial Disease be submitted. Your employer cannot refuse to fill out this form. Only the WCB can decide whether or not you have a legitimatedaim.
What happmslf my claim Is turned down by the WCB? You can appeal an adverse decision by the WCB, The Unionwlll assist you and represent you, without charge, Do not consult a lawyer, since their services are not tree. The Union employs WCB experts to help you.
Wouldn't I be better of) claiming sick pay? In most cases NO. Hcwever, II you have a non-acdderitaldisabilfty which requires you to take time off from work consult the Union lor advice.
Does the WCB cover part-timers? Yes The same rules and ben-' slits apply, regardlessof the number of hours you work per week What if my benefits erelale or are cut off tor some reason? Con-tactthe Unionofflce without delay. All WCB enquiries are treated in the strictest confidence.
Remember: Newer let management talk you out of filing a WCB claim, You mayregrelit later, when your disability won't go away, ft Is Illegal lor managementto Inlerfere with your right to make a WCB claim, I) you have any problemsor concerns, contact the Union office,
(
At the time of printing, changes to the Workers' Compensation Act, Bill 99 Is before !he Legislature.
There are some significant changes in Bill 99 that will reduce the rights of injured workers. The new legislation is likely to come into effect in the fall of 1997.
EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (formerly UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE)
On June 30,1996 the Employment Insurance Act came into effect. Additionalchanges became effective January 1,1997. The new system reflectsa fundamental reslructuring of the old Unemployment InsuranceSystem.
"Where lo Apply?"
Apply at the local Human Resource Centre of Canada. Check the telephone directory under Human Resources Development Canada or Canada EmploymentCentre for the office nearest you. Regular Benefits:
You can receive regular benefits if you lost your job and you canl find work, provided that you meet these requirements:
•	you have paid into the El account;
•	you have worked the required minimum number of hours in the last 52 weeks; the number of hours of work needed, may rangefrom 420-700 hoursdependingon the unemployment rate in your region.
•	there are two exceptions: It this Isyour first job ever, or your first job after coming back into the workforce after an absence of two years or more, you will need a minimum of 910 hours of work to qualify regardless of the local unemployment rate.
In most cases you will receive 55% of your insured earnings to a maximum of $413 per week. Claimants who are in a low income family (an income of less than $25,921) with children and receivethe Child Tax Benefitwill receive a Family Supplement based on your Child Tax Benefit. Your benefit rate can be increased to a maximum of 65% but not greater than the maximum benefit rate of $413.
Claimants can collect benefits between 14 and 45 weeks depending on the unemployment rate in their region, and the number of hours they have worked in the last 52 weeks.
How to Calculate the Benefit Amount?
The benefit rate is based on your average insured earnings In the last 26 weeks of work. Your insured earnings will be averaged over a number of weeks known as a divisor, The divisor is the greater of:
(a)	the numberof weeks of insuredearningsinthe Iast26 week period; or
(b)	the numberof weeks specified in the divisor table.
F you worked tor only the minimum number of weeks required to qualify, or for one week longer than that, then the minimum divisor applies to you.
Intensity Rule:
Any week of regular benefits collected after June 30,1996 could affect your benefit rate on future claims. Weeks of benefits claimed will stay on your claim history for five (5) years. Working while on a claim can help you to reduce the number of weeks on your claim history. Your claim history is maintained lor five years.
Work Credits:
Claimants who work while they receive regular benefits and earn enough to reducetheir El chequeswill be able to earn work credits to be applied against the Intensity rule. The total amount they save the El system by working while on a claim will be converted into weeks of unpaid benefits. Those weeks will then be credited against the application of the Intensity rule for the next claim in the next five years.
Sick Benefits:
Sick benefitsare paidfor upto 15 weeks, if you have700 hours of insurable employment i n the last 52 weeks or since the start of your last claim. Fyou get sick after your employmentwas interrupted for another reason, such as temporary layoff, you may be eligible with less than 700 hours. Medical reports are necessary.
Maternity Benefits:
You must have worked and paid El premiums lor at least 700 hours in the last 52 weeks, or since the beginning of your last El claim. You can start collecting maternity benefits up to 8 weeks before you are scheduled to give birth.' However, benefits cannot ■ be receivedlaterthan 17 weeksatterthe babyis dueor born, unless the infant is confined to a hospital.
Parental Benefits:
Parental benefits can be collected for up to 10 weeks by both natural and adoptive parents while they are caring lor a newbornor adopted child, the time allotment may be extended to 15 weeks it the child is six months or older at the time ot arrival in your home and suffers from a physical, psychological or emotional condition that requires extended care. The benefits can be claimed by one parent or split between the two, but if they are split, each parent will have a two week waiting period,
Benefits are paid at 55% of your average insured earnings up to a maximum of $413 per week Discharge or Quit:
No regular benefitsare paidto those workers who quitajob without lust cause or who are tired for misconduct. You may appeal a disqualification. Contactyour Unionif you need assistance with your appeal.
FOR MORE INFORMATION
com ac i
HUMAN RFSOUHCI 0 OTVIIOI’MI NT CANADA OH
CANADA I MCI OYMI NT CI.NIHL.
SHOULD YOU HAVE A PROBLEM CALL YOUR
LOCAL UNION REPRESENTATIVE FOR HELP!
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 4 SAFETY ACT
Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live uptotheir responsibilities underOn-tario's Occupational Health and Safety Act. Here is a quick guide to the Act. For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book which must be posted in every workplace. Employer's Duties
Among other things, the employer must:
•	Provide information, instruction and training so that the employee can work in a safe manner.
•	Acquaint the worker with any workplace hazard.
•	Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
•	Co-operate with and assist the health and safety committee and representative.
•	Tate eveiy precautionreasonablefortheprotectlon oftheworker. Supervisor's Duties
Instores, the Supervisor is normally the Store Manager. He must:
•	Ensure that the worker works in a safe manner and uses all the equipment,protective devicesor clothingthat is required.
•	Advise a worker of any potential or actual danger to health and safety.
•	Provide written safety instructions, where required.
•	Be familiar with the Act and regulations.
Note: Department Heads in the bargaining unit must also ensure that workers work In a safe manner, as above, but they cannot discipline workers who refuse, for example, to wear safety equipment If a meat manager is unableto convince a fellow worker to wear a mesh apron when he is requiredto do so, he should simply report the situation to the Store Manager.
Workers' Obligations
•	Use all safety equipment and wear all protediveclothing required by the employer,
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety equipmentto your Supervisor,
•	Obey the Health and Safety law and all regulations and report any violations ol the law or regulationsto your Supervisor.
Workers may not:
•	Remove or turn off any safely device.
•	Use any equipment or work in a manner which may endanger yoursell or another worker.
•	Engage in horseplay of any kind.,
The RiQht to Refuse Unsafe Work
It you encounter an unsafe Conditional work, your first obligation is to report it to your Supervisor. Once you have done that, you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that:
•	Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is likely to endanger yourself or another worker, or
•	The condition of the workplace itself is hazardous.
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal. He must then investigate the matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representative of the workers (normally the Steward or a member of the Health & Safety Committee). If the Supervisor orders you back to work and you aie still not satisfiedthat the job is safe, you may continueto refuse to work, provided you have reasonable grounds to believe the condition still constitutes a hazard.
At this point, the Inspedorfrom the Ministry of Labour must be called in. While you are waiting for him, the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he is informed that the job was refused and the reasonsfor the refusal. This second worker also has the same right to refuse. The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable alternative work, subject to the Collective Agreement.
The decision of the Inspectorls final. Although his order may be appealed, you must return to the job if he so orders, pending the outcome of such appeal.