Collective Agreement
between
A.R. Clarke & CO. Ltd Toronto, Ont.
And
United Food& Commercial Workers’ Union, CLC, AFL-CIO, Local 175
Begins:
02/01/1991
Terminates:
01/31/1992
00780 (05)
LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT U.F.C.W.
LOCALS 175/633
Dear Fellow Members:
This contract is one of the most important documents you own. It is a written guarantee of your income, benefits and job security. Like an insurance policy, it gives you piece of mind because you cannot lose your job arbitrarily. Non-Union workers do not enjoy this security.
This contract allows you to plan for the future because you know what your income will be as much as two years in advance. NonUnion workers can have their wages and benefits cut at any time without warning.
Please do not take this collective agreement for granted. Protect it as you would your valuable property. Be on guard. Do not let your contract rights be violated in any way.
If you believe you are not being treated fairly by the company, speak to your Union Steward. He or she is trained by the Union to handle complaints and grievances. fyour problem is a complicated one, a full-time Union Representative can be called on at any time to assist you.
Wfe should all be proud of our Union’s achievements. Wfe have proven many times that employers can treat their workers fairly and still run their business efficiently and profitably.
In the United Food and Commercial Workers’ Union, we are com-mittedto job security in an ever changing social environment. Only your Union can be relied on to protect your rights.
Your Union can be counted on for help when you have problems with management.
Your Union is 100% dedicatedto improvingyour wages, benefits and job security.
Your Union offers you protection from and representation before the Workers’ CompensationBoard. fyou are injured on the job, our trained staff will support you and help you in any way they can in the interim.
Non-Union workers are at the mercy of their employer. This is one reason our Local Union continues to grow.
Our organizing team works around the clock to help bring other workers under the union umbrella, f you know of someone who works in a non-union environment, do them a favour and give our organizers a call.
Wb also believe in the education of our members and their children. Lack of economic resources should not be a hindrance to further education. In this regard, the UFCW offers a number of scholarships at the local, national and international level. They are for your benefit as Union members. Use them.
In addition, your Union works to keep you up to date about legislation concerning Sunday work, pay equity, UIC, and pensions, to name a few.
Your Local Union represents some 44,000 members across Ontario. Ps we have continued to grow, so have we moved to keep up with the growth in areas of servicing and all-round members support. Included in this booklet is a list of Union representatives and other professionals there to support you, the member.
Only by all of us working together can we keep what we have gained over years of hard negotiations and obtain what is rightfully ours in the future. Our labour may be the only commodity we have to sell. Let us not sell it cheaply.
Please feel free to contact me at any time with questions or concerns about the Union. This is your Union and your thoughts are what really counts.
In Solidarity,
Jim Crockett, President, UFCW Local 175
3
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
The United Food and Commercial Workers is one of the largest, most powerful and respected unions in North America. You are one of 170,000 members in Canada and 1,300,000 members in North America.
The UFCW is the result of a merger between two of the oldest and most respected unions in North America; the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America and the Retail Clerks International Union. This merger took place on June 6,1979. The new union representsworkers in nearly all aspects of Canadian life and is mirrored in the makeup of Locals 175/633.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175/633
Your local union, with over 44,000 members, is the largest UFCW local union, and the largest local union of any union in Canada. Your local is larger than the majority of unions in North America.
This Local has the expertise, financial stability and resources to provide you, the member, with the best negotiating team, the best legal assistance, and the best all around service of any union in the country.
U.F.C.W. LOCALS 175/633 EXECUTIVE BOARD LOCAL 175 EXECUTIVE BOARD:
PRESIDENT
Jim Crockett, Mississauga SECRETARY-TREASURER
Robert Murphy, St. Catharines
RECORDER
John DiNardo, Toronto
VICE-PRESIDENTS
V\fendy Absolom, Espanola Rick Alagierski, Mississauga Toni Armstrong, Orillia Larry Bain, Utopia Reg Baughan, Hamilton Michael Brennan, Scarborough Catherine Clermont, Hamilton Susan Colpitts, Oshawa Diana Crago, Thunder Bay VMer Cuculich, Harriston Jack Facette, Orleans David Fox, Napanee Michael J. Fraser, Thunder Bay Sheila Grant, Tweed Barry Haywood, Aurora Ronald Hughes, Stevensville Bill Kalka, Eagle River
Phyllis Kelly, Cobourg Bruce MacDonald, Belleville Ken McCarvil, Nepean Morag McWilliam, Frankford Delores Merrell, London Ian Miller, Deseronto Jim Montgomery, Welland Gerry Morris, Thunder Bay Frank Palmer, Hamilton Helen Parks, Kitchener Carol Partridge, London Terry Rombough, Cavan Ron Roy, Mississauga Ron Springall, Kitchener Linda Terpstra, Blenheim Garry Thayer, Port Dover Thomas Williams, Baltimore
LOCAL 633 EXECUTIVE BOARD
PRESIDENT
A G, Sherman, Innerkip SECRETARY-TREASURER
Don Morin, Garson
RECORDER
Floyd Gutcher, Thorold
VICE-PRESIDENTS
Gerald Clifford, Cumberland Beach
Bernice Dow, Downsview
Karl Goennemann, St, Catharines
What You Get For b u r Union Dues
•	Higherthan average wages and benefits. According to recent government statistics, unionized workers make, on average, 38% more in wages and benefits than non-union workers in the same industries. This fact alone makes your union dues an outstanding investment in your future.
•	Job Security. Your Union will not let you be fired or disciplined without just cause, and it is up to management to prove just cause. Every year the Union spends tens of thousands of dollars in grievance and arbitration expenses just to protect your rights. If you are unjustly discharged, your Union will spare no expense in getting you backto work. Does a non-union worker have that kind of security?
•	Grievance Procedure. Even the smallest contract rights are vitally importantto your Union. Did you deserve a promotionand not get it? Are non-bargaining unit peopledoingyour work? V\fere your bumping rights ignored? Is your sick pay late in coming? Have you been unfairly disciplinedfor a very minor mistake?The Grievance Procedure allows the Union to go to bat for you. In a non-union workplace you have no rights exceptwhat management chooses to allow you.
•	Problems with Workers’ Compensation or UIC? The Union employs experts in cutting red tape and representing you to government agencies. These services are free to you, should you ever need them. Non-union workers are usually in the dark and out inthe cold inthese matters.They can only turn to expensive lawyers for help.
•	Pensions, Dental Insurance, Sick Pay, Disability Insurance, etc. Compare your benefits package with those of non-union friends and family. Should they be unable to work because of sickness or accident, would they trade their insurance protection for yours? You bet they would!
Add up what you paid in Union Dues last year (don’t forget that they are tax-deductible). Compare that amount with what you spent on such things as hobbies, cigarettes, beer, movies, cable television or “impulse” gifts.
Robert Murphy Secretary-Treasurer
Jim Crockett President Chief Executive
John DiNardo Recorder
As the elected officers of Local 175, it is our job to ensure the smooth running and day-to-day operations of your Local Union. V\fe represent some 44,000 members across Ontario, of whom some 28,000 are retail workers. Others work in a wide variety of units, including nursing homes, funeral homes, hotels, processing plants, and manufacturing plants. This requires versatility, knowledge and tireless effort. To accomplish this job, we must be supported by a staff equally knowledgeable in their field of expertise. These include your Union Steward, Union Representatives, Benefits Representatives, a staff lawyer and communications. If we are not available or cannot answer a given question, we have the resources to find out. Remember, we are here to serve you.
NORTHWEST REGION
Mike Fraser Regional Director
Dan Onichuk
Union Representative
Bill Kalka
Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
135 N. Syndicate, Suite 202, Thunder Bay, Ont. P7C 3V3 Phone: (807) 623-4552
ERN REGION
Barry Bally
Regional Director
Warren Kennedy Luc Lacelle	Dan Lacroix
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
20 Hamilton Ave. North, Ottawa, Ont. K1Y 1B6 Phone: (613) 725*2154
SOUTHWEST REGION
Ron Springall Regional Director
Jack Colvin	Michael Duden
Union Representative	Union Representative
Glen Oram	A. G. Sherman	Garry Thayer
Union Representative Union Representative Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
124 Sydney St. South, Kitchener, Ont. N2G 3V2 Phone:(519)744-5231 (800) 265-6345
TORONTO-NIAGARA REGION
Kathie Chrysler Union Representative
Sharon Gall Union Representative
Wayne Hanley Union Representative A&P Chairman
Jay Nair
Union Representative
James Hastings Union Representative
Harry Sutton Union Representative
Frank Kelly Union Representative MFM Chairman
Theresa Suppa Union Representative
REGIONAL OFFICE:
61 International Blvd., Suite 302, Rexdale, Ont. M9W6K4 Phone: (416) 674-0606	Watts Line: (416) Area: 1-800-3874874
(519), (613), (705) Areas: 1-800-3874864
MID-NORTH REGION
Jerry Clifford Union Representative
Joe Dalgnault
Union Representative
Ian Miller	Don Morin	Ian Reilly
Union Representative Union Representative Co-ordinator,
Industrial & Service Division
REGIONAL OFFICE:
81 Mill Street, Box 150, Frankford, Ont. KOK 2C0 Phone: (613)398-6156 Watts: 1-800-267-8046
ORGANIZING TEAM
Susan Bayne
Organizer
Mary Duchesne
Organizer
John Hurley
Co-ordinator.
Organizing
John Clark
Organizer
C. W. Richardson
Organizer
TECHNICAL OPERATIONS
(416)674-0606
Patrick Hayes	Julia Noble	Sarah Shartal
Communications	Staff Lawyer	Research &
Benefits Co-ordinator
WHAT IS A UNION STEWARD?
A Union Steward is an elected front-line representative of the United Food and Commercial Workers. It is his or her duty to give you advice on your rights and to represent you to management in the first stage of the grievance procedure.
Bring any suspected violation of this agreement to the attention of the Union Steward as soon as possible, because time limits may be important in winning your grievance. A
Union Steward cannot work miracles and solve your problem on the spot, but he or she will either give you an answer or find out the answer to your problem by contacting the Union Representative.
Union Stewards are all volunteers. They receive no pay for their important work and have a lot of responsibility. Treat them with consideration, as you would any friend who tries to assist you.
Never ask your Union Steward to look into a violation of your contract rights unless you are willing to file a grievance if necessary. Their time is as important as yours. Your Steward can assist you in winning your rights under this collective agreement, but only if you are willing to see it through.
Despitethe trouble involvedin the job, being a Union Steward can be a rewarding and educational experience. If you’re not afraid to ask that your legal contract rights be respected by management and if you also enjoy helping people, talk to your Union Representative. You might make a good Union Steward.
UNION ]
FOR HIGHER
Tl(
Unions believe that colleges and universitiesshould be open to all qualified students, regardlessof their income. Educationat all levels is a social investment in the future which yields the greatest returns.
Scholarships can help. The United Food and Commercial Workers Union have three scholarship programs available to all members and their children. The InternationalUnion annually awards $80,000 to 22 applicants across North America. These are the James A. Suffridge Fund and the Earl W. Jimerson Scholarship.
UFCW Canada also awards a numberof William J. Beggs, Fred Dowling and Romeo Mattieu Scholarshipsevery yearto Canadian members and their children. These grants are worth $500 each.
UFCW Locals 175/633 award Mattie McKay and Pat Thompson Scholarships worth up to a maximum of $750 each.
Local members have been frequent scholarship winners in the past and it is hoped that this good fortune will continue. In order to compete, applications must be sent in well ahead of time.
Applications for the UFCW International Union Scholarships must be submitted by December31 of the year you plan to enter a post secondary institution.
Forthe Beggs, Dowling, Mathieu Scholarships, you must apply before September of the year you first enter college or university.
The deadline forthe Mattie McKay-Pat Thompson Scholarship is August 1 of the year you plan to enter post secondary education.
There are a limited number of scholarships available, so everyone who needs and deserves one cannot always receive one. However, you will never get one unless you apply. Call or write the UFCW, Locals 175/633, Education Committee for details.
Good Luck!
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY ACT
Most work-related disabilities can be avoided if both management and workers live up to their responsibilities under Ontario's Occupational Health and Safety Act. Here is a quick guide to the Act (Bill 70). For details, refer to the Act itself, which is found in the small green book which must be posted in every workplace.
Employer’s Duties
Among other things, the employer must:
•	Provide information, instructionand training so that the employee can work in a safe manner.
•	Acquaint the worker with any workplace hazard.
•	Appoint a competent person as supervisor.
a Co-operate with and assist the health and safety committee and representative.
•	Take every precaution reasonable for the protection of the worker. Supervisor’s Duties
In stores, the Supervisor is normally the Store Manager. He must: a Ensurethat the worker works in a safe manner and uses all the equipment, protective devices or clothing that is required.
•	Advise a worker of any potential or actual danger to health and safety. a Provide written safety instructions, where required.
a Be familiar with the Acf and regulations.
Note: Department Heads in the bargaining unit must also ensure that workers work in a safe manner, as above, but they cannot disciplineworkers who refuse, for example, to wear safety equipment. If a meat manager is unableto convince a fellow worker to wear a mesh apron when he is requiredto do so, he should simply report the situation to the Store Manager.
Workers’ Obligations
a Use all safety equipment and wear all protective clothing required by the employer.
•	Report any potentially unsafe condition or defect in safety equipment to your Supervisor.
•	Obey the Health and Safety law and all regulations and report any violations of the law or regulations to your Supervisor.
Workers may not:
•	Remove or turn off any safety device.
•	Use any equipment or work in a manner which may endanger yourself or another worker.
•	Engage in horseplay of any kind.
The Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
If you encounter an unsafe condition at work, your first obligation is to report it to your Supervisor. Once you have done that, you may refuse to work at a job or task where you have reason to believe that:
•	Any machine or equipment you are supposed to use is likely to endanger yourself or another worker, or
•	The condition of the workplace itself is hazardous.
You must promptly notify your Supervisor of your refusal. He must then investigatethe matter in your presence and that of a health and safety representative of the workers (normally the Steward or a member of the Health &Safety Committee). If the Supervisorordersyou backto work and you are still not satisfied that the job is safe, you may continueto refuse to work, providedyou have reasonable grounds to believe the condition still constitutes a hazard.
k. this point, the Inspectorfrom the Ministry of Labour must be called in. While you are waiting for him, the Supervisor can request that someone else perform the job provided that he is informed that the job was refused and the reasons for the refusal. This second worker also hasthe same right to refuse. The refusing worker may be assigned reasonable alternativework, subject to the Collective Agreement.
The decision of the Inspector is final. Although his order maybe appealed, you must returnto the job if he so orders, pendingthe outcome of such appeal.
ERS COMPENSATION
The Workers' Compensation Board (WCB) is an employer-paid insurance program that protectsworkers against lossof income due to job-related disabilities. Here are answers to the most commonly asked questions about WCB benefits:
What do Ido if I have an accident at work? All accidents, even minor ones, must be reported to management immediately. If the accident is serious enough to leave work, you must seek medical attention as soon as possible. Accidents which only requires short recovery period or simple first aid must be recorded in the first aid book, which every workplace is required by law to have.
What forms must be filled out to receive compensation?Two forms are essential i n order to receiveWCB benefits. First, the yellow “Employer's Report of Accident or Industrial Diseases” must be filled out by management if, and only if:
(a)	You consult a doctor about your work-related disability, and/or
(b)	You lose work time beyond the day of the accident
Please note that you do not have to actually lose time from work in order to initiate a WCB claim. Even if you consult a doctor and are sent back to work the next day, your employer must file their report. This is known as a “No Lost Time” claim.
The second form is a pink form called “Doctor's First Report”. There should be a supply of these at your workplace and most doctors and hospitalswill have them as well. This is filled out by your doctor at the time of your first visit for your disability. The doctor sends this form directly to the WC8.
What are WCB benefits worth? Once your claim is allowed, you will receive 90% of your net pre-accident earnings. WCB benefitsare non-taxable. Maximum insurable earnings are now $38,500.00 yearly. WCB cheques are sent every two weeks. A normal accident claim will take from four to six weeks to process before you begin receiving benefits, assuming that the two important forms are submitted right away.
How long do WCB benefits last?Most people who have workplace accidents are back to work within six weeks. Serious injuries can take months or even years to recover from. For between one year and eighteen months if you are judged to be totally disabledand the disability isconsidered temporary, the WCB will continue to pay benefits. After that, a wage loss system will begin. If you are permanently injured, the WCB can award you a very small permanent pension for the pain and suffering caused by the injury and some wage loss compensation.
If you are injured after January 2,1990, you have a right to reemployment after the injury, This right lasts for two years. Even if you have permanent limitationson your ability to work, you still have the right to return to work. There are four steps in this process,
1,	If you can do your old job without any restrictions, your employer has to offer it to you.
2,	If you could do your old job if it were modified, then that has to be done.
3.	If you can't do your old job even if it were changed, then your employer has to offer you another job.
4.	Ifyou can do another job if it were modified, then your employer is required to do this.
What if lhaveahealth problemthat iscausedby myjob but Ididn't have an accident at work? Back problems, tendonitis, carpal tunnel syndrome, Ring & Bag syndrome, etc., are just a few of the work-related disabilitiessuffered by UFCW members. Fyou feel you may be in the non-accidental work-related disability category, first consult your doctor. If he or she agrees that your problem is or is likely to have been caused by your job, a Doctor's First Report should be submitted right away. Informyour employer of your doctor's opinion and ask that the Employer's Report of Accident or Industrial Disease be submitted. Your employer cannot refuse to fill out this form. Only the WCB can decide whether or not you have a legitimate claim.
What happens if my claim is turned down by the WCB? You can appeal an adverse decision by the WCB, The Union will assist you and represent you, without charge. Do not consult a lawyer, since their services are not free. The Union employs WCB experts to help you.
Wouldn't I be better off claiming sick pay? In most cases, NO. However, if you have a non-accidentaldisability which requires you to take time off from work, consult the Union for advice.
Doesthe WCB cover part-timers? Yes. The same rulesand benefits apply, regardless of the number of hours you work per week.
What if my benefits are late or are cut off for some reason? Contact the Union office without delay. All WCB enquiries are treated in the strictest confidence.
Remember Never let managementtalkyou out of filing a WCB claim. You may regret it later, when your disability wont go away, it isiltegalfor management to interfere with your right to make a WCB claim. Ifyou have any problems or concerns, contact the Union office.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
Unemployment Insurance is not welfare. It is a system of providing partial income replacement for people who have an interruption of earnings. Both you and your employer pay weekly premiums to the Unemployment Insurance Commission and you are entitled to benefits if you meet certain eligibility requirements. You should apply for U, I, benefits if you fall into one of the following categories.
Laid off — If you are out of work due to lay-off and you have worked 20 weeks during the last 52 weeks, you are eligible for benefits. F you worked between fourteen and nineteen weeks, you may be eligible and should still make a claim. You receive no money for the first two weeks of lay-off and your benefits will continue for up to 52 weeks. Your maximum benefit period may be less than 52 weeks, depending on a number of factors.
Discharged or Quit — Same eligibility rules as for lay-off, but the two-week waiting period can be extended to eight weeks if you were fired for just cause or quit without a good reason. You may appeal an extension of your waiting period.
Sickness — You must have worked at least 20 weeks during the last 52 and your benefits will continue for a maximum of 15 weeks A doctor's report is necessary to obtain U.l. Sickness benefits.
Pregnancy—15 weeks of benefits are payable when you take your maternity leave, providedyou apply at the time of leaving. You must have worked 20 weeks in the last 52 and there is the same two week waiting period as that imposed on other claimants.
What you need to apply for U.l. benefits:
•	A Record of Employment from the company. If you have problemsobtaining it, inform your local Canada Employment and Immigration Centre (CEIC).
•	An application for benefits, obtainable at CEIC offices.
•	A doctor’s report for sickness or maternity benefits, also obtainable at CEIC offices.
If you have any questionsor problemswith U.I.C. call your local CEIC office. If your problems continue, contact the Union Office.
INDEX
M
A"
ARTICLE PAGE
Access to Plant by Representative..	6(a)	4
Arbitration......................... 8	7
Arbitrator. Sole.................... 8(a)	7
Arbitration. Notice of.............. 8(b)	7
Arbitrators. Minister to Appoint...	8(d)	8
Arbitrator to be Given Access....... 8(f)	8
Arbitrator. Parties Share Expense..	8(g)	8
Arbitrator May Not Modify........... 8(h)	8
Arbitration. Chairman for Rate
Grievances....................15(d)	20
Arbitration of Piecework Rulles.... 15(b)	19
"B"
Bargaining & Grievance Committee... 6(a)	3
Bargaining Unit Work Restricted.... 2(b)	1
Breaks to be Posted.................12(c)	16
Benefits............................18	26
Benefits Cease......................18(g)	28
Benefits. Company Ceases	Paying_____18(g)	28
Benefits. Employee May Pay..........l8(g-3)	28
Bereavement Allowance...............19	29
C"
Compulsory Union Membership........ 3(a)
Chairman Recognized................ 6(b)
Chairman Covers Plant.............. 6(c)
Committee to be Paid............... 6(d)
Changing Rates.....................15(c)
Change in Rates May Be Grieved.....15(d)
Company to Supply List of
Supervisors....................24(e)
Calendar...........................
2
4
4
5
19
20
31
48
ARTICLE PAGE
D"
Dues Deduction...................... 3(b)	2
Dues Remittance..................... 3(c)	3
Discharge Cases
Dental Plan____
Duration.......
" E"
Employee May Pay Benefit Costs......18(g-3) 28
Emergency Guarantee..................20	29
"F"
Full-time Representative Cn
Committee....................... 6(a)	3
Footwear.............................25	32
"G"
Grievance Procedure.................  7	5
Grievance. Discuss with Foreman.... 7(a)	5
Grievance. Steward May Be Present.. 7(a)	5
Grievance. Step#-!, Writing......... 7(b)	5
Grievance. Step #2, Meeting Company 7(b)	5
Grievance. Time to Arbitration...... 7(b)	6
Grievance. Time Limit Extension.... 7(b)	6
Grievance. Company or Union......... 7(d)	7
Grievance. Re: Job Posting.......... 9(f-5) 11
Grievance. Right to Require Grlevor 7(e)	7
Grievance. Decision Binding......... 7(f)	7
Group Seniority. Same Job........... 9(f-10)l2
ARTICLE PAGE
ll
H"
Hours of Work.......................12
Hours Set Out.................Schedule "C“
Holidays............................16
Holidays, Set Out...................16(a)
Holiday Pay.........................16(b)
Hourly Rates..................Schedule "A"
Hourly Increase......Schedule "A" Table 2
Holiday Pay on UIC, WI, WCBI........16(e)
15
43'
23
23
23
34
38
23
"J"
Job Evaluation.......................15(c)	20
Job Posting..........................9(f)	10
Job Posting	Bar	to	Use............9(f-4)	10
Job Posting.	Result	Grieved..........9(f-5)	11
Job Postings Limited Certain Cases..9(f-8) 11 Jury Duty............................22	30
Job Listing and Wages........Schedule "A" 35,36
M
L"
Lay-off and Recall...................10	12
Lay-off.Recall,Stagger Phase down-up 10(c) 13
Leave of Absence.....................11	14
Leave for Union Business.............11(c)	15
Leave for Full-time	Union	Rep......11(d)	15
Leave for 3 Months...................11(e)	15
Leave, while on. no	job allowed.....9(c)(7) 9
•*MM
Management Rights................... 4	3
Must be at Work Assignment..........12(c-v)16
ARTICLE PAGE
"N"
Neutralizer................Scheduled"	47
No Strike............................ 5	3
No Lockout........................... 5	3
Notify Company Names of Stewards..	.. 6(b)	4
No Discrimination for Union Activity 6(e)	5
No Discrimination Race etc............ 6(f)	5
Notice of Recall......................10(a)	13
No Guarantee of Hours.................12(b)	15
No Unauthorized Overtime........12(c-v 1)16
No Short Vteeks.......................12(d)	17
Nbn Class, Company Set Rate...........15(k)	22
New Class, Resulting 1n Bumping.......15(1)	22
Notices on Bulletin Board.............24(a)	30
Notices to Union......................24(c)	31
Notices to Company....................24(d)	31
Notice to Bargain, 120 Days...........26	32
"0"
Overtime Must be Authorized..........12(c-v1) 16
Overtime..............................13	17
Overtime Meal Allowance...............13(d)	18
OHIP..................................18(a)	26
i.p..
Pay Equity......................Schedule	"D" 47
Pension Plan - CCWIPP.................18(d)	27
Purpose............................... 1	1
Probationary Period................... 9(b)	8
Probationary Period Adjusted.......... 9(b)	8
Physician's Certificate...............11(a)	14
Pregnancy Leave.......................11(b)	14
ARTICLE PAGE
"P" continued,..
Piece Work........................... 15(b)	19
Piece Rates. None.............Schedule "A" 34
Piece Work Rules to	be Arbitrated... 15(b)	19
Physician's Explanation..............16(b-2)24
Protective Clothing	Supplied........23(b)	30
n
R"
Recognition.......................... 2(a)	1
Right to See Disciplinary File....... 6(g)	5
Right to Have Union Present.......... 6(g)	5
Regular Assignment...................9(f-10)12
Red Circle Rates.....................15(a)	19
Reporting Pay........................15(j)	22
Rotating Shifts By Agreement.........14(d)	19
"s"
Steward May Leave Job................ 6(b)	4
Seniority............................ 9	8
Seniority. Length of Employment..... 9(a)	8
Seniority. Probation................. 9(b)	8
Seniority. Probation Period Adjusted 9(b)	8
Seniority. Loss of. Wien............. 9(c)	8
Seniority May be Restored............ 9(d)	9
Seniority Lists...................... 9(e)	9
Seniority. Regular Assignment...... ,9(f-10)12
Seniority to Accrue During Lay-off.. 10(a)	13
Seniority. For Union Committee.......10(b)	13
Shifts to be Posted..................12(c)	16
Shifts...............................14	18
Shift Premium........................14(a)	18
Shift Change. Temporary..............14(c)	18
Stand by Pay.........................15(1)	22
ARTICLE PAGE
"S" continued.
Safety and Health....................23
Safety Shoes Supplied................25
Schedule "A".........................
Schedule "B".........................
Starting Rates.................Schedule
30
32
34
42
"A" 34
T
Time	Limits May Be Extended........ 7(b)
Temporary Vacancy. Defined........9(f—7(a))
Temporary Vacancy Company May
Fill...........................9(f-7(b))
Transferred Employee Returned to
Job Before More Hired............9(f-9)
Temporary Shift	Change.............14
Temporary Transfer, Convenience of
Company...........................15(f)
Temporary Transfer. Convenience of
Employee..........................15(g)
Tool Allowance......................21
"U"
Union	Membership Compulsory......... 3(a)
Union	Dues Deduction............... 3(b)
Union	Representation............... 6
Union Committee, Size................ 6(a)
Union Committee, Super Seniority_____10(b)
Union Leave of Absence...............11(c)
,	"y"
Vacations............................17
Vacations Must be Taken..............17(b)
Vacation Pay at Time and One Half. ..17(c) Vacation Pay Less Than 1200 Hours... 17(d) Vacation - Alternate Time Off........17(b)
5
11
11
12
18
20
21
29
2
2
3
3
13
15
24
26
26
26
26
ARTICLE PAGE
"W"
Warnings Off Record..................7(g)	7
Wages................................15	19
Weekly Indemnity.....................18(f) 28
Effective Date:	February 1st, 1991
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT Between
A.R. CLARKE & CO. LIMITED Toronto, Ontario
(hereinafter called the "Company") and
LOCAL 175
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS' UNION CLC, AFL-CIO
(hereinafter called the "Union")
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Agreement i s to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and i t s employees covered by this Agreement and t o provide machinery for the prompt, equitable disposition of grievances.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
(a)	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all of its employees in Toronto, save and except forepersons, supervisors, persons above the rank of foreperson or supervisor, chief engineer, consulting chemists, chief chemist, nurse, office and sales staff, (janitors and watchmen working less than 24 hours a week), and all such employees shall be covered by this Agreement.
(b)	It is recognized that forepersons, in addition to their managerial functions, may do work that Is ordinarily done by members of the Bargaining Unit, as defined in Schedule B herein.
(c)	In the event that the Company purchases the shares or assets of another company that do not principally involve leather tanning operations and which are absorbed and carried on in Toronto then the employees working in this new subsidiary or division will not be covered by this Agreement. Employees covered by this agreement win not have any rights or entitlements relating to such work.
(c)(1) However, the Company and the Union shall negotiate a separate Collective Agreement recognizing any such n&n Bargaining Unit, assuming that there are no subsisting bargaining rights that would preclude the Union.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION MEMBERSHIP AND UNION DUES
(a)	It shall be a condition of employment that any employee who is a member of the Union upon the signing of this Agreement shall remain so for as long as he is an employee under this Agreement and that any na/v employee hired into the Bargaining Unit shall become a member of the Union at most 60 working days ficm his starting date and shall remain so for as long as he is an employee under this Agreement.
(b)	The Company shall deduct form the first wages and a 11 subsequent wages due each employee, covered by this Collective Agreement, the regular union dues and initiation fee as Hem time to time indicated, to the Company, by the Union, in writing. It shall be the responsibility of the Union to advise the Company of such obligations and no employee shall lose or be refused membership in the Union for non-payment of regular dues if the Union has not specifically advised the Company of such obligations. The Union shall save the Company harmless from any costs whatsoever resulting fain any dispute as between any employee or employees and the Union as to the validity of obligations 1n respect of such regular dues.
2
(c)	The Company shall remit to the Union, by the 15th of the month following deduction, all dues and fees deducted along with a list on the form provided by the Union showing fan v\hcm deducted, S.I.N., address on first deduction and if changed, and if no deduction the reason why. This information will be provided on computer diskettes, or tape, supplied by the Union, if software is mutually compatible.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
All aspects of management shall be the exclusive prerogative of the Company, subject only to the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
It is understood and agreed that there shall be no strike, concerted work stoppage, slowdown, or other such activity by the Union or by any of its members during the term of this Agreement or while negotiations for its renewal or amendment are in progress. It is further understood and agreed that should there be any strike, concerted work stoppage, slowdown, or other such activity by any of the said members, the Union shall make and continue to make every effort to prevent or stop such action and shall condemn such action. It is understood and agreed that there shall be no "lockouts" by the Company during the term of this Agreement or while negotiations for its renewal or amendment are i n progress.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION REPRESENTATION
(a)	For the purpose of discussing and adjusting matters arising out of the interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement, and for the processing of grievances as hereinafter set out, the Company shall recognize a Shop Steward for each thirty (30)
3
active members (or majority fraction thereof) of the Union employed by the Company. One of the Stewards shall be Chairperson, and will be kept on day shift provided that, in the opinion of the Company, Chairperson being on day shift does not interfere with the efficient operation of the Plant, The Bargaining and Grievance Committee, which shall be comprised of no more than three (3) members, shall meet with representatives of the Company as necessary. A Fulltime Representative of the Union shall be a member of this Bargaining and Grievance Committee and attend all negotiating meetings, grievance meetings beginning at Step 2 of the grievance procedure contained hereinafter, and may attend any other meeting held between the Company and the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. Accredited officials of the Union shall have access to the plant premises upon reasonable notice to the Production Manager or designate.
(b)	For the purpose of processing employees’ grievances as hereinafter set out, the Company shall recognize Shop Stewards as set out herein.
The Union shall keep the Company informed, in writing and within 30 days, of any changes In the members of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, the stewards and the chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. It is understood and agreed that the first responsibility of Shop Steward is to their work for the Company and they shall not leave such work except In the performance of their duties under this Agreement, and then only in such a way as to cause the least possible loss of production and order, and they must explain the nature of his business to each Supervisor involved.
(c)	The Shop Chairperson shall carry out any duties under this agreement under the same conditions as a Shop Steward but 1n respect of all of those areas in which employees under this Agreement are employed.
4
(d)	Bargaining and Grievance Commltteepersons and Stewards shall not lose pay while carrying out their duties under this Agreement during regular working hours.
(e)	NO employee shall, in any manner, be discriminated against on the basis of union membership, union activity, or the exercise of any rights under this Agreement.
(f)	NO employee shall, in any manner, be discriminated against on the basis of race, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or marital status.
(g)	Each employee shall have the right to examine their personal disciplinary file upon submission of a written request to the Company. A representative of the Company and the Union if requested win be present during the examination of the file and I f requested by the employee, will supply copies of any documents in the said file.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
(a)	Any employee with seniority who feels they have a grievance under this Agreement shall discuss the matter with their foreperson, with a view to prompt settlement or explanation thereof. The employee’s Shop Steward may accompany that employee in such discussion if the employee so desires.
(b)	If the employee is not satisfied after the above discussion, the grievance shall be settled 1n accordance with the following procedure:
Step 1 - The grievance shall be set down 1n writing and presented to the Production Manager (or designate) within ten (10) working days of the occurrence of the issue being grieved. The Company shall answer the grievance in writing within five (5)
5
working days from receipt thereof
Step 2 - Should the employee or the Bargaining and Grievance Committee still not be satisfied, the grievance shall be referred to a meeting of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the Company. Such meeting shall be held as promptly as possible. Within eight (8) days of such meeting, the Company shall deliver its answer to the Chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, with a copy to the fulltime Union Representative.
Should the above meeting not have taken place within fifteen (15) working days of referral, then either party may proceed to arbitration.
Time limits in this Article and Article 8 may be modified or extended by mutual agreement 1n writing.
(c) Discharge Cases - I n the event that an employee with seniority 1s discharged, the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the fulltime Union Representative shall be so notified within two (2) working days where possible. A claim by an employee with seniority that such employee has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance and may be taken to arbitration if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company under Article 7, (b), Step 2, within five (5) working days of the above notification to the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and the fulltime Union Representative. Such special grievances may be settled by the board of arbitration by:
1.	confirming the Company’s action in dismissal of the employee;
2.	reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost;
6
or
3.	any other arrangement which nm be deemed just and equitable.
(d)	Matters arising out of the interpretation, application or administration of this Agreement of a general nature may be the subject of a grievance which may be initiated by either party. Such grievances shall be entered at the 2nd Step.
(e)	Either party shall have the right to require the attendance of the grlevor at any meeting held pursuant to the grievance procedure.
(f)	An agreement reached between the Management and the Bargaining and Negotiating Committee, subject to due process, is binding on all workers affected and cannot be changed by any individual.
(g)	I f an employee’s work record i s free of suspension for a twelve month period, then all prior suspensions or written notations or warnings relating to the conduct of the employee, shall be removed from the employee’s record,
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
(a)	In the event that a grievance is not satisfactorily settled under the grievance procedure, either party refer the grievance to a sole arbitrator.
(b)	The party desiring the arbitration shall notify, in writing, the other party of i t s desire to arbitrate. Such notice shall contain a 11st of at least three (3) qualified arbitrators.
(c)	The party receiving the notice shall forthwith either:
(1)	notify the first party of its acceptance of
7
one of the arbitrators listed, or
(11)	provide to the first party a list of at least
three (3) qualified arbitrators, 1rom which to
choose.
(d)	If the parties are unable to agree on an arbitrator within 30 days of the first notice, then the Minister of Labour shall be requested to appoint an Arbitrator.
(e)	The Arbitrator shall convene a hearing as promtly as possible to hear the case.
(f)	The Arbitrator shall be given access to the plant, should such access be requested by either party.
(g)	The parties shall jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Arbitrator.
(h)	The Arbitrator shall not be authorized to alter, modify, or amend any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 - SENIORITY
(a)	Subject to the provisions of this, Agreement respecting the same, an employee’s seniority shall be determined by the length of such employee’s continuous employment with the Company.
(b)	The first sixty (60) working days of an employee’s employment with the Company shall be a probationary period, after which such employee shall become an employee with seniority, dating from the day such employee commenced work. Absence of more than seven (7) days during the probationary period will be added to the period.
(c)	An employee shall lose all seniority and shall be deemed to have quit the employ of the
8
Company for any of the following reasons:
1.	voluntarily quits employment with the Company;
2.	is discharged and not reinstated through the grievance procedure;
3.	falls to respond to recall as herein provided;
4.	is absent on leave for more than three (3) months at one time except by agreement of the parties hereto;
5.	fails to return from a leave of absence as herein provided;
6.	Is not recalled to work within:
(I)	18 months for employees with 15 years or more seniority;
(II)	12 months for employees with fan 1 to 15 years’ seniority;
(III)	the period of actual seniority for employees with less than 1 year’s seniority.
7.	takes another job while on leave of absence without having received prior written permission flom the Company to do so.
8.	completes his/her entitlement for Weekly Indemnity Benefits as described in article 18(f), and does not return to work within five working days of such completion, unless he is prevented Hem so doing for reasonable cause and has notified the Company of such cause on a timely basis.
9
.	(0) Lost seniority msy be restored in whole or
in part by agreement of the parties hereto.
(e)	Lists showing the seniority of all employees under this Agreement shall be prepared and maintained by the Company and shall be open to inspection by the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. I\b/v lists shall be made up each year, shall be posted for a minimum of two weeks each year, and the Bargaining and Grievance Committee shall have a copy of each.
(f)	1. In the event new jobs are created or
permanent vacancies occur, the Company will post such new jobs or vacancies for a period of two (2) working days before new employees are hired in order to allow employees with seniority in another classification to apply. If no senior employees apply, probationary employees will be considered.
2.	If no applications are received by 10:00 A.M. on the day following the posting date, the Company may start proceedings to secure applications from outside labour sources.
3.	I n the event that two or more employees with seniority apply for a posted job, the Company shall consider the skill, ability, aptitude, work habits, and physical fitness of the applicants. Seniority shall govern only when two applicants are of equal standing in terms of these criteria, considered on an overall basis.
4.	It is agreed that successful applicants on the job bidding procedure will not be permitted to re-apply for a period of six (6) months.
10
5.	If, In the opinion of the Company, none of the applicants is qualified to perform the open job, then the Company has the right to select any other employee for the job or may hire Hem outside after first discussing the matter with the Union. If, in the opinion of the Union, the Company has not considered all of the relevant facts, then the matter may be taken up through the grievance procedure.
6.	Employees with greater seniority who are unsuccessful in bidding on such jobs under this section shall be advised why they did not qualify.
7.	(a) A temporary vacancy shall be defined as the longer of thirty (30) working days, or the period of the duration of the absence due to illness or injury of the Individual who worked that job previously, or until their termination, or by mutual agreement in writing by the parties hereto.
(b)	However, temporary vacancies occurring during the period of posting may be filled by the Company in such manner as it may in its discretion determine.
8.	Only the first vacancy shall be posted. Vacancies arising out of the original posting will be filled by the Company. However, an employee may apply i n writing for the second vacancy created not later than three (3) days after such pos tion becomes vacant and sections 3 to 7 above w i 11 apply. If such emp oyee i s refused the second vacancy, that employee shall be advised
11
of the reason for the refusal.
9.	If an employee is transferred to
another department due to lack of work, that employee may return to their former job before a new employee is hired for that job.
10.	I n the event that more than one
employee i s doing the same job, as a regular assignment, then the senior employee shall not be transferred from that job, provided such employee has equal skill and ability compared t o any junior employee doing that same job.
Regular Asgianmant. ~ For the purposes of this agreement regular assignment(s) shall mean having been assigned to that job or operation on a regular basis for the preceding six (6) months.
Temporary transfers and layoffs will not be included in the calculation of the six months.
(g)	The Company shall distribute a form once each six months on which employees make a written request to train on a specific job. The Company shall provide the employee, as soon as possible, with an opportunity to train on the requested job. The Company in its discretion has the right to terminate the training period, if the employee falls to demonstrate the required skills.
CD Success in a training program does not entitle the employee to any rights of job selection, other than provided for in Article 10(a) or 9(f).
ARTICLE 10 - LAYOFF AND RECALL
(a)	When it is necessary to lay off employees,
12
or to recall employees who have been laid off, the employees to be laid off or recalled shall be selected on the basis of seniority providing the senior employee has previously qualified on the job in the plant or can perform the work available satisfactorily without training. I n the event that all jobs that require no training are filled by senior employees and further layoffs are required which involve skilled jobs, a senior employee rca/ have only one opportunity to supplant any junior employee, providing such employee is able to attain the required skills of that job within a ten (10) day training period. As between two employees who are fully competent to perform the work available seniority shall govern the selection. The rate paid for the job chosen by the employee exercising this right to supplant shall be the rate of the job, as listed in Schedule A, subject to the provisions of Article 15(a). Notice of layoff or compensation in lieu thereof shall be in compliance with Government Legislation. Notice of recall shall be sent to the employee’s last recorded address and such employee shall have a maximum of five (5) working days in which to report for work. Seniority shall accrue during layoff.
(b)	Each member of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee and Stewards, will be retained in employment without regard to seniority so long as there is work available that they are competent and willing to perform. Such work shall not be higher rated than their regular work except by mutual agreement of the parties hereto. Should an employee cease to be a member of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee or a Steward while a layoff is in effect, such employee shall be dealt with under the normal layoff and recall procedures when the next layoff occurs.
(c)	During periods of plant shutdown, when there is a staggered phase-down and phase-up of work, rights as described in clauses (a) and (b)
13
above will not apply to supplant employees who are working on their regular assignments during these phase-down and phase-up periods. The schedule and duration of a plant shutdown will be posted by the Company, after discussion with the Union. (By way of example:	the first department out is the first
department back and so on, i n sequence.)
(d)	The Union Chairperson or designate shall be present when an employee is advised of lay-off pursuant to Article 10(a). If the advice of layoff is provided in writing by mail, the Chairperson shall receive a copy of the advice on the day it is mailed.
(i) The Company shall provide the Union office with a list of the names of employees laid off within fifteen (15) working days of the date of lay-off.
ARTICLE 11 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
(a)	An employee with seniority will be granted a leave of absence without pay upon presentation of a certificate of a physician attesting to illness or other disability which prevents such employee fan performing their regular duties. V\fen an employee is able to perform their regular duties such employee shall so advise the Company and shall report for work within seven (7) days of the time such employee is able to perform their regular duties or such employee shall lose all rights under this Agreement.
(b)	A female employee who becomes pregnant will be granted a leave of absence 1n accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the Ontario Women’s Equal Employment Opportunity Act.
If she reports for work within two (2) months and seven (7) days from the date of delivery, she shall be returned to her former job or its nearest equivalent available. If she does not so report,
14
she shall lose all rights under this Agreement.
(c)	Ch request fom the Union, leave of absence without pay will be granted for official duties with the Union. Such leaves shall not exceed one (1) week continuous (except in the case of the International Convention) or three (3) weeks accumulative per employee in one (1) year, shall not apply to more than three (3) employees at any one time, and shall not apply to more than two (2) members of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee or the Local Executive at any one time.
(d)	Cn request from the Union, the Company shall grant leave of absence without pay to an employee for a period not exceeding such employee’s first time of office, but not longer than one year for full-time service with the Union, provided that the number of employees who, at any one time, shall be granted such leave, shall be mutually agreed.
(e)	The Company may grant leave of absence without pay not exceeding three (3) months for reasons other than as set out herein. Such leaves shall not be refused unreasonably if such request Is made in writing explaining the need for leave and is submitted a reasonable period prior to the required departure and specifies the date of return. Leave of absence must be approved in writing by the Company.
(f)	Seniority shall accrue during the foregoing leaves of absence.
ARTICLE 12 - HOURS OF WDRK
(a)	The standard work week shall consist of forty (40) hours worked on Monday to Friday inclusive. The standard work day shall be eight (8) hours.
(b)	The foregoing constitutes no guarantee by
15
the Company to any employee of a specific number of hours of work, either per day or per week.
(c)	A schedule of the starting and stopping times of each shift, including the times of break, lunch, and wash-up for each department is listed in Schedule C herein, based on the following:
(1) The Company will allow each employee who wishes one break period of ten (10) minutes during each half of a standard work day.
The lunch period shall be thirty minutes, and shall be unpaid, except for continuous shift workers (i.e. those that work in departments that work continuously for 24 hours) or those working as colour drum operators who shall be entitled to a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period.
(111) Employees will not be allowed a wash up
period before the end of the shift, unless specifically provided for in Schedule "C".
(1v) Employees will not cease to work or leave their departments prior to the times posted by the Company unless otherwise instructed by their Foreperson
(v) Employees must be at their work
assignments ready to commence work at the times posted by the Company, unless otherwise instructed by their Foreperson.
(v1) No employee will be allowed to work unauthorized or unpaid overtime in addition to their regular hours.
(v11) Each employee shall punch their own
Time Card only. Punching Time Cards other than an employee's own may be cause for
16
dismissal.
(d)	The Company agrees that it w i 11 not call for a short work week (e.g.	3 day week, or 4 day
week) unless any one of the following occurs:
1.	a major breakdown of equipment which interrupts production for more than eight (8) hours:
2.	layoffs have taken place to the point where the company seniority list contains less than one hundred seventy three (173) names of actively employed individuals, for a period of five consecutive working days. Actively employed means any employee with seniority who has not been laid off, suspended or 1s not absent on Workers Compensation or Sickness Benefit or on voluntary leave;
3.	after discussion with the Bargaining and Grievance Committee, and by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company;
4.	in case of force majeure
I n the event that plant wide shutdown of 4 or more consecutive working days is required because of production levels, holidays and vacation period, or plant overhauls, the above clause will not apply during that period.
ARTICLE 13 - OVERTIME
(a)	V\fork performed other than as set out 1n Article 12 shall be paid for at one and one-half times the employee’s regular rate. However, work performed on Sundays or on holidays listed in Article 16 shall be paid for at twice the employee’s regular rate.
17
(b)	The Company undertakes to assign overtime work as equitably as circumstances permit among those employees generally performing the work.
(c)	Upon reasonable request, in writing, by the Union, the Company shall provide a list of overtime hours worked by employees.
(d)	I n the event that the Company requires an employee to work overtime for a consecutive period of four (4) or more hours without having notified that employee the previous day, the, Company will pay that employee a meal allowance of five (5) dollars.
ARTICLE 14 - SHIFTS
(a)	Unless otherwise arranged, a shift will be considered as worked on the day it commences. A shift commencing before 12 noon shall be deemed to be a first shift. A shift commencing after 12 noon but before 8 P.M. shall be deemed to be a second shift. A shift commencing after 8 P.M. but before 4 A.M. shall be deemed to be a third shift. V\hen an employee works on a second shift, he shall receive a premium of forty (40) cents per hour.
V\hsn an employee works on a rotating third shift, he shall receive a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour. V\hen an employee works on a permanent third shift, he shall receive a premium of $1.00 per hour. Such premium shall not be subject to overtime premium.
(b)	Third shift premium will be paid to employees starting the day shift prior to 6:00 A.M. The premium will be paid from the start of the shift until 6:00 A.M. only.
(c)	I n the event that the Company requests an employee to temporarily change shift, such employee will be notified of such transfer twenty-four hours prior to the commencement of the shift to which the
18
employee is to be transferred. Failure to provide such notice shall result in the payment at time and one half the employees regular hourly rate for all hours worked on the first day of such transfer.
(d)	As long as there i s unanimous agreement among those doing the rotating shift work, a fixed schedule can be established, subject to the approval of the Company.
ARTICLE 15 - WAGES
(a)	Schedule A, attached to and forming part of this Agreement, sets out the basis of wage administration effective with the signing of this Agreement.
Any employee who has been paid at a higher rate than that shown in Schedule A shall be "red circled” for the term of such employee’s employment with the Company. The employee’s red circled rate shall terminate if that employee has been laid off for a period of more than six continuous months, even if he subsequently returns to work pursuant to Article 10(a). Any employee replacing the red circled employee shall receive the Schedule A rate.
(b)	I n t he event that the Company wishes to introduce a piece work rate, such introduction shall not take place until the Company and the Union have agreed on a set of time study rules to govern the establishment of such piece work rates.
If an agreement on such rules cannot be reached, either party rcey submit the matter of Time Study Rules to Arbitration, pursuant to Article 8.
(c)	Notwithstanding the forgoing, it is recognized that an appreciable change i n methods, equipment, material or working conditions will justify an adjustment in hourly or piecework rates, and the degree of such change will be a major factor in determining the extent of such
19
adjustment. To ascertain the extent of such adjustment the job will be evaluated by the job evaluation system described in Schedule D herein.
I f any such adjustment is made during the life of the Agreement, the employees affected shall accept the new rates for at least fifteen (15) working days. If, at the end of such time, any employees affected are dissatisfied, the Steward or Stewards concerned may take the matter up with the appropriate supervisors and, failing prompt satisfaction, the matter may be processed as a grievance as follows:
(d)	Within fifteen (15) working days after the end of the fifteen (15) day period referred to above, the Bargaining and Grievance Committee shall request the Production Manager to arrange a meeting to review the question stating its reasons for disagreement and, within five (5) working days after such meeting, the Company shall deliver its final answer. If the Bargaining and Grievance Committee is not satisfied with the Company’s answer, it may, within ten (10) working days from the receipt of such answer, process the matter to arbitration as set out in Article 8 with the added proviso that the Arbitrator shall be a person experienced in matters of this kind.
(e)	Rate adjustments made as a result of the foregoing procedure shall take effect from the beginning of the first fifteen (15) day period above unless otherwise agreed by the parties or directed by the Arbitrator.
(f)	An employee who, for the convenience of the Company, is temporarily transferred to work for which the rate of pay is different from that in effect for such employee’s regular work shall be paid, while so employed, as follows:
1. If the rate of pay for the work to which the employee i s transferred i s less than
20
the employee’s regu ar pay, such employee shall receive their cwn higher rate of pay.
2.	l-ffhe rate of pay for the work to which
such employee is transferred is higher than the employee’s regular pay, such employee shall receive the higher rate of pay for the work to which such employee 1s temporarily transferred, provided that the employee displays efficiency, skill or ability equal to that of the employees on the work to which such employee 1s transferred.
(g)	An employee who, for the convenience and benefit of the employee, i s t emporarily transferred to other work instead of being laid off due to lack of work, breakdown of machinery or other like cause shall be paid, while so employed, as follows:
1.	If the rate of pay for the work to which such employee is transferred is less than the employee’s regular pay, such employee shall receive the lower rate paid for the work to which such employee I s transfer red.
2.	If the rate of pay for the work to which such employee is transferred, is higher than the employee’s regular pay, such employee shall receive the higher rate of pay for the work to which such employee 1s temporarily transferred, provided that the employee displays efficiency, skill or ability equal to that of the employees on the work to which such employee is transferred.
(h)	Nothw1thstand1ng (f) and (g) above, an employee shall be paid their regular rate for the balance of the shift on which this temporary
21
transfer takes place.
(i)	Should breakdown, shortage of material or other cause of a temporary nature make it necessary for an employee to "stand by", such employee may be assigned other work but shall be paid at their regular rate for the remainder of their shift or for a maximum of four (4) hours, whichever shall first occur.
(J) I n t he event an employee reports for work on their regular shift without previously having been told not to report, such employee shall receive at least four (4) hours' pay at their regular rate, or such employee m3y be required to perform four (4) hours' work at any job such employee is able to do, except in circumstances beyond the control of the Company, such as breakdown of major machinery, fire and power failure.
(k)	The Company will set the rates for new classifications established during the lifetime of this Agreement provided that, after a trial period of fifteen (15) working days, the rate may be subject to the special grievance procedure as set out above. The existing rate structure shall be a major factor in determining such rates.
(l)	If, as a result of such new classification, an employee would receive a reduction i n rate, such employee will have the right to be transferred to any other job in the plant providing such employee has the competence required to perform the job, and further providing that such employee has more seniority than the worker "bumped". The Company shall allow a reasonable training period if such Is required.
Until such time as the worker is transferred to another job carrying the same rate of pay, such employee shall continue to receive their old rate. Such employee shall exercise their right to be so
22
transferred within four (4) months, after which time such employee shall forfeit such right and shall accept the rate set for the new classification.
(m)	The Union win co-operate in the elimination of waste, inefficient production, and poor workmanship.
ARTICLE 16 - HOLIDAYS
(a)	The Company recognizes the following holidays: New Year’s Day, Greek Catholic and Orthodox Christmas Day, Good Friday, May 24th (to be celebrated on the nearest Monday preceding when it does not fall on a Monday), Dominion Day, Civic Holiday (first Monday in August), Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and Employee’s Birthday. Each of the above holidays shall be observed on the day on which it falls unless otherwise declared by the appropriate government authority. However, for the Employee’s Birthday holiday, if it falls on a normal work day, the employee may elect either to take that day at regular rates and receive normal holiday pay in addition thereto. The Company also recognizes that for December 24th and December 31st, eight (8) hours will be paid for only i f five (5) hours are actually worked on each day. The Union recognizes that full co-operation will be required i n implementation. For other holidays, section (d) below will apply.
(b)	All employees will be paid for the above holidays at their regular hourly rate or at eight times their average hourly earnings during the preceding week, as the case may be. I n order to qualify for payment an employee must
1. have acquired seniority as of the date of the day of observance of the holiday;
2. work the last scheduled work day prior to and the first scheduled work day after the observance of the holiday, save that an employee absent through sickness who provides the Company on the day of their return with an explanation of the illness, in writing, from a licenced physician or who has been granted permission by the Production Manager or designate to be absent on one or both of the above mentioned days only. An employee does not qualify for the above holidays if such employee has been laid off for a lack of work more than seven days prior to the observance of the holiday.
(c)	Regular part-time workers will be paid one-half day for such holidays, subject to the above provisions.
(d)	Any employee required by the Company to work on one of the above listed holidays and who does work win be paid the rate of double time for all hours worked, in addition to their holiday pay.
(e)	If, a statutory holiday falls during the employee’s claim period for WCB, UIC, or Weekly Indemnity, the Company w i 11 pay only the difference between the holiday pay and the benefit payment payable for that day to such employee. In no way shall an employee be able to "pyramid” benefits.
ARTICLE 17 - VACATIONS
(a)	Each employee with seniority shall have a yearly vacation with pay based on their service as at June 30th of that year, according to the following formula:
The first and second weeks of vacation shall be in accordance with the Ontario Employment Standards Act or the following, whichever is
24
greater.
0	to 6 months service - Entitlement 0 weeks 4% of Gross Earnings.
6 months to 1 year service - Entitlement 1 week 4% of Gross Earnings or 40 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
1	year to 4 years service - Entitlement 2 weeks 4* of Gross Earnings or 80 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever i s greater.
4 years to 13 years service - Entitlement 3 weeks 6* of Gross Earnings or 120 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
13 years to 21 years service - Entitlement 4 weeks 8% of Gross Earnings or 160 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
21 years to 30 years service - Entitlement 5 weeks 10* of Gross Earnings or 200 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever is greater.
30 years or more service - Entitlement 6 weeks 12* of Gross Earn ngs or 240 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever i s greater.
After 40 years of service - Entitlement 7 weeks 14* of Gross Earn ngs or 280 times Regular Hourly Rate whichever i s greater.
For the purpose of this clause gross earnings shall mean the gross earnings of an employee Hem July 1st the previous year to June 30th of the year in which the vacations apply, including but not restricted to public holiday pay and previous vacation pay. For piece workers, regular hourly rate shall be their average piece work earnings for the one year prior to June 30th.
25
(b)	Such vacations shall be taken in the calendar year in which they apply, and so as to cause the least possible interference with operations. Vacations must be exercised i n the year they are due. Anyone asked by the Company to work during vacation periods shall be entitled to equivalent alternate time off without pay.
(c)	If the Company recalls an employee to work from their vacation, such employee shall be paid time and one-half in addition to their vacation pay.
(d)	If an employee works less than 1200 regular hours during the twelve months preceding June 30, then his/her vacation pay will not be the greater of the calculations described in (a) above, but will be calculated as a percentage of his/her gross earnings for the hours actually worked during the twelve months.
ARTICLE 18 - BENEFITS
(a)	The Company shall pay the full premium for full-time eligible employees, commencing the beginning of the month following the month in which that employee acquires seniority, for life insurance, weekly indemnity, major medical, prescription drug, and Ontario Health Insurance plans,
(1)	In the event that the Government of Ontario reinstitutes an individual payment system for universal health insurance, such as O.H.I.P. was, then the Company shall pay such premium on behalf of each employee.
(b)	It is agreed that any and all premium rebates to employees required by legislation on welfare matters will be applied directly towards the cost of the total welfare coverage.
26
(c)	Dental Plan - The Company agrees to sign the participation agreement with Regime de solns dental res des membres des TUAC du Quebec and to remit for each Bargaining Unit employee enrolled, effective July 1st, 1990, fourteen cents (.14) per hour worked, up to a maximum of 40 hours per week as defined below. (Should the Trustees of the Regime de Solns dental res des members des TUAC du Quebec request it the Company will increase the fourteen cents (.14) per hour set out herein to fifteen cents (.15) per hour.)
(d)	Pension Plan - The Company agrees to sign the participation agreement with the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan and remit, effective February 1st, 1991 nineteen cents (.19) per hour for each Bargaining Unit employee enrolled for all hours worked, to a maximum of 40 hours per week, as defined below.
(e)	In regard to the Dental Plan and the Pension Plan above:
(1)	The Company will remit the name, address, SIN and other data that may be required for proper recording and administration of the plans.
(2)	The Company’s only other administrative responsibility in the above plans is to Initially enroll the employees and to give out claim forms. The Company will not be responsible i n any way for the management of these funds, or for the payment of any benefits relating to the Dental Plan or Pension Plan.
(3)	Hours worked shall include regular hours, overtime hours, vacation hours, statutory holidays, bereavement pay, or any other paid hours provided for in the
27
Collective Agreement.
(4)	The Company shall remit such monies to the plan trustees by the 23rd of the month following the hours worked.
(f)	The payments under the Weekly Indemnity Plan shall be:
$300.00 per week Length of Coverage:
May 1st, 1990 (52) weeks including U.I.C. coverage 3rd - 17th week
(1) After a claim of full duration, eligibility is lost for further coverage for a recurrence of the same injury or illness until the employee has returned and worked for a minimum period of sixty (60) working days.
(g)	The Company shall cease to pay all benefit premiums and benefit coverage shall cease:
(1)	for any employee laid off pursuant to Article 10(a), after thirteen (13) weeks Horn the date of layoff.
(2)	for any employee on leave of absence, after the first day of the month following commencement of leave.
(3)	Unless the employee affected by paragraphs (1) and (1 i) pays to the Company, in advance, prior to the first day of the month of coverage being purchased, the full monthly premium, as paid by the Company, for coverage of supplementary health care and life insurance benefits only.
28
ARTICLE 19 - BEREAVEMENT ALLOWANCE
I n t he event of death i n the immediate family (spouse, father, mother, child, sister, brother, grandparent or parent-in-law) of an employee with seniority, such employee shall be granted, upon notification, up to three (3) successive regular working days of absence without loss of pay, including the day of the funeral. Payment will be based on the regular scheduled hours of work in t he plant up to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day at the employee’s regular day rate.
ARTICLE 20 - EMERGENCY GUARANTEE
I f a maintenance employee has clocked out and left the premises, and is recalled to perform emergency work, such employee shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at one and one-half times their regular rate. The employee will be allowed to go home when the emergency job i s finished and checked over.
ARTICLE 21 - TOOL ALLOWANCE
(a)	The following employees will be granted a tool allowance of up to $100.00 in any one calendar year for the replacement of tools. Payment will be issued promptly upon submission of receipts and a written description of the tools purchased.
1.	D. Campbell	5.	W.	Morrison
2.	H.L. Hou	6.	E.	Onoufrlou
3.	L. McRae	7.	J.	Rounls
4.	K. Morocz
(b)	The employees listed in (a) above will normally do production work although they may be called upon fiom time to time, based on their qualifications, to do maintenance or repair work.
29
ARTICLE 22 - JURY DUTY
I n the event that an employee is precluded from working their regular shift or shifts due to being called for and reporting for jury duty, the Company agrees to make up the difference in pay between the amount received for jury duty and the amount the employee would have received for working their regular shift or shifts. If the employee i s not chosen, such employee must report back to work within two (2) hours. Oh being chosen for jury duty, the employee shall immediately notify the Company.
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
(a)	The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment.
(b)	Protective clothing and devices deemed necessary by the Company, and as required by legislation, to protect employees from injuries shall be supplied by the Company. Such protective clothing and devices must be worn and utilized by the employee as instructed, at all times, as necessary.
(c)	If the Company introduces a chemical, not previously used, the Joint Safety and Health Committee will determine it’s proper classification within the chemical group listing supplied by I.A.P.A. The Committee will also ensure that the precautions noted under the chemical classifications are adhered to in all respects.
ARTICLE 24 - NOTICES
(a)	The Company agrees that notices concerning Union activities may be posted in the plant on the bulletin board provided by the Company, subject to the following conditions:
30
1.	Such notices shall receive the stamped approval of the Company prior to posting.
2.	No change shall be made In any such notice, either by the Company or by the Union, after it has received the stamped approval of the Company.
3.	No notice shall be posted except on the bulletin board as provided.
(b)	The Union agrees that It will not distribute or post or cause to be permitted to be distributed or posted on the property of the Company, for or on its behalf, any pamphlets, advertising or political matter, notices or any other kind of literature except with the written permission of the Company.
(c)	All notices and letters sent to the Union shall be addressed to the Fulltime Representative,
61 International Blvd., Suite 30?, Rexdale, Ontario M9W 6K4 with a copy to the chairperson of the Bargaining and Grievance Committee. The Union shall advise the Company of any Changes in this address.
(d)	All notices and letters sent to the Company shall be addressed to The President, A.R. Clarke & Co. Limited, 633 Eastern Ave., Toronto, Ontario, M4M 1E5.
(e)	The Company shall provide the Union, in writing, the names and titles of senior supervisory personnel.
(f)	The Company shall notify the Union Chairperson of any appreciable change of methods, equipment, material or working conditions.
31
ARTICLE 25 - FOOTWEAR
The Company will supply CSA approved safety shoes or boots on the basis of one pair per employee per year to be issued on or before December 1. In the case of rubber boots, these will be replaced when necessary, only upon the return of the used pair. N^/ employees will be required to provide their own first pair of safety boots. Such safety footwear must be worn by the employee at all times while at work.
ARTICLE 26 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
(a)	Unless changed by mutual consent, the terms of this Agreement shall continue 1n effect until the 31st day of January, 1992 and shall continue automatically from year to year thereafter, unless either party notifies the other In writing, not more than one hundred twenty (120) days and not less than thirty (30) days immediately prior to the expiration date, that it desires to amend or terminate the Agreement.
(b)	The parties shall agree upon a date, to
begin negotiation, within fifteen (15) days following notification for amendment as provided hereinbefore.	1
(c)	If, pursuant to such negotiations, an Agreement is not reached on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement, or the making of a new Agreement prior to the current expiry date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until a new Agreement is signed between the parties, or until conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Ontario Labour Relations Act have been completed, whichever date should first occur.
32
Signed this 20th day of March 1991.
For the Union;
Ian E. Reilly,
Co-ordinator & Industrial & Service Division -
—- *
HarveyTrood	Masood Khan
/
Nick Kolevsk

Business Representative
33
SCHEDULE "A” WAGE ADMINISTRATION
Hourly Rate
The basic hourly structure is shown in Table 1. These rates include the increases effective February 1st, 1991 for employees on the payroll as of the date of ratification. Employees receiving rates higher than those shown for their work will continue to receive the higher rates so long as they do the same work and the work remains hourly rated. Such higher rates w i 11 include the increase effective February 1st, 1991.
Piece Work
The increase effective February 1st, 1991 will be added to the piece work earnings according to Table 2 on a pay period basis. The Company will make changes to piece work rates by application of Article 16 (c). As of signing of Agreement there are no piece work rates in plant.
Starting Rates
Starting rates shall not be more than 10% below established rates at the discretion of the Company for one month. Rates shall be calculated to the nearest cent.
Pay Equity
The Company has purchased the "Neutralizer" plan and has, with the Union, established a Pay Equity Committee, which has initiated a Pay Equity Program.
34
SCHEDULE "A" TABLE 1
Effective Dates Feb. 1 1991
Watchmen..........
Category - Job Examples A 11 light general duties including Feeding and Take Off of all finishing, spray, RCM, Ironing, DRM, Measuring Equipment, also Bundling, Gauging, Split Trimmers, Flniflex, Fulton County......................
Sample Work; Spray and RCM Operators, Swabbing and Oiling Operators...................
Brushing Machine, Feed and Take Off; Box Brusher; Kiln Helpers, Truckers, Washing Machine; Blue Sorting Helper, Staking, Stick K1 ln,Toggl1ng, Spot Buffing, Plating, Setting Out.....
Fork Lift Truckers; Floor Workers, Hide House and Beam House; Grease Operators,
Balers.....
Paste Setters-Strlppers, Embossing Machine Feeders and Vacuum Dryer
Operators...................
$11.29
$12.42
$12.47
$12.74
$12.82
$12.95
$12.95
35
Wringers...
50" and 60"
Buffers
Blue Split Trimmers and Sorters (Conveyor 1 ne). ...
Final Sorters; Head Setters; Shavers; Embossing Machine Operators..................
Beam House Operator........
Class A Finish Mixer.......
Tan Drum Operators.........
Colour Drum Operators......
Whole Hide Fleshing and hooking....................
Lime Pulling, Pick up, Blue Sorter, Splitter, Lead Preparation................
Effective Dates Feb. 1 1991
$12.96
$13.01
$13.10
$13.13
$13.18
$13.63
$13.68
$13.68
$13.68
36
Maintenance
Helper..................... $12.74
UnUcenced Tradesperson....	$13.23
Licenced Tradesperson with trade school certificates of 120 hours or more of
instruction............. $14.93
^Licenced Tradesperson with two
licences used In the course of
employment................. $16.08
*Licenced Tradesperson with three
or more licences used in the
course of employment.......	$18.08
^Licence Deflation
A qualification issued by the Ontario Ministry of Universities & Colleges upon successful completion of a minimum 120 hours of instruction.
37
SCHEDULE "A" TABLE 2
HOURLY RATE INCREASES
(a)	The increase of fifty cents (.50) per hour is shown in Table 1, and 1s retroactive to February 1st, 1991 including application to all Red Circle Rates.
(b)	The Company agrees to contribute one cent (.01)
per hour, for all hours worked by bargaining unit employees, to the "United Food & Commercial Workers Education and Training Fund."	In
determining hours worked and date of remittance the terms set out herein before in Article 18, (c) and (e) shall apply.
The remittance shall be made payable to "U.F.C.W. Local 175, Education and Training Fund" and shall be mailed to the Local Union Secretary-Treasurer at the address set out herein before in Article 24 as may be amended from time to time.
38
Or-Tj-vncgooo>foo)T-oJoooo h-N'tf'0)cncvjr)T-r-oaio) CSJ O) CO lO Tf f— CO CO lO
SCHEDULE "A" TABLE 3
RED CIRCLED RATES
These Rates include fifty cents (.50) effective February 1st, 1991
EMP # EMPLOYEE NAME JOB DESCRIPTION
RED CIRCLED SCHED "A" RATE	RATE
William Anning Zaim Asimofski Ha Chay Bach El lie Besser Adolfo Cabral
Bundling
Presort/Lead Hand Shaver Take-Off Wr tiger Crew
Donald Campbell	Mechanic
George Cavalaris	Plating
Joe Chodelka	Plating
Kenneth Clarke	Flesher
Bea Denis	Drm/Op
Nikolaos Dimitriou Head Setter Anilo Dolce	Fork Lift Op
Joseph Ellul	Receiver
14.50 13.83
13.50 13.18
13.62 15.08
12.78
12.78 16.25
12.62 13.20 14.35 17.65
12.42
13.68
13.10
12.42 12.95 13.23
12.74
12.74
13.68 12.47
13.10 12.82
13.68
o
CO
-tfc
o
157
28
75
420
96
93
41
91
360
611
150
831
616
67
30
318
432
64
103
279
Chris Evangelou Vittorino Finos Fred Fostyk Tom Fragos Risto Gagovski Giuseppe Gregorino Vasilj Hladun Risto Karlovski Angelos Koukoul is Stanley Kuliczkowski Dennis Lee Carlisle Maynard Kalman Morocz
V\teyne Morrison Bosko Novakovic Elias Onoufriou Nick Ouzounis Nicola Parente Frank Pezdir Christine Popovski
Shaver Setting Hide Operator Plating Wringer Crew
Split Feeder Splitting Haint.
RCM Op RCH/Op
Setting
Setting
Lime Puller
Staking Mach
Maintenance
Electrician
Wringer Crew
Mechanic
Plating
Truck Op
Shaver
Season i ng/Take-off
14.85
13.34
14.09
12.78
13.62 14.59 15.75
12.74
12.74
13.74
13.74
17.25
13.74
15.08
16.08
13.62 15.13
12.78
14.25
13.75 12.47
13.10
12.74 12.82
12.74
12.95
13.68
13.23
12.47
12.47
12.74
12.74
13.68
12.74
14.93
14.93
12.95
13.23
12.74
13.68
13.10 12.42
9	Chris Rassos	Hooker	16.25
48	Domenico Ravaglia	Splitter	15.48
355	Panagiotls
Sapani di s	Season/Op	13.18
169	Vincenzo Savino	Head Setter	13.20
554	Maria Theodoridis	Split Trimmer	12.92
136	Ernest Thorne	Blue Preparation	13.75
354	Tsane Tsonevskl	Oil Mach./Op	12.74
622	Allan M. Tyrrell	Take-Off	12.74
10	Andrija Vezilj	Flesher	16.25
267	Richard Williams	Buffing Mach/Take off 12.83
13.68
13.68
12.47 13.10
12.42
13.68
12.47 12.44
13.68
12.42
SCHEDULE "B"
The following staff are covered by Article 2(b),
and are permitted to perform the work described
below, based on the maximum hours per day.
3 hrs. Kalco Kalcovskl:	checking leather, slot
test; trimming, moving of skids, splitting, and shaving; and general maintenance, plant improvements and cleaning.
3 hrs. James Ho; trimming, sorting, bundling,
packing, testing, checking leather; feeding or take off the measuring machine; fork lift operator, shipping, receiving.
3 hrs. Otto Beussow:	moving tables of leather
with electric truck; moving wet leather/horses to and from drying areas, checking, sorting and trimming leather; sample drying, testing machinery & process, start/stop machinery.
3 hrs. Bobby Patel:	moving leather with electric
truck; may operate, feed, or take off from any finishing equipment; colour mixer and matcher.
3 hrs. Richard Dzlemianko - move leather with electric truck, colour mixing. May operate, feed, or take off from any finishing equipment.
8 hrs. Louis Cabral - sample finishing, colour
mixing, may operate, feed, or take off fern any finishing equipment.
8 hrs. S1mm1e Wong - colour matching, sample spraying, lab testing, may operate any finishing equipment.
42
8 hrs. Therold Lue - maintenance or repairs of any nature.
2 hrs. Harvey Wxxi - forklift driving; shipping and receiving; maintenance and repairs of any nature.
8 hrs. Charles Behiok - dye matching, colour drum operating.
8 hrs. Tcmrry Skarjak - dye matching, colour drum operating.
8 hrs. German Alabaszowskl - watchman.
4 hrs. Jim Ruddell - shipping, receiving, forklift operating.
1.	The parties agree that the staff may perform bargaining unit work for the purpose of a) instruction, b) introduction and/or testing of na/v procedures or equipment, c) in the case of an emergency, or d) when no bargaining unit employee is available who has the skills required for the job.
2.	Staff will be permitted to do bargaining unit work other than described above by mutual consent of the Union and Company, both parties acting reasonably.
43
SCHEDULE "C"
HOURS OF WORK	"
SHIFT	1st	2nd VUftSH SHIFT
DEPARTMENT_____________________BEGINS BREAK LUNCH BREAK	UP________ENDS
FINISHING
PLATING
PASTING & VACUUM DRYING TOGGLING & STAKING BUFFING (day)
FINAL SORT BLUE SORT SPLITTING/SHAVING BELT TRIMMING FLESHING CREW LIME OPERATORS PICK-UP (5)
PASTING & VACUUM (after noon) PASTING (single shift) PLATING (afternoon)
BUFFING (afternoon) FINISHING (afternoon)
7:00
7:00
7:00
7:00
11:30
3:30
2:00
3:20
3:20
3:10
15
15
15
11:30
11:30
12:00
I
I
12:00
I
I
4:00
7:30
6:30
7:30
7:30
7:30
3:20
3:20
3: 15
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
3: 15
I
I
7:45
11:45
10:15
11:40
11:40
11:20
3:30
3:30
3: 30 (
I
I
I
I
I
I
t
I
I
I
3:30
I
I
8:00
12:00
10:30
11:50
11:50
11:30
■tk
DEPARTMENT
SHIFT	1st	2nd	WASH
BEGINS BREAK LUNCH BREAK___________________UP
BUFFING (midnight) LIME PULLERS TANNERY FORKLIFT WRINGER CREW TANNERY OPERATORS COLOUR OPERATORS LOAD PREPARATION SETTING MAINTENANCE
separate schedule 1:30	3:30	6:00
4:00	6:00	9:00
4:00	6:00	9:00
24 hr. schedule separate schedule 7:00	9:15	12:00
6:00	9:00	12:00
7:00	10:00	12:00
8:00
10:00
11:00
2:00
2:00
2:20
9:4$
12:15 12:1$
3:20
2:15
3: 20
SHIFT
ENDS
10:00
12:30
12:30
3:30
2:30
3:30
1.	The times listed above relate specifically to Article 12(a) and (c).
2.	This schedule is subject to reasonable change by mutual agreement.
3.	Employees doing individual jobs within a department may be asked to work different schedules from those listed above, subject to mutual agreement.
4.	The start of breaks and lunch may be postponed, at the foreperson’s discretion, if the continuation of operations is necessary to complete a given pack to ensure quality consistency.
5.	Pick-up shift is adjusted daily to meet the tan drum schedule.
6.	No split shifts will be assigned, unless mutually agreed.
46
SCHEDULE "D
PAY EQUITY
The parties hereto agree that once the Pay Equity Plan is in place, under the Pay Equity Act of Ontario, the resultant Benchmark Job points and job questionnaires will be a basis for future reevaluation of the jobs using the NEUTRALIZER Evaluation Plan.
All new bargaining unit jobs created by the Company will be evaluated using the NEUTRALIZER.
Any disputes arising as a result of such post-Pay Equity evaluations or re-evaluations which are not settled by the grievance procedure will be submitted to Arbitration as provided herein before.