COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT
From October4, 1998 to Octobers, 2001
between
NORIMCO
Division of Bata Industries Ltd
and
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTE RNATIONAL UNION FOOTWEARDIVISION C.L.C. - A.F.L. - C.I.O.
LOCAL UNIONS 175/633
hereinafter referred to as "The Union"
Now therefore, this Agreeement
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
Absenteeism...........................23	.
Agreement not to Reduce
Rates ...............................25	.
Aim of Company Allowances in Rates Arbitration Bargaining Unit Beginner
Benefit Participation
Bereavement Pay......................17	.
Bonuses-Schedule of........... 26-27-28	.
Break Period........................13.
Bulletin Board........................5	.
Calculating Pay......................29	.
Call In..............................23	.
Care of Machinery....................14	.
Classify Jobs......................  25	.
Clerical Errors......................25	.
C.O.L.A. Appendix “A".....................
Collections, No,......................5	.
Co-operation........................14.
Confidential Information.............25	.
Company Policy
Incentive Jobs......................
Continue Old Rate...................
Continuous Shift..........Appendix
Cutters Job Description.............
Deduction of Union Dues.............
Dental Plan ........................
Discharge Cases.....................
Discrimination, No......-...........
Disputes............................
Early Starting & Quitting....... 13
Factory Seconds.....................
Grievance Procedure...................8	.
Group Incentive Bonus................28	.
Group Insurance......................19	.
Government Legislation...............20	.
Guaranteed Rate after 1 yr...........30	.
Guaranteed Hourly Rate...............30	.
Holidays.............................16	.
.42-
.47-
.26-
.39
•43
23
47
10
1
■15
33
32
49 ■27 ..7
50 ■39 28 43 45 62 ..7 28 42
30.....................51
25 ....................43
'C" ................78-82
28.....................49
.49-
.38-
.27
..4 . IQ ■ ..9 . ..4 . ..8 . 23 . 25 .
....4
...35
...14
....4
...14
. 25/39
...48
.10-14
...48
. 33-35 . 36-37
...53
...52
. 30-31
Hourly Rated Jobs
Appendix "A"..............................................55-61
Hours of Work.......................13.......................26
I.L.O. Introductionto Work
Study...............................25.......................44
Incentive Earnings..................25....................41-47
Information, Piece Rates............25....................41-47
Injury, Seniority...................11	 17-23
Inspect Work........................14	 27-28
Insurance.......................... 19....................33-35
InterdepartmentalTransfer..... 11-12......................17-24
Involvementin Labour
Disputes.............................6........................7
Job Classification, App." B"..............................63-73	-
Job Postings........................11	 17-23
Jury Duty & Crown Witness...........17.......................32
Key Operators ...............................................61
List of Officials....................2........................1
Lock Out, No.........................6........................7
Leave of Absence.....................7......................8-9
Lay-Off.............................11	 21-23
Lunch Period........................13....................26-27
Life Insurance......................19.......................35
Late Starting.......................22.......................39
Lack of Materials...................24	 40-41
Letters of Understanding..................................74-77
Mc^agement Rights....................3........................2
Major Medical.......................19.......................35
Machine Breakdown...................24.......................40
Merit Increases.....................25.......................47
New Standards.......................25	 44-46
Night Shift Bonus...................30.......................52
Nominal Roll........................12.......................24
Notify of Time Studies..............25.......................43
Offences Voided.....................23.......................40
O.H.I.P.............................19.......................35
Overtime............................21	 37-38
Overtime, Lunch.....................13.......................27
Pay Day.............................30.......................52
Pay for Unrelated Work..............30.......................53
Pension......................................................36
Performing more than
one operation.......................30.......................51
Piece Rates ....................... 25	 42-43
PlantCommittee.......................7........................8
Plant Rules..........................
Posting..............................
Pregnancy Leave......................
Punching Time Card............... 13
Purpose .............................
Rating Factor........................
Recall...............................
Recognition..........................
Red Circle Rates.....................
Safety...............................
Safety Committee.....................
Safety Equipment Supplied............
Samples..............................
Strike, No...........................
Seniority............................
Seniority, Follow Work...............
Seniority, for Stewards..............
Seniority, Hardship..................
Seniority, on List...................
Seniority, Re Foreman,
Union Officer Shifts Sick Leave
Special Consideration
Standard Output.......
Statutory Holidays Suggestions Welcome Temporary Transfer....
Termination
Twenty % over Standard Union Dues Unfair Labour Practices Union May Check Rates Union May Record Unit Chairperson Paid Vacation Vision Care Wages Appendix " A Waiting Time
Bata Distribution Centre Finished Goods Warehousing App.”A’ Warnings (Absenteeism)
Weekly Indemnity Work Factor
..3.......................2-4
11 ...................18-21
18 .......................33
28 .....................25/49
.. 1 ......................1
25 ....................42-47
11 ....................22-23
..2 .......................1
.46-47
.15-17
...16
...15
...47
...7-8
.17-23
...20
...24
...17
...17
25 ..................42-44
16...................30-31
14......................28
11 .................20-21
ARTICLE 1
Purpose of Agreement
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to strengthen the mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees; to improve the machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours and wages for all employees who aresubjecttothe provisions of this Agreement.
1.02	The governing factors throughout this Agreement shall at all times be the continuing safety of the corporate undertaking and the general welfare of those dependent thereon.
ARTICLE 2
Recognition
2.01	Forthe purpose of this Agreement, the Company recognizes that the Union is the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for its warehouse and production employees locatedin Hastings, Northumberlandand Prince Edward Counties, with the exception of the following classifications of employment which are not subject to the provisions of this Agreement, namely Department Managers, Forepersons, Head Inspectors and Clerical Office Staff and Salaried Employees including Shoe Designers and Plant Guards and persons covered by subsisting 'Collective Agreements.
2.02	Bargaining Unit work will be done by Bargaining Unit personnel except for periods of instructionand in cases of emergency.
1
2.03	The Company will supply the Union with a list of the Department Managers and Forepersonsand any other persons acting in a supervisory capacity designating their appropriate title and area supervised.
ARTICLES
Reservation of Management Rights
3.01	The union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
a.	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged, and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and locations of plants, the products to be manufactured,methodsof manufacturing,schedules of production, methods and patterns of work, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineeringand design of its partsto be incorporated in the products produced and issuing general regulations and plant rules dealing with conduct in the factory, specific duties and provisions for normal retirement. No grievance shall be considered which usurps the Management functions.
b.	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
c.	Hire,discharge,classify,transfer, promote,demote or discipline employees, provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion of transfer, or a claim that an employee has been improperly classified, discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with hereinafter provided.
d.	The Company reserves the right to immediately discharge an employee for the following specific causes:
(1)	Serious misconduct which, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall include disobedi-
2
ence of orders of the Company or its representatives and all acts cf violence such as striking a fellow employee or any member of the supervisory staff or vice versa.
(2)	Disregard cf safety precautions tending to endanger the employee himself or herself or fellow employees or the Company’s property.
(3)	Smoking in the Company’s plantsandcompounds and loafing.
Smoking however, is permittedduring working hours in the designated areas posted throughout the plant under the following conditions:
(a)	Any employee desiring to have a smoke must notify his or her foreperson beforehand in order to keep production running.
(b)	All cigarette butts must be properly extinguished by the smoker and the premises where smoking is permitted must be kept clean.
(c)	This arrangement is made on the understanding that neither the production nor the safety in the plant will be adversely affected. This privilege could be withdrawn from any person abusing it.
(4)	Drinking, or being underthe influence of liquor or un-prescribed drugs while in the Company’s plants or compound or bringing alcoholic beverages or unprescribed drugs on to such premises.
(5)	The use of abusive or threatening language to a fellow employee or any member of the supervisory staff.
3
(6)	Sabotage.
(7)	Punching of another employee's time card and late starting or early quitting.
(8)	Theft or dishonesty.
(9)	Manufacture or repair of personal property on Company's time or premises.
ARTICLE 4
Relationship
4.01	The Company agrees that there will be no discrimination,interference, restraintor coercionprac-tised by the Company or any of its representatives with respect to the employee because of his or her membershipin or connection with the Union, and the membership in the Union by employees who are eligible to join will not be discouraged.
4.02	The Union agrees that there will be no discrimination, intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised upon employees of the Company by any of its membership or representatives, andthatthere will beno Unionactivity, solicitation for membership or collection of dues on Company time, and no meetings on Company premises except with the permission of the Company.
. o t 4.03 The Company agrees to deduct Unions dues '	' from the wages of the Union members every week, or
when the wages are computed for payment. The procedureprovidedfor the duration of thisAgreement will be as follows:
(a)	Every employee, whether present or future, shall 4
once he or she becomes a member of the Union, retain his or her membership in the Union during the life of this Agreement, unless he or she is promoted by the Company to a job which excludes either membershipof the Union or the payment of “Employees’ Benefit Participation”. In case of such promotion the Company notifies the Union and the Union will toward to such employee a resignation card and/or release him from membership and any other obligation within four weeks. \	^
(b)	The obligation of the Company to discharge an employee for failure to pay either the Union dues or monies called “Employees’ Benefit Participation”shall arise only if, in the opinion of the Company, such employee could be promptly replaced by an equally competent employee.
(c)	A list of the members of the Union will be supplied by the Union to the Company forthwith after the execution of this Agreement, and such list shall be revised from time to time so as to be brought uptodate, but in any event, and if requested by the Company, at least quarterly.
(d)	With reference to all employees covered by this Agreement and not members of the Union, the Company agrees that an ’’Employees’ Benefit Participation” as hereinafterprovidedwill beestablishedwithin four weeks from the signing of the Agreement as far as those employees are concerned, and within four weeks after employment as far as persons subsequently employed are concerned. Thereafter, as a condition of continuance in the Company’s service and during the lifetime of this Agreement, such employees shall authorize the Company to deduct from
5
their pay monies called “Employees’ Benefit Participation” equivalentto the Union dues. The amount of such Participationshallbesuchsum as mayfrom time to time be assessed by the Union on its members according to the constitution for general Union purposes.
(e)	It shall not extend to a special assessment which relates to special Union benefits, nor shall it include any entrance fee. Any employee covered by this Agreement shall have the right to become a member of the Union by payingthe entrance fee and complying with the conditions and by-laws cf the Union.The payment of the said “Participation” by an employee does not make such employee a member of the Union, nor shall it directly or indirectly imply that the employee'Tnust become a member thereof.
(f)	The amount thus collected by the Company will be remitted by the Company to the Presidentof the Local Unionwithin two weeks of itscollection to the account as indicated by the president of the Local Union.
4.04	The Company agrees to have a Pay Clerk and the Local Representative of the Union meet for the purposes of passing on to the Union information pertainingto changes in engagements and dismissals and dues paid, and in turn to receive information from the Union regarding deductions of dues. The time of the meeting to be mutually arranged.
4.05	Nothing inthis Agreement shall be construedas obliging the Company to operate a closed shop.
6
ARTICLE 5
Publicity
5.01	The Union may have the use of the bulletin boards in the Company's plants, to be located and designated for the purpose by the Company. It is agreed that the use by the Union of such bulletin boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon of only such noticesas have receivedthe approval of the Company prior to posting. The subject matter of all such notices shall be restrictedto notices pertaining to recreational activities or notices of meetings.
“Collections in the Factory”
5.02	There shall be no collectionsnor solicitations of monies from the employees at any time nor for any purpose.The factory rules shall apply to any employee disregarding this prohibition and any money so collected must be returned to the donor.
ARTICLE 6
Strikes and Lockouts
6.01	The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strikes or other collective action that will stop or interfere with normal production, and that if any suck collective action should be taken, it will instruct its members to carry out the provisionsof this Agreement andto return to work and perform their duties in the usual manner.
6.02	The Union agrees that it will not directly or indirectly involve any employee of the Company or the Company itself in any dispute which may arise between any other employer and the employees of such other employer.
7
IDIU
6.03	The Company agrees that it will not support unfair labour practices under which it is understood that the company will not accept a job from a plant where a legal strike has brokenout and the Company involvedin the strike is sub-contracting its work elsewhere during the legal strike.
ARTICLE 7
Plant Committee
7.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Unionto elect a Plant Committeeto be composed as follows:
(a)	Chief Steward and two of its committee members to be elected from employees of any department of any plant covered by this Agreement - one committee per plant.
(b)	In principle, one Steward should representforty to fifty people. Small departments with like processes will be amalgamated and will be served by one Steward.
(c)	The Maintenance group will be allowed a shop steward. They will also be permitted to have a representative at all future contract negotiations.
7.02	Each Steward will representa definitely defined zone of the Company's operations. The zoning of the Plant for such purposes will be settled from time to time by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
7.03	Union Stewards, with the approval of the Foreperson of the department where they are em-
8
uu I 6 IV IT
ployed, shall be permitted to leavetheir regularduties for a reasonable length of time to perform their duties in connection with this Agreement. If, in the opinion of the Company, more than a reasonable length of time shall have been taken by the Zone Stewardto perform their duties in connection with this Agreement, the Company may decline to approve payment to such Zone Steward for such excess time. Such refusal on the part of the Company may be made the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided. Average wages will be paid to the Chief Steward for all time spent on Union-Company business. Other Zone Stewards will receive only their Guaranteed Hourly Rate. The Union agrees to supply the Company with names of the employees constituting the Stewards, andwill keepsuch list up to date at alltimes.
7.04	In principle, any Union official approaching any employee outside of his or her department in the plant to deal with him or her on Union business, shall notify his entry to the floor Manager or Forepersonin charge of the workshops or department. A welfare officer may be appointed to perform Union obligations not relative to this Agreement during working hours but not paid for by the Company provided such performance does not seriously affect output.
7.05	The Company will endeavour to grant leave of absence for Union members to go on Union business providingbusiness conditions afford the opportunity. However, it may be necessary to only grant partial leave to the number of employees requesting such leave due to heavy production scheduling. Each individual case has to be discussed with the Forepersonor Supervisor involved,and if the production needs are vital such leave of absence may not be granted.
9
7.06	"The union negotiating committee shall be comprised ot the Chief Steward and five (5) elected bargaining unit members. One (1) member shall be from the Maintenance, one (1) member shall be from Warehousing, and one (1) member shall be from the Manufacturing plant. The balance of the committee shall be elected from the bargaining unit as a whole.
ARTICLE 8
Grievance Procedure
8.01	If an employee has any complaint or question pertaining to the collective agreement which he or she wishes to take up with the Company, the employ eesh al I confer with his/her i mmediate Foreperson. The Steward may accompany the employee if the employee requests his/her assistance.
8.02	The decision of the Foreperson shall be given within twenty-four hours or within any longer period which may be mutually arranged at the time.
8.03	Failinga settlement satisfactoryto the employee concerned, the matter shall be then deemed a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided:
8.04	Step No. 1:
The employee shall have the option to put his or her grievance verbally to his or her Foreperson with or without the assistance of a Shop Steward. If not satisfiedwith the settlement,thenthe grievance of the employee shall be reduced in writing on a standard form to be supplied as mutually arrangedby the Union and the Company and signed by the Steward and employee, andwill then be handedto the Foreperson concerned, who shall give his or her decision in writing within twenty-four hours. The employee shall
10
indicatethe Article(s) of the CollectiveAgreementitis alleged have been violated. If still not settled, the grievance will bepassedon to the Divisional Production Supervisorwhowillrendera decision withinforty-eight hours, or within any longer periodwhich may be mutually arranged at the time.
8.05	Ifthis settlement of the grievance is not satisfactory to the employee,the written grievance may then be referred to the Plant Committee.
8.06	(e(HOA Step No. 2:
The plant committee will meet and discuss the grievance with a Committee representing the Management ofthe Company, consistingof a leastthe Human Resources/H&S Officer, and Manufacturing Manager, and at this meeting any officerof the Union may be present, if his presence is requested by either the Union or the Management. At least three full days notice in writing shall be given to the Management prior to such a meeting, and unless mutually agreed upon, thereshall be no more than one meeting in any one week. The Union will supply the Company with agenda of grievances to be discussed at grievance meetings.
8.07	If the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction ofthe PlantCommitteeby the joint meetingof the Plant Committee and the Management Committee, the grievancemay be referredto Arbitration providedthat it is a matter arising out of the administration of this Agreement.
8.08	Any joint meetingof the Plant Committeewith the Management will commence one hour before the quitting time in the afternoon of the day arranged for
11
such meeting. Any grievance meeting that requires the involvement of a non-Company person, e.g. a Union representative,will beheldatamutuallyagree-able time.
8.09	Step No. 3:
When either party of the Agreement desires to submit the grievance to Arbitration, written notice shall be given to the other party formally statingthe subject of the grievance, and at the same time nominating an Arbitrator. Before the nomination of such Arbitrator, the Company may obtain the services of an outside time and methods engineeringexpert to make a study of such case or caseswhich are connectedwith either the output on operations or time study methods. The Company will pay the full cost of employing such expert. The Union may obtainthe services of a qualified time study expert for rechecking the standard output in dispute. The cost for employing such expert will be paid by the Union.
8.10	Within fourteen days after receipt of such notice, the other party shall name an Arbitrator. The periodof fourteen days shall be used in cases dealing with output, piece rates and matters concerning the production. In all other cases, such period shall be shortened to seven days. An extension of the time limits may be mutually agreed.
8.11	The Arbitrators representingthe two parties shall meet immediately, and if they fail to agree upon a settlement of the grievance within forty-eight hours aftertheyhavefirst met, then they will attemptto agree upon a Chairman of the Arbitration Board, and failing such agreement within three days, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario will be requested to name such a Chairman.
12
8.12	As soon as the Arbitration Board has been completed by the selection of a Chairman, it shall meet and hear the evidence and representations of both parties, and shall render a decision as soon as possible, and the intention being that all decisions shall be given within seven days after the Arbitration proceedings have commenced.
8.13	The decision of the Chairman of such Arbitration Board shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement.
8.14The Arbitration Boardshall not have anyjurisdic-tion to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof nor to give any decisions inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
8.15	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it, and the said parties will jointly bear the expenses of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
8.16	No grievance shall be consideredby the Arbitration Boardunless it has been properlycarried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
8.17	All grievances which are older than six months shall be considered null and void.
8.18	Management Grievances
and Union Grievances
(a) It is understoodthat the management may submit to the Unionany complaint with respecttotheconduct of the Union, its officers or stewards, in the administration of this agreement, and if such a complaint by the management is not settledto the mutualsatisfac-
13
tion of the conferring parties, it may be treated as a grievance and referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee.
(b) A Union policy grievance, which is defined as an alleged violation of this agreement concerning the Union itself or all or a group of employees in the bargainingunit, maybe broughtforward by the Union in writing at Step No. 2 of the Grievance Procedureat any time within seven (7) working days after the circumstances giving rise to such policy grievance occurred. If the policy grievance concerns a large group of employees working on more than one (1) operation or in more than one (1) department, then it shall be signed by the Local Union officers and stewards.
ARTICLE 9
Discharge Cases
9.01	A claim by an employee, that he or she has been unjustly dischargedfrom hisor her employment,shall be treated as a grievance, but a written statement of such grievance must be lodged with the Plant Committee and the Personnel Manager within three days after the employee ceases to work for the Company.
9.02	If the employee's claim is found to be justified, then he or she shall be reinstated in his or her employment with full compensationfor time lost at the employee's average daily earnings over the four week period immediately preceding the date of dismissal and with no loss of seniority as established by this Agreement.
9.03	A beginner shall be an employee who is starting his employment with the Company. The Company,
14
may at its discretion, assign a beginner to a higher category of payment and may also promote or discharge him/her during the probation period without following the procedure as outlined in Articles 9.01 and 9.02.
9.04	If an employee is transferred to a new department or division because his or her job is redundant, then the employee will complete a thirty (30) day trial period in this area. Where the employee is unsuccessful, he shall be laid off.
ARTICLE 10
Safety Precautions
10.01	The Company will maintain adequate sanitary arrangements throughout the plant, including the proper supply of drinking water, cool and safe for drinking, and will provide proper safety devices and give proper attention to the elimination of any conditions of employment which are a hazardto the health and safety of the employees.
10.02	Where the nature of the task assigned to an employee requires the use of special equipment and particularlygogglesorprotectiveclothing, such equipment or clothing shall be provided by the Company and such equipment must be used by the employees while performing a job for which such protection is needed. This shall not, however, include such items of clothing as smocks, coveralls, headdress, gloves. Gloves, however, will be providedby the Company for work on open rubber mills and rubber presses. The said equipment shall likewise not include safety boots, except as hereinafter provided and similar items of personal clothing.
15
10.03	The Company reserves the right to formulate, publish and enforce from time to time regulations regarding:
(a)	The use and operation of machines, equipment and plant facilities.
(b)	The terms and conditions upon which special equipment or clothing is issued to employees.
10.04The Unionwill encourage its membersto make proper use of safety equipment provided by the Company. The practiced unsafe conduct on the job, horseplay, practical jokes and all such behaviour which threatens the safety and welfare of an employee or any of his or her fellow workers shall be considered as serious breach of the Company rules and will constitute reason for discharge.
10.05	Each steward or member of the Plant Committee will report any unsafe practices and deviations from the Company's safety rules to his or her Foreperson with a request for action.
10.06	Inthe interest of safety it has been agreed that in certain designated areas it will be compulsory to wear safety footwear. The Company will upon proof of purchase pay up to $65 peryear or$120 every two years towardsthepurchaseof safety footwear. These designated areas are Departments 301-1, 301-2, 647 and the Material Handlers and LiftTruck Drivers in Departments 191, 100,431 and 420 and Leather Dispatchers and Manipulators. Also included are Quality Control, Material Supply, Mixers, MouldCare, Key Operator and Cutters in the Monoplax Division.
10.07	The Company agrees to make available to the members cf the Safety Committee and the full time
16
local union representative the “Safety data sheets” dealing with chemical substances used in the plant.
10.08	All lost time accidents may be investigatedby one Union and Company representative from the Healthand Safety Committee for a reasonable period of time.
ARTICLE 11
Re: Posting, Promotion, Layoff, or Increase of Staff.
All employees when hired will be assigned to a Department within a Division. They will remain in the assigned Department but will have the opportunity through job posting to move within the Division.
11.01	(a) Seniority-Seniorityshall be definedas the length of continuous employment with the Employer in a division. The divisions for the purpose of calculating seniority shall be: Monoplax, Leather, Warehouse, Maintenance and Division 100.
(b) Service- Service shall be defined as the length of continuous employment with the Employer since last date of hire.
11.02	Tho parties agree with the referenceto probationary employees, that:
(a)	All employees, until they have been employed by the Employerfor 60 days worked, shall be probationary employees.
(b)	During the probationary period, the probationary employee shall have no seniority standing. Employees who have completed said probationary period and have been retained by the Employer at the
17
expiration thereof, shall be credited with seniority back to the date of last hire.
11.03	Within thirty (30) calendar days of ratification V<> and in January and July of each year thereafter, the c senioritylist,includingthe employees'seniority,serv-
ice date and employment status (full-time or part] time) shall be posted in various departments and a copy provided to the Union.
11.04	An employee shall, subject to any abridging provisions, lose his seniority in the following circumstances:
(a)	If he is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated:
^ (b) If he resigns voluntarily:
^ (c) If he is laid off for a period in excess of twentyfour (24) consecutive months:
J (d) If, following an indefinite or permanent lay-off, he fails to return to work within fourteen (14) calendar days after receiving noticeto do so unless on reasonable grounds he is unable to do so. The employee shall be deemed to have received notice to return to work if the Employersends him such notice by Registered Mail.
11.05	Vacancies, Job Posting, Promotions and Transfers:
(a) Where a job vacancy occurs ora new job is created which the Employer fills or intends to fill, it shall post a notice of such vacancy on all bulletin boards within seven (7) calendar days. Such postingshall be within a division and shall be for a minimum period of three (3) working days, and a copy cf the notice shall be provided to the Union. The notice shall set out a description of the Job, the qualifications required of
18
applicantsfor the job, the hours cf work (shift) andthe wage rate for the job. Any employeewho is absent at the time a posting occurs, and who has made a request in writing prior to such absence, shall be considered for job postings occurring during the period of such absence. It is understood and agreed thatthereshall be no "standing" notice and that afresh notice must be given in advance of each leave granted.
(b)	In filling job vacancies, including promotions, the job shall be awardedwithin twenty-one (21) calendar days of the posting. The Employer shall be governed by the following factors, as between two or more applicants.
In filling any posted vacancy under the Article, the v Company will consider the requirements and effi- \ ciency of the operations, the qualifications, skill andvj5A ability of the individualto perform the normal required work and where these are relatively equal, seniority shall govern. If the job is not filled as a result of the job posting or no suitable applicants are received from within the division, the Company will review all letters on file from employees outside of the division and thereafter reserves the right to hire.
(c)	The vacancy resulting from the placing of the successful applicant inthe positionso postedwill also be posted but any further vacancies may be filled by the employer without posting.
Inthe event that the successful applicant is unsatisfactory or wishes to returntohisformerjob, he maybe returned to his former job within thirty (30) days and the job filled without further posting. The Company will consider the other applicants when filling the vacancy.
19
Inthe event the employee i s not able or does not wish to complete the training or trial period, or cannot satisfactorily perform the job following the training or trial period, he shall be returnedto hisformer position, wage or salary rate, without loss of seniority; and any other employee who has been promoted or transferred because of the rearrangement of position, will also be returnedto his former position, wage or salary rate, without loss of seniority. Employees from the factory who are sent to the warehouse to work, will be paid at their average wage.
(d)	No employee shall be transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit without his consent. If an employee is transferred to a position outside the bargainingunit, he shall retain his seniority accumulated up to the date of leaving the unit, but will not accumulate further seniority. Such employee shall have the right to return to a position in the bargaining unit consistent with his seniority accumulated up to the date of transfer outside the unit.
(e)	No employee shall be transferred in excess of five (5) days to another position either within or outside their division without their consent. If a consenting employee i stransferredto another position, they shall be returned to their former position within sixty (60) calendar days and any other employee affected by the transfer shall be returned to their former position without loss of wages or seniority.
Vacancies of more than 60 days must be posted except for replacements for sickness, compensation, leave of absence and temporary transfer.
(f)	An employee who, for the convenience of the Company, is transferred temporarily to another job while work is available at his/her regularjob, shall be
20
paid while so employed at the rate of pay of the job to which he/she is transferred, or his average earnings from his own job, whichever is greater.
An employeewho /stransferredtemporarilyto another job while no work is available at his/her regularjob shall be paid while so employed at the rate of pay in the job to which he is transferred.
A temporary transfer is one where an employee is temporarily on loan to another department while still retaining their job in existing department.
(g)	New employeesshall not be hiredwhere there are employees on lay-off who have the ability to do the job. Employees from the factory that are sent to the warehouse to work, will be paid at their average wage.
Employees who are temporarily laid off and want to work, when work is available at the Distribution Centres will receive the Distributions Centres start rates and progressthrough the Distribution Centres Wage Grid.
1.06 (a) IN A TEMPORARY LAY-OFF:
An employee who is laid-off for over 1 day may exercise his or her seniority in the same division providingtheyhavepreviouslysuccessfully performed a job held by a more junior employee.
(b) Employees who have been laid-off and recalled to their job, shall maintain all their seniority rights and privileges according to the provisions established herein. lnotherwords,thelayoffwill notinterruptsuch rights providingthey will returnto workwithin48 hours after being calledto work or have a serious reasonfor being unable to return to work or bring a doctor's certificate certifying their ability or disability to commence to work.
21
(c)	Seniority employees who have been laid off shall have the right to displace a probationaryemployee in other divisions.
(d)	If an employee bumps into another division they shall retain their seniority in their own division for twelve (12) months. If at the end of this time they have not been recalled to their own division their seniority will start from the first day worked in the new division.
11.07	PERMANENT LAY-OFF AND RECALL:
(An indefinite lay-off may become permanent as described in the Employment Standards Act 40-10.)

(a) Inthe event of a lay-off, the followingprocedurewill be followed:
i)	Probationary employees will be laid off first, then,
ii)	Seniority employees in the reverse order of their divisional seniority;
iii)	Seniority employees who have been laid off shall have the right to displace a probation
ary employee in other divisions;
iv)	It is understood that the remaining employees still working must have the ability to perform the normal requirements of the remainingjobs. Recall shall be in the reverse order of the above lay-off procedure.
(b) The Employer shall notify employees who are to be laidoff seven (7)calendar days priorto the effective date of lay-off, or award pay in lieu thereof, unless a greater period of notice is required by legislation, in which case such greater period of notice or pay in lieu thereof shall be given.
Inthe event of the closure of a division, employees 22
may exercise their length of service to displace the most junior person in another division.
If an employee bumps into another division they
shall retain thefr seniority in their own division for twelve (12) months. If at the end of this time they have not been recalled to their own division their seniority will start from the first day worked in the new division.
(e)	Employees shall be recalled in order of their divisionalsenioritywhen jobs becomeavailablewithin that division.
(f)	The Company will continue its present policy according to which laid off employees are first given the opportunity of recall (to any division) before new employees are hired.
(g)	(i) Where a temporary position becomes available, the Company will ask qualified employees, by seniority, to fill the vacancy. If the vacancy cannot be filled through this process the junior employee must fill the vacancy.
(ii) Temporary vacancies will not exceed sixty (60) calendar days. If the vacancy goes beyond the sixty (60) days the job must be posted.
ARTICLE 12
General
12.01	Theaimofthe Company,with the co-operation of the Union, will at all times be to endeavour to maintain fifty weeks of productive work yearly. When a reductionof workingstaff is necessary,the following procedure will be followed:
12.02	(a) Should changes in business conditions require a reduction in work, any such occurrence will be dealt with on a departmental basis, but a sincere
23
and serious effort will be madeto effect inter-departmental transfers. Prior to any lay-off, the Company (Supervisor) shall post the lay-off notice as soon as possibleafterthe lay-off decision is made, but at least four (4) hours notice before the end of the shift.
(b)	Two (2) hours notice of a change in the start time of a layoff time shall be provided.
12.03	The Company shall note on each monthly dues print-outthe employeeswho have retired, quitor were dismissed.
12.04 Employees laid-off on account of shortage of work will have special consideration when an increase of staff is anticipated. Such consideration will be dealt with on a departmental basis with the possibility of inter-departmental transfers.
1^2.05 Seniority of Stewards: Members of the Plant Committee will have special consideration as to seniority in the event of a lay-off due to lack of work in their department. In any case, lay-off or discharge of a member of the Plant Committee may be effected only by the Personnel Manager or Production Superintendent.
06 A joint employee-management committeecom-posed of the three (3) representatives of both manS agement and the union shall meet every three (3) monthsto discuss matters of mutual interest. Employ-I ees attending such meetings shall suffer no loss of 1 earnings during regular hours. The union representatives will not be from the same department.
12.07	An employee may make known his wish to be transferred from one shift to another in writing to the Personnel Department for information purposes.
w
24
ARTICLE 13
Rules & Regulations Concerning WorkingTime
! 3.01 The regular working time consists of eight hours per shift less the 10 minute break period as specified in the Agreement. The regular starting and quitting time, as well as the luncheon period, is specified in the Agreement as well as the provisions for night shift and overtime work.
13.02	Every employee is required to be at their working place at startingti me ready to commence his or herwork. Nonadherance to this regulationshall be dealt with according to the specific provisions of the Agreement. The Company does not support any practice of some employees who are attempting to start earlier at work in order to pick up better work for themselves, or to accumulate work for themselves, thus depriving others of their share of the work.
13.03The administration of this rulingis subject to the grievance procedure as per Article 8 of this Agreement. The Company will post a special notice in the plant concerningthe starting and quitting regulations as per outlined in this paragraph.
13.04	Every employee is required to punch his or her time card before starting time and after the quitting time. Punching another employee’stime card will be regarded by the Company as cause for dismissal.
13.05	The punch card serves as the basis for the payroll and every employee shall use it according to the specific regulations provided for computation of wages. The Company will show to the proper Union officials of the Local concernedthe punch card of an
25
employee who approaches the Union with a grievance concerning wages.
13.06	Shifts
The Company will operate a day shift and when necessarya nightshift. Such shifts may alternate from day to night shifts as may be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union from time to time in order to give the employees an opportunity to have a change.
<lA$3.07	Hours of Work
The working week will consist of forty hours, divided into five days cf eight hours each.
Startingtime for the day shiftwill be7:30 a.m. Starting time for the evening and night shifts will be mutually agreed upon by Management and the Union. Employees at the Trenton (Sidney St.) Warehouse and in Dept.410-1 will start the day shift at 7:00 a.m.
13.08	It is understood that the best utilization of machinery and equipment and the desirability of avoiding lost time will be the governing factor in the establishment of starting and quitting times for night shifts.
<2 l <02
13.09	The Company will continueto allow employees a ten-minute rest period each working day during Company time. The rest period will be observed between 9:30 a.m. and 9:40 a.m.
13.10	HALF HOUR LUNCHES
Providingthe half hour lunchperiodis not abused, the normal day shift on a regular working day will be as follows:
26
(\ V +-> *■*'
From 7:30 a.m. till 12:00 noon From 12:30 p.m. till 4:00 p.m.
The lunch breaks may be staggered in order to
effectively utilize existing lunchrooms.
13.11	Lunch Period:
On the day shift, the employees shall beallowedahalf hour for lunch, and on the night shift one half hour lunch - both on their own time.
13.12	If an operator is called upon toperformsomejob of shortduration duringthe lunch period, he/she shall be guaranteed either half-hourwork or half-hour pay, at overtime rate. Such overtime must be properly authorized by the Company on the time card.
ARTICLE 14
Maintenance of Output arid Quality
14.01	The Union acknowledges the importance and need of maintaining a high standard of quality and production schedules. In order to carry out these obligations the Union agrees to:
(a)	Put forward every effort to maintain estimated production schedules. Every employee shall use such working methods and working arrangements as specifiedby the proper Company officials, The Company welcomes suggestions for improving methods of production and will encourage the same by rewarding those whose suggestions are accepted.
(b)	In order that only satisfactory work is passed on to the next operator, every operator, before commencing his/her operation is to inspectthe work of his/her predecessors, and in case of doubt will consult the
27
Foreperson. It is understood that written specifications of an operation, or wherever possible a sample of an operation,will be given by the Forepersonto the operator where necessary in addition to the oral information and instructions.
(c)	Co-operate with the Management in having employees punch their time cards properly and to encourage employees to be at their place of work at starting time.
(d)	Co-operate with the Management to generally improve discipline, efficiency and morale.
(e)	Co-operate with the Management in stressing to the employees the necessity of their daily care of machinery and equipment and keeping the same clean and in good operating condition.
ARTICLE 15
Vacations
'The Company will provide a two (2) week plant shut down during the summer for the Batawa manufacturing plant for vacation purposes. The Company will post to notify the employees of the vacation scheduling by January 8th. The employees who are entitled to morethantwo (2) weeks vacation must submit their requested weeks to the Company by April 15th and the Company must respond by April 30th. This balance of their vacation will be arranged on a mutually agreeable basis. If the employees request vacation priorto April 15th, the Company will respond within one (1) week.
15.02	Annual vacations at the Distribution Centres 28
will be staggered, as is currently practised using the January 15th and April 1st time frames as listed above.
15.03	Every employee shall be granted a vacation pay pursuant to the Employment Standards Act of Ontario as amended, or as hereinafter provided. For the purpose of calculation of the leave period, an employee’s year of service will be from week 27 to week 26 inclusive.
15.04	When an employeeceases to be employed, the Company will pay vacation with pay as entitled.
15.05	TWO WEEKS VACATION:
Employees with two months to one year (less one day) of service as of July 15 will receive one day per month annual vacation pay.
15.06	Employees with one to three years (less one day) of service as of July 15 will receivetwo weeks of annual vacation pay.
15.07	Employees with three but less than five years (less one day) of service as of July 15 will receivetwo weeks plus one day of annual vacation pay.
15.08	Employees with five but less than ten years (less one day) of service as of July 15th will receive
^) three weeks of annual vacation pay.
:y
x 15.09 Employees with ten years but less than fifteen (less one day) of service as of July 15 will receive four week of annual vacation pay.
29
15.10 Employees with fifteen years service but less than twenty-five years (lessone day) as of July 15 will receive four weeks andthree days of annual vacation
pay-
15.1	1 Employeeswith twenty-fiveyears (andover) of service as of July 15 will receive five weeks and one day of annual vacation pay.
15.12	In case of lay-off, the employee does not lose his right to vacation entitlement, and further provided the lay-off does not last longer than one year. Leave of absence granted to an employee in order to undergo military trainingwill be regardedas service with the Company for purpose of calculating leave due.
15.13	All employees entitled to two weeks annual vacation will receivefour per cent of their actual total earnings in lieu of such vacations and vacation pay for three weeks at six per cent andfour weeks at eight percent. The additional vacation pay for each day is calculated at .4%
ARTICLE 16
Statutory Holidays
16.01	All efn^loyees who have completed their probationary period will be granted eleven statutory holidays annually.
16.02	The Statutory Holidays in respect of which payment will be made as indicated above will be the following:
NewYear's Day, Good Friday, Dominion Day, Labour Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, Victoria Day, Civic
30
Holiday,Thanksgiving Day, RemembranceDay (November 11th), and a floating holiday. If any such day falls on other than a working day, The Company will pay it as a Statutory Holiday.
16.03	In order to qualify for Statutory Holiday pay an employee must have completed the regularly scheduled shifts both immediately before and after such Statutory Holiday or when such Statutory Holiday is actually observed excepting cases of leave of absence as herein provided or if the absence was due to a verified medical reason.
During such leave, a statutory holiday will be paid only if the employee has worked at least one day in the preceding four week.
16.04	Floating Holiday
The eleventh Statutory Holiday will be called a floating holiday. In the event that Government legislates Heritage Day as a holiday, then this floating holiday will be held on this date. Otherwise, when Dominion Day falls on a Tuesday or Thursday, this floating holiday will be held between Dominion Day and the weekend.
The scheduling of this holiday will be mutually agreed upon during the negotiation. The floating holiday will be held:
1999 Friday, July 2
2000,	Friday, June 30
2001,	Monday, December 24
Nothing contained herein shall require the Company to give more than eleven holidays per year.
31
ARTICLE 17 PAID LEAVE
Bereavement Pay
17.01	Bereavement pay will be paid to all and every permanent employee having over 3 months continuous service. The pay to be for five (5)days in case of deathoffamily members (husband, wife, child, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, foster parents legallyappointed by the courts, son-inlaw, daughter-in-law and grandchild). Payment will be made on the basis of five (5) working days. Should such days come on Saturday andSunday, a minimum of three (3) days shall be paid. The bereavementpay is to be computed on basic guaranteed hourly wage, if anemployee takes time offworktoattendthefuneral of a brother-in-law,sister-in-law, or grandparent, he or she will be entitled up to one (1) day's pay.
17.01	(a)An employee will be allowed to save one (1) day from the above five (5) days provision i f a spring interment is necessary.
Jury Duty and Crown Witness
17.02	When an employee has been summoned to serve on Jury Duty or as a Crown Witness, he/she will receive the difference between the average rate and that paidby the governmentfor all regulartime lost on such duties.
ARTICLE 18
Sick Leave Policy Without Pay
18.01	Any employee who is absent on sick leave for
32
less than twenty-six weeks or for a specific length of time, whichever is the greater, except in cases of pregnancy, will have their job and service protected during this period. In cases of indefinite absence over twenty-six weeks for health reasons, the Company will grant a non-paid leave of absence for up to one year. Duringthis periodthe employee'sservicewill be protectedandthejob, if available on his/her return, or shortly thereafter, will be held open for him/her. While it may not always be possible for the Company to guarantee an employee returning from an indefinite sick leave exactly the same job which he/she left, the Company will make every attempt to place the employee on his/her return in as similar a job as is possible, as quickly as possible. Extended sick leave will be recognized as such on presentation of a doctor's certificate.
\0-CP) 1
18.02 Maternity and parental leave will be given in accordancewith the EmploymentStandardsAct. This may be extended to one year for verified medical reasons.
ARTICLE 19
Benefits
19.01	The followingplanto be in effect only duringthe life of the present Agreement. All employees of the Shoe Division are required, as a condition of employment, to join the Group Insurance Plan established by the Company with a bona fide insurance company or companies and improved as per the schedule attached. Employees who are temporarily laid off or on approved leave will remain on the payroll and benefits list for a maximum of twelve (12) months. Upon receipt of the benefits cheque the employee will pay up their outstanding premiums.
All new employees who have completed the probationary period will be eligible for these group insurance benefits, effective on the first pay periodfollow-
33
ing 6 months from their date of hire (except Pension and Dental, which are explained elsewhere in this Agreement).
19.02	All insurancecoveragewill be as perthe master insuranceagreement as seenby the Union Executive on the appropriatedate. The planto be consideredas part of this Agreement. The details are as follows:
19.03	Weekly Indemnities: The employees who are members of this group insurance plan are entitled
V .also to the weekly indemnity payment:
The weekly Indemnitywillbeincreasedtothe amount y^altowed by the Unemployment Insurance Act which ' h is currently at66 2/3% of wagesto a maximumbenefit allowed by the Unemployment Insurance per week.
19.04	Provides a weekly indemnity commencing the first day in case of hospitalization or accident, other than occupational, and on the 5th day in case of sickness, up to twenty-six weeks.
19.05	Computationof Weekly Earningsfor Indemnity Payment:
Weekly earnings shall be based upon average earnings for given periods as hereinafter defined, rather than upon basic hourly rates. The average earnings shall be computed as follows:
C& cf 2L
19.06	On January 1st of each and every year, the categories shall be reviewed and each insured employee placed in one of the categories according to his or her Average Weekly Earnings. This shall be arrived at by taking the total earnings for the preceding calendar year and dividing it by the number of weeks worked in that year shown on the T4 form for that year.
34
^2 *
19.07	HospitalBenefit:The costofward accommodation is paid plus semi-private room up to 180 days. If the cost of premium for OHIP will be higher than the present participationof the employees,the Company will absorb such additional costs of the premium for the duration of this Agreement.
19.08	The Company will pay 100% of the premium cost of OHIP duringthe life of the presentAgreement
19.09	Major Medical - $25 deductible per calendar year. Insurance Company pays 90% of remaining expenses, employees, 10%. Maximum payable
-J>10,000 over three (3) years.
t\>\
19.10	In addition to the above, all employees belong-^ ingto the Group Insurance Plan are covered by a Life 0 Insurance policy for $35,000 (thirty-five thousand
^ dollars). The increasedcostto providethis coverage x will be shared equally by the Company and employee. Additional optional life insurance is available at cost to the employees and their dependents. The cost of this coverage shall be paid for by the employee.
Ji--(feX)
19.11	The cost of the Group Insurance Plan to be shared equally by the Company and employee.
DENTALPLAN

19.T2 The Company will provide a Dental Plan and “pay 100% of the premiumcostforeligible employees, the terms of which include, Blue Cross No. 9 or equivalent or better coverage. In July of each year, coverage isto bebasedonthepreviousyear’sO.D.A. Eligibility for the plan is 12 months service with the Company and with a 80-20 co-insurance or better. The Company will select the carrier.
35
PENSION PLAN
19.13 The Company will provide a Pension Plan for all employees in the bargaining unit, who have completed their probationary period as outlined in the Pension Agreement. This Pension Agreement provides that an employee who has completed 10 or more years of service will, upon normal retirement age, be entitledto a fully vested pension, at the rate of $17.00 per month times their credited years of service to Oct. 3, 1996. Effective Oct. 4th, 1996 increase to $18.00 per month for all service from Oct. 4th, 1996. Effective Oct. 4th, 1997 increaseto$21.00 per month for all service from Oct. 4th, 1997.
On termination inthis Pension Plan, the vested monies will be transferable to the individual and it is life insured until then.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 7 of the Pension Plan, the Company agrees that during the term of the Collective Agreement, it will contributeto the Pension Fund, not less than 26.5 cents as defined in Article 3,03 for each hourworked by a member as an employee.
of one hundred dollars ($100) per family as defined in the current medical plan once every twenty-four months.
Effective October4th, 1999 - CHANGE"$100.00" to read "105.00".
Effective October 4th, 2000 - CHANGE "105.00" to read "$115.00".
(b) The company will arrangefor a card that provides a group discount of 20% off regular price prescription andsun glasses, and 10% offsale pricedprescription and sun glasses, for all family members.
36
ARTICLE 20
Government Legislation
20.01	Should Government legislation be enacted providing for increased medical, pension or other programs duplicating existing coverage, such additional coverage shall be subject to reviewwith a view of preventing duplication in cost and/or coverage.
20.02	Should such legislatedbenefits be in excess of existing coverage, the Company will be liable for only the difference.
20.03	If as a result of any such legislatedchange the Company is no longer required to pay certain sums of money on behalf of employees it is hereby agreed that such monies will be used to provide equivalent wage increases or new benefits either of which shall be negotiated between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 21
Overtime
21.01	Overtime will only be permitted on a special permit signed by the Production Manager authorizing the individualto work and statingthe number of hours of overtime authorized.
21.02	If, overtime is required, the employee will be paidon the basis of basic guaranteed hourly wage at time and one-half or in straight piece rate, plus one-half of basic guaranteed hourly wage, whichever is the higher. AE overtimework will be governed by the “Employment Standards Act of Ontario”. An employee, in order to be eligible to work overtime must have completed a full shift of eight hours work.
21.03	No overtime work is permitted in excess of four hours following the regular shift, except in cases of emergency.
37
21.04	If an employee is called upon to perform overtime work after or before the regular working shift, he will be guaranteed at least one hour of such work or one hour's pay at overtime rate.
21.05	In individual cases where overtime work is needed during the lunch period, employees called in for such job shall be guaranteed either one-half hour ofworkorone-halfhourofpay.atovertimerate. When working during the lunch period each individual must take a half hour lunch break later.
21.06	On mutual agreement with the Union a regular job may be worked up to one-half hour before standard starting time or one-half hour after standard quitting time. Pay for such to be no less than one-half hour at overtime rate. Refusalto work this change in shift hours will not result in disciplinary action.
21.07	Any work performed in addition to regularly assigned hours, or any performed on the eleven Statutory Holidays: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Dominion Day, Labour Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, Victoria Day, Civic Holiday, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day (November 11th), Heritage Day (or equivalent). Saturdays and Sundays will be considered as overtime work except that, in case of night shift, only the shift that commences on the evening of a Statutory Holiday will be considered as overtime. The rate for overtime will be time and one-half of basic guaranteed hourly wages or in straight piece rate, plus one-half of basic guaranteed hourly wages, whichever is higher.
CALL-IN
21.08	When an employee in Maintenance is called in during his off hours to perform overtime work, he will 38
be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours work or pay at the applicable overtime rate.
ARTICLE 22
Late Starting
22.01	For lateness up to three minutes, there shall be no penalty.
22.02	For lateness from four to eighteen minutes, the penalty shall be 15 minutes’ pay.
22.03	For latenessfrom nineteen to thirty-three minutes, the penalty shall be one half hour’s pay.
ARTICLE 23
Absenteeism
23.01	If an employee is absent the whole normal working day without prior permission of the Company, orwithoutnotifyingthe Company before9:30 a.m. on the first day of his/her absence, and upon his/her return to work is unable to offer the Company a satisfactory explanation of his/her absence, each such absence shall constitute an offence and the Company reserves the right to impose the following penalties:
First Offence - - Warning.
Second Offence - - Suspension for three normal working days without pay.
Third Offence - - Discharge.
23.02	It is understood that this provision regulates also the early quitting and late starting in connection with break periods.This includes the 10-minute rest break, the lunch break, andthe start or end of a shift.
39
Discipline
23.04	A Union Steward shall be present at all meetings where discipline is being handed out. When a steward for that specific department is not available, the Company will attempt to have another Union officer attend the meeting.
23.05	Disciplinary notices for absenteeism (AWOL) will be kept separate from other disciplinary action. These warnings shall be voided after twelve (12) clear months.
For all other warnings, progressive discipline, as outlined in article 23.01, will continue to be used. These warnings shall be voided after twenty-four (24) clear months.
ARTICLE 24
MACHINE BREAK DOWN AND LACK OF MATERIALS
24.01	Inthe event of machine breakdown and waiting for lack of materials, when the Company requires the employee to remain in the plant, other than as the result of flood, fire, power failure or other causes outside of the control of the Company, the operator affected shall notify tho Foreperson immediately and the Foreperson will investigate the situation. If feasible, the Foreperson will assign the operator to another machine or job. During such transfer, the operator will be paid at the rate of that job or on the basis of Guaranteed Basic Wage whichever is the higher, however, if such transfer to work unrelatedto shoe production as provided in Article 30.10 herein shall apply.
24.02	Should it not be feasible to provide the operator
40
with anotherjob during such breakdown,the operator will be paid for waiting time in excess of ten (10) minutes per shift at basic wages according to classification, providingthe operator meets the conditions of Article 24.04.
24.03	Itisunderstoodthatinordertobenefitunderthis clause the employee must have his time card initialled bythe Foreperson of his/her departmentatthe beginning and at the completion of the period of machine breakdown.
24.04	In order for any eligible employeeto be paidfor waiting time on a shift, the operator must first have experienced one (1) occasion of unpaid waiting time of not less than ten (10) minutes duration.
Incentive Earnings
25.01	In additionto the guaranteed hourly wages, the Company will continue to pay piece rates based on standard production minutes earned (S.P.M.) ac-cordingtothesystemestablished. The main incentive earning for the employee is provided in piece rates.
25.02	It is understood that information about the individual output will be published at the same time the piece rates are published and thus made official and operative. The appropriate Union officials may record the piece rates for their own information. All rates are, and will be established by the appropriate Company officials using scientific time and motion study methods. This includes both the future piece rates and output standards as well as the re-checking of those rateswhich are now inexistence,a task which
41
has to be performed gradually. It is understood, however, that all such figures shall be treated at all times as the Company'sconfidentialinformationwhich must not be divulged to outsiders.
25.03	It is understood that information about the individual output will be given at the same time the piece rates are published, and thus made official and operative.The appropriate Union officials may record the piece ratesfor their own information. Ifthey desire to do it after working hours, they should inform either the Personnel Manager and receive from them the usual permit to enter the respective department for that purpose. It is understoodhowever, that all such figures shall be treated at all times as Company confidential informationwhich must not be divulged to outsiders.
25.04	All piece rates are established with regard to the present methods of work, present machinery and equipment, and may be subjectedto change with the changing methods, machinery and equipment. The piece rates shall be changedwhen there is a change in content of the work, in machinery, in equipment, i n work layout, supply of work handled which the operator can deliverthe requiredoutput. In every instance, such change will be done on the basis of thorough time studies.
25.05	Standard output is established for each operation. It isnot influencedby the number at the time, and such circumstances under of pairs which the individual workshop, conveyor or factory might be making per day.
25.06	When a new piece rate is set during such change, an operator would continue to receive for
42
fourweekstheold piecerate. Duringthesefourweeks all problems connected with the change must be settled and the new piece rate will come into effect beginning on the fifth week after the date put down on the Time Study Sheet.
25.07	The Union will be notified about such change at the time when the Time Studiesarefinished andthe date onthe Time Study Sheetwill be considered to be the starting date for the four week period mentioned above.
25.08	The Time Study Sheet is completed when signed by the Costing Manager and the Production Manager with date affixed. Within two days from this date the new piece rate will be established and the Production Manager will pass on the information on the piece rate to the Department Union Steward or Chief Steward, includingthe information and date of completion cf the Time Study the operator is entitled to four weeks at the old rate.
25.09	If the output established by such new Time Studies will not be higherthanfive percent(5%), there will be no change in the old established piece rate.
Establishing Operating Standard Output and Piece Rates
To establish the standard output on every operation the Company is using the Work Factor Time Study System. This system is well established onthe North American Continent and used by the Company for about 20 years.
25.10	Basically the Work Factor Time Study System represents the combination of efficient industrial engineering in selecting the best ways available in the
43
factory to performthe work operations and measuring all elements of each operation by mathematical time averages established by analysis of movementsand/ or functions needed to perform the whole operation. This system resemblesthe mathematicaltables used by the Insurance i ndustry to establish boththe premiums and reimbursements.
25.11	Other time study methods for measuring the Standard output of work (either “predetermined Time Study Methods” or “Stop Watch Methods”) can be used by the Union to checkthe findings on “Standard outputs” worked out by Company time study men using“Work Factor”method. The Company agrees to recheck any operation with a stop watch which the Union has challenged through the grievance procedure usingthe methods of time study as described by the I.L.O. in Geneva (in the book “Introduction to Workstudy”). In case of absolute disagreementon the Standards of output in a specific operation the Company agrees to submit the case to arbitration which would decide which of the standardsby either method is correct.
25.12	The Company agrees to build into the production standards, established by Work Factor or stop watch methods, at least 15% time allowances. The Company also agrees to inform the operator before starting the Time Study in rechecking the output standards challenged by the Union in the grievance on his operation and immediately upon completion of the study inform him of the RATING FACTOR given him. The pertinent documents of such study shall be given to the worker or the Union.
25.13	A production standard once accepted shall not be changed except in the case where the Company
44
makes a change in the material, tools, machines, method or design of an operation. A production standardonce accepted shall not be changedmerely because of a change in name or symbol, but only if such a change significantly effects the standard output.
25.14	The above procedures for changing standard output are basedon the principlethat any changes in standards shall permit the same incentive earnings as existed under the accepted original standards.
25.15	The discovery of clerical errors in the computation of a standard output shall warrant an appropriate adjustment in that standard, but such errors shall be brought to the attention of the partieswithin six (6) months after the issuance of the standard.
IU.U
25.16	The incentive earnings (piece rates) shall be established by adding to the guaranteed basic wage on any and every class of operation at Ieast20% and dividing such hourly earning by Standard output per production hour (60 minutes) becausethe 15% time allowanceisbuiltupinto"Standardoutput". The result represents the piece rates. In instances where the Company, by means of comparing existingtime studies with newtime studies, usingthemethodsprovided forinthecollectiveagreement,areabletoprovetothe Union that due to clerical errors or creeping change, certain rates havebecome out of line, such rates shall be changed under the following rules.
25.17	(a) Certain employees are currently receiving rates which are in excess of the specifiedrates which are called for inthe Collective Agreement. Such rates are known as Red Circled rates, on a job, shall continue to do so for only as longasthey performsuch
45
jobs. Any new or other employee who performs such shall receive only the specified rate.
is understood that an employee currently performing ajob on a Red Circled rate shall be permitted to continue sucFTjdb so long as the job is being performed in that department or its successor and a job won't be removedffom a departmentto avoidthe payment of Red Circled rates.
(c)	Nothing herein shall restrict an employee from grieving a specified ratefor ajob which also has a Red Circled rate for a maximum period of six (6) months from ratification or, if later, the first time any employee performs the job.
(d)	Employees performing jobs on Red Circled rates shall be entitled to the same increases in rates and base wages as other employees.
25.18	The Company agrees not to reduce the piece rate earning existing at the time of signing this agreement if the earning of operators are higher than 20% of the basic wages established by this agreement.
25.19	The time study men shall, when making any study of individual operation, insurethat circumstances and conditions existing at the time of the study are properly representativeof those which will exist inthe future and record in sufficient detail on the appropriate observation sheet all circumstances and conditions pertaining to the operation so that the operation could if necessary be reconstituted in the future.
25.20	The incentive system is designed to give the employeean opportunityto earn a minimumof at least twenty per cent over and above the guaranteed
46
hourly rates with standard output as established by the Work Factor time and motion study methods' in many cases the opportunity exists to earn even more accordingto the skill or effort requiredfor the performance of the job.
25.21	When a person is required to work on the production cf samplesthepieceratefor such work will be double the normal rate for the operation.
25.22	AH employees will be job classified when they have completed their probationary period. During such probation periodthe start rate will be 25 cents less than the classification rate.
25.23	The Company reserves the right to pay even higher guaranteed basic wages to such employees who merit them on account of the output and quality of work delivered.
25.24	New positions when added to the bargaining unit will havethe wages and benefitsmutually agreed to at that time in writing.
25.25	Deductions for “B” pairs (factory seconds) will not be made if the defect is caused outside cf the assembly unit.
25.26	AH buckets would have a minimum of ten (10c) cent coupons.
ARTICLE 26
Development Bonus
26.01	In order to reward the employees in newly-established workshops, where production has not
47
reached its standard output, a Development Bonus will be established.
26.02	Each such new workshop will have its own production plan showing the development of its output. The full Developmerit Bonus will be paid in all instances where all factors, output and quality are progressing according to the development plan.
26.03	As a principlethe Union will be informedbythe Company about all regular bonuses paid to the employees covered by this Agreement.
ll-a
IS-
ARTICLE 27
Other Bonuses
27.01	Realizing that higher wages, better quality of footwear and greater security of employment can be achieved and maintained only by maintaining the standard output of workshops, uniformity in quality of goods, and regular attendance, both the Union arid the Company agree on the establishment of the following incentive bonuses for all employees in the production departments.
U
(a)
ARTICLE 28
Group Incentive Bonus
28.01	Inorderto qualifyfor group incentive bonus any absence must be covered by an official leave of absence signed by the Division Production Manager, or produce a Doctor’s certificate in case of sickness. The bonus will be paid in proportion to the number of hours worked.
28.02	It is agreed that failure to comply with the 48
regulations relating to the punching of time cards could result in forfeiture of the bonus in respect of the periodthe employee was entitled to the bonus, without restrictingthe generality of Article 3 with respect to the Reservationof ManagementRights, (Dismissal of the employee for punching another employee's time card).
28.03	The upper cutting regulations as formulated in the letter to the Union September 6, 1960 shall be applied as the job description of the cutters, while all bonuses for these jobs were incorporatedinto piece rates.
ARTICLE 29
Methods of Computing the Wages in the Finishing Room (conveyors etc.)
29.01	On all bottom conveyors of Departments320 and420, the pay will be calculatedon the planswhich are packed on the floor up to Saturday Midnight of eachworkingweek, meaningthat at that time, packed shoes will be counted, and even if the plan is not completed, such part of the plan found packed on the floor will be counted in that week.
29.02	Sewing units, upper and bottom manipulation will continue to use the present method of computing wages for payroll, which means that every Saturday Midnight is closing time for payroll, The Foreperson counts what has been produced by every individual operator and puts it in for payment.
29.03	Example of No. 1:
During the week a workshop finished and dispatched four plans of 1,020 pairs each and460 pairs from plan 49
5 up to Saturday night. These 460 pairs will be taken into account when compiling the payroll, therefore, the employee will have 4,540 pairs on payroll, Naturally, next week when this plan is dispatched, those 460 pairs will notbe includedfor payrollpurposes’or, in other words only the rest of the plan is paid the following week if it is packed. The plans which are going to the payroll, even part of the plan, will be published by the Foreperson, so that the employee can make up his or her pay accordingly.
ARTICLE 30
Wages
30.01	Appendix ''A"and“B” and“C” are hereby made a part of this Agreement. The detailed Schedule of Wages will be made available to the Union.
30.02	The following regulations shall govern in respect to basic guaranteed hourly wages;
(a)	To qualify for basic wages of any category an employee shall work at Ieast60% of his or hertime at the operation belonging to such category.
(b)	If an operator works on several operations none of which takes 60% of his or her time, his or her guaranteed basic wages shall be balanced as per the following example:
Example:An operator is working on three operations: Class VI 33.3% of time Class VIII 33.3% of time Class IX 33.3% of time
The basic guaranteed hourly wage for such operator shall be balanced as for Category Class VIII.
50
(c)	If an operatorwill perform two or more operations with none cf them consumingfrom 34% to 60% of his or her time, he or she shall be covered by the basic guaranteedwages belongingto the higher category.
(d)	The time established by time and motion study methodsusedby the Company constitutethe time for the establishment of the employees on incentivejobs of such nature as correspond to the classification of basic above practice (a, b, c).
30.03	It is the Company's policy to keep the employees on incentivejobs cf such nature as correspondto the classification of basic wages. The Production Managerswilltransfer the present employeesto such jobs as quickly as possible. In such instances, however, where an operator isearningconsistently above his basic guaranteed wage in the lower class of operations and who is not paid “extra wages", the Company will not force him or her into another (new) job of higher classification.
(a)	If an operatorcoveredby basic guaranteed hourly wages iscalleduponbytheCompanytoperformsuch incentive operation which is lower than his/her basic guaranteed hourly wage classification, he/she shall be covered by his/her present basic guaranteed hourly wage classification.
(b)	Naturally his/her piece rate earnings shall come from piece rates established for such operation and he/she shall take a higher class piece rate incentive job at any time when the Company has such job for him or her.
51
Pay Day
30.04
Pay Day will be on Friday. The Company will deposit all employees wages directly into their bank accounts.
Night Shift Bonus
30-5	, ,
Thev Company will grant a night-shift bonus as an extra to other earnings of the employees who work regularly on night shift for a least one week. Such bonus will be accounted and paid weekly.
The shift bonus will be 27 cents for the second shift and 30 cents for the third shift, c .ifo.lat/k)
30.06 The basic guaranteed hourly wages are guaranteed to all employees covered by this Agreement and representtheir guaranteed hourly income for the working week according to the numbers of hours spent in the workshop.
i\ 0,30.07 If any employee arrives in the factory, without having been informed the previous day not to report *®ifor work, and finds no job to do, he or she is entitled to be paid half a Shift’s pay calculated at basic guaranteed hourly wages.
30.08	Every employee covered by the foregoing paragraph is to perform any job within his/her ability as directed by his/her Supervisor in case his or her usual job is not available.
30.09	When an operator is promotedfrom a job of one classification to a job having a higher classification, he/she will be entitledto full basic guaranteed hourly wages applicableto the newjob,accordingto the time established for it. as long as he/she works on that
n ot.r.	52
operation. When such person works fortwelve months onthejobcf higherclassificationhis/herstatus will be upgraded as established by this higher classification.
30.10	Occasionally, employees are requested to performwork on jobs unrelatedto shoe production on which wage rates have not been established due to the varied and unforeseen nature of the particularjob. When an employee is doing such work the flat hourly rate paid will be as follows: If the employee is not on layoff, pay will be average regular rate of last four week. If an employee is on layoff and is called in, he will receive the basic start rate for that job or a maximum of $7.00 per hour if the work does not fall within any current classification. If the job is onover-timetherate is to be time and one-half, times the $7.00 rate.
30.11	The Company will reimburse the Maintenance Employees up to $150 each per year for tools that have been damaged and the updating of present tools.
ARTICLE 31
Termination
31.01	This Agreement shall be in effect from October 4, 1999 to October 3, 2001.
31.02	Subject as hereinafter provided, this Agreement shall also continue from year to year after October3, 1998 unless either party gives notice in writing of its intention to terminate the Agreement or to enter into negotiationsfor the purpose of amending the Agreement within a periodof not morethan ninety days and not less than thirty days priorto October3, 2001.
53
31.03	If notice of intentionto amend is given in writing by either party as provided in Paragraph2, the consequent negotiations shall commence not later than twenty days after the date of such written notice, and if such negotiations do not result in agreement prior to the date of termination of this Agreement, then this Agreement may be extended by mutual agreement between the negotiating parties for such further time as may be necessary to complete negotiations.
31.04	This Agreement and all the terms and conditions thereof shall be subject to any proper legislation in regardthereto duly enacted by statute or regulation by the Governments of the Dominion of Canada and the Province of Ontario, and this Agreement shall, from time to time, be modified, extended, restricted and amended to give affect thereto.
54
cn
ai
APPENDIX" A
BASiC WAGES: (Incentive Base Rates)
BASIC RATES- EffectiveOctober4,1998 -1/2 of 1% increase to all rates and classifications BASIC RATES- EffectiveOctober4,1999-1% increaseto all rates and classifications EffectiveOctober4, 2000 -1% increaseto all rates and classifications Effective April 4,2001 -1% increaseto all ratesand classifications
	Start	Basic Hry.Rate	Start	Basic Hry.Rate	Start	Basic Hry.Rate	Start	Basic Hry.Rate
Class	Oct. 4, 1998		Oct. 4, 1999		Oct.	4, 2000	April 4,2001	
1	7.92	8.17	8.00	8.25	8.08	8.33	8.16	8.42
2	7.80	8.05	7.88	8.13	7.96	8.21	8.04	8.29
3	7.69	7.94	7.77	8.02	7.84	8.10	7.92	8.18
4	7.51	7.76	7,59	7.84	7.66	7.92	7.74	8.00
5	7.41	7.66	7.48	7.74	7.56	7.81	7.63	7.89
6	7.26	7.51	7,33	7.59	7.41	7.66	7.48	7.74
7	7.05	7.30	7.12	7.37	7.19	7.45	7.26	7.52
8	6.86	7.11	6.93	7,18	7.00	7.25	7.07	7.33
9	6.73	6.98	6.80	7.05	6.87	7.12	6.93	7.19
The guaranteed hourly rate forthose on incentive rates will be increased so that itwill be ten cents per hour higherthantheincentivebase rates.
1.
Ul
05
8.
9.
10
CVJ CO	IT) CD N
Job		Hrly. Rate	Hrly. Rate	Hrly. Rate	Hrly. Rate
	Start	Oct. 4,1998	Oct. 4,1999	Oct. 4, 2000	Apr. 4,2001
Leather Dispatcher To Dept. 405	12.27	12.33	12.45	12.58	12.71
Manipulators Rate	9.83	9.88	9.98	10.08	10.18
Cutting Leather	11.23	11.29	11.40	11.51	11.63
BuildingMaintenance Millwright	11.86	11.92	12.04	12.16	12.28
Janitor	8.81	8.85	8.94	9.03	9.12
Cleaner	8.38	8.42	8.51	8.59	8.68
Material Handier	9.36	9.41	9.50	9.60	9.69
(a) Bulk Mat. Hand. Material Handler,	12.04	12.10	12.22	12.34	12.47
Lift Truck Operator ElevatorOperator	11.65	11.71	11.83	11.94	12.06
Slug Maker	11.34	11.40	11.51	11.63	11.74
cn
	Job		Hriy. Rate	Hriy. Rate	Hriy. Rate	Hriy. Ra
		Start	Oct. 4,1998	Oct. 4, 1999	Oct. 4,2000	Apr. 4,2C
11.	Prepare& Deliver Chemicals	10.00	10.05	10.15	10.25	10.35
12.	Prepare Leather Uppers, 405	9.27	9.32	9.41	9.50	9.60
13.	CuttingDiemaker	8.78	8.82	8.91	9.00	9.09
14.	CafeteriaAttendant	8.38	8.42	8.51	8.59	8.68
15.	Mould Care Senior	9.75	9.80	9.90	10.00	10.10
16.	MouldCare	8.53	8.57	8.66	8.74	8.83
17.	Dispatch Socks	9.27	9.32	9.41	9.50	9.60
cn
oo
BATA DISTRIBUTIONCENTRE- FINISHED GOODS WAREHOUSING
Effective October 4,1998 increase ■ 1 /2 of 1 % EffectiveOctober4,1999 Increase-1% EffectiveOctober4,2000-1%
EffectiveApril4,2001 -1%
Oct. 4,1998 Hrly. Rate
18. Shipper, Shelver, Sealer, Receiver, etc.
Start	9.17
3 Months	10.15
6 Months	10.61
12 Months	11.38
24 Months	12.10
19.	Reboxing, Reshelving,Relabelling, Ticketing
Start	8.43
3 Months	9.33
6 Months	9.79
12 Months	10.14
20.	Claims Helper	9.32
Oct. 4, 1999	Oct. 4,2000	April 4,2001
Hrly. Rate	Hrly. Rate	Hrly. Rate
9.26	9.35	9.45
10.25	10.35	10.46
10.72	10.82	10.93
11.49	11.61	11.72
12.22	12.34	12.47
8.51	8.60	8.69
9.42	9.52	9.61
9.89	9.99	10.09
10.24	10.34	10.45
9.41	9.51	9.60
cn
co
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Effective October 4,1998 -1 /2 of 1 % increase
		Start	6 Mos.	12 Mos.	18 Mos.
1.	Toolmaker	17.76	18.30	18.60	18.90
2.	N/C Maintenance	17.35	17.66	17.95	18.30
3.	MaintenanceSpecialist	16.31	16.53	16.72	17.04
3.	Sewi ng Machine Spec.	16.31	16.53	16.72	17.04
4.	ElectricianJourneyman	15.38	15.60	15.80	16.08
4.	MaintenanceJourneyman	15.38	15.60	15.80	16.08
EffectiveOctober4,1999-1% increase
		Start	6 Mos.	12 Mos.	18 Mos.
1.	Tool maker A	17.94	18.48	18.79	19.09
2.	N/C Maintenance	17.52	17.84	18.13	18.48
3.	MaintenanceSpecialist	16.47	16.70	16.89	17.21
3.	Sewing Machne Spec.	16.47	16.70	16.89	17.21
4.	ElectricianJourneyman	15.53	15.76	15.96	16.24
4.	MaintenanceJourneyman	15.53	15.76	15.96	16.24
05
O
Effective October4,2000 -1 % increase
		Start	6 Mos.	12 Mos.	18 Mos.
1.	Toolmaker	18.12	18.67	18.97	19.28
2.	N/C Maintenance	17.70	18.01	18.31	18.67
3.	MaintenanceSpecialist	16.64	16.86	17.06	17.38
3.	Sewing MachineSpec.	16.64	16.86	17.06	17.38
4.	Electrician Journeyman	15.69	15.91	16.12	16.40
4.	MaintenanceJourneyman	15.69	15.91	16.12	16.40
		EffectiveApril 4.2001	-1% increase		
		Start	6 Mos.	12 Mos.	18 Mos.
1.	Toolmaker A	18.30	18.85	19.16	19.47
2.	N/C Maintenance	17.88	18.20	18.49	18.85
3.	MaintenanceSpecialist	16.80	17.03	17.23	17.56
3.	SewingMachne Spec.	16.80	17.03	17.23	17.56
4.	ElectricianJourneyman	15.85	16.07	16.28	16.57
4.	MaintenanceJourneyman	15.85	16.07	16.28	16.57
KEY OPERATORS
Oct. 4, 1998 Oct. 4,1999 Oct. 4, 2000 April 4,2001
Class	Start
1.	10.83
2.	10.58
3.	10.38
4.	10.20
5.	10.00
6.	9.79
7.	9.36
8.	9.14
9.	9.01
Hrly. Rate	Hrly. Rate
10.88	10.99
10.63	10.74
10.43	10.53
10.25	10.35
10.05	10,15
9.84	9.94
9.41	9.50
9.19	9.28
9.06	9.15
Hrly. Rate	Hrly. Rate
11.10	11.21
10.84	10.95
10.64	10.75
10.46	10.56
10.25	10.35
10.04	10.14
9.60	9.70
9.37	9.47
9.24	9.33
(Ji
to
C.O.L.A.
The Company will pay 25 cents per hour Cost of Living Allowance (C.O.L.A.) above the Provincial Mininum for all hours worked to all employees who have completed their probationary period. Effective Oct. 4,1995, the C.O.L.A. will be increased to 300 per hour.
PROBATION RATES
Probationary employees on incentive earnings will receive the same incentive rates as other employees calculated on the basic rate of their classifications. Their hourly guaranteed minimum until they have completed the probationary period will be 25 cents per hour less than the basic rate.
Non-Productive time as a result of colour changes on the Monoplax casting unitwill be paid at 120% of basic wage.
APPENDIX “B”
Classification I
Making Tops & Bottoms (Auto m/c) operator
Prepare and cut pile linings
Casting quality control
Line leader
Mixing compounds
Pull shoes from mould and check pre guillotine tops and disp. to cooling con.
Preparing compounds/master batches Banbury mixing Banbury sheeting off mill Banbury masticating
4	Roll operator
2 Roll grinding waste 60” mill
2 Roll warming/bend and sheet off/sulphur compounds.
2	Roll stretching
3	Roll operator
5	Roll prewarming and operator Pressing parts on large hydraulic press Splitting slabs - turner m/c operator Butting slabs, timesaver- operator feeder Cutting stitching insoles
Cutting textile uppers Stitching raised moccasin Cutting counterpockets Cutting quarterlinings
Cutting textile tongues - pockets Stitching welt on soles Moulding counters
63
Upper cutting - suede, calf, kid & reptiles
-	Split suede
-	nubuck patent, printed leather -kips, sides
-heel & platform covers
Toe lasting & ironing-thermo Roughing shoes
Outsole stitching, cut threads & welt
Edge trimming
Heel trimming
Receiving
Shipping
Classification II
Cut stitch insoles & insert insoles
Pulling shoe from mould, disp. to cooling conv.
Attach (nail) heel platform
Condux grinding
Cutting Rubber/baled crepe
Preparing compounds - assistant
2 Roll crush pale crepe for remilling
2 Roll crepe remilling/primary/comp 1 st man
Bottom 5 roll cutting off soles
Bottom cutting soles - (uncured & cured)
Bottom cutting heels - (uncured & cured) Folding- Machine
Cutting innerlinings, eyestays & undertongues Cutting socklining, heelpads
Cutting toecaps Cutting upper trims Cutting vamp linings Cutting nylon cord
64
Cutting crepe soles
Cutting crepe heels
Cutting synthetic soles/heels
Cutting rubber midsoles & slip soles
Heelseat last & ironing
Prepare and attach heels - inside
Scour Heels
Repair shoes in finishing Packing
Classification III
Last pre-assemble place to conveyor Nail platform to heel in shoe Banbury sheeting mill - assistant 3 Roll assistants (carrying & feeding) winder 2 Roll crepe & compo remilling “assistant” 2nd Trimming midsoles - cuttings trim sheets
Feed extruder
Cutting fibre insoles/heelseat Cutting fibre platforms Cutting boxtoes
Sole Moulding
Roughing soles (sleated) by hand
Moulding insoles Shelving
Classification IV
Fold lining
Pouring of plastisol (PVC) to moulds Press boots unlast check lining Material supply
65
Pressing parts on small lab press Splitting slabs - Assistant Sifting buffings
Wire brushing moulded soles-scouring/buffing
Trimming soles& heels m/c/hd Deflashing moulded soles Prepare & deliver all materials Folding- by hand
Edge and Heel Smooth (crepe soles)
Check repairs &to trolley Lacquering shoes (varnish)
Feathering edges Prepare soles/heels for plan Staple attach heels & platforms Upper cutting - small parts from waste Cutting leather linings - quarter & sock Clicking elastics
Examine, pack and dispatch shoes (leather)
Fancy sewing/free hand Fit linings & edge stitch Vamping
Prepare and attach insoles
Prepare material to conv., lasts, uppers, etc.
Attach uppers
Repair shoes in lasting section Hot air ironing
Cement shoes by m/c (pressure cement)
Lay and press soles Winding bobbins Lay and press heels Prepare soles/heels
66
Temper Feather crepe sheets Folder assistant
Prepare lasts, uppers & move trolleys Cutting rubber parts - clicker
Stitch around zippers (Monoplax)
Binding top edge ( Monoplax)
Prepare lasts and move trolleys
Cutting parts - by clicker
Cementing, sticking board sheets, slabs etc.
Fronting heels
Guillotine heel slugs (F. Cr.)
Scouring heels & platforms/heelbreast
Scouring crepe heels
Splitting feathercrepe heels (Spring)
Dip uppers at toes, steaming, mulling Brushshoes all over - polishing
Classification VI
Delivering cartons & contents to shops Join upper lining & roll (by hand)
Ironing shoes
Pull staples, and tacks and anils Mull uppers
Classification VII
Printing boxes-Markem Press Printing boxes-cemented Printing boxes-stitched 'rape liner seams Stitch insoles to liners
67
Check socks pack to baskets
Pour HPVC Heels hand gun, cement sheels as per
area drawing
Assist inserting socks
Insert and position socks to shell
Shadow spray heel and sole edge
Trimming tops
Heat seal zipper
Cement tops pull linings check inside
Check boots insert fillers
4 Roll - Assistant/books
Buttingslabs, timesaver- assistant takeoff
Numbering linings - m/c
Decal insoles - assemble (heat transfer m/c)
Preparing materials - separate operator
Dispatch & control material to conveyor
Skive counter
Sew in eyestays
Sew in insoles
Press counter pocket
Thermo fold edges
Examine & pack
Stitch backstraps& kicker Trimming bottoms Trim tops overflow m/c Packing
Checking (examine)
Skiving linings
Join upper lining & tongues (on jig)
Prepare & cement zippers
Prepare and cement fillers, insoles & soles Sew on fur cuff Trim tops
68
Examine & pack
Fit heels
Cementing & drying soles - margin Apply precemented welt to sole/midsole Skive butt soles heelseat Apply welt
Pretrim F.C. sole & heel Round trim soles Reduce wedge heels Skiving upper parts Embossing
Numbering uppers & linings (by machine)
Prepare & deliver uppers
Hi frequency weld assemble parts and control m/c dissamble components dispose by plan Taping Seams
Stitching decorations to uppers
Sewing in counters
Sew french binding 1st
Fold french binding
Cording upper parts
Joining toecap & vamp
Binding upper/parts
Sewing on backstrap kicker ballstrap
Fancy sew-on marking guide
Apply boxtoe (hotmelt/textile) Heat press
Join vamp & moccasin Stitching insoles Sew on instep straps Joining
Sew trim to upper Checking & packing
69
Dispatch & control sew. conv.
Cement shoes by hand Packing shoes
Classification VI II
Stitch tops Stitch bottoms
Snap wrap (corrugated) assemble boxes Pacing boxes - Stitched Pacing boxes - Cemented Tacking labels
Stitching backseams and frontseams
Prepare platform to table, cement shells, insert
platforms to shells
Attach bottoms
Tacking binding ends
Prepare cartons pack boots
Plan numbering (by machine)
Stamping - machine Marking - machine
Mark uppers (m/c)
Sew upper backseam/frontseam Sew counter zig zag Eyeletting
Premould toes
Prepare & cement uppers & edges Fitting decals
Cement & insert sponge insoles Prepare & Cement linings & tongue Join upper lining (zig zag)
Prepare & assemble buckle, pocket & strap units
70
Decal shoes
Roughing soles/midsoles-margin & surface
Cement soles - middles
Check & deliver soles
Assemble soles & heels
Check & deliver insoles
Precement welt
Spray paint sole unit
Check & deliver heels Splitting leather parts Edge stain spraying upper parts Marking upper parts (machine)
Perforating Heat press linings Cut auto strap
Prepares stamp socklinings Prepare & stamp heelpads Hi frequency weld - assemble parts Stitching backs & fronts Sewing linings (all)
Sewing eyestay's
Fit & sew in reinforcements, elastic etc.
Sew french binding 2nd
Sewing upper parts zig zag
Tack on quarter safes, tongues, straps
Stitching edges of parts
Sewing lining facings
Sewing in tongues/tack
Edge stitch parts - sandals/guide/piston
Tacking trims to upper
Staple decorations to uppers (staples)
Stapling buckles
Eyeletting
71
Lacing m/c Perforating
Rivetting straps Cement soles
Painting shoes - dressing, fillers
Check nails and repair
Cement & stick heelpads, sock, heelcushion
Spraying shoes
Repair and spotcheck
Attack toe rivet
Stamping
Label
Classification IX
Cementing and Sticking labels
Fit loops
Guillotine tops
Open zippers cut linings
Clean boots
Numbering - by hand
Marking - by hand
Decal insoles - disassemble (heat transfer m/c) Number counters/tongue - Plan & size Mark uppers (hd)
Rub backseam/frontseam Turn uppers (inside out & vice versa)
Pull uppers over lasts Fitting fillers
Clean shoes (spew-hand) flash Brush shoes all over Stamp plan No. by heat Lacing by hand
72
Fitting textile lining to tongues & straps
Pull uppers over lasts
Fitting fillers to shoes Washing shoes
Insert felt liners Lacing
Press soles, midsoles, heels B/u soles & heels from rack Remove soles from conveyor Marking upper parts (by hand)
Cut elastics etc. (by hand)
Make bows & decorations (by hand) Weaving
Cement & stick doubler, eyestays, elastic Rub down backs & front Pounding mocassin ends Apply liquid boxtoes
Assemble decorations to uppers (by hand) Buckling
Cementing or pasting by hand Cement sponge to sock Cement stick insert to kicker
Clean soles and toplifts Cleaning shoes
Lacing shoes (by hand) -buckling-cut gore
73
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
PROCEDURE FORTEMPORARY LAY-OFF
FOR MANUFACTURING AREA ONLY
Company (Supervisor) to post lay-off as soon as possible after the lay-off decision is made, but at least four hours notice before the end of the shift.
Temporary lay-off sheets in future should list the names of people or department as in the past, but should now also contain a statement that includes in the lay-off "all junior employees who are subsequently laid off as a result of employees exercising their seniority" (no further four hour notice required).
All employees who want to exercise their seniority and work will notify their supervisor of this at least two hours prior to the ending of the shift.
(We recommend that the Supervisor check with all their employees by that two hour time frame to ensure that we have all yEs and NO answers).This will allow the Supervisortime to plan theirwork accordingto the people and skills available.
By following this procedurewe will eliminate the need for employees to be laid off for one day before they exercise their seniority within the same shift.
However, when a laid off person is to replace someone on another shift, then the one day lay-off would still be required in order to notify the person who is being replaced.
74
The senior employees who choose to exercise their seniority will be offered a job, in order of their seniority, and to jobs within the division that they have previously successfully performed.
When an employee chooses not to exercise their seniority for the duration of thistemporary lay-off, and later this lay-off is extended, this employee would then again havethe rightto exercise their seniority for the balance of the lay-off.
The Supervisors should ensure that the Payroll Department and the Union are notified as to who is actually laid off. This can be done by forwarding the lay-off list with the changes.
75
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
1.	Inthe future, it may be necessary inthe Main Group Injection Moulding Department, to schedule a partial shift to maximize the utilization of equipment on Saturday and Sunday.
The Company and Union will meet to discuss this matter when this matter is to be implemented.
2.	If and when Bar Coding is introduced, then the Company would, on a trial basis, introduce the calculation of pay on a daily basis.
GENERAL
Any Article in the Collective Agreement with reference to foreman/lady to be changed to read "Foreperson".
Provide for more pay phones in the manufacturing plant (subject to there being no additional cost to the employer).
Provide for sunlife cheques to be put in sealed envelopes.
Providethat in case of a locker search, the employee shall be present when the search takes place.
OVERTIME IN TRENTON AND BELLEVILLE WAREHOUSES.
It is agreed between the parties that for the purpose of overtime only,theTrenton (SidneySt.)andBelleville warehouses shall be regarded as separate locations.
76
It is understood that overtime shall be offered by seniority to employees in the location where the overtime is required.
Further, if either of the above mentionedwarehouses are moved to another location, and/or more warehouse locations are added, this letter cf understanding shall apply to those locations.
The Companyagreesthatforthe Distribution Centres only, all vacancies for lifttruck training shall be posted and awarded by seniority, location and shift.
77
APPENDIX C
CONTINUOUSSHIFT PROGRAM FOR INJECTION MOULDING DEPARTMENT
The undermentioned numbered articles shall form part of this C.B.A.
Article #1
The Continuous Shift Program shall be exclusive to the Injection Moulding Department.
Article #2
Job Rotation between "the Operator and the Puller shall rotate every thirty (30) minutes, or as mutually agreed between said "Operator and Puller", or as production requires.
Article #3
Saturday and Sunday shall be classified as regular working days, paid at regular rates of pay, subject to any period of time on such days, wherein the Employee works over and above twelve (12) hours.
Article #4
Vacation, Bereavement or Statutory Holidays will be paidonthe basis of the shift beingworked at the time of the occurrence i.e. 8 hours pay for an 8 hour shift, 10 hours pay for a ten hourshift, 12 hourspayfora12 hour shift.
78
Article #5
Shift Premiumsfortwelve(12)hourshiftsshall be paid on the following basis.
Day Shift - 4 hours at 27 cents per hour Night Shift - 4 hours at 27 cents per hour 8 hours at 30 cents per hour
In the event that a ten f1 Of hour working schedule is implemented.the following criteria for the Shift Premium will apply.
27 cents per hour for hours worked between3 pm and 11 pm.
30 cents per hour for hours worked between 11 pm and 7 am.
Article #6
Attendance Bonus for twelve (12) hour shifts shall be paid at the rate of:
Day Shift- Five ($5.00) dollars per week, if qualified NightShift-Ten($10.00)dollars per week, ifqualified.
In the event of a change in the working schedule for the Injection Moulding Department, from a twelve hour working shift to a ten hour working shift, the Attendance Bonus shall be paid in the following manner:
Seven Dollars and Fifty Cents f$7.50t per week for both shifts, if qualified.
79
Article #7
Unless otherwise specified by the Employer, the Continuous Shift shall be a twelve hour a day, four week rotation as per example below. The hours of work shall be:
Day shift - 7 amto 7 pm Night shift - 7 pm to 7 am
12 SHIFT ROTATION														
#1	1 WEEK 1 |						WEEK 2							■
CREW	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	m	satH	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FFU	sat^^R
A	JL	0	X	X	D	D	El 49	X	X	D	D	X	X	IS 36
B	N	JL	X	X	JL	JL	in 48	X	X	JL	N	X	JL	D 36
C	X	X	0	D	X	X	D El	D	D	X	X	N	N	x
0	X	X	JL	JL	X	X	N HI	N	N	X	X	N	JL	~x~^RH
							■ ■							■
	I WEEK 3						I H WEEK 4 I							■
CREW	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FR1	sat^R	sun]	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FR)	sat^^R
A	N	JL	X	X	JL	JL	jTjffl	X	X	JL	N	X	X	D 36
B	D	0	X	X	JL	D	jt_^H	JL	X	D	D	X	X	jlKH
C	X	X	N	JL	X	X	TUM	JL	JL	X	x :	JL	JL	B!fl 48
D	X	X	D	D	X	X	p BH	D	D	JL	JL	D	D	D'
						I		■ ■							■ .
Inthe eventthe employerwishesto changethe above noted schedule, they shall give a minimum of two full weeks notice.
Article #8
Overtime will be paid for all hours worked over arid above the agreed shift duration.
In the event of absenteeism, overtime shall be offered on a voluntary basis to the incumbent on the shift to a maximum of four (4) hours (applicableto both before and afterthe shift).
80
Article #9
The followingselection process would be used should there be a shortfall in the schedule. The requisite criteria of seniority, skill and ability applies to each phase of this selection process beginning with: Phase 1:	Laid off Monplax Employees
Phase 2:	Monoplax division Employees
Phase 3:	Other laid off Employees
Phase 4:	Employees from within the Bar
gaining Unit
However, utilizingthis process would be on the basis of non-disruption of productionwith respect to phase 2 & 4.
Also, any shortfall of hoursof scheduling would not be viewed as overtime for Injection Moulding Department Employees, unless specifically requested. If Overtime i s required by the Employer,it will be offered firstly to Injection Moulding Department Employees by seniority.
Article #10
An employee who works more than twelve hours in a day shall be paid overtime rates for all hours worked over the said twelve hours. Irrespective of whether or notthe employeeworks all of his/her scheduledshifts in that week.
I neach fou r (4) dayforty-eight (48) hour work week an employee will receive 40 hours pay at regular rates and 4 hours pay at overtime rates.
In each three (3)daythirty-six(36)hourworkweekan employee will receive 40 hours pay at regular rates. Intheeventanemployeeisabsentfrom work for more than a shift, a shift, or less than a shift, he/she shall not
81
lose his/her overtime pay, however, any scheduled hours not worked inthe work week shall be deducted at the regular rates.
With the principle of resolving problems as soon as they arise, we agree to discuss the concerns brought to our attention. This will be done in a timely manner. This isaproblem resolution mechanism, which does not include termination of the continuous program.
Article #11
Rest Periods:The employer shall providewith paythe following rest periods without loss of scheduled production.
aftertwo (2) hours worked - one ten minute afterfour (4) hours worked - one ten minute after six (6) hours worked - one thirty minute after eight (8;hours worked- oneten minute afterten (10) hours worked- oneten minute
Article #12
The present Injection Moulding Machine Operators and Pullers shall be grandfathered into their present positions for start-up purposes only.
Note: Grandfathering of the above mentioned employees is not intendedto provide said employees with super seniority for lay-off purposes.
Article #13
The Employershall post a schedule of authority for all machine operators.
Article #14
Upon successful completion of initial posting, the employer shall post for a relief crew consistingof one
82
machine operator and one puller. Said relief crew shall be utilized for vacation and absenteeism occurrences.
Work required to be performed on any statutory holidayshallbe offered firstly to the incumbentsonthe scheduled shift and then to the relief crew.
In Witness Whereof and in full agreement thereof the parties hereto have caused their names to be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and representatives.
83
IN WITNESS HEREOF and in full agreementthereof the parties hereto have caused their names to be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and representatives.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL	NORIMCO
84