COLLECTI
NORIMCO
Division of Bata Industries Ltd.
and
UNITED FOOD&COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONALUNION FOOTWEAR DIVISION C.L.C. - A.F.L. - C.I.O.
LOCAL UNIONS 175/633
o October 3,1998
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
Absenteeism ................
Agreement not to Reduce
Rates.......................
Aim of Company .............
Allowances in Rates.........
Arbitration.................
Bargaining Unit.............
Beginner....................
Benefit Participation.......
Bereavement Pay.............
Bonuses-Schedule of.........
Break Period ...............
Bulletin Board.........I____
Calculating Pay.............
Call In.....................
Care of Machinery ..........
Classify Jobs...............
Clerical Errors.............
C.O.L, A. Appendix “A” .....
Collections, No.............
Co-operation ...............
Confidential Information....
Company Policy
Incentive Jobs..............
Continue Old Rate ..........
Cutters Job Description ....
Deduction of Union Dues.....
Dental Plan.................
Discharge Cases ............
Discrimination, No..........
Disputes ...................
Early Starting & Quitting...
Factory Seconds ............
Grievance Procedure.........
Group Incentive Bonus.......
Group Insurance ............
Government Legislation .....
Guaranteed Rate after 1 yr.
Guaranteed Hourly Rate......
Holidays....................
23 .
25 . 12 25 .
,,,,6
39
........9	.
...... 19 .
...... 17 .
26-27-28
...... 13
........5
...... 29
...... 23	.
...... 14
.......25 .
..*... 25
. 5 . 14 . 25 .
41-42
.. 23
..41-48
..... 12
.... 1
....14
....33
..31-32
48-	49
.. 25
. . . . 7
49-	53 	39
27-28
.....43
.. 45
61 . . .7
....27
.. 42
13-:
............. 51
............. 43
...............49
................4
...............35
.............. 14
............... 4
.............. 14
............25/39
.:.............48
...8 ................10-14
28 .................... 49
19	..................33-35
20	................... 37
30 ..................... 53
30 .................... 52
16 .................30-31
30 ... 25 28 ..
. 4 . . 19 ..
. 9 . .
. 4 . .
.....8.
■23 .. 25
Hourly Rated Jobs
\ppendix “A”........................................... 55-60
13
Hours of Work
.L.O. Introduction to Work
Study .....................
Incentive Earnings ........
Information, Piece Rates..
Injury, Seniority..........
Inspect Work...............
Insurance .................
Interdepartmental Transfer. .
Involvement in Labour
Disputes .............................6
Job Classification, App. "El” ...........
Job Postings ..........................11
Jury Duty &	Crown Witness . 17
Key Operators.............................
List of Officials......................2
Lock Out, No..........................6
Leave of Absence......................7
Lay-Off.................
Lunch Period............
Life Insurance .........
Late Starting...........
Lack of Materials.......
Letters of Understanding
Management Rights.......
Major Medical............
Machine Breakdown ......
Merit Increases ........
New Standards ..........
Night Shift Bonus ......
Nominal Roll............
Notify of Time Studies ..
Offences Voided .......................23
O.HJ.P................................. 19
Overtime............................... 21
Overtime, Lunch ....................... 13
Pay Day................................ 30
Pay for Unrelated Work ................30
Pension ..................................
Performing more than
one operation ......................... 30
25
...	25.......................44
...25 .................... 41-48
25 ....................41-48
11 ...................21-22
... 14 ..................... 27
...	19 ....................33-35
11-12.....................17-21
................. 7
..............62-72
............. 17-23
................32
........................ 59
2 ..................... 1
6	..7
7	. 9
1 1 ..................21-23
13 ..................26-27
19 ......................35
22 ..................... 39
24 ..................... 41
.....................73-74
,3	  2
19 ..................34-35
24	.
25 25 30 12 25
....... 40
....... 47
......44-46
....... 52
....... 24
....... 43
........40
....... 34
.....	38
....... 27
....... 52
....... 53
..... 36
51
Piece Rates . Plant Committee . .
.25 .....................41-42
..7 .........................8
Plant Rules.......................
Posting ..........................
Pregnancy Leave...................
Punching Time Card ...............
Purpose...........................
Rating Factor ....................
Recall ...........................
Recognition ......................
Red Circle Rates..................
Safety............................
Safety Committee ..................
Safety Equipment Supplied.........
Samples ...........................
Strike, No.........................
Seniority..........................
Seniority, Follow Work............
Seniority, for Stewards...........
Seniority, Hardship................
Seniority, on List ...............
Seniority, Re Foreman,
Union Officer.....................
Shifts............................
Sick Leave .......................
Special Consideration ............
Standard Output...................
Statutory Holidays................
Suggestions Welcome...............
Temporary Transfer................
Termination ......................
Twenty % over Standard ...........
Union Dues........................
Unfair Labour Practices...........
Union May Check Rates.............
Union May Record .................
Unit Chairperson Paid.............
Vacation .........................
Vision Care ......................
Wages Appendix “A”................
Waiting Time......................
Bata Distribution Centre Finished
Goods Warehousing App.”A”.........
Warnings (Absenteeism) ...........
Weekly indemnity..................
Work Factor ......................
......3 ....
... 11 .....
18......
13-28 ......
......1 . .
25 .....
... 11 ....
.... 2 .
....25 .... ... 10 ....
....10 ......
.... 10 ....
... 25 .....
...6 .......
... 11 ......
... 11 ....
....12 ....
... 11 ......
....11 ....
... 11 .... ... 13.... .... 18 .
... 12.....
... 25 ......
....16 ....
... 14 ... ...11 ....
... 31 .....
...25 .......
....I .......
......6.....
. . . 25 .... ....25 ...
......1 ...
.... 15 ... ....19 ....
24
23
19
25
2-4
17-23
33
25
. . . 1 41-45 .21-23
46-47
15-16
...16
15
...47
7-8
17-23
...20
...24
...17
.... 17
24
25
32-33
24
42-44
.30-31
... 27
...5-6
... 8
.... 44
....42
.....9
.28-30
...36
55-60
40-41
58
.39
34
44
ARTICLE 1
Purpose of Agreement
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to strengthen the mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees; to improve the machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
1.02	The governing factors throughout this Agreement shall at all times be the continuing safety of the corporate undertaking and the general welfare of those dependent thereon.
ARTICLE 2.
Recognition
2.01	Forthe purposeof this Agreement, the Company recognizes that the Union is the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for its warehouse and production employees located in Hastings, Northumberland and Prince Edward Counties, with the exception of the following classifications of employment which are not subject to the provisions of this Agreement, namely Department Managers, foremen, foreladies, Head Inspectors and Clerical Office Staff and Salaried Employees including Shoe Designers and Plant Guards and personscovered by subsisting Collective Agreements.
2.02	Bargaining Unit work will be done by Bargaining Unit personnel except for periods of instruction and in cases of emergency.
1
2.03	The Company will supply the Union with a list of the Department Managers and Foremen/ladies and any other persons acting in a supervisory capacity designating their appropriate title and area supervised.
ARTICLE 3
Reservation of Management Rights
3.01	The union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
a.	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged, and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and locations of plants, the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, methods and patterns of work, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineering and design of its parts to be incorporated in the products produced and issuing general regulations and plant rules dealing with conduct in the factory, specific duties and provisions for normal retirement. No grievance shall be considered which usurps the Management functions.
b.	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
c.	Hire, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees, provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion of transfer, or a claim that an employee has been improperly classified, discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with hereinafter provided.
d.	The Company reserves the right to immediately discharge an employee for the following specific causes:
(1)	Serious misconduct which, without limiting the 2
generality of the foregoing, shall include disobedience of orders of the Company or its representatives and all acts of violence such as striking a fellow employee or any member of the supervisory staff or vice versa.
(2)	Disregard of safety precautions tending to endanger the employee himself or herself or fellow employees or the Company’s property.
(3)	Smoking in the Company's plantsand compounds and loafing.
Smoking however, is permitted during working hours in the designated areas posted throughout the plant under the following conditions:
(a)	Any employee desiring to.have a smoke must notify his or her foreman/lady beforehand in order to keep production running.
(b)	All cigarette butts must be properly extinguished by the smoker and the premises where smoking is permitted must be kept clean.
(c)	This arrangement is made on the understanding that neither the production nor the safety in the plant will be adversely affected. This privilege could be withdrawn from any person abusing it.
(4)	Drinking, or being under the influence of liquor or unprescribed drugs while in the Company's plants or compound or bringing alcoholic beverages or unprescribed drugs on to such premises.
(5)	The use of abusive or threatening language to a fellow employee or any member of the supervisory staff.
3
(6)	Sabotage.
(7)	Punching of another employee's time card and late starting or early quitting.
(8)	Theft or dishonesty,
(9)	Manufacture or repair of personal property on Company's time or premises.
ARTICLE 4 Relationship
4.01	The Company agrees that there will be no discrimination, interference, restraint orcoercion practised by the Company or any of its representatives with respect to the employee because of his or her membership in or connection with the Union, and the membership in the Union by employees who are eligible to join will not be discouraged.
4.02	The Union agrees that there will be no discrimination, intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised upon employees of the Company by any of its membership or representatives, aridthattherewill be no Union activity, solicitation for membership or collection of dues on Company time, and no meetings on Company premises except with the permission of the Company.
4.03	The Company agrees to deduct Unions dues from the wages of the Union members every week, or when the wages are computed for payment. The procedure provided forthe duration of this Agreement will be as follows:
(a)	Every employee, whether present or future, shall 4
once he or she becomes a member of the Union, retain his or her membership in the Union during the life of this Agreement, unless he orshe is promoted by the Company to a job which excludes either membership of the Union or the payment of “Employees' Benefit Participation”. In case of such promotion the Company notifies the Union and the Union will forward to such employee a resignation card and/or release him from membership and any other obligation within four weeks.
(b)	The obligation of the Company to discharge an employee for failure to pay either the Union dues or monies cal led “Employees’ Benefit Participation” shall
arise only if, in the opinion of the Company, such employee could be promptly replaced by an equally competent employee.
(c)	A list of the members of the Union will be supplied by the Union to the Company forthwith after the execution of this Agreement, and such list shall be revised from time to time so as to be brought up to date, but in any event, and if requested by the Company, at least quarterly.
(d)	With reference to all employees covered by this Agreement and not members of the Union, the Company agrees that an “Employees’ Benefit Participation” as hereinafter provided will be established within four weeks from the signing of the Agreement as far as those employees are concerned, and within four weeks after employment as far as persons subsequently employed are concerned. Thereafter, as a condition of continuance in the Company's service and during the lifetime of this Agreement, such employees shallauthorize the Company to deduct from
5
their pay monies called “Employees' Benefit Participation” equivalent to the Union dues. The amount of such Participation shall be such sum as may from time to time be assessed by the Union on its members according to the constitution for general Union purposes.
(e)	It shall not extend to a special assessment which relates to special Union benefits, nor shall it include any entrance fee. Any employee covered by this Agreement shall have the right to become a member of the Union by paying the entrance fee and complying with the conditions and by-laws of the Union.The payment of the said “Participation” by an employee does not make such employee a member of the Union, nor shall it directly or indirectly imply that the employee must become a member thereof.
(f)	The amount thus collected by the Company will be remitted by the Company to the President of the Local Union within two weeks of its collection to the account as indicated by the president of the Local Union.
4.04	The Company agrees to have a Pay Clerk and the Local Representative of the Union meet for the purposes of passing on to the Union information pertaining to changes in engagements and dismissals and dues paid, and in turn to receive information from the Union regarding deductions of dues. The time of the meeting to be mutually arranged.
4.05	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as obliging the Company to operate a closed shop.
6
ARTICLE 5
Publicity
5.01	The Union may have the use of the bulletin boards in the Company's plants, to be located and designated for the purpose by the Company. It is agreed that the use by the Union of such bulletin boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon of only such notices as have received the approval of the Company priorto posting. The subject matter of all such notices shall be restricted to notices pertaining to recreational activities or notices of meetings.
“Collections in the Factory”
5.02	There shall be no collections nor solicitations of monies from the employees at any time nor for any purpose. The factory rules shall apply to any employee disregarding this prohibition and any money so collected must be returned to the donor.
ARTICLE 6
Strikes and Lockouts
6.01	The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strikes or other collective action that will stop or interfere with normal production, and that if any suck collective action should be taken, it will instruct its members to carry out the provisions of this Agreement and to return to work and perform their duties in the usual manner.
6.02	The Union agrees that it will not directly or indirectly involve any employee of the Company or the Company itself in any dispute which may arise between any other employer and the employees of such other employer.
7
6.03	The Company agrees that it will not support unfair labour practices under which it is understood that the company will not accept a job from a plant where a legal strike has broken out and the Company involved in the strike is sub-contracting its work elsewhere during the legal strike.
ARTICLE 7
Plant Committee
7.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to elect a Plant Committee to be composed as follows:
(a)	The Unit Chairperson, Unit vice Chairperson and two of its committee members to be elected from employees of any department of any plant covered by this Agreement - one committee per plant.
(b)	In principle, one Steward should represent forty to fifty people. Small departments with like processes will be amalgamated and will be sewed by one Steward.
(c)	The Maintenance group will be allowed a shop steward. They will also be permitted to have a representative at all future contract negotiations.
7.02	Each Steward of the said Committee will represent a definitely defined zone of the Company's operations. The zoning of the Plant for such purposes will be settled from time to time by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
7.03	Committee Representatives, with the approval of the Foreman/lady of the department where they are
8
employed, shall be permitted to leave their regular duties for a reasonable length of time to perform their duties in connection with this Agreement. If, in the opinion of the Company, more than a reasonable length of time shall have been taken by the Zone Steward or Committee Representative to perform their duties in connection with this Agreement, the Company may decline to approve payment to such Zone Steward or Committee Representatives for such excess time. Such refusal on the part of the Company may be made the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided. Average wages will be paid to the Unit Chairperson and Unit Vice Chairperson for all time spent on Union-Company business. Other Committee Representatives or Zone Stewards will receive only their Guaranteed Hourly Rate. The Union agrees to supply the Company with names of the employees constituting the Plant Committee, and will keep such list up to date at all times.
7.04	In principle, any Union official approaching any employee outside of his or her department in the plant to deal with him or heron Union business, shall notify his entry to the floor Manager or Foreman/lady in charge of the workshops or department. A welfare officer may be appointed to perform Union obligations not relative to this Agreement during working hours but not paid for by the Company provided such performance does not seriously affect output.
7.05	The Company will endeavour to grant leave of absence for Union members to go on Union business providing business conditions afford the opportunity. However, it may be necessary to only grant partial leave to the number of employees requesting such leave due to heavy production scheduling. Each individual case has to be discussed with the foreman/
9
lady or supervisor involved, and if the production needs are vital such leave of absence may not be granted.
ARTICLE 8
Grievance Procedure
8.01	If an employee has any complaint or question pertaining to the collective agreement which he or she wishes to take up with the Company, the employee shall confer with his/her immediate Foreman/lady. The Steward may accompany the employee if the employee requests his/her assistance.
8.02	The decision of the Foreman/lady shall be given within twenty-four hours or within any longer period which may be mutually arranged at the time.
8.03	Failing a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned, the matter shall be then deemed a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided:
8.04	Step No. 1:
The employee shall have the option to put his or her grievance verbally to his or her Foreman/lady with or without the assistance of a Shop Steward. If not satisfied with the settlement, then the grievance of the employee shall be reduced in writing on a standard form to be supplied as mutually arranged by the Union and the Company and signed by the Steward and employee, and will then be handed to the Foreman/ lady concerned, who shall give his or her decision in writing within twenty-four hours. The employee shall indicate the Article(s) of the Collective Agreement it is alleged have been violated. If still not settled, the grievance will be passed on to the Divisional Production Supervisor who will render a decision within forty-eight hours, or within any longer period which may be
10
mutually arranged at the time.
8.05	If this settlement of the grievance is not satisfactory to the employee, the written grievance may then be referred to the Plant Committee.
8.06	Step No. 2:
The plant committee will meet and discuss the grievance with a Committee representing the Management of the Company, consisting of a least the Personnel Manager, and Divisional Manufacturing Manager, and at this meeting any officer of the Union may be present, if his presence is requested by either the Union or the Management. At least three full days notice in writing shall be given to the Management prior to such a meeting, and unless mutually agreed upon, there shall be no more than one meeting in any one week. The Union will supply the Company with agenda of grievances to be discussed at grievance meetings.
8.07	If the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the Plant Committee by the joint meeting of the Plant Committee and the Management Committee, the grievance may be referred to Arbitration provided that it is a matter arising out of the administration of this Agreement.
8.08	Any joint meeting of the Plant Committee with the Management will commence one hour before the quitting time in the afternoon of the day arranged for such meeting. Any grievance meeting that requires the involvement of a non-Company person, e.g. a Union representative, will be held at a mutually agreeable time.
8.09	Step No. 3:
When either party of the Agreement desires to submit the grievance to Arbitration, written notice shall be
11
given to the other party formally stating the subject of the grievance, and at the same time nominating an Arbitrator. Before the nomination of such Arbitrator, the Company may obtain the services of an outside time and methods engineering expert to make a study of such case or cases which are connected with either the output on operations or time study methods. The Company will pay the full cost of employing such expert. The Union may obtain the services of a qualified time study expert for rechecking the standard output in dispute. The cost for employing such expert will be paid by the Union.
8.10	Within fourteen days after receipt of such notice, the other party shall name an Arbitrator. The period of fourteen days shall be used in cases dealing with output, piece rates and matters concerning the production. In all other cases, such period shall be shortened to seven days. An extension of the time limits may be mutually agreed.
8.11	The Arbitrators representing the two parties shall meet immediately, and if they fail to agree upon a settlement of the grievance within forty-eight hours after they have first met, then they will attempt to agree upon a Chairman of the Arbitration Board, and failing such agreement within three days, the Minister of Labourforthe Province of Ontario will be requested to name such a Chairman.
8.12	As soon as the Arbitration Board has been completed by the selection of a Chairman, it shall meet and hear the evidence and representations of both parties, and shall render a decision as soon as possible, and the intention being that all decisions shall be given within seven days after the Arbitration proceedings have commenced.
12
8.13	The decision of the Chairman of such Arbitration Board shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement.
8.14The Arbitration Board shall not have anyjurisdic-tion to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof norto give any decisions inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
8.15	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it, and the said parties will jointly bear the expenses of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
8.16	No grievance shall be considered by the Arbitration Board unless it has been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
8.17	All grievances which are older than six months shall be considered null and void.
8.18	Management Grievances
and Union Grievances
(a)	It is understood that the management may submit to the Union any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers or stewards, in the administration of this agreement, and if such a complaint by the management is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may be treated as a grievance and referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee.
(b)	A Union policy grievance, which is defined as an alleged violation of this agreement concerning the Union itself or all or a group of employees in the bargaining unit, may be brought forward by the Union
13
in writing at Step No. 2 of the Grievance Procedure at any time within seven (7) working days after the circumstances giving rise to such policy grievance occurred. If the policy grievance concerns a large group of employees working on more than one (1) operation or in more than one (1) department, then it shall be signed by the Local Union officers and stewards.
ARTICLE 9 Discharge Cases
9.01	A claim by an employee, that he or she has been unjustly discharged from his or her employment, shall be treated as a grievance, but a written statement of such grievance must be lodged with the Plant Committee and the Personnel Manager within three days after the employee ceases to work for the Company.
9.02	If the employee's claim is found to be justified, then he or she shall be reinstated in his or her employment with full compensation for time lost at the employee's average daily earnings over the four week period immediately preceding the date of dismissal and with no loss of seniority as established by this Agreement.
9.03	A beginner shall be an employee who is starting his employment with the Company. The Company, may at its discretion, assign a beginner to a higher category of payment and may also promote or discharge him/her during the probation period without following the procedure as outlined in Articles 9.01 and 9.02.
9.04	If an employee is transferred to a new department or division because his or her job is redundant,
14
then the employee will complete a thirty (30) day trial period in this area. Where the employee is unsuccessful, he shall be laid off.
ARTICLE 10 Safety Precautions
10.01 The Company will maintain adequate sanitary arrangements throughout the plant, including the proper supply of drinking water, cool and safe for drinking, and will provide proper safety devices and gibe proper attention to the elimination of any conditions of employment which are a hazard to the health and safety of the employees.
10.02	Where the nature of the task assigned to an employee requires the use of special equipment and particularly goggles orprotective clothing, such equipment or clothing shall be provided by the Company and such equipment must be used by the employees while performing a job for which such protection is needed. This shall not, however, include such items of clothing as smocks, coveralls, headdress, gloves. Gloves, however, will be provided bythe Company for work on open rubber mills and rubber presses. The said equipment shall likewise not include safety boots, except as hereinafter provided and similar items of personal clothing.
10.03	The Company reserves the right to formulate, publish and enforce from time to time regulations regarding:
(a)	The use and operation of machines, equipment and plant facilities.
(b)	The terms and conditions upon which special
15
equipment or clothing is issued to employees.
10.04The Union will encourage its members to make proper use of safety equipment provided by the Company. The practice of unsafe conduct on the job, horseplay, practical jokes and all such behaviour which threatens the safety and welfare of an employee or any of his or her fellow workers shall be considered as serious breach of the Company rules and will constitute reason for discharge.
10.05	Each steward or member of the Plant Committee will report any unsafe practices and deviations from the Company’s safety rules to his or her fore-man/forelady with a request for action.
10.06	In the interest of safety it has been agreed that in certain designated areas it will be compulsory to wear safety footwear. The Companywill upon proof of purchase pay up to $65 per year or $120 once every two (2) years towardsthe purchase of safety footwear. Thesedesignated areasare Departments301 -1,3012,647 and the Material Handlers and Lift Truck Drivers in Departments 191, 100, 431 and 420 and Leather Dispatchersand Manipulators. Also included are Quality Control, Material Supply, Mixers, Mould Care, Key Operator and Cutters in the Monoplax Division.
10.07	The Company agrees to make available to the members of the Safety Committee and the full time local union representative the 'Safety data sheets” dealing with chemical substances used in the plant.
10.08	All lost time accidents may be investigated by one Union and Company representative from the Health and Safety Committee for a reasonable period of time.
16
ARTICLE 11
Re: Posting, Promotion, Layoff, or Increase of Staff.
All employees when hired will be assigned to a Depart-mentwithin a Division. Theywill remain inthe assigned Department but will have the opportunity through job posting to move within the Division.
11.01	(a) Seniority - Seniority shall be defined as the length of continuous employment with the Employer in a division. The divisions forthe purpose of calculating seniority shall be: Monoplax, Leather, Warehouse, Maintenance and Division 100.
(b)	Service - Service shall be defined as the length of continuous employment with the Employer since last date of hire.
11.02	The parties agree with the reference to probationary employees, that:
(a)	All employees, until they have been employed by the Employer for 60 days worked, shall be probationary employees.
(b)	During the probationary period, the probationary employee shall have no seniority standing. Employ ees who have completed said probationary period and have been retained by the Employer at the expiration thereof, shall be credited with seniority back to the date of last hire.
11.03	Within thirty (30) calendar days of ratification and in January and July of each year thereafter, the seniority list, including the employees' seniority, service date and employment status (full-time or parttime) shall be posted in various departments and a
17
copy provided to the Union.
11.04	An employee shall, subject to any abridging provisions, lose his seniority in the following circumstances:
(a)	If he is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated:
(b)	If he resigns voluntarily:
(c)	If he is laid off for a period in excess of twenty-four (24) consecutive months:
(d)	If, following an indefinite or permanent lay-off, he fails to return to work within fourteen (14) calendar days after receiving notice to do so unless on reasonable grounds he is unable to do so. The employee shall be deemed to have received notice to return to work if the Employer sends him such notice by Registered Mail.
11.05	Vacancies, Job Posting, Promotions and Transfers:
(a) Where a job vacancy occurs or a new job is created which the Employer fills or intends to fill, it shall post a notice of such vacancy on all bulletin boards within seven (7) calendar days. Such posting shall be within a division and shall be for a minimum period of three (3) working days, and a copy of the notice shall be provided to the Union. The notice shall set out a description of the Job, the qualifications required of applicants for the job, the hours of work (shift) and the wage rate for the job. Any employee who is absent at the time a posting occurs, and who has made a request in writing prior to such absence, shall be considered for job postings occurring during the period of such absence. It is understood and agreed that there shall be no “standing” notice and
18
that a fresh notice must be given in advance of each leave granted.
(b)	In filling job vacancies, including promotions, the job shall be awarded within twenty-one (21) calendar days of the posting. The Employer shall be governed by the following factors, as between two or more applicants.
In filling any posted vacancy under the Article, the Company will considerthe requirementsand efficiency of the operations, the qualifications, skill andability of the individual to perform the normal required work and where these are relatively equal, seniority shall govern. If the job is not filled as a result of the job posting or no suitable applicants are received from within the division, the Company will review all letters on file from employees outside of the division and thereafter reserves the right to hire.
(c)	The vacancy resulting from the placing of the successful applicant in the position so posted will also be posted but any further vacancies may be filled by the employer without posting.
In the event that the successful applicant is unsatisfactory or wishes to return to his former job, he may be returned to his former job within thirty (30) days and the job filled without further posting. The Company will consider the other applicants when filling the vacancy.
In the event the employee is not able or does not wish to complete the training or trial period, or cannot satisfactorily perform the job following the training or trial period, he shall be returned to his former position, wage or salary rate, without loss of seniority; and any
19
other employee who has been promoted or transferred because of the rearrangement of position, will also be returned to his former position, wage or salary rate, without loss of seniority. Employees from the factory who are sent to the warehouse to work, will be paid at their average wage.
(d)	No employee shall be transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit without his consent. If an employee is transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit, he shall retain his seniority accumulated up to the date of leaving the unit, but will not accumulate further seniority. Such employee shall have the right to return to a position in the bargaining unit consistent with his seniority accumulated up to the date of transfer outside the unit.
(e)	No employee shall be transferred in excess of five (5) days to another position either within or outside their division without their consent. If a consenting employee is transferred to another position, they shall be returned to their former position within sixty (60) calendar days and any other employee affected by the transfer shall be returned to their former position without loss of wages or seniority.
Vacancies of more than 60 days must be posted except for replacements for sickness, compensation, leave of absence and temporary transfer.
(f)	An employee who, forthe convenience of the Company, is transferred temporarily to another job while work is available at his/her regular job, shall be paid while so employed at the rate of pay of the job to which he/she is transferred, or hisaverage earnings from his own job, whichever is greater.
20
An employee who is transferred temporarily to another job while no work is available at his/her regular job shall be paid while so employed at the rate of pay in the job to which he is transferred.
A temporary transfer is one where an employee is temporarily on loan to another department while still retaining their job in existing department.
(g)	New employees shall not be hired where there are employees on lay-off who have the ability to do the job. Employees from the factory that are sent to the warehouse to work, will be paid at their average wage. Employees who are temporarily laid off and want to work, when work isavailable at the Distribution Centres will receive the Distributions Centres start rates and progress through the Distribution Centre Wage Grid.
11.06 (a) IN A TEMPORARY LAY-OFF:
An employee who is laid-off forover 1 day may exercise his or her seniority in the same division providing they have previously successfully performed a job held by a more junior employee.
(b) Employees who have been laid-off and recalled to their job, shall maintain all their seniority rights and privileges according to the provisions established herein. In otherwords, the layoff will not interrupt such rights providing they will return to work within 48 hours after being called to work or have a serious reason for being unable to return to work or bring a doctor's certificate certifying their ability or disability to commence to work.
(c)	Seniority employees who have been laid off shall have the right to displace a probationary employee in other divisions.
(d)	If an employee bumps into another division they shall retain their seniority in their own division for twelve (12) months. If at the end of this time they have not been recalled to their own division their seniority will start from the first day worked in the new division.
11.07	PERMANENT LAY-OFF AND RECALL:
(An indefinite lay-off may become permanent as described in the Employment Standards Act 40-1 0.)
(a)	In the event of a lay-off, the following procedure will be followed:
i)	Probationary employees will be laid off first, then,
ii)	Seniority employees in the reverse order of their divisional seniority;
iii)	Seniority employees who have been laid off shall have the right to displace a probation
ary employee in other divisions;
iv)	It is understood that the remaining employees still working must have the ability to perform the normal requirements of the remaining jobs. Recall shall be in the reverse order of the above lay-off procedure.
(b)	The Employer shall notify employees who are to be laid off seven (7) calendar days prior to the effective date of lay-off, or award pay in lieu thereof, unless a greater period of notice is required by legislation, in which case such greater period of notice or pay in lieu thereof shall be given.
(c)	In the event of the closure of a division, employees may exercise their length of service to displace the most junior person in another division.
(d)	If an employee bumps into another division they
22
shall retain theirseniorityintheirown division for twelve
(12) months. If attheend of this time they have not been
recalled to their own division their seniority will start from the first day worked in the new division.
(e)	Employees shall be recalled in order of their divisional senioritywhen jobs become available within that division.
(f)	The Company will continue its present policy according to which laid off employees are first given the opportunity of recall (to any division) before new employees are hired.
(g)	(i) Where a temporary position becomes available, the Company will ask qualified employees, by seniority, to fill the vacancy. If the vacancy cannot be filled through this process the junior employee must fill the vacancy.
(ii) Temporary vacancies will not exceed sixty (60) calendar days. If the vacancy goes beyond the sixty (60) days the job must be posted.
ARTICLE 12 General
12.01	The aim of the Company, with the co-operation of the Union, will at all times be to endeavour to maintain fifty weeks of productive work yearly. When a reduction of working staff is necessary, the following procedure will be followed:
12.02	(a) Should changes in business conditions require a reduction in work, any such occurrence will be dealt with on a departmental basis, but a sincere and serious effort will be made to effect inter-departmental transfers. Prior to any lay-off, the Company
23
will inform the employeesconcerned by notice posted four working hours ahead of time.
(b)	Two (2) hours notice of a change in the start time of a layoff time shall be provided.
12.03	The Company shall note on each monthly dues print-out the employees who have retired, quit orwere dismissed.
12.04	Employees laid-off on account of shortage of work will have special consideration when an increase of staff is anticipated. Such consideration will be dealt with on a departmental basis with the possibility of inter-departmental transfers.
12.05	Seniority of Stewards: Members of the Plant Committee will have special consideration as to seniority in the event of a lay-off due to tack of work in their department. In any case, lay-off or discharge of a member of the Plant Committee may be effected only by the Personnel Manager or Production Superintendent.
12.06	A joint employee-managementcommittee composed of the three (3) representatives of both management and the union shall meet every three (3) months to discuss matters of mutual interest. Employees attending such meetings shall suffer no loss of earnings during regular hours. The union representatives will not be from the same department.
12.07	An employee may make known his wish to be transferred from one shift to another in writing to the Personnel Department for information purposes.
24
ARTICLE 13
Rules & Regulations Concerning WorkingTime 13.01 The regularworking timeconsists of eight hours
the Agreement. The regular starting and quitting time, as well as the luncheon period, is specified in the Agreement as well as the provisions for night shift and overtime work.
13.02	Every employee is required to be at their working place at starting time ready to commence his or her work. Nonadherance to this regulation shall be dealt with according to the specific provisions of the Agreement. The Company does not support any practice of some employees who are attempting to start earlier at work in order to pick up better work for themselves, or to accumulate work for themselves, thus depriving others of their share of the work.
13.03	The administration of this ruling is subject to the grievance procedure as per Article 8 of this Agreement. The Company will post a special notice in the plant concerning the starting and quitting regulations as per outlined in this paragraph.
13.04	Every employee is required to punch his or her time card before starting time and after the quitting time. Punching another employee's time card will be regarded by the Company as cause for dismissal.
13.05	The punch card serves as the basis for the payroll and every employee shalt use it according to the specific regulations provided for computation of wages. The Company will show to the proper Union officials of the Local concerned the punch card of an
in
25
employee whoapproaches the Union with a grievance concerning wages.
13.06	Shifts
The Company will operate a day shift and when necessary a night shift. Suchshifts may alternate from day to night shifts as may be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union from time totime in order to give the employees an opportunity to have a change.
13.07	Hours of Work
The working week will consist of forty hours, divided into five days of eight hours each.
Starting timeforthe day shift will be 7:30 a.m. Starting time for the evening and night shifts will be mutually agreed upon by Management and the Union. Employees at the Trenton (Sidney St.) Warehouse and in Dept. 410-1 will start the day shift at 7:00 a.m.
13.08	It is understood that the best utilization of machinery and equipment and the desirability of avoiding lost time will be the governing factor in the establishment of starting and quitting times for night shifts.
13.09	The Company will continue to allow employees a ten-minute rest period each working day during Company time. The rest period will be observed between 9:30 a.m. and 9:40 a.m.
13.10	HALF HOUR LUNCHES
Providing the half hour lunch period is not abused, the normal day shift on a regular working day will be as follows:
26
From 7:30 a.m. till 12:00 noon From 12:30 p.m. till 4:00 p.m.
The lunch breaks may be staggered in order to effectively utilize existing lunchrooms.
13.11	Lunch Period:
On the day shift, the employees shall be allowed a half hour for lunch, and on the night shift one half hour lunch - both on their own time.
13.12	If an operator is called upon to perform some job of short duration during the lunch period, he/she shall be guaranteed either half-hour work or half-hour pay, at overtime rate. Such overtime must be properly authorized by the Company on the time card.
ARTICLE 14
Maintenance of Output and Quality
14.01	The Union acknowledges the importance and need of maintaining a high standard of quality and production schedules. In order to carry out these obligations the Union agrees to:
(a)	Put forward every effort to maintain estimated production schedules. Every employee shall use such working methods and working arrangements as specified by the proper Company officials, The Company welcomes suggestions for improving methods of production and will encourage the same by rewarding those whose suggestions are accepted.
(b)	In order that only satisfactory work is passed on to the next operator, every operator, before commencing his/her operation is to inspect the work of his/her predecessors, and in case of doubt will consult the
27
Foreman/lady. It is understood that written specifications of an operation, or wherever possible a sample of an operation, will be given by the Foreman/lady to the operator where necessary in addition to the oral information and instructions.
(c)	Co-operate with the Management in having employees punch theirtimecards properly and to encourage employees to be at their place of work at starting time.
(d)	Co-operate with the Management to generally improve discipline, efficiency and morale.
(e)	Co-operate with the Management in stressing to the employees the necessity of their daily care of machinery and equipment and keeping the same clean and in good operating condition.
ARTICLE 15
Vacations
15.01
The Company will provide a two week plant shut down during the summer forthe Batawa manufacturing plant forvacation purposes.
The Company will post to notify the employees of the vacation scheduling by January 8th.
15.02	Annual vacations at the Distribution Centres will be staggered, as is currently practised using the January 15th and April 1 st time frames as listed above.
15.03	Every employee shall be granted a vacation pay pursuant to the Employment Standards Act of Ontario
28
as amended, or as hereinafter provided. For the purpose of calculation of the leave period, an employee’s year of service will be from week 27 to week 26 inclusive.
15.04	When an employee ceases to be employed, the Company will pay vacation with pay as entitled.
15.05	TWO WEEKS VACATION:
Employees with two months to one year (less one day) of service as of July 15 will receive one day per month annual vacation pay.
15.06	Employees with one to three years (less one day) of service as of July 15 will receive two weeks of annual vacation pay.
15.07	Employees with three but less than five years (less one day) of service as of July 15 will receive two weeks plus one day of annual vacation pay.
15.08	Employees with five but less than ten years (less
one day) of service as of July 15th will receive three weeks of annual vacation pay.
15.09	Employees with ten years but less than fifteen (less one day) of service as of July 15 will receive four week of annual vacation pay.
15.10	Employees with fifteen years service but less than twenty-five years (less one day) as of July 15 will receive four weeks and two days of annual vacation pay.
29
15.11	Employees with twenty-five years (and over) of service as of July 15 will receive five weeks of annual vacation pay.
15.12	In caseof lay-off, the employee does not lose his right to vacation entitlement, and further provided the lay-off does not last longer than one year. Leave of absence granted to an employee in order to undergo military training will be regarded as service with the Company for purpose of calculating leave due.
15.13	All employees entitled to two weeks annual vacation will receive four per cent of their actual total earnings in lieu of such vacations and vacation pay for three weeks at six percent and fourweeks at eight per cent. The additional vacation pay for each day is calculated at .4%
ARTICLE 16 Statutory Holidays
16.01	All employees who have completed their probationary period will be granted eleven statutory holidays annually.
16.02	The Statutory Holidays in respect of which
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Dominion Day, Labour Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, Victoria Day, Civic Holiday, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day (November 11 th), and a floating holiday. If any such day fallson otherthan a working day, The Companywill pay it as a Statutory Holiday.
16.03	In order to qualify for Statutory Holiday pay an employee must have completed the regularly scheduled shifts both immediately before and after such Statutory Holiday or when such Statutory Holiday is
30
payment will be made as indicated above will be the following:
actually observed excepting cases of leave of absence as herein provided or if the absence was due to a verifiedmedical reason.
During such leave, a statutory holiday will be paid only if the employee has worked at least one day in the preceding four week.
16.04	Floating Holiday
The eleventh Statutory Holiday will be called a floating holiday. In the event that Government legislates Heritage Day as a holiday, then this floating holiday will be held on this date. Otherwise, when Dominion Day falls on a Tuesday or Thursday, this floating holiday will be held between Dominion Day and the weekend.
Thescheduling of this holiday will be mutually agreed upon during the negotiation. The floating holiday will be held:
1996Tuesday, December 24 1997 Monday, June 30 1998Thursday, December 24
Nothing contained herein shall require the Company to give more than eleven holidays per year.
ARTICLE 17 PAID LEAVE Bereavement Pay
17.01	Bereavement pay will be paid to all and every 31
permanent employee having over 3 months continuous
service. The pay to be for 3 days in case of death of family members (husband, wife, child, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, fosterparents legally appointed by the courts). Payment will be made on the basis of 3 working days, the third baing the funeral. Should such days come on Saturday and Sunday, a minimum of two days shall be paid. The bereavement pay is to becomputed on basicguarantedd hourly wage. If an employee takes time off work to attend the funeral of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandchild, or grandparents, son-in-law and daughter-in-law he or she will be entitled up to one day’s pay.
17.01	(a) An employee will be allowed to save one (1) day from the above three (3) days provision if a spring interment is necessary.
Jury Duty and Crown Witness
17.02	When an employee has been summoned to serve on Jury Duty or as a Crown Witness, he/she will receive the difference between the average rate and that paid by the government for all regular time lost on such duties.
ARTICLE 18
Sick Leave Policy Without Pay
18.01	Any employee who is absent on sick leave for less than twenty-six weeks or for a specific length of time, whichever is the greater, except in cases of pregnancy, will have their job and service protected during this period. In cases of indefinite absence over twenty-six weeks for health reasons, the Company will grant a non-paid leave of absence for up to one
32
year. During this period the employee'sservice will be protected and the job, if available on his/her return, or shortly thereafter, will be held open for him/her. While it may not always be possible for the Company to guarantee an employee returning from an indefinite sick leave exactly the same job which he/she left, the Company will make every attempt to place the employee on his/her return in as similar a job as is possible, as quickly as possible. Extended sick leave will be recognized as such on presentation of a doctor’s certificate.
18.02	Maternity and parental leave will be given in accordance with the Employment Standards, Act. This may be extended to one year for verified medical reasons.
ARTICLE 19 Benefits
19.01	The following plan to be in effect only during the life of the present Agreement. All employees of the Shoe Division are required, as a condition of employment, to join the Group Insurance Plan established by the Company with a bona fide insurance company or companies and improved as per the schedule attached. Employees who are temporarily laid off oron approved leave will remain on the payroll and benefits list for a maximum of twelve (12) months. Upon receipt of the benefitcheque theemployee will pay up their outstanding premiums.
All new employees who have completed the probationary period will be eligible for these group insurance benefits, effective on the first pay period following 6 months from their date of hire (except Pension and Dental, which are explained elsewhere in this Agreement).
33
19.02	All insurance coverage will be as per the master insurance agreement as seen by the Union Executive on the appropriate date. The plan to be considered as part of this Agreement. The details are as follows:
19.03	Weekly Indemnities: The employees who are members of this group insurance plan are entitled also to the weekly indemnity payment:
The weekly Indemnity will be increased to the amount allowed by the Unemployment Insurance Act which is currently at 66 2/3% of wages to a maximum benefit allowed by the Unemployment Insurance per week.
19.04	Provides a weekly indemnity commencing the first day in case of hospitalization or accident, other than occupational, and on the 5th day in case of sickness, up to twenty-six weeks.
19.05	Computation of Weekly Earnings for Indemnity Payment:
Weekly earnings shall be based upon average earnings for given periods as hereinafter defined, rather than upon basic hourly rates. The average earnings shall be computed as follows:
19.06	On January 1st of each and every year, the categories shall be reviewed and each insured employee placed in one of the categories according to his or her Average Weekly Earnings. This shall be arrived at by taking the total earnings for the preceding calendar year and dividing it by the number of weeks worked in that year shown on the T4 form for that year.
19.07	Hospital Benefit: The cost of ward accommodation is paid plus semi-private room up to 180 days. If the costof premium for OHIP will behigherthan thepresent
34
participation of the employees, the Company will absorb such additional costs of the premium for the duration of this Agreement.
19.08	The Company will pay 100% of the premium cost of OHIP during the life of the present Agreement only.
19.09	Major Medical - $25 deductible per calendar year. Insurance Company pays 90% of remaining expenses, employees, 10%. Maximum payable $10,000 over three (3) years.
19.10	In addition to the above, all employees belonging to the Group Insurance Plan are covered by a Life Insurance policyfor$27,500 (Twenty-seven Thousand Five-hundred Dollars). The increased cost to provide this coverage will be shared equally by the Company and employee. Additional optional life insurance is available at cost to employees and their dependents, The cost for this coverage shall be paid for by the employee.
19.11	The cost of the Group Insurance Plan to be shared equally by the Company and employee.
DENTAL PLAN
19.12	The Company will provide a Dental Plan and pay 100% of the premium cost for eligible employees, the terms of which include, Blue Cross No. 9 or equivalent or better coverage. In July of each year, coverage is to be based on the previous year’s O.D.A.
Eligibility for the plan is 12 months service with the Company and with a 80-20 co-insurance or better. The Company will select the carrier.
35
PENSION PLAN
19.13	The Company will provide a Pension Plan for all employees in the bargaining unit, who have completed their probationary period as outlined in the Pension Agreement. This Pension Agreement provides that an employee who has completed 10 or more years of service will, upon normal retirement age, be entitled to a fully vested pension, at the rate of $16.00 per month times their credited years of service to Oct. 3,1996. EffectiveOct. 4th, 1996increaseto$17.00per month for all service from Oct. 4th, 1996. Effective Oct. 4th, 1997 increase to $20.00 per month for all service from Oct. 4th, 1997.
On termination in this Pension Plan, the vested monies will be transferable to the individual and it is life insured until then.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 7 of the Pension Plan, the Company agrees that during the term of the Collective Agreement, itwill contribute to the Pension Fund, not less than 26.5 cents as defined in Article 3.03 for each hour worked by a member as an employee.
VISION CARE
19.14	(a) All employees with more than six (6) months of senioritywill be eligible for prescription vision care of one hundred dollars ($100) per employee (not family) once every twenty-four months.
(b) The company will arrange for a card that provides a group discount of 20% off regularprice prescription and sun glasses, and 10% off sale priced prescription and sun glasses, for all family members.
36
ARTICLE 20
Government Legislation
20.01	Should Government legislation be enacted providing for increased medical, pension or other programs duplicating existing coverage, such additional coverage shall be subject to review with a view of preventing duplication in cost and/or coverage.
20.02	Should such legislated benefits be in excess of existing coverage, the Company will be liable for only the difference.
20.03	If as a result of any such legislated change the Company is no longer required to pay certain sums of money on behalf of employees it is hereby agreed that such monies will be used to provide equivalent wage increases or new benefits either of which shall be negotiated between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 21
Overtime
21.01	Overtime will only be permitted on a special permit signed by the Production Manager authorizing the individual to work and stating the number of hours of overtime authorized.
21.02	If, overtime is required, the employee will be paid on the basis of basic guaranteed hourly wage at time and one-half or in straight piece rate, plus one-half of basic guaranteed hourly wage, whichever is the higher. All overtime work will be governed by the “Employment Standards Act of Ontario”. An employee, in order to be eligible to work overtime must have completed a full shift of eight hours work.
21.03	No overtime work is permitted in excess of four
37
hours following the regular shift, except in cases of emergency.
21.04	If an employee is called upon to perform overtime work after or before the regular working shift, he will be guaranteed at least one hour of such work or one hour's pay at overtime rate.
21.05	In individual cases where overtime work is needed during the lunch period, employees called in for such job shall be guaranteed either one-half hour of work or one-half hour of pay, at overtime rate. When working during the lunch period each individual must take a half hour lunch break later.
21.06	On mutual agreement with the Union a regular job may be worked up to one-half hour before standard starting time or one-half hour after standard quitting time. Pay for such to be no less than one-half hour at overtime rate. Refusal to work this change in shift hours will not result in disciplinary action.
21.07	Any work performed in addition to regularly assigned hours, or any performed on the eleven Statutory Holidays: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Dominion Day, Labour Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, Victoria Day, Civic Holiday, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day (November 1 1th), Heritage Day (or equivalent). Saturdays and Sundays will be considered as overtime work except that, in case of night shift, only the shift that commences on the evening of a Statutory Holiday will be considered as overtime. The rate for overtime will be time and one-half of basic guaranteed hourly wages or in straight piece rate, plus on-half of basic guaranteed hourlywages, whichever is higher.
38
CALL-IN
21.08	When an employee in Maintenance is called in during his off hours to perform overtime work, he will be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours work or pay at the applicable overtime rate.
ARTICLE 22 Late Starting
22.01	For lateness up to three minutes, there shall be no penalty.
22.02	For lateness from four to eighteen minutes, the penalty shall be 15 minutes’ pay.
22.03	For lateness from nineteen to thirty-three minutes, the penalty shall be one half hour's pay.
ARTICLE 23
Absenteeism
23.01	If an employee is absent the whole normal working day without prior permission of the Company, or without notifying the Company before 9:30 a.m. on the first day of his/her absence, and upon his/her return to work is unable to offer the Company a satisfactory explanation of his/her absence, each such absence shall constitute an offence and the Company reserves the rightto impose the following penalties:
First Offence - - Warning.
Second Offence - - Suspension for three normal working days without pay Third Offence - - Discharge.
39
23.02	It is understood thatthis provision regulates also the early quitting and late starting in connection with breakperiods.This includes the 1 O-minute rest break, the lunch break, and the start or end of a shift.
Discipline
23.04	A Union Steward shall be present at all meetings where discipline is being handed out. When a steward for that specific department is not available, the Company will attempt to have another Union officer attend the meeting.
23.05	Disciplinary notices for absenteeism (AWOL) will be kept separate from other disciplinary action. These warnings shall be voided after twelve (12) clear months.
For all other warnings, progressive discipline, as outlined in article 23.01, will continue to be used. These warnings shall be voided after twenty-four (24) clear months.
ARTICLE 24
MACHINE BREAK DOWN AND LACK OF MATERIALS
24.01	In the event of machine breakdown and waiting for lack of materials, when the Company requires the employee to remain in the plant, other than as the result of flood, fire, power failure or other causes outside of the control of the Company, the operator affected shall notify the Foreman/lady immediately and the Foremen/lady will investigate the situation. If feasible, the Foreman/lady will assign the operator to another machine or job. During such transfer, the
40
operatorwill bepaidattherateofthatjoboronthe basis of Guaranteed Basic Wage whichever is the higher, however, if such transfer to work unrelated to shoe production as provided in Article 30.10 herein shall apply.
24.02	Should it not befeasible to provide the operator with anotherjob during such breakdown, the operator will be paid for waiting time in excess of ten (10) minutes per shift at basic wages according to classification, providing the operator meets the conditions of Article 24.04.
24.03	It is understood that in order to benefit under this clause the employee must have his time card initialled by the Foreman/lady of his/her department at the beginning and at the completion of the period of machine breakdown.
24.04	In order for any eligible employee to be paid for waiting time on a shift, the operator must first have experienced one (1) occasion of unpaid waiting time of not less than ten (IO) minutes duration.
ARTICLE 25
Incentive Earnings
25.01	In addition to the guaranteed hourly wages, the Company will continue to pay piece rates based on standard production minutes earned (S.P.M.) according to the system established. The main incentive earning for the employee is provided in piece rates.
25.02	It is understood that information about the individual output will be published atthe same time the
piece rates are published and thus made official and
41
operative. The appropriate Union officials may record the piece rates fortheirown information All rates are, and will be established by the appropriate Company officials using scientific time and motion study methods. This includes both the future piece rates and output standards as well as the re-checking of those rates which are now in existence, a task which has to be performed gradually. It is understood, however, that all such figures shall be treated at all times as the Company's confidential information which must not be divulged to outsiders.
25.03	It is understood that information about the individual output will be given at the same time the piece rates are published, and thus made official and operative. The appropriate Union officials may record the piece ratesfortheir own information. If they desire to do it after working hours, they should inform either the Personnel Manager and receive from them the usual permit to enter the respective department for that purpose. It is understood however, that all such figures shall be treated at all times as Company confidential information which must not be divulged to outsiders.
25.04	All piece rates are established with regard to the present methods of work, present machinery and equipment, and may be subjected to change with the changing methods, machinery and equipment. The piece rates shall be changed when there is a change in content of the work, in machinery, in equipment, in work layout, supply of work handled which the oper-atorcan deliver the required output. In every instance, such change will be done on the basis of thorough timestudies.
42
25.05	Standard output is established for each operation. It is not influenced by the number at the time, and such circumstances under of pairs which the individual workshop, conveyor or factory might be making per day.
25.06	When a new piece rate is set during such change, an operator would continue to receive for four weeks the old piece rate. During these four weeks all problems connected with the change must be settled and the new piece rate will come into effect beginning on the fifth week after the date put down on the Time Study Sheet.
25.07	The Union will be notified about such change at the time when the Time Studies are finished and the date on the Time Study Sheet will be considered to be the starting date for the four week period mentioned above.
25.08	The Time Study Sheet is completed when signed by the Costing Manager and the Production Manager with date affixed. Within two days from this date the new piece rate will be established and the Production Manager will pass on the information on the piece rate to the Department Union Steward or Chief Steward, including the information and date of completion of the Time Study the operator is entitled to four weeks at the old rate.
25.09	If the output established by such new Time Studies will not be higher than five per cent (5%), there will be not change in the old established piece rate.
43
Establishing Operating Standard Output and Piece Rates
To establish thestandard output on every operation the Company is using the Work Factor Time Study System. This system is well established on the North American Continent and used by the Company for about 20 years.
25.10	Basically the Work Factor Time Study System represents the combination of efficient industrial engineering in selecting the best ways available in the factory toperformthe workoperations and measuring all elements of each operation by mathematical time averages established by analysis of movements and/ or functions needed to perform the whole operation. This system resembles the mathematical tables used by the Insurance industry to establish both the premiums and reimbursements.
25.11	Other time study methods for measuring the Standard output of work (either “predetermined Time Study Methods” or “Stop Watch Methods”) can be used by the Union to check the findings on “Standard outputs”worked out by Company time study men using 'Work Factor” method. The Company agrees to recheck any operation with a stop watch which the Union has challengedthrough thegrievance procedure using the methods of time study as described by the I.L.O. in Geneva (in the book “Introduction to Workstudy”). In case of absolute disagreement on the Standards of output in a specific operation the Company agrees to submitthe case to arbitration which would decide which of the standards by either method is correct.
25.12	The Company agrees to build into the produc-
44
tion standards, established by Work Factor or stop watch methods, at least 15% time allowances. The Company also agrees to inform the operator before starting the Time Study in rechecking the output standards challenged by the Union in the grievance on his operation and immediately upon completion of the study inform him of the RATING FACTOR given him. The pertinent documents of such study shall be given to the worker or the Union.
25.13	A production standard one accepted shall not be changed except in the case where the Company makes a change in the material, tools, machines, method or design of an operation. A production standard once accepted shall not be changed merely because of a change in name or symbol, but only if such a change significantly effects the standard output.
25.14	The above procedures for changing standard output are based on the principle that any changes in standards shall permit the same incentive earnings as existed underthe accepted original standards.
25.15	The discovery of clerical errors in the computation of a standard output shall warrant an appropriate adjustment in that standard, but such errors shall be brought to the attention of the parties within six (6) months after the issuance of the standard.
25.16	The incentive earnings (piece rates) shall be established by adding to the guaranteed basic wage on any and every class of operation at least 20% and dividing such hourly earning by Standard output per production hour (60 minutes) because the 15% time allowance is built up into “Standard output”. The result
45
represents the piece rates. In instances where the Company, by means of comparing existing time studies with new time studies, using the methods provided for in the collective agreement, are able to prove to the Union that due to clerical errors or creeping change, certain rates have become out of line, such rates shall be changed under the following rules.
25.17	(a) Certain employees are currently receiving rates which are in excess of the specified rates which are called for in the Collective Agreement. Such rates are known as Red Circled rates, on a job, shall continue to do so for only as long as they perform such jobs. Any new or other employee who performs such jobs shall receive only the specified rate.
(b)	lt is understood that an employee currently performing a job on a Red Circled rate shall be permitted to continue such job so long as the job is being performed in that department or its successor and a job won't be removed from a department to avoid the payment of Red Circled rates,
(c)	Nothing herein shall restrict an employee from grieving a specified rate for a job which also has a Red Ci rcled rate for a maximum period of six (6) months from ratification or, if later, the first time any employee performs the job.
(d)	Employees performing jobs on Red Circled rates shall be entitled to the same increases in rates and base wages as other employees.
25.18	The Company agrees not to reduce the piece rate earning existing at the time of signing this agreement if the earning of operators are higher than 20% of the basic wages established by this agreement.
46
25.19	The time study men shall, when making any studyof individualoperation, insure that circumstances and conditions existing at the time of the study are properly representative of those which will exist in the future and record in sufficient detail on the appropriate observation sheet all circumstances and conditions pertaining to the operation so that the operation could if necessary be reconstituted in the future.
25.20	The incentive system is designed to give the employee an opportunity to earn a minimum of at least twenty per cent over and above the guaranteed hourly rates with standard output as established by the Work Factor time and motion study methods' in many cases the opportunity exists to earn even more according to the skill or effort requiredforthe performance of the job.
25.21	When a person is required to work on the production of samples the piece rate for such work will be double the normal rate for the operation,
25.22	All employees will be job classified when they have completed theirprobationary period. During such probation period the start rate will be 25 cents less than theclassification rate.
25.23	The Company reserves the right to pay even higher guaranteed basic wages to such employees who merit them on account of the output and quality of work delivered.
25.24	New positions when added to the bargaining unit will have the wages and benefits mutually agreed to at that time in writing.
47
25.25	Deductions for “B” pairs (factory seconds) will not be made if the defect is caused outside of the assembly unit.
ARTICLE 26
Development Bonus
26.01	In order to reward the employees in newly-established workshops, where production has not reached its standard output, a Development Bonus will be established.
26.02	Each such new workshop will have its own production plan showing the development of its output. The full Development Bonus will be paid in all instances where all factors, output and quality are progressing according to the development plan.
26.03	As a principle the Union will be informed by the Company about all regular bonuses paid to the employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 27
Other Bonuses
27.01	Realizing that higher wages, better quality of footwear and greater security of employment can be achieved and maintained only by maintaining the standard output of workshops, uniformity in quality of goods, and regular attendance, both the Union and the Company agree on the establishment of the following incentive bonuses for all employees in the production departments.
48
ARTICLE 28 Group Incentive Bonus
28.01	In orderto qualify for group incentive bonus any absence must be covered by an official leave of absence signed by the Division Production Manager, or produce a Doctor's certificate in case of sickness. The bonus will be paid in proportion to the number of hours worked.
28.02	It is agreed that failure to comply with the regulations relating to the punching of time cards could result in forfeiture of the bonus in respect of the period the employee was entitled to the bonus, without restricting the generality of Article 3 with respect tothe Reservation of Management Rights, (Dismissal of the employee for punching another employee’s time card).
28.03	The upper cutting regulations as formulated in the letter to the Union September 6, 1960 shall be applied as the job description of the cutters, while all bonuses for these jobs were incorporated into piece rates.
ARTICLE 29
Methods of Computing the Wages in the Finishing Room (conveyors etc.)
29.01	On all bottom conveyors of Departments 320 and 420, the pay will be calculated on the plans which are packed on the floor up to Saturday Midnight of each working week, meaning that at thattime, packed shoes will be counted, and even if the plan is not
49
completed, such part of the plan found packed on the floor will be counted in that week.
29.02	Sewing units, upperand bottom manipulation will continueto usethe present method of computing wages for payroll, which means that every Saturday Midnight is closing time for payroll, The Foreman/lady counts what has been produced by every individual operator and puts it in for payment.
29.03	Example of No. 1:
During the week a workshop finished and dispatched four plans of 1,020 pairs each and 460 pairs from plan 5 up to Saturday night. These 460 pairs will be taken into account when compiling the payroll, therefore, the employee will have 4,540 pairs on payroll, Naturally, next week when this plan is dispatched, those 460 pairs will not be included for payroll purposes’ or, in other words only the rest of the plan is paid the following week if it is packed. The plans which are going to the payroll, even part of the plan, will be published by the Foreman/lady, so that the employee can make up his or her pay accordingly.
ARTICLE 30 Wages
30.01	Appendix A” and “B" and “C” are hereby made a part of this Agreement. The detailed Schedule of Wages
will be made available to the Union.
30.02	The following regulations shall govern in respect to basic guaranteed hourly wages;
50
(a)	To qualify for basic wages of any category an employee shall work at least 60% of his or hertime at the operation belonging to such category.
(b)	If an operator works on several operations none of which takes 60% of his or her time, his or her guaranteed basic wages shall be balanced as perthe following example.
Example: An operator isworking on three operations: Class VI 33.3% of time Class VIII 33.3% of time Class IX 33.3% of time
The basic guaranteed hourly wage for such operator shall be balanced as for Category Class VIII.
(c)	If an operator will perform two or more operations with none of them consuming from 34% to 60% of his or her time, he or she shall be covered by the basic guaranteed wages belonging to the higher category.
(d)	The time established by time and motion study methods used by the Company constitute the time for the establishment of the employees on incentive jobs of such nature as correspond to the classification of basic above practice (a, b, c).
30.03	Itisthe Company’s policy to keep the employees on incentive jobs of such nature as correspond to the classification of basic wages. The Production Managers will transfer the present employees to such jobs as quickly as possible. In such instances, however, where an operator is earning consistently above his basic guaranteed wage in the lower class of operations and who is not paid “extra wages”, the Company will not force him or her into another (new) job of higherclassi-fication.
51
(a)	If an operator covered by basic guaranteed hourly wages is called upon by the Company to perform such incentive operation which is lower than his/her basic guaranteed hourlywage classification, he/she shall be covered by his/her present basic guaranteed hourly wage classification.
(b)	Naturally his/her piece rate earnings shall come from piece rates established for such operation and he/ she shall take a higherclass piece rate incentivejob at any time when the Company has such job for him or her.
30.04	Pay Day
Pay Day will be on Friday. The Company will arrange the distribution of pay cheques to the employees “one hour prior to quitting time.”
30.05	Night Shift Bonus
The Company will grant a night-shift bonus as an extra to other earnings of the employees who work regularly on night shift for a least one week. Such bonus will be accounted and paid weekly.
The shift bonus will be 27 cents for the second shift and 30 cents for the third shift.
30.06	The basic guaranteed hourly wages are guaranteed to all employees covered by this Agreement and represent their guaranteed income for the working week according to the numbers of hours spent in the workshop.
30.07	If any employee arrives in the factory, without having been informed the previous day not to report for
52
work, and finds no job to do, he or she is entitled to be paid half a Shift's pay calculated at basic guaranteed hourly wages.
30.08	Every employee covered by the foregoing paragraph is to perform any job within his/her ability as directed by his/her Supervisor in case his or her usual job is not available.
30.09	When an operator is promoted from a job of one classification to ajob having a higherclassification, he/ she will be entitled to full basic guaranteed hourly wages applicable to the new job, according to the time established for it, as long as he/she works on that operation. When such person works for twelve months on the job of higher classification his/her status will be upgraded as established by this higher classification.
30.10	Occasionally, employees are requested to per-, form work on jobs unrelated to shoe production on which wage rates have not been established due to the varied and unforeseen nature of the particularjob. When an employee is doing such work the flat hourly rate paid will be as follows: If the employee is not on layoff, pay will be average regular rate of last four week. If an employee is on layoff and is called in, he will receive the basic start rate for that job or a maximum of $7.00 per hour if the work does not fall within any current classification. If the job is on overtime the rate is to be time and one-half, times the $7.00 rate.
30.11	The Company will reimburse the Maintenance Employees up to $150 each per year for tools that have been damaged and the updating of present tools.
53
ARTICLE 31

ARTICLE 31 Termination
31,01	This Agreement shall be in effect from October 4, 1996 to October 3,1
31.02	Subject as hereinafter provided, this Agreement shall also continue from year to year after October 3, 1998 unless either party gives notice in writing of its intention to terminate the Agreement or to enter into negotiations for the purpose of amending the Agreement within a period of not more than ninety days and not less than thirty days prior to October 3,1998.
31.03	If notice of intention to amend is given in writing by either party as provided in Paragraph 2, the consequent negotiations shall commence not later than twenty days after the date of such written notice, and if such negotiations do not result in agreement priorto the date of termination of this Agreement, then this Agreement may be extended by mutual agreement between the negotiating parties for such further time as may be necessary to complete negotiations.
31.04	This Agreement and all the terms and conditions thereof shall be subject to any proper legislation in regard thereto duly enacted by statute or regulation by the Governments of the Dominion of Canada and the Province of Ontario, and this Agreement shall, from time to time, be modified, extended, restricted and amended to give affect thereto.
54
APPENDIX “A”
BASIC WAGES: (Incentive Base Rates)
BASIC RATES • Effective October 4,1996 Increase -1%
BASIC RATES - Effective October 4,1997 Increase-1%
(Piece Rates will be increased by the same percentages)
	Start	Basic Hry. Rate	Start	Basic Hry. Ra
	Oct. 4,1996		Oct. 4,1997	
Class 1	7.80	8.05	7.88	8.13
2	7.68	7.93	7.76	8.01
3	7.57	7.82	7.65	7.90
4	7.40	7.65	7.47	7.72
5	7.29	7.54	7.37	7.62
6	7.14	7.39	7.22	7.47
7	6.94	7.19	7.01	7.26
8	6.75	7.00	6.82	7.07
9	6.63	6.88	6.70	6.95
The guaranteed hourly rate for those on incentive rates will be increased so that it will be ten cents per hour higher than the incentive base rates.
W
10
Job	Hr!y. Rate	Hrly. Rate
1.	Leather Dispatcher	Start 12.03	Oct. 4,1996 12.15	Oct. 4,1997 12.27
2.	to Dept. 405 Manipulators Rate	9.63	9.73	9.83
3.	Cutting Leather	11.01	11.12	11.23
4.	Repairs Dept. 405 Building Maintenance	11.62	11.74	11.86
5.	Millwright Janitor	8.63	8.72	8.81
6.	Cleaner	822	8.30	8.38
7.	Material Handler	9.18	927	9.36
	(a) Bulk Mat. Hand.	10.01	10.11	1021
8.	Material Handler, Lift Truck Operator	11.80	11.92	12.04
9.	Elevator Operator	11.42	11.53	11.65
10.	Slug Maker	11.12	11.23	11.34
co
in
Job	Hrly. Rate	Hrly. Rate	
11. Prepare & Deliver	Start	Oct. 4,1996	Oct. 4,1997
Chemicals 12. Prepare, Leather	9.80	9.90	10.00
uppers, 405	9.09	9.18	9.27
13. Cutting Diemaker8.60	8.60	8.69	8.78
14. Cafeteria Attendant	8.22	8.30	8.38
15. Mould Care Senior	9.55	9.65	9.75
16. Mould Care	8.37	8.45	8.53
17. Dispatch Socks	9.09	9.18	9.27
rs-
in
BATA DISTRIBUTION CENTRE - FINISHED GOODS WAREHOUSING Effective October 4,1996 Increase -1%
Effective October 4,1997 Increase -1%
	Oct. 4,1996	Oct. 4,1997
	Hrly. Rate	Hrly. Rate
18. Shipper, Shelver, Sealer, Receiver,	etc.	
Start	9.03	9.12
3 Months	10.00	10.10
6 Months	10.46	10.56
12 Months	11.21	11.32
24 Months	11.92	12.04
19. Reboxing, Reshelving, Relabelling,	Ticketing	
start	8.31	8.39
3 Months	9.19	9.28
6 Months	9.64	9.74
12 Months	10.09	10.19
20.Claims Helper	9.18	9.27
co
ia
KEY OPERATORS
Oct. 4,1996	Oct. 4,1997
Class	Start	Hrly. Rate	Hrly. Rate
1.	10.61	10.72	10.83
2.	10.38	10.48	10.58
3.	10.18	10.28	10.38
4.	10.00	10.10	10.20
5.	9.80	9.90	10.00
6.	9.59	9.69	9.79
7.	9.18	9.27	9.36
8.	8.96	9.05	9.14
9.	8.83	8.92	9.01
The main function of Key Operators is to minimize delay-s by training, filling in and helping out where necessary, so that productivity and quality may be maximized to the benefit of all concerned. However, they will not exercise management functions.
o>
in
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Effective October7,1996-1%increase
	Start	6 Mos.	12 Mos.
1. Toolmaker	17.49	18.03	18.33
2. N/C Maintenance	17.09	17.39	17.69
3. Maintenancespecialist	16.07	16.29	16.47
3. Sewing Machine Spec.	16.07	16.29	16.47
4. Electrician Journeyman	15.15	15.36	15.56
4. Maintenance Mechanic	15.15	15.35	15.56
Effective October 7,1997-1% increase
	Start	6 Mos.	12 Mos.
1. Toolmaker A	17.67	18.21	18.51
2. N/C Maintenance	17.26	17.57	17.86
3. Maintenance Specialist	16.23	16.45	16.64
3. Sewing Machne Spec.	16.23	16.45	16.64
4. Electrician Journeyman	15.30	15.52	15.72
Maintenance Mechanic	15.30	15.52	15.72
Journeyman
18 Mos. 18.62 18.03 16.80 16.80
15.84
15.84
18 Mos. 18.81 18.21
16.96
16.96 16.00 16.00
o
CO
C.O.L.A.
The Company will pay 25 cents per hour Cost of Living Allowance (C.O.L.A.) above the Provincial Minimum for all hours worked to all employees who have completed their probationary period. Effective Oct. 4,1995, the C.O.L.A. will be increased to 30 cents per hour.
PROBATION BATES
Probatoinary employees on incentive earnings will receive the same incentive rates as other employees calculated on the basic rate of ttieir classifications. Their hourly guaranteed minimum until they have completed the probationary period will be 25 cents per hour less than the basic rate.
Non-Productive time as a result of colour changes on the Monoplax casting unit will be paid at 120% of basic wage.
CD
APPENDIX “B”
Classification I
Making Tops & Bottoms (Auto m/c) operator
Prepare and cut pile linings
Casting quality control
Line leader
Mixing compounds
Pull shoes from mould and check pre guillotine tops and disp. to cooling con.
Preparing compounds/master batches Banbury mixing Banbury sheeting off mill Banbury masticating
4	Roll operator
2 Roll grinding waste 60" mill
2 Roll warming/bend and sheet off/sulphur compounds.
2	Roll stretching
3	Roll operator
5	Roll prewarming and operator Pressing parts on large hydraulic press Splitting slabs - turner m/c operator Butting slabs, timesaver - operator feeder Cutting stitching insoles
Cutting textile uppers Stitching raised moccasin Cutting counterpockets Cutting quarterlinings
Cutting textile tongues - pockets Stitching welt on soles Moulding counters
Uppercutting - suede, calf, kid & reptiles
-	Split suede
-	nubuck patent, printed leather -kips, sides
-heel & platform covers
Toe lasting & ironing-thermo Roughing shoes
Outsole stitching, cut threads & welt
Edge trimming
Heel trimming
Receiving
Shipping
Classification II
Cut stitch insoles & insert insoles
Pulling shoe from mould, disp. to cooling conv.
Attach (nail) heel platform
Condux grinding
Cutting Rubber/baled crepe
Preparing compounds - assistant
2 Roll crush pale crepe for remilling
2 Roll crepe remilling/primary/comp 1st man
Bottom 5 roll cutting off soles
Bottom cutting soles - (uncured & cured)
Bottom cutting heels - (uncured & cured)
Folding - Machine
Cutting innerlinings, eyestays & undertongues Cutting socklining, heelpads
Cutting toecaps Cutting upper trims Cutting vamp linings Cutting nylon cord
63
Cutting crepe soles Cutting crepe heels Cutting synthetic soles/heels Cutting rubber midsoles & slip soles Heelseat last & ironing Prepare and attach heels - inside Scour Heels
Repair shoes in finishing Packing
Classification Ill
Last pre-assemble place to conveyor Nail platform to heel in shoe Banbury sheeting mill - assistant 3 Roll assistants (carrying & feeding) winder 2 Roll crepe & compo remilling “assistant” 2nd Trimming midsoles - cutting & trim sheets
Feed extruder
Cutting fibre insoles/heelseat Cutting fibre platforms Cutting boxtoes
Sole Moulding
Roughing soles (sleated) by hand
Moulding insoles Shelving
Classification IV
Fold lining
Pouring of plastisol (PVC) to moulds Press boots unlast check lining Materials supply
64
Pressing parts on small lab press Splitting slabs - Assistant Sifting buffings
Wire brushing moulded soles-scouring/buffing
Trimming soles& heels m/c/hd Deflashing moulded soles Prepare & deliver all materials Folding - by hand
Edge and Heel Smooth (crepe soles)
Check repairs & to trolley Lacquering shoes (varnish)
Feathering edges Prepare soles/heels for plan Staple attach heels & platforms Upper cutting - small parts from waste Cutting leather linings - quarter & sock Clicking elastics
Examine, pack and dispatch shoes (leather)
Fancy sewing/free hand Fit linings & edge stitch Vamping
Prepare and attach insoles
Prepare material to conv., lasts, uppers, etc.
Attach uppers
Repair shoes in lasting section Hot air ironing
Cement shoes by m/c (pressure cement)
Lay and press soles Winding bobbins Lay and press heels Prepare soles/heels
65
Temper Feather crepe sheets Folder assistant
Prepare lasts, uppers & move trolleys Cutting rubber parts - clicker
Stitch around zippers (Monoplax)
Binding top edge ( Monoplax)
Prepare lasts and move trolleys Cutting parts - by clicker Cementing, sticking board sheets, slabs etc. Fronting heels
Guillotine heel slugs (F. Cr.)
Scouring heels & platforms/heelbreast
Scouring crepe heels
Splitting feathercrepe heels (Spring)
Dip uppers at toes, steaming, mulling Brushshoes all over - polishing
Classification VI
Delivering cartons & contents to shops Join upper lining & roll (by hand)
Ironing shoes
Pull staples, and tacks and anils Mull uppers
Classification VII
Printing boxes-Markem Press Printing boxes-cemented Printing boxes-stitched Tape liner seams Stitch insoles to liners
66
Check socks pack to baskets
Pour HPVC Heels hand gun, cement sheels as per
area drawing
Assist inserting socks
Insert and position socks to shell
Shadow spray heel and sole edge
Trimming tops
Heat seal zipper
Cement tops pull linings check inside
Check boots insert fillers
4 Roll - Assistant/books
Butting slabs, timesaver - assistant takeoff
Numbering linings - m/c
Decal insoles - assemble (heat transfer m/c)
Preparing materials - separate operator
Dispatch & control material to conveyor
Skive counter
Sew in eyestays
Sew in insoles
Press counter pocket
Thermo fold edges
Examine & pack
Stitch backstraps & kicker Trimming bottoms Trim tops overflow m/c Packing
Checking (examine)
Skiving linings
Join upper lining & tongues (on jig)
Prepare & cement zippers
Prepare and cement fillers, insoles & soles Sew on fur cuff Trim tops
67
Examine & pack Fit heels
Cementing & drying soles - margin Apply precemented welt to sole/midsole Skive butt soles heelseat Apply welt
Pretrim F.C. sole & heel Round trim soles Reduce wedge heels Skiving upper parts Embossing
Numbering uppers & linings (by machine)
Prepare & deliver uppers
Hi frequency weld assemble parts and control m/c dissamble components dispose by plan Taping Seams
Stitching decorations to uppers
Sewing in counters
Sew french binding 1st
Fold french binding
Cording upper parts
Joining toecap & vamp
Binding upper/parts
Sewing on backstrap kicker ballstrap
Fancy sew-on marking guide
Apply boxtoe (hotmelt/textile) Heat press
Join vamp & moccasin Stitching insoles Sew on instep straps Joining
Sew trim to upper Checking & packing
68
Dispatch & control sew. conv.
Cement shoes by hand Packing shoes
Classification VIII
Stitch tops Stitch bottoms
Snap wrap (corrugated) assemble boxes Pacing boxes - Stitched Pacing boxes - Cemented Tacking labels
Stitching backseams and frontseams
Prepare platform to table, cement shells, insert
platforms to shells
Attach bottoms
Tacking binding ends
Prepare cartons pack boots
Plan numbering (by machine)
Stamping - machine Marking - machine
Mark uppers (m/c)
Sew upper backseam/frontseam Sew counter zig zag Eyeletting
Premould toes
Prepare & cement uppers & edges Fitting decals
Cement & insert sponge insoles Prepare & Cement linings & tongue Join upper lining (zig zag)
Prepare & assemble buckle, pocket & strap units
69
Decal shoes
Roughing soles/midsoles-margin & surface
Cement soles - middles
Check & deliver soles
Assemble soles & heels
Check & deliver insoles
Precement welt
Spray paint sole unit
Check & deliver heels Splitting leather parts Edge stain spraying upper parts Marking upper parts (machine)
Perforating Heat press linings Cut auto strap
Prepare & stamp socklinings Prepare & stamp heelpads Hi frequency weld - assemble parts Stitching backs & fronts Sewing linings (all)
Sewing eyestays
Fit & sew in reinforcements, elastic etc.
Sew french binding 2nd
Sewing upper parts zig zag
Tack on quarter safes, tongues, straps
Stitching edges of parts
Sewing lining facings
Sewing in tongues/tack
Edge stitch parts - sandals/guide/piston
Tacking trims to upper
Staple decorations to uppers (staples)
Stapling buckles
Eyeletting
70
Lacing m/c Perforating
Rivetting straps Cement soles
Painting shoes - dressing, fillers
Check nails and repair
Cement & stick heelpads, sock, heelcushion
Spraying shoes
Repair and spotcheck
Attack toe rivet
Stamping
Label
Classification IX
Cementing and Sticking labels
Fit loops
Guillotine tops
Open zippers cut linings
Clean boots
Numbering - by hand
Marking - by hand
Decal insoles - disassemble (heat transfer m/c) Number counters/tongue - Plan & size Mark uppers (hd)
Rub backseam/frontseam
Turn uppers (inside out & vice versa)
Pull uppers over lasts Fitting fillers
Clean shoes (spew-hand) flash Brush shoes all over Stamp plan No. by heat Lacing by hand
71
Fitting textile lining to tongues & straps
Pull uppers over lasts
Fitting fillers to shoes Washing shoes
Insert felt liners Lacing
Press soles, midsoles, heels B/u soles & heels from rack Remove soles from conveyor Marking upper parts (by hand)
Cut elastics etc. (by hand)
Make bows & decorations (by hand) Weaving
Cement & stick doubler, eyestays, elastic Rub down backs &front Pounding mocassin ends Apply liquid boxtoes
Assemble decorations to uppers (by hand) Buckling
Cementing or pasting by hand Cement sponge to sock Cement stick insert to kicker
Clean soles and toplifts Cleaning shoes
Lacing shoes (by hand) -buckling-cut gore
72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
PROCEDURE FOR TEMPORARY LAY-OFF
FOR MANUFACTURING AREA ONLY Company (Supervisor) to post lay-off as soon as possible after the lay-off decision is made, but at least four hours notice before the end of the shift.
Temporary lay-off sheets in future should list the names of people or department as in the past, but should now also contain a statement that includes in the lay-off “all junior employees who are subsequently laid off as a result of employees exercising their seniority” (no further four hour notice required).
All employees who want to exercise their seniority and work will notify their supervisor of this at least two hours prior to the ending of the shift.
(We recommend that the Supervisor check with all their employees by that two hour time frame to ensure that we have all YES and NO answers). This will allow the Supervisortime to plan their work according to the people and skills available.
By following this procedure we will eliminate the need for employees to be laid off for one day before they exercise their seniority within the same shift.
However, when a laid off person is to replace someone on another shift, then the one day lay-off would still be required in order to notify the person who is being replaced.
73
The senior employees who choose to exercise their senioritywill be offered a job, inorderoftheirseniority,
and to jobs within the division that they have previously successfully performed.
When an employee chooses not to exercise their seniority for the duration of this temporary lay-off, and later this lay-off is extended, this employee would then again have the right to exercise their seniority for the balance of the lay-off.
The Supervisors should ensure that the Payroll Department and the Union are notified as to who is actually laid off. This can be done by forwarding the lay-off list with the changes.
Letters of understanding
1.	In the future, it may be necessary in the new Main Group Injection Moulding Department, to schedule a partial shift to maximize the utilization of equipment on Saturday and Sunday.
The Company and Union will meet to discuss this matter when this matter is to be implemented.
2.	If and when Bar Coding is introduced, then the Companywould, on atrial basis, introducethecalcula-tion of pay on a daily basis.
74
OVERTIME IN TRENTON AND BELLEVILLE WAREHOUSES.
It is agreed between the parties that forthe purpose of overtime only, the Trenton (Sidney St.) and Belleville warehouses shall be regarded as separate locations.
It is understood that overtime shall be offered by seniority to employees in the location where the overtime is required.
Further, if either of the above mentioned warehouses are moved to another location, and/or more warehouse locations are added, this letter of understanding shall apply to those locations.
The Company agreesthatforthe Distribution Centres only, all vacancies for lift truck training shall be posted and awarded by seniority, location and shift.
75
IN WITNESS WHEREOF and in full agreement thereof the parties hereto have caused their names to be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and representatives
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 175/633
I. MILLER
M. WHltE
B. COAKLEY
NORIMCO
Division of Bata Industries Limited
M. O’NEILL
R. BOLTON
JULY 1997