NORIMCO
Division of Bata Industries Ltd.
and
LIMITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
UNION
, FOOTWEAR DIVISION CtLiCa * A«F.I/a * C.IaO« LOCAL UNIONS 175/633
From October 4.1992 to October 3,1994
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
From Oct. 4.1992 to Oct. 3.1994
between
NORIMCO
Hereinafter referred to as ‘The Company” and
United Food & Commercial Workers International UnionC.L.C.-A.F.L.-C.I.O., Local Unions 175/633
Hereinafter referred to as ‘The Union”
Now therefore, this Agreement witnesseth:
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
Absenteeism ............
Agreement not to Reduce
Rates...................
Aim of Company..........
Allowances In Rates.....
Arbitration.............
Bargaining Unit ........
23
25
12
.42
.44
25
BereavementPay.............
Bonuses-Scheduleof... 2
Break Period.....................13
Bulletin Board.............
Calculating pay............
Call In.........'................21
Care of Machinery..........
Classify Jobs..............
Clerical Errors............
C.O.L.A. Appendix “A” ...
Collections, No....................5
Co-operation .....................14
Confidential Information.. Company Micy
Incentive Jobs.............
Continue Old Rate..........
Cutters Job Description...........28
Deduction of Union Dues............4
Dental Plan................
Discharge Cases................... 9
Discrimination. No.........
Disputes ..................
25	 8 			46-51 	10-15
....2 			1
.. 9 			16-17
19			36
. 17 			 34
'-28			51-52
..13 			28
.. 5 			7
29			 52-53
21 			 41
14			29-30
25		49
.,25			 48
	.. 65
... 5 			7
..14		... 30
. 25			 45
. 30			54
. 25			46
. 28			 53
. . 4 			5-6
.19		38
.. 9 			 15
... 4			4
...8			10-15
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
Early Starting & Quitting	13-23...................27-43
Factoiy Seconds..............25	 51
Grievance Procedure............. 8	  10-15
Group Incentive Bonus........ 28...................52-53
Group Insurance.............. 19...................36-37
Government Legislation...... 20 ......................39
Guaranteed Rate After 1 yr.	.	30....................56
Guaranteed Eiourly Kate...... 30.................. 54-55
Holidays .......................16....................35
Hourly Rated Jobs
Appendix "A"......................................59-64
Hours of Work........................13
I.L.O. Introduction to Work Study................................25
Incentive Earnings ................. 25
Information, Piece Rates.............25
Injury, Seniority................
Inspect Work.....................
.29
36-38
Insurance ................
Interdepartmental
Transfer..................
Involvement in Labour
Disputes ...........................6
Job Postings ......................11
Jury Duty & Crown Witness 17
Key Operators........................
PA of Officials.....................2
Lock Out, No.........................6	 8
Leave of Absence.................... 7	 10
Lay-Off........................... 11	 23-25
Lunch Period ......................13	 29
Life Insurance.................... 19......................38
late Starting..................... 22	 42
Lack of Materials................. 24	 43-44
11-12..............20-22
....8
20-22
...35
...63
....1
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
Management Rights ........
Major Medical ............
Machine Breakdown.........
Merit Increases ,.........
New Standards.................
ISyt Shift Bonus............... 30
Nominal Roll....................12
Notify of Time Studies......... 25
Qffinoes Voided................ 23
O.H.I.P. .......................19
19............37-38
24	.............
25	.............
. .a.........
Overtime Overtime Pay Day
Pay lor Unrelated Wok Pension Performing more ttar
one operation Piece Rates Plant Committee Plant Rules
Posting.............
Pregnancy Leave Punching Time Card Purpose Eating Factor Recall Recognition.
Red Cfcle Rate Safety
Safety Committee
21 .............40-41
11 .............18-25
10.............16-18
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
Safety Equipment Supplied
Samples....................
Strike, No.................
Seniority..................
Seniority. Follow Work.
Seniority, for Stewards
Seniority, Flardship ..
Seniority, on List........... 11
Seniority, Re Foreman............
Union Officer ............... 11
Shifts ...................... 13
Sick Leave .................. 18
Special Consideration ....... 12
Standard Output.......
Statutory Flolidays ....
Suggestions Welcome Temporary Transfer ...
Termination ..........
TNventy % over Standard..... 25	.
Union Dues.................... 4	.
Unfair Labour Practices....... 6	.
Union May Check Rates...... 25	.
Union May Record............. 25	.
Unit Chairperson Paid ........ 7	.
Vacation .................... 15	.
Wages Appendix ‘A”...............
Waiting Time................. 24	.
Bata Distribution Centre Finished
Goods Warehousing App.'A*........
Warnings (Absenteeism)..... 23	.
Weekly Indemnity............. 19	.
Work Factor.................. 25	.
........ 28
......... 35
......... 36
........ 26
25 ........... 47-48
16............ 33-34
14............ 29-30
11 ........... 22-23
31 ........... 57-58
......... 50
........ 6-7
......... 8
......... 47
......... 45
....... 9-10
...... 30-33
......... 59
...... 43-44
........ 62
......... 42
.......... 36
.......... 46
ARTICLE 1
Purpose cf Agreement
1 .01 The general purpose of this Agreement is to strengthen the mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees: to improve the machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition cf grievances, and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
1.02	The governing factors throughout this Agreement shall at all times be the continuing safety of the corporate undertaking and the general welfare of those dependent thereon.
2.01 For the purpose of this Agreement, the Company recognizes that the Union is the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for its warehouse and production employees located in Hastings, Northumberland and Prince Edward Counties, with the exception of the following classifications of employment which are not subject to the provisions cf this Agreement, namely Department Managers, foremen, foreladies. Head inspectors and Clerical 'Office Staff and Salaried Employees including Shoe Designers and Plant Guards and persons covered by subsisting Collective Agreements.
2.02	Bargaining Unit work_wlll be. dona by Bargaining Unit personnel except for periods cf
ARTICLE 2
Recognition
instruction and in cases of emergency.
a
list cf the Department Managers and Foremen/ ladies and any other persons acting in a supervisory capacity designating their appropriate title and area supervised.
ARTICLE 3
Reservation of Management Rights 3.01 The union acknowledges that it is the excihmV tr function Kf the Company to:
a.	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged, and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and locations of plants, the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, methods and patterns sfkinds 2nd Iocs lions of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineering and design of its parts to be incorporated in the products produced and issuing general regulations and plant rules dealingwith conduct in the factory, specific duties and provisions for normal retirement. No grievance shall be considered which usurps the Management functions.
b.	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
c.	Hire, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees, provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion of transfer, or a claim that an employee has been improperly classified, discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with hereinafter provided.
d.	The Company reserves the right to immedi-
2
ately discharge an employee for the following specific causes:
(1)	Serious misconduct which, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall include disobedience of orders of the Company or its representatives and all acts of violence such as striking a fellow employee or any member of the supervisory staff or vice versa.
(2)	Disregard of safety precautions tending to endanger the employee himself or herself or fellow employees or the Company’s property.
(3)	Smoking in the Company’s plants and compounds and loafing.	^	^
Smoking however, is permitted during working hours in the washrooms throughout the plant under the following conditions:
(a)	Any employee desiring to have a smoke must notify his or her foreman/lady beforehand in order to keep production running.
(b)	All cigarette butts must be properly extinguished by the smoker and the premises where smoking is permitted must be kept clean.
(c)	This arrangement is made on the understanding that neither the production nor the safety in the plant will be adversely affected. This privilege could be withdrawn from any person abusing it.
(41 Drinking, or being under the influence of liquor or un-prescribed drugs while in the Company’s plants or compound or bringingalcoholic beverages or un-prescribed drugs on to such premises.
Participation” as hereinafter provided will be established within four weeks from the signing cf the Agreement as far as those employees are concerned, and within four weeks after employment as far as persons subsequently employed are concerned, Thereafter, as a condition of continuance in the Company's service and during the lifetime cf this Agreement, such employ vi ees shall authorize the Company to deduct frony their pay monies called 'Employees' Benefit Participation” equivalent to the Union dues. The amount of such Participation shall be such suiU as may from time to time be assessed by th“ Union on its members according to the constitui tlonlm-geiierdfinlioii-purposes.
[e) It shall not extend to a special assessment which relates to special Union benefits, nor shall it include any entrance fee. Any employee covered by this Agreement shall have the right to become a member of the Union by paying the entrance fee and complying with the conditions and by-laws of the Union.The payment of the said “Participation” by an employee does not make such employee a member of the Union, nor shall it directly or indirectly imply that the employee must become a member thereof.
The amount thus collected by the Company will be remitted by the Company to the President of the Local Union within two weeks of its collection to the account as indicated by the president of the Local Union.
The Company agrees to have a Pay Clerk and the Local Representative of the Union meet
b
from employees of any department of any plant
covered by this Agreement - one committee per plant.
In principle, one Steward should represent forty to fifty people. Small departments with like processes will be amalgamated and will be served by one Steward.
(c) The Maintenance group will be allowed a shop steward. They will also be permitted to have a representative at all future contract negotiations.
7.02	Each Steward of the said Committee will represent a definitely defined zone of the Company’s operations. The zoning of the Plant for such purposes will be settled from time to time by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
7.03	Committee Representatives, with the approval of the Foreman/lady of the department where they are employed, shall be permitted to leave weir regular duties for a reasonable length cf time to perform their duties in connectionwith this Agreement. If, in the opinion of the Company, more than a reasonable length of time shall have, been taken by Ah? Zone Steward or Committee Representative to perform their duties in connection with this Agreement, the Company may decline to approve payment to such Zone Steward or Committee Representatives for such excess time. Such refusal on the part of the Company may be made the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter pro-
11
Average wages will be paid to the Unit Chairperson and Unit Vice Chairperson for all time speaton. Union-Company business, Other Committee Representatives or Zone Stewards will receive only their Guaranteed Hourly Rate. The Union agrees to supply the Company with names of the employees constituting the Plant Committee, and will keep such list up to date at all times.
7.04	In principle. any Union official approaching any employee outside cf his or her department in the plant to deal with him or her on Union business, shall notify his entry to the floor Manager or Foreman/lady in charge cf the workshops or department. A welfare officer may be appointed to perfonn Union obligations not relative to this Agreement during working hours but not paid for by the Company provided such performance does not seriously affect output.
^^7.05 The Company will endeavour to grant leave \ of absence for Union members to go on Union *1 business providing business conditions afford <0 the opportunity. However, it maybe necessary to only grant partial leave to the number ofemploy-ees requesting such leave due to heavy production scheduling. Each individual case has to be discussed with the fonoman./Jady/u: su.perd*“« involved, and if the production needs are vital such leave of absence may not be granted.
ARTICLE 8 Grievance Procedure
8.0	1 Ii an employee has any complaint orques-10
tlon pertaining to the collective agreementwhich he or she wishes to take up with the Company, the employee shall confer with his/her immediate Foreman/lady. The Steward may accompany the employee if the employee requests his/ her assistance.
8.02	The decision of the Foreman/lady shall be given within twenty-four hours or within any longer period which may be mutually arranged at the time.
8.03	Falling a settlement satisfactory to the employee Concerned, the matter shall be then deemed a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided:
8,04	Step No. 1:
The employee shall have the option to put his or her grievance verbally to his or her Foreman/ lady with or without the assistance of a Shop Steward. If not satisfied with the settlement, then the grievance of the employee shall be reduced in writing on a standard form to be supplied as mutually arranged by the Union and the Company and signed by the Steward and employee, and will then be handed to the Foreman/lady concerned, who shall give his or her decision in writing within twenty-four hours. The employee shall indicate the Article(s) of the Collective Agreement it is alleged have been violated. If still not settled, the grievance will be passed on to the Divisional Production Supervisor who will render a decision within forty-eight hours, or within any longer period which may be mutually arranged at the time.
11
IF this settlement of the grievance is not satisfactory to the employee, the written grievance may then be referred to the Plant Committee.
8.06	Step No. 2:
The plant committee will meet and discuss the grievance with a Committee representing the Management of the Company, consisting of at least the Personnel Manager, and Divisional Manufacturing Manager, and at this meeting any officer of the Union may be present, if his presence is requested by either the Union or the Management. At least three Hill days notice in writing shall be given to the Management prior to such a meeting, and unless mutually agreed upon, there shall be no more than one meeting in any one week. The Union will supply the Company with agenda of grievances to be discussed at grievance meetings.
If the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction cf the Plant Committee by the joint meeting of the Plant Committee and the Management Committee, the grievance may be referred to Arbitration provided that it is a matter arising out of the administration of this Agreement.
8.08	Any joint meeting of the Plant Committee with the Management will commence one hour before the quitting time in the afternoon of the day arranged for such meeting. Any grievance meeting that requires the involvement of a nonCompany person, e.g. a Union representative, will be held at a mutually agreeable time.
12
8.09	Step No. 3:
When either party of the Agreement desires to submit the grievance to Arbitration, written notice shall be given to the other party formally stating the subject of the grievance, and at the same time nominating an Arbitrator. Before the nomination of such Arbitrator, the Company may obtain the services of an outside time and methods engineering expert to make a study of such case or cases which are connected with either the output on operations or time study methods. The Company will pay the full cost of employing such expert. The Union may obtain the services of a qualified time study expert for rechecking the standard output in dispute. The cost for employing such expert will be paid by the Union.
8.10	Within fourteen days after receipt of such notice. the other party shall name an Arbitrator. The period of fourteen days shall be used in cases dealing wifif output, piece rates and matters concerning the production. In all other cases, such period shall be shortened to seven days. An extension of the time limits may be mutually agreed.
8.1	i The Arbitrators representing the two parties shall meet immediately, and if they fail to agree upon a settlement of the grievance within forty-eight hours after they have first met, then they will attempt to agree upon a Chairman of the Arbitration Board, and failing such agreement within three days, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario will be requested to name such a Chairman.
13
8.12	As soon as the Arbitration Board has been completed by the selection of a Chairman, it shall meet and hear the evidence and representations of both parties, and shall render a decision as •snsmaypsassM'? .and Jhftjntsulisn. being that sill decisions shall be given within seven day s after the Arbitration proceedings have commenced.
8.13	The decision of the Chairman of such Arbitration, Board shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement.
8.14	The Arbitration Board shall not have any jurisdiction to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement. or to substituteanynew provisions in lieu thereof nor to give any decisions inconsistentwith the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
8.15	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it. and the said parties will jointly bear the expenses of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
8.16	No grievance shall be considered by the Arbitration, Board u-vAess it_has_been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
8.17	All grievances which are older than six months shall be considered null and void.
8.18	Management Grievances
and Union Grievances
(a) It is understood that the management may submit to the Union any complaint with respect
14
to the conduct of the Union, its officers or stewards, in the administration of this agreement, and if such a complaint by the management is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of ttw» jsinfetciry» ,nant.lft5i it masj be treated as a grievance and referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee.
(b) A Union policy grievance+ which is defined as an alleged violation of this agreement concerning the Union ltsel/or all or a group of employees in the bargaining unit, may be brought forward by the Union in writing at Step No. 2 of the Grievance Procedure at anytimewithin seven (7) workingdays after the circumstances giving rise to such policy grievance occurred. If the policy grievance concerns a large group of employees working on more than one (1) operation or in more than one (1) department, then it shall be signed by the Local Union officers and stewards.
ARTICLE 9 Discharge Cases
A claim by an employee, that he or she has been unjustly discharged from his or her employment, shall be treated as a grievance, but a written statement of such grievance must be lodged with the Plant Committee and the Personnel Manager within three days after the employee ceases to work for the Company.
9.02	If the employee’s claim is found to be justified, then he or she shall be reinstated in his or her employment with full compensation for time lost at the employee’s average daily eam-
15
ings over the four week period immediately preceding the date of dismissal and with no loss cf seniority as established by this Agreement.
A beginner shall be an employee who is starting his employment with the Company. The Company, may at its discretion, assign a beginner to a higher category of payment and may also promote or discharge him/her during the proba-timperiod without fo'Aovtog the procedure as outlined in Articles 9.0 1 and 9.02.
If an employee is transferred to a new department or division because his or her job is redundant, then the employee will complete a thirty (30) day trial period in this area. Where the employee is unsuccessful, he shall be laid off.
ARTICLE 10
Safety Precautions
The Company will maintain adequate sanitaiy arrangements throughout the plant, including the proper supply of drinking water, cool and safe for drinking, and will provide praper.saffitv/lfi'l rescand-ojtie	attention
to the elimination of any conditions of employment which are a hazard to the health and safety of the employees.
10.02	Where the nature of the task assigned to an employee requires the use of special equipment and particularly goggles or protective clothing, such equipment or clothing shall be provided by i/fe'v-ompany-ana‘kircrr equipment
16
must be used by the employees while performing a job for which such protection is needed. This shall not, however, include such items of clothing as smocks, coveralls, headdress, gloves. Gloves, however, will be provided by the Company for work on open rubber mills and rubber presses. The said equipment shall likewise not. include safety boots, except as hereinafter provided and similar items of personal clothing.
Companyreserves the right to formulate, publish and enforce from time to time regulations regarding:
(a)	ITie use and operation of machines, equipment and plant facilities.
(b)	The terms and conditions uponwhich special equipment or clothing is issued to employees.
10.04 The Union will encourage its members to make proper use"f safety equipment-provided by the Company. The practice of unsafe conduct on the job. horseplay. practical jokes and all such behaviour which threatens the safety and welfare of an employee or any of his or her fellow workers shall be considered as serious breach cf the Company rules and will constitute reason for discharge.
Each steward or member of the Plant Committee will report any unsafe practices and deviations from the Company’s safety rules to his or her foreman/forelady with a request for action.
17
In the interest cf safety it has been agreed that in certain designated areas it will be compulsory to wear safety footwear. The Company will upon proof of purchase pay up to $50 annually towards the purchase cf safety footwear. These designated areas are Departments 301-1, 301-2, 647 and the Material Handlers and Lift Truck Drivers in Departments 191.100, 43 1 and 420 and Leather Dispatchers and Manipulators. Also included are Quality Control, Material Supply, Mixers, Mould Care, Key Operator and Cutters in the Monoplax Division.
10.07	The Company agrees to make available to the members of the Safety Committee and the fulltime local union representative the "Safely data sheets" dealing with chemical substances used in the plant.
10.08	All lost time accidents maybe Investigated
by one Union and Company representative from the Health and Safety Committee for a reasonable period cf time.
ARTICLE 11
Re: Posting, Promotion, Layoff, or Jncrease of staff.	'in k-j
All employees when hired Department within a Dlvlsfori. They will remain in the assigned Department but will have the opportunity _______________________________
the Division.
11.0 1 (a) Seniority - Seniority shall be defined as the length of continuous employment with the Employer in a division. The divisions for the purpose of calculating seniority shall be: Mono-18
plax. Leather. Warehouse, Maintenance and Division 100.
(b) Service - Service shall be defined as the length of continuous employment with the Employer since last date of hire.
The parties agree with the reference to probationary employees, that:	_ ^
*8-1*060
(a)	M employees, until they have been employed by the Employer for 60 davs worked, shall be probationary employees.
(b)	During the probationary period, the probationary employee shall have no seniority standing. Employees who have completed said probationary period and have been retained by the Employer at the expiration thereof, shall be credited with seniority back to the date of last hire.
11.03	Within thirty (30)calendar days of ratification and in January and July of each year thereafter, the seniority list, including the employees’ seniority, service date and employment status (full-time or part-time) shall be posted in various departments and a copy provided to the Union.
abridging provisions, lose his seniority in the following circumstances:
(a)	If he is discharged forjust cause and is not
reinstated:
(b)	If he resigns voluntarily:
19

(cl If he is laid off for aneriod in excess cf twelve (12)consecutive months:	'
If, following an indefinite or permanent layoff, he fails to return to work within fourteen calendar days after xereJying notice to-do so unless on reasonable grounds he is unable to do so. The employee shall be deemed to have received notice to return to work if the Employer sends him such notice by Registered Mall. Employees shall keep the employer informed of his or her current address.
(a)	Where a job vacancy occurs or a new job is created which the Employer fills or intends to fill, it shall post a notice of such vacancy on all bulletin boards Will till seven (7) calendar days. Such posting shall be within a division and shall be for a minimum period of three (3)working days, and a copy of the notice shall be provided to the Union. The notice shall set out a description of the Job, the qualifications required of applicants for the job, the hours of work (shift) and the wage rate for the job. Any employee who is absent at the time a posting occurs, and who has made a request in writing prior to such absence, shall be considered forjob postings occurring during the period of such absence. It is understood and agreed that there shall be no "standing" notice and that afresh
given in advance of each leave granted.
(b)	In filling J^h yarnncl^, Inaudlhg promotions, the job sh&U awaraM^wfffitat^enty-one (21)calendar days cf the posting. The Employer shall be governed by the following factors,
20
and
as between two or more applicants, *
In filling any posted vacancy under the Article,
the Company will consider the requirements and efficiency of the operations, tne qualifications, skill and ability of the individual to perform the normal required work and where these are relatively equal seniority shall govern. If the job Is not fffled'as a result or me job posting or no suitable applicants are received from within the division, the Company will review all letters on file from employees outside of the division and thereafter reserves the right to hire.
(c)	The vacancy resulting from the placing cf the successful applicant in the position so posted will also be posted! bicA'any luthier-vacancies may be filled by the employer without posting.
In the event that the successful applicant is unsatisfactory or wishes to return to his former job, he may be returned to his fonnerjob within thirty (30) days and the job filled without further posting. Ttys. Company nil? consider the other applicants when filling the vacancy.
In the event the employee is not able or does not wish to complete the training or trial period, or cannot satisfactorily perform the job following the training or trial period, he shall be returned to his former position, wage or salary rate, without loss of seniority: and any other employee who has been promoted or transferred because of the rearrangement of position, will also be returned to his former position, wage or salary rate, without loss of seniority.
(d)	No employee shall be transferred to a position
21
outside the bargaining unit without his consent. If an employee is transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit, he shall retain his seniority accumulated up to the date of leaving the unit, but will not accumulate further seniority. Such employee shall have the right to return to a position in the bargaining unit consistent with his seniority accumulated up to the date of transfer outside the unit.
fejNo employee shall be transferred in excess of five (5) days to another position either within or outside their division without their consent. If a consenting employee is transferred to another position, they shall be returned to their former position within sixty (60) calendar days and any other employee affected by the transfer shall be returned to their former position without loss of wages or seniority.
Vacancies cf more than 60 days must be posted except for replacements for sickness, compensation, leave of absence and temporary transfer.
(11.13) An employee who, for the convenience of the Company, is transferred temporarily to another job while work is available at his/her regular job, shall be paid while so employed at the rate of pay of the job to which he/she is transferred, or his average earnings from his own job, whichever is greater.
An employee who is transferred temporarily to another job while no work is available at his/her regulaijob shall be paid while so employed at the rate of pay in the job to which he is transferred.
22
A temporary transfer is one where an employee is temporarily on loan to another department while still retaining their job in existing department.
(0 New employees shall not be hired where there are employees on lay-off who have the ability to do the job.
11.06 (a) IN A TEMPORARY LAY-OFF: L? t~ f
An employee who is laid-off for over 1 day may fxerr-Aayhfenrher seniority In the same division
providing they have previously successfully perforated ajob held by a morejunior employee.
(b) Employees who have been laid-off and recalled to thehjob. shall maintain all their seniority rights and privileges according to the provi-
layoff will not interrupt such rights providing they will return to work within 48 hours after being called to work or have a serious reason for being unable to return to work or bring a doctor's certificate certifying their ability or disability to commence to work.
(c) Seniority employees who havi'tJeerTlaid off shall have the right to_dlsplae<a probationary employee in other divisions.
If lployee bumps into another division they shall retain their seniority in their own division for twelve (12) months. If at the end of this time they have not been recalled to their own division their seniority will start from the first day worked in the new division.
23
11.07 PERMANENT LAY-OFF AND RECALL
(An indefinite lay-off may become permanent as described in the Employment Standards Act 4010.) '
(a) In the event of a lay-off, the following procedure will be followed:
1) Probationary employees will be laid off first,
ii) Seniority employees in	se order of
their divisional seniority: hi) Seniority employees who have^been laid off shall have the right to distolare a probation aiy employee in other divisions: iv) It is understood that the remaining employ ees still working must have the ability to perform the normal requirements of the re malningjobs. Recall shall be in the reverse order of the above lay-off procedure^'?
(b)	The Employer shall notify employees who are to be laid off seven (7) calendar days prior to the effective date of lay-off, or award pay in lieu thereof, unless a greater period of notice is required by legislation, inwhich case such greater period of notice or pay in lieu thereof shall be given.
(c)	In the event of the closure of a division, employees may exercise their length cf service to displace the most iunlor person in another division.
If an employee bumps into another division they shall retain their seniori in their own
then,
division for twelve (12)months.
at the end of
24
this time they have not been recalled to their own division their seniority will start from the first day worked in the new division.
Employees shall be recalled in order of their divisional seniority when jobs become available within that division.
(!) The Company will continue its present policy according to which laid off employees are first given the opportunity of recall (to any division) before new employees are hired.
(g) (i) Where a temporary position becomes available, the Company will ask qualified employees, by seniority, to fill the vacancy. If the vacancy cannot be filled through this process the junior employee must fill the vacancy.
(ii) Temporary vacancies will not exceed sixty (60) calendar days. If the vacancy goes beyond the sixty (60) days the job must be posted.
ARTICLE 12 General
12.01 The aim of the Company, with the cooperation of the Union, will at all times be to endeavour to maintain fifty weeks of productive work yearly. When a reduction ofworking staff is necessary, the following procedure will be followed:
(a)	Should changes inbusiness conditions require a reduction in work, any such occurrence will be dealt with on a departmental basis,
25
but a sincere and serious effort will be made to effect inter-departmental transfers. Prior to any
lay-off, the Company vil inform the employees concerned by notice posted four working hours ahead of time.
(b)	Two (2) hours notice of a change in the start time of a layoff time shall be provided.
The Company shall note on each monthly dues print-out the employees who have retired. quit or were dismissed.
12.04 Employees laid-off on account ofshortage of work will have special consideration when an increase of staff is anticipated. Such consideration will be dealt with on a departmental basis with the possibility of inter-departmental trans-
12.05 Seniority of Stewards: Members of the

tas to seniority in the-event of a lay-off due to lack of work in thelrdepartment In any case, lay-off or discharge of a member of the Plant Committee
may be effected only by the Personnel Manager or Production Superintendent.
12.06Ajointemployee-managementcommittee
composed of the three (3) representatives ofboth management and the union shall meet every three (3) months to discuss matters of mutual interest. Employees attending such meetings shah suffer no loss of earnings during regular hours. The union representatives will not be from the same department.
fers
26
12.07	An employee may make known his wish to
be transferred from one shift to another in writing to the Personnel Department for information purposes.
ARTICLE 13
Rules & Regulations Concerning Working
Time
hours per shift less the 10 minute break pei^xl as specified in the Agreement. The regular starting and quitting time, as well as the luncheon period, is specified in the Agreement as well as the provisions for night shift and overtime work.
13.02	Every employee is required to be at their working place at starting time ready to commence his or her work. Nonadherance to this regulation shall be dealt with according to the specific provisions of the Agreement. The Company does not support akiy practice tfi some employees who are attempting to start earlier at work in order to pick up better work for themselves, or to accumulate work for themselves, thus depriving others cf their share cf the work.
13.03	The administration of this ruling is subject to the grievance procedure as per Article 8 of
this Agreement. The Company will post a special notice in the plant concerning the starting and quitting regulations as per outlined in this paragraph.
Every employee is required to punch his or her time card before starting time and after the quitting time. Punching another employee’s time 27
card will be regarded by the Company as cause for dismissal.
punch card serves as the basis for the payroll and every employee shall use it according to the specific regulations provided for computation of wages. The Companywill show to the proper Union officials cf the Local concerned the punch card of an employee who approaches the Union with a grievance concerning wages.
Shifts
The Company will operate a day shift and when necessary a night shift. Such shifts may alternate from day to night shifts as may be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union from time to time in order to give the employees an opportunity to have a change.
13.07	Hours of Work
The working week will consist of forty hours, divided into five days cf eight hours each. Starting time for the day shift will be 7:30 a.m. Starting time for the evening and night shiftswill be mutually agreed upon by Management and the Union.
13.08	It is understood that the best utilization cf machinery and equipment and the desirability of avoiding lost time will be the governing factor in the establishment of starting and quitting times for night shifts.
13.09	The Company will continue to allow employees a ten-minute rest period each working day during Company time. The rest period will
28
be observed between 9:30 a.m. and 9:40 a.m.
13.10	HALF HOUR LUNCHES
Providing the half hour lunch period is not abused, the normal day shift on a regular working day will be as follows:
From 7:30 a.m. till 12:00 noon From 12:30 p.m. till 4:00 p.m.
The lunch breaks may be staggered in order to effectively utilize existing lunchrooms.
13.11	Lunch Period:
On the day shift, the employees shall be allowed a half hour for lunch, and on the night shift one
half hour lunch - both on
tonthelr ov
own time.
If an operator is called upon to perform some job of short duration during the lunch period, he/she shall be guaranteed either halfhour work or half-hour pay, at overtime rate. Such overtime must be properly authorized by the Company on the time card.
ARTICLE 14
Maintenance cf Output and Quality The Union acknowledges the importance and need of maintaining a high standard of quality and production schedules. In order to
cany out these obligations the Union agrees to:
(a)Put forward every effort to maintain estimated production schedules. Every employee shall use such working methods and working
29
arrangements as specified by the proper Company officials. The Company-welcomes suggestions for improving methods of production and will encourage the same by rewarding those whose suggestions are accepted.
(b)	In order that only satisfactory work is passed on to the next operator, every operator, before commencing his/her operation is to inspect the work of his/her predecessors, and in case of doubt will consult the Foreman/lady. It is understood that written specifications of an operation, or wherever possible a sample of an operation, will be given by the Foreman/lady to the operator where necessary in addition to the oral information and instructions.
(c)	Co-operate with the Management in having employees punch their time cards properly and to encourage employees to be at their place of work at starting time.
(d)	Co-operate with the Management to generally improve discipline, efficiency and morale.
(e)	Co-operate with the Management in stressing to the employees the necessity cf their daily care cf machinery and equipment and keeping the same clean and in good operating condition.
ARTICLE 15
Vacations
Improve Customer Service and delivery by having Annual Vacations staggered in a similar manner, currently practised at the Distribution-
30
Centre. This would be beneficial to employees by giving them greater flexibility to choose the timing of their vacations, according to their personal preference. This would ensure that a core gmnrinf experienced people would be available during peak production periods to satisfy our customers’ needs.
Article 15 - Vacations. In order to schedule individual vacations the employee will submit their requested weeks in writing to their Supervisor by January 15th.
The Company will review all requests and schedule vacations, within the Department, according to seniority and ensuring that all employees who are entitled to two weeks vacation will be able to take two weeks during the summer months if so desired.
The balance cf their vacation would be arranged on a mutually agresafcte. basis.
The Company will inform the employees of their vacation schedule as soon as possible but not later than April 1st
The Company will respond within one week if the vacation is requested to be before April 1st.
Every employee shall be granted a vacation pay pursuant to the Employment Standards Act of Ontario as amended, or as hereinafter provided. For the purpose of calculation of
the leave period, an employee’s year of service will be from week 27 to week 26 inclusive.
15.04	When an employee ceases to be em-31
the Company will pay vacation with pay as entitled.
15.05	Employees with two months to one year (less one of service as of July 15 receive
one day per month annual vacation pay.
#/£P
15.06	Employees with one to three years (less
one day) of service as of July 15 will receive two weeks cf annual vacation pay.
ol ov I
15.07	Employees with three but less than five years (less one day) of service as of July 15 will receive two weeks plus one day of annual vacation pay.
15.08	Employees with five but less than ten years (less one day) of service as of July 15 will receive three weeks of annual vacations pay.
10 Q V*
osr o3
15.09 Employees with ten years but less than fifteen (lessone day) of service as of July 15 will receive four weeks of annual vacation pay.
is oH l
15.10 Employees with fifteen years service but less than twenty-five years (less one day) as of July 15 will receive four weeks and two days of annual vacation pay.
15.11	Employees with twenty-five years (and over) of service as of July 15 will receive five weeks of annual vacation pay.
In case of lay-off, the employee does not lose his right to vacation entitlement, and further provided the lay-off does not last longer than one year. Leave cf absence granted to an
in-law, father-in-law, foster parents legally appointed by the courts). Payment will be made on the basis of 3 working days, the third being the funeral. Should such days come on Saturday and Sunday, only one bereavement day shall be paid. The bereavement pay is to be computed on basic guaranteed hourly wage. If an employee takes time off work to attend the funeral of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law or grandparents, he or she will be entitled up to one day's pay.
Jury Duty and Crown Witness £
When an employee has been summoned to serve on Jury Duty or as a Crown Witness, he/ she will receive the difference between the average rate and that paid by the government for all regular time lost on such duties.
ARTICLE 18
Sick Leave Policy Without Pay
Any employee who is absent on sick leave for less than twenty-six weeks or for a specific length cf tune, whichever is the greater, except in. cases of pregnancy, will have thelr^tob and sga3fi»BEotfected during this period. In Cases of indefinite aBSHlfce over twenty-six weeks for health reasons, the Company will grant a nonpaid leave of absence for up to one year. During this period the employee's service will be protected and the job, ifavailable on his/her return, or shortly thereafter, will be held open for him/ her. While it may not always be possible for the Company to guarantee an employee returning
35
from an indefinite sick leave exactly the same jcbwhich he/she left, the Company will make every attempt to place the employee on his/her return in as similar a job as is possible, as quickly as possible. Extended sick leave will be recognized as such on presentation of a doctor's certificate.
02 Maternity and parental leave will be given
18
iatemity and parental leave will be given
in accordance with the Employment Standards Act Unis may be extended to one year forverifled medical reasons.	’
ARTICLE 19 Benefits
The following plan to be in effect only during the life cf the present Agreement. All employees of the Shoe Division are required, as a condition of employment, to join the Group Insurance Plan established by the Company with a bona fide insurance company or companies and improved as per the scheduleattached. M new employees who have completed three (3) months probationary period will be eligible for these group insurance benefits, effective on the f i t pay period following 6 months from their date of hire (except Pension and Dental, which are explained elsewhere in this Agreement).
19.02	All insurance coverage will be as per the master insurance agreement as seen by the Union Executive on the appropriate date. The plan to be considered as part of this Agreements The details are as follows:
19.03	Weekly Indemnities: The employees who
36
oiy»i
nf fli i n rrrrvllr\ 1 ti onrnnr>Q	o n -i	*
are members of this group insurance plan are entitled also to the weekly indemnity payment: The weekly Indemnity will be increased to the amount allowed by the Unemployment Insur-anceActwhirhte<am<e?lhtqh#a.*L{3(¥' ofwages to a maximum benefit allowedly the Unemployment Insurance per week.
19.04	Provides aweekly indemnity commencing the first day in case of hospitalization or accident, other than occupational, and on the 5th
Computation of Weekly Earnings for Indemnity Payment:
Weekly earnings shall be based upon average earnings for given periods as hereinafter defined.nather. tlv&iv upon b average earnings shall be computed as follows:
19.06	On January 1st of each and eveiyyear, the
categories shall be reviewed and each insured employee placed in one cf the categories according to his or her Average Weekly Earnings. This shall bft_arrjye^Lal by taking the_total eauijiwg,,
for the preceding calendar year and dividing it by the number of weeks worked in that year shown on the T4 fonn for that year.
ry.u / Hospnai Benefit; The costofward accommodation is paid plus semi-private room up to 180 days. If the cost of premium for OHIf* will be higher than the present participation of the employees, the Companywill absorb such additional costs of the premium for the duration of this Agreement.
37
19.08 The Company will pay |00%gPtKe premium cost of OHIP during the I^ofthe present
Agreement only.
Mt.fL .-br-rfF'
19.09 Major Medical - $25 deductible per calendar year. Insurance Company pays 90% of remaining expenses, employees, 10%. Maximum payable$10,000 over three!(3) years.
p 2- ~J> ZJ?'
19.10 in addition to the above, ail employees belonging to the Group Insurance Plan are covered by a Life Insurance policy for $25.000 (Twenty-five Thousand Dollars). The increased cost to provide this coverage will be shared equally by the Company and employee. Additional optional life insurance is available at cost to the employee.
The cost cf the Group Insurance Plan to be shared equally by the Company and employee.
DENTAL PLAN 7 0£~fOd
19.12	The Company will provide a Dental Plan and pav J00% of the premium cost for eligible employees, the terms of which include, Blue Cross No. 9 or equivalent or better coverage,
7/-t
as of July l/93based on 1992 O.D.A. as cf July l/94based on 1993 O.D.A.
Eligibility for the plan is 12 months service with the Company and with a 80-20 co-insurance or better. The Company will select the carrier.
38
PENSION PLAN
The Company will provide a Pension Plan for all employees in the bargaining unit, who have completed their probationary period as outlined in the Pension Agreement. This Pension Agreement provides that an employee who has completed 10 or more years cf service will, upon normal retirement age, be entitled to a fully vested pension, at the rate ■ trees their credited years <
On termination in this Pension Plan, the vested monies will be transferable to the individual and it is life insured until then.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 7 cf the Pension Plan, the Company agrees that during the term of the Collective Agreement, it vTll contribute to the Pension Fund, not less than
26.5	cents as defined in Article 3.03 for each hour worked by a member as an employee.
ARTICLE 20
Government Legislation
20.01	Should Government legislation be enacted providing for increased medical, pension or other programs duplicating existing coverage, such additional coverage shall be subject to review with a view of preventing duplication in cost and/or coverage.
20.02	Should such legislated benefits be in excess of existing coverage, the Company will be liable for only the difference.
39
20.03	If as a result ofany such legislated change the Company is no longer required to pay certain sums of money on behalf of employees it is hereby agreed that such monies will be used to provide equivalent wage increases or new benefits either of which shall be negotiated between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE2 1
Overtime
21 .0 1 Overtime will only be permitted on a special permit signed by the Production Manager authorizing the individual to work and stating the number of hours of overtime authorized.
If. overtime is required, the employee will be paid on the basis of basic guaranteed hourly wage at time and one-half or in straight piece rate, plus one-half of basic guaranteed hourly wage, whichever is the higher. All overtime work will be governed by the “Employment Standards Act of Ontario”. An employee, in order to be eligible to work overtime must have completed a full shift of eight hours work.
2 1.03 No overtime work is pennitted in excess cf four hours following the regular shift, except in cases of emergency.
21.04	If an employee is called upon to perform overtime work after or before the regular working shift, he will be guaranteed at least one hour cf such work or one hour’s pay at overtime rate.
2 1.05 In individual cases where overtime work is 40
needed during the lunch period, employees called in for such job shall be guaranteed either one-half hour cf work or one-half hour of pay, at overtime rate. When working during the lunch period each individual must take a half hour lunch break later.
On mutual agreement with the Union a regular job may be worked up to one- half hour before standard starting time or one-half hour after standard quitting time. Pay for such to be no less than one-half hour at overtime rate. Refusal to work this change in shift hours will not result in disciplinary action.
Any work performed in addition to regularly assigned hours, or any performed on the eleven Statutory Holidays: New Year’s Day, Good FtiiiSy, Dominion Day, Labour Day. Christmas Day, Boxing Day, Victoria Day, Civic Holiday, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day (November 1 1th), Heritage Day (or equivalent). Saturdays and Sundays will be considered as overtime work except that, in case cf night shift, only the shift that commences on the evening of a
teed hourly wages, whichever is higher.
When an employee in Maintenance is called in during his off hours to perform overtime work, he will be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours work or pay at the applicable overtime rate.
CALL-IN
41
ARTICLE 22 Late Starting
For lateness up to three minutes, there shall be no penalty.
22.02	For lateness from four to eighteen minutes, the penalty shall be 15 minutes’ pay.
For lateness from nineteen to thirty-three minutes, the penalty shall be one half hour’s pay.
ARTICLE 23 Absenteeism
23.0	1 If an employee is absent the whole normal working day without prior—permission of the Company, or without notifying the Company before 9:30 a.m. on the first day of his/her absence, and upon his/her return to work is unable to offer the Company a satisfactory explanation of his/her absence, each such absence shall constitute an offence and the Company reserves the right to impose the following penalties:
First Offence - - Warning.
Second Offence - - Suspension for three normal working days without pay. Third Offence - - Discharge.
It is understood that this provision regulates also the early quitting and late starting in connection with break periods.Thls includes the IO-minute rest break, the lunch break, and the start or end of a shift. ^
Discipline
A Union Steward shall be present at all meetings where discipline is being handed out. When a steward for that specific department is not available, the Company will attempt to have another Union officer attend the meeting.
The Company and the Union will upon written request from the employee, review all disciplinary notices that are in excess of two years.
ARTICLE 24
MACHINE BREAK DOWN AND LACK OF MATERIALS
24.01	In the event of machine breakdown and waiting for lack of materials, when the Company requires the employee to remain in the plant. other than as the result of flood, fire, power failure or other causes outside of the control of the Company, the operator affected shall notify the Foreman/lady immediately and the Fore-men/lady will investigate the situation. If feasible, the Foreman/lady will assign the operator to another machine orjob. During such transfer, the operator will be paid at the rate cf that job or on the basis of Guaranteed Basic Wage whichever is the higher, however, if such transfer to 	............. '	•	' i
Should it not be feasible to provide the operator with another job during such breakdown, the operator will be paid for waiting time in excess of ten (10) minutes per shift at basic
43
wages according to classification, providing the operator meets the conditions of Article 24.04.
24.03	It is understood that in order to benefit underite clause ite*	must have his
time card initialled tv the Foreman/lady of his/ her department at the beginning and at the completion of the period of machine breakdown.
In order for any eligible employee to be paid for waiting time on a shift, the operator must first have experienced one !A? occasion cf unpaid waiting time of not less than ten (10) minutes duration.
ARTICLE 25
Incentive Earnings
25.01	In addition to the guaranteed hourly wages, the Company will continue to pay piece rates based on standard production minutes earned (S.P.M.) according to the system established. The main incentive earning for the employee is provided in piece rates.
It is understood that information about the individual output will be published at the same time the piece rates are published and thus made official and operative. The appropriate Union officials may record the piece rates for their own information. All rates are, and will be established by the appropriate Company officials using scientific time and motion study methods. This includes both the future piece rates and output standards as well as the rechecking cf those rates which are now in exis-
44
a task which has to be performed gradually. It is understood, however, that all such figures shall be treated at all times as the Company’s confidential information which must not be divulged to outsiders.
It is understood that information about the individual output will be given at the same time the piece rates are published, and thus made official and operative. The appropriate Union officials may record the piece rates for their own information. If they desire to do it after working hours, they should inform either the Personnel Manager and receive from them the usual permit to enter the respective department for that purpose. It is understood however, that all such figures shall be treated at all times as Company confidential information which must not be divulged to outsiders.
25.04	All piece rates are established with regard to the present methods of work, present machinery and equipment, and may be subjected to change with the changing methods, machinery and equipment. The piece rates shall be changed when there is a change in content cf the work, in machinery, in equipment, in work layout, supply of work handled which the operator can deliver the required output. In every instance, such change will be done on the basis of thorough time studies.
Standard output is established for each operation. It is not influenced by the number at the time, and such circumstances under ofpairs which the individual workshop, conveyor or
45
factory might be making per day.
When a new piece rate is set during such change, an operator would continue to receive for four weeks the old piece rate. During ‘these four weeks all problems connected with the change must be settled and the new piece rate will come into effect beginning on the fifth week after the date put down on theTime Study Sheet.
25.07	The Union will be notified about such change at the time when the Time Studies are
finished and the date on the Tune Study Sheet will be considered to be the starting date for the four week period mentioned above.
25.08	The Tune Study Sheet is completed when signed by the Costing Manager and the Production Manager with date affixed. Within two days from this date the new piece rate will be established and the Production Manager will pass on the information on the piece rate to the Department Union Steward or Chief Steward, including the information and date of completion of the Time Study the operator is entitled to fourweeks at the old rate.
If the output established by such new Time Studies will not be higher than five per cent (5%)there will be not change in the old established piece rate.
Establishing Operating Standard Output and Piece Rates
To establish the standard output on every operation the Company is using the Work FactorTlme
46
Study System. This system is well established on the North American Continent and used by the Company for about 20 years.
25.10 Basically the Work Factor Time Study System represents the combination of efficient industrial engineering in selecting the best ways available in the factory to perform the work operations and measuring all elements of each operation by mathematical time averages established by analysis of movements and/or functions needed to perform the whole operation. This system resembles the mathematical tables used by the Insurance industry to establish both the premiums and reimbursements.
Other time study methods for measuring the Standard output of work (either ’predetermined Time Study Methods” or “Stop Watch Methods”) can be used by the Union to check the findings on “Standard outputs” worked out by Company time study men using ‘Work Factor“ method. The Company agrees to recheck any operation with a stop watch which the Union has challenged through the grievance procedure using themethods of time study as described by the I. L.O.in Geneva, (infhebook ‘introductionto Workstudy”). In case of absolute disagreement on the Standards of output in a specific operation the Company agrees to submit the case to arbitration which would decide which of the standards by either method is correct.
The Company agrees to build into the production standards, established by Wok Factor or stop watch methods, at least 15% time
47
allowances. The Company also agrees to inform the operator before starting the Tune Study in rechecking the output standards challenged by the Union in the grievance on his operation and immediately upon completion of the study inform him cf the RATING FACTOR given him. The pertinent documents of such study shall be given to the worker or the Union.
A production standard one accepted shall not be changed except in the case where the Company makes a change in the material, tools machines, method or design of an operation. A production standard once accepted shall not be changed merely because of a change in name or symbol, but only if such a change significantly effects the standard output.
The above procedures for changing standard output are based on the principle that any changes in standards shall permit the same incentl ve earnings as existed underthe accepted original standards.
25.15 The discovery of clerical errors in the computation of a standard output shall warrant an appropriate adjustment in that standard, but such errors shall be brought to the attention of the parties within six (6 )months -Zutei the issuance of the standard.
The incentive earnings (piece rates) shall be established by adding to the guaranteed
basic wage on any and every class of operation at least 20% and dividing such hourly earning by Standard output per production hour (60 minutes) because the 15% time allowance is built up
into Standard output”. The result represents the piece rates. In instances where the Company, by means of comparing existing time studies with new time studies, using the methods provided for in the collective agreement are able to prove to the Union that due to clerical errors or creeping change, certain rates have become out of line, such rates shall be changed under the following rules.
25.17	(a)Certain employees are currently receiving rates which are in excess of the specified rates which are called for in the CollectiveAgree-ment. Such rates are known as Red Circled rates, onajob, shall continue to dc5so €oronly as long as they perfonn such jobs. Any new or other employee who performs such jobs shall receive only the specified rate.
is understood that an employee currently performing a job on a Red Circled rate shall be permitted to continue such job so long as the job is being performed in that department or its successor and a job won’t be removed from a department to avoid the payment of Red Circled rates.
(c)	Nothing herein shall restrict an employee from grieving a specified rate for a job which also has a Red Circled rate for a maximum period of six (6)months from ratification or, if later, the first time any employee performs the job.
(d)	' Employees performing jobs on Red Circled rates shall be entitled to the same increases in rates and base wages as other employees.
49
25.18	The Company agrees not to reduce the piece rate earning existing at the time cf signing this agreement if the earning of operators are higher than 20% of the basic wages established by this agreement.
25.19	The time study men shall, when making any study of individual operation, insure that circumstances and conditions existing at the time of the study are properly representative of those which will exist in the future and record in sufficient detail on the appropriate observation sheet all circumstances and conditions pertaining to the operation so that the operation could if necessary be reconstituted in the future.
25.20	The incentive system is designed to give the employee an opportunity to earn a minimum of at least twenty per cent over and above the guaranteed hourly rates with standard output as established by the Work Factor time and motion study methods’ in many cases the opportunity exists to earn even more according to the skill or effort required for the performance cf the
job.
25.2	1 When a person is required to work on the production of samples the piece rate for such work will be double the normal rate for the operation.
25.22 All employees will be job classified not later than 3 months from commencing employment. During such probation period the start rate will be 25 cents less than the classification rate.
50
The Company reserves the right to pay even higher guaranteed basic wages to such employees who merit them on account of the output and quality of work delivered.
New positions when added to the bargaining unit will have the wages and benefits mutually agreed to at that time in writing.
25.25 Deductions for *B* pairs (factory seconds) will not be made if the defect is caused outside of the assembly unit,
ARTICLE 26 Development Bonus
In order to reward the employees in newly-established workshops, where production has not reached its staridarductcptfi, aTTeveTopment Bonus will be established.
Each such newworkshop will have its own production plan showing the development of its output. The full Development Bonus will be paid in all instances where all factors, output and' quality are progressingaceording to the development plan.
26.03	As a principle the Union will be informed by the Company about all regular bonuses paid to the employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 27
Other Bonuses
27.01	Reallzingthat higherwages, betterquality
51
cf footwear and greater security cf employment can be achieved and maintained only by maintaining the standard output of workshops. uniformity in quality cf goods, and regular attendance, both the Union and the Company agree on the establishment cf the following incentive bonuses for all employees in the production departments.
ARTICLE 28	^
Group Incentive Bonus	}
In order to qualify for group incentive bonus any absence must be covered by an official leave cf absence signed by the Division Production Manager, or produce a Doctor's certificate in case of sickness. The bonus will be paid in proportion to the number ofhours worked.
It is agreed that failure to comply with the regulations relating to the punching of time cards could result in forfeiture of the bonus in respect of the period the employee was entitled to the bonus, without restricting the generality cf Article 3 with respect to the Reservation of Management Rights, (Dismissal of the employee for punching another employee’s time card).
28.03	The upper cutting regulations as formulated in the letter to the Union September 6, 1960 shall be applied as the job description cf the cutters, while all bonuses for these jobs were incorporated into piece rates.
52
ARTICLE 29
Methods cf Computing the Wages in the Finishing Room (conveyors etc.)
29.0 1 On all bottom conveyors of Departments 320 and 420, the pay will be calculated on the plans which are packed on the floor up to Saturday Midnight of each workingweek, meaning that at that time, packed shoes will be counted, and even if the plan is not completed, such part of the plan found packed on the floor will be counted in that week.
29.02	Sewing units, upper and bottom manipulation will continue to use the present method of computing wages for payroll, which means that every Saturday Midnight is closing time for payroll. The Foreman/lady counts what has been produced by every individual operator and puts it in for payment.
29.03	Example of No. 1:
During the week a workshop finished and dispatched four plans of 1,020 pairs each and 460 pairs from plan 5 up to Saturday night. These 460 pairs will be taken into account when compiling the payroll, therefore, the employee will have 4,540 pairs on payroll. Naturally, next week when this plan is dispatched, those 460 pairs will not be included for payroll purposes’ or, in other words only the rest of the plan is paid the following week if it is packed. The plans which are going to the payroll, even part of the plan, will be published by the Foreman/lady, so that the employee can make up his or her pay accordingly.
53
ARTICLE 30
Wages
30.0 1 Appendix A" and “B" and *C" are hereby made a part of this Agreement. The detailed Schedule cf Wages will be made available to the Union.
30.02	The following regulations shall govern in respect to basic guaranteed hourly wages:
(a)	To qualify for basic wages of any category an employee shall work at least 60% of his or her time at the operation belonging to such category.
(b)	If an operator works on several operations none of which takes 60% of his or her time, his or her guaranteed basic wages shall be balanced as per the following example:
Example: An operator is working on three operations viz:
Class VI 33.3% of time Class VIII 33.3% of time Class IX 33.3% of time
The basic guaranteed hourly wage for such operator shall be balanced as for Category Class VIII.	'
(c)	If an operator will perform two or more operations with none of them consuming from 34% to 60% cf his or her time, he or she shall be covered by the basic guaranteed wages belonging to the higher category.
(d)	The time established by time and motion
54
study methods used by the Company constitute the time for the establishment of the employees on incentive jobs of such nature as correspond to the classification of basic above practice (a,b, c).
It is the Company's policy to keep the employees on incentive jobs cf such nature as correspond to the classification of basic wages. The Production Managers will transfer the present employees to such jobs as quickly as possible. In such instances, however, where an operator is earning consistently above his basic guaranteed wage in the lower class ofoperations and who is not paid “extra wages’, the Company will not force hm or her into another (ncw)job of higher classification.
(a)	If an operator covered by basic guaranteed
hourly wages is called upon by the Company to perform such incentive operation which is lower bVcuvifci7	hourly wage clas-
sification, he/she shall be covered by his/her present basic guaranteed hourly wage classification.
(b)	Naturally his/her piece rate earnings shall come from piece rates established for such operation and he/she shall take a higher class piece rate incentive job at any time when the Company has such job for him or her.
30.04	Pay Day
Pay Day will be on Friday. The Company will arrange the distribution of pay cheques to the employees 'ere hour prior to quitting time."
55
30.05	Night ShiftBanus
yu-(oo6i.j tff*-
The Company will grant a night-shift bonus as
an extra to other earnings of the employees who work regularly o n n igh t dhftfo r a 1 eas tone wee k.
Such bonus will be accounted and paid weekly. The shift bonus will be 25 cents for the second shift and 28 cents for the third shift.
30.06	The basic guaranteed hourly wages are guaranteed to all employees covered by this Agreement and represent their guaranteed income for the working week according to the numbers of hours spent in the workshop.
If any employee arrives in the factory, without having been informed the previous day notto neportfor work and finds nojob to do, he or she is entitled to be paid half a Shift’s pay calculated atbasic guaranteed hourly wages.
30.08	Every employee covered by the foregoing
paragraph is to perform any job within his/her ability as directed by his/her Supervisor in case his or her usual job is not available.
30.09	When an operator is promoted from a job of one classification to a job having a higher classification, he/she vdfL be entitled to full basic guaranteed hourly wages applicable to the newjob, according to the time established for it. as long as he/she works on that operation. When such person works for twelve months on the job of higher classification his/her status will be upgraded as established by this higher
[ossification.
56
Occasionally, employees are requested to perform work on jobs unrelated to shoe production on which wage rates have not been established due to the varied and unforeseen nature of ib?1na,ilra.\la,‘jlnh "When anemployee. isdoing such work the flat hourly rate paid will be as follows: If the employee is not on layoff, pay will be average regular rate of last four week. If an employee is on layoff and is called in. he will receive the basic start rate for that job ora maximum cf $6.00 per hour if the work does not fall wfthln any euzrsat classification. If the job is on overtime the rate is to be time and one-half, times the $6.00 rate.
30.11 The Company will reimburse the Maintenance Employees up to $150 each per year for tools that have been damaged and the updating of present tools.
ARTICLE 31
Termination
31 .01 This Agreement shall be in effect from October 4,1992 to October 3.1994.
31.02	Subjectashereinafter provided, this Agreement shall also continue from year to year after October 3.1994 unless either party gives notice in writing of its intention to terminate the Agreement or to enter into negotiations for the purpose of amending the Agreement within a period of not more than ninety days and not less than thirty days prior to October 3.1994.
57
31.03	If notice of intention to amend is given in writing by either party as provided in Paragraph 2, the consequent negotiations shall commence not later than twenty days after the date of such written notice, and if such negotiations do not result in agreement prior to the date of termination of this Agreement, then this Agreement may be extended by mutual agreement between the negotiating parties for such further time as may be necessary to complete negotiations.
31.04	-This Agreement and all the terms and conditions thereof shall be subject to any proper legislation in regard thereto duly enacted by statute or regulation by the Governments cf the Dominion of Canada and the Province of Ontario, and this Agreement shall, from time to time. be modified, extended, restricted and amended to give affect thereto.
58
	Oct. 4. 1992		Oct. 4,
Class			
1	7.33	7.58	7.48
2	7.22	7.47	7.37
3	7.11	7.36	7.26
4	6.96	7.21	7.10
5	6.86	7.11	7.00
6	6.72	6.97	6.86
7	6.52	6.77	6.66
8	6.34	6.59	6.47
	6.23	6.48	6.36
1993
7.73
7.62
7.51
7.35
7.25
7.11
6.91
6.72
6.61
O)
in
Job
Hrly. Rate
	Start	Oct. 4, 1992
1, Leather Dispatcher	11.33	11.44
to Dept. 405		
2. Manipulators Rate	9.08	9.17
3. Cutting Leather	10.37	10.47
Repairs Dgt. 405		
4. Building Maintenance	10.95	11.06
MLUwright		
5. Janitor-	8.14	8.22
Cleaner Tutorial Handler	, 7.74	7.82
	8.65	8.74
(a)Bulk Mat. Hand.	9.43	9.52
8, Material Handler.		
Lift Truck Operator	11.13	11.24
9. Elevator Operator	10.76	10.87
10. Slug Maker	10.48	10.58
Hrly. Rate
Oct 4. 1993
11.67
9.35
10.68
11.28
8.38
8
7.98
8.91
9.71
11.46
11.09
10.79
Job	Hrly. Rate
	start
11. Prepare & Deliver	
Chemicals	9.23
12. Prepare, Leather	
uppers, 405	8.56
13. Cutting Dlemaker	8.11
14. Cafeteria Attendant	7.74
15. Mould Care Senior	9.00
16. Mould Care	7.89
17. Dispatch Socks	8.56
Hrly. Rate	
Oct. 4.1992	Oct. 4.1993
9.32	9.51
8.65	8.82
8.19	8.35
7.82	7.98
9.09	9.27
7.97	8.13
8.65	8.82
BATA uistkiBUXlOH CENTRE - Ylfl is HEDGOODS WAREHOUSING Effective October 4,1992 Increase - 1%
Effective October4,1993 Increase - 2%
Oct. 4, 1992 Hrly. Rate
18.	Shipper, Shelver, Sealer, Receiver, etc.
Start	8.50
3 Months	9.42
8 Months	9.86
12 Months	10.56
24 Months	11.24
19.	Reboxing. Reshelvlng, Relabelling. Ticketing
start	7.83
3 Months	8.66
6 Months	9.08
12 Months	9.51
20.	Claims Helper	8.65
Oct. 4, 1993
Hrly. Rate
8.67
9.61
10.06
10.77
11.46
7.99
8.83
9.26
9.70
8.82
CM
CO
KEY OPERATORS
Oct. 4,1992
Oct. 4,1993
Class	Start
1.	10.00
2.	9.78
3.	9.59
4.	9.42
5.	9.23
6.	9.04
7.	8.65
8.	8.44
9.	8.32
Hrly. Rate 10.10 9.88 9.69
9.51 9.32 9.13 8.74
8.52 8.40
Hrly. Rate 10.30 10.08 9.88 9.70 9.51 9.31 8.91 8.69 8.57
The main function of Key Operators is to minimize delays by training, filling in and helping out where necessary, so that productivity and quality may be maximized to the benefit of all concerned. However, they will not exercise management functions.
2
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Effective October 4, 1992 - 1% increase
			Start.	6 Mos.	12 Mos.
1.	Toolmaker		16.48	16.99	17.26
2.	N/C -Mainteni	ance it>	.11..	io.«*	16.67
3.	Maintenance	Specialist	15.15	15.34	15.52
3.	Sewing Mac	h i n e Spec.	15.15	15.34	15.52
4.	Electrician Jc	mrneyman	14.27	14.47	14.67
4.	Maintenance	Mechanic	14.27	14.47	14.67
Effective October 4,1993 - 2% increase
		Start	6 Mos.	12 Mos.
1.	Toolmaker A	16.81	17.33	17.61
2.	N/C Maintenance	16.43	16.71	17.00
3.	Maintenance Specialist	15.45	15.65	15.83
3.	Sewing Machne Spec.	15.45	15.65	15.83
4.	Electrician Journeyman	14.56	14.76	14.96
	Maintenance Mechanic	14 56	14.76	14.96
Journeyman
18 Mos. 17.55 16.99
15.82
15.82
14.92
14.92
"4*
CD
18 Mos. 17.90 17.33
16.14
16.14
15.22
15.22
The Company will pay 2.(C.O.L.A.V Cost of Living Allowance above the Provincial-Minimum for all hours worked to all employees who have completed their probationary period.
PROBATION RATES
Probationary employees on incentive earnings will receive the same incentive rates as other employees calculated on the basic rate of their classifications. Their hourly guaranteed minimum until they have completed die probationary period will be 250 per hour less than this basic rate,
Non-productive tune as a result of colour changes on the monoplax casting unit will be paid at 120% of basic wages.
in
co
APPENDIX “B"
Classification I
Making Tops & Bottoms. (Aula m/c) operator
Prepare and cut pile linings Casting quality control Line leader Mixing compounds
Pull shoes from mould and check pre guillotine tops and disp. to cooling con.
Preparing compounds /masterbatehes Banbury mixing Banbury sheeting off mill Banbury masticating
4	Roll operator
2 Roll grinding waste 60" mill
2 Roll warming/bend and sheet off/sulphur compounds.
2	Roll stretching
3	Roll operator
5	Roll prewarming and operator Pressing parts on large hydraulic press Splitting slabs - turner m/c operator Butting slabs, timesaver - operator feeder Cutting stitching insoles
Cutting textile uppers Stitching raised moccasin Cutting counterpockets Cutting quarterlinings
Cutting textile tongues - pockets Stitching welt on soles Moulding counters
66
Upper cutting - suede, calf, kid & reptiles
-	Split suede
-	nubuck patent, printed leather -kips, sides
-heel & platform covers
Toe lasting & ironing-thermO
Roughing shoes
Outsole stitching, cut threads & welt
Edge trimming
Heel trimming
Receiving
Shipping
Classification II
Cut stitch insoles & insert insoles
Pulling shoe from mould, dlsp. to cooling conv.
Attach (nail) heel platform
Condux grinding
Cutting Rubber/baled crepe
Preparing compounds - assistant
2 Roll crush pale crepe for remllling
2 Roll crepe remilllng/primaiy/comp 1st man
Bottom 5 roll cutting off soles
Bottom cutting soles - (uncured & cured)
Bottom catting Yieds - faneured & cured)
Folding - Machine
Cutting innerlinings, eyestays & under-tongues Cutting socklining, heelpads
cutting toecaps Cutting upper trims Cutting vamp linings Cutting nylon cord
67
Cutting crepe soles
Cutting crepe heels
Cutting synthetic soles/heels
Cutting rubber midsoles & slip soles
Heelseat last & ironing
Prepare and attach heels - inside
Scour Heels
Repair shoes in finishing Packing
Classification III
Lastpre-assemble place to conveyor Nail platform to heel in shoe Banbury sheeting mill - assistant 3 Roll assistants (carrying & feeding) winder 2 Roll crepe & comporemilling “assistant” 2nd Trimming midsoles - cutting & trim sheets
Feed extruder
Cutting fibre insoles/heelseat Cutting fibre platforms cutting boxtoes
Sole Moulding
Roughing soles (sleated) by hand
Moulding insoles Shelving
Classification IV
Fold lining
Pouring of plastisol (PVC) to moulds Press boots unlast check lining Materials supply
68
Pressing parts on small lab press Splitting &labs - Assistant sifting buffings
Wire brushing moulded soles-scouring/ buffing
Trimming soles& heels m/c/hd Deflashing moulded soles Prepare & deliver all materials Folding - by hand
Edge and Heel Smooth (crepe soles)
Check repairs & Id trolly
Lacquering shoes (varnish)
Feathering edges Prepare soles/heels for plan Staple attach heels & platforms Upper cutting - small parts from waste Cutting leather linings - quarter & sock Clicking elastics
Examine, pack and dispatch shoes (leather)
Fancy sewing/free hand Fit linings & edge stitch Vamping
Prepare and attach insoles
Prepare material to conv., lasts, uppers, etc.
Attach uppers
Repair shoes in lasting section Hot air ironing
Cement shoes by m/c (pressure cement)
Lay and press soles Winding bobbins Lay and press heels Prepare soles/heels
69
Temper Feather crepe sheets Folder assistant
Prepare lasts, uppers & move trolleys Cutting rubber parts - clicker
Stitch around zippers (Monoplax)
Binding top edge (Monoplax)
lasts and move trolleys Cutting parts - by clicker Cementing, sticking board sheets, slabs etc Fronting heels Guillotine heel slugs (F. Cr.)
Scouring heels & platforms/heelbreast
Scouring crepe heels
Splitting feathercrepe heels (Spring)
Dip uppers at toes, steaming, mulling Brushshoes all over - polishing
Classification VI
Delivering cartons & contents to shops Join upper lining & roll (by hand)
Ironing shoes
Pull staples, and tacks and anils Mull uppers
Classification VII
Edntingboxes-MarxceiTf Press
Printing boxes-cemented Printing boxes-stitched Tape liner seams Stitch insoles to liners
70
Check socks pack to baskets
PourHFVC Heels hand gun, cement sheels as
per area drawing
Assist inserting socks
Insert and position socks to shell
Shadow spray heel and sole edge
Trimming tops
Heat seal zipper
Cement tops pull linings check inside
Check boots insert fdlers
4 Roll - Assistant/books
Butting slabs, timesaver - assistant takeoff
Numbering linings - m/c
Decal insoles - assemble (heat transfer m/c)
Preparing materials - separate operator
Dispatch & control material to conveyor
Skive counter
Sew in eyestays
Sew in insoles
Press counter pocket
TTnefiitu fold edges
Examine & pack
Stitch backstraps & kicker Trimming bottoms Trim tops overflow.m/c Packing
Checking (examine)
Skiving linings
Join upper lining & tongues (on jig)
Prepare & cement zippers
Prepare and cement fdlers, insoles & soles Sew on fur cuff Trim tops
71
Examine & pack Fit heels
Cementing & drying soles - margin Apply precemented melt tosole/midsole Skive butt soles heelseat Apply welt
Pretiim F.C. sole & heel Round trim soles
Reduce wedge heels Skiving upper parts Embossing
Numbering uppers & linings (by machine) Prepare & deliver uppers Hi grequency weld assemble parts and control m/c dlssamble components dispose by plan Taping seams
Stitching decorations. to uppers
Sewing in counters
Sew french binding 1 st
Fold frsnch binding
Cording upper parts
Joining toecap & vamp
Binding upper/parts
SmvinPcfui backstrap kicker ballstrap
Fancy sew-on marking guide
Apply boxtoe (hotmelt/textlle) Heat press
Join vamp & moccasin Stitching insoles Sew on instep straps Joining
72
Sew trim to upper
Checking & packing Dispatch & control sew. conv.
Cement shoes by hand Packing shoes
Classification VIII
stitch tops Stitch bottoms
Snap wrap (corrugated) assemble boxes Pacing boxes - Stitched Pacing boxes - Cemented Tacking labels
Stitching backseams and frontseams
Prepare platform to table, cement shells, Insert
platforms to shells
Attach bottoms
Tacking binding ends
Prepare cartons pack boots
Plan numbering (by machine)
Stamping - machine Marking - machine
Mark uppers (m/c)
Sew upp er backseam/frontseam
Sew counter zig zag Eyeletting
Premould toes
Prepare & cement uppers & edges Fitting decals
Cement & insert sponge insoles Prepare & Cement linings & tongue Join upper lining (zig zag)
Prepare 85 assemble buckle, pocket & strap units
73
Decal shoes
Roughing soles/mldsoles-margln & surface Cement solas'- middles
Check & deliver soles Assemble soles & heels Check & deliver insoles Precement welt Spray paint sole unit
Check & deliver heels Splitting leather parts Edge stain spraying upper parts Marking upper parts (machine)
Perforating
Heat press linings
Cut auto strap
Prepare. & stamp socklinings
Prepare & stamp heelpads
Hi frequency weld - assemble parts
Stitching backs & fronts
Sewing linings (all)
Sewing eyestays
Fit & sew in reinforcements, elastic etc.
Sew french binding 2nd
Sewing upper parts zig zag
Tack on quarter safes, tongues, straps
Stitching edges of parts
Sewing lining facings
Sewing in tongues/tack
Edge stitch parts - sandals/guide/piston
Tacking trims to upper
Staple decorations to uppers (staples)
Stapling buckles
Eyeletting
74
Fitting textile lining to tongues & straps
Pull uppers over lasts
Fitting fillers to shoes Washing shoes
Insert felt liners Lacing
Press soles, midsoles, heels B/u soles & heels from rack Remove soles from conveyor Marking upper parts (by hand)
Cut elastics etc. (by hand)
Make bows & decorations (by hand) Weaving
Cement& stick doubler, eyestays, elastic Rub down backs & front Pounding mocassin ends Apply liquid boxtoes
Assemble decorations to uppers (by hand) Buckling
Cementing or pasting by hand Cement sponge to sock Cement stick insert to kicker
Clean soles and toplifts Cleaning shoes
Lacing shoes (by hand) -buckllng-cut gore
76
IH Vi TRESS WHEREOF and in full agreement thereof the parties hereto have caused*their names to be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and representatives.
URITED FOOD 4 COWtHCIAL	RORIKCO
WORKERS INTERpATIOKAL	Division of Bata
URICm - LOC^L 175/633	Industries Limited
REPORT GENERATION CAS
.DATE 19 AUG 94 15:50:38
WAGE CARD FOR AGREEMENT NO. 0079105
JURISDICTION
FED
PROV x PSSRA
SIC: 174 COMPANY:
AGREEM, EFFEC, DATE:	921004
AGREEM, EXP. DATE:	9410 0 3
NO. OF EMPLOYEES:	500
SETTLEMENT DATE : WAGE EFFECTIVE DATE: WAGE REOPENER DATE:
STAGE OF SETTLEMENT: DUR. OF NEGOTIATION:
Norimco, Division of Bata Industries L d
UNION:	United Food and Commercial Workers International Union
921026
921004
MED
02
LOCATION:. Batawa, Ont
COLA:	NONE X DELETED	EXISTS	INACTIVE
COMMENTS:
> AMENDMENT - ADJUST BASE RATE INCREASES TO ACCORD WITH AGREEMENT
DATE
921004
RATE
7.320
%
1,03
DATE	RATE	%	DATE	RATE	%
931004	7,980	2 . 05		0 . 000	0.00
			I		
WAGE INCREASES:
>	921004 - 1.0% ATB, 931004 - 2.0% A'TB
>
LUMP SUM PAMNTS :	>
CHNGS. IN INCR,:	>
SPEC. ADJ. :	>
OTHER :
>
>
*** PREVIOUS COLA INFORMATION *** CARRY-OVER FLOAT = 0.000	FOLD-INS OF CARRY-OVER FLOAT:
DATE AMOUNT | DATE AMOUNT | DATE AMOUNT | DATE AMOUNT
<
<
<
<
<
C
<
(Y or N)
DATE AMOUNT
CPI TYPE:	>
COLA TYPE:
>
>
TRIGGER:	>
CAP:	>
COMP, PER. :
CURRENT COLA INFORMATION ***
c # OF CALC,:
COMP. FQ
C
C
<
C
>
>
FOLD-IN DTS : > OTHER:
>
>
>
END REPORT
C
<
C
C
<
Norlmco, Division Wages:
Hours of Work:
Paid Holidays:
Paid Vacation:
Healthand Welfare:
Pension Plan:
of Bata Industries Ltd., Batawa and Trenton and United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Local 175*(AFL-CIO/CLC) (500 production employees):	A 24-month renewal agreement effective
from October4,1992, to October 3,1994f/settled in October at the mediation stage. Duration of negotiations- 2 months.
Effective
General Increases Hourly Rates Cleaner
LiftTruck Operator Toolmaker A
Oct. 4/92 /
1.0%
$7.82 • ($7.74)
$11.24
($11.13)
$16.48-$17.55
($16.32-$17.38)
40 per week (unchanged). 11 (unchanged).
Oct. 4/93
2.0%

$7.98 ^
$11.46*^
$16.81-$17.90 /
2 weeks after 1 year, 3 after 3,4 after 10, 4 weeks plus 2 days after 15, and 5 weeks after 25 (unchanged).
Insurance Premiums - Employer confribiirtbrnr capped at current levels.
Life Insurance - $25,000 ($15,000). Optional, added coverage may be purchased by employees (new addition).
Dental Plan - Effective July 1,1993,1992 (1991) Ontario Dental Association fee schedule; July 1,1994,1993 schedule.
Basic Benefit Per Month Per Year of Service - $15 ($13). l/