COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
THE CANADIAN HANDBAG MANUFACTURERS' COUNCIL INC.
and
LOCAL 9 , CANADIAN COUNCIL
of the
INTERNATIONAL LEATHER GOODS, PLASTICS AND NOVELTY WORKERS' UNION (QFL - CLC - AFL - CIO)
JANUARY 01	1988 TO DECEMBER 31,	1990
3
3
3
3
4
4
4
4
5
5
6
7
7
7
8
8
9
9
11
12
12
12
12
14
16
16
18
19
19
INDEX
Definition of industry.......
Definition of employee.......
Agency of union..............
Observance of agreement......
Discrimination by union......
Discrimination by employer...
Union shop...................
Employment of union members
and working cards............
Employees from open market...
Trial period.................
Contracting and subcontracting..................
Working in outside shop
prohibited...................
Home work....................
Special definition employers
and employees................
Work by employers. designers
and foremen..................
Responsibility for outside
work. ......................
Check-off dues system........
Division of work.............
Union officers' visits to
employers....................
Shop chairman................
No work where strike.........
Sanitation...................
Working hours................
General rules on overtime and
hours of work................
Pay of worker................
Holidays.....................
Bonus........................
No cessation of work.........
Effect of resignation or expulsion from membership in council or union.............
20
23
24
26
26
2?
28
30
3 0
i
31
32
34
34
3 6
43
43
44
44
44
45
INDEX
Waqe increase.............. . . . ,
Vacation with pay from
employer.....................
Third week ' s vacation pay.. . . Fourth and fifth weeks'
vacation pay.................
Year-end vacat ion..........
Notices of discharge and
leaving jobs.................
Grievance procedure..........
Absence on special occasions.
No individual contracts......
The manufacturers' council, its rights, privileges and
obligations..................
Dispute between union and
employer.....................
Health benefit fund..........
Supplementary vacation pay... Social security provision in
the decree............... .
Definition of classification. Stability of wages or
conditions...................
Bereavement pay..............
Rest periods.................
Extension of collective labour
agreement to industry........
Duration of agreement and
retroactivity................
Renewal of agreement........ .	,
-1-
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT MADE AND ENTERED INFO AT MONTREAL, CANADA, THIS
BY AND BETWEEN:	THE CANADIAN HANDBAG MANU-
FACTURERS' COUNCIL INC., a body politic duly incorporated having its head office and principal place of business in the City of Montreal, District of Montreal, herein acting for and on behalf of the undersigned employers and members of the said Council and each of the undersigned members of the said Council, employer, personally, each for himself or itself, all such being hereinafter called «EMPLOYERS»,
PARTY OF THE FIRST FART
AND :	LOCAL 9, CANADIAN COUNCIL
of the INTERNATIONAL LEATHER GOODS, PLASTICS AND NOVELTY WORKERS UNION, affiliated with the QFL-AFL-CIO and the Canadian Labour Congress, hereinafter called the «UNI ON and the EMFLOYEES»,
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART RECITALS
WHEREAS!, the employers of the first part carry within the Province of Quebec, the manufacturing, importing and distributing of all kinds of handbags, pocketbooks, flight bags, purses, change purses and other general pro-
-2-
ducts of whatever description; and
’ WiEREA'S, the party of the first part is known under the name of «The Canadian Handbag Manufacturers' Council Inc.»; and
WHEREAS, the union of the second part constitutes a voluntary association of employees in the said industry, which said employees of the said union, through the undersigned officers declare that the said union is authorized to represent for the purpose of these presents; and
WHEREAS, both said parties of this agreement, namely, of the first and the second parts, are desirous of promoting the principles of collective bargaining, the avoidance of industrial conflict, and the regulation of relations between employer and employee in the said industry, of the securing to the workers therein a reasonnable living wage, of promoting equalization of standards of labour in the industry, and of securing uninterrupted operation and general stabilization therein, as far as possible:	and
WHEREAS, the said parties hereto recognize that to accomplish the said objects, it is advisable and necessary to have an organization representing the employers and an organization representing the employees in the said industry, and a collective labour agreement between the employers in the said industry and the union; and
WHEREAS, it is advisable to have the said collective labour agreement made obligatory for employers and employees of the industry under the Collective Agreement Decrees Act, R.S.Q. 1977, chapter D-2, in the Province of Quebec, the whole subject to the terms and
-3-
conditions and for the duration, as more fully
stated and specified hereinafter:
NOW, THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH:
That the said parties do hereby, each and in consideration of the other's promises and undertaking, covenant and agree as follows:
I.	DEFINITION OF INDUSTRY
The present agreement applies to the manufacture, importation and wholesale distribution of handbags, including shoulder bags, carry-all bags, flight bags, bags attached to the belt, pocketbooks, purses, tote bags, travel bags, brief cases and change purses and any other product manufactured, imported or distributed.
II.	DEFINITION OF	EMPLOYEE
The present agreement shall apply to all employees except foremen, foreladies, supervisors, designers, (all as herein defined) and salespersons, office employees, message boys , sweepers.
III.	AGENCY OF UNION
The employers agree that they recognize and acknowledge the union as the sole agent and representative of the employees.
IV.	OBSERVANCE OF	AGREEMENT
The union and the employers each agree that they will perform in good faith the terms and provisions of this agreement and exercise all disciplinary powers which respectively they may possess, to secure or enforce due performance of this agreement.
The terms of this agreement shall be so construed as to secure the enforcement of this
4
agreement.
V.	DISCRIMINATION BY UNION
The union agrees that no discrimination of any kind will be exercised or permitted by it or any of its members against any employer by reason of the past activities or attitude of such employer in or as to strike, or as to any particular strike or as to labour unionism or otherwise.
In addition, there will be no discrimination because of sex, race, colour, creed or national origin.
VI.	DISCRIMINATION BY EMPLOYER
The employers agree that no discrimination of aby kind will be exercised or permitted by them against any employee, whether by reason of any activity or attitude of such employees in or as to strike or as to any particular strike, or as to labour unionism or otherwise.
In addition there will be no discrimination because of sex, race, colour, creed or national origin.
VII.	UNION SHOP
The employers agree that as a condition of employment, all employees governed by the present agreement must be members of the union.
VIII.	EMPLOYMENT OF UNION MEMBERS
AND WORKING CARDS___________
The union shall furnish a working card to each new employee, so supplied, and the employer shall employ only such new employees who have a union working card.
5
However, the union will not issue a working
card to any employee without first determining that the employee has worked the required number of days notice with the former employer.
IX.	EMPLOYEES HEM OPEN MARKET
In the event that the union is unable to furnish the said employers with the required new help as aforementioned, the employers may engage such new help whether or not such employees are members of the union.
Any employee who has been employed from the open market and is not a member of the union shall pay and the employer shall deduct from the employee's pay the union membership fees upon the completion of the first full week of employment. All new employees must sign a union application card at the time they commence employment and become and remain-members of the union as a condition of employment, all as outlined in article X entitled TRIAL PERIOD.
Beginners, under the age of 18 and after a trial period of two (2) months, shall become members of the union and be entitled to all the rights, privileges and obligations of this agreement. However, students employed during the school vacation period shall become members of the union if they remain on beyond the recognized school vacation period.
X.	TRIAL PERIOD
Subject to article IX, any employee who has completed a trial period of four (4) weeks and is found unsatisfactory, may be discharged by his/her employer or, if found satisfactory by the employer, shall be con-
-6-
sidered a permanent employee. Thereafter, such employee shall be entitled to all the privileges and subject to all obligations of the present agreement.
XI.	CONTRACTING AND SUB-CONTRACTING
No contracting or sub-contracting shall be given to any individuals for the benefit of either the employer or the employees, unless the factory staff of the employer is working full time.
In any event, no employer shall send any material from his factory to be made up, or have any work performed outside his factory premises in Canada, nor shall the employer purchase handbags made in Canada of a class and kind ordinarily manufactured by the employer, unless all the employees who are working in the classifications enumerated in the agreement in a shop operated by the employer are fully employed. Where the said employees are fully employed, the employer may have work performed in another factory or a contractor that is a union shop within the meaning of the terms of the present agreement. In any event, when a union contractor is given a contract to perform, the contract shall stipulate the same full employment specified above, before a further contract is given, even if it be to another union contractor or factory.
Should any work be given out contrary to the above condition of full employment, the said employees shall be entitled to full pay for the number of hours that the employee would otherwise have worked.
-7-
No union contractor shall subcontract, nor shall a union contractor perform work for a non-union employer, or for a nonunion jobber. The union joins each employer in the policy of not transacting or doing business with the jobber who himself gives out work to be performed, or who purchases from non-union manufacturers or non-union contractors.
XII.	WORKING IN OUTSIDE
SHOP PROHIBITED
No permanent employee shall be permitted to work part-time or overtime in any outside shop other than his/her regular employer, except in special circumstances, with the consent of both employer and union.
XIII.	HOME WORK
All work on products or any parts thereof, coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement, which is given to or accepted by any person to be done or performed in or about a home, apartment, tenement or room in a residential establishment or premises used as such, shall be deemed to be ((home work)).
No work shall be given to employees or any other persons to be manufactured or worked upon at home, and no employees or other persons shall perform any work at home upon any of the products coming within the jurisdiction of the agreement.
XIV.	SPECIAL DEFINITION
EMPLOYERS AND EMPLOYEES
Without in any way limiting the definitions as herein contained, every jobber, retailer or other person having goods manufactured for him shall be deemed to be an employer and every contractor shall be deemed to be both an employer and an employee, and every employer, designer, foreman, assistant designer,
-8-
and/or assistant foreman personally engaged in doing any work ordinarily done by an employee in the industry as defined herein, shall be deemed to be an employee for the purpose of this agreement and shall be bound by the provisions of said agreement.
In this agreement, the singular shall include the plural and vice versa and reference to any gender shall mean all genders.
XV.	WORK BY EMPLOYERS,
DESIGNERS AND FOREMEN
Save as hereinafter set out, no employer, designer or foreman shall work as a cutter, table worker, operator, framer, packer, general worker, cementer or paster, stapler or folder or apprentice in the factory during the slack or sample season; at other times, such persons may do such work but only during the regular hours of work of the employees.
With respect to foremen and designers, the foregoing provisions shall not prevent such employees from doing their work as foremen and designers, but they shall do no production work outside of the regular working hours as provided in this agreement.
Where the employer is a corporation, the provisions of the present section apply to its directors and shareholders as well as to the designers and foremen.
XVI.	RESPONSIBILITY FOR OUTSIDE WORK
Whenever wholesalers, jobbers, retailers, contractors, manufacturers or other persons, give work to outside shops, inside contractors or otherwise, such wholesalers, jobbers, retailers, contractors, manufacturers or other persons shall be jointly and severally responsible with the person to whom such work is given for wages and working con-
-9-
ditions as determined by this agreement.
Any transaction or agreement between any of the persons designated in the foregoing paragraph, either directly or through their ((prete-noms)), agents or mandatories for the transfer, sale or cession of unmanufactured material, such as, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, leather, plastics, yard goods and accessories thereto, and the resulting manufactured products coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement, or the decree governing the industry, shall he deemed to be the ((giving of work)) within the meaning and intent of the preceding paragraph.
Any and all of the above-mentioned persons, whether they give or receive the work must, on the same day that the work is given or received, file at the office of the Parity Committee of the Handbag Industry, a report thereof, on forms provided by the said Parity Committee.
XVII.	CHECK-OFF DUES SYSTEM
For the duration of the present agreement, the employer undertakes, each week, to deduct from the wages of all employees who are covered by this agreement, an amount of union dues and assessments according to the scale to be provided by the union, and to transmit the amount so deducted to the union at the end of each month or each week, as the union may decide.
XVIII.	DIVISION OF WORK
In the slack time, when there is not sufficient work for all employees in the factory, the available work therein shall be divided as equally as possible among all employees in their respective classifications.
The employer shall have the right to select employees suitable for work on samples and duplicates.
-10-
However, after ten 10) working days of slack time have elapsed there shall be-a meeting between the union a d the employer to discuss whether slack time shall continue or alternatively that there shall be a lay-off.
Should the employer and the union agree, following the ten (10) working days of slack (part) time, that the flow of available work warrants a «temporary» or «permanent» lay-off, same shall be effective in the manner prescribed in this article.
Temporary lay-off shall mean a consecutive period of a lay-off not exceeding six (6) months.
An employee shall be given two (2) working days notice prior to a temporary lay - off.
Permanent lay-off shall mean a consecutive period of a lay-off exceeding six (6) months.
If during a temporary lay-off period, an employer determines that the lay-off in one or more cases will become a permanent lay-off, the employer is required to so advise the employee and union, in writing, within six (6) months from the original date of the lay-off and grant the employees concerned with the right to full work and/or full pay, within the prescribed period of six (6) months, for the notice period to which employees are entitled to receive.
When a permanent lay-off is contemplated and instituted, an employee must be given the required number of weeks of written notice by the employer, as provided in
-11-
article XXXIV of this agreement and the employee can be obliged to work during the notice period, provided the notice occurs within the prescribed period of six (6) months from the day of the original consecutive lay-off.
The employer shall give favourable consideration to seniority in the matter of lay-offs, except where a less senior employee's skill, competence and ability relative to the performance of the work are superior to those of the senior employee.
Temporary laid-off employees will be recalled to work in the reverse order from lay-offs, providing the employee has the qua- , lifications to do the job available, as above enumerated. Following a general recall, employees will be returned to their prior occupation.
XIX.	UNION OFFICERS' VISITS
TO EMPLOYERS '_________
Not more than two (2) duly authorized officers or representatives of the union shall at all reasonable business hours have access to the factory of each employer for the purpose (which shall be disclosed) of dealing with any specific complaint, condition, or other matter, arising out of, or appertaining to this agreement or its operation or the relation of the parties thereto, and such representative of the union and the individual employer shall together cooperate so as to enable any such matter to be investigated, dealt with, and disposed of as satisfactorily and as expeditiously as possible, but not so as to disturb the business of the employer.
All discussions between the employer and the union representative shall take place in the office of the employer.
-12-
XX.	SHOP CHAIRMAN
The employees in the shop shall, at a regular meeting convened by the union, but not during working hours, regular or overtime, elect a chairman, who shall be recognized as the official representative of the union in the absence of the union business agent.
XXI.	NO WORK WHERE	STRIKE
The employer shall not give work to any manufacturer or contractor (as defined by this agreement) nor accept any work from a manufacturer, contractor or jobber in this industry against whom the union is conducting a strike.
XXII.	SANITATION
Each employer	and	his em-
ployees will maintain and observe proper sanitary conditions as required by law.
XXIII.	WORKING HOURS
(Except employees in shipping and warehouse)
A week's work shall consist of thirty-seven and one half (37 1/21 hours divided into five (5) working days as follows:
From Monday to Friday inclusive, work shall begin at 8:00 a.m. and cease at 12:00 noon, with one (l)hour interval for lunch between 12:00 noon and 1:00 p.m. and work shall resume from 1:00 p.m. until 4:30 p.m.. Flowever, by mutual agreement between, the union, the employer and the employees of any particular factory, the one (1) hour lunch interval may, for a specific period, be shortened by not more than one-half
-13-
(1/2) hour so that the employees may complete
a standard day's work earlier in the day to the extent of such corresponding shortened lunch period.
Overtime work in addition to and after the regular hours is permitted only up to and not later than 6:30 p.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of each week, and between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Saturdays. All overtime work after 4:30 p.m. and on Saturdays, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate paid to the employee. There shall be no work performed on Saturday afternoon, this work being prohibited.
Shipping and warehouse clerk
A week's work consist of thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/2) hours divided into five (5) working days as follows:
From Monday to Friday inclusive, work shall begin at 8:00 a.m. and cease at 12:00 noon, with three-quarters (3/4) of an hour interval for lunch between 12:00 noon and 12:45 p.m. and work shall resume from 12:45 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. on Monday, Tuesday. Wednesday, Thursday and up to 3:15 p.m. on Friday, or, the optional work schedule may commence at 8:30 a.m. each work day up to 5:00 p.m. except Friday where the work day shall be up to 3:45 p.m. with the same three-quarters (3/4) of an hour interval for lunch.
Time and one-half for overtime shall be paid upon the completion of a standard seven and one-half ( 7 1/21 daily work hours.
I
14
Shipping clerk (leader)
A week's work shall consist of forty and one quarter (40 1/4) hours divided into five (5) working days, as follows:
From Monday to Friday inclusive, work shall begin at 8:00 a.m. and cease at 12:00 noon, with three-quarters (3/4) of an hour interval for lunch between 12:00 noon and 12:45 p.m. and work shall resume from 12:45 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and up to 4:00 p.m. on Friday.
Overtime compensation
Shipping clerk (leader)
Should working hours exceed an average of forty and one-quarter (40 1/4) hours per week, which will be determined not later than every six (6) months, an employee will be entitled to compensatory time off or payment therefor, calculated on the basis of time and one-half of the employee's individual hourly rate for such possible overtime work.
XXIIIA.	GENERAL RULES ON OVERTIME
AND HOURS OF WORK_________
It is recognized that a reasonable amount of overtime is necessary for the efficient operation of the employer's business. If overtime is necessary and after reasonable notice is given by the company, employees will cooperate with the employer and the overtime rates, as provided in the agreement, will be paid.
Should an employee lose time through lateness in arriving at work on his own volition, overtime shall begin, on the day when the lateness occurs, only after the lost time is made up by the said employee.
i
-15-
The parties further agree that all employees requested by the employers to report to work in the morning will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours guarantee whether or not there is work to be done, save in the event of power failure, flood, fire, explosion, or other acts of God.
It is agreed that an employee shall be paid for all waiting time during the daily work hours. The employee must be paid for the first working hour of the day whether or not he is requested to wait.
If the employer terminates the employees waiting period at any time during the morning in view of power failure, flood, fire, explosion, or other acts of God, and the employee is called back to work immediately after the lunch hour, the employee shall again be guaranteed a minimum of one (1) hour work and compensation for additional waiting time if required by the employer.
The employees shall be at their work place, benches or machines as provided €or in the stipulation covering daily hours of work. It is agreed, however, that in keeping with present shop practices, employees who come late more than five (5) minutes after starting time, will be docked fifteen (15) minutes of time; those who come more than fifteen (15) minutes after starting time shall be docked one-half (1/2) hour of time. Where employees report to work more than one-half (1/2) hour late in the morning, unless for good and sufficient cause, the employer may withhold work from that employee for one-half (1/2) day.
I
-16-
The union and the council recognize the evil of absenteeism. Both parties, therefore, will use their best efforts to reduce absenteeism and limit absenteeism to cases of illness or similar excusable causes.
The shall be no gathering of employees during the hours of labour and employees shall not dress up or make up on the employer's time.
XXIV .	PAY OF WORKER
All wages shall be paid in cash and shall be paid weekly. The employer may, however, pay such wages by cheque provided suitable arrangements can be made which are mutually agreeable to the union and the employer and which do not inconvenience the employee in any way or prevent him from cashing the said pay cheque on the day of receipt thereof. No employee shall be entitled to any pay for time when he is not working save and except as provided in the present agreement.
The system of work in the industry shall be that of employment by the week, or by the hour.
XXV,	HOLIDAYS
The employees shall have the right to abstain from work on all recognized statutory or legal holidays and on any religious holiday herein mentioned.
The employer agrees to grant all employees, members of the union and/or covered by this agreement, the following legal holidays with pay, namely: Good Friday, Dollard des Ormeaux Day (Victoria Day) , St.John the Baptist Day, Dominion (Confederation) Day,
I
-17-
Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, New Year's Day and the day after New Year's Day, no matter on what day of the week these holidays may fall.
To qualify for payment for any or all of the said holidays, a beginner and an apprentice employee must be employed in the same shop for a minimum period of three (3) months prior to the holiday or holidays in question. All other employees, after two (2) weeks of employment, are entitled to the said holidays. Furthermore, to qualify for payment for said holiday or holidays, an employee must not be absent the work day immediately preceding and immediately following the holiday or holidays in question. It is understood, however, that any day proclaimed by the competent authorities as a holiday will not be considered to be a work day for this purpose.
In the case of absence because of physical incapacity caused by accident, illness, pregnancy or temporary lay-off from employment by the employer, the employee shall be entitled to a holiday or holidays if she/he has worked and earned wages in the twenty-eight (28) calendar days immediately prior to the holidays.
Where the employee performs work on any of the aforesaid holidays, the employee shall be paid an additional amount calculated at one and one-half (1 1/21 times of his regular rate of pay.
By mutual consent between the union and the council and the individual employer, a paid holiday which falls on a Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, may be moved to the preceding Monday or the following
18
Friday of the same week.
If St.John the Baptist Day falls on a non-working day, the working day preceding or following June 24, as proclaimed by government authorities, shall be the holiday.
XXVI.	BONUS
The employer agrees to grant to all employees a bonus of two (2) days' pay.
To qualify for payment of the said bonus, the employee
(a)	must work the first Monday after summer vacation;
(b)	must work the last Thursday before the summer vacation:
(c)	must not be absent the work day immediately preceding and immediately following the said Monday, except in the case of absence because of physical incapacity caused by accident, illness, pregnancy or temporary lay-off from employment by the employer;
(d)	must not be absent the work day immediately preceding and immediately following the said Thursday;
(e)	must work in the same shop for a minimum period of three (3) months prior to the said Monday or Thursday, as the case may be, if she/he is a beginner or an apprentice in the industry;
(£)	In the case of absence because of
physical incapacity caused by accident, illness, pregnancy or
19
temporary lay-off from employment
by the employer, the employee shall not be deprived of the said bonus referred to in this article. 'However, entitlement to the aforesaid bonus shall not extend beyond a period of fifteen (15) consecutive weeks of absence from work for whatever reason.
The said bonus shall be payable at the payroll period following the said Monday or Thursday, as the case may be.
XXVII.	NO CESSATION OF WORK
Duringthe existence of this agreement and pending a negotiation or settlement of any dispute between any employer and any employee or employees falling within the scope of this agreement, or between employers and the union, neither party hereto nor any employer or such employee or employees, nor the union, nor any group of employees, will institute or engage in, or authorize, or permit, or allow any lockout, stoppage of work, strike or slow-dow,
XXVIII.	EFFECT OF RESIGNATION OR
EXPULSION FROM MEMBERSHIP IN COUNCIL OR UNION______
No independent agreement shall be made by the union with any employer or manufacturer, whether a member of the council or not, upon more favourable terms as to hours, wages and conditions than that provided for in the present agreement.
In any case of independent agreement made between the union and an employer who has ceased to be, or who is not a member of the council, it shall be obligatory for such employer to pay an additional half of
-20-
one percent (1/2 of 1 °/o§f their respective factory payroll directly to the «Pocketbook Workers' Health Benefit Fund», administered jointly by the union and the council, and made payable to compensate for the administrative costs of such fund during the present agreement. A copy of such independent agreement shall be given to the council prior to its completion and execution and such contract shall not include an arbitration clause or the right to arbitrate any dispute except as provided by law.
When the council notifies the union of the resignation or expulsion from the council, the foregoing provisions shall apply to such individual employer and/or employers.
If the union notifies the council of the resignation or expulsion from the union of a member or members, such member or members shall be considered non-union and the employer shall be given reasonable time (at least seven (7) days) to replace such worker to avoid inconvenience to his business whenever the union is unable to replace such worker.
XXIX.	WAGE INCREASE
In the first year of this agreement, a general wage increase of 3.6% for all qualified employees will be granted over and above their individual hourly rate in effect December 31, 1987, effective and retroactive as and from January 01, 1988.
Apprentices employed on or prior to December 31, 1987 , who are not classified as qualified employees, based on the apprenticeship schedule, shall receive the said increase of 3.6% over and above their individual rate of wages provided in the January 01,1985
21
to December 31, 1987 collective labour agreement, retroactive to January 01, 1988 and shall receive a rate of wages not less than the grade rate to which they belong, including the subsequent increases, as provided in the present agreement.
Apprentices employed on or after January 01, 1988, and subsequent years of this agreement even when they become qualified employees, shall receive hourly rates covering such apprentices as stipulated in the « Schedule of wages (A) » .
The new rates effective January 01, 1988, shall be payable retroactively within two (2) weeks following approval of the present agreement by the employees.
In the second year of this agreement, that is, January 01, 1989, a general wage increase of 3.6% for all qualified employees over and above their individual hourly rate in effect December 31, 1988, shall be granted, effective as and from January 01,
1989 .
In the third year of this agreement, that is, January 01, 1990, a general wage increase will be granted to all qualified employees based upon, and equal to, the rise in the Consumer Price Index and major components (for Canada, time-base 1981=100) . The base period for calculation purposes shall be November 1988 to and including November 198 9. The percentage increase disclosed in the said Price Index for the said twelve (12) month period ending November 1989, shall be the amount of the wage increase t o be granted as and from January 01, 1990, but not to exceed five percent (5%).
I
22
It is understood and agreed that any voluntary wage increase which may be given the employees above the qualified minimum wage rates of this agreement, at any time, during this agreement, will not deprive the employee from the scheduled negotiated wage increases mentioned in this agreement. However, the wage increases provided in this agreement shall be based on all union negotiated wage increases.
The minimum hourly wage scales in every one of the apprenticeship periods, excepting the wage scale for the first month, shall be revised to reflect all the negotiated wage increases. The first month's hourly rate (for beginners) shall be not less than the hourly rate specified in the regulation respecting Labour Standards pursuant to an Act respecting Labour Standards.
It is agreed that the minimum wage scales and the actual individual wage increases shall be rounded out to the nearest full cent, that is, anything less than one-half ($) cent shall revert to the lower cent, and one-half (h) cent and more to revert to the higher cent.
i
-23-
XXX.	VACATION WITH PAY
FROM EMPLOYER
The vacation period in the industry shall be the last two (2) full consecutive weeks in the month of July and shall coincide with the very same two (2) week period as is or will be the case in the Quebec Construction industry as determined by their government de-creee governing same. However, it is agreed that if any unforeseen hardship affecting the entire industry shall result therefrom, the parties may mutually agree to change such vacation period.
During the above vacation period, no work shall be performed by any employer, employees or any other person on products coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement.
All employees who have been in the employ of their employer for a period of fourteen hundred (1,400) working hours shall receive directly from their employer, two (2) full weeks' vacation pay at the rate of wages as of July 01 of the year in which the vacation pay is granted, or four percent (4%) of their gross earnings, whichever is greater, for the year immediately preceding July 01 in each year. If such employees have worked less than fourteen hundred ( 1,400) working hours for their employer preceding July 01 in each year, they shall be entitled to receive directly from their employer four percent (4%) of their gross earnings during the period of employment with their respective employers.
In determining the annual number of working hours for vacation purposes, due credit is to be given the employee for the vacation and legal holidays hours.
-2 4-
Notwhitstanding the foregoing provisions with respect to vacation pay, every employee shall, in the event of termination of his employment with such employer prior to July 01, be entitled to receive directly from their employer, four percent (4%) of the wages earned during the period of service entitling him to his vacation after July 01 preceding his termination o£ employment with such employer.
Should the Parity Committee, after investigation, deem that the payment of vacation pay by an employer to his employees is not guaranteed at the payment date, it may oblige such employer to pay to the Parity Committee in a vacation pay fund, six percent (6%) of the monthly payroll on or before the 15 of the month following. These sums shall be held in trust by the Parity Committee for the employees entitled to annual vacation or severance compensation for vacations, and shall be remitted to them at the time vacation pay or termination pay is due. In cases where the amount paid over to the Parity Committee is not sufficient to pay the compensation due to the employees, the difference between the
amounts already received and the sums due to
the said employees shall be transmitted by the employer to the Parity Committee upon demand. Should there be any surplus after all vacation payments have been made, then the surplus shall be returned by the Parity Committee to the employer, together with a complete statement of the amounts remitted by the said employer to the employees, and the disbursements made therefrom.
XXXI.	THIRD WEEK'S VACATION PAY
Every employee who has been in the industry for at least five (5) consecutive
years by a contributing employer to the Pocket-book Workers' Health Benefit Fund, shall, if he has acquired the said five (5) years of consecutive employment on or before the first day of December, m any given year, and if he meets the eligibility, reguirements herein contained, (absence due to illness, slackness, lay-offs, pregnancy and/or other good or sufficient causes excepted) be entitled to receive a third week's vacation pay eguivalent to two (2) percent (2%) of the employee's total earnings calculated from July 01 of the preceding year to June 30 of the current year.
The amounts payable hereinunder shall be paid in the month of December of each year during the life of this agreement and payable from the vacation pay fund instituted for this purpose and administered by the Pocketbook Workers' Health Benefit Fund.
ELIGIBILITY FOR THIRD WEEK'S VACATION PAY
In order to qualify for the third week's vacation pay, herein above described, an employee shall as well
(a)	be available for employment the four (4) weeks immediately following the July vacation period
(absences due to illness, temporary lay-offs, pregnancy and other good and sufficient causes excepted);
(b)	be a member in good standing of the union;
(c)	be on the payroll of the employer and have Seen continuously employed by him up to and including the date of payment of the said third week's vacation pay (absences due to illness, temporary lay-offs,
-2 G-
pregnancy and other good and sufficient causes excepted).
XXXII	FOURTH AND FIFTH WEEKS'
VACATION PAY
Employees with fifteen (15) consecutive years of service in the industry shall be given a fourth week's vacation pay without time off, based on the same requirements as now exists for the third week's vacation pay.
Employees with twenty-four (24) consecutive years of service in the industry, and membership in the union, shall be given a fifth week's vacation pay without time off, based on the same requirements’“as now exists for the third week's vacation pay. The employees shall be paid only after they have been available for employment for four (4) weeks following the July vacation period. It is understood however, that should the eligible employees request time off for the fifth week's vacation, it may be granted providing, in the employer's discretion, it does not impede the production requirements and is at a time suitable for that purpose.
The fourth and fifth weeks' vacation pay shall be paid from the vacation pay fund constituted for this purpose and administered by the Pocketbook Worker's Health Benefit Fund.
XXXIII.	YEAR-END VACATION
All employees entitled to the third, fourth and fifth weeks' vacation pay shall be given the total time off between Christmas Day and the day after New Year's Day, as follows:
-2 7-
For the period of 1988—1989, employees entitled thereto, shall be off work from Monday, December 26, 1988, to Monday, January 02 1989, inclusive, returning to work Tuesday, January 03, 1989.
For the period of 1989-1990, employees entitled thereto, shall be off work from Monday, December 25, 1989, to Tuesday, January 02, 1990, inclusive, returning to work Wednesday, January 03, 1990.
For the period of 1990-1991, employees entitled thereto, shall be off work from Tuesday, December 25, 1990, to Wednesday, January 02, 1991, inclusive, returning to work Thursday, January 03, 1991.
XXXIV.	NOTICES OF DISCHARGE
AND LEAVING JOBS
An employer may discharge any employee for good and sufficient cause. The discharged employee, however, may file a grievance in the manner provided for in article XXXV entitled GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
Without in any way restricting the above provisions, an employee who is credited with three (3) months or over of uninterrupted service with the same employer is entitled to a prior notice in writing before being dismissed or being laidwoff for not less than six (6) months.
This prior .notice shall be of one week if the employee ispcredited with under one year of uninterruptyd service, two weeks if she/he is credited with one year to under five years of uninterrupted service, four weeks if she/he is credited with five to under ten years of uninterrupted service and eight
-23-
weeks if she/he is credited with ten years or over of uninterrupted service.
Except in the case of grave fault cif the employee or of a fortuitous event, an employer failing to give such prior notice must pay to the employee, at the time his employment terminates, a compensatory indemnity equal to the employee's wages for a period equal to the period of the prior notice.
No employee may resign or leave his position with an employer unless a notice of seven (7) clear days in writing is given by such employee to his employer and left at trie office of the employer.
XXXV.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
The purpose of this article is to establish a procedure for the settlement of grievances, which may include group grievances.
An employee who has a complaint relating to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this agreement may discuss the complaint with the foreman or forelady.
Such a complaint shall be brought to the attention of the foreman or forelady within five (5) working days of the incident giving rise to the complaint. The foreman or forelady shall state his/her decision verbally within three (3) working days of receiving the complaint. For the purpose of this article ((working days* shall be defined as any day upon which the plant in question is operating.
STEP 1
Should an employee be dissatisfied
29
with the foreman's or forelady's disposition
of the complaint, he/she may, with the assistance of his steward, refer such matter on a written grievance form applied by the union, to his factory manager or supervisor, who shall answer the grievance in writing within five (5) working days. The complaint shall constitute a formal grievance at Step 1 and shall be filed no later than eleven (11) working days from the date of the incident giving rise to the complaint. An individual grievance shall be signed by the employee.
STEP 2
Should an employee be dissatisfied with the disposition of the grievance at Step 1, the grievance may be referred to the general manager/employer who shall answer the grievance in writing within five (5) working days. The grievance must be filed at Step 2 within seven (7) working days of the receipt of the reply at Step 1.
STEP 3
If no settlement is reached at Step 2, the union business agent together with the grievor and the shop steward and representatives of management shall meet to discuss the grievance. If a grievance is not settled within seven (7) working days, excluding Saturdays and Sundays, after the Step 3 meeting, it may be referred to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
The union or the employer of the manufacturers' council may initiate a grievance beginning at Step 2 of the grievance procedure. Such grievance shall be filed within ten (10) working days of the incident giving rise to the complaint and be in the form prescribed in Step 1. Any such grievance may be referred to arbitration under
-30-
article XXXIX by either the union in the case of a union grievance or the employer in the case of an employer grievance.
No grievances may be submitted concerning the termination of employment, lay-off or disciplining of a probationary employee.
XXXVI.	ABSENCE ON SPECIAL
OCCASIONS__________
An employee may be absent from work for one (1) day without reduction of wages on his/her wedding day.
An employee may also be absent from work without pay on the wedding day of one of his/her children, and for two (2) days at the birth or adoption of a child.
XXXVII.	NO INDIVIDUAL CONTRACTS
No individual employer or employee may negotiate for a change of employment unless and until a working card has been issued to such employee prior thereto by the union.
No employer shall make any individual contract with any employee regarding conditions falling within the scope of this agreement. No agreement shall be made between any employer and any employee which guarantees any length of employment. Except in the case of apprentices, all individual wage adjustments or increases must be negotiated by representatives of the union and the council.
Apprentices schedules provided by this agreement must at all times be adhered to in these instances. No employee shall
31
negotiate directly with his or her employer on the matter of wage adjustments over and above the rates as provided for in this collective labour agreement.
XXXVIII.	THE MANUFACTURERS' COUNCIL,
ITS RIGHTS, PRIVILEGES AND OBLIGATIONS_______________
The union recognizes the need for the stabilization of wage rates and working conditions within the industry. The union further recognizes the Canadian Handbag Manufacturers' Council Inc.» as the sole collective bargaining agent for the manufacturers, members of the said «Canadian Handbag Manufacturers' Council Inc . » .
The principal purpose of the manufacturers' council is to help, together with the union, maintain an equalization of standards of labour within the industry and securing uninterrupted operation and general stabilization therein.
XXXIX.	DISPUTE BETWEEN UNION
AND EMPLOYER_________
In the case of any unresolved complaint, grievance or dispute between the union or its members and the council or any or all of its member-employers, same shall be submitted to a board of arbitration composed of one (1) person, representative of the employer and/or council, and one (1) person, representative of the union. The two (2) arbitrators thus appointed shall appoint a third who shall be the impartial chairman of the board of arbitration. In the event of the failure or inability of the arbitrators to appoint a third arbitrator or impartial chairman, either interested party may apply to the Department of Labour of the Province
-32-
of Quebec for appointment of such an impartial chairman.
The parties shall agree on and appoint an impartial chairman on all dispute arising from the labour agreement. He shall remain in office for a period of one (1) year and shall be Compensated by the parties to this agreement. The impartial chairman's further continuance shall be mutually determined by the parties to this agreement.
In the event of either party refusing to agree to participate in such arbitration, the board of arbitration shall hear the dispute in the absence of the defaulting party and shall render the decision ex-parte. Such decision shall be final and binding upon the defaulting party and the same force and effect as if the defaulting party were present. In the event of such defaulting party refusing to abide by the terms of the board of arbitration's decision, such party shall «ipso facto» and «de plein droit» be deprived of all rights and benefits under the present agreement:	the whole without prejudice
to the right of the other party for violation thereof.
In the case of a dispute affecting the industry as a whole, which is submitted to arbitration, no individual settlement with any employer shall be made by the union or its representatives pending such arbitra-t ion.
XL.	HEALTH BENEFIT KJsD
The parties hereto agree to continue the Pocketboot Workers' Health Benefit Fund as provided for in the preceding collective labour agreement.
33
The said fund shall be administered by a committee of eight (8) members comprising four (4) representatives of the party of the first part and four (4) representatives of the party of the second part. The committee shall establish and adopt regulations to:
provide for the administration and management of the said fund: and
determine the amount and conditions upon which members of the union may receive weekly cash indemnity and total permanent disability benefits and/or such other benefits which may be determined from time to time, including a third, fourth and fifth weeks' vacation pay as provided for in this aqreement,
The employers shall be the sole contributors to the Pocketbook Workers' Health Benefit Fund and shall make monthly payments thereto, in the amount of four and one-half (4 1/2%) percent of their respective total monthly payrolls from which an amount is assigned to the vacation pay fund.
The parties hereto agree that the required amount necessary to pay for the third, fourth and fifth weeks' vacation shall be assigned from the Pocketbook Workers' Health Benefit Fund to the vacation pay fund. The said vacation pay fund is to be administered by the Pocketbook Workers' Health Benefit Fund.
It is agreed that an actuarial study will be undertaken to determine the solvency of the fund for the purpose of initiating discussions towards improving benefits.
(a)
(b)
-34-
XLI.	SUPPLEMENTARY VACATION PAY
In addition to the vacation payments outlined herein, the employee shall receive eight tenths of one percent (8/10of 1 of his/her total gross pay as a supplementary vacation payment.
Total gross pay means: total gross pay, less the amounts withheld by the employer
f°r'	(a)	contributions	to a registered
retirement plan;
(b)	contributions	to the Quebec Pen-
sion Plan:
(c)	unemployment insurance premiums.
The eight tenths of one percent (8/10 of 1%) supplementary	vacation payment
shall be calculated on the basis of the employee's total gross pay earned from January 01 to December 31 of each year.
The employer must pay the said indemnity at the latest by March 15 of the following year. In the event that the employee terminates his employment, he shall be paid forthwith the eight tenths of one percent (8/10 of 1%) of his total gross pay earned from January 01 up to the date of termination.
XLII.	SOCIAL SECURITY PROVISION
IN THE DECREE_____________
Without in any way affecting the articles of this agreement, it is agreed that the following social security provision should be made part of the decree:
(a)	Every employer, either by con-
tract with a bona fide insurance company recognized by the superintendent of insurance, Province of Quebec or by contract with the
35
union herein named as representing the employees, shall provide a social security plan.
Such plan should provide employees with the following: sickness, accident, hospitalization, total disability benefits, in whole or in part. For the employer, it should represent a cost of at least four and one-half percent (4 1/2%) of his total monthly payroll.
(b)	Any such social security plan, introduced by the employer with an insurance company as described above, shall be subject to examination by the Parity Committee. Therefore, employers' records shall at all times be available for examination and inspection by the said Parity Committee, its inspectors and/ or other mandatories.
(c)	Should the Parity Committee find, after examining the records, that the plan implemented by the employer is not identical
or equivalent to that established by the industry, in accordance with the provisions of the agreement entered into between the contracting parties to this decree, or should the plan not be wholly for the benefit if its employees or should it not be in accordance with the spirit and intent of this section, or should an employer refuse to supply information or lay open the records of the plan in force in his enterprise, the Parity Committee may give the employer concerned notice by registered mail and request that he pays an amount equivalent to the complete cost of the premium for a plan approved by the Parity Committee. Such plan shall provide benefits as advantageous as those provided in the contract signed by the parties to this decree.
(d)	Any employer who does not introduce a social security plan with an insurance company and approved by the Parity Committee or does not introduce a social security plan
-36-
by contract with the union, herein named as representing the employees, or has no social security plan whatsoever, shall pay over to the said Parity Committee, on the tenth of each month, such percentage of his payroll for the preceding month as may be required to provide the benefits mentioned in subsection (c) of this section. The whole shall be determined by the Parity Committee whose decision shall be final.
KLIII,	DEFINITION OF CLASSIFICATION
(a)	The words «OUTSIDE CUTTER» mean
an employee who places the patterns on leather, plastic, fabric or any other material used in the making of the outside of handbags and/or any of the products falling under the jurisdiction of the agreement or parts thereof, and who cuts the said material with a short knife, a clicker or any other cutting device. If an outside cutter is required by the employer to cut linings and/or paper, or do any work ordinarily done by an inside cutter, he shall receive his prevailing rate of pay as an outside cutter.
(b)	The words «INSIDE CUTTER» mean
an employee who marks, when required to do so, and/or cuts with a short knife the patterns lining and/or any other material, and who marks and/or cuts with an electric saw, a clicker press, a platen die cutting press or any cutting device, lining and/or any other material, and cuts and trims paper and paperboard used in the making of the inside of a handbag and/ or the inside of any of the products or parts thereof subject to the jurisdiction of this agreement.
(c)	The words »FRAMER PUSH-UP» mean an employee who attaches push-up frames and/ or covered frames to the handbag.
-37-
(d)	The words «PRAMER RAIL AND CHILDREN'S ERAMB> mean an employee who attaches rail frames to the handbag, and who attaches frames to children's handbags.
(e)	The words «CHANGE PURSE FRAMER* mean an employee who attaches the frame to a change purse and/or works on pockets.
(f)	The words «HIGH POST MACHINE OPERATOR» mean an employee who performs any sewing operation on handbags or any of the products or parts thereof coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement, on the high post machine.
(I)	The words «FLAT MACHINE OPERATOR
(A)	» mean an employee who closes handbags by sewing all parts of the exterior together and who can perform any sewing operation in the making of the outside of the handbag or any of the products or parts thereof coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement, on a flat sewing machine with the exception of the sewing of handles, when the material is automatically fed to the sewing machine from a roll or other devices of continuous feeding instead of being fed manually to the machine by the operator.
(h)	The words «FLAT MACHINE OPERATOR
(B)	» mean an employee who performs the exte-
rior pocket sewing operation and can do any sewing operation in the making of the exterior of the handbag or any of the products or parts thereof coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement, on a flat sewing machine with the following exceptions:	closing of handbags by
sewing the exterior together and sewing of handles when the material is automatically fed to the sewing machine by rolls or other continuous feeding devices.
-38-
(i)	The words «LINING AND ACCESSORIES OPERATOR* mean an employee who sews any parts of the inside of the handbag and of the inside of any products or parts thereof falling under this agreement, and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing including any kind of change purses accessories sewn on the exterior of the handbag and/or inside pockets, on a flat sewing machine, as well as the sewing of handles when the material is automatically fed to the sewing machine by rolls or other continuous feeding devices.
(j)	The words «HEAT SEALER SET-UP MAN» mean an employee who performs the set-up operations required to operate the machine such as the setting of dies, the degrees of heat, the cycle time and other operations required before operating the machine.
(k)	The words «HEAT SEALER KKKI )T/R» mean an employee who gathers together parts of handbags, gussets and/or trimmings, and/or any of the other products or parts thereof falling under the jurisdiction of this agreement, joins
them together on the heat sealing machine, but without having to perform set-up operations involved in the setting-up of the machine.
(l)	The words «OUTSIDE FOLDER» mean an employee who folds by hand and/or machine, the exterior parts of the handbags or any of the products or parts thereof coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement, made out of any material.
(m)	The words ((LINING FOLDER» mean an employee who, by hand or by machine, folds the interior parts of the handbags and/or any of the other products falling under the jurisdiction of this agreement, made out of any material.
39
(n)	The word ((CEMENTER)) means an employee who applies with a compressed air sprayer or who applies manually with a brush or any other device, the glue, the cement or other type of adhesives, or any other material or products used in the making of the exterior or the interior of the handbags or any of the products or parts thereof coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement.
(o)	The word «STAPLER»means an employee who staples any part of the handbag ,or any of the products or parts thereof coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement, by manual or electric machine, but excludes stapling operations on the handles of the handbag.
(P)	The words «ORNAMENTER AND LOCK
FITTER): mean an employee who by machine or manually marks the material and places the ornament and/or lock on the handbag or on any of the products or parts thereof coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement.
(q)	The words ((RIVETER, HANDLE, EYE-
LETS AND BUTTON FITTER* mean an employee who rivets together parts of handbags, who attaches the handle to the handbags, marks the material and places the eyelets and buttons on the handbags or on any of the products or parts thereof coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement, by electric or manual machine .
(r)	The word «SKIVER» means an employ
ee who operates the machine to thin or reduce the edge of material used in the making of the handbags or any of the products or parts thereof coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement.
-40-
(s)	The word «TRIMMER» means an employee who trims loose ends of thread on the handbags or on any of the products coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement, after they are finished.
(t)	The words «PACKER AND INSPECTOR)) mean an employee who, after the handbags or any of the products coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement are finished, packs them with paper in order to give them shape, cleans and/or brushes and makes final inspection of them according to severe standards and/ or works on the blower and/or performs minor repairs when required to do so.
(u)	The word «PACKER» means an employee who, after the handbags or any of the products coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement are finished, packs them with paper
in order to give them shape, cleans and inspects them in a very superficial manner without having to perform minor repairs.
(v)	The words «TURNER AND SHAPER» mean an employee who turns over and/or reverses, by hand or by machine, the handbags or any other products coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement, and hammers, by hand or by machine, the seams of the gussets to give shape to the said handbags and such other products.
(w)	The word «TURNER» means an employee who turns over and/or reverses by hand or by machine, the handbags or children's handbags or any products coming under the jurisdiction of this agreement, without having to hammer them in order to give them shape.
(x)	The words «FRAME C0VEREB» mean an employee who covers frames, in whole or
in part, of any kind, with any kind of material.
-41-
(y)	The words ((GENERAL WORKER)) mean
an employee who is engaged to work and actually works in more than one of the classifications hereinabove defined, except those of cutter or framer.
The number of general workers in the shop shall not exceed three percent (3%) of the total number of employees in the said shop.
The general worker shall not be deemed to be an apprentice and he must receive 'at least the minimum rate of wages specified hereinafter.
(z)	The word «HELPER» means an employ-
ee who performs any work not specified in the foregoing definitions, including the employee who prepares the paper for the cutter and opens the frames for the framer.
(aa) The word «APPRENTICE» in any one .classificationhereinabove defined means a beginner in the handbag industry in Canada.
(bb) The words «FOREMAN, ASSISTANT-FOREMAN and/or FORELADY AND ASSISTANT-FORELADY» mean an employee in charge of and who supervises a department or group of workers in the factory or plant, all with the restrictions, rights and privileges provided for in article XV of this agreement.
(cc) The word «DESIGNER» means an employee who designs, sketches or makes patterns relating to the products manufactured, with 'the restrictions, rights and privileges provided in article XV of this agreement.
(dd) The word «SUPERVISOR» means an employee or any person who oversees, directs,
-42-
manages or supervises part or all of the company's operation, all as determined by the employer.
(ee) The words «HEAD SHIPPER» mean an employee who is a foreman of forelady and who manages and/or supervises the complete operation of the shipping, warehouse and billing departments, also, participates in management's decision making process relative to the above departments and may, from time to time, perform any one or more of the functions of a shipping clerk or helper.
(ff) The words «ASSISTANT-HEAD SHIPPER»
mean an employee who performs all or any one of the functions of the head shipper, directed and supervised by the head shipper.
(gg) The words ((SHIPPINGAND WAREHOUSE
CLERK- (LEADER)» mean an employee who is a leader of a section of the shipping and/or warehouse departments and has been given the authority by the employer, to provide guidance, direction and training to a group of employees in his/her designated section of the shipping or warehouse departments to ensure a proper performance of work. The shipping and warehouse clerk-leader has no authority to hire, terminate, transfer, promote, demote or suspend any employee. The shipping and warehouse clerk-leader shall receive instructions from the head shipper or assistant-head shipper and will carry out such instructions in conformity with the terms of the collective labour agreement, and is also engaged in performing any one or more of the services rendered by a shipping and warehouse clerk.
(hh) The words ((SHIPPING AND WAREHOUSE CLERK» mean an employee who performs any one or more of the following services required in
-43-
and around the shipping and warehouse departments :
clean and pack the products with paper to give it shape:
packing and closing of boxes and cartons: loading and unloading of trucks: order picking and distribution: stock-keeping and inventory: assorting and expedition of orders: shipping of merchandise to the customer: receiving merchandise for and on behalf of employer:
maintenance and cleaning of shipping and warehouse area.
XLIV,	STABILITY OF WAGES OR CONDITIONS
Employers actually paying higher weekly rates of wages or granting better conditions than those fixed by the present agreement are prohibited from reducing them and must maintain the present rate of payment for the duration of this agreement.
XLV.	BEREAVEMENT PAY
In the case of death of a member of the employee's immediate family, the employer shall grant the employee three days leave of absence with regular pay, beginning with the day of death up to and including the day of the funeral, providing the days are working days and providing the employee loses time on a regular scheduled work day.
((Immediate family» shall include the employee's spouse or common-law spouse, child, mother, father, sister, brother, spouse's mother and father.
The employer will also grant one (1) day leave of absence with regular pay to attend the funeral of grandparents provided that the employee loses time on a regular scheduled work day.
-44-
At the request of the employer, the employee shall produce proof of death and the relationship to the person involved, according to law.
To qualify for such leave, an employee must be employed in the industry for one (1) full year, and must work in the same factory for a period of two (2) months prior to the granting of such leave of absence.
XLVI.	REST PERIODS
In factories where two (2) daily ten (10) minutes rest periods are existent, same shall be continued. However, in factories where rest periods are non-existent, a consensus will be undertaken among the employees in these individual factories. If the employees are favourably disposed towards rest periods, discussions with the employers concerned will be initiated.
XLVII.	EXTENSION OF COLLECTIVE
LABOUR AGREEMENT TO INDUSTRY
Upon signature of the present agreement, the parties hereto agree to apply jointly to His Excellency, the Lieutenant-Governor- in -Council to amend further the decree respecting the handbag industry, Order-in-Council No. 233 as amended to date, to include in the said decree such changes in terms, conditions and clauses of the present agreement, as the parties may agree.
XLVI 11 .	DURATION OF AGREEMENT
AND RETROACTIVITY
This agreement shall remain in force for a period of three (3) years, commencing January 01, 1988, and terminating December 31, 1990.
It is understood and agreed
-45-
that the increase in wages embodied in this agreement shall have retroactive application to all employees on the payroll of the employer on or after January, 01, 1988, and the employer agrees to remit to the said employees all adjustments and arrears necessary to give effect to this paragraph.
XLIX.	RENEWAL OF AGREEMENT
Sixty (60) days prior to the termination of this agreement, the parties hereto agree to meet to discuss the continuation of this agreement for such further period of time
and on such terms and conditions as they may,
through negotiation, determine.
-46IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE SIGNED THESE PRESENTS ON THE 14th DAY OF JUNE 1988,
CANADIAN HANDBAG MANUFACTURERS COUNCIL INC.

LOCAL 9, CANADIAN COUNCIL INTERNATIONAL LEATHER GOODS, PLASTICS AND NOVELTY WOR-
WITNESS :
47
INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYERS, MEMBERS CANADIAN HANDBAG MANUFACTURERS' COUNCIL INC.
ALANA PLASTICS & PACKAGING INC.

LA BELLE HANDBAGS
BELGO-LUX HANDBAGS	LES SACS A MAIN
INC._______________ MAXIME INC.___________
CABRELLI INC.
MAROQUINERIE
MASTERCRAFT LTEE
SAC A MAIN FLORIAN
INC.	
	CL
SALINA LEATHER GOODS LTD	
TV i rt-1	
■ 7 1 cVW	
	
B A R fe M E-tAt-=-SCHEDULE--------"A"-
ticHKT.T.K DE SALAIRES MINIMA - MINIMUM SCALE OF WAGES
Emplois - classifications__________01/01/88____01/01/89
01/01/90
GROUPE VI
Coupeur d'exterieurs, monteur "push up"
GRADE VI
Outside cutter, push-up framer
Periode d'apprentissage Period of apprenticeship
a etre complete to be completed
//
Premier mois/lst month 2 a 3 mols/2 to 3 months 4 a 6 mois/4 to 6 months 7 a 9 mois/7 to 9 months 10 a 12 mois/10 to 12 months 13 a 15 mois/13 to 15 months 16 a 18 mois/16 to 18 months 19 a 21 mo is/19 to 21 months 22 a 24 mois/22 to 24 months
7.02
7.64
8.25
8.87
9.49
-1-5,4=