THE CAMBRIDGE TOWEL CORPORATION -and-
ELCO KITCHEN PRODUCTS LIMITED -and-
FASHION SCREEN PRINT LTD.
(hereinafter designated as the "Companies")
and
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION AFL-CIO-CLC
(hereinafter designated as the "Union")
INDEX
ARTICLE
1	GENERAL PURPOSE
2	RECOGNITION
3	MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
4	DISCRIMINATION AND UNION ACTIVITY
5	STEWARDS
6	GRIEVANCE TIME LIMITATIONS
7	ARBITRATION
8	STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
9	SENIORITY PROVISIONS
10	WAGES
11	WORK STANDARDS
12	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
13	PLANT HOLIDAYS
14	VACATIONS
15	SAFETY AND HEALTH
16	BULLETIN BOARDS
17	UNION SECURITY
18	CORRESPONDENCE
19	MODIFICATION, RENEWAL AND TERMINATION
WAGES
LETTER OF INTENT NO. I LETTER OF INTENT NO. 2 LETTER OF INTENT NO. 3 LETTER OF INTENT NO. 4 LETTER OF INTENT NO. 5 LETTER OF INTENT NO. 6 SCHEDULE “A”
SCHEDULE "B"
SCHEDULE "C"
PAGE
2
2
3
3
3
5
7
8 8
19
21
22
24
26
29
30 30 32
32
34
34
35
35
36 36
36
37
38
39
1
THIS AGREEMENT entered into at Cambridge, Ontario as of
the 5th day ofNovember, 1991.
BY AND BETWEEN:
THE CAMBRIDGE TOWEL CORPORATION and
ELCO KITCHEN PRODUCTS LIMITED and
FASHION SCREEN PRINT LTD.
(hereinafter designated as the “Companies”)
-and -
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION,
AFL-CIO-CLC
(hereinafter designated as the “Union”)
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE 1 -GENERAL PURPOSE
1.01	This Agreement is entered into by the parties hereto in order to provide for orderly collective bargaining relations between the Companies and their employees. It is the desire of all these parties to co-operate in maintaining an harmonious relationship between the Companies and their employees, and to amicably settle differences or grievances which may arise from time to time hereunder in themanner hereinafter set out.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Companies recognize the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agency with respect to all matters arising under this Agreement for all their employees employed in or about their mill situated in Cambridge, Ontario, save and except assistant foremen, assistant foreladies, persons above the rank of assistant foreman and assistant forelady, laboratory personnel, designing and office staff, and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
2.02	“Employee” defined
The word “employee” or “employees”, wherever used in this Agreement, shall mean any or all of the employees in thebargaining unit as defined above except where the context otherwise provides.
2.03	Where the masculine pronoun is used herein it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context so applies.
6
ARTICLE 3 -MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusivef unction
of the Companies to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	hire, discharge, classify, direct, transfer, promote, demote ana suspend or otherwise discipline employees, subject to the provisions of this Agreement; ana
(c)	generally manage the industrial enterprise in which the Companies are engaged, including all matters concerning the operation of the Companies' business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Agreement, and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine theproducts to De manufactured, methods of manufacture, schedule of production, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, process of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of their products, the control of the materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced, the extension, limitations, curtailment, or cessation of operations.
3.02	The Companies agree that these functions will be subject to, and exercised in amanner consistent with the terms of this Agreement and the rights of the Union.
ARTICLE 4 - DISCRIMINATION AND UNION ACTIVITY
4.01	There will be no discrimination, intimidation or
coercion by the Companies, their officers or representatives, or by the Union, its officers or members, against any employee for any reason.
4.02	No Union activities shall be pursued on the Companies’ premises except as permitted by this Agreement, or with prior approval of the Companies.
ARTICLE 5 - STEWARDS
5.01	The Companies acknowledge the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select stewards, who shall be permanent regular employees with seniority, and employed in the department or departments they represent.
The number of stewards, and the zones each represents shall be determined to the mutual satisfaction of the parties. Each steward shall represent only those employeesin his agreed zone except as he may beading as a member of the grievance committee.
The Union will supply the Companies with a list of stewards showing the zone for which each is
3
responsible. The Companies will be notified in writing eadi time a steward resigns or is appointed and will not be required to recognize, as a steward, any employee whose name does not appear on the list.
In the event of the resignation of a zone steward, the Union will insure that the vacancy is filled within two (2) calendar weeks thereafter, and the name of the new steward delivered to the Companies. The above time limit may be extended by mutual agreement.
5.02	Chief Stewards
In addition to the above stewards, the Companies will recognize a Chief Steward who may be appointed or otherwise selected to represent that plant wherein the Union president is not employed. Such Chief Steward may assist departmental stewards and also act in place of an absent departmental steward as may the Local president in the other plant.
5.03	Payment to Stewards
With the exception of contract negotiations (see 5.06 below), the Companies will not be required to pay for any time spent by the Union stewards or by members of the Union committee in servicing grievances or at meetings with the Companies outside their regular working hours.
5.04	Permission to act during working hours
It is understood that stewards have their regular duties to perform on behalf of the companies. If it is necessary for a steward to service a grievance during working hours, he shall not leave his department without first securing permission from his immediate supervisor.
If requested, he shall give a reasonable explanation of why he deems such action to be necessary When resumingjiis regular duties, he shall again report to his supervisor. ~
Should it become necessary for a steward, in the performance of his duties as a steward, to contact another employee, he will first secure the permission of such other person’s supervisor. Such permission will not be unduly withheld.
5.05	Meetings with Management
Where it is necessary for Union representatives, grievers or witnesses to meet with Management representatives, permission for time off will not be unreasonably withheld.
4
5.06	Union Committee
When it is necessary for the Union to confer with the Companies on any matter(s), a committee of four (4) seniority employees, assisted by a Union representative, shall represent the members of the bargaining unit. For purposes of this provision, the term ‘Union representative" shall not berestricted to business agents or the Joint Board, or other employees or the International Union, nor shall the provision be construed as limiting the calling of such witness as may be required.
The Companies agree to pay the individual members of the Union committee for all time lost by them as a result of their involvement in negotiationsfor a renewal of the collective agreement.
When meetings take place between the Companies and the Union for purposes other than for the renewal of the collective agreement, grievance meetings,, and arbitration hearings, the Companies reserve the right to limit participation by bargaining unit members to a reasonable number from each affected classification for a particular committee or subcommittee provided that in exercising this right, they refrain from making capricious and arbitrary decisions,
ARTICLE 6 -GRIEVANCE TIME LIMITATIONS
6.01	An employee may not lodge a grievance on any subject unless he has first presented the subject as a complaint to his foreman within ten (10) calendar days of the occurrence or within ten (10) calendar days of the date whereon the employee could be assumed to have known of the occurrence, and further, the erpi loyee presents the written grievance tohis foreman whim ten (10) workin da s of the date whereon the employee received ti e oreman's answer to the original complaint.
6.02	Grieverresponsibility
If an employee has a grievance, it shall be reduced to writing onfcrms supplied by the Union, It is agreed that pendinethe investigation and settlement of his grievance, the employee will not be absolved from performing the duties assigned to him, subject to the provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act. The grievance will then be taken up in the following manner and sequence.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
Step No. / -Between the aggrieved employee,
5
departmental steward and the foreman of the department involved. The foreman shall render his decision in writing within three (3) working days. Failing settlement, it shalt be taken up within three (3) workine.jlavp as follows.
Step No, 2 - Between the aggrieved employee, departmental steward and the superintendent. The decision shall be given in writing within five (S) working days. Failing settlement, it shalt be taken up within fi/e .(S working days as follows.
Step No. 3 - Between-the-grievance committee and a representative of Management. A representative of the Union may be present at this stage at the request of either of the parties, and the decision shalt be given in writing within five (5) working days.
6.03	Arbitration
Failing a settlement under the above procedure of any difference concerning the interpretation or administration of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable or whether an allegation is made that this agreement has been violated, the matter in dispute may be taken to arbitration as provided in Article 7, and if no written request is received within thirty-one (31) calendar days of the Companies’ reply to Step No. 3, the grievance shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned.
6.04	Policy Grievance
Any difference or grievance arising directly between the
Companies and the Union may be submittedin writing by either party at step No. 3.
6.05	Witnesses
At any stage of the grievance procedure, including arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned and any necessary witnesses, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plan t to view disputed operations and to confer with the necessary witnesses.
6.06	Time Limit Extensions
Anv and all time limits fixed bv this Article and Article 7 may, at any time, be extended by written agreement between the Companies and the Union.
6.07	Decisions Binding
All decisions arrived at between the Companies and the representatives of the Union shall be final and binding upon the Companies, the Union, and the employee or
S
employees concerned.
6.08	Suspension and Discharge Cases
A new employee will be considered as a probationary employee until he has actually completed sixty (60) days of work for the Companies in a period of six (6) consecutive months. The Union may question the suspension, dismissal or layoff of any probationary employees; however, such suspension, dismissal or layoff will not be the subject of a grievance,
6.09	Notice of Discharge
In cases of discharge, the Companies will have a Union Committee member present at the discharge meeting, to enable such employees his representation. Should a Union Representative not be available then the Company must inform the Union of all the facts as soon as possible.
6.10	Unjust Discharge Claims
A claim by a permanent seniority employee that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written, signed statement of such grievance is lodged with the Personnel Manager within five (5) working days of the discharge date, and Steps Nos. i and 2 ofthe Grievance Procedure will be omit ted in such cases.
6.11	Such special grievances may be settled under the grievance and arbitration procedures by:
(a)	confirming, the Companies’ action in dismissing the permanent’ employee;
(b)	reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost; or
(c)	by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
ARTICLE 7 -ARBITRATION
7.01	After having completed Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure, either party may request the matter be submitted to arbitration, as herein provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this agreement, within thirty-one (31) calendar days, advising the other party of its intent to proceed to arbitration. In said written notice the party shall propose to its nominees to act as a sole arbitrator.
Should that Party's nominees be unacceptable, the other Party shall propose alternate names. If the parties cannot agree on the selection of an arbitrator within fifteen (15) calendar days after the date the original
7
written notice was received, either party may request the Ontario Minister of Labour to appoint one. The decision of the arbitrator shalt be final and binding on both Parties,
The time limits specified in the foregoing may be extended by mutual agreement.
7.02	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all the required steps of the grievance procedure, except as may be agreed upon at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure.
7.03	No person may be appointed as an-arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
7.04	The arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
7.05	The expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared jointly by the Company and the Union,
7.06	Either party may, by giving notice to the other party during the last month of the Agreement, revert the arbitration procedure to that which existed in the Collective Agreement, which expired on October 31, 1988.
ARTICLE 8 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
8.01	In view of the orderly procedure for settling grievances, the Companies agree that they will not cause or direct any lockout of their employees. The Union agrees that there will be no strike, slowdown or other concerted activity on the part of the employees in the bargaining unit which will stop, curtail or interfere with work or production.
ARTICLE 9 - SENIORITY PROVISIONS
9.01	Seniority will be based on the length of the employee’s continuous service with the Companies. For employees with less than five (5) years continuous service, seniority will be recognized on a departmental basis only. For employees with five (5) years or more continuous service, seniority will be recognized on both departmental and plant-wide bases.
9.02	Probationary Period
A new employee wilt be considered on probation and will not be placed on the seniority list until he has actually completed sixty (60) days of work for the Companies in a period of six (6) consecutive months and
8
his seniority shall commence to accrue from the date he actually commenced to work for the Companies as a bargaining unit employee.
The provisions of this paragraph shall apply only to employees hired on a permanent basis. They shall not apply to employees ired on a temporary basis to replace employees on the permanent staff who may be absent due to illness, leave of absence, or for other legitimate reasons, nor will they apply to persons temporarily hired to meet some emergency. The employment of persons hired as temporary employees shall not exceed ninety (90) days of work unless extended by mutual consent of the parties hereto.
Such temporary employees shall have no seniority, nor shall their probationary periods commence until such time as they are confirmed in what is considered a permanent assignment.
9.03	Preferential Seniority
Notwithstanding their ordinary status under the
£ revisions of this article, departmental stewards of the Inion and Union committee members during their resDective terms of office, but not otherwise, shall enjoy topseniority in their own departments for the purpose of layoff and recall. If a steward or committee member is suspended for misconduct or other just cause, any rights or privileges he is entitled to under theprovisions of Clause 9.03 shall not apply to him during the term of his suspension,
9.04	Supplementary workers
Employees whose regularly-scheduled work week is not more than thirty (3Q) hours are to be designated as “supplementary” workers, and the regular seniority provisions in respect of layoff andrecall shall not apply to such employees. However, special departmental seniority lists shall be established for such supplemental^ workers and shall be applicable only to them and strictly on a departmental basis. When it is necessary to reduce or increase the number of supplementary workers, they shall be laid off and rehired in accordance with their seniority standing as designated on such seniority lists, subject to paragraph 9.09 below. However, such employees shall have the right to transfer to a full-time basis provided there is a jobvacancy.
9
9.05 Seniority Lists
Separate seniority lists shall be established for each of the following departments or groups of departments.
4. Stockroom and Shipping 8. Fashion Seniority lists will be providedon demand.
9.06	Transfers
An employee transferred from one department or group of departments to another sha 11 retain his seniority in his former group for a period of thirty (30) working days, after which time his seniority shall be credited to the department or group of departments in which he is then working, unless this period is extended by mutual agreement of the parties. However, employees designated as supplementary workers whose work week is thirty (30) hours or less shall transfer only 50% of the seniority accumulated on such part-time basis when transferring to a job on a full-time basis.
9.07	Temporary Transfers
In cases of temporary transfers for less than ninety (90) days, or any longer period by mutual agreement between the Companies and the Union, the employee shall retain his seniority in the original group from which he was transferred. It is agreed that the Union will be provided with a copy ofany such temporary transfer that is expected to exceed thirty (30) working days.
9.08	When promotions, demotions or transfers in excess of thirty (30) working days occur, the Companies will notify the recording secretary of the local Union in writing of what has taken place and why.
9.09	Notice of Layoff
Except in cases of emergency, the Companies will give reasonable notice of impending layoffs.
9.10	Layoffs and Recalls
(a)	Seniority shall be the governing factor in the matter of the layoff and recall of employees on a classification, group or departmental basis and where the seniority of those scheculed for layoff or recall warrants it, on a plant wide basis. .
The last employee hiredshall be the first laid off and the senior employee on layoff will be recalled firs t provided
1.	Preparation
2.	Weaving
3.	Maintenance
10
that those employees with seniority who remain and/or are recalled are capable of performing the required work efficiently.
Where a layoff is to exceed two (2) weeks, employees with seniority who can show that by virture of previous direct or related experience they should be able to perform the required work, will be allowed reasonable time to prove the fact.
It is understood that layoffs of one (1) day or less could, in some instances, have a serious adverse effect on the Companies’ production requirements, as well as deflating earnings of employees.
Notwithstanding the provisions above, the Companies may lay off employees out of seniority provided no individual is laid off for an aggregate total in excess of twentv-five (25) hours, unless extended by mutual agreement, in any twelve (12) month period ending with the month the calculation is made.
(b)	An employee shall be considered to have been laid off when he has been prevented by the Companies from working more than seventy-five per cent (75%) of the number of hours he would otherwise have worked in any regular scheduled shift, except as provided for in clause 10.03 below.
When it is necessary to decrease the number of employees in a department, such reduction will be made as follows:
(c)	Part-time, temporary, supplementary and probationary
employees in the department will be the first to be laid off provided that the remaining employees arequalified ana willing to perform the work required. The employees who remain will be accorded-a reasonable familiarization period, to be determined by the type of work required, but m no case shall it be more than three .(3) davs worked on such job.
(d)	If further lay-offs are necessary, employees will be laid off in the inverse order of seniority, provided those retained are willing and qualified to perform the work required, and will be given the above familiarization period, subject to the fill owing conditions:
(i)	Seniority employee, if not the junior employee in his or her classification, will be assigned to work being performed by the most junior employee in the same classification on the same shift.
(ii)	The employee so displaced, provided he or she has the necessary seniority, Wllbe assigned to work being performed by the most junior employeeon the
11
same shift (subject to Article 9.01) or, at the employee’selection, to workbeingperformedby the most junior employee in the same classification on another shift.
Note: For the purposes of this article, the Companies may group classificationsinto a single classification.
(e)	When the Companies decide to Increase the work force in a deuartment. the most senior laid-off person from the department (whether he/she has exercised his/her seniority to transfer to another department or whether he/she is still on lay-off) will be recalled to the department in accordance with his/her seniority provided he/she is willing and qualified to perform the work required. An empibyee so recalled may, upon mutual agreement between the Companies and the Union, remain in the department in which he is currently employed, in which case the employee shall forfeit his right to the opening in question, but shall retain and accumulate seniority in such department for a period of three (3) months, after which period he/she shall be credited with his/her full seniority in such new department.
(f)	When a vacancy exists in a classification from which an employee has been displaced due to a lay-off, the senior employee so displaced will be offered the opportunity to fill tne vacancy before it isposted by the Companies, regardless of whether the employee' is presently on lay-off or is working in another classification. Should an employee presently workingin another classification refuse such opportunity the Companies shall not be obliged to offer the next vacancy in the same classification to that employee. Should an enployee on lay-off refuse such opportunity, Article 9:7 (c) shall prevail.
(g)	In the event of a layoff an employee with three (3) years or more seniority may exercise fni9 seniority on a plant wide basis to displace a probationary employee provided that he/she is capable and willing to perform the required work and no significant training is required.
9.11	Request for Transfer and Job Posting
(a)	Any seniority employee wishing to transfer to another position either within or outside his classification, or to another shift may submit a written application for such transfer to the Personnel Department on a form supplied by the Companies. The Personnel Department shall immediately, or as soon thereafter as
12
possible, acknowledge, in writing, receipt of the employee’s application. All such applications shall be retained, and remain valid, in the Voluntary Transfer Files of the Personnel Department for a period of six (6) months.
The Companies are bound to consider the transfer applications, which are in the Voluntary Transfer Files, of employees who have one (1) or more years of seniority when a vacancy occurs within an-existing classification, subject to the provisions of clause 9.12 of this collective agreement.
When new machinery displaces any employee from an existing classification, the Companies and the Union may give him preference in filling the job created by
As and when each appoin tment is made, the Companies
shall post a notice to that effect on the bulletin boards; the notice shall contain the name of the successful applicant and he shall be Placed in his new position as soon as practicable following his appointment,
(b)	When a vacancy! other than a temporary vacancy, or a new permanent job is not filled through the application of 9.11 (a) above, such position shall be posted on the bulletin boards for no less than two (2) working days, and shall list the classification and class, rate of pay, and all other pertinent information. Space shall be provided on the notice where employees, who wish to apply for the job, shall enter their names.
In applying the provisions of 9.11 (b) to the filling of vacancies or new jobs, and with the overall efficiency of the operation of their businesses in mind, the Companies may take into consideration the skill, ability, qualifications, training, physical fitness (without violating the Ontario Human Rights Code) and personal record of the applicants:. Where the skill, ability, qualifications, training, physical fitness and personal records are relatively equal) seniority shall be the governing factor. If there is no eligible applicant employee who, after a period of familiarization, would meet the qualifications for the posted job, the Companies may fill the job by other means.
As and when each appointment is made, the Companies shall post a notice to that effect on the bulletin boards; the notice shall contain the name of the successful
13
applicant and he shall be placed in his new position as soon as practicable following his appointment.
The Company shall be required topost onlytheprimary vacancy after the application of 9.11 (a) above; any vacancy arising as a result of the filling of the primary vacancy may be filled by other means.
(c) If an applicant chosen under the terms of 9.11 (a) or(b) above later proves unable to perform the job successfully at any time within his first sixty (60) calendar days on the new job or if, during the firstfif teen (IS) calendar days on the new job, he requests that he be returned to his former job, he shall be returned to his former job and shift as soon as reasonably possible. In that event, the vacated job may be filled through the provisions of 9.11(a) or (b), whichever is applicable.
(d)	If conditions change, and such changes are not the result of hiring new employees, and the Companies consequently find they no longer need to assign a successful applicant to the new job, or if the Companies decide to delay the assignment for a period longer than thirty (30) working days, notice to that effect shall be posted on the bulletin boards, and such successful applicant shall not thereby be bound by the provisions of9.11(f) below.
(e)	When vacancies, in job classifications which require a six (6) month or longer apprenticeship, or which have an asterisk (*) beside them in Schedule 'IE", meed to be filled, the Companies may hire from outside only when the applicant’s qualifications are considerably superior to those of eligible employees who have applied for such vacancies under the provisions of 9.11 (a) and/or (b) above.
(f)	Except by agreement of the parties hereto, no employee who has transferred through the application of 9.11(a) or (b) above may use that particular provision again until at least one (1) year has elapsed from the date his previous application for transfer was granted.
(g)	An employee who confirms his intention to transfer through the application of 9.11 (a) or (b) above, and who reverses his decision, shallnot be eligible to use the same provision again until atTeast one(l) year has elapsed from the date his previous application to transfer was granted, except in the following circumstances:
(i)	he reverses his decision at the Companies’ request prior to making the transfer;
(ii)	he reverses his decision for acceptable medical
reasons;
14
(iii)	he is affected by a reduction in the work force;
(iv)	he is removed from the job because, in the judgement of the Companies, he is unable to perform the required work satisfactorily.
(h)	While the Companies are in the process of filling a vacancy or new job on a permanent basis by the application of 9.11 (a) or (b) above, the job may be filled on a temporary basis at their discretion, and a notice to that effect shall be posted on the bulletin boards, and shall include the name of the temporarily-assigned employee. The experience which such employee gains whileperforming in such temporary capmttyjiowever, shallnotbe taken into account bytheCompaniesin their search for a suitable applicant to fill the position on a permanent basis.
The Companies agree to supply the Union committee with copies of all notices required under the terms of this clause 9.11,
9.12	Promotions
In the case of promotions, transfers and opportunities for advancement within the bargaining unit, seniority shall be the deciding factor, provided the employees concerned have relatively equal qualifications.
9.13	Unjust Demotion Claims
In the case of demotions, if an employee feels he has been treated unjustly he shall have recourse to the grievance procedure and return to his previous job if it is found he was unjustly demoted.
9.14	Supervisory Promotions
Promotions to supervisory positions shall not be subject to the provisions of this Agreement. It is clearly understood that foremen and assistant foremen will only perform jobs related to their position.
9.15	An employee who is transferred to a position which is not in the baigaining unit shall retain his seniority rights for twelve (12) months and his job rights for a period of three (3) months.
9.16	Military Service
The seniority of employees serving in Her Majesty’s Forces shall be respected in accordance with the Reinstatement in Civil Employment Act, 1942 (as amended).
9.17	Loss of Seniority
An employee shall lose all seniori ty and the employee’s employment shall be deemed to be terminated under the following conditions:
15
(a)	voluntarily quits the employ of the Companies (see Letter of Intent);
(b)	is justifiably discharged;
(c)	following a lay-off and on being notified to return, fails to advise the Companies within five (5) days of his intention to return, and fails to return within eight (8) days of receiving such notification;
(d)	is absent without proipr notification to the Companies for more than one (I) working day. An employee having been absent without proper notification to the Companies for more than one (1) working day may be considered to have severed his employment with the Companies if, having been given a reasonable opportunity (having regard to all the circumstances) he should fail to present proof of his inability to notify the Companies;
(e)	has been laid off or is off due to legitimate illness in excess of the allowable periods below:
1.	Employees with three to twelve months seniority; allowable break equivalent to one-half his seniority.
2.	Employees with twelve months to four years seniority; allowable period equivalent to his length of seniority up to one year.
3.	Employees with more than four years seniority shall not lose any seniority due to prolonged legitimate illness.
An employee may be laid off while on a leave of absence, and such employee’s lay-off shall be considered to have started at the time of the lay-off and not at the start of the leave of absence.
9.18	Address Changes
It shall be the duty of employees to notify the Companies promptly of any change of address or telepnonenumber. If an employee should fail to do this, the Companies will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach him.
9.19	An employee shall not lose anv seniority because of absence due to sickness, accident or other unavoidable reasons, subject to the provisions of 9.17 above. If an employee finds that he is unable to report for work, he will notify the Personnel Office during office hours or his own foreman before the start of his shift, or as soon thereafter as possible.
An employee who is receiving Worker’s Compensation or Weekliy Indemnity payments shall notify the Company as soon as possible when he is available to
16
return to work and shall provide the Company with a medical certificate. The Company shall not be required to allow such an employee to return to work unless it has been notified during the prior shift of the employee’s intention to return to work.
9.20	Leave of Absence
(a)	Leave of absence may be ranted for legitimate reasons and will be granteao elegated members to attend Union conventions and conferences. It is agreed that such leave will not be unreasonably withheld. A11 requests for leave of absence shall be made In writing to the Personnel Department three (3) months prior to date of intended leave stating thereason for the leave and the requested duration thereof. A copy of an employee’s request for leave of absence shall be forwarded to the Union. The Companies will reply to a written request for a leave of absence within four (4) weeks of the date of the said request. Where a leave of absence is denied the Companies will notify the employee in writing of the reason for the denial of such leave with copy to be provided to the Union.
(b)	Leave of absence will not be granted to accept employment outside of the Companies which are party to this Agreement, except tcprsons on medical leave. Upon commencing to work elsewhere, an employee on leave of absence other than medical leave shall be considered to have voluntarily left the Companies’ employ. An exsptTon tto this provision may be made to an employee wishing tto accept employment with the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union
(c)	On Remembrance Day (November 11 th) the Company
will grant a maximum of three (3) hours unpaid leave of absence for any employee who wishes to attend Remembrance Day services^ provided the employee has so notified his supervisor no later than 4:00 P.M. on November 4th.
9.21	Pregnancy Leave
Leave of absence may be granted on the following basis to female employees who are pregnant, provided they have attained nine (9) months seniority:
(a)	The employee will be permitted to work up to the end of the sixth month of her term but may be required to leave earlier on advice from the plant nurse or competent medical authority;
(b)	The employee may return to work with full seniority provided she advises the companies, within (twee 0) months of delivery of her intention to return, and
17
returns within four (4) months following delivery. This period of time will be extended, to a maximum of six months after delivery, if a request for same is submitted based on the written advice of a qualified physician.
(c) An employee who intends to resume her employment at the expiration of her pregnancy leave shall be reinstated-in accordance with the provisions of section 38 of the Employment Standards Act,
9.22	Bereavement Leave
Should a bereavement occur in an employee's immediate family, he may request a bereavement leave and will be allowed reasonable leave to attend the funeral or conduct related business whererequired. He will be reimbursed at his average hourly earnings for the time granted on such leave provided that the total amount of such reimbursement shall not exceed the aggregate of three (3) days pay.
The Companies may require proof of the event, facts and relationship before making reimbursements as above.
Should a bereavement occur in an employee’s immediate family and the employee does not attend the funeral, he may request a bereavement leave of one day and will be paid for one lost regularly scheduled work day within the three consecutive day period following the date of death.
The term “immediate family” shall mean an employee’s spouse, father or mother, brother or sister, children, child of spouse, stepchild, father-in-law or mother-in-law, sister-in-law or brother-m-law, legal guardian, grandparent or grandchild, stepfather or stepmother, stepbrother or stepsister, son-in-law or daughter-in-law.
In the event that the employee's spouse is not by marriage, but rather through a common-law relationship, then the employee must have been co-habiting with his common-law spouse for a period of one (1) year and such fact is reported and in the company records.
In the event of a common-law relationship the term “in-laws” referred to in this clause will be the relatives of the common-law spouse.
18
ARTICLE 10 -WAGES
10.01	The Companies agree to pay and the Union agrees to
accept for the term of this Agreement, the schedule of wagerates for the job classifications in effect at the date hereof and as set out in Schedule “A”, which forms part of this Agreement.
10.02	Temporary Transfers
An employee temporarily transferred to another job classification to meet production requirements or due to machine breakdown will be paid at therate of the new job, or on the basis of his/her average hourly earnings, whichever is the higher.
An employee temporarily transferred to another job classification for reason of lack of available work on his regular job shall be paid at the rate of the new job, or at the “base rate”, whichever is the higher.
A temporary transfer will not fflreefflfthirty(30) working days, unless extended by agreement of the parties hereto.
10.03	Reporting Allowance
The Company agrees that an employee who has commenced work, or who is reporting for work at his/her regular time, unless previously notified to the contrary, shall be furnished with four (4) hours work or given four (4) hours pay at his average hourly earnings in lieu thereof. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply in the event of power or steam failure, fire, flood, or other condition beyond the control of the Company.
10.04	Call-in Pay
If an employee is called back to work after his regular scheduled hours without being notified prior to the end of his shift, he will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at straight time, ^provided that if the time taken to performthe work required exceeds three (3) hours, he will be paid at the regular overtime rate as specified in paragraph 12.02 below, and the four (4) hours’ ^guarantee referred to herein shall not apply.
10.05	Jury Duty
An-employee summoned fonury duty or subpoenaed as a witness for the Crown wilboe remunerated for time lost from work for this purpose by being paid the difference between his average hourly earnings, excluding overtime as shown in the most recent payroll statistics, and the amount of remuneration he receives for his service as a jury man or as a subpoenaed witness,
19
if such amount is less than he would have earned if he had otherwise been at work.
TheCompanies willrequire written proof of jury service
or Crown witness service prior to reimbursement.
10.06	Job Make-Up Pay
If an experienced employee’s work assignment is less than one hundred per cent (100%) of a lob, make-up will be to one hundred per cent (100%), with payment calculated at the base rate.
10.07	Pay Day
The Companies agree to pay weekly wages on Thursday. The Companies will endeavour to pay employees on the 11:00 to 7:00 shift during the Wednesday to Thursday shift.
10.08	Average Hourly Earnings Defined
Average hourly earnings as stated in this Agreement shall mean the individual employee's average hourly earnings, excluding overtime and shift premium, and based on the most recent available payroll statistics,
10.09	Injury Pay
An employee who is injured on the Companies’ premises shall be paid for the balance of his shift at his average hourly earnings.
10.10	Incentive Jobs
(a)	New employees hired on an incentive job shall be paid a starting hourly rate set by the Company, which will enable the employee to reach the full rate after a reasonable apprenticeship period. If hired below the base rate, the employee shall be increased by a minimum of five cents per hour at the completion of the first sixty (60) working days and five cents per hour per month thereafter until the full base rate is achieved. Employees on incentive jobs will be paid the higher of the above or actual earnings.
(b)	An employee transferred to an incentive job shall be guaranteed the lower of either his previous hourly rate or one hundred per cent performance rate on the incentive job for the first sixty (60) working days. After that time he will be paid base rate plus actual incentive earned. After a reasonable tfaihihg period for the specific job, the employee is expected to perform at a standard of at least one hundred ipsrosent(100%).
(c)	The Companies further reserve the right to discipline, demote or transfer an employee as soon as it can be ascertained by comparison to the normal learning curve that the employee is far below normal
20
performancestandards.
(d)	An employee transferred from a non-incentive job to an incentive job shall be entitled to a five day trial period and may, upon reguest, be returned to his/herformer job at the completion of the tria’period., unless the transfer was made to avoid a lay-offlhe five day trial period may be extended by mutual agreement.
10.11	New Classifications
If the Companies establish a new classification they shall set a rate for that classification and so advise the Union. If the Union disagrees with the rate it may request a meeting with the Companies within ten (10) days of notification, and such meeting will be held within thirty (30) days thereafter. If, after such meeting the parties still disagree concerning the rate the Union may request a meeting between the Companies and the Union Engineers, who shall jointly study the job with a view to reaching agreement.
Any adjustments made to the rate as a result of these discussions will be made retroactive to the date of implementation.
10.12	The Companies will pay eacn emihnyee who is required to supply his own tools a Tool Allowance of $25.00 at the end of each contract year.
ARTICLE 11 - WORK STANDARDS
11.01	It is recognized and agreed that it is the right of the Companies to set and institute changes in tasks, work assignments and/or incentive time standards,provided that when an incentive time standard has been established, such incentive time standard shall remain in effect unless there has subsequently been a change, such as a change in method, materials, specifications, machinery, equipment, lay-out, or because of a clerical error in the settine of the rate. It is further agreed that in the event of anj> such change, the entire job or any part thereof may be restudied at the request of either party and a new-time standard set therefor.
11.02	It is agreed that when off-standard conditions occur, routine adjustments in standard incentive rates may be instituted by the Industrial Engineering Department on a day-to-day basis.
11.03	When work is performed by an employee for which no standard has been posted, payment will be made to the employee on the basis of his average hourly earnings.
11.04	It is agreed that notice of minor changes in standard incentive rates shall be posted by the Companies in advance. A copy of such notice shall be supp led to the Union.
11.05	It is agreed that for major changes in standard incentive rates, discussion will be held between the proper representatives of the Union and the Companies before major changes are made as outlinedin 11.01 above.
11.06	In discussing proposed major changes in standard incentive rates, all necessary information required to understand the change will be made available to the Union to the effective date of the change.
11.07	The Union shall have the right to bring in its own experts at such discussions. Such persons shall have the privilege of studying the actud operation in the plant.
11.08	If the matter is in dispute, the Companies, if they deem it necessary, may institute a break-in period. The break-in period shall not exceed thirty (30) working days during which time employees will be paid at their average hourly earnings or actual incentive earnings on the new time standardrate whichever is the higher. At the conclusion of the break-in period, the incentive rate will be established and become effective, and employees shall participate in the wage incentive system.
11.09	The Companies and the Union agree to co-operate to ensure a fair trial following the date the incentive rate becomes effective. If investigation, break-in period, etc., do not result in a satisfactory settlement, either party may invoke the grievance and arbitration procedures commencing at Step No. 2 of the grievance procedure by giving written notice to the other party not less than five (5) working days or more than twenty-five (25) working days from the date that the incentive rate was made effective. If neither party gives notice during this period, the incentive rates shall be deemed to be established and satisfactory to the Companies, the Union, and the employees concerned.
ARTICLE 12 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
12.01	Schedule "B", as posted and forming part of this Agreement, is the schedule of the hours of work.
12.02	Overtime Rates
All authorized work peformed by an employee in excess of the standard dally or weekly hours as detailed in Schedule "B" shall be considered overtime and shall be paid for at the applicable rate specified in clause 12.03
22
below. Overtime will be distributed on an equal basis where ^practical.
The Companies agree to post a list on the plant bulletin boards of all the overtime hours worked by each employee.	'
12.03	Weekend Overtime
All authorized work performed by an employee between midnight, Friday and Midnight, Saturday, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half the employee’s average hourly earnings. All authorized work performed by an employee between Midnight, Saturday andMidnight, Sunday, shall be paid at the rate of two times the employee's average hourly earnings. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply If work performed by an employee during this period forms part of his regular work week.
An employee required to work continuously for more than twelve (12) hours will be paid at the rate of two (2) times his regular rate, two (2) times his average hourly earnings if a piecework-rated employee, for all hours over twelve (12).
12.04	Plant Holiday Overtime
Overtime premium shall be paid for authorized work performed by employees on the plant holidays mentioned in paragraph 13.01 or days observed therefor. This is in addition to any plant holiday pay the employeemay beentitled to under the provisions of this Agreement.
12.05	Overtime Pay Limitation
When commuting overtime pay,, in no case shall an employee bepaidovertime on a daily, weekly and plant holiday basis for the same overtime hours.
12.06	Shift Premium
In addition to the rates ofpay listed in Schedule “A”, the Companies will pay an off-shift premium for all hours worked at regular rates of pay on the following basis effective October 31,1988:
(a)	for regular shifts commencing on or after 1 p.m., the bulk of whose hours fall before midnight, a premium of twenty-five cents (25) per hour.
(b)	for regular shifts ending on or before 8 a.m., the bulk of whose hours fall after midnight, a premium of thirty cents (30) per hour.
In no case shall these premiums be considered as part of the employees’ basic rates of pay.
(c)	any employee who, at the date of signing this
23
Agreement, is enjoying a premium structure more liberal than that defined above, shall continue to receive such premium, but it shall apply only to that employee, and shall become null and void when such employee ceases to be employed on his present shift basis.
(d)	none of the provisions above shall apply to watchmen or supplementary workers.
12.07	The shift differentials referred to in paragraph 12.06 above shall not be subject to overtime or other premiums.
12.08	Protection regular hours
Employees will not berequired to lay off during regular
hours solely to offset overtime hours worked in the same pay period,
12.09	Overtime voluntary
All employees are expected to co-operate and perform overtime work when requested to do so by the Companies. However, it is understood that work is performed on a strictly voluntary basis, and an employee will not be penalized only because of his failure to perform the overtime work requested.
12.10	On any day when an employee is asked by the Companies to work overtime fdfcwing the conclusion of his/her regular shift and agrees to do so, and has not been so notified prior to the commencement of his/her shift, the employee shall be given a $3.00 meal allowance in cash, provid'ed'tlie overtime is for 2'hours or more.
12.11	First Aid Attendant
Designated first aid attendants, of which there shall be one (l)on each of the three shifts, shall be paid fifteen cents (15) per hour in addition to their regular rate. ARTICLE 13 - PLANT HOLIDAYS
13.01
The following ten (10) plant holidays will be observed by the Companies regardless of the days on which they fall. In the event a holiday should fall on a Saturday or Sunday, an alternate day off will be granted instead: New Year’s Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Dominion Day	Boxing Day
Civic Holiday	Floater Holiday
The floater will be scheduled in or around the Christmas/New Year holiday period. The selection of the date shall be made by mutual agreement of the parties each year.	.
24
13.02	Pay rates
An employee will be paid for the number of hours which constitute his normal work day as defined in Schedule ”B". An hourly-rated employee will be paid at his regular hourly rate and an incentive worker will be paid at his average hourly earnings.
13.03	Probationaryemployees
Employees must have completed sixty days of work for the Companies before they are eligible for plant holiday pay. Where an employee completed ninety days of work he shall be eligible to receive retroactively payment for a plant holiday for which he otherwise would have been eligible airing the sixty (60) days mentioned herein.
13.04	Eligibility
To be eligible for plant holiday pay, it is un derstood that the employee must work his full regular shift on the declared workday immediately preceding, and his full regular shift on the declared work day immediately following the plant holiday concerned. The “declared work day", as used herein shall mean the work day so declared by the Companies.
13.05	Specialcircumstances
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 13.04 above, but sub]ect to the other provisions of this Agreement, the companies agree:
(a)	to pay an employee who is absent from work while receiving sick benefits under the group insurance, or benefits under theWorkers' Compensation Act at a time a plant holiday occurs, the plant holiday pay to which he would otherwise be entitled under the provisions of this Agreement;
(b)	to pay plant holiday pay to an employee who is absent due to death in his immediate family, as specified in paragraph 9.22. In no case, however, will an employee be paid for the same day under the provisions of this paragraph, and of paragraph 9.22;
(c)	to pay an employee who is absent from work because
of personal sickness verified by a certificate signed by a licensed medical practitioner of good standing, provided that the provisions of this-paragraph will cease to apply to any employee when he has been paid for four (4) plant holidays during any one (1) con tinuous absence because of such illness;
(d)	to pay plant holiday pay to an employee who has not worked his full regular shift in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 13.04 above, because of circumstances teemed to be extenuating. In reaching such a decision, the Companies will consult with the Union, and each case will be considered on its merits;
(e)	to pay plant holiday pay to an employee who has been grante(permission to beabsentallorpart of his regular shift immediately before, or his regular shift immediately after a plant holiday.
13.06	The provisions of this article shall not apply to employees on layoff unless the employees were laid off because of lack of work durirm the five (5) work davs immediately preceding the plant holiday concerned and were not recalled to work prior to that holiday.
13.07	The provisions of this article shall not apply to employees on leave of absence. However, an employee will receive plant holidy pay provided such leave of absence is for a period of two (2) weeks or less and the employee is otherwise qualified.
13.08	In no circumstances will an employee receive plant holiday pay for more than four (4) of the plant holidays mentioned above during any continued absence regardless of the reason for such absence.
ARTICLE 14 -VACATIONS
14.01	Employees in the employ of the Companies as of the last day of the last full pay period in the month of June shall be entitled to vacation, with vacation pay to be computed as provided in paragraph 14.02, as follows:
(a)	Employees with less than six (6) years’ service with the Companies — two (2) weeks’ vacation.
(b)	Employees with six (6) years’ service or over, but less than fourteen (14) years - three (3) weeks’ vacation.
(c)	Employees with fourteen (14) years’ service or over, but less than twenty-five (25) years — four (4) weeks’ vacation.
(d)	Emrircyees with twenty-five (25) years'service and over — five (5) weeks’ vacation.
14.02	Computation
The total amount of vacation pay due each employee shall be based on his length of continuous service with the Companies, and shall be computed in accordance with the “Computation of Vacation Pay” table set out below:
26
COMPUTATION OF VACATION PAY TABLE Length of employee's continuous Rate of
service with the Companies____Vacation Pay___
Less than 4 years	4% ofemployee’s
total earnings during the 12 -month period ending with and inducting the last full pay period in the month of May.
4 years or over, but less
than 6 years	5%
6 years or over, but less than 14 years
14 years or over, but less than 20 years
20 years or over, but less than 25 years
6%
8%
10%
25 years or over
12%
“Total earnings” as listed above in this clause shall include the previous year’s vacation pay.
14.03	Notwithstanding the other provisions of this article, an employee whose employment with the Companies is terminated on any day prior to the last day of the twelve (12) month period ending with the last day of the last full pay period in the month of May, shall receive vacation pay for the portion of the said twelve (12) month period he worked for the Companies, as follows: An employee whose employment with the Companies is terminated for any reason shall receive the amount of vacation pay to which he is entitled under the schedule set out in the “Computation of Vacation Pay" table in paragraph 14.02 above for work performed during that portion of the said twelve (12) month period he worked for the Companies, and such payment shall be made in cash.
14.04	When an employee loses seven (7) continuous working days or more of employmerit while receiving benefits from the Workers’ Compensation Basm, or sick benefits, or who is on maternity leave, he/she shall be credited with the number of hours so lost as if they had been hours actually worked by the employee, up to a
27
maximum total accumulation of twenty-six (26) weeks for the purpose of computtg vacation pay. If the employee’s absence is the result of one (1) accident or illness, the aforementioned twenty-six (26) week maximum will apply during that absence.
14.05	The Companies shall close the plant for vacation
inform the Union of its desire to change the dates and then after discussion shall notify the employees of any changes by notice on the notice boards prior to March 31 ofthe current year.
14.06	An employee, who is required to remain on duty during plant shut-down or other vacation period, shall, if entitled to vacation, take such vacation as he is entitled to at a time mutually satisfactory to such employee and the Companies; an employee who is entitled to more than two (2) weeks’ vacation, subject to the provisions of clause 14.01 hereof, shall take his third, fourth or fifth week at a time mutually satisfactory to such employee and the Companies.
14.07	Unless special permission is otherwise given by the Companies, a vacation week is to commence on Sunday and end on the following Saturday.
14.08	All vacations earned and computed as of the last pay period in May must be taken and completed on’ or Defore May 31st of the following year. All employees must take thevacation to which they are entitled. Vacation will be paid for as taken, and vacation pay will be given out on the Wednesday of the week preceding the weekfs) the employee is about to take. Vacations of less than one (1) week will be paid for when one (1) week’s vacation has been accumulated, as referred to in paragraph 14.06 above.
14.09	The number of years of continuous service used in reckoning the rate of pay to which an employee is entitled shall be computed as ofthe 30th of Tune.
14.10	Long Service Vacation Bonus
Employees in the employ of the Companies as of the last day of the full pay period in the month of June will in addition to any entitlement provided for in subsection 14.02, receive a bonus in accordance with the following:
(a)	5 years or more but less than 12 years service -	$50.
(b)	12 years or more service -	$100.
ARTICLE 15 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
15.01	The Companies shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of their employees during working hours.
15.02	The Union agrees that it will co-operate in the enforcement of safety rules and regulations.
15.03	The Companies will make available to all full-time employees, while they are in the active employ of the Companies, Group Life, Sickness and Accident Extended Medical Coverage Insurance and Dental plans as follows:
1.	Group Life Insurance Plan — $5,000 for all bargaining unit employees, with $1,000 paid up life insurance on retirement under the Canada Pension Plan Act at age 65 if in the Companies’ employ for more than five (5) years. If, because of ill health an employee is forced to retire before he reaches age 65, he will receive, on his retirement, a $1,000 paid up life insurance, provided he has been in the Companies employ for fifteen (15) years or more immediately prior to the date of his forced retirement.
2.	Extended Medical Coverage Insurance -as provided for by the policy:
100% of hospital charge for semi-private accommodation, no deductible.
100% of charges for drugs, deductible $10 single and $20 family.
100% of charges for all other covered expenses, with deductibles of $10 single and $20 family.
Vision Care: - $45 for frames plus 100% of lenses for all insured persons once every (2) years.
3.	Sickness and Accident Benefit - Provide weekly indemnity payments of 66 2/3% of earnings to a maximum of the U.I.C. level with no “carve-out'.
This plan shall be on a 1-1-4-26 basis.
4.	Dental Plan
Dental Plan to provide the following features:
(a)	No deductible
(b)	Unlimited maximum for covered expenses
(c)	80% co-insurance
(d)	1988 ODA fee schedule
Dental Plan to be effective December 1,1988.
15.04	The Companies agree to pay 75% of the cost of the following:
Group Life Insurance
29
Extended Medical Coverage
Sickness and Accident Insurance
The Companies agree to pay 50% of the cost of the
Dental Plan.
The Companies agree to maintain these percentage payments during the life of this agreement.
15.05	Employees on a leave of absence fora period greater
than three (3) weeks shall pre-pay the full premiums if they desire premium coverage to continue during the aforesaid leave for Extended Medical Coverage Insurance. Employees on pregnancy leave shall pre-pay their required premium portion if they desire premium coverage to continue during such leave.
15.06	The Companies will pay 60% of the cost, up to a maximum of $75.00, of one (1) pair of safety footwear per contract year to any employee required by the Companies to wear such safety footwear.
15.07	In the event the Province of Ontario should decide to
abandon the current payment system for hospital insurance - the Employer Health 'ax (E.H.T.) - and to revert to the same, or a similar paymen t structure as that previouslyin effect under the Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan (OHIP) the Companies agree that they will contribute seventy-five per cent (75%) of the premium cost of that insurance plan on behalf of all full-time employees while they are in the active employ of the Companies.
ARTICLE 16 - BULLETIN BOARDS
16.01	The Companies agree to extend to the Union the privilege of using bulletin boards to be located in the Mill in locations designated A the Companies. The Union agrees not to use theboards for propaganda purposes.
16.02	The Union agrees that no pamphlets or other publications will be distributed on the premises of the Companies without the Companies’ approval.
ARTICLE 17 -UNION SECURITY
17.01	The Companies agree that all present employees and all new employees, after completion of their first full two months of employment, shall be obligated, as a condition of employment, to sign an authorization card authorizing the Companies to deduct from the third pay due each employee in every month the Union dues payable and, m addition, to deduct a fee in an amount equal to one (1) month’s Union dues from new employees upon completion of probationary period, 30
and to remit same by the last day of the month in which
17.02	Once an employee has authorized the Companies to
deduct Union dues, such employee shall not be entitled to cancel the authorization so given while this Agreement is in effect.
17.03	At the time of making each remittance hereunder to the Union, the Companies will submit a list of the names of all employeesfrom whose pay such deduction has been made for the current month, and at the same time will also submit the following information to the Union: a list of the people from whom no deduction was made for the current month, and the reasons therefor - e.g.
LE = Left Companies’ employment
LO = Laid off IF = Initiation fee LA = Leave of absence SICK = Away sick, and no wages payable WC = On Compensation from the Workers’ Compensation Board
PR = Promoted out of the Bargaining Unit
17.04	The Companies will include on each employee’s T-4 form the amount of Union dues (excluding initiation fees) paid by him/her during the tax year in question.
17.05	The Companies agree to contribute monthly to the Union’s Education Fund an amount equal to 0.25% of the monthly bargaining unit payroll. Tie amount shall be calculated each month based on the previous month’s payroll and shall be forwarded, together with the monthly Union dues, to the Union by cheque made payable to the A.C.T.W.U. Education Fund.
31
ARTICLE 18 - CORRESPONDENCE

18,01	Except as otherwise provided, any notice which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by registered mail, as follows:
To the Companies: The Cambridge Towel Corp.
Elco Kitchen Products Limited, Fashion Screen Print Ltd.,
450 Dobbie Drive,
Cambridge, Ontario.
N1R5X9
To the Union:	Amalgamated Clothing and
Textile Workers Union. AFL-CIO-CLC,
545 Main Street East,
Hamilton, Ontario,
L8M1H9
cc Recording Secretary,
Local 1441,
A.C.T.W.U.,
Cambridge, Ontario.
ARTICLE 19 -MODIFICATION, RENEWAL AND TERMINATION
19.01	This Agreement shall continue in effect from FJovember,
I9iILunti).ih.e Tlst day. of. October, .1992. and shall continue automatically thereafter durir\g annual periods of one year each unless either party notifies the other in writing within one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the expiry date that a revision or discontinuance is desired.
19.02	In the event of such notification being given as to revision of the Agreement, negotiations between the parties shall beg& within fifteen (15) days following such notification unless extended by mutual agreement of theparties.
19.03	If the parties enter into negotiations for the purpose of amending this Agreement, and agreement on the renewalor amendment of this Agreement is not reached prior to the normal termination date hereof, the termination of this Agreement shall be automatically extended until consummation of a new Agreement or completion of the conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Ontario.
19.04	The Companies agree to make available a copy of the Collective Agreement printed in booklet form for all employees at no cost to the Union,
32
THE CAMBRIDGE TOWEL CORPORATION ELCO KITCHEN PRODUCTS LIMITED FASHION SCREEN PRINT LTD.
"M. ROSEN"
"W. SPENCER"
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC, LOCAL 1441
"CAROL HIGH" "WAYNE CAMPBELL" "HELEN INACIO" "KATHLEEN LEWIS"
SOUTH-WESTERN ONTARIO JOINT BOARD "NORM YOUNGER"
DATED AT CAMBRIDGE THIS 10th DAY OF MARCH, 1992.
33
WAGES
Wage Rates -See Schedule “A”.
New employees shall be paid a starting hourly rate set by the Companies, which will allow the employee to reach the full rate for the classification in question after a reasonable apprenticeship period. The normal apprenticeship period of each classification appears on Schedule "C". New employees will be increased five cents per hour at the completion of their first sixty (60) working days and five cents per hour per month thereafter until they reach the maximum rate of the classification of the job being performed.
LETTER OF INTENT 1.
Driringrecentcollectivebargainingnegotiations, thefollowing matters were agreed upon:
1.	Where a full day’s work or more is available during the regular work week in a department in which an employee is laid off, the Company will offer the work to the laid off employee provided he is willing and qualified to perform the work without further training, before assigning a temporary employee to perform the work.
2.	It is acknowledged by both parties that Cambridge Towel, Elco, and Fashion Screen Print are separate companies with separate seniority lists. However, it is agreed that,
(a)	Where an employee in one Company requests a transfer to one of the other Companies, and if there is a vacancy which no employee of either of the Companieswishes to fill!, the employee requesting the transfer will be given preference in filling the vacancy before a new employee is hired from outside, subject to the approval of the Plant Manager, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, and unless the Qualifications of an outside candidate are superior to those of the employee requesting the transfer; *
(b)	Where the employee in one Company is laid off, he shall be given preference in filling any vacancies which may exist in one of the other Companies before a new employee is hired from outside, sublet to the approval of the Plant Manager, which shall not be unreasonahl withheld and unless the qualifications of an outside candidate are superior to those of the laid off employee;
(c)	In either case described above, the employee will retain his accumulated seniority with the Companies;
(d)	For the purpose of this letter, a job filled by a probationary employee shall be considered a vacancy.
34
3.	It is acknowledged that certain non-bargaining unit personnel are presently performing some bargaining unit work. The Companies agree that if in the future it considers it necessary to assign additional bargain ingunit work tonon bargaining unit personnel, the Companies shall discuss the matter witht h lUniion and the parties shall jointly determine the extent of the bargaining unit work to be done by such person.
It is further agreed that present salaried personnel will not replace any additional bargaining unit employees. The companies shall prepare a list of all non-bargaining unit employees presently performing a significant amount of bargaining unit functions. Any additions to this list must be mutually agreed upon between the parties.
4.	Notwithstanding, the revised rates negotiated for the Finishing Department and Elco, an employee who has completed the probationary period as of the date of ratification of this Agreement will continue to receive his/her existing rate plus any negotiated increases unless the employee, subsequent to the date of ratification, voluntarily transfers into the Finishing Department or Elco, or unless the employee is demoted or transferred in accordance with Article 10.10 (b) (c).
LETTER OF INTENT 2.
In interpreting and applying article 9.17(a) it is understood that "voluntarily quits'1 refers to an employee who voluntarily quits and who does not reverse his or her decision at least two (2) hours prior to the start of his or her next schedule shift and does not report for that shift. However, if coverage has been re-arranged for by the Companies, the employee will be notified to report for a following shift, provided that in no event shall this following shift be more than three (3) working days following the employee's first action. It is understood that the Companies retain the right to discipline the employee(s) involved, subject to the employee’s right to grieve.
LETTER OF INTENT 3.
The Companies and the Union agree to develop and implement, through the I.A.S. program, an cngping system of selection and training for employees to proviie opportunities for promotion and/or advancement. Both the Companies and the Union consider the development of such a program to be of paramount importance.
35
LETTER OF INTENT 4.
The Company and the Union agree in principle that the number of classifications should be reduced. During the term of the current collective agreement, and as quickly as possible after ratification, there shall be established a joint committee comprised of an equal number of Company and Union representatives to study and resolve this issue. Any upward wage adjustments shall be made immediately upon agreement to reclassify a particular job. No employee shall have his or her actual rate reduced by reclassification. Any employee whose rate would be otherwise reduced shall be red circled at nis or her current rate prior to classification.
LETTER OF INTENT 5.
If the Companies reinstate the incentive program in the weaveroom, which was recently suspended on a trial basis, the Union’s Industrial Engineer will be invited to meet with the Company’s Industrial Engineer for the purpose of reviewing the original incentive system for weaving.
LETTER OF INTENT 6.
The Company agrees to continue the current Gain Sharing Program for the term of this Agreement, and develop and implement proper standards as soon as it can.
The Company agrees that will continue to work with the Union to develop a formal Gain Sharing Program.
SCHEDULE “A” JOB CLASSIFICATION & RATES
Dept./ Job Classification Class#
43 PREPARATION
401	Yarn Handler
402	Warper Operator
403	Warper Creeler
404	Slasher Operator
405	Slasher Helper
406	Fixer Rp? aration
407	General H elp 53 WEAVING
501	Weaver
502	Warp Hand
503	Warp	Tyer
504	W a r p VT er/Fixer
505	Smash H and
506	Head	Fixer
507	Set Fixer
508	Jacq uard Fixer
509	Rol II & Fill Carrier
510	Oiler
511	Draw-In
512	Pattern Maker
513	Storekeeper
514	GeneraHelp
515	Side Hemmer
516	Assistant Fixer
63 DYEHOUSE
601	Lead Hand
602	Machine Operator
603	General Help
As of Nov.	01/91	Inc. Target
Day Rate	Base	%	$
8.61
6.22+B	130	8.08
7.91 9.61 8.06
9.11
7.21
8.33+B	120	9.99
9.11
9.11
10.11
8.91 12.40
11.86	10.24+B	116	11.88
11.57
8.12 8.12 8.31
9.11
9.20
7.21
7.91 9.36
8.71
8.46
7.21
36
SCHEDULE "A"
JOB CLASSIFICATION & RATES
Dept./ Job Classification	As of Nov.
Class #	Day Rate
73 FINISHING
701	Lotln.'F'ctor
703	Slitter °P erator
704	Side Hemmer
705	Auto Cutter Oper.
706	Auto-Sewing M/C Operator Sewer
707	Whipper
708	Embroidery M/C Operator
709	Inspector/Folder
710	Repairs
711	Seconds Inspector
712	Polybag/Polywrap Operator
713	Lead Hand
714	Fixer
715	Pack &: Record
716	Material Handler
717	General Help
7.51
7.11 7.91
8.11 8.11
8.11
7.51
7.91
7.91
7.21
8.51 10.61
7.91
7.91
7.21
83 SHIPPING
801	LeadHand
802	Shipper
803	Truck Driver
804	General Help 93 MAINTENANCE
901	Lead Hand
902	Mechanic CL. I
903	Mechanic CL. II
904	Mechanic CL III
905	Electrician Cl. I
906	Electrician CL. II
907	Carpenter
908	Janitor
909	General Maintenance
910	General Help ELCO
201	Assistant Cutter
202	Die Cutting M/C Operator
203	Slitter/Roller Operator
204	Genera 1 Help FASHION
301	PrintingM/C. Oper. A
302	PrintingM/C. Oper.M
303	PrintingM/C/ Oper. B
304	Screen Preparer
305	Colour Technician
306	Photo Screen Maker
307	Machine Loader
308	General Help
8.46
8.31
9.11
7.21
11.31
10.86
9.86
9.36
11.11
10.11
8.70
8.21
8.26
7.21
8.31
7.51
7.91
7.21
11.98
9.23
8.73
8.54
10.66
10.84
7.21
7.21
01/91
Base
6.22+B
6.22+B
Inc Target
% S
130	8.08
130	8.08
37
SCHEDULE "B"
Regular shift hours shall be as follows:
Finishing Department Stockroom - Shipping Maintenance Supplementary shifts -Dyehouse Warping Weaving Winding Slashing
Mon, - Fri. Mon. - Fri. Mon. - Fri. 5 evenings Mon. - Fri. Mon, - Fri. Mon. - Fri. Mon. - Fri. Mon. - Fri.
8 hrs. per shift 8 hrs. per shift 8 hrs. per shift 5 hrs. per shift 8 hrs. per shift 8 hrs. per shift 8 hrs. per shift 8 hrs. per shift 8 hrs. per shift
While this schedule defines the normal hours of work, it shall not be construed or interpreted as a guarantee by the Companies of a specified number of hours of work per day or days of work per week.
REST PERIODS
On shifts with one hour unpaid lunch period, one 10 minute rest peiod will be observed in each half of the shift, at times specified by the Companies.
On straight 8 -hour shifts, a total of 30 minutes midlunchtime will be allowed in periods mutually agreed and times as designated by the Companies.
Supplementary shift - one 10 minute rest period at a time specified by the Companies.
38
SCHEDULE "C" APPRENTICESHIP PERIODS
Dept./ Job Classification Class. No.
43 PREPARATION
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
Yarn Handler Warper Operator Warper Creeler Slasher Operator SlasheiHelper Fixer Preparation GeneralHelp
53 WEAVING
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
Weaver Warp Hand Warp Tyer Warp Tyer/Fixer SmashHand Head Fixer Set Fixer Jacquard Fixer Roll & Fill Carrier Oiler Draw-In Pattern Maker Storekeeper GeneraHelp Side Hemmer
63DYEHOUSE
601	Lead Hand
602	MachinOperator
603	General Help 73 FINISHING
701	Lot Inspector
702	Slitter Operator
703	Side Hemmer
704
705
706
707
708
709
710
Auto Cutter 3per. AutoSewing M/C. Operator Sewer Whipper
Embroidery M/C. Operator Inspector/Folder Repairs
711	Seconds Inspector
712	Polybag/Poly wrap Operator
713	Lead Hand
Months
*
9
24
6
6
24
6
N/A
18
24
9
9
*
6
N/A
6
6
39
N/A
Dept./	Job Classification
Class. No.
73 FINISHING (con't)
714	Fixer
715	Pack &Record
716	Material Handler
717	General Help 83 SHIPPING
801	Lead Hand
802	Shipper
803	Truck)river
804	General Help 93 MAINTENANCE
901	Lead Hand
902	Mechanic CL. *
903	MechanicCL. II
904	Mechanic CL. III
905	Electrician CL. I
906	Electrician CL. II
907	Carpenter
908	Janitor
909	General Maintenance
910	General Help ELCO
201	Assistant Cutter
202	Die CuttiigM/C. Operator
203	Slitter /Roller Operator
204	General Help FASHION
301	Printing M /C. Oper. A
302	Printing M/C. Oper. M
303	PrintingM/C. Oper. B
304	Screen Preparer
305	Colour Tecnnician
306	Photo Screen Maker
307	Machine Loader
308	General Help
Months
12
6
N/A
6
N/A
12
9
6
9
6
6
6
6
*
6
24
6
6
18
18
40