Collective I
Labour
Agreement'
between
£ DOMINION TEXTILE INI.
ind
United
Textile Workers of America Local 478
Caldwell, Ontario—1987
procedure.......	.................... 0
05	Arbitration . ‘........................ 1
06	Discharge Cases......................... 16
07	Strikes and Lockouts................... 1
08	Seniority.............................. 1
09	Productivity............................ 37
10	Wage Payment Methods.................... 51
11	Hours of Work and Overtime......5
12	Reporting for Work.............. c
13	Wage Rates and Call-in Pay.............. 62
14	Shift Premium........................... 65
15	Plant Holidays, Vacation with
Pay and Insurance Plan.................. 66
16	Bulletin Board.......................... 66
17	Bereavement............................  57
16 Union Security....................... ... qq'
19	Leave of Absence....................

20	Notices................................ 74
21	Renewal. Amendment and Termination ... 75
Schedule I: Rates of Pay.................. 77
Schedule II: Plant Holidays................ 86
Schedule Til Vacations with pay........... 89
Schedule IV: Insurance Plan................ 92
Schedule V: Authorization card............. 95
Letter of Agreement (1)................... 96
2
This agreement entered into as of the 4th day of November 1987.
BETWEEN:
CALDWELL, DIVISION OF DOMINION TEXTILE INC., in the Corporation of the Village of Iroquois, in the township of Matilda, in the Province of Ontario (hereinafter referred to as the “COMPANY”)
OF THE FIRST PART
and
UNITED TEXTILE WORKERS OF AMERICA (Local 478) (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
3
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION AND COVERAGE
1.01
The company recognizes the union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent with respect to all matters properly arising under this agreement for all of the company’s hourly rated and piece-work employees at its plant in the corporation of the Village of Iroquois in the Township of Matilda, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors, office and sales staff, as certified by the Ontario Labour Relations Board, the 29th day of April 1969.
1.02
Where the masculine pronoun is used herein it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context so applies.
ARTICLE 2 RELATIONSHIP
2.01
a)	The company agrees that there will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practiced by the company or by any of its representativeswith respect to any
A
employee, because of his membership in or lawful activities on behalf of the union.
b)	The union agrees that there will be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practiced upon employees of the company by any of its members or representatives.
2.02
The union agrees that there will not be any union activities or business conducted on the premises of the company, except as permitted by this agreement.
2.03	Work Performed by Management Personnel:
Work normally done by employees in the bargaining unit will not be performed by management personnel, except when actually instructing or training employees, in emergency cases, when it is a question of experimental work, for the production of samples, for development purposes or other research work deemed necessary by the company.
ARTICLE 3
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
3.01
The union acknowledges that it is exclusively the function of the company to:
5
a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
b)	hire, discharge, classify, direct, transfer, promote, demote, lay off and suspend or otherwise discipline employees, subject to the right to lodge a grievance as herein provided;
c)	make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, provided that they are not inconsistantwith the provisions of this agreement; and
d)	generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the company is engaged and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to introduce or change machine processes; to make studies of and to institute changes in work loads, job assignments, wage payment methods, methods of operation and work payment rates; to determine the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacture, schedules of production, kinds and location of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced, and the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations.
3.02
In the case where the company exercises its options as described in paragraph3.01 c) it will
6
notify the union in writing five (5) working days prior to the implementation of such.
3.03
The company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the other provisions of this agreement.
ARTICLE 4
REPRESENTATION AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
4.01
a) The union may elect or appoint from employees in each of the following departments, stewards whose duties shall be to assist employees working in the steward’s department, and shift where applicable, in presenting their grievances to the designated representatives of the company in accordance with the grievance procedure:
Department
Number of stewards
Yarn preparation Weave
Dye and Bleach Sewing Maintenance (including Boiler House) Shipping and receiving
One (1) per shift One (l) per shift One (1) per shift One (1) per shift One (1)
One (1) per shift
7
b) The company acknowledgesthe right of the union to appoint or select from amongst the department stewards on each shift, a representative to be known as a chief steward for that shift.
4.02
The company agrees to recognize a grievance committee composed of persons designated as officers or stewards or chief steward, the chairman of which shall be the union president or his designate, provided that not more than four (4) membersof the committee (including the chairman) shall meet with the company at one time to deal with a grievance.
4.03
Employees shall not be eligible to serve as stewards or as chief steward or as members of the grievance committee unless they have been in the company’s continuous employ for at least three (3) months.
4.04
The union shall keep the company notified in writing of the names of its authorized stewards and chief stewards and other officers, and the respective effective dates of their appointment. The company shall keep the union notified in writing of the names of supervisorswho may be called upon to act with respect to the administration of this agreement.
8
4.05
The union acknowledges that the stewards and chief stewards and members of the grievance committee have their regular duties to performon behalf of the company and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without receiving permission from their supervisor which will not be unreasonably withheld. They shall state their destination to their supervisor, together with their reasons therefore, and shall report again to their supervisor at the time of their return to work if the supervisor is in the department.
4.06
It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and it is understoodthat an employee has no grievance until he has first given his supervisor an opportunity of adjusting his complaint. If an employee has a complaint he shall discuss it with his supervisor within twenty (20) working days afterthe occurence of the circumstances giving rise to the complaint, and failing settlement it may then be taken up as a grievance within three (3) working days following receipt of the supervisor’s decision as follows:
Step no. 1:
The employee will present his grievance in 9
writing to his supervisor. The employee concerned and the steward or in case of absence of the steward the chief steward shall discuss the grievance with the supervisor.
Failing a settlement, the supervisor shall deliver his decision in writing three (3) working days following the presentation of the grievance to him. Failing settlement:
Step no. 2:
Within three (3)working days after the decision is given under Step No. 1, the grievance will be submitted in writing and presented by the employee accompanied by the steward or in case of absence of the steward by the chief steward to the personnel manager. The grievance shall state the reason(s) for the supervisor’s decision under Step No. 1, being unacceptable. The personnel manager shall deliver his decision in writing within six (6) working days after receiving the written grievance. Failing settlement:
Step no. 3:
Wthinfive (5) working days after the decision is given under Step No. 2, the grievor with the assistance of the grievance committee will submit the grievance in writing to the plant manager or in his absence the personnel manager of the company. The grievance shall state the
10
reason(s) for the plant manager’s or personnel manager’s decision under Step No. 2 being unacceptable. A meeting will then be held between the plant manager or personnel manager and the grievance committee, and an accredited representative of the union shall be present at the request of either the company or the union. The steward from the area concerned or the chief steward if he has been previously involved in the settlement of that grievance may displace one of the members of the grievance committee at such meeting. The union committee will notifythe company of any steward orgrievor wishing to attend a meeting concerningtheir grievance. The decision of the plant manager or personnel manager shall be delivered in writing within seven (7) working days.
It is understood that the plant manager or personnel manager may have such counsel and assistance as he may desire at any meeting with the union grievance committee.
4.07
Any collective grievance may be submitted by the department steward or in case of absence of the department steward by the chief steward to the shift supervisor or department supervisor within the same delays as spelled out above provided said grievance is signed by
11
at least one of the employees involved and or one of the officers of the union.
4.08
Failingsettlement under the foregoing procedure of any difference betweenthe parties arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, such difference or question may be submitted to arbitration as herein after provided. If no written request for arbitration is received within ten (10) working days after the decision under Step No. 3 is given, it shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned.
4.09
Forthe purposesofarticles4and5 a working day means a day from Monday to Friday excluding statutory holidays and days when the Personnel Department is closed.
4.10
All agreements reached under the grievance procedure between the representatives of the company and the representatives of the union or betweenthe employee(s) and the company provided it is not contrary to the provisions of this agreement, will be final and binding upon the company, the union and the employees.
12
4.11
In all steps of the grievance procedure, where no written answer has been given within the time limits specified, the employee(s) concerned or the union, as the case may be, shall be entitled to submit the grievance to the next step of the grievance procedure, including arbitration.
4.12
At any step of the grievance procedure necessary arrangementswill be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant to view disputed operations and to confer with necessary witnesses, provided sufficient advance notice is given.
4.13
Any and all time limits fixed by this article and article 5 may at anytime be extended by written agreement between the company and the union.
4.14
At the request of either party a meeting will be held once each month between the grievance committee and a company committee appointed by the plant manager. Such meeting shall be held not more than two (2) weeks after the presentationof the proposedagenda by the party requesting the meeting.
13
4.15
No monetary adjustment affected under the grievance procedure or arbitration procedure shall be made retroactive prior to the date the grievance was formally presented to the company under the grievance procedure, except as to a grievance claiming payment of an improper wage rate which may be made retroactive to the date the grievance occurred.
ARTICLE 5 ARBITRATION
5.01
When a written notice for arbitration is received by the company in accordance with the terms of article 4.08, the grievance shall forthwith be submitted to a sole arbitrator to be chosen in rotation amongst the following arbitrators:
Michel Piche	Jean-Guy Clement
J.F. Weatherhill	Rolland Tremblay
Claude Lauzon
In the event that the designated sole arbitrator cannot meet the parties within a reasonable delay or in the event that the designated sole arbitrator has not yet rendered his decision on a previous grievance, the next arbitrator will be chosen.
14
In the event that all above mentioned arbitrators are unavailable, the parties will request that the Department of Labour of the Province of Ontario designate an arbitrator.
Should the grievance concern a task, job assignment and/or work payment rates, the arbitrator shall be a competent textile engineer appointed from any of the following:
Charron, Bourgetel et Ass. Enrg. Woods, Gordon & Co.
or such other qualified industrial textile engineer as may be agreed upon.
5.02
No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
5.03	Decision:
The decision of the sole arbitrator will be final and binding on the partiesto the present agreement and all other employees concerned.
5.04	Limitation of power:
The sole arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of the agreement nor to alter, modify or amend any of this agreement.
15
5.05	Fees and expenses:
The fees and expenses of the sole arbitrator will be paid on the basis of one-half by the company and one-half by the union.
ARTICLE 6
DISCHARGE CASES
6.01
a)	A claim by an employee who has completed his probationaryperiod that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the plant manager or in his absence the personnel manager of the company within five (5) days after the employee ceases to work for the company and the first step of the grievance procedurewill be omitted in any such case. The company agrees to notify the union in writing of a discharge at the time of such discharge and, if requested within twenty-four (24) hoursthereafter, will hold an interviewcon-ducted by the personnel manager before the discharge is considered final. Prior to such interview the company will advise the employee’s steward of the arrangement and the steward will be given the opportunityto be present at the commencementof the interview and, if the employee wishes, the steward may remain throughout the interview
16
b)	In case of a discharge, the company will advise the employee’s available steward or in his absence the chief steward or a union representative who will be given an opportunity of being present to discuss the circumstances that required disciplinary action.
6.02
Such special grievance may be settled under the grievance and arbitation procedures by:
a)	confirming the company’s action in dismissing the employee;
b)	reinstating the employee with full compensation for the time lost; or
c)	by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable and mutually agreed upon.
ARTICLE 7
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
7.01
The company agrees that there will be no lockoutof employeesand the union agreesthat there will be no strike, slow-down, sit-down or other action which will interfere with work or production. If any such action takes place, the union agrees to instruct its members to carry
17
out the provisions of this agreement and to return to work and perform their duties.
ARTICLE 8 SENIORITY
8.01	Definition:
Forthe purposes of this agreement, seniority means the total lenght of continuous service accumulated with the company by an employee, in accordance with the conditions, provided hereunder in paragraph 8.02.
8.02	Probationary period:
a)	An employee will be considered on probation and will not be subject to the seniority provisions of this agreement until after he has completed sixty (60) days of work in the bargaining unit within a period of six (6) consecutive calendar months from the date of hire. Upon completion of such probationary period the employee’s name will be placed on the seniority list of his department, with seniority dating from his date of hire. The following is the list of departments for seniority purposes:
1.	Yarn preparation
2.	Weave
3.	Dye and bleach
4.	Sewing
18
5.	Maintenance (including Boiler House)
6.	Shipping and receiving.
b)	Transfer into the bargaining unit:
1.	Any employee, who has worked on an occupation covered by the bargaining unit and who has been transferred before November 4th, 1987, to an occupation not covered by the agreement will be credited for seniority purposes with his total lengthof continuous service accumulated within the bargaining unit if he is transferred again to an occupation covered by the present agreement.
2.	Any employee, who works on an occupation covered by the bargaining unit and is given an opportunity after November 4th, 1987, to attend educational or training courses or any employee trained for a non-bargaining unit occupation, will be credited for seniority purposes with his total length of continuous service, if he should be subsequently transferred into the bargaining unit within twelve (12) months of completion of said courses or training.
3.	After November4th, 1987, any employee who works on an occupation covered by the bargaining unit or any employee trained for a non-bargaining unit position and who is subsequently transferred to an occupation not covered by this agreement will be credited for
19
seniority purposes, with his total length of continuous service if he is transferred again into the bargaining unit within twelve (12) months.
4.	In the case where an employee is reinstated into the bargaining unit as perthe provisions of 8.02 b) 1,2 and 3, said employee will remit to the unionasumequaltothe amount of union dues for the period so spent up to a maximum of 24 months outside the bargaining unit.
c)	An employee who is under a probationary period can not present a grievance concerning his dismissal, transfer or demotion based on the evaluation by the company of his capacity to meet quality and quantity of work, his learning abilities and his adaptability to the group. However, unless otherwise specified, this employee enjoys the other rights and privileges provided in the present agreement.
d)	The company will advise verbally the employee of the completion of his probationary period when it occurs.
8.03
Time lost in excess of nine (9) months in the case of layoff and in excess of twelve (12) months in the event of sickness or accident will not be counted in computing an employee’s seniority; however, in cases covered by the
20
Workmen’s CompensationAct time lost during the period of compensation will be counted.
The provisionsof this paragraphdo not apply to probationary employees where time lost for any reason will not be counted in determining the completion of the probationary period.
8.04	Loss of Seniority:
An employee shall lose all seniority and his employment shall be terminated if he:
a)	voluntarily quits the employ of the company;
b)	is discharged for just cause and the discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure;
c)	fails for no acceptable reason within seven (7) days pursuant to notification sent by registered mail by the company to report to work following a layoff or to advisethe company of his intention to report to work pursuant to the said notification;
d)	has been laid off for a period of time equivalent to the length of his seniority at the time he was laid off uptoa maximumof twenty-four (24) months, the whole subject to subparagraph (c) above;
e)	is absent due to sickness or an accident for more than twelve (12) months in the case of
21
an employee with less than five (5) years’ seniority and twenty-four (24) months in the case of an employee having five (5) years’ or more seniority. If an employee advises the company at the end of the said twelve (12) or twenty-four (24) month period, as the case may be, and once every six (6) months thereafter of his intention to return to work, his seniority will not be broken.These provisions do not apply in Workmen’s Compensationcases and seniority will not be broken during the period of compensation.
8.05	Application for seniority:
Seniority rules are applied firstly to the employees of the department concerned before looking elsewhere in the plant.
8.06	Definition of vacancy:
For purposes of this article 8 a vacancy results eitherfrom the normalturnover of personnel, such as retirement, resignation, death, promotion, dismissal, demotion for cause or transfer of employees to jobs not covered by this bargaining unit or from an increase in the number of employees required on an occupation. The above does not imply that particular job vacancies must necessarily be filled. However, should the job remain in operation it shall be filled in accordancewith the provisions of article 8.07.
22
8.07	In the case of job vacancies,
the following procedure will apply:
a)	The company will post the job vacancy notice for a period of seven (7) days on the departmentaland central bulletin board and will remit a copy to the departmental steward. However, the company is not required to post any job vacancy where duration of the vacancy does not exceed sixty (60) working days. A temporary job vacancy is that which is defined under article 8.11 - Temporary transfers, subheadings »a» to »f».
b)	Employees who are interested in the job vacancy will offer their candidacy by requesting a job bid form from their supervisor.
c)	If no employee in the department concerned has offered his candidacy or if no candidates are qualified in the department, the company will consider from other employees who have applied.
d)	In the choice of the employee to occupy the job vacancy, seniority shall prevail among employees who have offered their candidacy providing they are qualified to perform the occupation for which they are a candidate as outlined in paragraph 8.09.
e)	1. The company will post acknowledgement notices for all candidates to any job vacancies. The name of the successful appli-
23
cant will be posted on a job award notice for any
job vacancy for a period of four (4) working days.
The company will advise the successful applicant of any job vacancy within one week from the expiry date of the job posting period.
The company will send a copy of the job posting and the award of the successful candidate to the local union.
2. The company will place the successful applicant on the occupation within fifteen (15) working days of the end of the posting period except where such appointment would disrupt normal production flow and/or needs and the requirements of quality.
f)	It is agreed that the company may temporarily fill the job vacancy during the posting period without restriction.
g)	The employees who have bid for the job vacancy as described in subparagraph (b) above are the only ones who may later file a grievance.
h)	An employee who has thus been granted an occupation at an equivalent or lower contractual wage rated job will not be permitted to bid to his former occupation or an equivalent or lower contractual rated job for any future job vacancy during the ensuing year.
24
i)	In exceptional cases where employees who have been promoted and who cannot perform during the training period, a demotion or transfer can be considered only by mutual agreement of both parties.
When the company nevertheless wishes to demote or transfer an employee for reasons of ill-health, the employee will be given preference according to his seniority if it is an occupation which he has previously fulfilled satisfactorily in the same department or if he has not previously fulfilled this occupation, if he is qualified to do the work. This, however, does not preclude the right of the employee who is demoted or transferred from lodging a grievance on the basis that his demotion or transfer was unjustified.
8.08	Preference of assignment:
In the case of preference of assignment requested by employees the following will apply:
a)	When a vacancy occurs on an occupation on a particular shift, a maximum of one (1) change in assignment will be permitted upon request of an employeeworking on the occupation and shift concerned on the basis of seniority.
b)	The preference of assignment as described abcve will be granted to the employee
25
currently working on the occupation and shift concerned prior to filling the job vacancy.
c)	The parties agree that in no other circumstances will there be a preference of assignment among the employees currently working on the same occupation.
8.09
1. The following factors will be considered in evaluating an employee’s skill, competence and ability related to the performance of the work for which he is a candidate.
a)	Physical requirements of the occupation and physical qualification of the candidate.
b)	Results of aptitude tests.
c)	Successful participation in training courses for the occupation for which he is a candidate.These training courses may take the form of theoretical courses, on-the-job training in the department or in the training center.
d)	Licences where required
e)	For the jobs involving the handling of a crew, the ability to direct people shall also be considered.
f)	To utilise an aptitude test as a factor of consideration to evaluate an employee, the company must:
26
1.	Consider new experience since last test and allow an employee applying for a job to undertake same test as other candidates.
2.	Act same as above in cases of courses followed by an employee in relation with requirements of posted occupation.
It is understood that some of these above-mentioned factors will have more relative im-portancethan others depending on the occupation which is vacant.
2. Should the company decide to give training courses to its employees on various occupations, the employees who are chosen will be selected according to the provisions of paragraph 8.09.
8.10	Permanent transfers:
A permanent transfer is a permanent assignment of an employee by the company to a job vacancy in another occupation at the same wage rate.
In the case of permanent transfers, the same principles will apply as outlined above in paragraph 8.09. An employee will carry his seniority with him immediately upon being transferred permanently to a different department.
It is understoodand agreed that an employee on the seniority list is not obliged to accept a permanent transfer.
27
8.11	Temporary transfers:
A temporary transfer is a temporary assignment of an employee at the request of the company to a temporary job vacancy in another occupation at a higher wage rate, at a lower wage rate or an equivalent wage rate.
Temporary transfers shall be effected for a maximum period of thirty (30) calendar days except for one of the following reasons in which case the given movements will not exceed twelve (12) months.
a)	To replace one or more employees who are taking their annual vacations:
b)	to replace an employee absent as a result of an industrial accident or illness, or nonindustrial accident or an employee absent on maternity leave:
c)	to replace a transferred employee, who at the request of the company is working for another branch of Dominion Textile Inc., or for another company affiliated to or supplying materials or services to the company:
d)	to fill a job because the company has temporarily increased certain labour requirements to meet a special situation.
It is understood that this paragraph does not imply that in cases of normal vacancies and
28
normal conditions that articles 8.06 and 8.07 are not to be applied;
e)	to replace an employee who is receiving special training or preparationfor a supervisory or technical position, or to replace an employee transferred as a result of the transfer of another employee who is receiving the said special training or preparation;
f)	to replace an employee absent on a special approved leave.
The company shall have the right to transfer employees on a temporary basis to fill temporary job vacancies as described inthe preceding paragraph. Employees who are thus transferred will be remunerated according to the provisions of paragraph 13.02.
The company will not use a series of temporary appointments outside the job posting procedure to enable an employee to accumulate experience in order to place him in a preferential position in the event of a permanent vacancy.
8.12	Shift work:
a)	If there is more than one shift in operation on any occupation, the employees will rotate every week.
b)	The departmental seniority of an employee who is currently on the occupation in
29
that department will govern preference of shifts when a vacancy occurs on that occupation.
8.13	Layoffs - One complete shift or less:
Subject to paragraph 8,14 hereunder in the event that it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees on an occupation in a departmentfor one (I) complete shift or less,the employees on the occupation and shift concerned will be laid off in the reverse order of seniority according to the seniority list established in paragraph 8.19. It is understood that employees so laid off will not have the right to displace other employees on other shifts or other occupation.
8.14	Layoffs— More than one (1) complete shift:
In the event that it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees on an occupation in a department for more than one (I)complete shift to five (5) complete shifts, the employee on the occupation with the least seniority according to the seniority list will be subject to a layoff. The employee subject to a layoff will have the right to replace an employee on a probationary period in production, or an employee with least seniority on an occupation in his departmentwhich he had previoustyfulfil-led satisfactorily or on an equivalent or lower
30
rated occupation in his department provided that he is qualified to perform the work.
Notwithstandingany of the foregoing, no em-ployeequalified under8.09 shall be affected by a layoff out of the order of his seniority for an aggregate of more than five (5) working days within a calendar quarter (13 weeks).
8.15	Layoffs — More than five (5) complete shifts:
In the event that it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees on an occupation in a department for more than five (5) complete shifts, the employee on the occupationwith the least seniority according to the seniority list established in paragraph 8.19 will be subject to layoff. The employee subject to said layoff firstly has the right to replace a probationary employee on production or an employeewith the least seniority on an occupation which he has previously fulfilled satisfactorily or on an equivalent or lower ranked occupation in his/her department provided that he is qualified to perform the work within a maximumdelay of five (5) days. Secondly, if the employee is unableto use the above provisions he/she has the right to replace a probationary employee on production or an employee with the least seniority on an occupation which he has previously fulfilled satisfactorily or on an
31
equivalent or lower ranked occupation in another department provided that he is qualified to perform the work within a maximum dal ay of five (5) days.
This last disposition can only be invoked once by an employee concerned on the occasion of each layoff and will only be applied to employees with six (6) months seniority or more.
In cases where occupationsand/or complete assignments are permanently eliminated due to a reduction of machinery or technological change, this last disposition which will be extended to thirty-five (35) working days, can only be invoked once by an employee concerned on the occasion of each layoff and will be applied to employeeswho have at least completedtheir probationary period.
An employee who transfers to another department as a result of article 8.15 will have his/her seniority transferred effective immediately when the transfer occurs. This does not eliminate the provisions of article 8.16 (d).
8.16	Recalls to work:
The following procedure will apply in recalling employees to work following a layoff:
a)	Laid off employees will be recalled to work in the reverse order from layoffs in their
32
respective departments and on the occupation which they held prior to the layoff.
b)	Laid off employees who are recalled to work in their respective departments to an equivalent or higher-rated occupation than the one they performed prior to their layoff will be so recalled according to the provisions of paragraph 8.09. Laid off employees who are recalled to work in their respective departments to a lower-rated occupation than the one they performed prior to their layoff will be so recalled in the reverse order from layoffs providedthey are qualified to do the work.
c)	Laid off employees who are recalled to work to a different department than the one in which they were working prior to the layoff will be so recalled according to the provisions of paragraph 8.09. Employees are under no obligation to accept a recall to a new department. However, if the employee accepts such a recall, his seniority will be transferred after he has been in his new department for a total of two (2) consecutive weeks and will cease to apply in his former department. New employees will not be hired until all laid off employees have been so recalled.
d)	It is understoodthat, when an occupation or shift is again formed, the original employees on this shift or occupation who may have been
33
transferred or demoted to another occupation and while displaced to another job have not been awarded a new occupation as a result of article 8.07 will returnto the reorganizedshiftor occupation provided that this happens within a period of one (1) year following their transfer or demotion except where such transfer would disrupt normal production flow and/or needs of the requirements of quality.
It is understoodthat the company will not use these delays to allow employees on temporary transfers to accumulate preferential position on the reformed shift.
The employee originally on the shift and the occupation must be transferred back on his shift in the shortest possible delay. After the application of this paragraph any unfilled occupations on the reformed shift are considered “Vacancies” as defined in paragraph 8.06.
8.17	Notice of change of address:
It is the duty of employees to notify the company promptly cf any change of address. If an employee fails to do this, the company will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach such employees.
8.18	Compensation:
If it is established that the seniority rights of
34
an employee have not been respected,the sole arbitrator will have the right to determine compensation to be paid by the company, if any, up to the amount of earnings lost and change the seniority date of the employee if necessary.
8.19	Seniority list:
a)	A list of seniority standings will be posted in each department showing the names of each employee in that department together with his length of continuous service with the plant in accordance with paragraph 8.01. This list will be revised every six (6) months. Copies of these posted lists shall be forwarded without delay to the union, and a copy remitted to departmental stewards and other plant union officers. After such posting, each such list shall become final with respect to the employees designated therein, except as to any employee who disputes, under the grievance procedure, the accuracy of his seniority date or the seniority date of any other employee of his department designated therein, within thirty (30) working days after the list is posted. In any event, such grievance cannot dispute the accuracy of any previous final list.
b)	The accuracy of the seniority lists may be subject to revision at any time when such inaccuracy occurs as a result of typographical error.
35
c)	The date of posting will be indicated on the seniority list.
8.20	Occupations not covered by agreement:
Appointments to occupations not covered by this agreement shall not be subject to the terms of this article 8.
8.21	Posting for future openings:
Should the company decide to give training courses to its employees, training for future openings will be posted as an occupation without assignment and shift. The posting and selection will be done according to the provisions of articles 8.07 and 8.09.
When the training is completedthe employee will return to his or her former occupation.
When the occupationfor which the employee was trained becomes open, it will be posted to allow preference of assignment and shift only among employees currently on the occupation. Then the employee that was trained will be requiredto take the opening providedthe opening occurs within one year of the completion of the training period and provided the employee has not subsequent to the training period been awarded a job postingto an occupationthat is a promotion over the future needs posting to which he was trained.
36
If more than one employee were trained in advance, seniority shall prevail with the least senior employee being required to accept the opening.
ARTICLE 9 PRODUCTIVITY
9.01
a)	During the course of the present agreement all changes concerning tasks, work assignments, piece-work rates or changes in the regular duties of an hourly-paidoccupation or changes from an hourly-rated occupation to piece-work rated occupation or vice versa and the establishment of new rates therefore shall be submitted by the company to the union.
b)	The plant manager, upon request, at any time after the commencement of change referred to in paragraphs 9.02, 9.03 and 9.04 or at any time after a written request for a revision of element time values has been submitted under paragraph 9.05, and until such time as the change is accepted or the written request for revision is settled or a decision of the sole arbitrator is rendered, shall grant the union permission to delegate a representativeto observe the effects of the said change and/or to carry out chronometrical tests himself for the purpose of
37
verification provided the said representative does not hinder the proper functioning of the department.
9.02
If a change contemplated by the company concerning a piece-work occupation has to do with the revision of a measuredwork element or the addition of a measured work element not already establishedor the complete elimination of a measured work element, the company must, at least one (I) working week prior to the application of that change, advise the union in writing of the nature of the change.
If the change applies to a measured piecework occupation and affects the existing standard time value by twenty percent (20%) or more, a period of adaptation will be applied.
The period of adaptation will have a maximum duration of four (4) weeks. During this period, the employees concerned will work under the new conditions. For wage payment purposes, the difference between the preceding and new standard time values will be applied progressively in four (4) equal increments over the four (4) week period of adaptation. At the conclusion of the period of adaptation, the full revisedstandard time values will be in effect for wage payment purposes.
38
When the change has been put into effect by the company, and the union does not agree with such change, a review will be made by a representative of the plant’s industrial engineering department and the representativeof the union. Such review will include an inspection of the job specification and summary data which formed the basis for the change. If such review does not settle the grievance, the union may refer the said change to the sole arbitrator mentioned below for his decision.
Only the work elements changed and calculations affected by the change will be subject to review by the sole arbitrator. If no request is made in writing by the union to submit such change to the sole arbitratorwithin fortyfive (45) days after the date it was put into effect, the change shall be deemed to be accepted.
9.03
If a change contemplated by the company concerning a piece-work occupation has to do with a revision of a measured work element or the addition of a measuredwork element or the complete elimination of a measured work element because of the installation of different machineryor if an hourly or piecework element because of the installation of different machinery or if a non-measuredhourly occupation is to be placed by the company on measured piece-
39
work or if a new occupation is introduced, the company must, at least two (2) working weeks prior to the application of such change, advise the union in writing cf the nature of the change. On the date that such change takes place it will be considered as underatrial period,the conditions of which are defined in paragraph 9.06 and the following paragraphs.
9.04
All changes made by the company concerning piece-work occupations other than those referred to in paragraphs 9.02 and 9.03 are to be settled, if grievances arise, by the following procedure:
Step one:
A review of the grievance is to be made by an industrial engineering representative of the company and a representative of the union.
Such review will include an inspection of the job specification and test data which form the basis for the change. The representativeof the union may also by arrangement with the industrial engineering representativeof the company visit the premises where the grievance arose. Notice a the nature of such change will be given to the union in writing.
If no grievance is made as a result of any changes referred to in this paragraph within
40
twenty (20) working days after the change is to be put into effect, the change shall be deemed to be accepted.
Step two:
If the review provided in step one above does not provide an immediate solution to the grievance, joint tests will be made by an industrial engineering representativeof the company and a representativeof the union to settle the grievance on the change concerned.
Any joint tests shall be of the same nature and to the same extent as the tests upon which the change was originally based. The extent of the joint test called for may be varied by the parties by mutual agreement.
If the results of the joint tests made by the company andthe union are such as notto affect the standard time value by plus or minus 4% or less, no change is to be made in the standard time value.
If the results of the said joint tests affect the standard time value by greater than plus or minus 4%, the standard time value will be so revised and put into effect.
If the results of the said joint tests call for an increase in the standard time value by greater than 4%, retroactivity is to be paid back to the date of the change.
41
If the parties, after having completedthe joint tests in this Step two, and after having studied their findings cannot agree on the results of the said joint tests, the union may refer the said change to the sole arbitrator mentioned below.
Step three:
The sole arbitrator shall review the change made by the company and shall make tests of the same nature and to the same extent as the tests upon which the change was originally based.
If the results of the tests made by the sole arbitrator are such as not to affect the standard time value by plus or minus 4% or less, no change is to be made in the standard time value.
If the results of the test made by the sole arbitrator affect the standard time value by greater than plus or minus 4%, the standard time value will be so revised and put into effect.
If the results of the tests made by the sole arbitrator call for an increase in the standard time value by greater than 4%, retroactivity is to be paid back to the date of the change.
It is recognized that due to their nature, changes referredto inthis paragraph9.04, may be frequent and continuing revisions of such
42
changes to reflect modifications in conditions may be called fir at any time.
9.05
a)	If no change is introduced by the company but if in the opinion of the union a change has occurred of the type covered in paragraph 9.04, in case of an unsettled complaint, a grievance may be submitted for settlement, including arbitration if necessary, in accordance with the terms of paragraph 9.04.
b)	If no change is introduced by the company of the type covered in paragraphs 9.02 and 9.03 but if in the opinion of the union a time of one or several elements of a standard time value requires modification, the following procedure will apply.
1.	When one or more element times of a standard time value which have not been previously submitted to the sole arbitrator have been in effect and a period of one (I) year has elapsed from the date of the last acceptance by the union, it may request a revision in the said standard time value. If one or more element times of a standard time value have been arbitrated this will not preclude the balance of the element times of the said standard time value not arbitrated, from the application of this paragraph. If one or more element times of a standard time value have been previously submit-
43
ted to the sole arbitrator, but if in the opinion of the union a change has occured which had not been covered by the decision of the sole arbitrator (or submitted as a change by the company) and which in their opinion affects the standard time value such contention may be submitted by the union to the sole arbitrator for his decision. In such a case the burden of proof falls on the union.
2.	Within forty-five (45) days from the written request of the union for a revision of element time values, both parties will meet to attempt to finally settle the request. Failing a mutually satisfactory settlement, the request for revision by the union may be referred to arbitration according to the dispositions of paragraph 9.11. When such a request is made for arbitration, then all the element times for a standard time value except such element times as have been previously arbitrated shall be referred to the sole arbitrator for decision.
If within the said delay of forty-five (45) days, the union does not submit its request for revision to arbitration, the said request for revision will be deemed to have been abandoned.
3.	Following a request for arbitration made by the union, according to paragraph 1 if the arbitrator finds a difference from the standard time value in effect of 4% or more, then and only
44
then shall the arbitrator decide that a change in the standard time value be put into effect in accordance with his observations. If the results of the review made by the arbitrator call for an increase in the standard time value by greater than 4%, retroactivity is to be paid back to the date of the union’s request for revision.
4.	For all requests for revisions which are raisedduring the first three (3) monthsfollowing the signature of the collective labour agreement, the retroactivity, if any, will be limited to a four (4) week period following the date the request for revisions was submitted.
9.06
Followingthe date that the changes referred to in paragraph 9.03 above take place, a trial period of twenty (20) working days will follow.
9.07
During the trial period of twenty (20) working days, the employees concerned will work under the new conditions and be paid accordingto the new rate and during the said twenty (20) working days, their average hourly earnings will not be lower than their straight time average hourly earningsduringthe lastfour (4) weeks while the employees were working on piece-work during the previoussix (6) months. In no case shall this guarantee of average hourly earnings extend beyond the said twenty (20) working days.
45
9.08
At any time during the trial period the company and the union will meet to review the results obtained during the trial period and will try to agree on the change.
9.09
Prior to the end of the sixth (6th) week following the completion of the trial period, if there is no agreement on the change, the union must notify the company and the sole arbitrator (referred to inparagraph9.11 hereafter) thereof in writing by registered mail and the change will be referred to the sole arbitrator for his decision. The parties may refer the change to the sole arbitrator prior to the completion of the trial period by mutual consent.
If such a notice is not sent during the said trial period or prior to the end of the sixth (6th) week following the completion of the trial period by the union and if no notice is sent by the company within the same period of its intention to abandon the proposed change, the said change will be considered as final and accepted by both parties.
9.10
In cases where the change is submitted to the sole arbitrator, the sole arbitrator must render hisdecisionwithin eight (8) additionalwork-ing weeks from the date a change was submit-
46
ted to him. In any event the change will remain in force until the final decision of the sole arbitrator has been rendered.
9.11
The sole arbitrator for the purpose of this article and the duration of this agreement will be an industrial engineer to be chosen by mutual agreement of the parties.
9.12
The sole arbitrator must before starting each arbitration make a sworn declaration stating that he has no pecuniary interest in the question, that he is not personally associated with or interested in a firm or company that manufactures textiles and that he is not by reason of his business affairs or any other circumstances influenced or prejudiced in favour of either employees or employers.
9.13
Each of the parties to this agreement will bear its own expenses of arbitration. The fees and expenses of the sole arbitrator will be paid for on the basis of one-half by the company and one-half by the union.
9.14
a)	All arievancesarisina out of articles9 and 10 shall be submitted to the sole arbitrator for
47
decision. In any case, the decision of the sole arbitrator must be within the frame-work of the company’s work measurement plan and wage payment methods and further the sole arbitrator shall not have the power to amend, alter or modify the terms of this agreement.
b)	For the purposes of articles 9 and 10 of the collective labour agreement, one of the fol-lowingfirms will act as arbitrator as called upon:
Woods Gordon & Co.
Charron, Bourgetel et Ass. Enrg Leatham Simpson.
9.15
The decision of the sole arbitrator will be final and binding on the union and the company and all employees or groups concerned. In so far as wages are concerned the decision will be retroactive to the commencement of the trial period should the sole arbitrator so decide and the amount of retroactive adjustments, if any, shall be determined by the said sole arbitrator.
9.16
If at any time during the trial period the company decides to abandon the proposed change, an adjustment of wages must be made in such a manner as to ensure, that for the time during which the trial period has been in force, average hourly earningsfor each employee im-
48
mediately concerned are equivalentto 100% of the average hourly earnings of that employee during the last four (4) weeks while the employee was working on piece-work during the previous six (6) months.
9.17
When the company advises the union of a change in task under paragraphs.03, itwill give to the union all pertinent information and all necessary explanations concerning such change or new occupation.
9.18
Upon request, the company will, at the commencement of a trial period, make available to a designated representative of the union for examination the job specification data referring to the establishmentof the task which has been placed on such trial period. It is understood and agreed that such job specification data is a confidential company document and is to be returned to the company within a reasonable delay and is not to be retained beyond the conclusion of such trial period.
9.19
Upon request, the company will, at the commencement of a trial period, supply inwriting to the union the average hourly earnings of each employee placed under such trial period during
49
the last four (4) weeks while the employee was working on piece-work during the previous six (6) months. The union will also be provided in writing, if they so request, with the average hourly weekly earnings of said employees during such trial period.
9.20
Grievances arising from changes in measured or unmeasured hourly-paid occupations or a regular assigned increase inthe scheduled volume of work of such an hourly-paid occupation may also be submittedto the sole arbitrator for decision within forty-five (45) days following the occurrence of the circumstancesgiving rise to the grievance or knowledge of same, as the case may be. In this case, however, the sole arbitrator shall determine whether or not the changed occupation or a regularly assigned increase in the scheduled volume of work of such an hourly-paid occupation requires more than a normaldaily work performance.The sole arbitrator shall decide the content of a normal daily work performance and the company will modifythe content of the occupation accordingly. A normal daily work performance may be defined as the average amount of work a qualified employee working at normal pace (as defined in article 10) under standard conditions, can produce over a day.
50
9.21
It is understood that all changes which affect the standard time value will be taken into account in the standard time value for the occupation.
9.22
Changes in piece-work rates shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of this article where applicable.
ARTICLE 10
WAGE PAYMENT METHODS
10.01	Measured direct occupations:
a)	Measured direct occupations are to be paid on the basis cf piece-work rates, expressed in dollars (or cents) per production or machine unit, derived from work measurement and based on ’’objective hourly rates” appearing on the rate lists for piece-work occupations annexed to this agreement, except the employees under probationary period, (paragraph 8.02 of the collective agreement).
b)	Measurement is based on the execution of each element cf work at a reference pace under usual and normal operation conditions. The reference pace is defined as "walking three miles per hour over smooth level ground without load”.
51
An employee on measured work with a one-hundred percent (100%) work assignment, including ailowancesfor rest and personal needs (varying from 10% to 25% of work time), normally exceeds the reference pace described above by 25%.
c)	The piece-work rates are calculated so that a one-hundred percent (100%) work assignment will give an employee the opportunity to earn the objective rate.
d)	For any delay or time loss beyond his control and for which he is not responsible, the frequency and length of which are not foreseeable (and which have not been taken into account in the machine efficiency calculations), the measured direct employee is paid the objective rate.
He reports these delays and time losses without delay and has them signed and approved by his department foreman or his assistant. Such are, for example, delays resulting from waiting for work, breakdown and maintenanceof machinery, powerfailure, etc...
e)	The total piece-work earnings will be calculated weekly for each employee on a measured direct occupation, and he is guaranteed that his average hourly earnings for the week will not be lower than ninety percent (90%) of the objective rate for his occupation.
52
Each employee will be informed of his guaranteed rate.
Each week, a sheet showing the following informationfor the preceding week will be posted in the department:
—	Occupation and employee’s names
—	Objective rate
—	Hours worked
—	Average hourly piece-work earnings
—	Total earnings (excluding shift and overtime premiums)
—	Percent pay performance (in relation to objective rate)
—	Payments for delays (included in the total earnings amounts)
f)	Some occupations previously paid as measured direct occupations may be reclassified by the company as measured indirect occupations, and paid according to provisions in paragraph 10.02.
Also, some occupations previously paid as measured indirect or as unmeasured occupations may be reclassified by the company as measureddirect occupations,and paid according to 10.01 (a) above.
In either case, the company will submit to the union the data pertinent to such changes at least two weeks prior to the change, and will
53
meet with the union representativeson request to explain the change.
10.02	Measured indirect occupations:
a)	Measured indirect occupations previously receiving the group indirect bonus are to be paid hourly rates appearing on the rate lists for measured hourly-paid occupations annexed to this agreement, except the employees under probationary period (paragraphs.02 of the collective agreement), and except otherwise provided in paragraph 10.03 below.
The occupations mentioned in paragraph
10.01	(f) above, reclassified from measured direct to measured indirect, are also to be paid on this same basis.
Some previously unmeasured occupations, which may be judged measurable by the company, are also to be paid on this same basis, when they have been measured and accordingly reassigned.
b)	The employees on measured indirect occupations are to be given around one-hundred percent (100%) work assignments as described in preceding paragraph 10.01 (b).
10.03	Work assignment:
a)	Experienced employees on measured occupations, direct or indirect, shall be given
54
around one-hundred percent (100%) work assignments, as defined in the preceding paragraph 10.01 (b).
It is understood that, in the case of employees on measured direct occupations and piece-work payment, there is no obligation on the company to offer such a work assignment, when the assignment is not available or when the employee is not capable or willing of handling such an assignment.
b)	An individual employee with a physical handicap may request a work assignment lower than one-hundred percent (100%) on a measured occupation. The company will consider each such request individually.
If the request is reasonable and the employee is on a measured direct occupation, he will be given a work assignment between 90% and 100%, as near as possible to his request and on his regular occupation if practical, and he will be paid his piece-work earnings.
If the employee is on a measured indirect occupation and his request is reasonable, he will be given a work assignment between 80% and 100% as near as possible to his request and on his regular occupation and if practical, and he will be paid accordingto his assignment.
At certain processes, due to the number or productive units, isolation of equipment, etc...,
55
it may be impossible or impractical to implement a reduced work assignment for an employee on such a process without reducing the volume of production to the next process. Also an employee may not be capable of handling a work assignment between90% and 100% on a measured direct occupation. In such cases, an occupational transfer for the employee will be considered in line with article 8.10 (Permanent transfers).
Such requestsfor a reduction in work assignments are limited to one per year for each employee and to one per occupation per month.
c)	In the case of an employee on a measured occupation, direct or indirect, who in the opinion of the company, is not capableorwilling of handling a 100% work assignment, the same conditions as in paragraph 10.03 (b) above for a reduced assignment or transfer will apply. However, before proceeding in this manner, the company will advise the union giving the reasons for the contemplated change.
d)	When an employee on a measures direct occupation, who in the opinion of the company is continually incapable of producing at the present guarantee rate of 90%, his guarantee rate will then become80% of the objective rate of his occupation.
56
However, before proceeding in this manner, the company will advise the union giving the reasons for such change.
Such case will be individually reviewed every six (6) months following the date of change.
10.04	Measured time values:
The measured time value is expressed in minutes and is the time required to perform an operation at a pace and with allowancesfor rest and personal needs as defined in paragraph
10.01	(b) under standard conditions.
The measured time values will not be changed except if a change in the conditions result in an increase or a decrease in the work content, or if in the opinion cf both parties an error has been made that would require an adjustment.
Checks are made to make sure that conditions are maintained in conformity with those used to calculate a measured time value.
10.05	Information:
A copy of the job specification in force will be made available in the department. If the company makes a change concerning an occupation, the job specification will be also made available in the department.
57
The method of calculation of wage payment may be checked by the employee personally or by his representative.
ARTICLE 11
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
11.01
The normal work week shall be five (5) days of eight (8) hours continuous operation as per the following:
a)	1st shift:	23h00 Sunday to 07h00 Friday
b)	2nd shift: 15h00 Monday to 23h00 Friday
c)	3rd shift: 07h00 Monday to 15h00 Friday
The working hours may be modified in order to comply with special requirements. It is understood that during the term of this agreement any changes under this paragraph wilfbe made only after agreement with the union.
Stationary Engineers will work the following:
07h00 to 19h00 — over the shift cycle 19h00 to 07h00 — over the shift cycle
It is understoodthat this shall not constitute a guarantee of hours of work per day or of days of work per week.
58
This clause will not preclude the company from having employees work longer voluntary hours than specified above, provided that the overtime provision is observed.
All employees covered by the terms of this agreement shall be entitled for all hours worked in excess of the regular daily hours specified in article II to a premium of 50% of either their regular rate or their average hourly piece-work or wage incentive plan earnings, as the case may be. It is understood that no pyramiding of premiums will apply.
11.02
a)	Work performedon Saturday and Sunday shall be paid at a rate of time and one-half the employee’s regular rate.
b)	Employees working under the weekend shift operation schedule will get a premium of fifty percent (50%) for Saturday and Sunday.
c)	If the company decides to work on a seven day operation the Saturday and Sunday premium will be at 50% for all employees.
d)	Overtime for the Saturday or Sunday is fifty percent (50%) premium over and above weekend premiums after 8 or 12 hours as the case may be.
Except employees working under seven day operation schedule or weekend operation
59
schedule it is understookthat Sunday work will be voluntary.
11.03
a)	Work performed by Stationary Engineers and Watch Keepers on Saturday and Sunday shall be paid at a rate of time and one half the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay.
b)	Overtime performed on Saturday and Sunday will be at fifty percent (50%)premium over Saturday premium and fifty percent (50%) over Sunday premium after 8 or 12 hours, as the case may be.
11.04
Hours of work for which an employee receives premium compensation under this article or Schedule II, plant holidays shall not be counted as part of the normal work week and also as hours for which a premium of time and one-half or double time is paid.
11.05	Overtime Work:
a)	Any employee may refuse to work overtime provided he has found a suitable replacement who is qualified to perform the work and notifies his department supervisor in advance.
b)	Between May 15th and Labour Day, any work performed after 23h00 Friday, shall be voluntary, except for Stationary engineers and Watch keepers. The employees who avail
60
themselves of the provisions of this paragraph will advise their supervisor forty-eight (48) hours in advance. This forty-eight (48) hour notice will only be required if the company has advised the employees previously that it intends to operate on week-end work, otherwise the said notice will not be required.
A permanent list indicating the names of employees willing to perform work during the voluntary week-end period will be kept in each department by management. Such list will indicate the preference of the employees. An employee may have his name inscribed or deleted from said fist the last Friday of every month.
Other than the cases provided for above the reasons that would excuse an employee from working during regular hours would excuse him from working overtime.
ARTICLE 12
REPORTING FOR WORK
12.01
If an employee reports for work at the regularly scheduled time for his shift, he shall be entitled to a minimum of four (4) hours work or pay at his regular hourly rate, unless previously notified by the company not to report for work. This provision shall not apply when lack of work
61
is due to conditions beyond the control of the company, or when the employee is returningto work following an absence.
ARTICLE 13
WAGE RATES AND CALL-IN PAY
13.01
a)	The rates of wages as outlined in Schedule 1 attached hereto shall be effective for the duration of this agreement.
b)	The following rate will apply to probationary employees who are new to the company.
Number of effective date - rate/hour working days	Sept. 27,	1987Sept. 25, 1988
20	6.48	6.74
20 (40)	6.58	6.84
20 (60)	6.68	6.94
After sixty (60)	working	days	the	employee
will receive the contractual rate of pay for the occupation performed by him.
The maintenance department probationary employees are excluded from this agreement.
At the discretion of the departement supervisor, ifthe employee becomesqualified before the probationaryperiod ends, the employee will be paid at the contractual rate of the occupation.
62
These rates will be in effect up untilthe end of the labour agreement, ending September 26, 1989.
13.02
When an employee is directed by the company to work in another job classification for which he/she is recognized as being qualified*, he/she will be paid according to his/her performance at the rate of the higher paid occupation. However, if the employee is not qualified on the job to which he/she has been directed, he/she will be paid their average rate of earnings unless the rate for the new job is higher, in which case the rate for the new job will be paid.
* Generally speaking, qualified means that the employee has previously satisfactorily fulfilled and has worked at least one time on that occupation in the last six (6) months.
Whenever an employee is subject to layoff and he is using his right to displace, he will then receive the rate for such other job.
13.03
An employee called at home outside his regularly scheduled hours of work shall be paid not less than the equivalent for four (4) hours’ pay at straight time rate, provided that the employee accepts such work as is available in order to qualify for such pay.
63
It is understood that such employee must have left the property of the company and has completed his regular hours of work scheduled that same day.
In the case where an employee is called to work before his regular shift for less than four (4) hours, he will be paid the number cf hours worked at the rate provided in this article if applies.
In the case where an employee is called to work before his regular shift and if for reasons such as lack of materials or abnormal working conditions, that employee is sent back home before the end of his regular shift, all hours worked before his regular daily hours will be paid at the rate of time and a half his regular pay.
It is also understood that hours for which an employee receivesa premiumunderthe provision of this article 13.03 will not be counted for the purpose of calculating the overtime premium provided in article 11.
13.04
An employee who is required for jury service will be paid, for each day of such service, the difference between either his regular hourly rate or his average hourly earnings if he is working under the wage incentive plan for the number of hours he normallyworks on hisregu-
64
lar shift, and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and the amount of pay received or to be received.
The calculations of his pay will be figured on the basis of the employee’s pay for a complete normal period of work for the shift to which he belongs during the last week in which he did such work before he was called to jury service. The provisions enumerated above will also apply to witness pay in cases where it may not otherwise be retrievable.
This paragraph 13.04 will not apply where an employee voluntarily seeks jury service.
13.05	Combined occupation:
An employee who is assigned to work on more than one occupation by the Company, recognized as a regular assignment, is regarded as working on a combined occupation. Such employee will receive for the entire shift the highest hourly contractual rate provided they have worked at least one hour on that occupation.
ARTICLE 14 SHIFT PREMIUM
14.01
a)	The company agrees to pay a shift premium of 17c starting September 27, 1987 the
65
third or night shift for hours worked between 23h00 and07h00 provided that such premium will not form part of the employee’s regular hourly rate for the purpose of incentive, overtime or any other premium or bonus compensation.
b)	The company agrees to pay a shift premium of 120 starting September 27,1987 per hour for the second or afternoon shift for hours worked between 15h00 and 23h00 provided that such premium will not form part of the employee’s regular hourly rate for the purposes of incentive, overtime or any other premium or bonus compensation.
ARTICLE 15
PLANT HOLIDAYS, VACATION WITH PAY AND INSURANCE PLAN
15.01
The plant holidays, vacations with pay and insurance plans applicable under this agreement are set forth in Schedule II, III, and IV hereof.
ARTICLE 16 BULLETIN BOARD
16.01
a) The company agrees to provide two (2) 66
notice boards located as at present, upon which the union may post notices,subject to the following conditions:
(i)	any such notice shall have received the written approval of the company prior to posting;
(ii)	no change shall be made in any such notice either by the company or by the union after it has received the approval of the company;
(iii)	notices shall be posted only on notice boards provided by the company for the use of the union;
(iv)	the subject matter of any notices posted shall be restrictedto notices of meetings, of the results of elections pertaining to the mill, or of recreational or social activities.
b) The union agrees that it will not distribute or post any pamphlets, advertising or political matter, cards, noticesor any other kind of literature, within the mill or its appurtenances, except as provided in this agreement.
ARTICLE 17 BEREAVEMENT
17.01
a)	In the event of death in the employee’s 67
immediate family (wife, husband, 'mother;, father, sister, brother, son, daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law and brother-in-law, grand-parents, common-law spouse, daughter-in-law, son-in-law) the company agrees to grant a paid leave of absence of three (3) days. It is understoodthat if one of the days referred to above falls on a paid holiday or during the employees' annual vacation or plant shut down, this or these days will be excluded.
The company will grant a one (1) day leave of absence, the day a funeral, in the event of death of a grandchild.
b)	An individual will be allowed three (3) working days off because of death in the immediate family (as defined), the third day being the day of the funeral. Saturdays and Sundays do not require payment (under normal circumstance) and reduce the required working days being off to one.
Abnormal circumstancesthat may require an additional day off and the payment for, (in instances that involve a Saturday and/or Sunday) would be in the case of an individual having to take additional time under written instructions from a doctor, or in the case of legal matters, that cannot be postponed, a lawyer.
An individual having been scheduled for work on a Saturday or Sunday and who is res-
68
tricted from doing so because of a death in the immediate family, would be paid for such lost time at his/her regular rate.
c)	For the Stationary Engineers a day shall constitute of 12 hours.
ARTICLE 18 UNION SECURITY
18.01
The company agrees to deduct from the wages of an employee, upon receipt of a signed authorization card in the form set-out in Schedule V of this agreement, the union dues as authorized by the union.
Any changes shall be given in writing to the company seven (7) days prior to effective date of said deduction.
18.02
From the wages received by an employee, the union dues will be deducted weekly on a uniform basis, but the company will remit monthly the amount deducted to the Ontario office of the UnitedTextile Workers cCf America, whose receipt therefore shall be considered as a discharge to the company of all liability for the amount so deducted. The union will keep the
69
company harmless of any claims by an employee.
18.03
In the event that for a period as mentioned in paragraph 18.02 an employee does not earn wages, the company will not deduct union dues. The obligation will be to recommence deductions from the first pay period following the employee’s return to work.
18.04
As a condition of employment all employees must sign an authorization form of an equal amount of uniondues as set forth in Schedule V of this agreement.
18.05
The remittance to the union cf the deductions made under this article will be accompanied by a statement showing the names of each employee from whose pay such deduction has been made.
18.06
Depending upon the company’s capability, once per week, for the previous week, the company will remit to the president of the local union a list indicating the following informations pertaining to its new, laid off and recalled employees.
70
1.	Name
2.	Department
3.	Occupation
4.	Date of employment
5.	Date of layoff and seniority
6.	Date of recall (if applicable).
ARTICLE 19 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01
The company may grant leave of absence to any employee for legitimate personal reasons. Any leave of absence granted by the company shall be limited to three (3) months. Subject to the provisions of this agreement, the employee may return to his regular job when the leave of absence expires if he is still qualified and has the necessary seniority.
19.02
An employee on the seniority list will be granted permission for absence while a recognized physician continues to certify him as unfit by reason of sickness or injury for any work offered by the company: provided the duration of such absence does not exceed the length of time represented by the employee’s seniority or nine (9) months whichever is the lesser. However, by mutual agreement, permission for
71
absence may be extended beyond nine (9) months on a month by month basis. Subject to the provisions of this agreement, the employee may return to his regularjob when the leave of absence expires if he is still qualified and has the necessary seniority.
19.03
An employee who has completed the required probationaryperiod shall, on request, be granted pregnancy leave, subject to the following terms and conditions:
a)	the employee shall notify the personnel manager not later than the third month of pregnancy and submit a certificate from a recognized physician;
b)	the employee shall continue to work as long as her physical condition permits, but her leave of absence shall commence as soon as she is unable to work regularly and perform her regular job satisfactorily;
c)	the employee shall, if possible, give the company at least two (2) weeks notice of intention before commencing leave;
d)	within three (3) months after confinement the employee shall notify the company of the date she will be available to return to work, which date shall be not more than six (6) months after confinement and the employee
72
shall apply for work within such six (6) month period; provided, however, that in case of premature termination of the pregnancy the employee shall apply for work as soon as she is physically able;
e)	the employee shall confirm the exact date on which she will be available to return to work by notifying the company accordingly not more than two (2) weeks and not less than one (1) week before such date;
f)	following proper notification to the company, the employee shall be returned to a job in her last job classification if she is still qualified and has the necessary seniority. If not qualified under the foregoing provision, then she will be granted another job, provided she is willing and qualified to perform the work and has the necessary seniority.
19.04
The company will grant leave of absence to attend official business authorized by the International to not more than six (6) employees subject to the following conditions:
a)	that at least one week’s written notice be given to the company designating the persons for whom such leave is desired;
b)	the number of employees from any one department to be mutually agreed, provided at least one may be elected from a department;
73
19.05
If an employee overstays his leave of absence, he is presumed to have severed his employment with the company, unless he can give a satisfactory explanationfor his inability to return to work on the expiry date of his leave of absence.
ARTICLE 20 NOTICES
20.01
Exceptwhere otherwise provided, any notice which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by prepaid registered mail as follows:
(I)	To the company:
Personnel Manager Caldwell
Division of Dominion Textile Inc. Iroquois, Ontario KOE 1K0
(II)	To the union:
United Textile Workers of America Local 478
360 St. Paul Street St. Catharines,
Ontario
L2R 3N2
74
20.02
Any notice given as aforesaid shall be deemed given and received as of the business day following the date of mailing.
ARTICLE 21
RENEWAL, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
21.01
This agreement shall continue in effect until the 26th dav of September 1989. and shall continue automatically thereafter for annual periods of one year each, unless either party notifies the other in writing during the period of one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the expiration date that it desires to amend or terminate this agreement.
21.02
Negotiations shall begin within fifteen (15) days following notification for amendment of this agreement, prior to the current expiration date it shall expire, unless it is extended for a specific period by mutual agreement of the parties.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representativesthis 4th day of November 1987.
75
For the union: E. Bosma G. Baker C. Gibson
R. Wynd
E. Sipes
For the company: J. Theberge W. Spencer
J. Lefebvre W. Jones
76
SCHEDULE I
"A'
TRADESMEN
CONTRACTUAL RATES OF PAY
OCCUPATIONS	AT EFFECTIVE DATES
09-27-1987	09-25-1988
TRADES:
Chief Operating Stationary Engineer Stationary Engineer, 2nd class Stationary Engineer, 3rd class MAINTENANCE:
General Maintenance (ticketed) General Maintenance Electrical Technician, grade 1 Electrical Technician, grade 2 Technician Apprentice, 2nd year Technician Apprentice, 1st year Instrumentation Technician, grade 1 Instrumentation Technician, grade 2
13.410
12.310
12.200
11.915 11.065
12.690
11.990 11.775 11.560
12.690
11.990
13.950
12.800
12.690
12.390
11.510
13.200
12.470 12.245 12.025
13.200
12.470
UNMEASURED HOURLY PAID OCCUPATIONS
CONTRACTUAL RATES OF PAY
OCCUPATIONS
AT EFFECTIVE DATES
09-27-1987
09-25-1988
WEAVE ROOM
Assignment Checker , DYE & BLEACH
-vl •
00 Utility Employer Piler
SHIPPING & RECEIVING
Shipper
Assistant Shipper Sample Clerk Inventory Checker Hoist Operator Fork Lift Operator Packer Checker
8.750	9.100
8.780	9.135
8.760	9.110
9.280
9.185
9.005
8.955
8.775
8.800
8.770
9.655
9.555
9.365
9.315
9.125
9.150
9.120
•^1
to
Picker Packer Receiver Utility Employee Cloth Roller
Finishing Towelling Inspector Reprocessor (price tagging) SERVICE
Quality Assurance Reinspector
Quality Assurance Inspector
Laboratory Tester
Mill Tester
Shop Helper
Humidity Attendant
Supply Room Hand
Watch Keeper
Sanitation (Janitor)
SEWING ROOM Sweeper
8.760	9.110
8.725	9.075
8.615	8.960
8.615	8.960
8.760	9.110
8.615	8.960
9.335	9.705
9.275	9.650
9.160	9.525
9.120	9.485
9.040	9.400
8.960	9.320
8.955	9.315
8.810	9.160
8.640	8.985
8.455	8.795
“C”
MEASURED HOURLY PAID OCCUPATIONS
CONTRACTUAL RATES OF PAY
OCCUPATIONS
AT EFFECTIVE DATES
09-27-1987
09-25-1988
YARN PREPARATION
Fixer
Winder Tender
00
o Yarn Supplier WEAVE ROOM
Fixer Unifil & Uster Pattern Cutter Smash Hand Chain Builder Drawing-in Hand Beam Handler Cloth Doffer Oiler
10.735
9.385 9.160
10.750
9.925
9.550
9.445
9.385 9.390 9.380 9.335
11.165
9.760 9.525
11.180
10.320
9.935
9.825
9.760 9.765 9.755 9.705
Loom Cleaner Sweeper SEWING ROOM
Sewing Technician Sewing Fixer Section Hand Re-Inspector Secondary Classer Remnant Sorter Utility Employee Sewing Supplier
9.095
9.090
11.000 10.760 9.755 9.335 9.190
9.130
9.130 9.055
9.460
9.455
11.440
11.190
10.145
9.705
9.560
9.495
9.495 9.420
00
N>
“D”
MEASURED PIECEWORK PAID OCCUPATIONS
OCCUPATIONS	CONTRACTUAL RATES OF PAY AT EFFECTIVE DATES	
	09-27-1987	09-25-1988
	obj. guar.	obj. guar.
YARN PREPARATION
Slasher Tender Warper Tender Size Mixer Helper Warper Creeler WEAVE ROOM Fixer Jacquard Fixer Dobby Weaver Jacquard Weaver Regular Tying Machine Operator
9.855
9.650
9.580
9.315
10.975
10.875
10.040
9.940
9.995
8.870
8.685
8.620
8.385
9.880
9.790
9.035
8.945
8.995
10.250
10.035
9.965
9.690
11.415
11.310
10.445
10.340
10.395
9.225
9.030
8.965
8.720
10.275
10.180
9.400
9.305
9.355
DYE & BLEACH
Cold Pad Tender Assistant Cold Pad Tender Dye Beck Tender Dye Beck Helper Unroller Tender Bleach Range Tender Scutcher Tender Loop Dryer Tender oo SEWING ROOM
CO
Slitter Tender
Shearer Tender
Double Side Hemmer Operator
Single Side Hemmer Operator
Auto End Hemmer Operator
Cloth Inspector
10.295	9.265
9.770	8.795
9.805	8.825
9.350	8.415
9.650	8.685
9.790	8.810
9.675	8.710
9.650	8.685
9.675	8.710
9.635	8.670
9.710	8.740
9.565	8.610
9.615	8.655
9.410	8.470
10.705	9.635
10.165	9.150
10.200	9.180
9.725	8.755
10.035	9.030
10.180	9.160
10.065	9060
10.035	9.030
10.065	9.060
10.020	9.020
10.100	9.090
9.945	8.950
10.000	9.000
9.790	8.810
00
OCCUPATIONS	“D” (Cont’d) CONTRACTUAL RATES OF PAY AT EFFECTIVE DATES	
	09-27-1987	09-25-1988
	obj. guar.	obj. guar.
SEWING ROOM (Con’t) Auto Side Hemmer Operator Poly Wrapper Packer Side Hemmer Classer Line & Regular Face Cloth Classer Parceller Cutter
Sewing Machine Operator
Overedger
Labeller
Towel Marker
9.575	8.620
9.520	8.570
9.455	8.510
9.450	8.505
9.450	8,505
9.385	8.445
9.350	8.415
9.340	8.405
9.340	8.405
9.340	8.405
9.320	8.390
9.960	8.965
9.900	8.910
9.835	8.850
9.830	8.845
9.830	8.845
9.760	8.785
9.725	8.750
9.710	8.740
9.710	8.740
9.710	8.740
9.695	8.725
Applique Machine Operator Repairer
Polybagger, Sealer, Packer SHIPPING & RECEIVING
Set Maker Monogram Operator
9.280
9.250
9.220
9.175
9.485
8.350
8.325
8.300
8.260
8.535
9.655
9.620
9.590
9.545
9.865
8.690
8.655
8.630
8.590
8.880
oo
U1
SCHEDULED PLANT HOLIDAYS
1
a)	Except for Stationary Engineers and Watch Keepers, no work will be performed on the following days which will be recognized as paid holidays:
New Years’s Day (Jan. 1) Civic Holiday ~ '	Thanksgiving day
An eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth holiday are granted as agreed below:
Following is the schedule of holidays to be observed at the 1987-88, 1988-89 Xmas period. During these periods the three floaters are established to occur as below:
* In the event of Dominion Dayoccuring on a Tuesday to Thursday, inclusive it shall be observed on a Monday. The company shall post the date of observance of such holiday in advance.
If a plant holiday occurs on a Saturday or Sunday, the company will post the date of observance of such holiday which will be on a Friday or Monday.
Labour Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Victoria Day Dominion Day*
86
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1987	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
Dec.	FL	H
27	28	29	30	31	1	2
H FL FL	H	H
1988	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
Dec.	H	H	FL	FL	H
1	2	3
H
The 3rd floater will be observed on the 1988 Easter Monday.
b)	Any work required by management other than stationary engineers and watch keepers on these holidays shall be on a voluntary basis by seniority providedthey are qualified to do the work.
2.	Plant holiday pay will be computed on the basis of eight (SJhoursatthe employee’s regular hourly rate of pay in the case of timeworkers, and on the basis of eight (8) hours at the employee’s straight time average hourly earnings for the pay period in which the holiday occurs in the case of piece-workers.
3.
a) In order to qualify for plant holiday pay the employee must work his full scheduled shifts on each of the work days immediately preceding and immediately following the plant holiday
87
concerned, except in the case where the employee was prevented from working these declared working days because of duly certified illness, or death in his immediate family (husband, wife, child, father, mother, brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grand-parents, common-law spouse, daugter-in-law, son-in-law) or if the employee had permission from the company to be excused from work on these two days, provided he has effectively worked during one of the four weeks precedingthe week in which the holiday occurs. If an employee has not worked the declared working days previous to and following the holiday for reasons of being laid off, he will be entitled to the paid holiday, provided he has effectively worked during the week preceding the week in which the holiday occurs.
b)	Any holiday or holidays occuring during an employee’s vacation, will entitle the employee to add additional corresponding day(s) to their vacation. The selection of the said day(s) will be allowed after mutual agreement with his supervisor.
c)	If an employee has not worked the declared working days previous to and following the statutory holiday or statutory holidays and that more than one (1) statutory holiday falls on consecutive days, the company may notpenal-
88
ize the employee for more than one (1) statutory holiday.
4.	An employee who is requiredto work on a plant holiday will be paidfor work performed on such day at one and one-half time his regular straight time rate of pay in addition to his holiday pay-
5.	Stationary Engineers and Watch Keepers shall receive pay for the plant holidaysset out in this Schedule in accordance with the terms hereof and when required to work on a plant holiday will be paid for work performed on such day at time and one-halftime his regular rate of pay.
6.	Pay day will continue to be on Thursday at 16h00 except when a statutory holiday falls on a Thursday, in which case the pay will be distributed on the following working day at 16h00.
SCHEDULE Ml VACATIONS WITH PAY
1.	The company agrees to grant two (2) weeks’ continuous vacation to each employee in its service at the commencement of such vacation. The company may close all or part of the plant for vacation purposesduring the summer months and will endeavour to have the
89
vacation shutdown during the last two (2) weeks of July, if business conditions permit.
Any employee with five (5) years’ continuous service with the company is entitled to a third week of vacation.
Any employee with fifteen (15) years continuous service with the company is entitledto a fourth week of vacation.
In the selection of an employee’s dates of vacation, an employee having more seniority will have preference over an employee with less seniority.
Employees in departments which do not have an annual shutdown period will indicate before April 15th their preference as to the dates of their first and second weeks of vacation.
Employees entitled to a third (3) or fourth (4) week vacation will indicate before April 15th, their preference as to the dates of the period of the third and fourth weeks vacation.
The third (3) and fourth (4) weeks vacation will be scheduled as far as possible in advance to coincide with the wishes expressed by the employees taking into consideration the needs of production.
The company agrees for departments that do not have the annual plant shutdown, the em-
90
ployees in these departments can have their vacation pays received during their elected vacation weeks.
2.	Total amount of vacation pay and time of each employee shall be based on his length of continous service with the company and shall exclude previous vacation pay. The above-mentioned shall be computed in accordance with the table set forth below.
Percentage of pay shall be for the twelve (12) months preceding the last full pay period of June.
The number of years of continuous service used in reckoningthe amount of week for which an employee is entitled to take under the terms of this article will be computed as of the 30th of June prior to the “Annual Vacation Weeks”.
TABLE CF VACATIONTIME AND PAYMENT
In effect from September 27th, 1987 to September 26th, 1989, the following vacation time and table will apply:
Years’ service	Vacation	Payment (%)
	Entitlement (weeks)	
0-I	2	4.0
I-5	2	4.5
5-10	3	6.5
10-15	3	7.5
	91	
Years’ service
Vacation
Entitlement (weeks) 4 4 4
Payment (%)
8.5
9.5 10.5
Except for maintenanceemployees any work performed during the annual shutdown will be offered on a voluntary basis and by seniority provided they are qualified to do the work.
The company will confirm through posting the date of the plant shutdown (annual vacation) by April 1st. The employees concerned will in such case have up to April 15thto select the date of their first and second week vacation.
I.	The company agrees to insure the employees in accordance with the general plan that has been discussed and agreed to with the union. This plan will be administered by recognized insurance companies and/or associations. Each employee will receive a copy of the plan.
The following schedule of insurance will be provided (as of November 4th, 1987):
SCHEDULE IV
INSURANCE PLAN
92
(i)	Life insurance:
All employees.............. $10,000.00
(ii)	Weekly sickness and Accident benefits:
All employees___ 60% of earnings or____
$175.00 per week (maximum)
Benefitsto commence on first day of an accident, first day of hospitalization or fifth day of sickness and will be allowed up to a maximum of 26 weeks.
2.	An employee shall not become entitled to the above-mentioned benefits unless he has three (3) months continuous service with the company.
3.	It is agreed that effective November4th, 1987, the eligible employees will contribute a weekly amount of one dollar and seventy five cents ($1.75) towards the above-mentioned benefits the company contributing the difference in cost, also that any future increase in premiums will be absorbed on a 50/50 basis by the employees and the company. However, any request by the employees for additional benefits during the present agreement, the additionnal weekly cost will be fully absorbed by the employees.
4.	It is understood that all employees must adhere to the company’s group Insurance Plan upon reachingtheir respectivedate of eligibility
93
and must maintaintheir participation inthe Plan throughout their period of employment with the company.
5.	It is also agreed that on November 4, 1987, the employees’weekly contributions towards the Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan (O.H.I.P.) were as follows:
Single coverage.........$3.80 per week
Family coverage.........$7.58 per week
Any future increase in premiums for the Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan (O.H.I.P.) will also be absorbed on a 50/50 basis by the employees and the company.
94
SCHEDULEV
AUTHORIZATION CARD TO: CALDWELL
Division of Dominion Textile Inc.
(date)
I, the undersigned, hereby authorize Caldwell, Division of Dominion Textile Inc. to deduct weekly and from my first full pay period, union dues as set forth by the United Textile Workers of America and remit same monthly to said union.
I, hereby renounce in advance to any recourse in damages or otherwise against Caldwell, Division of Dominion Textile Inc. for making the above- mentioned deductions during such period as this authorization may be in force.
(Witness)
(Employee)
95
(Witness)
November 4th, 1987
United Textile Workers of America Local 478
360 St. Paul Street St Catharines, Ontario L2R 3N2
Gentlemen,
This will confirm our understanding^ all matters agreed upon today at the signing of the new collective labour agreement between the United Textile Workers of America (local 478) and Caldwell, Division cf Dominion Textile Inc. with respect of its plant lodated in the corporation cf Village of Iroquois, in the Township of Matilda.
This letter of agreement will remain in force from the day of signing up to and including September 26th, 1989.
Evaluated rate schedule:
The letter of August 19, 1971 continues to form part of the collective labour agreement.
1. Scissors allocation:
The company will replace scissors that have been broken by accident without any charge for the employees. This article will apply not more than twice a year. This applies for jobs requesting the utilisation of scissors only.
96
2.	Safety shoes:
Safety shoes will be furnished to employees eligible to participate in the company’s Safety Shoe Program.
Dyehouse employees are eligible to two (2) pairs per year at $50.00 maximum per pair. It is agreed that these employees will be eligible for an additional pair if their second pair should become unserviceable before the year is out.
All other employees on the pre-established list are eligiblefor one (1) pair peryear at $50.00 maximum per pair.
3.	Uniform:
Eligible Dyehouse employees as per the list will be furnished with lab coat and Weave RoomOilers will be furnishedwith coveralls at a rate of two (2) pairs per year paid in full by the company.
4.	Optional schedule of hours of work:
If the need arises the company will have. the right to institute a seven (7) day operation schedule for all plant, a department or part of a department.
In such a case both the union and the employees will be previously contacted in order to discuss the type of schedule or any other items related to such an implementation.
97
5.	Tradesmen:
It is understood that tradesmen that have begun a task on regular schedule hours will be required to complete the task when completion of work cannot be delayed.
6.	Retroactivity:
1. A retroactive payment as follows for each hourworked between September27,1987 and October 17, 1987, both days inclusive, will be paid to all employees who are employed by the company or have seniority rights on the date of signing of said new agreement, as well as those employees who have retired between the above mentioned dates. This retroactive payment will be distributed to all employees as soon as possible.
7.	Benefit plan:
In each year of the agreement, the company will deduct two cents (0.023) per hour worked per employee, to be used by the union toward their benefit plan. That cumulated amount will be sent monthly to the United Textile Workers cf America.
8.	Sunday premium for Stationary Engineers: It is understoodthat the hereafter mentioned
Stationary Engineerswill be paid at the rate of a hundred and eighty five percent (185%) for work performed on Sunday, during the lifetime of the present collective labour agreement:
98
)00
CLASS
EMPLOYEES'
RATE
SEPT. SEPT. 27/87	25/88
Chief Op. Stat. Eng. 13.635 14.180 3rd Class Stat. Eng. 12.425 12.925 3rd Class Stat. Eng. 12.425 12.925 3rd Class Stat. Eng. 12.425 12.925
N.B.: $0.20 per hourwill be added to the Stationary Engineers’ rate. This $0.20 per hourwill be added before the general increase and will be effective as of September 27th, 1987.
9.	Voluntary overtime work: re 11,05b
Between May 15th and Labour Day, any work performed after 23h00 Friday, shall be voluntaiy, except for Stationary Engineers and Watch Keepers.
Employees willing to perform overtime work Saturday during the voluntary weekend period will sign the overtime posting sheet by every Tuesday noon hour.
The company will advise by Friday 10h00 if work is available.
If there are not enough volunteer employees to fill the needs cf production on Saturday only, the company may, at its discretion, use other workers to meet these needs. It S understood
99
that those workers will be paid at regular straight time rate without regard to the other provisions of this collective labour agreement and will have no rights under the collective labour agreement.
10.	"Ad Hoc" Labour/Management Committee:
During the lifetime of the collective labour agreement, the parties agree to meet to discuss all matters related to productivity or flexibility of administration, production, communication, cost reduction, etc., in order to evaluate the possibilities of improvingeach one of these or any other matters, taking into consideration the well-being of employees as well as the well-being of the company.
By mutual agreement the parties will attempt to identify the areas where such improvements might be applied and the possible solutions to be implemented.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representatives this November 4th of 1987.
For the union:	E. Bosma	R. Wynd
G. Baker	E. Sipes
C. Gibson
For the company: J. Theberge J. Lefebvre W. Spencer W. Jones
100