COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
ST. LAWRENCE CORPORATION
and
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
LOCAL 175
oo?<3l$? (of)
I
2
3
4
5
6
7
a
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
1
1
1
2
7
8
8
9
23
29
33
39
39
41
41
41
42
44
46
47
48
49
62
65
67
68
INDEX
Recognition and Coverage...........................
Relationship.......................................
Management Functions...............................
Representationand Grievance Procedure..............
Arbitration........................................
Discharge Cases ...................................
Strikes and Lockouts ..............................
Seniority..........................................
Productivity.......................................
Wage Payment Methods...............................
Hours of Work and Overtime.........................
Reporting for Work.................................
Wage Rates and Call-in Pay ........................
Shift Premium......................................
Plant Holidays.Vacation With Pay. and Insurance Plan
Bulletin Board.....................................
Bereavement........................................
Union Security ....................................
Leave of Absence...................................
Notices............................................
Renewal, Amendment, and Termination................
Schedule I - Rates of Pay..........................
Schedule II - Plant Holidays.......................
Schedule III - Vacations with Pay..................
Schedule IV - Insurance Plan.......................
Schedule V - General
kcuiuinml. urrioc:
U.F.C.W. LOCAL175 20 HAMILTONAVENUE NORTH OTTAWA, ONTARIO K1Y1B6
TELEPHONE: 1-613-725-2154 or 1-800-267-5295
This agreement entered into as of the 13thday of July, 2002.
BETWEEN:
ST. LAWRENCECORPORATION, inthe Township of SouthDundas, inthe Provinceof Ontario (hereinafterreferredto as the "COMPANY).
OF THE FIRST PART
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIALWORKERS (Local 175) (hereinafter referredto as the "UNION").
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICI F ■- RECOGNITIONAND COVERAGE
1.01	The Company recognizesthe Unionas the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent with respectto all matters properly arising under this agreement for all cf the Company's hourly rated and piece-workemployees at it's plant inthe Townshipof South Dundas, save and except Supervisors, persons above the rank of Supervisors, Office and Sales Staff, as certified by the Ontario Labour Relations Board, the 29th day of April, 1969.
1.02	Where the masculinepronounis used herein, it shall mean and includethefeminine pronounwhere the context so applies.
ARTICLE 2- RELATIONSHIP
2.01	a) The Company agrees that there will be no discrimination, interference,
restraint, or coercion exercised or practised by the Company or by any cf it's representativeswith respectto any employee, becauseof his membership in, or lawful activities on behalf cf the Union.
u. The Unionagrees that there will be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised upon employees of the Company by any of its members or representatives.
The partiesagree that there will be no discrimination against any employee because of his race,colour, language, creed, religion,sex, handicap,sexual orientation, age, marital status or record of offences.
2.02	The Unionagrees that there will not be any Unionactivities or business conducted on the premisesof the Company, except as permitted by this agreement.
2.03	Work PerformedbyManagementPersonnel: Work normallydone by employees inthe Bargaining Unitwill not be performed by Management personnel, except when actually instructing or training employees, in emergency cases, when it is a question of experimental work for the production of samples for development purposes or other researchwork deemed necessary by the Company.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is exclusively the function of the Company to: . maintain order, discipline and efficiency;

hire, discharge, classify, direct, transfer, promote, demote, lay off and suspend or otherwise discipline employees, subject to the right to lodge a grievance as herein provided;
make and alter from time to time rules and regulationsto be observed by the employees, providedthat they are not inconsistentwiththe provisionsof this agreement; and
generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is d) engaged and, without restrictingthe generality of the foregoing, to introduce or change machine processes; to make studies of and to institutechanges in work loads, job assignments, wage payment methods, methods of operation and work payment rates; to determine the products to be manufactured,methodsof manufacture, schedules of production, kinds and locationof machinesand tools to be used, processes of manufacturing,the engineeringand designingof it's products, the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced and the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations.
3.02 Inthe case where the Company exercises it's options as described in paragraph
3.01	c) it will notify the Union in writing five (5) working days prior to the implementation of such and poston the general bulietin boards in the same time frame.
3.03	The Company agreesthat these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the other provisions of this agreement.
___riCLE 4 - REPRE3ENTA1______AND_______/_______________IE
4.01	a) The Union may elect or appoint from employees in each of the following departments, Stewards whose duties shall be to assist employees working inthe Steward's department, and shiftwhere applicable, in presentingtheir grievances to the designated representativesof the Company in accordance with the grievance procedure:
Department Yam Preparation Weave Dye& Bleach Sewing
Number of Stewards One (1) per shift One ^Igjer shift One (1) per shift One (1) per shift
One (1)
Maintenance (includes Boiler House)
Shipping and Receiving	One (1) per shift
b)
The Company acknowledgesthe right of the Unionto appoint or select from amongst the Department Stewards on each shift, a representative to be known as a Chief Steward for that shift.
4.02	The Company agreesto recognizea Grievance Committee composed of persons designated as Stewards, or Chief Steward, the Chairmanofwhich shallbethe Chief Steward or his designate, provided that not more than six (6) members of the committee (including the Chairman) shall meet with the Company at one time to deal with a grievance.
It is understood that the above mentioned number cf Union Stewards will not exceed one (1) peroccupationwithin the same department and neither exceed two (2) per department if they are on different occupations.
4.03	Employees shall not be eligible to serve as Stewards or as Chief Steward or as members of the Grievance Committee unless they have been in the Company's continuous employ for ai l east three (3) months.
4.04	The Unionshall keep the Company notified inwriting of the names of its authorized Stewards and Chief Steward, and the respective effective dates of their appointment. The Company shall keep the Union notified in writing of the names of supervisorswho may be called upon to act with respectto the administration of this agreement.
4.05	(a)
(b)
The Union acknowledges that the Stewards and Chief Stewards and membersofthe Grievance Committee have their regulardutie|s to perform on behalf of the Company and that such personswill notleave Itheir regular duties without receiving permissionfrom their Supervisor, whicjh will not be unreasonablywithheld. They shall statetheirdestinationto their1 Supervisor, together with their reasons therefore, and shall report ag|ain to their
£2 W «.■ I W I	v.	I WW.WWI ■ w v. I W I W ■ W ■ W , Ml IVI WllWtll I	* MWMt I I	Wl IWII
Supervisor at the time of their return to work if the Supervisor is in the department.
Time spent by Steward Committee members for Labour njianagement meetingswill be paid as follows:
ForEiahtfS) HourShift-
EmployeeWorking7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
paidfor meetingtime plus one (1) hour
Employee Working 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p,m.
-	paidfor meetingtime plus one ^ ll^jour
-	employeeworks balance of his regular shift
Employeeworking 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
. Employee to be excused from his entire shift either immediately before or after the meeting day and paid for the shift
ForTwelve(121 Hour ShiftEmployeeworking 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 pm
-	paidfor meetingtime plus one ^IR>ur
Employeeworking 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
-	employee to be excused from his entire shift either immediately before or after the meeting as decided by the employee and paid for the shift
Employee Day Off
-	Paidfor meetingtime plus one (1) hour
4.06	It is the mutual desire cf the parties heretothat complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and it is understood that an employee has no grievance until he has first given his Supervisor an opportunity of adjusting his complaint. If an employee has a complaint, he shall discuss with his Supervisor, with or without the assistance of a Union Steward, within fifteen (15) working days for active employees, or twenty (20) working days for laid off employees, after the occurrenceofthecircumstancesgiving risetothe complaint, and failing settlement it may then betaken up as a grievance within three (3) working days (seven (7) working days for employees onweekend shifts) following receiptof the Supervisor's decision as follows:
STEP NO. I
The employeewill present his grievance inwriting to his Supervisor. The employee concerned and the Steward, or in case of absence of the Steward, the Chief Steward shall discuss the grievance with the Supervisor.
Failing a settlement, the Supervisor shall deliver his decision in writing three (3) working days (seven (7) working days for employees on weekend shifts) following the presentation of the grievance to him. Failing settlement:
4
4.06 STEP NO. 2
Within three (3) working days, (seven (7) working days for employees on weekend shifts) afterthe decision is given under Step. No. 1, the grievance will be submitted in writing and presented by the employee accompanied by the Steward, or in the case of absence of the Steward, by the Chief Steward to the Personnel Manager. The grievance shall state the reason(s) for the Supervisor's decision in writing, under Step. No. I being unacceptable. The Personnel Manager shall deliver his decision in writing, within six (6) working days (seven (7) working days for employees on weekend shifts) after receiving the written grievance. Failing settlement:
STEP NO. 3
Within five (5) working days (seven (7) working days for employees on weekend shifts) afterthe decision is given under Step No.2, the grievor with the assistance of the Grievance Committee, will submit the grievance in writing to the Plant Manager, or in his absence, the Personnel Manager of the Company. The grievance shall state the reason(s) for the Plant Manager or Personnel Manager's decision under Step No. 2 being unacceptable. A meeting will then be held betweenthe Plant Manageror PersonnelManager and the GrievanceCommittee, and an accredited representative of the Union shall be present at the request of either the Company or the Union. The Steward from the area concerned or the Chief Steward, if he has beenpreviously involved inthesettlementofthat grievance may displace one of the members of the Grievance Committee at such meeting. The Union Committeewill notify the Company of any Steward or Grievor wishing to attend a meetingconcerningtheir grievance. The decision of the Plant Manageror Personnel Managershall be delivered in writing within seven (7) working days.
It is understood that the Plant Manager or Personnel Manager may have such counsel and assistanceas he may desire at any meetingwith the UnionGrievance Committee.
4.07	Any policy grievance or collective grievance may be submitted by the Department Stewardor in case of absence of the DepartmentSteward, bythe Chief Steward or Assistant Chief Stewardto the Shift SupervisororDepartmentSupervisorwithin the same delays as spelled out above, provided said grievance is signed by at leastone of the employees involved, and/or one of the Officers of the Union,
4.08	Failing settlement under the foregoing procedure of any difference between the partiesarisingfrom the interpretation,application, administrationorallegedviolation of this agreement, includingany question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, such difference or question may besubmittedto arbitrationas hereinafter provided. If no written requestfor arbitration is receivedwithin ten (10) working days afterthe
5
decision under Step No. 3 is given, it shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned.
4.09	Forthe purposesof Articles 4 and 5, a working day means a day from Monday to Friday, excluding Statutory Flolidaysand days when the Personnel Departments closed.
4.10	All agreements reached under the Grievance Procedure between the representativesof the Company and the representatives of the Union or between the employee(s) and the Company, provided it is not contrary to the provisions of this agreement, will be final and binding uponthe Company, the Union, and the employees. The Union will be notified of any agreement reached under this procedure.
4.-11 In all steps of the Grievance Procedure,where nowritten answer has been given within the time limits specified, theemployee(s) concernedorthe Union, as the case may be, shall beentitledto submit the grievance to the next step of the Grievance Procedure, including arbitration.
4.12	At any step of the Grievance Procedure, necessary arrangementswill bemadeto permitthe'conferring partiesto haveaccesstothe plantto viewdisputedoperations andto conferwith necessarywitnesses, providedsufficientadvance noticeisgiven.
4.13	Any and alltime limits fixed bythisarticleandArticle5 may at any time be extended by written agreement betweenthe Company and the Union.
4.14	At the request of either party, a meetingwill be held once each month betweenthe GrievanceCommitteeand a Company Committeeappointed by the PlantManager. Such meeting shall be held not morethan two (2) weeks after the presentationof the proposed agenda by the party requestingthe meeting.
4.15	a) No monetary adjustment affected under the Grievance Procedure or
Arbitration Procedure shall be made retroactive prior to the date the grievance was formally presented to the Company under the Grievance Procedure,except as to a grievance claiming payment of an improperwage rate, which may be made retroactiveto the date the grievance occurred.
,. Incases of missedovertime, or incorrect order of recallover (8) eight hours, ' for the (5) five day schedule, or (12) twelve hours for the weekend, or (7) seven day schedule, the Company shall pay for all lost wages incurred, anything (8) eight hours or (12) twelve hours or less as per these schedules shall be rectified by remedy in kind. Such remedy in kind for employees affected to (12) twelve hours for the weekend or (7) seven day schedule meaning performing (8) eight hours of work for the (12) twelve hours compensation.
6
4.16	The Union Representativeofthe Union shall be admitted during working hours, at reasonable times to interview employees while on duty or to inspect working conditions provided he has received permissionfrom the Personnel Manager or in his absence, the person in charge of the plant on the occasion of each such visit. Permissionfor such visits will not be unreasonably withheld and the visits shall be calculatedto cause a minimum of disturbancewith the employer's business.
ARTICLE S - ARBITRATION
5.01	When a written noticefor arbitration is receivedbythe Company inaccordancewith the terms of Article 4.08, the grievance shall forthwith be submitted to a sole arbitratorto be chosen in rotation amongstthe following arbitrators:
DavidStarkman Debra Leighton Richard Brown Ian Deans
In the event that the designated sole arbitrator cannot meet the parties within a reasonable delay, or in the event that the designated sole arbitrator has not yet rendered his decision on a previous grievance, the next arbitrator will be chosen.
In the event that all above mentioned arbitrators are unavailable, or should the partiesmutuallyagree, the partieswillrequestthatthe DepartmentofLabourofthe Province of Ontario designate an arbitrator.
Should the grievance concern a task, job assignment and/or work payment rates, the arbitrator shall be a competent Textile Engineer appointed from any of the following:
Charron, Bourgetel etAss. Enrg.
Woods, Gordon& Co.
or such other qualified IndustrialTextile Engineer as may be agreed upon.
5.02	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
5.03	DECISION: The decision of the sole arbitrator will be final and binding on the parties to the present agreement and all other employees concerned.
5.04	LIMITATIONOF POWER: The sole arbitratorshall not be authorizedto make any decision inconsistentwith the provisionsof the agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any of this agreement.
•y
EXPENSES: The fees and expenses of the sole arbitrator will be paid on the basis of one half by the Company and one half by the Union.
ARTICLE6 - DISCHARGECASES
6.01	a) A claim by an employeewho has completed his probationary period that he
has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Vice President of Manufacturingor in his absence, the Personnel Manager of the Company within seven (7) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company and the first step of the Grievance Procedurewill be omitted in any such case.
The Company agrees to notifythe Unioninwriting of a discharge at the time of such discharge and if requestedwithin twenty four (24) hours thereafter, will hold an interview conducted by the Personnel Manager before the discharge is considered final. Prior to such interview, the Company will advisethe employee's Steward of the arrangement, and the Stewardwill be given the opportunity to be present at the interview.
In case of a discharge, the Company will advise the employee's available ' Steward or in hisabsence,the Chief Steward ora Union Representativewho will be given an opportunity of being present to discuss the circumstances that required disciplinary action.
6.02	Such special grievance may be settled under the Grievance and Arbitration Procedures by:
confirming the Company's action in dismissing the employee;
reinstatingthe employeewith full compensation for the time lost; or,
by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable and mutually agreed upon.
a)
b)
c)
ARTICLE 7 * STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
7.01 The Company agrees that there will be no lockout of employees and the Union agrees that there will be no strike, slow-down, sit-down, or other action which will interferewith work or production. If any such action takes place, the Union agrees to instruct it's members to carry out the provisions of this agreement and to return to work and perform their duties.
a
ARTICLE 8-SENIORITY
8.01 DEFINITION-Forthe purposesofthis agreement, seniority meansthe total length of continuous service accumulated with the Company by an employee, in accordancewith the conditions provided hereunder in Paragraph8.02.
8.02	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
An employee will be consideredon probationand will not be subject to the
a)	seniority provisions of the agreement until after he has completed four hundredandeighty (480) hours of work inthe BargainingUnitwithina period of six (6) consecutivecalendar months (nine (9) monthsfor employees on weekend shifts) excluding departmentalshutdowns from the six (6) or nine (9) month period, from the date of hire. Upon completion of such probationary period the employee's namewill be placed on the seniority list of his department, with seniority dating from his date of hire. The following is a list of departmentsfor seniority purposes.
1.	Yam Preparation
2.	Weave
3.	Dye and Bleach
4.	Sewing
5.	Shipping and Receiving
6.	Maintenance (Services& Tradesmen)
Transfer into the Bargaining Unit:
1.	Any employee, who has worked on an occupation covered by the Bargaining Unitandwho hasbeentransferredbeforeNovember4th, 1987, to an occupation not covered by the agreementwill be credited for seniority purposes with his total length of continuous service accumulated within the Bargaining Unitifheistransferred again to an occupation covered by the present agreement.
It is understood that said employeewill have the right to use one of the following options when so transferred:
Replace the least senior employee on the former occupation and shift that he held prior to his transfer outside the Bargaining Unit.
Replace the least senior employee on the said former occupation and on the schedule of his choice.
9
Replacethe least senior employee on the shift of his choice on any occupationhehasfulfilled satisfactorilypriorto histransfer outsidethe Bargaining Unit.
To be transferred on an open occupation or an occupation held by the least senior employee.
2.	Any employee, who works on an occupation covered by the Bargaining Unitand isgiven an opportunity after November4th, 1987 to attend educationalortraining courses or any employeetrainedfor a Non-Bargaining Unit occupation, will be credited for seniority purposeswith his total length of continuousservice, if he should be subsequently transferred into the Bargaining Unitwithin twelve (12) months of the commencement of said courses or training.
Prior to the commencement of said course or training the Company will inform the Union in writing with the name of the employee concerned as well as an estimated period of time of the duration (maximum of twelve (12) consecutive months) for said course or training.
3.	After November 4th, 1987, any employee who works on an occupation covered by the Bargaining Unitand who is subsequently transferred to an occupation not covered by this agreement will be credited for seniority purposes, with his total length of continuous service if he istransferred again intothe BargainingUnitwithin twelve (12) months.
4.	Inthe case where an employee is reinstated intothe Bargaining Unit as perthe provisionsof 8.02 b) 1,2 and 3, said employeewill remit to the Unionasum equaltothe amount of Unionduesforthe period so spent upto a maximumof24 monthsoutsidethe Bargaining Unit.
Said remittance will be in accordance with one of the following choices made by said employee before his transfer outside the Bargaining Unit:
_	By cash.
-	By doubling his weekly Uniondues.
-	By tripling hisweekly Uniondues.
I O
Employees who have the same starting date for seniority purposeswill be ranked as follows:
Employees hired priorto July 13th, 2002 with the same seniority date will be rankedfor seniority alphabetically by their last or family name when hired;
Employees hired after July 13th, 2002 with the same seniority date will be rankedfor seniority by a draw to be held after completion of their probation period in the presence of a Union Steward.
8.03	Time lost in excess cf nine (9) months in the case of layoffand in excess of twelve (12) months in the event of sickness or accidentwill not be counted in computing an employee's seniority; however, in cases covered by the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act, time lost during the period of compensationwill be counted.
The provisions of this paragraphdo notapplyto probationary employeeswhere time lost for any reason will not be counted in determining the completion of the probationary period.
8.04	LOSS OF SENIORITY - An employee shall lose all seniority and his employment shall be terminated if he:
a)	voluntarily quits the employ of the Company;
b)	is discharged for just cause and the discharge is not reversed through the Grievance Procedure;
c)	fails for no acceptable reason within seven (7) days pursuantto notification sent by registered mail by the Company to report to work following a layoff or to advise the Company of his intention to report to work pursuantto the said notification;
d)	has been laidofffor a period of time equivalent to the length of his seniority at the time hewas laid off upto a maximum of twenty-four (24) months,the whole subject to sub-paragraph (c) above;
e)	is absent due to sickness or an accident for more than twelve (12) months inthecaseof anemployeewith lessthanfive (5) years seniority and twenty-four (24) months in the case of an employee havingfive (5) years or more seniority. If an employee advisesthe Company at the end of the said twelve (12) or twenty-four (24) month period, as the case may be, and once every six (6) months thereafter of his intentionto return to work, his seniority will not be broken. These provisions do not apply in Worker's Compensation cases and seniority will not be broken during the period of compensation.
11
The Company and the Union recognize the importance of assiduity and timeliness, and the need for the Company to apply reasonable control over absences and tardiness in cases of abuse.
f)
Seniority rules are applied firstly to the employees of the department concerned before looking elsewhere in the plant. Employee's seniority while on lay off or recall from their original department will remain intheir original departmentforjob award purposefollowing a posting,for a period of one year in accordancewithArticle 8.16 e). Should it be knownthat the occupation or assignment will not reopen because of elimination or technological change, employee seniority will apply in the current (new) department.
8.06	DEFINITIONOFVACANCY: ForpurposesofthisArticle8, a vacancy resultseither from the normal turnover of personnel, such as retirement, resignation, death, promotion, dismissal, demotion for cause or transfer of employees to jobs not covered by this Bargaining Unit or from an increase in the number of employees required on an occupation. The above does not imply that particularjob vacancies mustnecessarilybe filled. However, should thejob remain in operation, it shall be filled in accordancewith the provisions of Article 8,07.
8.07	IN THE CASE OF JOB VACANCIES, THE FOLLOWING PROCEDURE WILL APPLY:
a)	The Companywill post thejob vacancy noticefor a period of seven (7) days on the departmental and central bulletin board and will remit a copy to the departmental steward. However,the Company is not required to post any job vacancy where duration of the vacancy does not exceed sixty (60) working days. A temporaryjob vacancy isthatwhich isdefined under Article 8.11 -TemporaryTransfers, subheadings"a"to"f'. The Companywill notify the Unionof any un-posted vacancy which exceeds sixty (60)working days.
b)	Employeeswho are interested in thejob vacancy will offer their candidacy by requesting a job bid form from their supervisor.
c)	If no employee inthe department concerned has offered his candidacy or if no candidates are qualified in the department, the Company will consider from other employees who have applied.
d)	In the choice of the employee to occupy the job vacancy, seniority shall prevail among employees who have offered their candidacy providing they are qualified to perform the occupation for which they are a candidate as outlined in Paragraphs.09.
12
1.	The Company will post acknowledgement notices for all candidates to any job vacancies. The name of the successful applicant will be posted on ajob award noticefor any job vacancy for a period of four (4) working days.
The Companywill advise the successfulapplicant of anyjob vacancy within one week from the expiry date of the job posting period.
The Companywill send a copy of the job posting and the award oHhe successful candidate to the local union.
2.	The Companywill place the successful applicant on the occupation within fifteen (15)working daysoftheendofthe posting periodexcept where such appointmentwoulddisrupt normal productionflowand/or needs and the requirements of quality.
If the Company cannot place the successful applicant on the occupation within thirty (30) working days of the awarding of the vacancy and this is due to the needs of productionflow and/or needs and.requirementsof quality, the employee will subsequently receive the higherof either:
a)	the contractualwage rate of thejob granted if it is unmeasured
or measured hourly and if it is a pieceworkjob, he will then receivethe objective rate of saidjob or;
the employee’s current hourly rate if it is unmeasured or ' measured hourly and if it is a piecework job, his ongoing piecework earnings.
This procedurewillapply to each and every posting.
3.	The employeeto bepromotedto an occupationoutsideof his present departmenthasthe optionto be allowed up to one (1) shift maximum to view the occupation afterwhich time his election must be madeto either accept or decline the new occupation.
It isagreed that the Company may temporarily fill thejob vacancy during the posting period without restriction.
The employees who have bid for thejob vacancy as described in sub-paragraph^) above are the only ones who may laterfile a grievance.
13
An employeewho has thus been granted an occupation at an equivalent or
h)	lower contractual wage ratedjobwill not be permitted to bid to his former occupation or an equivalent or lowercontractual rated job for any futurejob vacancy following completion of the training period plussix (6) months. The employeewho has been awarded the originaljob vacancy but who has not accessed this opening may bid to interimjob vacancies.
In any cases when an employee has been granted an occupation at an equivalent or lower contractual wage rate job, he will then receive the contractualwage rate of thejob he has been granted if it is unmeasuredor measured hourly, and if it is a piecework job, he will then receive the guaranteed rate of saidjob, or accordingto his performance.
i)	In exceptional cases where employees who have been promoted and who cannot perform during the training period, a demotion or transfer can be considered only by mutual agreement of both parties.
When the Company, nevertheless, wishes to demote or transfer an employee for reasons of ill health, the employee will be given preference according to his seniority if it is an occupation which he has previously fulfilled satisfactorily in the same department or if he has not previously fulfilled this occupation ,if he is qualifiedto do the work. This, however, does not preclude the right of the employeewho is demoted or transferred from lodging a grievance on the basis that his demotion or transfer was unjustified.
8.08 PREFERENCE OF ASSIGNMENT - In the case of preference of assignment requested by employees, the following will apply:
When a vacancy occurs on an occupation on a particular shift, a maximum of one (1) change in assignment will be permitted upon request of an employee working on the occupation and shift concerned on the basis of seniority.
The preference of assignment as described above will be granted to the employee currently working on the occupation and shift concerned prior to filling the job vacancy.
The parties agree that in no other circumstanceswillthere be a preference of assignment among the employees currently working on the same occupation.
14
8.09	1. The following factors will be considered in evaluating an employee’s skill,
competenceand ability relatedto the performanceof the work for which he is a candidate.
Physicalrequirementsof the occupationand physical qualification of the candidate.
Results of aptitude tests.
Successful participation in training courses for the occupation for which he is a candidate. These training courses may take the form of theoretical courses, on-the-job training in the department or in the Training Centre.
Licenses where required.
Forthejobs involvingthe handlingof acrew.such asteam leaderor responsibleperson, the Chief UnionStewardor Assistant Chief Union Steward will be included in the selection process.
To utilize an aptitude test as a factor of considerationto evaluate an employee, the Company must:
1.	Consider new experience since last test and allow an employee applying for a job to undertakethe same test as other candidates.
2.	Act the same as above in cases of courses followed by an employee in relationwith requirementsof posted occupation.
It is understoodthat some of these above-mentioned factors will have more relative importance than others depending on the occupation which is vacant.
2. Should the Company decide to give training courses or to cross-train its employees on various occupations, the employees within the department concerned who are chosen will be selected by seniority, according to the provisionsof Paragraph8,09. As much as it is feasible, the Company will consider seniority in the selection of instructor, should the choice not have been made by seniority, the Company will explain their decision.
8.10	PERMANENTTRANSFERS-A permanenttransferisa permanentassignmentof an employee by the Company to a job vacancy inanotheroccupationatthe same wage rate.
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
15
Permanenttransfers may be awarded as per Article 10.03 b) andc) and may apply to the duty to accommodate underthe Workplace Safety Insurance Board cases.
An employee will carry his seniority with him immediately upon being transferred permanentlyto a different department.
It is understood and agreed that an employee on the seniority list is not obliged to accept a permanenttransfer.
8.11 TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
A temporary transfer is a temporary assignment of an employee at the request of the Company to a temporaryjob vacancy in another occupation at a higherwage rate, at a lower wage rate or an equivalentwage rate.
Misunderstood that temporary transfers from theweekday scheduletotheweekend schedule and vice-versa shall be voluntary with the exception that the least senior employeeonthe occupationand schedule inquestion being requiredto accept said transfer when the only alternative of the Company is to lay off other employees.
Temporary transfers shall be effected for a maximum period of thirty (30) calendar days, except for one of the following reasons, inwhich case the given movements will not exceed twelve (12) months. It is agreed that following a three (3) month period, at the employee’s request, he will be returned to his original assignment providedhe is not the mostjuniorqualified and productioncircumstances allow this direction to be taken.
Temporary transfers will be offered by seniority to qualified employees when productioncircumstancesallowthisdirectionto betaken. Itds understood,the least seniorqualifiedemployeeinvolvedintheabovewill beobligedto acceptthetransfer when no qualified, more senior employee agrees to take the transfer.
to replace one or more employees who are taking their annual vacations;
to replaceanemployeeabsentasaresultcf an industrialaccidentor illness, or non-industrialaccident,or an employee absent on maternity leave;
to replace a transferred employee, who at the request of the Company is working for another branch of St. Lawrence Corporation, or for another company affiliated to or supplying materials or services to the Company;
to fill ajob because the Company has temporarily increased certain labour requirementsto meet a special situation.
a)
b)
c)
d)
16
It is understoodthat this paragraph does not imply that in cases of normal vacancies and normal conditions that Articles 8.06 and8.07 are notto be applied;
e)	to replace an employee who is receiving special training or preparationfor a supervisory or technical position, or to replace an employee transferred as a result of the transfer of another employeewho is receivingthe said special training or preparation;
f)	to replace an employee absent on a special approved leave.
g)	Any employeewho is temporarily transferred underthis article from the (7) seven day, (12) twelve hour schedule to the (5) five day,(8) eight hour schedulewill maintaintheir (75) seventy five cent per hour add-on for all hours worked during the Monday to Friday work week. For any work performed on Saturday or Sunday, the (75) seventy five cent add-on is excluded and the employee would receive the regular rate of pay at the applicable overtime rate.
The Company shall have the right to transfer employees on a temporary basis to fill temporary job vacancies as described in the preceding paragraph. Employees who are thus transferred will be remunerated according to the provisions of Paragraph 3.02.
The Company will not use a series of temporary appointments outside the job posting procedureto enable an employee to accumulate experience in order to place him in a preferential position in the event of a permanent vacancy.
8.12 SHIFTWORK
.	Ifthere ismorethan oneshift inoperation on any occupation,the employees
' will rotate every week unless there is a mutual agreement among the employee, the Company and the Union.'
The departmental seniority of an employee who is currently on the ' occupation in that department will govern preference of shifts when a vacancy occurs on that occupation.
8.13	LAYOFFS-LESS THAN ONE (1) COMPLETE SHIFT
Subjectto Paragraphs.14 hereunder, in the event that it becomes necessaryto reduce the number of employees on an occupation in a department for less than one (1) completeshift,the employeesonthe occupation and shift concernedwill be laid off in the reverse order of seniority accordingto the seniority list established in
17
Paragraphs. 19, It is understoodthat employeesso laid off will not havethe right to displace other employees on other shifts or other occupations.
8.14
LAYOFFS- ONE
SHIFT TO FIVE (5) COMPLETE SHIFTS
Inthe event that it becomes necessary to reducethe number of employeeson an occupation in a departmentfor one (1) complete shift to five (5) complete shifts for weekday employees or one(1) to three (3) completeshiftsforweekend employees, or seven (7) day twelve (12) hour shift employees, the employeesonthe occupation with the least seniority according to the seniority listwill be subject to a layoff. The employeesubject to a layoffwill havethe rightto replacethe mostjunior employee on an occupation in his department which he had previouslyfulfilled satisfactorily or on an equivalent or lower ratedoccupation in his department providedthat he is qualified to perform the work.
Notwithstandingany cf the foregoing, any employee qualified under8.09 who is affected by a layoff for an aggregate of more than five (5) working days for the weekday employees or more than three (3) working days for weekend employees or seven (7) day twelve (12) hour shift employees within a six month period may avail themselves firstly of the provisions of Article 8.14 and secondly of the provisionsofArticle8.15 insofaras being able to bumpoutsidetheemployeesown department. Any employee who avails themselves of the provisions of these articlesmustbefullyqualifiedto perform immediately(ninetypercentperformance) on the occupationto which they have exercised their rights. These periodswill run
from January 1 to June30 and July Ito December31.
8.15 LAYOFFS- MORE THAN FIVE (5) COMPLETE SHIFTS
Inthe event that it becomes necessary to reducethe number of employees on an occupation in a department for more than five (5) complete shifts, for weekday employees or morethan three (3) complete shifts for weekend employees or more than three (3) complete shifts for seven (7) day twelve (12) hour shift employees, the employee on the occupationwith the least seniority according to the seniority list established in Paragraph 8.19 will besubjectto layoff. The employeesubject to said layoff has three options to replace:
the mostjunior employee on an occupationwhich he has previouslyfulfilled satisfactorily or;
6) a probationaryemployee.
Under Option B), the employee receives training and the occupation now becomes his regularoccupationatwhich he must remain untilfully qualified. Should the employee not select Options A) or 6), he may;
18
replace the most junior employee on any occupation provided they can perform the job satisfactorily within a maximum delay of five (5)days for weekday employees or four (4) days for employees on weekend shifts or seven (7) day operation. With Option C), if required, training will be given during the five (5) or four (4) day period.
This last disposition can only be invoked once by an employee concerned on the occasion of each layoff and will only be applied to employees with six (6) months seniority or more.
An employeewho is laidoff/must indicatehisintentionsinregardstoexercisinghis seniority rightswithin five (5) working days.
In cases where occupations and/or complete assignments are permanently eliminated due to a reduction of machinery or technological change, this last disposition which will be extended to thirty-five (35)working days, can only be invokedonce by an employee concerned on the occasion of each layoff and will be applied to employeeswho have at least completedtheir probationary period. The employeewho is subsequentlydisplaceddue to a moresenioremployeeexercising their rights underthis paragraph, will be able to use this last disposition which for subsequent employeeswill also be extendedto thirty-five (35)working days.
An employeewho transfers to another department as a result of Article 8.15 will havehis/her seniority transferred effective immediately when the transfer occurs. This does not eliminate the provisions of Article 8,16 (d).
N.B. Itisunderstoodthat provisions of Article8.13,8.14, and8.15 are to beapplied withinthe employees regularschedulebeforebeingappliedintothe other schedule.
8,16 RECALLS TO WORK
The following procedureswill apply in recallingemployees to work following a layoff: "Laid off' being defined as not working on any occupation in the plant.
A)	Temporary Recalls:
A temporary recall shall be for a maximum of sixty (60) working days or longer in cases of maternity or parental leave, or short term disability leave.
Laid off employees will be recalledto work in their order of seniority in their respectivedepartments and on the posted occupationwhich they held prior to the layoff.
19
However, should such employees not be available, then laid off employees will be recalled to work in the order of seniority in their respective departments, provided that they previously fulfilled the occupation satisfactorily and provided that they meetthe provisionsof Article 8.09.
Further,should such employees not be available,then laid off employeeswill be recalledto work inthe order of seniority from other departments provided that they previouslyfulfilled the occupation satisfactorily, and providedthat they meetthe provisionsof Article 8.09.
B)	Permanent Recalls
Laid off employeeswill be recalledto work inthe order of seniority in their respectivedepartmentson an occupationwhichthey havepreviouslyfulfilled satisfactorily and providedthat they meetthe provisions of Article 8.09.
However,should such employees not be available, then laid off employees will be recalled to work in the order of seniority in their respective departments, providedthat they meetthe provisionsof Article 8.09.
Further,should suchemployees not be available,then laidoff employeeswill be recalled to work in the order of seniority from layoffs from other departments provided that they previously fulfilled the occupation satisfactorily, and providedthat they meetthe provisionsof Article 8.09.
Further,should such employees not beavailable,then laid off employeeswill be recalled to work in the order of seniority from layoffs from other departments provided they meetthe provisions of Article 8.09.
However, if an employee is recalledto a new department, his seniority will betransferred effective immediately when thetransfer occurs. Thisdoes not eliminatethe provisionsof Article 8.16 d).
New employees will not be hired until all laid off employees have been so recalled.
However, it is understoodthat employeeswill not be obliged to accept recall to awork schedule or departmentdifferentthan the one they worked priorto their layoffexcept inthe case that the only alternativefor the Company isto hire new employees,then it is understoodthat thejunior employee involved in the above provisions,will be obliged to come back to work.
D)	It is understoodthat, when an occupation or shift is again formed, the original
employees on this shift or occupation who may have been transferred or demotedto another occupation and while displaced to anotherjob, have not
20
8.17
8.18
8.19
been awarded a new occupation as a result of Article 8.07, will returnto the reorganized shift or occupation providedthatthis happenswithina period of one ^ ly>ar following their transfer or demotion except where such transfer would disrupt normal production flow and/or needs of the requirements of quality, an employee in this situation will not be subject to the one year provision.
It is understood that the Company will not use these delays to allow employeesontemporarytransfersto accumulatepreferentialpositiononthe reformed shift.
The employee originally on the shift and the occupation must be transferred back on his shift in the shortest possible delay. After the application of this paragraph, any unfilled occupations on the reformed shift are considered "vacancies"as defined in Paragraphs.06.
It is understood that when an employee has worked on an occupation for E' more than ^lo>e year due to a bump under Article 8.15, that occupation shall become his posted occupation.
NOTICE OF CHANGE OF ADDRESS - It is the duty of employees to notify the Company promptly of any change of address. If an employee fails to do this, the Company will not be responsiblefor failure of a notice to reach such employees.
COMPENSATION- If it is established that the seniority rights of an employee have not been respected, the Sole Arbitrator will have the right to determine compensationto be paid by the Company, if any, up to the amount of earnings lost and change the seniority date of the employee if necessary.
SENIORITY LIST
.	A list of seniority standings will be posted in each department, showing the
a'	names of each employee in that department together with his length of
continuous service with the plant in accordancewith Paragraph8,01. This list will be revisedevery six (6) months. Copies of these posted lists shall be forwarded without delay Whe Union, and a copy remitted to Departmental Stewards and other plantCnion Officers. After such posting, each such list shall becomefinal with respectto the employees designatedtherein, except as to any employee who disputes, under the Grievance Procedure, the accuracy of his seniority date or the seniority date of any other employee of his department designated therein, within thirty (30) working days after the list is posted. In any event, such grievance cannot dispute the accuracy of any previousfinal list.
21
The accuracy of the seniority lists may be subject to revision at any time
b)	when such inaccuracy occurs as a result of typographical error.
The date of postingwill be indicated on the seniority list.
c)
8.20	OCCUPATIONSNOTCOVEREDBYAGREEMENT-Appointmentsto occupations not covered by this agreement shall not be subject to the terms of this Article 8.
8.21	POSTING FOR FUTURE OPENINGS - When the possibility <f a permanent vacancy is anticipatedon an occupation inthe BargainingUnitfor reasonssuch as attrition, when training is necessary in advance becauseof the length of the training periodorfor any other reasonmutuallyagreedto bythe parties,future openingswill be posted as an occupation without assignment and shift. The posting and selectionwill be done according to the provisionsof Article 8.07 and 8.09,
When the training is completed, the employee will return to his or her former occupation. It is also understood that when such training is fully completed, said accumulatedexperience is to be taken into consideration inthe event of any future layoffs.
When the occupationfor which the employeewas trained becomes open, it will be postedto allow preferenceofassignment and shift only among employeescurrently on the occupation. Then the employee that was trained will be requiredto take the opening provided the employee has not, subsequentto the training period, been awarded a job posting to an occupationthat is a promotion over the future needs posting to which hewas trained.
If more than one employeewas trained in advance, seniority shall prevailwith the least senior employee being required to accept the opening.
8.22	PERMANENTVACANCY WITH POSSIBILITY OF CANCELLATION
When the possibility cf a permanent vacancy is anticipatedon an occupation inthe BargainingUnitfor reasonssuch as: an employee having decided to take an early retirement,or inthe case of serious illness or injury or for any other reason agreed betweenthe parties offering a reasonabledoubt cf a permanentvacancy. Such vacancy will be submitted to the posting procedure outlined in 8.07, with the particularitythat shouldthe employee havingvacatedthe occupation returntowork within a periodof twenty four (24) months, employees being promotedshall return to the job they occupied before being promotedon account cf this posting. Should the employee returnto work after a period cf twenty four (24) months, employees having been promotedshall be permanently confirmed onthejob. The employee having vacated the occupation and attempting to return to work may use his seniorityto displace as perArticle8.15, underwhich Option C will beextendedto
22
thirty five (35)working days. Reasonsjustifying such a postingwill be specified on the notice.
ARTICLE 9- PRODUCTIVITY
9.01 a)	During the course of the present agreement, all changes concerning tasks,
work assignments piece-work rates or changes in the regular duties of an hourlypaidoccupationor changes from an hourly ratedoccupationto piecework rated occupation, or vice versa and the establishment of new rates, therefore shall be submitted by the Company to the Union.
b) The Plant Manager, upon request, at any time afterthe commencementof ' change referredto in Paragraphs 9,02, 9,03 and 9.04, or at any time after a written requestfor a revision of element time values has been submitted underParagraph9.05, and untilsuchtime as the change is accepted or the written requestfor revision is settled, or a decision of the Sole Arbitrator is rendered, shall grant the Union permissionto delegate a representativeto observe the effects of the said change and/or to carry out chronometrical tests himselfforthe purposeof verification providedthe said representative does not hinderthe'proper functioning of the department.
9.02	Ifa change contemplatedby the Company concerninga piecework occupation has to do with the revision of a measured work element or the addition of measured work element not already established or the complete elimination of a measured work element, the Company must at least one (1) working week prior to the applicationof that change, advise the Union in writing of the nature of the change and meetthe employeesconcerned inthe same timeframe to explain the changes and the reasons therefore.
Ifthe change applies to a measuredpiecework occupationand affects the existing standardtime value by twenty percent (20%) or more, a periodof adaptationwill be applied.
The periodof adaptationwill have a maximum duration of four (4) weeks. During this period,theemployeesconcernedwillwork underthe newconditions. Forwage payment purposes, the difference between the preceding and new standard time values will be applied progressively in five (5) equal weekly increments: one increment at the beginningof each adaptationweek, and one last incrementat the beginningof the fifth week. At the conclusion of the period of adaptation, the full revisedstandard time value will be in effect for wage payment purposes.
When the change has been put intoeffectby the Company, and the Uniondoes not agree with such change, a reviewwill be made by a representativeof the plant's Industrial Engineering Department and the representative of the Union. Such review will include an inspection of thejob specification and summary data which
23
formed the basis for the change. If such review does not settle the grievance, the Union may refer the said change to the Sole Arbitrator mentioned below for his decision.
Only the work elements changed and calculations affected by the change will be subject to review by the Sole Arbitrator. If no request is made in writing by the Unionto submit such change to the Sole Arbitrator within forty-five (45) days after the date it was put into effect, the change shall be deemed to be accepted.
9.03	Ifa changecontemplatedbythe Company concerningapiece work occupationhas to do with a revision of a measuredwork element or the addition of a measured work element, or the completeeliminationof a measuredwork element becauseof the installationofdifferent machinery, or ifan hourly or pieceworkelement because of the installationof different machinery or if a non-measuredhourly occupation is to be placed by the Company on measured piecework, or if a new occupation is introduced, the Company must, at least two (2) working weeks prior to the application of such change, advisethe Union inwriting of the nature of the change. On the date that such change takes place, it will be considered as under a trial period, the conditions of which are defined in Paragraph9.Q6 and the following paragraphs.
9.04	All changes made by the Company concerning piecework occupationsotherthan those referredto inParagraphs9.02 and 9.03 are to be settled, ifgrievancesarise, by the following procedure:
Step One:
A review of the grievance isto be made by an IndustrialEngineeringrepresentative of the Company and a representativeof the Union.
Such review will include an inspection of the job specification and test data which form the basis for the change. The representativeof the Union may also, by arrangementwiththe IndustrialEngineeringrepresentativeof the Company, visitthe premiseswherethe grievance arose. Noticeofthe nature of such changewill be given to the Union in writing.
If no grievance is made as a result of any changes referred to in this paragraph within twenty (20) working daysafter the change is to be put into effect, the change shall be deemed to be accepted.
9.04	Step Two:
Ifthe review provided in Step One above does not provide an immediatesolution to the grievance,joint testswill be made by an IndustrialEngineeringrepresentative
24
of the Company and a representative of the Union to settle the grievance on the change concerned.
Anyjoint tests shall be of the same natureandtothe same extent as the tests upon which the change was originally based. The extent of the joint test called for may be varied by the parties by mutual agreement.
Ifthe results of thejoint tests made by the Company and the Union are such as not to affect the standard time value by plus or minus4% or less, no change is to be made in the standard time value.
Ifthe results of the said joint tests affect the standard time value by greater than plus or minus4%, the standard time value will be so revised and put into effect.
Ifthe results of the saidjoint tests callfor an increaseinthe standard time value by greater than 4%, retroactivity is to be paid back to the date of the change.
If the parties, after having completed the joint tests in this Step Two, and after having studied their findings cannot agree on the results of the said joint tests, the Union may refer the said change to the Sole Arbitrator mentioned below.
Step Three:
The Sole Arbitrator shall reviewthe change made by the Company and shall make tests of the same natureand to the same extent as the tests uponwhich the change was originally based.
Ifthe results of the tests made by the Sole Arbitrator are such as not to affect the standard time value by plus or minus4% or less, no change is to be made in the standard time value.
Ifthe results of the test made by the Sole Arbitrator affect the standard time value bygreaterthanplusorminus4%, the standardtimevalue will beso revised and put into effect.
Ifthe results of the test made by the Sole Arbitrator call for an increase in the standard time value by greaterthan4%, retroactivity is to be paid backto the date of the change.
Itisrecognizedthat due to their nature, changes referredto inthis Paragraph9.04 may be frequent and continuing revisions of such changes to reflect modifications in conditions may be calledfor at any time.
25
9.05 a)
b)
If no change is introducedbythe Company, but if inthe opinion of the Union, a change has occurred of the type covered in Paragraph9.04, in case of an unsettled complaint, a grievance may besubmittedfor settlement, including arbitration if necessary, in accordancewith the terms cf Paragraph9.04.
If no change is introduced by the Company of the type covered in Paragraphs9.02 and9.03, but if inthe opinion of the Unionatime of one or severalelementsofastandardtimevaluerequiresmodification,the following procedurewill apply.
I _ When one or more element times of a standard time valuewhich have not been previously submittedto the Sole Arbitrator have been i n effect and a period of one (1 )year has elapsed from the date of the last acceptance by the Union, it may request a revision in the said standard time value. Ifone or moreelementtimes of a standardtime value have been arbitrated,this will not precludethe balance of the element times of the said standard time value not arbitrated,from the application of this paragraph. If one or more element times of a standard time value have been previously submitted to the Sole Arbitrator, but if in the opinion of the Union a change has ,occurred, which had not been covered by the decision of the SoleArbitrator (or submitted as a change by the Company) and which in their opinion affectsthe standard timevalue such contentionmay be submitted by the Unionto the Sole Arbitrator for. his decision. In such a case, the burden of proof falls on the Union.
2.	Within forty-five (45) days from the written request of the Unionfor a revision of element time values, both parties will meet to attempt to finally settle the request. Failing a mutually satisfactory settlement, the requestfor revision
By the Union may be referred to arbitration according to the dispositions of Paragraph9.1 I .When such a request is .madefor arbitration,then allthe elementtimes for a standardtime value except such element times as have been previously arbitrated shall be referredto the Sole Arbitrator for decision.
If, within the said delay cf forty-five (45) days, the Union does not submit it's request for revision to arbitration, the said request for revisionwill be deemed to have been abandoned.
3.	Followinga requestfor arbitration made by the Union, accordingto Paragraph-!, if the Arbitratorf inds adifferencefrom the standardtime value in effect of 4% or more, then and only then, shall the Arbitrator decide that a change inthe standard time value be put into effect in accordance with his observations. If the results of the review are
26
made by the Arbitrator, callfor an increase inthe standard time value by greater than 4%, retroactivity is to be paid back to the date of the Union's requestfor revision.
4.	For all requestsfor revisionswhich are raised during the first three (3) months following the signature of the Collective LabourAgreement, the retroactivity, if any, will be limited to a four (4) week period following the date the requestfor revisionswas submitted.
9.06	Followingthedatethatthe changes referredto inParagraph9,03 abovetake place, atrial period of twenty (20) working days will follow.
9.07	During the trial period of twenty (20) working days, the employees concerned will work underthe new conditions and be paid accordingto the new rate and during the said twenty (20) working days, their average hourly earnings will not be lower than their straight time average hourly earnings during the last four (4) weeks while the employees were working on piecework during the previous six (6) months. In no case shallthis guarantee of average hourly earnings extend beyondthe said twenty (20) working days.
9.08	At any time during the trial period the Company and the Unionwill meet to review the results obtained during the trial period and will try to agree on the change.
9.09	Prior to the end of the sixth (6th) week following the completion of the trial period, ifthere is no agreementon the change, the Unionmustnotifythe Company andthe Sole Arbitrator (referredto in Paragraph 9.11 hereafter) thereof in writing by registeredmailandthe changewill be referredto the SoleArbitratorfor hisdecision. The parties may referthe changetothe SoleArbitratorpriorto the completion of the trial period by mutualconsent. If such a notice is not sent duringthe said trial period or prior to the end of the sixth (6th) week following the completion of the trial period by the Union, and if no notice is sent by the Company within the same period of it's intention to abandonthe proposed change, the said change will be considered as final and accepted by both parties.
9.10	In cases where the change is submitted to the Sole Arbitrator, the Sole Arbitrator must render his decision within eight (8) additionalworking weeks from the date a changewas submittedto him. Inany event, the change will remain inforce untilthe final decision of the Sole Arbitrator has been rendered.
9.11	The Sole Arbitrator for the purpose of this article and the durationof this agreement will be an Industrial Engineerto be chosen by mutual agreement of the parties.
9.12	The SoleArbitrator must, beforestarting each arbitration, make a sworn declaration stating that he has no pecuniary interest inthe question, that he is not personally associated with, or interested in, a firm orcompanythatmanufacturestextiles, and
27
that he is not by reason of his business affairs, or any other circumstances influenced or prejudiced in favour of either employees or employers.
9.13	Eachofthe parties to this agreementwill bear its own expenses of arbitration. The fees and expenses of the SoleArbitratorwill be paidforonthe basisofone half by the Company and one half by the Union.
9.14	a) All grievances arising out of Articles 9 and 10 shall be submittedto the Sole
Arbitratorfor decision. In any case, the decision of the Sole Arbitrator must bewithintheframeworkoftheCompany'swork measurementplanandwage payment methods, and further, the Sole Arbitrator shall not have the power to amend, alter, or modify the terms of this agreement.
Forthe purposes of Articles 9 and 10 of the Collective Labour Agreement, b)	one of the following firms will act as arbitrator as called upon:
Woods Gordon & Co.-Charron, Bourgetel et Ass. Enrg.-Leatham Simpson.
9.15	The decision of the Sole Arbitrator will be final and binding on the Union and the Company, and all employees or groups concerned. In so far as wages are concerned,the decisionwill be retroactivetothe commencementofthe trial period should the Sole Arbitrator so decide, and the amount of retroactiveadjustments, if any, shall be determined by the said Sole Arbitrator.
9.16	If, at any time during the trial period, the Company decides to abandon the proposed change, an adjustment of wages must be made in such a manner as to ensure that for the time during which the trial period has been in force, average hourlyearningsfor each employee immediately concerned are equivalentto 100% of the average hourly earningsofthat employeeduringthe last four (4)weeks while the employeewas working on piecework during the previous six (6) months.
9.17	When the Company advises the Unionof a change in task under Paragraph9.03, it will give to the Union all pertinent information and all necessary explanations concerning such change or new occupation.
9.18	Upon request, the Company will, at the commencement of a trial period, make available to a designated representative of the Union for examination, the job specification data referringto the establishmentof the task which has been placed on such trial period. It is understoodand agreed that suchjob specification data is a confidential company document, is to be returned to the company within a reasonable delay, and is not to be retained beyond the conclusion of such trial period.
28
9.19	Upon request, the Company will, at the commencementcf a trial period, supply in writing to the Union, the average hourly earnings of each employee placed under such trial periodduring the last four (4) weeks while the employee was working on piece work during the previous six (6) months. The Unionwill also be provided in writing, if they so request, with the average hourly weekly earnings of said employees during such trial period.
9.20	Grievances arising from changes in measured or unmeasured hourly paid occupations or a regularassigned increase inthe scheduled volume ofwork of such an hourly paid occupation may also be submittedto the SoleArbitrator for decision within forty five (45) days following the occurrenceof the circumstances giving rise to the grievance or knowledge of same, as the case may be. Inthis case, however, the SoleArbitrator shall determine whether or not the changed occupation or a regularly assigned increaseinthe scheduled volume ofwork of such an hourly paid occupation requires more than a normal daily work performance. The Sole Arbitrator shall decide the content cf a normal daily work performance and the Companywillmodifythe contentofthe occupationaccordingly. A normaldailywork performance may be defined as the average amount ofwork a qualified employee working at normal pace (as defined in Article IO), under standard conditions, can produce over a day.
9.21	It is understoodthat all changes which affect the standard time value will be taken into account in the standard time value for the occupation.
9.22	Changes in piecework rates shall be handled in accordancewiththe provisions of this article where applicable.
ARTICLE I O -WAGE PAYMENTMETHODS
10.01	MEASUREDDIRECT OCCUPATIONS
.	Measureddirectoccupationsareto be paid on the basis cf piecework rates,
expressed in dollars (or cents) per production or machine unit, derived from work measurement and based on "objective hourly rates", appearing on the rate listsfor piecework occupations, annexedto this agreement, except the employees under probationary period (Paragraph 8.02 of the Collective Agreement).
.. Measurement is based on the execution of each element of work at a '	reference pace underusual and normaloperation conditions. The reference
pace is defined as "walking three miles per hour over smooth, levelground without load".
29
An employee on measuredwork with a one hundred percent (100%) work assignment, includingallowancesfor restand personalneeds(varyingfrom 10% to 25% ofworktime), normally exceeds the reference pace described above by 25%.
The piecework rates are calculated so that a one hundred percent (100%) work assignmentwillgive an employeethe opportunityto earn the objective rate.
For any delay or time loss beyond his control, and for which he is not responsible, the frequency and length of which are not foreseeable (and which have not been taken into account in the machine efficiency calculations), the measured direct employee is paid the objective rate.
He reportsthese delays and time losseswithout delay and has them signed and approved by his Department Foreman, or his assistant. Such are, for example:	delays resulting from waiting for work, breakdown and
maintenance of machinery, power failure, etc.
The total piecework earnings will be calculated weekly for each employee on a measured direct occupation, and he is guaranteed that his average hourly earnings for the week will not be lower than ninety percent (90%) of the objective rate for his occupation.
Eachemployeewillbeinformedof his guaranteed rate. Eachweek, a sheet showing the following informationfor the precedingweek will be posted in the department:
_	Occupation and employee's name
.	Objective rate
Hoursworked
-	Average hourly piecework earnings
_ Total earnings (excluding shift and overtime premiums)
-	Percent pay performance^ relationto objective rate)
-	Paymentsfor delays (included in the total earnings amount)
f) Some occupations previously paid as measureddirect occupations may be reclassified by the Company as measured indirect occupations, and paid accordingto provisions in Paragraph10.02.
Also, some occupations previously paid as measured indirect or as unmeasuredoccupationsmaybereclassifiedbythe Company as measured direct occupations, and paid accordingto 10.01 a) above.
30
In either case, the Company will submit to the Union, the data pertinent to such changes at least two weeks prior to the change, and will meetwith the Union Representativeson request to explain the change.
10.02	MEASURED INDIRECT OCCUPATIONS
Measured indirect occupations are to be paid hourly rates appearing on the rate listsfor measured hourly paid occupations annexed to this agreement, except the employees under probationary period (Paragraph 8.02 of the Collective Agreement), and except otherwise provided in Paragraph 10.03 below.
The occupations mentioned in paragraph 10.01 F) above, reclassifiedfrom measured direct to measured indirect, are also to be paid on this same basis.
Some previously unmeasured occupations, which may be judged measurable by the Company, are also to be paid on this same basis when they have been measured.
The employees on measured indirect occupations are to be given around one hundred percent (100%)work assignmentsas described in preceding Paragraph 0.01 b).
10.03	WORK ASSIGNMENT
. Experiencedemployees on measured occupations, director indirectshallbe a' given around one hundred percent (100%)work assignments, as defined in the preceding Paragraph 10.01 b).
It is understood that, in the case of employees on measured direct occupations and piecework payment,there is noobligation on the Company to offer such a work assignment, when the assignment is not available or when the employee is not capableorwillingof handlingsuch an assignment.
An individual employee with a physical handicap may request a work assignment lower than one hundred percent (100%) on a measured occupation. The Company will consider each such request individually.
If the request is reasonable and the employee is on a measured direct occupation, hewill begivenawork assignment between60% and 100%, as near as possibleto his requestand on his regularoccupation if practical, and hewill be paid his piece-work earnings. Ifthe employee is on a measured indirect occupation, and his request is reasonable, hewill be given a work assignmentbetween80% andl00% as nearas possibleto his requestand
31
on his regular occupation, and if practical, and he will be paid according to his assignment.
At certain processes, due to the number of productive units, isolation of equipment, etc., it may be impossibleor impracticalto implementa reduced work assignment of an employee on such a process without reducing the volume of production to the next process. Also an employee may not be capable of handling a work assignment between 90% and 100% on a measured direct occupation. Insuch cases, anoccupationaltransferforthe employeewill be considered in line with Article 8.10 (Permanenttransfers).
Such requests for a reduction in work assignments are limited to one per year for each employee and to one per occupation per month.
|c)	In the case of an employee on a measured occupation, direct or indirect,
who in the opinion of the Company, is notcapableorwilling of handlinga 100% work assignment,the sameconditionsas inParagraph10.03 b) above for a reducedassignmentortransferwill apply. However, before proceeding in this manner,the Companywill advise the Union,giving the reasonsforthe contemplated change.
d) When an employee on a measured direct occupation,who inthe opinion of the Company iscontinuallyincapableofproducingatthe presentguaranteed rateof90%, hisguaranteed ratewillthen become80% of the objective rate of his occupation.
However, before proceeding in this manner, the Company will advise the Union giving the reasons for such change.
Such case will be individually reviewed every six (6) months following the date of change.
10.04	MEASURED TIME VALUES
The measured time value is expressed in minutes and is the time required to perform an operation at a pace and with allowancesfor rest and personal needsas defined in paragraph10.01 b) under standard conditions.
The measuredtime values will notbechangedexceptifa change inthe conditions result in an increase or a decrease in the work content, or if inthe opinion cf both parties an error has been made that would require an adjustment.
Checks are made to make sure that conditions are maintained in conformity with those used to calculate a measured time value.
32
10.05	INFORMATION
Acopy ofthejob specification inforce will be made available inthe department and a copy of such will be given to the local Chief Steward.' If the Company makes a change concerning an occupation, the job specification will be also, made available	_
inthe department and a copy of such will be given to the bcalUruofi Presided. _ (?L?t
The method of calculation of wage payment may be checked by the employee personally or by his representative.
ARTICLE 11 - HOURSOF WORK AND OVERTIME
11.01	a)	Five (5) Days Schedule
The normal work week shall be five (5) days of eight (8) hours continuous operation as per the following:
a)	1st Shift: 23h00 Sunday to 07h00 Friday
b)	2nd Shift: 15h00 Monday to 23h00 Friday
c)	3rd Shift: 07hd0 Mondayto 15h00 Friday
b)	Weekend Schedule
The normalwork week shall betwo (2) days of twelve (12) hours continuous operation as per the following:
a)	4th Shift:	23h00 Fridayto 11 hOO Saturday
23h00 Saturdayto 11 hOO Sunday
b)	5th Shift:	11 hOO to 23h00 Saturdays Sunday
c)	Stationary Engineers
Stationary Engineerswill work the following:
06h00 to 18h00 - Overthe shift cycle 18h00 to 06h00 - Overthe shift cycle
^	Seven Day Schedule (Four(4) Shifts)
19h00 to 07h00 - Overthe shift cycle 07h00 to 19h00 - Overthe shift cycle
33
The working hours may be modified in order to comply with special requirements. It is understoodthat during the term of this agreement any changes under this paragraph will be made only after agreement with the Union.
It is understood, however,that nothing inthis agreement shall be construed or interpretedto be a guarantee by the Company of a specified numbercf hours of work or shifts per day or days of weekend as well as providing annual, weekly or daily guaranteedwages.
This clause will not preclude the Company from having employees work longer voluntary hours than specified above, provided that the overtime provision is observed.
e)	Maintenance Department
Five(5) Day Schedule-The normalworkweek shall befive (5) days of eight (8) hours operation as perthe following 08h00 Mondayto 16h00 Friday.
11.02	a),	Work performed on Saturday and Sunday shall be paid at a rate of time and
one half the employee's regular rate.
..	Employees working under the weekend shift operation schedulewill get a
'	premium of fifty percent(50%)for Saturday and Sunday.
Ifthe Companydecidestowork onaseven day operation,the Saturday and Sunday premiumwill be at 50% for all employees.
All employees covered by the terms of this agreementshall beentitledfor all hoursworked inexcess of the regulardaily hours specified in Article II to a premiumof50% ofeithertheirregularrateortheiraveragehourlypiece-work or wage incentive plan earnings, as the case may be. It is understoodthat no pyramiding of premiums will apply.
Overtimeforthe Saturday or Sunday isfifty percent(50%) premiumover and above weekend premiums after 8 or 12 hours, as the case may be.
Any weekend shifts employees who work in excess of eight (8) continuous hours on any regularday, Mondayto Friday,will be paid time and one half for the hours above eight (8). For any weekend shifts employees who work morethan forty (40) hours perweek, includingtheir regularweekend hours will be paid time and one half for hours worked above forty (40) hours. It is understoodthat hours for which a premium of fifty percent (50%) is paid for all hours above regulardaily hourswill not be included as part of the above forty (40) hours total.
34
Except employees working under seven (7) day operation schedule or weekend operation schedule, it is understood that Sunday work will be voluntary.
g)
Employeesworking inthe Weave Room, and Greige Inspectionwill operate on a seven (7) day, four (4) shift schedule, working twelve (12) hour shifts.
The employee’s regular rate will apply for all regular daily hoursworked.
There will be a fifty percent (50%) premium paidfor all hours not scheduled.
Therewillalsobeafifty percent (50%) premium paidfor hoursworked above the forty-four (44) per week. It isunderstoodthat hoursforwhich a premium of fifty percent (50%) is paidfor all hours above regulardaily hours will not be included as part of the above forty-four (44) hours total.
All employees on this schedule prior to January 5, 1992 in one of these working areas will receive a seventy-five cents (75) add-on for all hours worked. Thiswill remain in effectfor all present employees who remainon this schedule in one of these departments.
New employees hired after January fifth (5th), seventy-five cents (75) add-on.
Overtime Hours
1992, will not receive this
h)
Overtime hours will be voluntary on the (7) day schedule. (Subject to renegotiation if problems arise.)
OVERTIME RIGHTS ON TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
When an employee is transferred from Job " Ato Job “B”, his/her rightto overtime remainson Job “A”untilhe/she has been on Job“B" for morethan eight (8) continuous hours, in which case, his/her overtime rights cease on Job " Aand start on Job "B".
11.03 a)
b)
Work performed by Stationary Engineers and Watch Keepers on Saturday and Sunday shall be paid at a rate of time and one half the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay.
Overtime performed on Saturday and Sunday will be at fifty percent (50%) premium over Saturday premium and fifty percent (50%) over Sunday premium after 8 or 12 hours, as the case may be.
35
11.04 Hours of work for which an employee receives premium compensation underthis Article or Schedule II, plant holidays shall not be counted as partofthe normalwork week and also as hoursfor which a premium of time and one half or double time is paid.
1	105 OVERTIMEWORK
1a)	Any employee may refuse to work overtime provided he hasfound a suitable
replacement, who is qualified to perform the work and notifies his Department Supervisor in advance.
b) BetweenMay Istand Labour Day, any work performed after 23h00 Friday, shall bevoluntary, exceptfor Stationary Engineers,weekend shift and seven (7) day schedule employees. The employeeswho avail themselves of the provisions of this Paragraphwilladvisetheir supervisorforty eight (48) hours in advance. This forty eight (48) hour notice will only be required if the Company hasadvisedthe employeespreviouslythat itintendsto operateon weekend work, otherwise the said noticewill not be required.
During the weeks of Thanksgiving and Good Friday, any work performed after23h00 Fridaywill bevoluntary as perthe above paragraph.
A permanent list, indicatingthe namesofemployeeswillingto performwork during the voluntary weekend period will be kept in each department by Management. Such list will indicate the preference of the employees. An employee may have his name inscribed or deleted from said list the last Friday of every month.
Otherthanthe cases provided for above, the reasonsthat would excuse an employeefrom working during regularhourswould excuse himfrom working overtime.
c)	Noemployee shall be requiredtowork in excess of eight (8) hours overtime in one ( I) week.
d)	1. Five (5) Days Schedule* Overtime
When overtime is necessary on this schedule it will be offered as follows. This does not mean every absence will require overtime to be used.
First 4 Hours:
First:	ask outgoing shift in department on the occupation.
Second: ask outgoing shift in department qualified by seniority.
36
Second4 Hours:
First:	ask incoming shift in department on the occupation.
Second: ask incoming shift in department qualified by seniority.
Third:	Transferfrom within the shift at Management’sdiscretion.
If overtime is needed, the overtime is now on the occupationwhere the employee has beentransferredfrom and is to be filled by starting the above procedure over again.
Fourth: Ask the departmentweekend employees by seniority and occupation, should there be no volunteers, by seniorityto qualified employees. Ifthe Company is not able to fill the full 8 hours by the above, the weekender may be usedfor the full 8 hours.
Itisunderstoodthat any grievancearisingunderthe THIRD step of this procedurewould be invalidated if there is less than one (1) hour's notice of an absence priorto the shift start-up.
2.	OVERTIME
Mandator Period Saturdays-
Scheduled by shift and occupation by seniority
Sundays-
First:	Offer by occupation and seniority
Second:	Offer by qualified and seniority
Period
Saturdays-
First:	Offer by shift by occupation, by seniority
Second:	Offer by shift, by qualified, by seniority
Third:	Offer by qualified and seniority
Sundays-
First:	Offer by occupation and seniority
Second:	Offer by qualified and seniority
37
e) I
WEEKEND SCHEDULE- OVERTIME REPLACEMENT
First:	Offered to the outgoing and incoming ‘shifts by
occupationand seniority,then by qualifiedand seniority.
Second:	Offeredto the 07h00 to 15h00 shift by occupation and
seniority, then by qualified and seniority.
In the above there can be no conflict of regular hours combining with the overtime hours resulting in consecutivehoursworked exceeding twelve (12) hours.
When overtime is necessary on this schedule it will be offered to employees as above. This does not meanevery absencewill require overtime to be used.
2.	MANDATORYOVERTIME (SATURDAY SHIFT) MORETHAN ONE EMPLOYEE ON AN OCCUPATION
Ifall operators on the shift and occupationare required to work, then they are scheduled as such.
If not all operators on the shift and occupation are requiredto work, we will offer the work to the qualified, most senior employees on the shift and occupation. Ifwe are unabletofill our overtime requirement inthis manner,then the qualified, mostjunior employees on the shift and occupation must work as scheduled.
SEVEN DAY SCHEDULE FOUR (4) SHIFTS:
First:	Offered by assignment and seniority where there is no conflict
with regular hours combiningwith the overtime hours resulting in consecutivehoursworked exceeding twelve (12) hours.
Second:	Offered by occupation and seniority where there is no conflict
with regular hours combiningwith the overtime hours resulting in consecutive hours worked exceeding twelve (12) hours.
Third:	Offered by qualified and seniority where there is no conflict
with regular hours combiningwith the overtime hours resulting in consecutive hours worked exceeding twelve (12) hours.
When overtime is necessaryonthis schedule it will be offeredto employees on their days off as above. This does not mean every absence will require overtime to be used.
38
ARTICLE 12- REPORTING FOR WORK
12.01	If an employee reportsforwork atthe regularly scheduled time for hisshift, heshall be entitled to a minimum cf four (4) hours work or pay at his regular hourly rate, unless previously notified by the company not to report for work. This provision shall not apply when lack of work is due to conditions beyond the control of the Company, or when the employee is returning to work following an absence.
12.02	The Company will endeavourto give eight (8) hours notice ifwork is not available on an employee’s scheduled shift. Subjectto Article 12.01, for the 15h00 to 23h00 shift, the Companywill give a minimumfour (4) hours notice ifwork is not available on an employee’sscheduled shift. Forthe 23h00 to 07h00 shift, the Companywill give notice during the employee’s current shift that work is not available on the employee’s next scheduled shift.
ARTICLE 13 -WAGE RATESAND CALL-IN PAY
13.01	a) The rates of wages as outlined in Schedule I attached hereto shall be
effective for the duration of this agreement.
b) Probationary Employee:
After sixty (60) working days the employeewill receive the contractual rate of pay for the occupation performed by him.
The Maintenance Department ticketed employees are excluded from the probationarypay rate period and are paidthe contractual rate from the date cf hire.
At the discretion of the Department Supervisor, if the employee becomes qualified beforethe probationaryperiod ends, the employee will be paid at the contractual rate of the occupation.
13.02	When an employee isdirected by the Company to work in anotherjob classification for which he/she is recognized as being qualified*, and performs at ninety (90%) percent or better, he/she shall receive their former average unlessthe earnings on the newjob are higher; in which case the earnings of the newjob will be paid. An employee performing lessthan ninety (90%) percent on the newjob shall receive his/her guaranteed ninety (90) percent earnings for that job. However, if the employee is not qualified on thejob to which he/she has been directed, he/she will be paidtheir average rate of earnings unlessthe ratefor the newjob is higher, in which case the rate for the newjob will be paid.
39
* Generally speaking, qualified means that the employee has previously satisfactorily fulfilled and hasworkedat leastonetime on that occupation inthe last six (6) months.
Whenever an employee issubjectto layoffand he is using his rightto displace, he will then receive the rate for such otherjob. Referto Schedule I (E).	'
13.03	An employee called at home outside his regularly scheduled hours of work shall be paid not less than the equivalent of four (4) hours pay at straighttime rate, provided that the employee acceptssuch work as isavailable, inorderto qualify for such pay. Itisunderstoodthat if such acalloccursbetween23h00 and07h00, said employee will receive time and one half his regular ratefor these four (4) hours.
It is understoodthat such employee must have left the property of the Company, and has completed his regular hours of work scheduled that same day.
Inthe case where an employeeis calledto work before his regular shift for lessthan four (4) hours, he will be paid the number of hours worked at the rate provided in this Article if applies.
Inthe case where an employee iscal'led to work before his regular shift and iffor reasons such as lack of materialsor abnormalworking conditions, that employee is sent back home before the end of his regular shift, all hours worked before his regulardaily hours will be paid at the rate of time and a half his regular pay.
It is also understoodthat hoursforwhich an employee receives a premium under the provisionofthisArticle 13.03, will not be counted for the purposeof calculating the overtime premium provided in Article 11.
13.04	An employeewho is required for jury service will be paid, for each day of such service, the difference betweeneither his regular hourly rate, or his average hourly earnings if he is working under the wage incentive plan for the number of hours he normally works on his regular shift, and the payment he received for jury service. Theemployeewill presentproofof service and the amount of pay received or to be received.
The calculations of his pay will be figured on the basis of the employee's pay for a complete normal period of work for the shift to which he belongs during the last week inwhich he did such work beforehewas calledtojury service. The provisions enumerated above will also apply to witness pay in cases where it may not otherwise be retrievable.
13.05	COMBINEDOCCUPATION-An employee,whose regulardaily assignment isto work concurrently on more than one occupation is recognized as working on a combined occupation. Such employee will receivefor the entire shift, the highest hourly contractual rate provided he has worked at least one (1) hour on that
40
occupationfor the eight (8) hour shift, or ninety (90) minutesfor the twelve (12) hour shift.
ARTICLE 14 - SHIFT PREMIUM
14.01	a) The Company agrees to pay a shift premium of twenty cents (200) for the third or night shiftfor hours worked between23h00 and07h00 providedthat such premiumwill notform part of the employee's regular hourly ratefor the purposeof incentive,overtime or any other premiumorbonuscompensation.
The Company agrees to pay a shift premium of fifteen cents(150) per hour k) for the second, or afternoon shift, for hours worked between 15h00 and 23h00, providedthat such premiumwill notform part of the employee's regular hourly rate for the purposes of incentive, overtime, or any other premium or bonus compensation.
ARTICLE 15- PLANT HOLIDAYS.VACATION WITH PAY. AND INSURANCE PLAN
15.01	The plant holidays, vacations with pay and insurance plans applicable under this agreement are set forth inSchedulell, III, and IV hereof.
ARTICLE 16 - BULLETIN BOARD
16.01	a)	The Company agrees to providetwo (2) notice boards locatedas at present,
upon which the Unionmay post notices, subject to the following conditions:
1.	any such notice shall have received the written approval of the Company prior to posting;
2.	no change shall be made in any such notice, either by the Company or by the Unionafter it has receivedthe approval of the Company;
3.	notices shall be posted only on notice boards provided by the Company for the use of the Union;
4.	the subject matter of any notices posted shall be restrictedto notices of meetings, of the results of elections pertaining to the mill, or of recreationalor social activities.
l. The Unionagreesthat itwill notdistributeorpostany pamphlets, advertising or politicalmatter, cards, notices or any other kind of literature,within the mill or its appurtenances, except as provided in this agreement.
41
ARTICLE 17 - BEREAVEMENT
17.01	A) WEEKDAY EMPLOYEES
In the event of a death in the employee's immediatefamily (mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law,grandparents, grandchildren, daughter-in-law, son-inlaw) the Company agrees to grant a paid leave of absence of three (3) days.
Inthe event the death is of a spouse, a son or daughter, or common law spouse, the Company agrees to grant a paid leave of absence of five (5) days.
It is understood that if one of the days referred to above falls on a paid holiday or during the employee's annual vacation or plant shutdown, this or these days will be excluded.
The Companywill grant a one (1) day paid leave of absence, the day of funeral, in the event of death of the spouse of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law. An additional maximum of two (2) days of leave cf absence without pay will be granted if so requested by the employee concerned.
An individualwill be allowed three (3) working days off because of death inthe immediatefamily (as defined), the third day beingthe day ofthefuneral. Saturdaysand Sundaysdonotrequirepayment(under normal circumstances) and reduce the requiredworking days being off to one.
Abnormal circumstances that may require an additional day off and the payment for (in instancesthat involve a Saturday and/or Sunday) would be in the case of an individual having to take additional time underwritten instructions from a doctor, or in the case cf legal matters, that cannot be postponed, a lawyer.
An individual having been scheduled for work on a Saturday or Sunday and who isrestrictedfromdoingso becauseofadeath inthe immediatefamily, would be paid for such lost time at his/her regular rate.
v Forthe Stationary Engineers a day shall constitute of 12 hours.
42
B) WEEKEND EMPLOYEES
An employee shall be permitted time off from work for the purpose of attendingthe funeral of his wife, husband, mother, father, sister, brother, son or daughter, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, common-law spouse, grandparents, grandchild up to a maximum of two (2) days.
The Company will grant a one (1) day leave of absence, in the event of a death of the spouse of a brother-in-lawor sister-in-law.
When any of such days falls on an employee's scheduled working day, he shall be paid bereavement allowance based on twelve (2) hours for each day at time and one half at the wage rate for the hourly employee's classification as set out in the schedule attached to the Collective Labour Agreement, or if on pieceworkforthe current period set out in the schedule attachedto the Collective Labour Agreement.
The Company must be suppliedwith necessaryinformationpertainingto the reasons for such leave of absence.
C)	SEVEN (7) DAY, TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT EMPLOYEES
An employee shall be permitted time off from work for the purpose of attending the funeral of his mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparents, grandchild, daughter-in-law and son-in-law up to a maximum of three (3) days. An additional one Mcjay leaveof absence will be granted without pay if so requested by the employee concerned.
In the event the death is of a spouse, a son or daughter, or common-law spouse, the company will grant a paid leave of absence of three (3) or four (4) days accordingto the employee's schedule on that particularweek.
The company will grant a one <ld>y
death of the spouse of a brother-in-lawor sister-in-law.
When any of such days falls on an employee's scheduledworking day, he shall be paid bereavement allowance based on twelve (12) hours for each day at the wage rateforthe hourlyemployeesclassificationas set out inthe scheduleattachedtothe CollectiveLabour Agreement or if on pieceworkfor the current period set out inthe schedule attached to the Collective Labour Agreement.
The company must be supplied with necessary informationpertainingto the reasons for such leave of absence.
43
In the event of a death in the employee's immediate family (as defined)
D)	duringwinter, and a delayed burialto the spring months,an employeewill be granted an additional paid day of leave for the burial, if so requestedby the employee.
ARTICLE 18- UNION SECURITY
18.01	All current employees of the Employer and those hired on or after the date of ratification shall, upon completion of their probationary period, become and thereafter remain members in good standing of the Union as a condition of employment.
18.02	Probationary period As detailed in Article 8.02 herein.
18.03	The Employer shall remit to the Union, within fifteen (15) calendar days following completion of the probationary period,the United Food and Commercial Workers MembershipApplication Form signed by the employee.
18.04	(a) The Employer shall, during the term of this Collective Agreement, as a
condition of employment, deduct from members of the bargaining unit regularweekly UnionDuesasdeterminedbythe UnionandsuchDuesshall be remittedto the Union prior to the fifteenth (15th ) of the month following the month in which such deduction is made. The dues and initiation report will be provided in the form of e-mail (remit@ufcw175.com) or on computer diskette as well as a hard copy of the dues report being attached to the remittance cheque.
(b)	The Employershallcollect membership initiationfeesas may be required by the Union and forward the United Food and Commercial Workers InternationalUnionmembershipapplicatiorformsandsaidfeestothe Union with the regular monthly dues remittance.
(c)	A remittance statement which shall be documented by location containing the full name, rate of pay, classification, full-time or part-time, date of hire and Social Insurance Number of each employee, including hires, and the amount deducted (or the reason a deductionwas not made) and back dues and vacation pay breakdowns shall be forwarded to the Union with the monthly dues cheque. Wherever possiblethe Employerwill provide a tape to tape dues remittance.
(d)	The Employerwill providethe Unionwithin thirty (30) days of ratificationof this Collective Agreement and in January and July of each year of this Collective Agreement and any subsequent renewals a listing of all employees name, classification,Social InsuranceNumber, current address and telephone.
44
The Employer shall record the annual Union dues for each employee on his/her T4 form.
18.05	The Union shall provide the Employerwith thirty (30) days written notice of any increaseor decrease inthe amount of dues to bededucted from the bargaining unit employees.
18.06	The Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Employer, its agents and/or employees acting on behalf of the Employer,from any and all claims, demands, actions or causes of action arising out of, or in any way connected with the collection and remittance of such dues.
18.07	The Employershallondateof hireacquaint employees with the fact this Collective Agreement is in effect and the conditions of employment set out in Article 18.
18.08	AUTHORIZATION CARD
TO:	ST. LAWRENCE CORPORATION
DATE
I, the undersigned, hereby authorizeSt. Lawrence Corporation (the Company), to deductfrom mypay,U.F.C.W. Local175 Initiation FeeinaccordancewithU.F.C.W. Local 175 Bylaws.
I further authorize St, Lawrence Corporation (the Company), to deduct weekly startingfrom myfirst pay period, Uniondues as set forth by Local Union175
of the United Foodand Commercial Workers InternationalUnionandto remitsame to the U.F.C.W. Local175, Ontario.
EMPLOYEE
WITNESS
I, the undersigned, hereby authorizeSt. Lawrence Corporation (the Company), to Transmit to the United Foodand Commercial Workers International Union (the Union) the following personal information: S.I.N., ADDRESS, PHONE NUMBER, and updates of such.
EMPLOYEE
45
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVEOF ABSENCE
19.01	The Company may grant leave of absenceto any employeefor legitimate personal reasons. Any leave of absence granted by the Company shall be limited to three (3) months. Subject to the provisions of this agreement,the employee may return to his regularjob when the leave of absence expires, if he is still qualified and has the necessaryseniority.
19.02	An employee on the seniority list will be granted permissionfor absence while a recognizedphysiciancontinues to certify him as unfit by reason of sickness or injury for any work offered by the Company, providedthe duration of such absence does not exceed the length of time represented by the employee's seniority or nine (9) months, whichever is the lesser. However, by mutual agreement, permission for absence may be extended beyond nine (9) months on a month by month basis. Subjectto the provisions of this agreement, the employee may returnto his regular job when the leave of absence expires if he is still qualified and hasthe necessary seniority.
19.03	An employeewho hascompletedthe required probationary periodshall, on request, be granted maternity leave as perthe EmploymentStandardsAct, 2000.
19.04	MATERNITY AND PARENTALBENEFITS-An employee on the seniority listwill be granted permission for absence for maternity or parental benefits as per legislation.
19.05	The Company will grant leave of absence to attend official business authorized by the Localto not more than six (6) employees subject to the following conditions:
. that at least oneweek's written notice be given to the Company designating the persons for whom such leave js desired;
the number of employees from any one department to be mutually agreed, provided at least one may be elected from a department;
19.06	If an employee overstays his leaveof absence, he is presumedto have severed his employmentwiththe Company, unless he can give a satisfactory explanationfor his inability to return to work on the expiry date of his leave of absence.
19.07	LEAVEOF ABSENCE PROCEDURE-These are requestsabove regularvacation entitlements. Requests must be made at least one (1) month in advance. Replies mustbegivenwithinseven(7)days. Requestsmustbemadeonthefollowingform fully filled out.
46
OUR RESPONSE MUST BE IN WRITING BY WAY OF THIS FORM, FULLY COMPLETED.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE REQUEST
NAME:______________________ DATE:___________________
ABSENCE REQUIRED FROM:____________TO:_______________
INCLUSIVE.
RETURNEDTO WORK ON:____________________________
PERMISSION IS (GRANTED) OR (DENIED)
SIGNATU RE:
DATE:
(EMPLOYEE)
(S UPERVISOR)
ARTICLE 20 - NOTICES
20.01 Except where otherwise provided, any notice which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by prepaid registered mail as follows:
I (I)	To the Company
Personnel Manager St. Lawrence Corporation 24 Bath Road Iroquois, Ontario KOE 1K0
(II) To the Union
United Food and CommercialWorkers Local 175
20 Hamilton Ave. N.
Ottawa, Ontario K1Y1B6
Any notice given as aforesaid shall be deemed given and received as cf the business day following the day of mailing.
47
ARTIni F 21 - RFNFWAI AMENDMENT ANn TERMINATION
a) This agreementshall continue in effect untilthe 12th day of July 2005, and shall continueautomaticallythereafterfor annual periods of one year each, unless either party notifies the other in writing during the period of one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the expiration date that it desires to amend or terminate this agreement.
Negotiations shall begin within fifteen (I) days following notification for amendment of this agreement, prior to the current expiration date it shall expire, unless it is extendedfor a specific period by mutual agreement of the parties.
The Company agreesto paythe Union NegotiatingCommitteemembersfor hours lost from work due to meetings summoned by the Company for the renewal of the CollectiveAgreement.
The pay rate will be at straight time at the employee's regular hourly rate, or average hourly rate, whichever is applicable.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the partieshereto has causelthis agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representativesthis / day of {\-u-Cj cc^ry . 2002.
FOR THE COMPANY
48
SCHEDULE I - RATES OF PAY
					
Dept	Occupation	Code			
Yam Preparation					
01	Size Mixer Helper	1051	DPWP	12.57	11.31
01	Slasher Tender	1050	DPWP	12.94	11.65
01	Warper Creeler	1041	DPWP 12.25 11.03		
01	Warper Tender	1040	DPWP	12.67 11.40	
01 Winder Tender		1080	MDHP 12.33		
01 Fixer		1002	MHP	14.10	
		1042	MHP	12.02	
					
02	Fixer Saurer & Sulzer	2033-36	DPWP	14.29	12.86
02	Fixer Tsudakoma	2034	DPWP	14.29	12.86
02	Tying Machine Operator	2004	DPWP	13.12	11.81
02	Weaver Tsudakoma	2112	DPWP	13.06	11.75
02	Weaver Saurer & Sulzer	2110,11	DPWP	13.06	11.75
02	Beam Handler	2005	MHP	12.33	
02	Cloth Doffer	2011	MHP	12.31	
02	Fixer Unifil 5 Uster	2035	MHP	14.11	
02	Loom Cleaner	2013	MHP | 11.95		
02	Oiler Pattern Cutter		MHP	12.26	
02			MHP		
02	Smash Hand 2009		MHP 12.54		
02	Weave Utility	2006	MHP 13.23		
49
Dept
Occupation
Dye & Bleach
03
| 03
Asst. Cold Pad Tender
Code
3080
Bleach Range Tender
3020
Classif-
ication
MDHP
MDHP
12.87
03
Cold Pad Tender
3070
MDHP
13,51
03
Dye Beck Tender
MDHP
12.89
03
Loop Dryer Tender
3040
MDHP
12.67
| 03
Scutcher Tender
3030
MDHP
12.70
Unroller Tender
3000
MDHP
12.67
03
03
Finishing Utility
Greige Utility
3095
MHP
3090
MHP
12.67
12.25
04
Applique Mach. Operator
4195
DPWP
04
Auto Cutter
4045
DPWP
12.59
11.33
04
Classer Line & Regular
4040
DPWP
04
Cloth Inspector
2300
04
Cutter
4010
DPWP
12.28
11.05
04
Cutter-Bibs
MHP
12.32
04
Facecloth Classer
4060
DPWP
12.41
11.17
04
Finish Sidehem Operator
DPWP
12.57
04
Fin. Towelling Inspector
4037
UHP
04
Sidehem Operat o r
2210
DPWP
12.74
11.47
04
Labeller
4160
DPWP
12.27
11.04
04
Overedger
4150
04
Parceller
4190
DPWP
12.33
11.10
04
Repairer
4006
04
Sewing Machine Operator
4130
DPWP
04
Sewing Machine Bibs
4131
DPWP
	Occupation	Code	Classif- ication	Rate	90% Guar Rate .
	Auto Endhemmer Oper.	4135	MDHP	12.62	11.36.
04 ■	Shearer/Slitter	4035	MDHP	12.70	11.43
Re-Inspector
4009
12.26
Secondary Classer
4041
DPWP
12.33
11.10
4000
MHP
12.79
4012
14.12
11.88
14.47
05
Set Maker
5036
DPWP
12.04
10.84
05
Monogram Operator
5038
UHP
11.51
05
05
Asst. Shipper/Receiver
Fork Lift Opertor-Rec.
12.05
11.59 f
05
05
05
05
Hoist Operator
5023
UHP
Inventory Checker
Packer Checker
Picker Packer
Lead Picker/Packer Check
11.63
5013	UHP	11.63 .	
5014	UHP	11.58	
1			
	1	;	
5025	UHP	10.95	
5033	UHP	11.82	
5035	UHP	12.20	
5021	UHP	11.31	
so19	UHP	11.80	
05
05
05
05
05
Repacking/Price Tagging
Sample Clerk
Shipper
Uti 1 ity Employee
Order Extractor
51
Dept	Occupation	Code	Classif- ication	Rate	90% Guar Rate
					
06	Supply Room Hand	6000	UHP	11.75	
06	Shop Helper	6001	UHP	11.86	
		6002	UHP	11.34	
		6004	UHP	12.25	
06	Quality Control Re-Insp.	6008	UHP	11.52	
06	Pattern Designer	6012	UHP	12.69	
Trade:	men				
07	Stationary Eng., Chief	7001	Trades	18.48	
07	Stationary Eng, 3rd Class	7002	Trades	16.65	
07	General Maint (Not Ticketed)	7009	Trades	15.15	
07	Elect. Techn., Grade 1	7010	Trades	17.29	
07	Electrician, Ticketed	7014	Trades	16.25	
07	General Maint Ticketed	7015	Trades	16.25	
07	Carpenter-Ticketed	7017	Trades	16.25	
07	Instrum. Tech., Grade 1	7040	Trades	17.29	
Probationary Employees
Up to 20 days (160 hrs)
21 to 40 days (320 hrs)
8.51
41 to 60 days (480 hrs]
Occupation Classifications
Pieee Work Padd
DPWP
Measured Direct Hourly
MDHP
Measured Hourly Paid
MHP
Unmeasured Hourly Paid
UHP
Tradesmen
Trades
52
All Employeeson the payroll as of June 23rd, 2002 shall receive a lumpsum payment of two hundred and twenty-five dollars ($225.00). This wage adjustment shall be paid on a separate cheque with minimum deductions.
53
SCHEDULE I - RATES OF PAY
Revised: July 13, 2003
ication
01	Size Mixer Helper		DPWP	12.82	11.54
01	Slasher Tender	1050	DPWP	13.20	11.88
01	Warper Creeler	1041	DPWP	12.50	11.25
01	Warper Tender	1040	DPWP	12.92	11.63
01	Winder Tender	1080	MDHP	12.58	
					
01	Yarn Supplier	1042	MHP	12.26	
Weave	Room				
02	Fixer Saurer & Sulzer	2033-36	DPWP	14.58	!§:!§
02	Fixer Tsudakoma	2034	m?	14.58	13.12
02	Tying Machine Operator	2004	DPWP	13.38	12.04
02	Weaver Tsudakoma	2112	DPWP	13.32	U.40
02	Weaver Saurer & Sulzer	2110,11	DPWP	13.32	11.99
02	Beam Handler			12.58	
02	Cloth Doffer	I		12.56	
90% Guar
90Ka£ear
Loom Cleaner
2013
02	Smash	Hand	2009	MHP	12.79	
02	Weave	Utility	2006	P	13.49	
Dept
03
occupation
Asst. Cold Pad Tender
Bleach Range Tender
Code
3080
3020
fSlrnrtaiidhr
ication
Rate
13.08
13.13
90% Guar
Rate
03
Cold Pad Tender
3070
13.78
03
Dye Beck Tender
3050
MDHP
13.15
03
Loop Dryer Tender
3040
MDHP
12.92
12.95
12.92
12.92
12.50
04	Applique Mach. Operator'			12.44	11.20
04	Auto Cutter	4045	DPWP	12.84	11.56
04	Classer Line & Regular	4040	DPWP	12.66	11.39
04	Cloth Inspector	2300	DPWP	12.61	11.35
04	Cutter	4010	DPWP	12.53	11.27
04	Cutter-Bibs	4014	MHP	12.57	
04	Facecloth Classer.	4060	BPftP	12.66	11.39
04	Finish Sidehem Operator	4141		12.82	11.54
04	Fin. Towelling Inspector	4037	UHP	11.79	
04	Sidehem Operator	2210	DPWP	12.99	11.70
04	Labeller	4160	DPWP	12.52	11.26
| 04	Overedger			12.52	11.26
04	Parceller			12.58	11.32
04	Repairer			12.40	11.16
04	Sewing Machine Operator		DPWP	12.52	11.26
04	Sewing Machine Bibs	4131	DPWP	12.52	11.26
55
Dept	Occupation	Code	Classif- ication	Rate	Guar Rate
04	/AutoEndhemmer Oper.	4135	MDHP	12.87	11.59
04	Shearer/Slitter	4035	MDHP	12.95	11.66
04	Re-Inspector	4009	MHP	12.51	
			DPWP	12.58	11.32
04	Section Hand	4000	MHP	13.05	
04	Sewing Fixer	4005	MHP	14.40	
04	Sewing Supplier	4007	MHP	12.12	
04	Utility	4004	MHP	12.23	
04	Head Sewing Fixer	4012	MHP	14.76	
Shipping & Receiving					
05	Set Maker	5036	DPWP	12.28	11.05
05	Monogram Operator	5038	P	11.74	
05	Asst. Shipper/Receiver	5024	P	12.29	
05	Fork Lift Opertor-Rec.	5002	UHP	11.82	
05	Hoist Operator	5023	P	11.83	
05	Inventory Checker	5013	UHP	11.86	
05	Packer Checker	5014	UHP	n-M	
05	Picker Packer	5020	UHP	11:88	
OS	Lead Picker/Packer Check	5022	UHP	12.06	
05	Repacking/Price Tagging	5025	P	11.17	
OS	Sample Clerk	5033	UHP	12.06	
05	Shipper	5035	UHP	12.44	
05	Utility Employee	5021	UHP	11.54	
05	Order Extractor	5019	UHP	12.04	
56
Dept	Occupation	Code	~ ■ •• -	Rate
			ication	
Servic	e			
06
06
Supply Room Hand
Shop Helper
6000
6001
UHP
11.99
UHP
12.10
90% Guar
Rate
06
Sanitation Janitor
6002
UHF'
11.57
06
Laboratory Tester
6004
UHP
12.50
06
Quality Control Re-Xnsp.
6008
UHP
11.75
06
Appr. Pattern Designer
6012
07
Stationary Eng., Chief
7001
07
Stationary Eng, 3rd Class
7002
Trades
07
General Maint
(Not Ticketed)
7009
Trades 115.45'
07
Elect. Techn., Grade 1
7010
Trades
07
Electrician, Ticketed
Trades
07
General Maint Ticketed
Trades
07
Carpenter-Ticketed
7017
Trades
17.64
16.58
16.58
07
Instrum. Tech.. Grade 1
Trades

yp ie 19 dap (lie
!1 t§ 40 dap (31®
8.68
41 to 60 days (480 hrs)
Occupation Classifications
Direct Piece Work Paid
DPWP
Measured Direct Hourly Paid
MDHP
Measured Hourly Paid
MHP
Unmeasured Hourly Paid
UHP
Tradesmen
Trades
57
SCHEDULE I - RATES OF PAY
Occupation
Code
Czkzagbakfit-
ication
Rate
90% Guar Rate
Yarn Preparation
01
(Size Mixer Helper
01
(Slasher Tender
01
Warper Creeler
01	]Warper Tender
01
01
Winder Tender
Fixer
1051
DPWP
1050
DPWP
1041
DPWP
1040
DPWP
1080
MDHP
1002
MHP
13.08
13.46
12.75
13.18
12.83
14.67
11.77
12.12
11.48
11.86
01
Yarn Supplier
1042
MHP
12.51
Weave Room
02
Fixer Saurer & Sulzer
2033-36
DPWP
13.38
02
Fixer Tsudakoma
2034
DPWP
14.87
13.38
02
Tying Machine Operator
2004
DPWP
02
Weaver Tsudakoma
2112
DPWP
13.65
13.59
12.28
12.23
2110,11
DPWP
2005
MHP
13.59
12.83
12.23
2011
MHP
12.81
2035
MHP
14.68
02
Loom Cleaner
2013
MHP
12.43
02
Oiler
2012
MHP
12.76
02
Pattern Cutter
2040
2009
2006
MHP
MHP
MHP
13.56
13.05
13.76
58
Dept	Occupation	Code	Classif- ication	Rate	Guar Rate
					
03	Cold Pad Tender			13.34	
03	Bleach Range Tender	3020	MDHP	13.39	
03	Cold Pad Tender	3070	MDHP	14.06	
03	Dye Beck Tender	3050	MDHP	13,41	
03	Loop Dryer Tender	3040	MDHP	13 . 18	
03	Scutcher Tender	3030	MDHP	13.21	
03	Tender	3000	MDHP	13.18	
03	Finishing Utility	3095	MHP	13.18	
03	Utility	3090	P	12.75	
04
Applique Mach. Operator
4195
DPWP
12 . 69
04
Auto Cutter
4 0 4 5
DPWP
04
Classer Line & Regular
4040
DPWP
04
Cloth Inspector
2300
DPWP
4010
4014
DPWP
MHP
12.82
4060
DPWP
12.91
04
04
04
Finish Sidehem
4141
Pin. Tcaweelling Inspector
I	Sidehem
Operator
2210
13.08
12.03
13.25
11.77
11.92
04
Labeller
4160
DPWP
12.77
11.49
04
04
04
Overedger
4150
DPWP
Parceller
4190
DPWP
(Repairer
4006
DPWP
12.77
12.83
12,65
11.49
11,55
11 . 38
04
Sewing Machine Operat o r
4130
12.77
11.49
04
(Sewing Machine Bibs
12.77
59
	Occupation	Code	Classif- ication	Rate	90% Guar Rate
04	Auto Endhemmer Oper.	4135	MDHP	13.13	11.81
04	Shearer/Slitter	4035	MDHP	13.21	11.89
04	Re-Inspector	4009	MHP	12,76	
04	Secondary Classer	4041	DPWP	12.83	11.55
04	Section Hand	4000	P	13.31	
04	Sewing Fixer	4005	MHP	14.69	
04	Sewing Supplier	4007	P	12.36	
	Utility	4004	MHP	12.47	
	Head Sewing Fixer	4012	MHP	15.06	
Shipping & Receiving					
05	Set Maker	5036	DPWP •	12.53	11.27
05	Monogram Operator	5038	UHP	11.97	
05	Asst. Shipper/Receiver	5024	UHP	12.54	
05	Fork Lift Opertor-Rec.	5002	UHP	12.06	
05	Hoist Operator	5023	UHP	12.10	
05	Inventory Checker	5013	UHP	12.10	
05	Packer Checker	5014	UHP	12.05	
	Picker Packer	5020		12.04	
	Lead Picker/Packer Check	5022		12.30	
05	Repacking/Price Tagging	5025	P	11.39	
05	Sample Clerk	5033	UHP	12.30	
05	Shipper	5035	UHP	12.69	
05	Utility Employee	5021	UHP	11.77	
05	Order Extractor	5019	UHP	12.28	
60
Dept
06
06
06
06
06
Occupation
Supply Room Hand
Shop Helper
Sanitation Janitor
Laboratory Tester
Quality Control Re-Insp.
Code
6000
6001
6002
6004
6008
Classif-
ication
UHP
UHP
UHP
UHP
UHP
Rate
12.23
12.34
11.80
12.75
11.99
90% Guar
Rate
06
Appr. Pattern Designer
6012
UHP
13.20
07
07
07
7001
Trades
19.23
Stationary Engineer, 3rd Class
7002
Trades
17.32
General Maint
(Not Ticketed)
7009
Trades
15.76
Elect. Techn./ Grade 1
7010
Trades
17.99
07
Electrician, Ticketed
7014
Trades
16.91
07
07
07
General Maint Ticketed
7015
Trades
16.91
Carpenter-Ticketed
7017
Trades
16.91
Instrum. Tech., Grade 1
7040
Trades
17.99
8.85
8.99
41 to 60 days (480 hrs)
Occupation Classifications
Direct Piece Work Paid
DPWP
Measured Direct Hourly Paid
MDHP
Measured Hourly Paid
MHP
SCHEDULEIl - PLANT HOLIDAYS
1
a)
Except for Stationary Engineers,no work will be performed on the following days which will be recognized as paid holidays:
NewYear's Day (Jan. 1) January 2nd Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day*
Civic Holiday Thanksgiving Day Labour Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
An eleventh holiday is granted and the date for this holidaywill be mutually agreed to, a minimum of 6 weeks priorto the Christmas Holiday.
Any work requiredby Managementotherthan Stationary Engineersonthese holidays, shall be on a voluntary basis by seniority, provided they are qualified to do the work.
Seven (7) day, twelve (12) hour shift & weekend schedule
Employeeswill be required to work their regular shift when one of these holidaysoccur. Employeeswhowork on a plant holidaywill bepaidtimeand one half(1VI) for hoursworked.
Both employees who are scheduled to work and employees who are not scheduled to work on one of these holidayswill be paid eight (8) hours pay for holiday.
To beeligiblefor the holiday pay, the employee must meetthe qualifications of ScheduleII, 3 a).
2. Plantholidaypaywill be computed on the basisof eight (8) hoursatthe employees regular hourly rate of pay i nthe case of hourly workers, and on the basis of eight (8) hoursatthe employees straighttime average hourly earnings for the pay period in which the holiday occurs in the case of pieceworkers.
Employeeson twelve (12) hour shifts will havetheir pay computed on the basis of twelve (12) hours at the employee's regular hourly rate of pay in the case of hourly workers, and on the basis of twelve (12) hours at the employees straight time average hourly earnings for the pay period inwhich the holiday occurs in the case of pieceworkers.
62
In order to qualify for plant holiday pay, the employee must work his full scheduled shifts on each of the work days immediately preceding and immediatelyfollowing the plant holiday concerned, except in the case where the employee was prevented from working these declared working days because of duly certified illness, or death in his immediate family (husband, wife, child, father, mother, brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law,sister-in-law.grandparents,grandchild, common-lawspouse, daughter-in-law, son-in-law) or if the employee had permission from the Company to be excused from work on these two days, provided he has effectively worked during one of the four weeks preceding the week inwhich the holiday occurs. If an employee has not worked the declared working days previous to and following the holiday for reasons cf being laid off, he will beentitled to the paid holiday, provided he has effectively worked during the week preceding the week in which the holiday occurs.
Any holiday or holidays occurring during an employee's vacation will entitle the employee to add additional correspondingday(s) to their vacation. The selection of the saidday(s) will be allowed after mutual agreement with his Supervisor.
If an employee has not worked the declared working days previous to and following the statutory holiday, or statutory holidays and that more than one (1) statutory holiday falls on consecutive days, the Company may not penalize the employee for more than one(1) statutory holiday.
Inthe event Canada Day occurs on a Tuesday, it shall be observed on the previous Monday, and where Canada Day occurs on a Wednesday or Thursday, it shall be observed on the following Friday.
Ifa plant holiday occurs on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company will post the date of observance of such holiday which will be on a Friday or Monday.
4.	An employee who is required to work on a plant holiday will be paid for work performed on such day at one and one half times his regular straight time rate of pay in addition to his holiday pay.
5.	Stationary Engineers shall receivepayforthe plant holidaysset out inthis schedule in accordance with the terms hereof and when requiredto work on a plant holiday, will be paid for work performed on such day at time and one half his regular rate of pay.
6.	Paydaywill continue to beon Thursday at16h00, exceptwhen a Statutory Holiday falls on a Thursday, in which case the pay will be distributed on the following working day at 16h00.
63
7.	Any employee who is requiredto work on Christmas Day or New Year's Day shall be compensated for each hour so worked at double time their straight time regular rate, in addition to the holiday pay.
64
SCHEDULE!!!- VACATIONS WITH PAY
1.	The Company agrees to grant two (2) weeks' vacation to each employee in it's service at the commencement of such vacation. The Company may close all or part of the plant for vacation purposesduring the summer months and will endeavour to have the vacation shutdown during the first full week of July, if business conditions permit.
Any employee with five (5) years' service with the Company is entitled to a third week of vacation.
Any employeewith twelve (12) years service with the Company isentitledto afourth week of vacation.
Any employee with twenty-five (25) years' service with the Company is entitled to a fifth week of vacation.
It is understoodthat for employees working on weekend shifts, a week vacation shall consist of Saturday and Sunday off.
In the selection of an employee's dates of vacation, an employee having more seniority will have preferenceover an employee with less seniority.
Employees in departments which do not have an annual shutdown period will indicate before April 15ththeir preferenceas to the dates of their first and second weeks of vacation.
Employees entitled to a third (3), fourth (4) or fifth (5) week vacation will indicate beforeApril 15th, their preferenceas to the dates of the period of the third and fourth weeks vacation.
The third (3), fourth (4) and fifth (5) weeks vacation will be scheduled as far as possible in advanceto coincidewiththewishes expressed bythe employees taking into considerationthe needs of production.
The Company agrees all employees can have their vacation pays receivedduring their elected vacation weeks.
2.	Total amount of vacation pay and time of each employee shall be based on his lengthof continuous servicewiththe Company and shall exclude previousvacation pay. Theabove-mentionedshall becomputedinaccordancewiththetablesetforth below.
Percentageof pay shall be for the twelve (12) months precedingthe last full pay period of June.
65
The numberof years of continuousservice used in reckoning the amount of weeks for which an employee is entitled to take under the terms cf this Article will be computed as of the 30th of June prior to the "Annual Vacation Weeks".
TABLE OF VACATION TIME AND PAYMENT
The following vacation time and table will apply:
Vacation Payment% Entitlement Effective
Year's Service {weeks) 06-18-2001
25 & over
2
3
3
4 4
4
5
Except for Maintenance employees, any work performed during the annual shutdown will be offered on a voluntary basis, and by seniority provided they are qualified to do the work.
The Companywill confirm through posting the date of the plant shutdown (annual vacation) by April 1st. The employees concernedwill in such case have up to April 15thto select the date of their first and second week vacation.
3.	Scheduling of vacations will continue to be done as per our Collective Labour Agreement- Schedule III.
For employeeswho do not scheduletheir additional vacation weeks as above, the following will apply.
Employeeswill have until February 1stto request their vacation dates. This will be awarded on a first come basis and not by seniority. The weeks of vacation will be scheduled as far as possible in advance to coincide with the wishes expressed by the employees, taking into considerationthe needs of production.
Any vacation entitlementnot requestedpriorto the February^ deadlinewill be lost if it cannot be agreed to and taken before June 1st of the vacation year.
4,	One week's vacation (defined)
One week of vacation will consist of a week from Sunday's shift to and include Saturday's shift.
66
SCHEDULED - INSURANCE PLAN
The Company agreesto insuretheemployees inaccordancewiththe general planthat has been discussed and agreed to with the Union. This plan will be administered by recognizedinsurancecompaniesand/orassociations. Eachemployeewill receivea copy of the plan.
1.	The Company and the Union agree to implement the new Plan as quickly as possible. The Company andthe Unionagreeto implementa newDentalPlan. The Company agreesto sign all necessary ParticipationAgreements for the new benefit Plans.
2.	An employeeshall not become entitled to the above mentioned benefits unless he has three (3) months continuous service with the Company.
3.	It is agreed that the average Company contribution to the employee's insurance plan will be$14.98 perweek and that all eligible employees will contribute the difference in cost. It is also understood that any future increase/decrease in premiumswill be absorbed on a50/50 basis by the employeesandthe Company. However, any request by the employees for additional benefits during the present agreement, the additionalweekly cost will be fully absorbed by the employees.
4.	Employees on vacation are deemed to be employed and subject to full insurance coverage.
5.	All employees mustadhereto the Company's Group InsurancePlan upon reaching their respective date of eligibility and must retain their participation in the plan throughouttheir period of employment with the Company.
67
SCHEDULEV
1.	Scissors allocation:
The Company will replace scissors that have been broken by accident without any charge for the employees. This Article will apply not more than twice a year. This applies forjobs requestingthe utilization of scissors only.
2.	Safety Shoes
Safety shoes will befurnished to employees eligible to participated the company's Safety Shoe Programduring the contract year.
Dye House employees are eligiblefor up to three (3) pairs per year to be paidto a total maximum of two hundred seventy dollars ($270.00) per year.
Maintenanceemployeesare eligible for up to two (2) pairs per year to be paidto a total maximum of one hundred eighty dollars ($180.00) per year.
All other employees on the pre-established list are eligible for one (1) p?iir peryear at $90.00 maximum peryear.
YARN PREP Slasher Helper Size Mixer Helper Yarn Supplier Mechanics
SEWING ROOM
Mechanic Supply
Floor Lady Shearer Sidehemmer Sweeper
Yardage Inspector Shoeswill belimitedtol pair peryear, per employee, exceptwhere*
WEAVE ROOM Cloth Doffer Beam Man WarpTyer
All Greige Inspection Loom Fixer Loom Cleaner Oiler
Smash Hand Weavers
RECEIVING/SHIPPING All Shipping Personnel
DYE& BLEACH Unroller Tender •Scutcher Tender *Loop Dryer Tender *Dye Tender Bleach RangeTender •Utility- Finish 'Cold Pad Tender *Cold PadAssistant Greige Utility
MAINTENANCE/SERVICE *SupplyStoreman *All Maintenance Men •Stationary Engineers
68
Eligible employees will be furnished with two (2) pairs of coveralls per year paid in full by the company.
Those eligible are:
Fixers . Weave, Sewing, Yarn Preparation
-	Weave Room Oilers, Beam Handlers
-	Cold Pad Tenders, Assistant	Cold	Pad Tenders, Dye Beck
Tender
.	Finish Utility
.	Maintenance Department
Lab coats are furnished to Lab employees.
4.	Optional schedule of hours of work:
If the need arises, the Company will have the right to institute a seven (7) day operation schedule for all plant, a department or part of a department.
In such a case, both the Union and the employee will be previously contacted in order to discuss the type of schedule or any other items related to such an implementation. A one month notice period will be given prior to the shift implementation.
5.	Tradesmen:
It is understoodthat Tradesmen that have begun a task on regular schedule hours will be requiredto complete the task when completion of work cannot be delayed.
6.	Sunday Premium for Stationary Engineers:
It is understoodthat the hereafter mentioned Stationary Engineerswill be paid at therateofa hundredandeighty-fivepercent(185%)forwork performedonSunday, during the lifetimecf the present Collective LabourAgreement.
NAME:	MR. MICHAELSHARPE
MR. LAWRENCEMERKLEY
7.	Voluntary Overtime Work: RE: 11.05 b)
Between May 1st and Labour Day, any work performedafter23h00 Friday,shall be voluntary, except for Stationary Engineersand employees on weekend shifts.
Employeeswillingto perform overtimework Saturday during the voluntary weekend periodwill sign the overtime postingsheet by every Tuesday noon hour.
69
The Companywill advise by FridaylOhOO ifwork is available.
If there are not enough volunteer employees to fill the needs of production on Saturday only, the Company may, at it's discretion, use otherworkers to meet these needs. It is understoodthat those workers will be paid at regular straight time rate, without regardto the other provisions of this Collective LabourAgreement, and will have no rights under the Collective LabourAgreement.
3.	"Ad Hoc"Labour/Manaaemenf Committee:
Duringthe lifetime of the Collective LabourAgreement, the parties agree to meet to discuss all matters related to productivity or flexibility of administration, production,communication,cost reduction,etc., inordertoevaluatethe possibilities of improving each one of these or any other matters, taking into consideration the well-being of employees as well as the well-being of the Company.
By mutual agreement, the parties will attempt to identify the areas where such improvements might be applied and the possible solutions to be implemented.
9.	Tool replacement:
It is generally agreed that, as a policy, the Company will replacetools brokenwhile working on Company propertywithtools of equivalentquality and will endeavourto expedite the replacement.
10.	Mealarranaements-weekend employees:
There will be no interruption cf the machines for meals but proper time will be allowed for the same. Therewill bethree twenty minuteseating periods granted at a time designated by the Company during each,shift provided that whenever possible productive machinery will be continued in operation during such twenty minutes and the Company will not be obliged to engage additional personnel to provide for the operation thereof. Employees will take their rest period at a designated place.
11.	Layoff and termination:
The Company will follow all present legislation in regards to termination of employment and termination or severance pay.
Temporary layoffs may extend up to thirty-five (35) weeks at which time the employee will firstly have the choice to exercise contractual bumping rights if available, secondly to receive any termination or severance pay, or to maintain contractual recall rights if this applies.
70
12.	Pension Plan:
The Company agrees to paytwenty cents (20) perhourfor eachemployee(pastthe probationary period) for all hours worked, to be deposited in a group R.R.S.P. Rules of eligibility etc. to be discussed and agreed.
13.	Gainsharing:
The Company and the Union agree to leave open the option of having a Gainsharing Program.
14.	Health and Safety
I a)	The Company will take reasonablesteps to protect the health and ensure
safety of its workers during working hours.
b) The Union and employees will cooperate with the Company and give full support for the introduction, application and the respect of measures and rules concerning health and safety of employees at work.
c) The Company and the Union agree to maintain a Health and Safety Committee inwhich both are equally represented. The committee isformed of equal numbers of employees representing the workers and members representing the Company. The main function of this committee is to discussall questions relatedto healthand safety of employees at work. To makerecommendationswhen it isjudged necessary.
d)	The Health and Safety Committee will meet at least once every three (3) months. The minutes of these meetings will be kept for future reference. The committee meetingswill be heldduring normaloperation hours and this without loss of payfor the committee members representingthe workers.
e)	When an employee has an accident at work, the Company will give the first
aid treatment as required, as well as transportation to the hospital or to a doctor if necessary. Depending on the seriousness of the injury and the doctor’s decision, if required by the employee, the Companywill supply the transport back to the plant. In the case where the seriousness of the injury is such that the employee is unable to walk or drive his car, if required, the Company will supply transportation back to his home.
0	Inthe case where an employee injures himself during his regular shift and
must be absent to receivemedicaltreatments, hewill not lose any salary for the duration of his shift. If the employee is kept at the hospital or if he is returned home by the doctor, on his return to work he must present to his foreman a medical certificate signed by the doctor.
71
15.	All Stationary Engineerswillreceivean hourly increased"forty-six cents(460) due to thetransfer of the Chief Stationary Engineeroccupationfrom the Bargainingllnit to a Staff function.
This will become part of the new hourly rate for all shift Stationary Engineers.
The Union will have the right to have the Chief Stationary Engineer occupation reinstated to the Bargaining Unit if the regulationschange regardingthe duties of supervision, hiring, discipline, and terminations required for the Chief.
Should the reinstatementoccur, the above agreementwill be null and void with all affected pay rates reverting to their former pay rates.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto haR caused this agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representatives on this	7 day of Itv ^<3^. 2002.
,,idustrial\St. Lawrence Corp sig.wpd
72
SCHEDULEV
15.	In each year of the agreement, the Company will deduct two cents ($0.02) per hour
worked per employee, to be used by the Union toward their Life Insurance benefit plan. That cumulated amount will be sent monthly to the United Food and Commercial Workers.
The above is included in the Collective Agreement between St. Lawrence Corporation and United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, Local 175, effective period July 13*, 2002 to July 12th, 2005.	‘
Au//„cf (}ooi
Jdate