COLLECTIVE
LABOUR AGREEMENT BETWEEN
ST. LAWRENCE CORPORATION AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
1
“INDEX”
Preamble
01	Recognition and Coverage
02	Relationship
03	Management Functions
04	Representation and Grievance Procedure
05	Arbitration
06	Discharge Cases
07	Strikes and Lockouts
08	Seniority
09	Productivity
10	Wage Payment Methods
11	Hours ofWork and Overtime
12	Reporting for Work
13	Wage Rates and Call-in Pay
14	Shift Premium
2
15	Plant Holidays, Vacation with Pay, and Insurance Plan
16	Bulletin Board
17	Bereavement
18	Union Security
19	Leave cf Absence
20	Notices
21	Renewal, Amendment, and Termination
Schedule I: Rates of Pay Schedule II: Plant Hobdays Schedule IB: Vacations tvith Pay Schedule IV: Insurance Plan Schedule V Authorization Card Schedule VI: Other Matters
3
This agreement entered into as of the 1st day of February, 1999.
BETWEEN:
ST. LAWRENCE CORPORATION,in the Township of South Dundas, in die Province of Ontario (hereinafter referred to as the
“COMPANY”).
OF THE FIRST PART
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS (Local 478T) (hereinafter referred to as die “UNION”).
OF THE SECOND PART
4
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION ANI) ERAGE
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent with respect to all matters properly arising under this agreement for all of the Company’s hourly rated and piece-work employees at it’s plant in the Township cf South Dundas, save and except Supervisors, persons above the rank of Supervisors, Office and Sales Staff, as certified by the OntarioLabour Relations Board, die 29th day cf April, 1969.
1.02	Where the masculine pronoun is used herein, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun vtete the context so applies.
5
2.01 a)
b)
2.02
2.03
ARTICLE 2 ______________'JSHIF
The Company agrees that there wD_ be no discrimination, interference, restraint, or coercion exercised or practised by the Company or by any of it’s representatives with respect to any employee, because of his membership in, or activities on behalf of the Union.
The Union agrees that there rail, be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised upon employees of the Company by any cf its members or representatives.
The Union agrees that there will not be any Union activities or business conducted on the premises cf the Company, except as permitted by this agreement.
Work Performed by Management Personnel:
Work normally done by employees in the BargainingUnit wil not be performed by Management personnel, except when actually instructing or training employees, in emergency cases, when it is a question of experimental work for the production cf samples for development purposes or other research work deemed necessary by the Company.
6
ARTICLE 3
lCEMENT FUNCTIONS
3.01	The Union acknowledgesthat it is exclusively the function of the Company to:
a)	maintain order, disciplineand efficiency;
b)	hire, discharge, classify, direct, transfer, promote, demote, lay off and suspend or otherwise discipline employees, subject to the right to lodge a grievance as herein provided;
c)	make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, provided that they are not inconsistentwith the provisions cf this agreement; and
d)	generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and, without restrictingthe generality of the foregoing, to introduce or change machine processes; to make studies cf and to institute changes in work loads, job assignments, wage payment methods, methods of operation and work payment rates; to determine the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacture, schedules of production, kinds and location of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of it’s products, the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced and the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations.
7
3.02
3.03
In the case where the Company exercises it’s options as described in paragraph 3.01 c) it will notify the Union in writing five (5) working days .priorto the implementation of such and post on the general bulletin boards in the same time frame.
The Company agree5that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the other provisions of tliis agreement.
8
ARTICLE 4
REPRESENTATION AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
4.01	a)	TheUnion may elect or appointfrom employees in each ofthe
following departments, Stewards whose duties shall be to assist employees working in the Steward’s department, and shift where applicable, in presenting their grievances to the designated representatives cf the Company in accordance with the grievance procedure:
Department
Number of Stewards
Yarn Preparation	One
Weave	One
Dye & Bleach	One
Sewing	One
Maintenance	One
(Includes Boiler House)
Shippingand Receiving	One
(1) per shift (l)per shift (1)per shift (1) per shift (1)
(l)per shift
b)	The Company acknowledgesthe right cfthe Union to appoint
or select from amongst the Department Stewards on each shift, a representative to be known as a Chief Steward for that shift.
9
4.02	The Company agrees to recognize a Grievance Committee composed of persons designated as Officers or Stewards, or Chief Steward, the Chairman cf which shall be the Union President or his designate, pro videdthat not more than six (6) members cf the committee (including the Chairman) shall meet with the Company atonetime to deal with a grievance,
It is understood that the above mentioned number of Union Representatives will not exceed one (1) per occupationwrfcin the same department and neither exceed two (2) per department if they are on differentoccupations.
4.03	Employees shall not be eligible to serve as Stewards or as Chief Steward or as members cf the Grievance Committee unless they have been in the Company's continuous employ for at least three (3) months.
4.04	The Union shall keep the Company notified in Writing of the names of its authorized Stewards and Chief Stewards and other officers, and the respective effective dates of dieir appointment. The Company shallteqptheUnion notified in writing cf the names of supervisorswho may be called upon to act with respect to the administration cf this agreement.
4.05	The Union acknowledges that the Stewards and Chief Stewards and members of the Grievance Committee have their regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without
10
receiving permission from their Supervisor, which will not be unreasonably withheld. They shall state their destination to their Supervisor, together with their reasons therefore, and shall report again to their Supervisor at the time of their return to work if the Supervisoris in the department.
4.05	a) Time spent by Executive Committee members for Labour management meetings will be paid as follows:
For Eight 181 Hour ShiftEmployeeWorking 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
•	paid for meeting time plus one (1)hour EmployeeWorking3:00 p.m, to 11:00 p.m.
•	paid for meeting time plus one (1) hour
•	employeeworks balance cf his regular shift Employee Working 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
•	Employee to be excused from his entire shift either immediatelybefore or after the meeting day and paid for the shift
For Twelve (121 Hour Shift-
Employee Working7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
•	paid for meeting time plus one (1) hour Employee Working 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
•	employee to be excused from lis entire shift either immediately before or after the meeting and paid for the shift
Employee Day Off
•	Paid for meeting time plus one (l)hour
11
4.06	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of
employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, end it is understood that an employee has no grievance util he has first given his Supervisor an opportunity of adjusting his complaint. If an employee has a complaint, he shall discuss with his Supervisorwithin fifteen (15) working days for active employees, or twenty (20) working days for laid off employees, after the occurrence tf the circumstancesgiving rise to the complaint, and failing setdement it may then be taken up as a grievance within three (3)working days (seven (7) working days for employees on weekend shifts) following receipt <f the Supervisor's decision as follows:
STEP NO. 1
The employee will present his grievance in writing to hi5 Supervisor. The employeeconcemed and the Steward,or in case cf absence of the Steward, the Chief Steward shall discuss die grievance viftl the Supervisor.Failing a setdement, the Supervisor shall deliver his decision in writing three (3)working days (seven (7) working days for employees on weekend shifts) following the presentation of the grievance to him. Failing settlement:
STEP NO. 2
Within three @) working days, (seven (7) working days for employees on weekend shifts) after the decision is given under Step. No. 1, the grievance will be submitted in writing and presented by the employee accompanied by the Steward, or in the case of absence of the Steward, by the Chief Steward to the Personnel Manager. The grievance shall state the
12
reason(s) for the Supervisor’s decision in writing, under Step. No. 1 being unacceptable. The Personnel Manager shall deliver his decision in writing, within six (6) working days (seven (7) working days for employees on weekend shifts) after receiving the written grievance. Failing settlement:
STEP NO. 3
Within five (5) working days (seven (7) working days for employeeson weekend shifts) after the decision is given under Step No. 2, the grievor with the assistance of the Grievance Committee, will submit the grievance in writing to the Vice President cf Manufacturing, or in his absence, the Personnel Manager cf the Company. The grievance shall state the reason(s) for the Vies President cf Manufacturing or Personnel Manager’s decision under Step No. 2 being unacceptable. A meeting will then be held between the Vice President of Manufacturing or Personnel Manager and the Grievance Committee, and an accredited representative of the Union shall be present at the request of either the Company or the Union. The Steward from the area concerned or the Chief Steward, if he has been previously involved in the settlement of that grievance may displace one of the members of the Grievance Committee at such meeting. The Union Committee will notify the Company of any Steward or Grievor wishing to attend a meeting concerning their grievance. The decision of the Vice President of Manufacturing or Personnel Manager shall be delivered in writing within seven (7) working days.
13
4.06	Cont. It is understood that the Vice President of Manufacturing or Personnel Manager may have such counsel and assistance as he may desire at any meeting with the Union Grievance Committee.
4.07	Any collective grievance may be submitted by the Department Stewardor in case of absence of the Department Steward, by the Chief Steward to the Shift Supervisor or Department Supervisorwithin the same delays as spelled out above, provided said grievanceis signed by at least one of the employees involved, and/or one of the Officers of the Union.
4.08	Tailing settlement under the foregoing procedure of any difference between the partiesarising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, such difference or question may be submitted to arbitration as herein after provided. ]f no written request for arbitration is received within ten (10) working days afterthe decision under Step No. 3 is given, it shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned.
4.09	For the purposes cf Articles 4 and 5, a working day means a day from Monday to Friday, excluding Statutory Holidays and days when the Personnel Department is closed.
14
4.10
4.11
4.12
4.13
4.14
All agreements reached under the Grievance Procedure between the representatives of the Company and the representatives of the Union or between the employee(s) and the Company, provided it is not contrary to the provisions of this agreement, wIL be final and binding upon the Company, the Union, and the employees.
In all steps cf the Grievance Procedure, where no written answer has been given within the time limits specified, the employee(s) concerned or the Union, as the casemay be, shall be entitled to submit the grievance to the next step cf the Grievance Procedure, including arbitration.
At any step of the Grievance Procedure, necessary arrangementswill be made to permit the conferringparties to have access to the plant to view disputed operations and to confer with necessary witnesses, provided sufficient advance notice is given.
Any and all time limits fixed by this article and Article 5 may at
any time be extended by written agreement between the Company and the Union.
At the request of either party, a meeting will be held once each month between the Grievance Committee and a Company Committee appointed by the Vice President of Manufacturing. Such meeting shall be held not more than
two (2) weeks after the presentation cf the proposed agenda by the party requesting the meeting.
4.15 a) No monetary adjustment affected under the Grievance Procedureor Arbitration Procedure shall be made retroactive prior to the date the grievance was formally presented to the Company under the Grievance Procedure, except as to a grievance claiming payment of an improper wage rate, winch may be made retroactive to the date the grievance occurred.
b)	In cases cf missed overtime, or incorrect order cf recall over (8) eight hours, for the (5) five day schedule, or (12) twelve hours for the weekend, or (7) seven day schedule, the Company shall pay for all lost wages incurred, anything (8) eight hours or (12) twelve hours or less as per these schedules shall be rectified by remedy in kind. Suchremedy in kind for employees affected to (12) twelve hours for the weekend or (7) seven day schedulemeaning performing (8) eight hours of work for the (12) twelve hours compensation.
16
ARTICLE 5 ARBITRATION
5.01	When a written notice for arbitration is received by the Company in accordance with the terms cf Article 4.08, the grievance shall forthwith be subnutted to a sole arbitrator to be chosen in rotation amongst the following arbitrators:
Michel Picher	William Kaplan
Debra Leighton	Jean-Guy Clement
Claude Lauzon
In the event that the designated sole arbitrator cannot meet the parties within a reasonable delay, or in the event that the designated sole arbitrator has not yet rendered his decision on a previous grievance, the next arbitrator will be chosen.
In the event that all above mentioned arbitrators are unavailable, or should the parties mutually agree, the parties will request that the Department cf Labour of the Province cf Ontario designate an arbitrator.
Should the grievance concern a task, job assignment and/or work payment rates, the arbitrator shall be a competent Textile Engineer appointed from any of the following:
Charron, Bourgetel et Ass. Enrg,
Woods, Gordon & Co
or such other qualified Industrial Textile Engineer as may be agreed upon.
17
5.02	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
5.03	DECISION
The decisionofthe solearbitratorwillbe final and binding on the parties to the present agreement and all other employees concerned.
5.04	LIMITATION OF POWER:
The sole arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistentwfh the provisions of the agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any cf this agreement,
5.05	FEES AND EXPENSES:
The fees and expensesofthe solearbitratorwillbe paid on the basis cf one half by the Company and one half by the Union.
18
ARTICLE 6 DISCHARGE CASES
6.01	a)	A claim by an employeewho has completed his probationary
period that he has been unjustly dischargedshall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Vice President of Manufacturing or in his absence, the Personnel Manager of the Company within five (5) days after the employee ceases to work for the Company and the first step of the Grievance Procedure will be omitted in any such case.
The Company agrees to notify the Union in writing ol a discharge at the time of such discharge and if requested within twenty four (24) hours thereafter, will hold an interview conducted by the Personnel Manager before the discharge is considered final Prior to such interview, the Company will advise the employee’s Steward of the arrangement, and the Steward will be given the opportunity to be present at the commencement of the interview and, if the employee wishes, the Steward may remain throughout the interview.
b)	In case of a discharge, the Company will advise the employee’s available Steward or in his absence, the Chief Steward or a Union Representative who will be given an opportunity cfbeingpresent to discuss the circumstancesthat required disciplinary action.
i o
6.02	Such special grievance may be settled under the Grievance and Arbitration Procedures by:
a)	confirming die Company’s action in dismissingthe employee;
k) reinstatingthe employeewith full compensation for the time lost; or,
c)	by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable and mutually agreed upon.
20
ARTICLE 7
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
7.01	The Company agrees that there will be no lockout of employees and the Union agrees that there vail be no strike, slow-down, sit-down, or other action which will interfere with work or production. If any such action takes place, the Union agrees to instruct it’s members to carry out the provisions cf this agreement and to return to work and perform their duties.
21
ARTICLE 8 NIORnV
801	DEFINITION
For the purposes of this agreement, seniority means the total length of continuous service accumulated with the Company by an employee, in accordance vith the conditions provided hereunder in Paragraph 8.02,
8 02	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
a)	An employee vwll be considered on probation and will not be subj ectto the seniority provisions of the agreement until after he has completed four hundred and eighty (480) hours of work in the Bargaining Unit within a period of Six (6) consecutive calendar months (nine (9)months for employees on weekend shifts) excludingdepartmental shutdowns from the six (6) or nine (9) month period, from the date of hire. Upon completion of such probationary period the employee’s name will be placed on the seniority list cf his department, with seniority dating from his date of hire. The followingis a list of departments for seniority purposes.
•	1. YSm Preparation
•	2. Weave
•	3. Dye and Bleach
•	4. sewing
•	5. Shipping and Receiving
•	6. Maintenance (Services & Tradesmen)
22
b)	transfer into the Bargaining Unit:
1.	Any employee, who has worked on an occupation covered by the Bargaining Unit and who has been transferred before November 4th, 1987, to an occupation not covered by the agreement will be credited for senioritypurposes with his total length of continuous service accumulated within the Bargaining Unit if he is transferred again to an occupation covered by the present agreement.
It is understood that said employeewill have the right to use one cf the following options when so transferred:
•	Replace the least senior employee on the former occupation and shift that he held prior to his transfer outside the Bargaining Unit.
•	Replace the least senior employeeon the said former occupation and on the schedule of his choice.
8,02	b) Replace the least senior employee on the shift of his choice on any occupation he has fulfilled satisfactorily prior to his transfer outside the Bargaining Unit.
•	To be transferred on an open occupation or an occupation held by the least senior employee.
2.	Any employee, who works on an occupation covered by the Bargaining Unit and is given an opportunity after November 4th, 1987 to attend educational or training courses or any employee trained for a Non-BargainingUnit occupation, will be credited for seniority purposes with his total length of continuous service, if he should be subsequently transferred
into the Bargaining Unit within twelve (12) months cf completion cf said courses or training.
Prior to the commencement tf said course or training the Company will inform the Union in writing with the name cf the employee concerned as well asanestimatedpericdcf time cf the duration (maximum cf twenty-four (24)consecutive months) for said course or training.
3.	After November 4th, 1987, any employee who works on an occupation covered by the Bargaining Unit and who is subsequentlytransferred to an occupation not covered by this agreement will be credited for seniority purposes, with his total length cf continuousservice if he is transferred again into the BargainingUnit within twelve (12) months.
4.	In the case where an employee is reinstated into the Bargaining Unit as per the provisions cf 8.02 b) 1,2 and 3, said employee will remit to the Union a s u m equal to the amount cf Union dues for the period so spent up to a maximum cf 24 months outside the Bargaining Unit.
Said remittance will be in accordance with one cf the following choices made by said employee before his transfer outside the Bargaining Unit:
•	By cash.
•	By doubling his weekly Union dues.
•	By tripling his weekly Union dues.
24
8 03 Time lost in excess cf rune (9)months in the case of layoff and in excess of twelve (12) months m the event cf sickness or accident will not be counted in computing an employee’s seniority; however, in cases covered by the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act, tune lost during the period tf compensation will be counted
Theprovisions of this paragraph do not apply to probationary employees where time lost for any reason will not he counted in determining the completion of the probationary period
8 04 LOSS OF SENIORITY
An employee shall lose all seniority and his employment shall he terminated if he
a)	voluntarily quits the employ of the Company,
b)	is dischargedforjust cause and the dischargeis not reversed through the Grievance Procedure;
c)	fails for no acceptable reason within seven (7) days pursuant to notification sent by registered mail by the Company to report to work following a layoff or to advise the Company cf his intention to report to work pursuant to the said notification,
d)	has been laid off for a period cf time equivalent to the length of his seniority at the time he was laid off up to a maximum cf twenty-four (24) months, the whole subject to sub-paragraph (c) above,
25
e)
I)
8 05
is absent due to sickness or an accident for more than twelve (13)months in the casecf an employee with less than five (5) years seniority and twenty-four (24) months m the case of an employee having five (5) years or more seniority If an employee advises the Company at the end of the said twelve (12) oi twenty-four (24) month period, as the rase may he. and once every six (6) months thereafter of his intention to return lo wiirk, his seniority will not be broken These provisions do not apply in Worker's Compensation cases and seniority will not he broken during the period of compensation
The Company and the Union recognize tlie importance cf assiduity and timeliness, and the need for the Company lo apply reuse! lalile control over absences and tardiness in < ases of abuse
APPLICATION FOR SENIORITY:
Seniority rales are applied firstly to the employees of the department concemedbefore looking elsewhere in the plant Employee’s seniority while on lay off or retail from their original department will remain n their original department for job award purpose following a posting, for a period of one year ril accordance with Article 8 16 e) Should it be known that the occupation or assignment will not reopen because ol elimination or technological change, employee seniority will apply in the current (new) department
26
8 06 DEFINITION OF VACANCY:
Forpurposesof this Article 8, a vacancy results eitherfrom the normal turnover cf personnel, such as retirement, resignation, death, promotion, dismissal. demotion for cause or transfer of employees tojobs not covered by tliis Bargaining Unit or from an increase in the number of employees required on an occupation. The above does not imply that particular job vacancies must necessarily be filled. However, should thejob remain in operation, it shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.07.
8.07 IN THE CASE OF JOB VACANCIES, THE FOLLOWING PROCEDURE WILL APPLY:
a)	The Company will post thejob vacancy notice for a period cf seven (7) days on the departmental and central bulletin board and will remit a copy to the departmental steward However, the Company is not required to post any job vacancy where duration of the vacancy does not exceed sixty (60) working days A temporaryj ob vacancy is that which is defined under Article 8 11 ■ Temporary Transfers, subheadings “a” to “P The Company will notify the Union cf any unposted vacancy which exceeds sixty (60)working days.
b)	Employees who are interested in thejob vacancy will offer their candidacy by requesting a job bid form from their supervisor.
27
c)	If no employee m the department concerned has offered his candidar y or if no candidates are qualified in the department, the Company will consider from other employees who have applied
In the choice cf the employee to occupy the job vacancy, seniority shall prevail among employees who have offered their candidacy providing they are qualified to perform the occupation for which they are a candidate as outlined in Paragraph 8 09
e)	*1 Hie Company will post acknowledgementnotices for all candidates to anyjob vacancies The name of the successful applicant will be posted on a job award notice for any job vacancy for a period cf four (4) working days
•	The Company will advise the successfulapplicant of any job vacancy within one week from the expiry date cf the job posting period
•	The Company will send a copy cf the job posting slid the award ofthe successful candidate to the local union
•	2,Tie < ompany will place the successful applicant on the oc cupalion within fifteen (15) working days of the end ol the posting period except where such appointment would disrupt normal production flow and/or needs and the requirements <f quality or will not exceed the period cf time required to train replacements for the vat ancies occurring
28
Should the delay occur due to the requirements cf production flow or quality, the employee will be paid the rate of the job within the confines outlined in this Article 8 07 e) 2
8 07 e) • 3.The employee to be promoted to an occupation
outside of his present department has the option to be allowed up to four (4)hours maximum to view the occupation after which time his election must be made to either accept or decline the new occupation
f)	It is agreed that the Company may temporarily fill the job vacancy during the posting period without restriction.
g)	The employees who have hid for thejob vacancy as described in sub-paragraph (b) above are the only ones who may later file a grievance
h)	An employee who has thus been granted an occupation at an equivalent or lower .contractual wage rated job will not be permitted to bid to his former occupation or an equivalent or lower contractual rated job for any future job vacancy during the ensuing year.
In any cases when an employee has been granted an occupation at an equivalent or lower contractual wage rate job, he will then receive the contractual wage rate cf thejob lie has been granted if it is unmeasured or measured hourly, and if it is a pieceworkjob, he will then receive the guaranteed rate Of saidjob, or according to his performance
29
i)	In exceptional cases where employees who have been promoted and who cannot perform during the training period, a demotion or transfer can be considered only by mutual agreement cf both parties
:	When the Company, nevertheless, wishes to demote or
' transfer an employee for reasons of ill health, the employee ' will he given preference according to his seniority if it is an occupation which he has previously fulfilled satisfactorily m die same department or if he has not previously fulfilled this occupation ,if he is qualified to do the work This, however,
■	does not preclude the right of the employer who is demoted 01
transferred from lodging a grievance on (he basis that his demotion or transfer was unjustified
8-08 PREFERENCE OF ASSIGNMENT
In the case of preference of assignment requested by employees, the followingwill apply
a)	Wien a vacancy occurs on an occupation on a particular shift, a maximum cf one (l)change in assignment will be permitted upon request cf an employer working on the occupation and shift concerned on the basis cf seniority
b)	Tile preference of assignment as described above will lie granted to the employee currently working'on the occupation and shift concerned prior to filling the job vacancy
c)	The partiesagree that m no other on cumstanc.es will there be a preferenre cf assignment among the employees currently working on the same occupation
30
8 09 1 The following factors will be considered in evaluating an employee’s skill, competence and ability related to the performance of the work for which he is a candidate
a)	Physical requirements of the occupation and physical qualificationcf the candidate
b)	Results of aptitude tests
c)	Successful participation in training courses for the occupation for which he is a candidate These training coursesmay take the form cf theoretical courses, on-the-job training in the department or in the Training Centre
d)	Licenses where required
e)	For the jobs involving the handling of a crew, the ability to direct people shall also be considered
f)	To utilize an aptitude test as a factor cf consideration to evaluate an employee, the Company must
•	1 .Consider new experience since last test and allow an employee applying for a job to midertakethe same test as other candidates
•	2. Act the same as above m cases cf courses followed by an employee in relation with requirements cf posted occupation
It is understood that some of these above-mentioned factors will have more relative importance than others depending on the occupation which is vacant
8 09 2 Should the Company decide to give training courses to it's employees on various occupations, the employees who are chosen will be selected according to the provisions <f Paragraph 8 09 As much as it is feasible, the Company will consider seniority in the selection of instructor and trainees, should the chace not have been made, by seniority, the company will explain their decision
810	PERMANENTTRANSFERS
A permanent transfer is a permanent assignment cf an employee by the Company to a job vacancy in anothei occupation at the same wage rate
In the case <f permanent transfers, the same principles will apply as outlined above in Paragraph 8 09 An employee will cafry his seniority with him mimediately upon being transferred permanently to a different department
It is understood and agreed that an employee on the seniority list is not obliged to accept a permanent transfer
8 11	TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
A temporary transfer is a temporary assignment of an employee at the request of the Company to a temporary job vacancy m another occupation at a higher wage rate, at a lower wage rate or an equivalent wage rate
It is understood that temporary transfers from the weekday schedule to the weekend schedule and vice-versa shall be
32
voluntary with the exception that the least senior employee on the occupation and schedule in question being required to accept said transfer when the only alternative cf the Company is to lay off other employees.
Temporary transfers shall be effected for a maximum period of thirty (30) calendar days, except for one cf the following reasons, in which case the given movements will not exceed twelve (12) months. It is agreed that following a three (3) month period, at the employee’s request, be will he returned to liis original assignment provided he is not the most junior qualified and production circumstancesallow this direction to be taken.
8.11	Temporary transfers will be offered by seniority to qualified
employees when production circumstances allow this direction to be taken. It is understood, the least senior qualified employee involved in the above will be obliged to accept the transfer when no qualified, more senior employee agrees to take the transfer.
a)	to replace one or more employees who are taking their annual vacations;
k) to replace an employee absent as a result cf an industrial accident or illness, or non-industrial accident, or an employee absent on maternity leave;
c)	to replace a transferred employee, who at the request of the Company is working for another branch cf St. Lawrence Corporation, or for another company affiliated to or supplyingmaterials or services to the Company;
33
d)	to fill a,job because the Company has temporarily increased certain labour requirementsto meet a special situation.
It is understood that this paragraph does not imply that in cases cf normal vacancies and normal conditions that Articles 8.06 and 8.07 are not to be applied;
e)	to replace an employee who is receiving special training or preparation for a supervisory or technical position, or to replace an employee transferred as a result of the transfer of another employee who is receiving the said special training or preparation;
f)	to replace an employee absent on a special approved leave.
g)	Any employeewho istemporarily transferredunderthis article from the (7) seven day, (12) twelve hour schedule to the (5) five day,(8) eight hour schedule will maintain their (75) seventy five cent per hour add-on for all hours worked during the Monday to Friday work week. For any work performed on Saturday or Sunday, the (75) seventy five cent add-on is excluded and the employee would receive the regular rate cf pay at the applicable overtime rate.
The Company shall have the right to transfer employees on a temporary basis to fill temporaryjob vacancies as described in the preceding paragraph. Employees who are thus transferred will be remuneratedaccordingto the provisions of Paragraph 13.02.
The Company will not use a series of temporary appointmentsoutside thejob posting procedure to enable an
34
8.12
a)
b)
8.13
8.14
employee to accumulate experience in order to place him in a preferential position in the event of a permanent vacancy.
SHIFTWORK
If there is more than one shift in operation on any occupation, the employees will rotate every week unless there is a mutual agreement among the employee, the Company and the Union.
The departmental seniority of an employee who is currently on the occupation in that department will govern preference of shifts when a vacancy occurs on that occupation.
LAYOFFS - LESS THAN ONE (1) COMPLETE SHIFT
Subject to Paragraph 8.14 hereunder, in the event that it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees on an occupation in a department for less than one (1) complete shift, the employees on the occupation and shift concerned will be laid off in the reverse order of seniority accordingto the seniority list established in Paragraph 8,19. It is understood that employees so laid off will not have the right to displace other employees on other shifts or other occupations.
LAYOFFS - ONE (1) COMPLETE SHIFT TO FIVE (5) COMPLETE SHIFTS
In the event that it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees on an occupation in a department for one (1) complete shift to five (5) complete shifts for weekday employees or one (1) to three (3) complete shifts for weekend employees, or seven (7) day twelve (12) hour shift employees,
35
8.15
the employees on the occupation with die least seniority according to the seniority list will be subject to a layoff. The employee subject to a layoff will have the right to replace the most junior employee on an occupation in his department which he had previously fulfilled satisfactorily or on an equivalent or lower rated occupation in his department provided that he is qualified to perform the work.
Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, any employee qualified under 8,09 who is affected by a layoff for an aggregate of more than five (5) working days for die weekday employees or more than three (3) working days for weekend employees or seven (7) daytwelve (12)hour shift employees widiin asix month period may avail themselves firstly of die provisions of Article 8.14 and secondly of the provisions cf Article 8.15 insofar as being able to bump outside the employees own department. Any employee who avails themselves cf the provisions of these articles must be fully qualified to perform immediately (ninety percent performance) on the occupation to which they have exercised their rights. These periods will run from January 1 to June 30 and July 1 to December31.
LAYOFFS - MORE THAN FIVE (5)COMPLETE
SHIFTS
In the event that it becomes necessary to reduce the number cf employees on an occupation in a department for more than five (5) complete shifts, for weekday employees or more than three (3) complete shiftsfor weekend employeesor more than three (3) complete shifts for seven (7) day twelve (12) hour shift employees, the employee on the occupation with the least seniority according to the seniority list established in
36
Paragraph 8,19 will be subject to layoff. The employee subject to said layoff has tltfee options to replace:
a)	the most junior employee on an occupation which he has previously fulfilled satisfactorily or;
b)	a probationaryemployee.
Under Option B), the employee receives training and the occupation now becomes his regular occupation at which he must remain until fully qualified. Should the employee not select Options A) or B), he may;
c)	replace the most junior employee on an equivalent or lower rated occupation provided he is qualified to perform the work within a maximum delay of five (5) days for weekday employees or four (4) days for employees on weekend shiftsor Seven (7) day operation. With OptionC), if required, training will he given during the five (5) or four (4) day period.
This last disposition can only he invoked onceby an employee concerned on the occasion of each layoff and will only be applied to employees with six (6) months seniority or more.
An employee who is laid off, must indicate his intentions in regards to exercising his seniority rights within five (5) working days.
In csss where occupations and/or complete assignments are permanently eliminated due to a reduction of machinery or technological change, this last disposition which will be extended to thirty-five (35) working days, can only be invoked once by an employee concerned on the occasion of
37
each layoff and will he applied to employees who have at least completed their probationary period. The employee who is subsequently displaced due to a more senior employee exercising their rights under this paragraph, will be able to use this last disposition which for subsequent employees will also be extended to thirty-five (35) working days.
An employee who transfers to another department as a result of Article 8.15 will have his/her seniority transferred effective immediately when the transfer occurs. This does not eliminate the provisions of Article 8.16 (d).
N.B, It is understood that provisions of Article 8.13, 8.14, and 8.15 are to be applied within the employees regular schedule before being applied into the other schedule.
816 RECALLS TO WORK
The following procedures will apply in recalling employees to work following a layoff:
“Laid off“ being defined as not working on any occupation in the plant.
a)	TemporaryRecalls:
Laid off employees will be recalled to work in their order of seniority in their respective departments and on the posted occupation which they held prior to the layoff.
However, should such employees not be available, then laid off employees will he recalled to work in the order of seniority in their respectivedepartments, provided that they previously
38
fulfilled the occupation satisfactorilyand provided that they meet the provisions of Article 8.09.
Further, should such employees not be available, then laid off employees will be recalled to work in the order of seniority from other departments provided that they previously fulfilled the occupation satisfactorily,and provided that they meet the provisions cf Article 8.09.
B) Permanent Recalls
Laid off employees will be recalled to work in the order of seniority in their respective departments on an occupation which they have previously fulfilled satisfactorily and provided that they meet the provisions of Article 8.09.
However, should such employees not be available, then laid off employees wll be recalled to work in the order of seniority in their respective departments, provided that they meet the provisions cf Article 8.09.
Further, should such employees not be available, then laid off employees will be recalled to work in the order cf seniority from layoffs from other departments provided that they previously fulfilledthe occupationsatisfactorily, and provided that they meet the provisions cf Article 8.09.
Further, should such employees not be available, then laid off employees will be recalled to work in the order cf seniority from layoffs from other departments provided they meet the provisions cf Article 8.09.
39
c) However, if an employee is recalled to a new department, his seniority will be transferred effective immediately when the transfer occurs This does not eliminate the provisions of Article8,16 d).
New employees will not be hired until all laid off employees have been so recalled.
8.16 (c) However, it is understood that employees will not be obliged to accept recall to a work schedule or department different than the one they worked prior to their layoff except in the. case that the only alternative for the Company is to hire new employees, then it is understood that the junior employee involved in the above provisions, will be obliged to comeback to work.
It is understood that, when an occupation or shift is again formed, the original employees on this shift or occupation who may have been transferred or demoted to another occupation and while displacedto another job, have not been awarded a new occupation as a result of Article 8.07, wD_ return to the reorganized shift or occupation provided that this happens within a period of one (1) year following their transfer or demotion except where such transfer would disrupt normal production flow and/or needs cf the requirements cf quality, an employee in this situation will not be subject to the one year provision. ^	'
It is understood that the Company will not use these delays to allow employees on temporary transfers to accumulate preferential position on the reformed shift.
40
e)
8.17
8.18
8.19
a)
The employee originally on the shift and the occupation must be transferred back on his shift in the shortest possible delay. After the application of this paragraph, any untilled occupations on the reformed shift are considered "vacancies" as defined in Paragraph 8.06.
ft is understood that when an employee has worked on an occupation for more than (1) one year due to a transfer under Article 8.15, that occupation shall become his posted occupation.
NOTICE OF CHANCE OF ADDRESS
It is the duty cf employees to notify the Companypromptly cf any change of address. If an employee fails to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach such employees.
COMPENSATION
If it is established that the seniorityrights of an employeehave not been respected, the Sole Arbitrator will have the right to determine compensation to be paid by the Company, if any, up to the amount of earnings lost and change the seniority date of the employee if necessary.
SENIORITY LIST
A list of seniority standingswill be posted in each department, showing the names of each employee in that department together with his length of continuous servicewith the plant in
41
b)
(-■)
8.20
8.21
accordance with Paragraph 8.01. This list will bo revised every six (6) months. Copies of these posted lists shall be forwarded without delay (o the Union, and a copy remitted to Departmental Stewards and other plant Union Officers. After such posting, each such list shall become final with respect to the employees designated therein, except as to any employee who disputes, under the Grievance Procedure, the accuracy of his seniority date, or the seniority date of any other employee of his department designated therein, within thirty (80) working days after the list is posted. In any (‘vent, such grievance cannot dispute the accuracy of any previous final list
The accuracy cf the seniori y lists may be subject to revision at any time when such inaccuracy occurs as a result of typographical error.
The date of posting will be indicated on the seniority list
OCCUPATIONS NOT COVERED BY AGREEMENT
Appointments to occupations not covered by this agreement shall not be subject to the terms of this Article 8.
POSTING FOR FUTURE OPENINGS
When the possibility bf a permanent vacancy is anticipated cn an occupation in the Bargaining Unit for reasons such as attrition, when training is necessary in advance because of the length cf the training period or for any other reason mutually agreed to by the parties, future openings will he posted as an
42
occupation without assignment and shift. The posting and selection will be done according to the provisions cf Article 8.07 and 8.09.
When die training is completed, the employee will return to his or her former occupation. It is also understood that when such trainingis fully completed, said accumulated experience is to be taken into consideration in the event of any future layoffs.
When the occupation for which the employee was trained becomes open, it will be posted to allow preference cf assignment and shift only among employees currently on the occupation. Then the employee that was trained will be required to take the opening provided the employee has not, subsequentto the trainingperiod, been awarded ajob posting to an occupation that is a promotion over the future needs posting to wliich he was trained.
8.21	If more than one employee was trained in advance, seniority shall prevail with the least senior employee being required to accept the opening.
8.22	PERMANENT VACANCY WITH POSSIBILITY OF CANCELLATION
When die possibility cf a permanent vacancyis anticipated on an occupation in the Bargaining Unit for reasons such as: an employee having decided to take an earlyretirement, or in the ease of seriousillness or injury or for any other reason agreed between the parties offering a reasonable doubt of a permanent vacancy. Such vacancy will be submitted to the posting procedure outlined in 8.07, with the particularity that
43
should the employee having vacated the occupation return to work, employees being pr omoted shall return to the job they occupied before being promoted on account of this posting. Reasons justifying such a posting will he specified on the notice.
44
ARTICLE 9 PRODUCTIVITY
9.01	a) During the course of the present agreement, all changes
concerning tasks, work assignments piece-work rates or changes in the regular duties of an hourly paid occupation or changes from an hourly rated occupation to piece-workrated occupation, or vice versa and the establishment cf new rates, therefore shall be submitted by the Company to the Union.
b)	The Vice President of Manufacturing, upon request, at any time after the commencement cf change referred to in Paragraphs 9,02,9,03 and9.04, or at any time after a written request for a revision of element time values has been submitted under Paragraph 9.05, and until such time as the change is accepted or the written request for revision is settled, or a decision of the Sole Arbitrator is rendered, shall grant the Union permission to delegate a representative to observe the effects cf the said change and/or to carry out chronometrical tests himself for the purpose of verification provided the said representative does not hinder the proper functioning cf the department.
9.02	If a change contemplatedby the Company concerning a piece work occupation has to do with the revision of a measured work element or the addition f measured work element not already established or the complete elimination of a measured work element, the Company must at least one (1) working
45
week prior to the application of that change, advise the Union in writing cf the nature of the change.
If die change applies to a measured piece work occupation and affectsthe existingstandard time value by twenty percent (20%)or more, a period cf adaptation will be applied.
9.02	The period cf adaptation will have a maximum duration cf four (4) weeks. During this period, the employees concerned will work under the new conditions. For wage payment purposes, the difference between the preceding and new standard time values will be applied progressively in five (5) equal weekly increments: one increment at the beginning of each adaptation week, and one last increment at the beginning of the fifth week At the conclusion of the period of adaptation, the full revised standard time value will be in effect for wage payment purposes.
When the change has been put into effect by the Company, and the Union does not agree with such change, a review will be made by a representative cf the plant's Industrial EngineeringDepartmentand the representative cf the Union. Such review will include an inspection of the job specification and summary data which formed the basis for the change. If such review does not settle the grievance,the Union may refer the said change to the SoleArbitratormentioned below for his decision.
Only the work elements changed and calculations affected by the change will be subjectto review by the Sole Arbitrator. If no request is made in writing by the Union to submit such
46
change to the Sole Arbitrator witliin forty-five(4.5)days after the date it was put into effect, the change shall be deemed to be accepted.
9.03	If a change contemplated by the Company conceminga piece work occupation has to do with a revision of a measured work element or the addition of a measured work element, or the complete elimination of a measured work element because cf the installation of different machinery, or if an hourly or piece work element because of the installation cf different machinery or if a non-measured hourly occupation is to be placed by the Company on measured piece work, or if a new occupation is introduced,the Company must, at least two (2) working weeks prior to the application of such change, advise the Union in writing of the nature of the change. On the date that such change takes place, it will be consideredas under a trial period, the conditions cf wluch are defined in Paragraph 9,06 and the following paragraphs.
9.04	All changes made by the Company concerning piece work occupations other than those referred to in Paragraphs 9.02 and9,03 are to be settled, if grievances arise, by the following procedure:
STEP NO. I
A review cf the grievance is to la* made by an Industrial Engineering representative of the Company and a representative of the Union.
47
Such review will include an inspection of the j ob specification and test data which form the basis for the change. The representative cf the Union may also, by arrangement with the Industrial Engineering representative cf the Company, visit the premises where the grievance arose. Notice cf the nature cf such change will be given to the Union in writing.
If no grievance is made as a result of any changes referred to in this paragraph within twenty (20) working days after the change is to be put into effect, the change shall be deemed to be accepted.
STEP MO. 2
If the review provided in Step One above does not provide an immediate solution to the grievance, joint tests will be made by an Industrial Engineering representative of the Company and a representative of the Union to settle the grievance on the change concerned.
Any joint tests shall be <f the same nature and to the same extent as the tests upon which the change was originally based. The extent of the joint test called for may be varied by the parties by mutual agreement.
If the results of the joint tests made by the Company and the Union are such as not to affect the standard tine value by plus or minus 4% or less, no change is to jbe made in the standard time value.
If the results cf the saidjoint tests affect the standard time value by greater than plus or minus 4%, the standard time value will be so revised and put into effect.
48
If the results of the saidjoint tests call for an increase in the standard time value by greater than 4%, retroactivity is to he paid back to the date f the change.
If the parties, after having completed the joint tests in this Step Two, and after having studied their findings cannot agree on the results cf the saidjoint tests, the Union may refer the said change to the Sole Arbitrator mentioned below.
STEP NO. 3
The Sole Arbitrator shall review the change made by the Company and shall make tests of the same nature and to the same extent as the tests upon which the change was originally based.
If the results cf the tests made by the Sole. Arbitrator are such as not to affect the standard time value by plus or minus 4% or less, no change is to he made in the standard time value.
If the results of the test made by the Sole Arbitrator affect the standard time value by greater than plus or minus 4%, the standard time value will be so revised and put into effect.
If the results f the test made by the SoleArbitrator call for an increase in the standard time value by greater than 4%, retroactivity is to be paid back to the date of the change.
9.04	Step Three:
It is recognized that due to their nature, changes referred to in this Paragraph 9.04 may be frequent and continuing revisions f such changes to reflect modifications in conditions may be called for at any time.
49
9.05	a) If no change is introduced by the Company, but if in the opinion of the Union, a change has occurred of the type covered in Paragraph 9.04, in caseof an unsettled complaint, a grievance may be submitted for settlement, including arbitration if necessary, in accordance with the terms of Paragraph 9.04.
b)	If no change is introduced by the Company cf the type covered in Paragraphs 9.02 and 9.03, but if in the opinion cf the Union a time cf one or several elements cf a standard time value requires modification, the following procedure will apply.
1.	When one or more element times of a standard time value which have not been previously submitted to the Sole Arbitrator have been in effect and a period cf one (1) year has elapsed from the date of the last acceptance by the Union, it may request a revision in the said standard time value. If one or more element times <f a standard time value have been arbitrated, this will not preclude the balance cf the element times of the said standard time value not arbitrated, from the application of this paragraph. If one or more element times of a standard time value have been previously submitted to the Sole Arbitrator, but if in the opinion of the Union a change has occurred, which had not been covered by the decision of the Sole Arbitrator (or submitted as a change by the Company) and which in their opinion affects the standard time value such contention may be submitted by the Union to the Sole Arbitrator for his decision. In such a case, the burden cf proof falls on the Union.
so
2.	Within forty-five (45) days from the written request cf the Union for a revision f element time values, both parties will meet to attempt to finally settle the request. Failing a mutually satisfactory settlement, the request for revision by the Union may be referred to arbitration according to the dispositions cf Paragraph 9,11. When such a request is made for arbitration, then all the element times for a standard time value except such element times as have been previously arbitrated shall be referred to the SoleArbitrator for decision.
9,05	b) 2. If, within the said delay tffortyfive (45) days, the Union does not submit it’s request for revision to arbitration, the said request for revision will be deemed to have been abandoned.
3.	Following a request for arbitration made by the Union, according to Paragraph 1, if the Arbitrator finds a difference from the standard time value in effect cf 4% or more, then and only then, shall the Arbitrator decide that a change in the standard time value be put into effect in accordance with his observations. If the results cf the review are made by the Arbitrator, call for an increase in the standard time value by greater than 4%, retroactivity is to be paid back to the date of the Union’s request for revision.
For all requests for revisions which are raised during the first three (3) months following the signature of the Collective Labour Agreement, the retroactivity, if any, will be limited to a four (4) week period following the date the request for revisions was submitted.
51
9.06	Following the date that the changes referred to in Paragraph 9.03 above take place, a trial period of twenty (20) working days will follow.
9.07	During the trial period of twenty (20) working days, the employees concerned will work under the new conditions and be paid accordingto the new rate and during the said twenty (20) working days, their average hourly earnings will not be lower than their straight time average hourly earnings during the last four (4) weeks while the employees were working on piece work during the previous six (6) months. In no case shall this guarantee cf averagehourly earnings extend beyond the said twenty (20) working days.
9.08	At any time during the trial period the Company and the Union will meet to review the results obtainedduring the trial period and will try to agree on the change.
9.09	Prior to the end cf the sixth (6th) week following the completion cf the trial period, if there is no agreement on the change, die Union must notify the Company and the Sole Arbitrator (referred to in Paragraph 9.11 hereafter) thereof in writing by registered mail and the change will be referred to the Sole Arbitrator for his decision. The parties may refer the change to the Sole Arbitrator prior to the completion of the trial period by mutual consent.
52
If such a notice is not sent during the said trial period or prior to the end of the sixth (6th) week following the completion cf the trial period by the Union, and if no notice is sent by the Company within the same period of it’s intention to abandon the proposed change, the said change will be considered as final and accepted by both parties.
9.10	In cases where the change is submitted to the Sole Arbitrator, the Sole Arbitrator must render his decision within eight (8) additional working weeks from the date a change was submitted to him. In any event, the change will remain in force until the final decision of the Sole Arbitrator has been rendered.
9.11	The Sole Arbitrator for the purpose of this article and the duration of this agreement will be an Industrial Engineer to be chosen by mutual agreement of the parties.
9.12	The Sole Arbitrator must, before starting each arbitration, make a sworn declaration stating that he has no pecuniary interest in the question, that he is not personally associated with, or interested in, a firm or company that manufactures textiles, and that he is not by reason of his business affairs, or any other circumstancesinfluenced or prejudiced in favour cf either employees or employers.
53
9.13	Each cf the parties to this agreement will bear its own expenses of arbitration. The fees and expenses cf the Sole Arbitrator will be paid for on the basis of one half by the Company and one half by the Union.
9.14	a) All grievances arising out cf Articles 9 and 10 shall be
submittedto die SoleArbitrator for decision. In any ease, the decision of the sole arbitrator must be witliin the framework of the Company’s work measurement plan and wage payment methods, and further, the Sole Arbitrator shall not have the power to amend, alter, or modify the terms of this agreement.
b) For the purposes cf Articles 9 and 10 of the CollectiveLabour Agreement, one of the following firms will act as arbitrator as called upon:
Woods Gordon & Co.-Charron, Bourgetel et
Ass. Enrg.-Leatham Simpson.
9,15	The decision of the Sole Arbitrator will be final and binding on the Union and the Company, and all employees or groups concerned. In so far as wages are concerned, the decision wll be retroactive to the commencement cf the trial period should the SoleArbitrator so decide, and the amount cf retroactive adjustments, if any, shall be determined by the said Sole Arbitrator.
54
9.16
9.17
9.18
9.19
If, at any time during the trial period, the Company decides to abandon the proposed change, an adjustment cf wages must be made in sucji a manner as to ensure that for the time during which the trial period has been in force, averagehourly earnings for each employee immediately concerned are equivalent to 100% cf the averagehourly earnings cf that employee during the last four (4)weeks while the employee was working on piece work during the previous six (6) months.
When the company advises the Union cf a change in task under Paragraph 9.03, it will give to the Union all pertinent information and all necessary explanations concerning such change or new occupation.
Upon request, the Company will, at the commencement of a trial period, make available to a designated representative of the Union for examination, thejob specification data referring to the establishment of the task which has been placed on such trial period. It is understood and agreed that suchjob specification data is a confidential company document, is to be returned to the company within a reasonable delay, and is not to be retained beyond the conclusionf such trial period.
Upon request, the Company will, at the commencement of a trial period, supply in writing to the Union, the average hourly earnings of each employee placed under such trial period during the last four (4) weeks wliile the employee was working on piece work during the previous s i (6) months. The Union will also be provided in writing, if they so request, with the average hourly weekly earnings of said employees during such trial period.
55
9.20	Grievances arisingfrom changes in measured or unmeasured hourly paid occupations or a regular assigned increase in the scheduled volume cf work cf such an hourly paid occupation may also be submitted to the Sole Arbitrator for decision witliin forty five (45) days following the occurrence of the circumstances giving rise to the grievance or knowledge of same, as the case may be. In this case, however, the Sole Arbitrator shall determine whether or not the changed occupation or a regularly assigned increase in die scheduled volume of work of such an hourly paid occupation requires more than a normal daily work performance. The Sole Arbitrator shall decide the content of a normal daily work performance and the Company will modify the content cf the occupation accordingly. A normal daily work performance may be defined as the average amount cf work a qualified employee working at normal pace (as defined in Article 10), under standard conditions. can produce over a day.
9.21	It is understood that all changes which affect die standard time value will be taken into account in the standard time value for die occupation.
9.22	Changes in piece work rates shall be handled in accordance with the provisions cf this article where applicable.
56
WAGE VYMENT METHODS
10.01 MEASURED DIRECT OCCUPATIONS
a)	Measured direct occupations are to be paid on the basis of piece work rates, expressed in dollars (or cents) per production or machine unit, derived from work measurement and based on “objective hourly rates”, appearing on the rate lists for piece work occupations, annexed to this agreement, except the employees under probationary period (Paragraph
8.02	ofthe CollectiveAgreement).
b)	Measurement is based on the execution cf each element cf work at a reference pace under usual and normal operation conditions. The reference pace is defined as “walking three miles per hour over smooth, level ground without load”.
An employee on measured work with a one hundred percent (100%)work assignment, including allowances for rest and personal needs (varying from 10% to 25% of work time), normally exceeds the reference pace described above by 25%.
c)	The piece work rates are calculated so that a one hundred percent (100%)work assignment will give an employee the opportunity to earn the objective rate.
For any delay or time loss beyond his control, and for which he is not responsible, the frequency and length cf which are not foreseeable (and which have not been taken into account in the machine efficiency calculations), the measured direct employee is paid the objective rate.
57
I Ie reports these delays and time losses without delay and has (hem signed arid approved by his Department Foreman, or his assistant. Such me, for example: delays resulting from waiting for work, breakdown and maintenance cf machinery, power failure, etc.
e)	The total piece work earnings will be calculated weekly for each employee on a measured direct occupation, and he is guaranteed that his average hourly earnings for the week will not be lower than ninety percent (90%)of the objective rate for his occupation.
10.01 e) Each employee will he informed of his guarant eed rate.
Each week, a sheet showing the following information for the preceding week will be posted in the department:
•	Occupation and employee’s name
•	Objective rate
•	Horn s worked
•	Average hourly piece work earnings
•	Total earnings (excluding shift and overtime premiums)
•	Percent pay performance (in relation to objective rate)
•	Payments for delays (included in the total earnings amount)
Some occupations previously paid as measured direct occupationsmay be reclassified by the Company as measured indirect occupations, and paid according to provisions in Paragraph 10.02.
58
Also, some occupations previously paid as measured indirect or as unmeasured occupations may be reclassified by the Company as measured direct occupations, and paid accordingto 10.01 a) above.
In either case, the Company nail submitto the Union, the data pertinent to such changes at least two weeks prior to die change, and will meet with the Union Representatives on request to explain the change.
10.02 MEASURED INDIRECT OCCUPATIONS
a) Measured indirect occupations are to be paid hourly rates appearing on the rate lists fcr measured hourly paid occupationsannexed to this agreement, except die employees under probationary period (Paragraph 8.02 of the Collective Agreement), and except otherwise provided in Paragraph
10.03	below.
The occupations mentioned in paragraph 10.01 F) above, reclassified from measured direct to measured indirect, are also to be paid on tliis same basis.
Some previously unmeasured occupations, which may be judged measurable by the Company, are also to be paid on this same basis when they have been measured.
b) The employees on measured indirect occupations are to be given around one hundred percent (100%)work assignments as described in preceding Paragraph 10.01 b).
59
WORK ASSIGNMENT
10.03
a)	Experienced employees on measured occupations, direct or indirect shall he given around one hundred percent (100%) work assignments, as defined in the preceding Paragraph 10.01 b).
It is understood that, in the case of employees on measured direct occupations and piece work payment, there is no obligation on the Company to offer such a work assignment, when the assignmentis not availableor when the employee is not capable, or willing of handling such an assignment.
b)	/In individual employee with a physical handicap may request a work assignment lower than one hundred percent (100%) on a measured occupation. The Company will consider each such request individually.
If the request is reasonableand the employee is on a measured direct occupation, he will he given a work assignment hetween 60% and 100%, asnear as possible to his request and on his regular occupation if practical, and he will he paid his piece-work earnings. If the employee is on a measured indirect occupation, and his request is reasonable, he will be given a work assignmentbetween 80% and 100% as near as possible to his request and on his regular occupation, and if practical, and he will be paid according to his assignment.
At certain processes, due to the number of productive mite, isolation of equipment, etc., it may he impossible or impractical to implement a reduced work assignment cf an employee on such a process without reducing the volume tf
60
production to the next process. Also an employee may not be capable of handling a work assignment between 90% and 100% on a measured direct occupation. In such cases, an occupational transfer for the employee will be considered in line with Article 8,10 (Permanent transfers).
Such requests for a reduction in work assignments are limited to one per year for each employee and to one per occupation per month.
c)	In the case cf an employee on a measured occupation, direct or indirect, who in the opinion ofthe Company, is not capable or willing of handling a 100% work assignment, the same conditions as in Paragraph 10.03 b) above for a reduced assignment or transfer will apply. However, before proceeding in this manner, the Company will advise the Union, giving the reasons for the contemplated change.
10.03	d) When an employee on a measured direct occupation, who in
the opinion of the Company is continually incapable of producing at the present guaranteed rate of 90%, his guaranteed rate will then become 80% of the objectiverate of his occupation.
However, before proceeding in this manner, the Company will advise the Union giving the reasons for such change.
Such case will be individually reviewed every six (Vlhnonths following the date of change.
10.04	MEASURED TIME VALUES
The measured time value is expressed in minutes and is the time required (o perform an operation at a pace and with
61
allowances for rest and personal needs as defined in paragraph 10.01 b) under standard conditions.
The measured time values will not be changed except if a change in the conditions result in an increase or a decrease in the work content, or if in the opinion of both parties an error has been made that would require an adjustment.
Checks are made to make sure that conditions are maintained in conformity with those used to calculate a measured time value.
10.05	INFORMATION
A copy cf the job specification in force will be made available in the department and a copy of such will be given to the local Union President. If the Company makes a change concerning an occupation, the job specification will be also made availablein the department and a copy cf such will he given to the local Union President.
The method cf calculation cf wage payment may be checked by the employee personally or by his’representative.
62
ARTICLE II
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
11.01 a) Five (5) Days Schedule
The normal work week shall be five (5) days of eight (8)hours continuous operation as per the following:
i)	1st Shift: 23h00 Sunday to 07h00 Friday
ii)	2nd Shift: 15h00 Monday to 23h00 Friday
iii)	3rd Shift: 07h00 Monday to 15h00 Friday
11.01b) Weekend Schedule
The normal work week shall he two (2) days of twelve (12) hours continuous operation as per the following:
i)	4th Shift: 23hOO Friday to 1 lliOO Saturday
23h00 Saturday to 1 lhOO Sunday
ii)	5th Shift: llhOO to23h00 Saturday & Sunday
C)	Stationary Engineers
StationaryEngineers will work the following:
07h00 to 19h00 - Over the shift cycle
19h00 to 07h00 - Over the sliift cycle
D)	Seven Day Schedule (Four (4) Shifts)
19h00 to 07h00 • Overthe shift cycle 07h00 to 19h00 - Overthe shift cycle
63
The working hours may be modified in order to comply with special requirements. It is understood that during the term cf this agreement any changes under this paragraph will be made only after agreement with the Union.
It is understood, however, that nothing in this agreement shall be construed or interpreted to be a guarantee by the Company of a specified number of hours of work or shifts per day or days of weekend as well as providingannual, weekly or daily guaranteed wages.
This clause will not preclude the Company from having employees work longer voluntary hours than specified above, provided that the overtime provision is observed.
11,02	a) Work performed on Saturday and Sunday shall be paid at a rate cf time and one half the employee’s regular rate.
P) Employees working under the weekend shift operation schedule will get a premium cf fifty percent (50%) for Saturday and Sunday.
c)	If the Company decides to work on a seven day operation, the Saturday and Sunday premium will be at 50% for all employees.
^ All employees covered by the terms cf this agreement shall he entitled for all hours worked in excess cf the regular daily hours specified in Article II to a premium of 50% of either their regular rate or their average hourly piece-work or wage incentive plan earnings, as the case may be. It is understood that no pyramiding cf premiums will apply.
64
e) Overtime for the Saturday or Sunday is fifty percent (50%) premium over and above weekend premiums after 8 or 12 hours, as the case may be.
11.02	f) Any weekend shifts employ eeswho work in excess of eight (8) continuous hours on any regular day, Monday to Friday, will be paid time and one half for the hours above eight (8). For any weekend shifts employees who work more than forty (40) hours per week, including their regular weekend hours will be paid time and one half for hours worked above forty (40) hours. It is understood that hours for which a premium of fifty percent (50%)is paid for all hours above regular daily hours till not be included as part of the above forty (40) hours total.
Except employees working under Seven (7) day operation scheduleor weekend operation schedule, it is understood that Sunday work will be voluntary.
11.02g) Employees working in the Weave Room, and Creige Inspection will operate on a seven (7) day, four (4) shift schedule, working twelve (12) hour shifts.
The employee’s regular rate tiilL apply for all regular daily hours worked.
There will be a fifty percent (50%) premium paid for all hours worked in excess of regular daily hours.
There will also be a fifty percent (50%) premium paid for hours worked above the forty-four (44) per week. It is understood that hours for which a premium of fifty percent (50%) is paid for all hours above regular daily hours vwll not be included as part cf the above forty-four (44) hours total.
65
All employees on this scheduleprior to January 5,1992 in one of these working areas will receive a seventy-five cents (75) add-on for all hours worked. This will remain in effect for all present employees who remain on this schedulein one of these departments
New employees hired after January fifth (5th), 1992, will not receive this seventy-five cents (75) add-on.
Overtime Hours
Overtime hours will be voluntary on the (7) day schedule. (Subjectto re-negotiationif problems arise.)
11.03 a)	Work performed by Stationary Engineers and Watch Keepers
on Saturday and Sunday shall be paid at a rate cf time and one half the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay.
b) Overtimeperformed on Saturday and Sunday will be at fifty percent (50%)premium over Saturday premium and fifty percent (50%) over Sunday premium after8 or 12 hours, as the case may be.
11.04	Hours of work for which an employee receives premium compensation under this Article or Schedule U, plant holidays shid] not be counted as part of the normal workweek and also as hours for which a premium cf time and one half or double time is paid
66
11.05	OVERTIMEWORK
a)	Any employee may refuse to work overtime provided he has found a suitable replacement, who is qualified to perform die work and notifies his Department Supervisorin advance.
b)	Between May 15th and Labour Day, any work performed after 23h00 Friday, shall be voluntary, except for Stationary Engineers, Watch Keepers and weekend shift employees. The employees who avail themselves cf the provisions cf this Paragraph will advise their supervisor forty eight (48) hours in advance. This forty eight (48) hour notice will only be required if the Company has advised the employees previously that it intends to operate on weekend work, otherwise the said notice will not be required.
During the weeks if Thanksgiving and Good Friday, any work performed after 23h00 Friday will be voluntary as per the above paragraph.
A permanent list, indicatingthe names cf employees willingto perform work during the voluntary weekend period will be kept in each department by Management. Such list will indicate the preference of the employees. An employee may have his name inscribed or deleted from said list the last Friday cf every month.
Other than the cases provided for above, the reasons that would excuse an employee from working during regular hours would excuse him from working overtime.
67
c)
d)
First : Second:
First:
Second:
11.05 d)
No employee shall be required to work in excess cf eight (8) hours overtime in one (1) week.
l.Five (5JDays Schedule - Overtime
When overtime is necessary on this schedule it will be offered as follows. This does not mean every absence will require overtime to be used.
First 4 Hours :
ask outgoing shift in department on the occupation. ask outgoing shift in department qualified by seniority.
Second 4 Hours:
ask incoming shift in department on the occupation. ask incoming shift in department qualified by seniority.
Third,' Transfer from within the shift at Management’s discretion if overtime is needed, the overtime is now on the occupation where the employee has been transferred from and is to be filed by starting the above procedureover again.
Fourth: Ask departmental weekend employee qualified by seniority.
68
If ihe company is unable to fill tin* full 8 hours by the above, the weekender may be used for die full 8 hours.
It is understood that any grievance arising under the I I HKD step cf this procedure would be invalidated if there is less than one (I) hours notice of an absence prior to the shift start-lip.
69
ARTICLE 12
REPORTING FOR WORK
12.01	If an employee reports for work at the regularly scheduled time for his shift, he shall be entitled to a minimum cf four (4) hours work or pay at his regular hourly rate, unless previously notified by the company not to report for work. This provision shall not apply when lack cf work is due to conditions beyond the control of the Company, or when the employee is returning to work followingan absence.
12.02	The Company wil endeavourto give eight (8) hours noticeif work is not available on an employee's scheduled shift.
70
ARTICLE 13
WAGE RATES AND CALL-IN PAV
13.01	a) The ratesof wages as outlined in Schedule I attached hereto
shall he effective for the duration of this agreement.
b) Probationary Employee:
After sixty (60) working days the employee will receive the contractual rate of pay for (he occupation performed by him.
The Maintenance Department probationary employees arc excluded from this agreement..
At the discretion of the Department Supervisor, if the employee becomes qualified before, the probationary period ends, the employee will be paid at the contractual rate of (lie occupation.
13.02	When an employee is directed by the Company to work in another job classification for which he/she is recognized as being qualified*, and performs at ninety (90%) percent or better, he/she shall receive their former average unless the earnings on the new job are higher; in which ease the earnings of the newjob will be paid. An employee performing less than ninety (90%) percent on the new job shall receive his/her guaranteed ninety (90%) percent earnings tor that job.
I Iowever, if the employee is not qualified on the job to which he/she has been directed, he/she will be paid their average rate of earnings unless the rate for the new job is higher, in which case the rate for the newjob will be paid
71
*
13.03
Generally speaking, qualified means that the employee has previously satisfactorilyfulfilled and has worked at least one time on that occupation in the last six (6)months.
Whenever an employee is subject to layoff and he is using his right to displace, he will then receive the rate for such other job.Referto Schedule I (E).
An employee called at home outside his regularly schedule hours cf work shall be paid not less than the equivalent of four (4) hours pay at straight time rate, provided that the employee accepts such work as is available, in order to qualify for such pay. It is understood that if such a call occurs between 23h00 and 07h00, said employee will receive time and one half his regular rate for these four (4) hours.
It is understood that such employee must have left the property cf the Company, and has completed his regular hours cf work scheduled that same day.
In the case where an employee is called to work before his regular shift for less than four (4) hours, he wil be paid the number cf hours worked at the rate provided in this Article if applies.
In the case where an employee is caUsi to work before his regular shift and if for reasons such as lack cf materials or abnormal working conditions, that employee is sent back home before the end of his regular shift, all hours worked before his regular daily hours will be paid at the rate of time and a half his regular pay.
72
13.04
13.04
13.05
It is also understood that hours for which an employee receives a premium under the provision of this Article 13.03, will not he countedforthe purpose of calculatingthe overtime premium provided in Article 11.
An employee who is required for jury service will be paid, for each day of such service, the difference between either his regular hourly rate, or his average hourly earnings if he is working under the wage incentive plan for the number of hours he normally works on his regular shift, and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and the amount of pay received or to he received.
The calculations of his pay will be figured on the basis of the employee’s pay for a complete normal period of work for the shift to which he belongs during the last week in which he did such work before he was called tojury service. The provisions enumerated above will also apply to witness pay in cases where it may not otherwise he retrievable.
This Paragraph 13.04 will not apply where an employee voluntarily seeks jury service,
COMBINED OCCUPATION
An employee, whose regular daily assignment is to work concurrently on more than one occupation is recognized as working on a combined occupation. Such employee will receive for the entire shift, the highest hourly contractual rate provided he has worked at least one (1) hour on that occupation for the eight (8)hour shift, or ninety (90) minutes for the twelve (12) hour shift.
73
ARTICLE 14 SHTFT PREMIUM
14.01	a) The Company agrees to pay a shift premium cf $0,17 forthe third or night shift for hours worked between 23h00 and 07h00 provided that such premium wil not form part cf the employee’s regular hourly rate for the purpose of incentive, overtime or any other premium or bonus compensation.
b) The Company agrees to pay a shift premium cf $0,12 per hour for the second, or afternoon shift, for hours worked betweenl5h00 and23h00, provided that such premium will not form part of the employee’s regular hourly rate for the purposes of incentive, overtime, or any other premium or bonus compensation.
ARTICLE 15
PLANT HOLIDAYS. VACATION WITH PAY AND INSURANCE FLAN
15.01	The plant holidays, vacations with pay and insurance plans applicable under this agreement are set forth in Schedule H, in, and IV hereof.
74
ARTICLE 16 BULLETIN BOARD
16.01	a)	The Company agrees to provide two (2)notice boards located
as at present, upon which the Union may post notices, subject to the following conditions:
i)	any such notice shall have received the written approval cf the Company prior to posting;
ii)	no change shall be made in any such notice, either by the Company or by the Union after it has received the approval of the Company;
iii)	notices shall be posted only on notice boards provided by the Company for the use of the Union;
iv)	the subjectmatter of any notices posted shall be restricted to notices of meetings, of the results of elections pertaining to the mill, or of recreational or social activities.
b) The Union agrees that it will not distribute or post any pamphlets, advertising or political matter, cards, notices or any other kind cf literature, within the mill or its appurtenances, except as provided in this agreement.
75
ARTICLE 17 BEREAVEMENT
17.01 a) WEEKDAY EMPLOYEES
a) In the event cf a death in the employee’s immediate family (mother, father,sister,brother,mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law,brother-in-law)grandparents1 daughter-in-law, son-in-law) the Company agrees to grant a paid leave of absence of three (3) days.
In the event the death is of a spouse, a son or daughter, or common law spouse, the Company agrees to grant a paid leave of absence of five (5)days.
It is understood that if one cf the days referred to above fails on a paid holiday or duringthe employee’s annual vacation or plant shutdown, this or these days will be excluded.
The Company will grant a one (1) day leave of absence, the day of funeral, in the event of death of a grandchild, or the spouse of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law. An additional maximum of two (2) days cfleave cf absencewithout pay will be granted if so requested by the employee concerned.
76
17.01 A) WEEKDAY EMPLOYEES
b) An individual will be allowed three (3) working days off because cf death in the immediate family (as defined), the third day being the day cf the funeral. Saturdays and Sundays do not require payment (under normal circumstances) and reduce the required working days being off to one.
Abnormal circumstances that may require an additional day off and the payment for (in instances that involve a Saturday and/or Sunday) would be in the case of an individual having to take additional time under written instructions hom a doctor, or in the case of legal matters, that cannot be postponed, a lawyer.
An individual having been scheduled for work on a Saturday or Sunday and who is restricted from doing so because of a death in the immediate family, would be paid for such lost time at his/her regular rate.
c) For the Stationary Engineers a day shall constitute cf 12 hours.
B) WEEKEND EMPLOYEES
An employee shall be permitted time off front work for the purpose of attendingthe funeralof his wife, husband, mother, father, sister, brother, son or daughter, daughter-in-law,
77
son-in-law, common-law spouse, grandparents, up to a maximum cf two (2) days.
The Company will grant aone (l)day leaveof absence,in the event cf a death cf a grandchild or the spouse of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
When any of such days falls on an employee’s scheduled working day, he shall be paid bereavement allowance based on twelve (12) hours for each day at time and one half at the wage rate for the hourly employee’s classification as set out in the scheduleattached to the Collective Labour Agreement, or if on piecework for the current period set out in the schedule attached to the CollectiveLabour Agreement.
The Company must be supplied with necessary information pertaining to the reasons for such leave cf absence.
17 01 C) SEVEN (7) DAY, TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT EMPLOYEES
An employee shall be permitted time off from work for the purpose of attending the funeral of his mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparents,	daughter-in-law and
son-in-law up to a maximum of two (2) days. An additional one (1) day leave cf absence will be granted without pay if so requested by the employee concerned.
78
In the event the death is cf a spouse, a son or daughter, or common-law spouse, the company will grant a paid leave cf absence of three (3) or four (4) days according to the employee’s schedule on that particular week.
The company will grant a one (l)day paid leave cf absence in the event of death of a grandchild or the spouse of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
When any of such days falls on an employee’s scheduled working day, he shall be paid bereavement allowance based on twelve (12) hours for each day at the wage rate for the hourly employees classification as set out in the schedule attached to the Collective Labour Agreement or if on piece work forthe current period set out in the schedule attached to the Collective LabourAgreement.
The company must be supplied with necessary information pertainingto the reasons for such leave cf absence.
d)	Intheeventafadeathintheemployee’simmediatefamily (as defined) during winter, and a delayed burial to the spring months, an employee will be granted an additional paid day cf leave for the burial, if so requested by the employee.
79
ARTICLE 18 UNION SECURITY
18.01	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of an employee, upon receipt of a signed authorization card in the form set out in Schedule V of this agreement, the Union dues as authorized by the Union.
Any changes shall be given in writing to the Company seven (7) days prior to the effective date of said deduction.
18.02	From the wages received by an employee, the Union dues will be deducted weekly on a uniform basis, but the Company will remit monthly, the amount deducted to the Quebec Office of the United Food and Commercial Workers, whose receipt therefore shall be considered as a discharge to the Company cf all liability for the amount so deducted. The Union will keep the Company harmless of any claims by an employee.
18.03	In the event that for a period as mentioned in Paragraph 18.02 an employee does not earn wages, the Company will not deduct Union dues. The obligation will be to recommence deductionsfrom the first pay period following the employee’s return to work.
80
18 04 As a condition cf employment, all employees must sign an authorization form cf an equal amount cf union dues as set forth in ScheduleV cf this agreement
18.05	The remittance to the Uniort cf the deductions made under this article will be accompanied by a statement showing the names of each employee from whose pay such deduction has been made
18.06	Depending on the Company’s capability, once per week, for the previous, week, the Companywill remit to the Pres identcf Local Union, a list indicating the following information
, pertatrupg to it’s new, laid off and recalled employees
1	Name
2	Department,
3	Occupation
'	4 Date of employment
,5 Date cf layoff and seniority 6 Date, of recall (if applicable)
81
19.01
19.02
19.03
a)
ARTICLE 19 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
The Company may grant leave of absence to any employee for legitimatepersonal reasons. Any leave of absence granted by the Company shall he limited to three (3) months. Subject to the provisions of this agreement, the employee may return to his regular job when the leaveof absence expires, if he is still qualified and has the necessary seniority.
An employee on the seniority list will be granted permission for absence while a recognized physician continues to certify him as unfit by reason of sickness or injury for any work offered by the Company, provided the duration of such absencedoes not exceed the length of time representedby the employee’s seniority or nine (9) months, whichever is the lesser. However, by mutual agreement, permission for absence may be extended beyond nine (9) months on a month by month basis. Subject to the provisions cf this agreement, the employee may return to his regular job when the leave of absence expires if he is still qualified and has the necessary seniority.
An employee who has completed the required probationary period shall, on request, be granted pregnancy leave, subject to the following terms and conditions:
The employee shall notify the Personnel Manager not later than the third month of pregnancy and submit a certificate from a recognized physician;
82
b)	The employee shall continue (o work a5 long as her physical condition permits, hut her leave of absence shall commence as soon as she is unable to work regularly and perform her regular job satisfactorily,
c)	The employee shall, if possible, give the Company at least two (2) weeks notice cf intention before < ommencing leave,
d)	Within three (3) months aftei confinement, the employee shall notify the Company cf the date she will be. available to return to work, which date shall be not more than six (6) months after confinement and the employer shall apply for work within such Mx (6) month period; provided, however, that m case of premature termination of the pregnancy the employee shall apply for wojk as soon a5 she is physically able:
e)	The employee shall confirm the exact date on which she will be available to return Io work by notifying the Company accordingly not. more than two (2) weeks and not less than one (1) week before suchdate;
f)	Following proper notification to the Company, the employee shall be returned Lo a job in her last job classification if she is still qualified arid'has the necessary seniority
If not qualified under the foregoing provision, then she will be granted anotherjob, provided she is willing and qualified to perform the work and has the necessary seniority
83
19 04
19 05
a)
b)
19 06 19 07
MATERNITY AND PARENTAL BENEFITS
/Sn employee on the seniority list will be granted permission for absence for maternity or parental benefits as per legislation
The Company will grant leave of absence to attend official business authorized by the International to not more than six (6) employees subject to the following conditions
that at least one week’s written notice be given to the Company designating the persons for whom such leave is desired,
the number cf employees from any one department to be mutually agreed, provided at least one may be elected from a department,
If an employee overstayshis leave of absence, he is presumed to have severed his employmentwith the Company, unless he can give a satisfactory explanation for his inability to return to work on the expiry date of his leave cf absence
LEAVE OF ABSENCE PROCEDURE
These are requests above regular vacation entitlements Requests must be made at least one (1) month in advance Replies must he given within seven (7)days Requests must be made on the following form fully filled out
84
OUR RESPONSE MUST BE IN WHITING BY WAY OF THIS FORM, FULLY COMPLETED.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE REQUEST
NAME
DATE
ABSENCE REQUIRED
FROM_____________TO.____________(INCLUSIVE)
RETURNED TO WORK ON:_________________________
PERMISSION IS (GRANTED) OR (DENIED)
SIGNATURE ___________________________________
(EMPLOYEE)	(SUPERVISOR)
DATE_________________________
85
ARTICLE 20 NOTICES
20.01 Except where otherwise provided, any notice which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by prepaid registered mail as follows:
(I)	To the Company
Personnel Manager
St. Lawrence Corporation 24 Bath Road Iroquois, Ontario KOE 1K0
(II)	To the Union
United Food and Commercial Workers
Local 478T 655-32e Avenue Suite 300
Lachine, Que. H8T 3G6
86
(Ill)	To (he I .oral
Copy of the above correspondence will also be given, by hand, to the Local Union President When possible, and if not, it will he addressed follows.
Local Union President Local 4781 PO Box 69 Iroquois, Ontario K0E-1K0
Any notice given as aforesaid shall he deemed given and received as of (he business day following the day of mailing.
87
ARTICLE 21
RENEWAL, AMENDMENT, AND TERMINATION
a) This agreement shall continue in effect until the 30tii day of September, 2000, and shall continue automatically thereafter for annual periods of one year each, unless either party notifies the other in writing during the period of one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the expiration date that it desires to amend or terminate this agreement.
Negotiations shall begin within fifteen (15) days following notification for amendment of this agreement, prior to the current expiration date it shall expire, unless it is extended for a specific period by mutual agreement of the parties.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representatives this 1“ day of February, 1999.b)
The Company agrees to pay the Union Negotiating Committee members for hours lost from work due to meetings summoned by the Company for the renewal of the CollectiveAgreement.
The pay rate will be at straight time at the employee’s regular hourly rate, or average hourly rate, whichever is applicable.
88
For the Union:	__________________________
PJ. OLIVIER	E. SPES
R. FRANCIS K NEVILLE
D. WORKMAN	S. CASSELMAN
For the Company: _________
W. JONES
D. COOK
W. BAILEY
89
ST LAWRENCE CORP/CALDWELL Schedule 1, Rates of Pay
DEPT OCCUPATION
YARN PREPARATION:
Revised Dec/21/98
Classi-
fication
CONTRACTUAL RATES 90%
i	; Guar.
’ 9/27/98; Rate
i 1 ■ i- ■	01 01 01 01 oi oi	Size Mixer Helper Slasher.Tender	 Warpe^jSre«jer	 Warper Tender Winder fender	1051 1050 1041 ’ 1040 1080 " 1002	DPWP ij ' DPWP p ' DPWP lj ‘“DPWP“1 MDHP 1!	12.38 12.75 12.07 12.48 ’ 12/15'	11.14 11.48 10.86 ' 11,23	12.57 , i 12.94 j 12.25 ! 12.67 - 12.33 ! 14.10 '	
		Fixer		MHP 1	13.89			
	01	Scheduler	1004	UHP 1	13.93			14.14
	01	Yam Supplier	1042	MHP 1	11.84			12.02
WEAVE ROOM:								
	02	Fixer	2033-36	DPWP	14.08	12.67		14.29
	02	Fixer Jacausrd	2034	DPWP |	14.21	12.79	: 14.42	
	02	Tvina Machine Oper.	2004	DPWP |	12.93	11.64		13.12
	02	Weaver Jacquard	-	DPWP |	13.00	11.70		13.20
	n?	Weaver Regular	2110.11	DPWP ||	12.87	11.58		13.06
	02	Beam Handler	2005	MHP 1	12.15		' 12.33	
	02	Cloth Doffer	2011	MHP ||	12.13			12.31
	02	Fixer Unlfill&Uster	2035	MHP	13.90			14.11
	02	Loom Cleaner	2013	MHP H	11.77			11.95
	0?	OBer	2012	MHP	12.08			12.26
	0?	Pattern Cutter	2040	MHP II	12.84			13.03
	02	Smash Hand	2009	MHP II	12.35		! 12.54	
	02	Assignment Checker	2007	UHP	11.33		! 11.50	
DYE & BLEACH:								
	03	Ass'tnt Cold Pad Tender	3080	MDHP ||	12.63		: 12.82	
	03	Bleach Range Tender	3020	MDHP II	12.68		; 12.87	
	03	Cold Pad Tender	3070	MDHP D	13.31		: 13.51	
	03 1	Dve Beck Tender	3050	MDHP II	12.70			12.89
	03	Loop Drver Tender	3040	MDHP 1	12.48			12.67
	03	Scutcher Tender	3030	MDHP 1	12.51			12.70
	03	Unroller Tender	3000	MDHP	12.48			12.67
	03	Finishing Utility	3095	MHP i	12.48			12.67
	03	Greige Utility 		.3090		MHP.... j	12.07			12.25
'sewing		ROOM:		1				
\	04	Applique Mach. Operator	4195	DPWP 1	12.02	10.82		12.20
	04	Auto Cutter Classer	4045	DPWP !	T2.40	11.16		12.59
	04	Classer Line & Regular	4040	DPWP 1	12.23	11.01		12.41
	04	Cloth Inspector	2300	DPWP |;	12.18	10.96		12.36
	04	Cutter	4010	DPWP 1	12.10	10.89		12.28
	04		4060	DPWP i	12.23	11.01		12.41
	04	Finish. Side Hem Oper.	4141	DPWP f	12.38	11.14		12.57
	04	Finishing Towelling Inspector	4037	UHP	11.39			11.56
f	04	Greige Side Hem Oper.	2210	DPWP |	12.55	11.30		12.74
	04	Labeller	4160	DPWP 1	12.09	10.88		12.27
	04	Overedger	4150	DPWP 1	12.09	f 10.88		12.27
	04	Parcener	4190	DPWP |	12.15	10.94		i*..
	04	Polybagger/Marker		r d'pwp S		10.86		12.25
04 {Repairer
DPWP l!| Vi.98 'Tld.78
LAWRENCE CORP/ CALDWELL		1 Revised	I Dec/21/98		|.	|		1.	
<edule 1, Rales of Pay					CONTRACTUAL RATES				
					■	|	90%	i	j	! 90%
3'T			Classi-			Guar.			
	OCCUPATION	i Code	ficatkm		I 9/27/98	Rate	L	9/26/99	I Rate
04	Sewing mach. Operator '	1	4130	DPWP	'• 12.09		10.88		12,27	11.04
04	Auto End Hemmef Oper.	4135	MDHP		12 43	11.19		12.62	" 11738”
' 04	Shearer/Slitter	4035	MDHP		I 12.51	11.26		12.70	11.43
04	Re-Inspector	4009	MHP		12.08			12.26	
04	Remnant Sorter	4002	MHP		11.81			11.99			
04	Secondary Classer	4041	OPWP		12.15			12.33	
04	Section Hand	4000	MHP		12.60			12.79	
04	Sewing Fixer	4005	MHP		13.91			14.12	
04	Sewing Supplier	4007	MHP		11.70			11.88	
04	Head Sewing Fixer	4012	Trade's		14.26			14.47	
04	Sewing Room Clerk	4001	UHP I		11.34			11.51	
04	Sweeper	4006	UHP I		10.64			11.10	
'PING	& RECEIVING:		|						
05	Set Maker	5036	DPWP I		11.86	10.67		12.04	10.64
05	Monogram Operator	5038	UHP i		11.34			11.51	
05	A88*t Stiipoer/Receiver	5024	UHP |		11.87			12.05	
OS	Fork tilt Operator/ReceMng	5002	UHP I		11.42			11.59	
05	Holst Operator	5023	UHP I		11.46			11.63	
05	Inventory Checker	6013	UHP I		11.46			11.63	
OS	Packer Checker	5014	UHP I		11.41			11.58	
05	Picker Packer	5020	UHP II		11.40			11.57	
05	Repr. Price Tagging	5999	UHP II		11.14			11.31	
05	Sample Clerk	5033	UHP II		11.65			11.82	
05	Shipper	5035	UHP ll		12.02			12.20	
05	Utility Employee	5021	UHP ll		11.14			11.31	
05	Order Extractor	5019	UHP ||		11.63			11.80 :	
/ICE:			ill						
06	Supply Room Hand	6000	UHP		11.58			11.75 •	
06	Shop Helper	6001	UHP		11.66	l		11.66 i	
06	Sanitation Janitor	6002	UHP		11.17			11.34 I	
06	Laboratory Tester	6004	UHP	i	12.07	“1			12.25 i	
06	Mill Tester	6005	UHP li		11.80			11.68	
06	Qual.Control Re-insp. I	6008	UHP |:		11.35	,		11.52	
06	Appr.Pattem Designer i	6012	UHP |l		12.50	1		12.69	.
OESMEN: !i									
07	Stationary Ena. Chief I	7001	Trade's	-	16.21			16.48	
07	Stationary Eng.. 3rd Class I	7002	Trade's ii		16.40			16.65 ‘	
0/	General Malnt. (Not noksM) 1	7009	Trade’s I;		14.93	;		15.15	_ ... __
07	Electrical Techn. grade 1 I	7010	Trade's		17.03			17.29	.... _.
07	Electrician Ticketed	7014	Trade's		16.01			16.25	
07	General Malnt. (ticketed)	7015	Trade's		16.01			16.25	
07	Carpenter Ticketed	7017	Trade's |j		16.01			16.25	
07	nstrum. Tech, grade 1 I	7040	Trade's	T	17.03		i	17.29	
91
ST. LAWRENCE CORP/CALDWELL !		Revised:	Dec/21/98	T	i			
Schedule 1. Rates of Pay				CONTRACTUAL RATES			
	•			i	90%		9*
	,		Classi-	I	Guar.		G
DEPT	OCCUPATION I	Code	fication	| 9/27/96	Rate		9/26/99: R
PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES : !							
•	Up to 20 Days (i60hre) 1			1 8.38			8.51 ;
	21 to40 Days (320h») 1		•	! 8.51	.		
’ [41 to 60 Days HSOh*)				8.63		. .	8.76 j
OCCUPAT	ibN'C^aR^iiONS: _			L			
	Direct Piece Work Paid						DPWP					- • i
\	Measured Direct Hourfy Paid		MDHP	I 									
7			MHP ~1	[			
	Unmeasured Hourly Paid		UHP				
			Trade's			—	
				I			
92
SCHEDULE II - PLANT HOLIDAYS
1, A) Except for StationaryEngineersandWatch Keepers, no work will be performed on the following days which will be recognized as paid holidays:
New Year's Day (Jan. 1) Civic Eloliday January 2nd	ThanksgivingDay
Good Friday	Labour Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day*	Boxing Day
An eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth holiday is granted as agreed below:
SUN. MON. TUE, WED. THU. FRI. &AT.
24	25	26
BoxingX-Mas
1998
DEC.
DEC/JAN.
27	28	29	30	31	1
Float Float Float Jan.2 Jan.l
1999 SUN. DEC. 19
MON
20
DEC/JAN.
26
Boxing
Jan.l
TUE.
21
27
Float
Jan.2
WED
22
28
Float
THU.
23
29
FRI.
24
SAT-.
25 X-Mas
30 31	1
93
b)	Any work required by Management other than Stationary
Engineers and Watch Keepers on these holidays, shall be on a voluntary basis by seniority, provided they are qualified to do the work.
c)	Seven f 7$ay, twelve (12) hour shift & weekend schedule
Employees will be required to work their regular shift when one cf these holidays occur. Employees who work on a plant holiday will be paid time and one half (11/2) for hours worked.
Both employees who are scheduled to work and employees who are not scheduledto work on one cf these holidays will be paid eight (8) hours pay for holiday.
To be eligible forthe holiday pay, the employeemust meet the qualificationscf Schedule II, 3 a).
2.	Plant holiday pay will be computed on the basis cf eight (8)
hours at the employee’s regular hourly rate cf pay in the case of hourly workers, and on the basis of eight (8) hours at the employees straight time average hourly earnings for the pay period in which the holiday occurs in the case of piece workers.
94
SCHEDULE 11-PLANT HOLIDAYS
3.	a) In order to qualify for plant holiday pay, the employee must work his full scheduled shifts on each cf the work days immediately preceding and immediately followingthe plant holiday concerned, except in the case wherethe employeewas prevented from workingthese declared working days because of duly certified illness, or death in his immediate family (husband, wife, child, father, mother, brother, sister, father-in-law,mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents, common-law spouse, daughter-in-law, son-in-law) or if the employee had permission from the Company to be excused from work on these two days, provided he has effectively worked during one of the four weeks precedingthe week in which the holiday occurs. If an employeehas not worked the declared working days previous to and followingthe holiday for reasons of being laid otf he wll be entitled to the paid holiday, provided he has effectively worked during the week preceding the week in which the holiday occurs.
Any holiday or holidays occurring during an employee’s vacation will entitle the employee to add additional corresponding day (s) to their vacation. The selection cf the said day(s) will be allowed after mutual agreement with his Supervisor.
95
c) If an employee has not worked the declared working days previous to and following the statutory holiday, or statutory holidays and that more than one (1)statutory holiday fallson consecutive days, the Company may not penalize the employee for more than one (l)statutory holiday.
In the event Canada Day occurs on a Tuesday, it shall be observed on the previous Monday, and where Canada Day occurs on a Wednesday or Thursday, it shall be observed on the following Friday.
If a plant holiday occurs on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company will post the date of observance cf such holiday which will be on a Friday or Monday.
4.	At employee who is required to work on a plant holiday will be paid for work performed on such day at one and one half times his regular straight time rate cf pay in addition to his holiday pay.
5.	Stationary Engineers and Watch Keepers shall receive pay for the plant holidays set out in this schedule in accordance with the terms hereof and when required to work on a plant holiday, will be paid for work performed on such day at time and one half his regular rate cf pay.
6.	Pay day will continue to be on Thursday at 16h00, except
when a Statutory Holiday falls on a Thursday, in which case the pay will he distributed on the following working day at 16h00.
96
7.	Any employee who is required to work on Christmas Day or
New Year’s Day shall be compensated for each hour so worked at double time their straight time regular rate, in addition to the holiday pay.
SCHEDULE III VACATIONS WITH PAY
Ab The company agrees to grant two (2) weeks’ continuous vacation to each employee in it’s service at the commencement cf such vacation. The Company may close all or part cf the plant for vacation purposes during the summer months and will endeavour to have the vacation shutdown during the last two (2) weeks of July, if business conditions permit.
Any employee wi1h five (5)years’ continuous service with the Company is entitled to a third week cf vacation.
Any employee with fifteen (15) years continuous service vith the Company is entitled to a fourth week of vacation.
It is understood that for employees working on weekend shifts, a week vacation shall consist cf Saturday and Sunday off.
In the selection cf an employee’s dates of vacation, an employeehaving more seniority will have preference over an employee with less seniority.
97
Employees in departments which do not have an annual shutdown period will indicate before. April 15th their preference as to the dates cf their first and second weeks cf vacation.
Employees entitled to a third (3) or fourth (4) week vacation will indicate before April 15th, their preference as to the dates cf the period of the third and fourth weeks vacation.
The third (3)and fourth (4)weeks vacation will be scheduled as far as possible in advance to coincide with the wishes expressed by the employees taking into consideration the needs of production.
The Company agrees all employees can have their vacation pays received during their elected vacation weeks.
2.	Total amount cf vacationpay and time of eachemployeeshall
be based on his length cf continuous service with the Company and shall exclude previous vacation pay. The above-mentioned shall be computed in accordance. with the table set forth below.
Percentage of pay shall be for the twelve (12) months preceding the last full pay period cf June.
The number of years of continuous service used in reckoning the amount of weeks for which an employee is entitled to take under the terms cf this Article will be computedas ofthe 30th of June prior to the "Annual Vacation Weeks”.
The followingvacation time and table will apply:
Vacation	Payment %
Entitlement Effective
Year’s Service
(weeks)
09-27-1998
0-1	2	4.0
1-5	2	4.5
5-10	3	6.5
0-15	3	8.5
15-20	4	9.5
20-25	4	10.5
25 & over	4	11.5
Except for Maintenance employees, any work performed during the annual shutdown will be offered on a voluntary basis, and by seniority provided they are qualified to do the work.
The Company wIL confirm through posting the date cf the plant shutdown (annual vacation) by April 1st. The employees concerned will in such case have up to April 15thto select the date cf their first and second week vacation.
99
3.	Scheduling of vacations will continue to be done as per our Collective Labour Agreement ■ Schedule III.
For employees who do not schedule their additional vacation weeks as above, the followingwill apply.
Employees will have until February 1st to request their vacation dates. This will be awarded on a first come basisand not by seniority. The weeks cf vacation wIL be scheduledas far as possible in advance to coincide with the wishesxpressed by the employees, taking into consideration the needs cf production.
Any vacation entitlementnot requested prior to the February 1st deadline will be lost if it cannot be agreed to and taken before June 1st cf the vacation year.
4,	One week‘s vacation (defined)
One week cf vacation will consist of a week from Sunday’s shift to and include Saturday’s shift.
100
SCHEDULE IV INSURANCE PLAN
The Company agrees to insure the employees in accordance with the general plan that has been discussed and agreed to with the Union.
This plan will be administered by recognized insurance companies and/or associations. Each employee will receive a copy cf the plan.
The following schedule cf insurance will be provided.
1.	(i) Life insurance: $20,000.00
(ii)	AD. &D.:	$20,000.00
(iii)	Dependent Life: $5,000.00 spouse
$3,000.00 child
(jv)	ShortTermDisability: 60% cf eamingsup toU.I.C.
maximum- minimum $175,00 per week
Benefits to commence first day of accident, first day cf hospitalization or fifth day cf sickness or pregnancy and will be allowed for two (2) weeks, followed by fifteen (15) weeks if U.I.C. and a max. cf nine (9) more weeks S.T.D.
(V) LongTerm Disability: 60% cf basic monthly earnings maximum $3,000.00 per month.
Hospital Insurance:	Semi-private, major medical-
$50.00 deductibleper family.
Pays 80% cf eligible expenses up to $1,000.00 per year and 100% above.
101
2.	An employee shall not become entitled to the
above mentioned
benefits unless he has three (3) months continuous service with the Company.
3.	It is agreed that the average Company
contribution to the employee’s insuranceplanv\/illbe$14.98 per week and that all eligible employees will contribute the difference in cost. It is also understood that any future increase/decrease in premiumswill be absorbed on a 50/50 basis by the employees and the Company. However, any request by the employees for
additional benefits during the present agreement, the additional weekly cost will, be fully absorbed by the employees.
4.	Employees on vacation are deemed to be
employed and subjectto full insurance coverage.
5.	All employees must adhere to the Company’s
Group Insurance Han upon reaching their respective date of eligibility and must retain their participation in the plan throughout their period of employment with the Company.
102
SCHEDULEV AUTHORIZATION CARD
TO: ST. LAWRENCE CORPORATION
DATE
I, the undersigned, hereby authorize St. Lawrence Corporation, to deduct from my first pay, an Initiation Fee of live dollars ($5.00), and to deduct weekly and from my first full pay period, Union dues as set forth by the United Food and Commercial Workers, and remit same monthly to said Union.
I, hereby renounce in advance to any recourse in damages or otherwise against St. Lawrence Corporation, for making the above mentioned deductions during such period as this authorization may be in force.
EMPLOYEE	WITNESS
103
SCHEDULE VI
1.	Scissors allocation:
The Company will replace scissors that have been broken by accident without any charge for the employees. This Article will apply not more than twice a year. This applies forjobs requesting the utilization cf scissors only.
2.	Safety Shoes
Safety shoes will be furnished to employees eligible to participated the company’s Safety Shoe Program during the contract year.
Dye House employees are eligible for up to three (3) pairs per year to be paid to a total maximum cf $230.00 per year.
Maintenance employees are eligible for up to two (2) pairs per year to be paid to a total maximum cf $160.00 per year.
All other employees on the pre-established list are eligible for one (l)pair per year at $90.00 maximum per year.
104
YARN PREP	WEAVE ROOM	DYE & BLEACH
Slasher Helper	Cloth Doffer	Unroller Tender
Size Mixer Helper	Beam Man	* Scutcher Tender
Yarn Supplier	WarpTyer	*Loop Dryer Tender
Mechanics	All Greige Inspection Loom Fixer	*Dye Tender Bleach Range Tender
	Loom Cleaner	^Utility - Finish
	Oiler	*Cold Pad Tender
	Smash Nand	*Cold Pad Assistant
	Greige Utility	
SEWING ROOM	RECEMNC/SHIPPINC
MAINTENANCE/SERVICE
Mechanic	All ShippingPersonnel * Supply
*AH MaintenanceMai	Storeman
Floor Lady	Supply
^Stationary Engineers
Shearer
Sidehemmer
Sweeper
Yardage. Inspector
Shoes will be limited to 1 pair per year, per employee, except where *
105
SCHEDULE VI
3.	Eligible employees will he furnished with two (2) pair of
coveralls per year paid in full by the company. Those eligible are:
Fixers -Weave, Sating, Tfem Preparation Weave Room Oilers, Beam Handlers
Cold Pad Tenders, Assistant Cold Pad Tenders, Dye Beck Tender
Finish Utility
Maintenance Department
Lab coats are furnished to Lab employees.
ah Optional schedule of hours of work:
Ithe need arises, the Companywill have the right to institute a seven (7) day operation schedule for all plant, a department or part of a department.
In such a case, both the Union and the employee will be previously contacted in order to discuss the type of schedule or any other items related to such an implementation. A one month notice period will be given prior to the shift implementation.
106
5.	Tradesmen:
It is understood that Tradesmen that have begun a task on regular schedule hours will be required to complete the task when completion of work cannot be delayed.
6.	Benefit Plan:
In each year of the agreement, the Companywill deduct two cents ($0.02) per hour worked per employee, to be used by the Union toward their benefit plan. That cumulatedamount will be sent monthly to the United Food and Commercial Workers.
7.Sundav Premium for Stationary Engineers:
It is understood that the hereafter mentioned Stationary Engineers will be paid at the rate of a hundred and eighty five percent (185%for work performed on Sunday, during thelifetime of the present CollectiveLabour Agreement.
NAME: MR. MICHAEL SHARPE MR. LAWRENCE MERKLEY
107
SCHEDULE VI
8 .Voluntary Overtime Work: RE: 11.05 b)
Between May 15th and Labour Day, any work performed after 23h00 Friday, shall be voluntary, except for Stationary Engineers, Watch Keepers and employees on weekend shifts.
Employees willing to perform overtimework Saturday during the voluntary weekend period will sign the overtime posting sheet by every Tuesday noon hour.
The Company will advise by Friday lOhOO if work is available.
If there are not enough volunteer employees to fill the needs of production on Saturday only, the Company may, at it’s discretion, use other workers to meet these needs. It is understood that those workers will be paid at regular straight time rate, without regard to the other provisions cf this Collective Labour Agreement, and will have no rights under the Collective Labour Agreement.
9.“Arf Hoc" Labour/Management Committee:
During the lifetime cf the Collective Labour Agreement, the parties agree to meet to discuss all matters related to productivity or flexibility of administration, production, communication, cost reduction, etc., in order to evaluate the possibilities of improving each one of these or any other matters, taking into consideration the well-being of employees as well as the well-being of the Company.
108
I
By mutual agreement, the parties will attempt to identify the areas where such improvements might be applied and the possible solutions to be implemented.
lO.Tool replacement :
It is generally agreed that, as a policy, the Company will replace tools broken wliile working on Company property with tools of equivalent quality and will endeavour to expedite the replacement.
H .Meal arrangements-weekendemplovees:
There will be no interruption cf the machines for meals but proper time will be allowed forthe same. There viD. he three twenty minutes eating periods granted at a time designated by the Company during each shift provided that whenever possible productive macliinery will be. continued in operation during such twenty minutes and the Company will not be obliged to engage additional personnel to provide for the operation thereof. Employees will take their rest period at a designated place.
109
SCHEDULE VI
12.	Layoff and termination :
The Company wfl_ follow all present legislation in regards to termination of employment and termination or severance pay.
Temporary layoffs may extend up to thirty-five (35)weeks at which time the employee will firstly have the choice to exercise contractual bumping rights if available, secondly to receive any termination or severance pay, or to maintain
contractual recall rights if this applies.
13.	Vacation request:
Employees wi1h twenty five (25) years service or more, may request one (1) additional week of vacation, and if a mutual exchange can be agreed to by the employees, the Company will endeavour to allow the extra week of vacation.
The mutual exchange can be done only if paid at a straight time rate, and no overtime payment will result from the mutual exchange.
14.	Pension Plan:
The Company agrees to pay twenty cents (20) per hour for each employee (past the probationary period) for all hours worked, to be deposited in a group R.R.S.P. Rules cf eligibility etc. to be discussed and agreed.
110
15.	Gainsharing:
The Company and the Union agree to proceed as quickly as possible with a Gainsharing Program. Details will be reviewed and proceeded with as expediently as feasible.
16.	Best m Assignment
One operator per machine operatingvflL be protected.
fie discussed with all Classers, the majority wished to have the following:
Senior Classers will choose their assignmentatthe start cf die shift - Iie,secondaryaiEa,Barudan. This will be for8 hours. There will be no displacing during the shift unless a layoff, illness, absence occurs.
17. Group Insurance Plan:
The Company and the Union agree to co-ownership of the group insurance plan.
Ill
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representatives this	1st day of February,
1999.
For the Union:
PJ. OLIVIER	E. SPES
R. FRANCIS	K NEVILLE
D. WORKMAN	S. CASSELMAN
For the	Company:
W. JONES	D. COOK
W. BAILEY
112