COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2000-2005
BETWEEN
cso
Svndicat des salarie(es) des Usines Huntinadon
Les Usines Huntingdon (Canada) Ltee Huntingdon M]]s (Canada) Ltd.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section 1
.Declarationof the parties...............................6
Section 2 Work
stoppage................................................11
Section 3
Withholding and union
security................................................12
Section 4
Labor relations committee (grievances)
/ union activities....................................,.15
Section 5
Grievance and arbitration procedure........................21
Section 6
Discipline..............................................27
Section-7
Worklo'ad:’::;”'
Section 8
Hours of wpfk,.....
M t“ rt; i
1
1
31
32
Section 9
Overtime procedure....................................36
Section 10
Payment of overtime...................................40
Section 11
Wages...............................................  42
Section 12
Legal holidays........................................46
Section 13
Personal holidays.....................................49
Section 14
Leave of absence......................................50
Section 15
Seniority................................................51
Section 16
Annual paid vacations....................................70
Section 17
Contributions to group insurance.........................74
Section 18
Bulletin boards..........................................78
3
Section 19
Health and safety.....................................79
Section 20
Letters or other agreements...........................81
Section 21
Schedule forweekend shifts,...........................82
Section 22
Negotiating committee.................................90
Section 23
Correspondence........................................92
Section 24
Maternity leave.......................................92
Section 25
Notice of termination of employment or
lay-off and certificate of employment.................97
Section 26
Indemnity in lieu of notice...........................98
Section 27
Red circle rates......................................99
Section 28
Fixed-price contracts.................................99
4
Section 29
Group RRSP...........................................101
Section 30
T erm of agreement...................................102
Appendix A
Salaries.............................................104
Appendix B
Shifts and hours.....................................110
Appendix C
Job description....................................  113
Appendix D
Certification and procedure
for instructor selection..............................US
Appendix E
Pay equity.........................................  118
Appendix F
T raining periods....................................119
SECTION 1
DECLARATION OF THE PARTIES
1.00 OBJECTIVES:
This Agreement is entered into in order to:
A)	promote orderly and harmonious relations between the Employer, the Union and the employees covered by this Agreement;
B)	establish the wages, hours and conditions of work, and to promote the security and the well-being of employees;
C)	settle amicably and promptly all complaints and grievances which could arise between the Employer, the Union or the employees during the term of this Agreement;
D)	promote the efficiency of operations.
In the present agreement, any reference to a title or subject in brackets following a section number of the collective agreement is made merely as an indication and for the sole purpose of facilitating the reader's comprehension of the text.
6
1.01 RIGHTS OF MANAGEMENT:
The Union recognizes the Employer's right to manage the plant and the industrial enterprise in which it is engaged. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing and subject to the other provisions of this Agreement and subject to the grievance procedure as it applies to all matters pertaining to this Agreement, this right includes the following:
A)	to maintain order and discipline;
U) to hire, classify, transfer, promote, demote, lay-off and dismiss, suspend or reprimand employees for cause;
C)	to introduce or change mechanical processes, study workloads and institute changes in workloads, in job assignments, in methods of operation, determine the compensation policy, determine the products to be manufactured, the production schedules, the types and locations of machines and tools to be used, the manufacturing processes, the control of materials to be used in manufacturing the products and whether to increase or curtail operations;
D)	to ensure the productivity and the security of its operations, organize and schedule the work, direct the work force, which right includes the right to determine the personnel who till be assigned to specificjobs.
1.02	UNION RECOGNITION:
The Employer agrees to recognize the Union as the sole bargaining agent duly authorized to represent, for the purposes of the Labour Code, all employees included in the bargaining unit as defined in the union accreditation certificate issued by the Ministere du Travail dated June 8, 1989.
It is also understood that no individual agreement may be entered into without an agreement in writing between the Employer and the Union.
1.03	WORK CARRIED OUT BY THE STAFF
As a rule, the tasks included in the jobs covered by this Agreement and appearing in Appendix "A" may not be carried out by staff members when an employee is able and available to do the work. This does not prevent staff members from doing such work in emergency cases or to train employees, to start up new machines or restart, in the presence of the operator, a newly-repaired machine, to do experimental work, to do development or other work deemed necessary by the Employer to control quality.
1.04	LEADHANDS:
The leadhands are not considered to be foremen, they cannot impose disciplinary measures or dismiss employees. However, if the foreman is not available, the instructions of the leadhands must be followed to insure the proper operation of the department.
8
1.05 A) WORKING DAY
For the purposes of this Agreement, and subject to Section21.08 (schedule for weekend shifts), a "working day" means a weekday except Saturdays and Sundays, the legal holidays listed in Sectionl2 (legal holidays) and such days when a department is closed or when an employee is not required to report for work.
B)	DAY:
For the purposes of this Agreement, a "day" means a calendar day.
C)	SPOUSE:
For the purposes of this Agreement, a "spouse" means a man and a woman who:
1)	are married and living together;
2)	are living together as husband and wife and are the father and mother of the same child;
3)	have been living together as husband and wife for at least one (1) year;
4)	Spouse can also mean, for the purposes of this Agreement, two (2) persons of the same sex who have been living together in a marital relationship for at least one (1) year.
0
1.06	WORK PERFORMED BY STUDENTS:
A)	The Employer may employ one or more students to do work that has previously been offered to employees covered by the bargaining unit in the same department by seniority during the school summer vacation period, i.e. from April 15 until the first Monday in September, on regular time, provided that this does not result in a regular employee being laid off or being prevented from being recalled.
During the student employment period, the Employer agrees to provide the Union with a list of the students, which will be updated each month.
It is understood that students will receive the legal minimum wage or a higher rate if specified.
B)	A student does not acquire any rights under this Agreement except if otherwise provided by law and will be laid off no later than the first Monday in September.
C)	Where a student, following a request to the Employer, retains his employment for the reason that he is not going back to school, his seniority will begin only from the first Monday of September of the current year.
1.07	Employees normally receive their work assignments and their orders from their foreman; however, any other foreman or officer of the Employer may at all times discipline an employee who has damaged the
10
equipment, machinery or other property of the Employer or has violated the basic safety rules.
Each employee must obtain permission from his foreman or his replacement before leaving his department and must also obtain the permission from
the foreman of the department where he is going.
1.08 DISCRIMINATION:
The parties hereto agree that there will be no discrimination against anyone for reasons of race, color, religion, sexual orientation or political conviction as far as hiring, promotions or exchange of positions are concerned. However, this clause may not be interpreted as overriding Section3,05 (union dues) which specifies that every employee must become and remain a member of the Union.
SECTION 2 WORK STOPPAGE
2.00
Both parties agree that neither the Union nor the Employer, nor any of their members, employees or representatives, may cause, aid, participate in or support any strike or lock-out, or a work slow-down or stoppage constituting a lock-out or strike of any nature whatsoever at the Employer's plant, during the term of this Agreement. If an employee contravenes this section, he rail have violated this Agreement and may be subject to dismissal.
n
Moreover, the Union undertakes not to do any picketing,
even peacefully, during the term of this Agreement.
The two parties agree to do their best to prevent such actions and/or direct their members, employees or representatives to cease and desist from such actions.
SECTION 3
WITHHOLDING AND UNION SECURITY
3.00
During the term of this Agreement, the Employer will accept any authorization signed by an employee on an authorization form supplied by the Union for deduction and remittance of his union dues. The Employer undertakes to forward to the Union monthly the amounts thus collected.
3.01 REVOCATION PERIOD:
An employee may cancel or revoke such authorization only during the period stipulated by the Labour Code of the Province of Quebec. Such revocation will be made by giving notice to the Union and to the Local Union. The revocation will not come into force until the date of confirmation by the General Labour Commissioner's Office. Every revocation must be dated, signed and identifiable.
12
3.02 NOTICE PERTAINING TO UNION DUES:
The Union undertakes to inform the Employer of the amount of union dues in force at the time of execution of this Agreement and, at least fifteen (15) working days before the date of the deduction, of any change in the said amount during the term of this Agreement.
3.03 COLLECTION:
The Employer will collect union dues at each pay period but will forward monthly to the treasurer of the Union the amounts so deducted.
3.04	LIST OF EMPLOYEES:
A)	With its remittance the Employer will give the Union a complete list indicating:
-	the payroll numbers and the names of all employees appearing on the pay sheets at the time of deduction;
-	for every employee who has authorized such a deduction, the weekly amount which has been collected;
-	the names of the employees who did not pay union dues.
I3
B)	Twice a year, in April and in October, the Employer will give the Union and to the Local Union a list of all the employees recorded on the Employer's payroll containing the following information:
1)	Name
2)	Complete address including postal code
3)	Telephone number
4)	Department
5)	Job
6)	Date of birth
7)	Information related to the employee's reason of absence at the moment of remittance
3.05	UNION DUES:
The Employer agrees that as a condition of employment all employees must be and remain members in good standing of the Union. AO new employees must become members after one (1) complete week of work.
3.06	INTRODUCTION OF A NEW EMPLOYEE:
Following the hiring of a new employee, the foreman will introduce him, as soon as the first day, to the department steward or to an officer of the Union, if the latter is absent. A copy of the collective agreement will be given to him at the end of his probationary period.
14
SECTION 4
LABOUR RELATIONS COMMITTEE (GRIEVANCES)/ UNION ACTIVITIES
4.00 UNTON STEWARD - APPOINTMENT:
A)	The Union may appoint a Union steward for each one of the following departments:
1)	Mixing
2)	Carding
3)	Sliver Knitting
4)	Dyehouse
5)	Sliver Finishing
6)	Loop Finishing
7)	General Maintenance
8)	Shipping
B)	Moreover, the Union may appoint an additional Union steward for each evening or night shift with more than ten 0-0) employees, as per the last seniority list.
C)	The Union till give in writing to the Employer, within fifteen (15) days c£ their appointment, the names of employees so appointed as well as the name of every employee who will be appointed to replace a steward. The names of the stewards vdH_ be posted on the bulletin board of the department. The steward must be an employee of the department and of the shift he represents and have six (6) months of continuous service with the Employer.
IS
4.01 DUTIES:
The duties of the steward will be to study all grievances or difficulties which will be brought to his attention by employees of his department and he will act according to the procedures described in Section 5 (Grievance and arbitration procedure).
4.02 RESPONSIBILITIES:
The steward will have no power or authority to settle the cases which are submitted to him. His duties and responsibilities are strictly limited to those of an investigator. His duties are to report directly to the foreman of the department as well as to the Union. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the steward may participate in the discussions but may not take part in the meetings of the grievance committee.
4.03 COMPENSATION:
It is understood that the representatives of the Union have their own regular work to do for the Employer and that if it becomes necessary for them to take care of a grievance during working hours, the employee who wishes to meet the president or an officer of the Union will not leave his work without having obtained the permission of his foreman and of the foreman of the employee whom he wishes to meet, and will advise him when he has returned to work.
16
In order to minimize production losses, it is understood that grievances will be dealt with outside working hours as much as possible, and, on the basis of this principle, the Employer agrees not to reduce the pay of representatives because of time spent dealing with grievances during regular working hours. The Union stewards will have access to the workplace outside their regular hours without pay in order to take care of a grievance, as long as the foreman of the department is notified beforehand.
4.04 LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION ACTIVITIES:
A)	The Employer agrees to grant officers or stewards of the Union a leave of absence for Union activities outside the plant. A maximum of five (5) members at any one time will be released for a maximum period of four (4) days at any one time. The members thus released will receive their regular pay in accordance with 4.04(D) below.
B)	The Union has to notify the Employer in writing within seven (7) working days preceding the releases. Nevertheless, the two (2) parties agree to derogate from the minimum time period of seven (7) working days in emergency cases, but not less than forty-eight (48) hours of notice.
C)	Requests for permission to absent themselves will be presented to the Employer in writing, indicating the date(s) of such absences, the narne(s) of the members concerned, the reason for the absence, the number of hours and the rate to be paid to each of the members.
17
D)	The Union wH be responsible for the payment of wages (including the shift premium) to the representatives during their absences. However, the Employer agrees to administer these funds. The Employer vdH pay these amounts weekly to the representatives. Thereafter, the Employer will retain monthly from all amounts due to the Union the amounts thus paid.
E)	The Employer may fill the positions concerned in the manner it deems the most practical.
F)	If the Employer cannot fill these positions in a satisfactory manner, because of problems resulting, for example, from two or more employees being released from the same department at the same time, the Employer and the Union must agree on the employees to be released.
4.05 COMPOSITION:
A)	The parties agree to form at the time of execution of this Agreement, a grievance committee composed of four (4) members, two (2) of which being designated by the Employer and the other two (2) by the Union, but not more than one (1) member per department.
Each of these members must have completed a minimum of six (6) months of continuous service with the Employer.
18
Each of the parties agree to communicate in writing to the other party the names of its representatives on the grievance committee.
U) If the Employer or the Union requests a meeting of the grievance committee, the members of the committee will be paid for the time so lost while they would otherwise have been at work.
4.06	LOCAL OUTSIDE REPRESENTATIVE:
It is agreed that if the Union or the Employer has retained the services of a local outside representative, this person will be considered in addition to two (2) of the representatives of the Union or the Employer.
4.07	DUTIES:
The grievance committee's duty is to assist the parties in studying and settling grievances. It may also undertake a review and discussion of a matter of common interest brought to its attention by one of the parties.
4.08	MEETINGS:
The grievance committee will meet at the request of one of the parties. Every meeting will take place within ten (10) working days following the written request of such party.
i9
4.00 AGENDA:
Within three (3) working days preceding each meeting, each of the parties to this Agreement must submit in writing to the other party its proposed agenda for such meeting. However, every grievance referred to the committee before the beginning of the meeting in accordance with the provisions of Sections 5.04 (collective grievance) or 6.05 (indemnity) forms part of the agenda of the grievance committee.
4.10	MINUTES OF THE MEETING
At each meeting held between the Employer and the grievance committee, the minutes will be taken and signed copies will be exchanged by the parties at the end of each meeting. These minutes will only reflect the discussions between the parties and may in no case be interpreted as an agreement binding on the parties. Every agreement reached between the parties must be clearly indicated on a document countersigned by the parties.
4.11	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE.
Every employee whose grievance has been referred to the grievance committee may attend the meeting of the grievance committee, if the employee and the Union or the Employer so requests. In such cases, the employee must leave the meeting after having explained his case. In the case of a collective grievance, one of the employees who has signed the grievance may attend the meeting of the grievance committee, if the employee and the Union or the Employer
20
so requests. In such. cases, the employee must leave the meeting after having explained the case.
SECTION 5
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE 5.00 PREAMBLE:
For the purpose of settling any complaints or grievances submitted by an employee, except for grievances arising from the application of Section0 (work load) of this Agreement which must be settled in accordance with the procedure specified in Section 7.01 (workload), the parties establish the following procedure:
5.01 COMPLAINT:
When an employee (or a steward for a group of employees) has a complaint to make, he will submit it verbally to the foreman of the department or to the foreman of the shift and a verbal reply will be given to him. A complaint does not constitute a grievance.
5.02	GRIEVANCE - FIRST STEP:
An employee who wants to make a grievance will submit it in writing to the foreman of the department or the foreman of the shift personally within eleven (ll)wofkm§; days following the occurrence, except if the employee is not physically able
21
to sign such a grievance (for reasons such as sickness). In
that event, his steward may sign in his place and submit his grievance within eleven (ll)working days following the occurrence, or if he was absent from work, then his becoming aware, upon his return, of the circumstances which gave rise to the grievance. In the latter case, this time period may not exceed six (6) months from the occurrence of the circumstances which gave rise to the grievance.
The foreman of the department or shift must, within five (5) working days following receipt of the grievance in writing, communicate his written decision to the person having submitted the grievance. However, if the foreman does not render his decision within the five (5) following working days, the grievance will automatically be deemed to be referred to the second step by the Union or the employee.
5.03	GRIEVANCE - SECOND S TF.P
A)	If the employee is not satisfied with the decision, the Union must then submit the grievance in writing, signed by a member of the grievance committee, to the Director of Human Resources within five (5) working days following the date of the written decision of the
B)	The Director of Human Resources must communicate, within five (5) working days following receipt of the written grievance or the automatic referral as described in the foregoing paragraph, hold a meeting of the grievance committee.
22
C)	Following the meeting, the Director of Human Resources must give his decision in writing to the Union within five (5) working days following the adjournment of the meeting of the grievance committee.
5.04	COLLECTIVE GRIEVANCES:
A)	A collective grievance may be submitted by the Union directly at the second (2nd) step of the grievance procedure to the Director of Human Resources within eleven (ll)working days as specified in Section 5,02 (grievance - first step), provided that the grievance is signed by at least one of the employees involved and by the steward of the department involved.
B)	A collective grievance involving more than one department may be submitted by the Union directly at the second (2nd) step of the grievance procedure to the Director of Human Resources within eleven (11) working days as specified in paragraph 5,02 (grievance - first step), provided that the grievance is signed by an officer of the Union.
C)	Any dispute or grievance arising directly between the Employer and the Union may be submitted in writing directly by any one of the parties to the grievance committee.
23
5.05 PRESCRIPTION;
A)	If a grievance is not submitted in the time periods specified for either of the foregoing steps by the employee and/or the steward of the department or the Union, the grievance will be deemed to have been withdrawn.
B)	-Ml written decisions reached by the Director of Human Resources of the Employer and the grievance committee cf the Union will be final and will bind the Employer, the Union and the employee(s) concerned.
ARBITRATION
5.06 TIME FOR REQUESTING ARBITRATION:
If a grievance, other than one arising from the application of Section 7 (work load) of this Agreement, is submitted to the grievance committee, in accordance with paragraphs 5.04 (collective grievances) or 5.05 (prescription) and is not settled in a satisfactory manner by the said committee, the Union will send to the Employer by registered letter a written request for arbitration.
This request must be made within ten (10) working days from receipt of the Employer's written decision by the parties. If within the above mentioned ten (10) working days the Union fails to notify the Employer of a request for arbitration, the grievance will be deemed to have been withdrawn.
24

Grievances arising from the application of Section 7.01 (work load) will be settled in the manner specified in Section 7.01 B) (work load).
5.07 SINGLE ARBITRATOR
A) When in accordance with Section 5.06 (time for requesting arbitration) above, the Employer will have received notice of a request for arbitration, the grievance will be considered to have been submitted to a single arbitrator to be chosen in turn among the following arbitrators:
Mtre, Denis Nadeau Mtre. Gilles Trudeau Mtre. Diane Veilleux
For grievances related to Section 7.00 (workload) of the collective agreement, the following arbitrator will be designated to the exclusion of the other arbitrators:
Mtre. Claude Dupuis, ing,
g^ If a single arbitrator cannot act within a reasonable time period of six (6) months or if the designated single arbitrator has still not rendered his decision in a previous case, the next arbitrator will be chosen.
C)	If the above arbitrators cannot be available within a reasonable time period, one of the parties will ask the Minister of Labour of the Province of Quebec to designate an arbitrator.
25
D)	The fees and expenses of the single arbitrator will be shared equally by the Employer and the Union.
E)	The parties may amend and/or add arbitrators to the above list by mutual agreement.
5.08	DECISION:
The single arbitrator referred to in Section5.07 (single arbitrator) must render a written decision, with grounds, within thirty (30) days of the hearing of the grievance or the submission of written notes, as the case may be. The decision of the single arbitrator will be final and will bind the parties hereto and all other employees concerned.
5.09	LIMITATION OF POWER
The single arbitrator will not have the power to amend, alter or modify the terms of this Agreement.
In the case of grievances relating to disciplinary measures, the single arbitrator will have the right to maintain, amend or cancel the Employer's decision. If the single arbitrator does not maintain the Employer's decision, he will have the right to order an indemnity not exceeding the loss of salary of the employee in the plant or any lesser indemnity he will find suitable.
5.10	Any claim resulting from the settlement of a grievance submitted by an employee or a group of employees pursuant to any one of the steps of the grievance or arbitration
26
procedure cannot relate to a period of time exceeding eleven (ll)working days preceding the date when the grievance was submitted.
5.11	An arbitrator who renders a decision involving the payment c£ a sum c£ money shall retain jurisdiction, in the event of a dispute, to determine the amount of same.
5.12	Each and every one of the time limits specified in this Agreement may be extended at any time following a written agreement between the Employer and the Union.
SECTION 6 DISCIPLINE
6.00	DISCIPLINARY MEASURES:
A)	In order to maintain discipline and good order, the Employer and the Union agree to adopt the following methods and procedures and agree that these will be applied as consistently, fairly and equitably as possible. The parties also agree that the disciplinary measures will be applied according to the seriousness or the frequency of the offenses.
g) The only authorized disciplinary measures are written warnings, suspensions and dismissals.
C) Verbal notices pertaining to circumstances of a different nature may not be invoked by the Employer to justify
27
the imposition of a disciplinary measure on an
employee.
6.01	The main purpose of a disciplinary measure is to bring about a change in the employee's behaviour. Before imposing a disciplinary measure, the foreman must explain to the employee the facts which are likely to result in such disciplinary measure and give the employee the opportunity to present his version of~(he facts in the presence of a Union steward if he so desires.
6,02	Any disciplinary measure is subject to the grievance procedure.
6.03
A)	If the Employer decides to issue the employee a written warning or to impose a disciplinary or administrative suspension or dismissal, the Employer will inform a Union representative thereof.
B)	For minor offences (as opposed to major offences such as major insubordination, theft, sabotage, fraud, aggression, intoxication, and behaviour compromising personal safety), the following procedure will normally apply:
28
1.	) For a first offence, a written warning will be given to
the employee in the presence of a steward which v£ll be signed by both , simply to acknowledge the warning itself. By no means does this signature signify an admission of guilt.
2.	) For a second (2) offence of the same nature, the
Employer may suspend the employee for a period of one (1) day to three (3) days.
3.	) For any subsequent offence of the same nature, the
Employer may suspend the employee for a maximum period of one week.
4.	) If repeated offences occur, the employer may
proceed with the dismissal but only if the employee and the steward have had the occasion to meet with the Employer in order to avoid the dismissal.
5.	) For major offences, the Employer will not have the
obligation to follow the hereinabove mendonned procedure, subject to the employee's right to deposit a grievance.
C)	If an employee is required to leave the plant following an incident likely to result in a disciplinary measure (suspension or dismissal), the employee may, after having punched his card, consult his steward or a Union officer during their regular working hours, without loss of pay for the steward or the officer.
29
6.04	DISMISSING PERMANENT EMPLOYEES:
Every employee who is dismissed or suspended for more than one (1)week and who feels that he was unjustly dealt with, may submit his case to the grievance committee directly in writing or through the Union according to the second step described in Section 5.03 (grievance - second step) and step one of the grievance procedure will then be omitted.
6.05	INDEMNITY:
In the case of a suspension or of a dismissal, the grievance committee or failing that the arbitrator, will have the right to determine, if any, an indemnity to the extent of salary loss or order the reinstatement of the employee with an indemnity to the extent of salary loss.
6.06	All disciplinary measures will be removed from the file of the employee nine (9) months after being recorded therein, if no similar offence has been committed during this time.
6.07	A disciplinary notice must be given to the employee within eleven (ll)days following the occurrence or the knowledge of the circumstances giving rise thereto. During the five (5) working days following receipt of a disciplinary notice by an employee, the Employer till give one (1) copy of such written notice which has been recorded in the employee's file to a member of the executive committee of the Union.
30
6.08	If an employee is suspended for more than one day, the suspension days will be consecutive.
6.09	The Union steward of the department concerned or, if he is not available, a member of the executive committee, will sign the written reprimand, but only as an acknowledgment of receipt.
SECTION 7 WORK LOAD
7.00	In the case of a new job governed by this Agreement, or in the case of a technological change or in the case of major changes to an existing workload, the Employer will determine temporarily the workload and the salary and will advise the Union thereof in writing within a reasonable time.
7.01
A)	The Employer will then institute a trial period of sixty (60) working days in order to determine whether the new salary and/or workload is fair.
B)	If, after the trial period, the parties cannot agree, within ten (10) working days following completion of the trial period, the Union may raise the matter according to the grievance procedure directly at the second step and the parties will then agree on a qualified arbitrator, failing which the Minister of Labour will appoint an arbitrator.
31
7.02	If no procedure is instituted during this time period, the
salary rates and the workloads which have been determined during the trial period will be deemed to have been established and accepted by the parties.
When a grievance has been submitted, the workloads, the salary rates and the working conditions having prevailed during the trial period will remain in force until a final decision is made on the grievance.
SECTION 8 HOURS OF WORK
8.00	A) SHIFTS AND HOURS OFWORK
For each job appearing in Appendix "A" of this Agreement, the normal working day will be comprised of.eight (8) hours and the normal work week wall start at 11:00 p.m. on Sunday and be allocated until 11:00 p.m. on Friday inclusively, as required. The Employer will determine whether the plant as a whole, a whole department or one section of a department may operate with one, two or three shifts.
However, if two weekend shifts are in place, in accordance with Section 21 (schedule for weekend shift), within the same department, the normal work week will start at 7:00 a.m. on Monday and end at 7:00 a.m. on the following Saturday, inclusively. The Employer will determine whether the plant as a whole, a whole
32
department cr one section of a department may operate with one or two or three shifts.
B)	MEALS
There will be no machine interruption for meals and the time for meals will be paid to those employees replacing each other.
However, all employees on continuous operations will, when required, replace each other during meal times in order to ensure proper operations in accordance with the requirements of production.
C)	REST PERIODS
AO employees will be entitled to a rest period of ten (10) minutes on a regular shift of eight (8) hours.
However, all employees on continuous operations will, when required, replace each other during the rest period in order to ensure proper operations in accordance with the requirements of production.
The Employer will also grant a period of five (5) minutes at the end of each shift to allow employees to wash themselves before leaving work, as long as employees who work on continuous operations replace each other.
D)	1. Employees must register their arrival and departure time on and from the plant on the cards provided for this purpose. Moreover, every
33
employee who is not paid during meal time has to
punch his card at the end of his work and when he returns to work. Any employee having neglected to follow this rule must have their cards approved by their supervisor before the cards can be accepted by the paymaster.
2.	An employee who punches in late will have deduced from his pay the actual time lost.
3.	Start of work: An employee must not punch his card more than twenty (20) minutes before the start of his shift.
4.	End of work:	An employee must punch his
card when he leaves work before the specified time.
5.	An employee who cannot report for work must notify his foreman or a representative of the Employer at least:
a)	Fifteen (15) minutes before the start of the morning shift;
b)	One (1)hour before the start of the afternoon or evening shift.
6.	If an employee is absent for more than three (3) days he must notify his foreman at least twenty-four (24) hours before the date of his return to work.
34
7. Work attendance:
AH employees must start work or be at their machines or jobs at the time specified for the start of their shift. They must not leave work before the end of their respective shifts.
8.01	CHANGES IN WORKING HOURS:
Working hours may be changed in order to improve efficiency, to balance production, to improve quality, in cases of force majeure or for any other valid reasons. Such changes vdH only be made once an agreement has been reached between the Employer and the Union.
8.02	The purpose of Section 8 (hours of work) is to determine the regular working hours: it should not be interpreted as guaranteeing annual, weekly or daily salaries or working hours.
8.03	ADDITIONAL HOURS:
It is understood by mutual consent of the parties that certain shifts or parts of such shifts may work regularly for periods of time exceeding those stipulated above, provided that the provisions of Section9 (overtime procedure) concerning payment of overtime are complied with.
35
8.04 If the parties fail to reach an agreement and in order to
safeguard the viability of the operations, the provisions of Sections 8,01 (changes in working hours) and 8.03 (additional hours) may be applied by the Employer and the burden of proof will fall upon the Employer through the Director of Human Resources or his substitute.
SECTION 9
OVERTIME PROCEDURE
9.00
It is understood that in the event overtime is required, either
for additional hours or to replace an employee who is absent,
the work will be offered in the following order:
A)	To the employee who is working on the same machine or task (including the weekend people who are scheduled to do their eight (8) hours during the week) on the shift in place.
B)	If the preceding paragraph does not permit the overtime work to be assigned, it will be offered to the employees on the shift in place within the same department, on the same job, by order of seniority, provided that they can accomplish the work.
C)	If the employees referred in the foregoing paragraph are not available, the work will be offered to the employees of the department of the shift in place, by order of seniority, provided that they can accomplish the work.
36
D)	If the employees referred in the foregoing paragraph are not available, the work will be offered to the employees on the same job of the other shifts, by order of seniority, provided that they can accomplish the work.
E)	During the summer period as defined in Section 1.06 A) (work performed by students), the Employer may assign students to do overtime if the employees referred to in paragraphs A), B), C), and D) as well as the weekend employees refuse to or are not available to do the work. The overtime will be offered first to the students doing the same job on the shift in place, if any, provided that they can accomplish the work. It is agreed that the students have no priority concerning overtime" work in virtue of the paragraphs A) to D) hereinabove and F) and G) hereinafter.
F)	If the overtime required is for a full shift, the Employer may offer the first ftsar (4) hours of overtime to the employees of the shift in place, and the second four (4) hours of overtime to the following shift in accordance with the procedure outlined above.
Qj If an employee is transferred temporarily in accordance with the provisions of Section 15.12 A) (temporary job change), his regular job will be the one considered for the purposes of distribution of overtime.
37
In order not to compromise the health and safety of
employees, an employee will be deemed to be unavailable if he cannot have a compulsory rest period of at least eight (8) consecutive hours within any twenty-four (24) hour period.
I) If an employee regularly refuses overtime which has been offered to him, it will be the responsibility of the employee to notify his foreman when he is ready to do overtime the next time.
9.01	LOST OVERTIME:
If an employee believes that overtime has not been offered to him according to the above mentioned procedure, he will so notify his foreman. If a new opportunity for overtime is not offered to him within the following week (excluding Saturdays and Sundays when overtime has been scheduled for the employee), then the Employer will pay for the lost overtime.
9.02	OVERTIME ON FRIDAY NTGHTS 13RD SHIFTV SATURDAYSAND SUNDAYS:
If overtime is required on a Friday night (3rd shift), Saturday or Sunday, the following procedure will apply:
A)	The Employer will post a list on Wednesday before noon of the hours available for the weekend, indicating the operations concerned. Employees interested in working overtime hours will have until
38
Thursday at 3:00 p.m, to indicate in a register provided for this purpose that they are available to work. The Employer will make sure to use this register for assigning overtime.
B)	Thereafter, the schedule will follow this respecting order:
-the employee with the most seniority on the job and who has put his name on the availability list. -the employee with the most seniority in the department who is qualified and who has put his name on the availability list.
C)	The commitments not held without valid reason till be considered as unjustified absences.
9.03	OVERTIME, TO REPLACE ABSENT WORKERS ON THE WEEKEND SHIFT:
It is agreed that the procedure to replace an absent employee on a weekend shift will be the following, and based on the use of the employees who have added their name to the availability list provided for in section 9.02 (overtime on Friday nights -3rd shift- Saturdays and Sundays), posted by noon on Wednesday:
A) first by order of seniority to employees whose job it is during the week;
39
B)	then, to other qualified employees of the
department, by order of seniority;
C)	to other qualified employees in the plant, by order of seniority,
SECTION 10
PAYMENT OF OVERTIME
10.00
A)	OVERTIME DURING THE WEEK
All work carried out during the week outside the regular daily hours specified in Section 8 (hours of work) till be paid at one and a half (l'/i) time the regular rate.
B)	OVERTIME ON SATURDAYS:
All work carried out on Saturdays will be paid at one and a half (1%)time the regular rate. This clause does not apply to weekend shifts as outlined in Section21 (schedule for weekend shifts).
C)	OVERTIME ON SUNDAYS:
All work carried out on Sundays will be paid at double the regular rate. This provision does not apply to weekend shifts as outlined in Section21 (schedule for weekends shifts).
40
D)	OVERTIME ON LEGAL HOLIDAYS:
All work carried out on a paid holiday as indicated in Section 12 (legal holidays) (except Christmas Day and/or New Year's Day) will be paid at one and a half (1%)time the regular rate.
Any employee who works on Christmas Day and/or New Year's Day will be paid at double the regular rate.
E)	OVERTIME, - METHOD OE CAT ,Ct J1 .ATTON:
An employee may not receive overtime twice for hours worked during a day or a week of work. Overtime will be paid only for hours which have actually been worked.
It is understood that in the application of this Agreement, an employee may not receive more than one overtime premium at any time for the same period of work.
F)	The calculation of overtime will not include shift premiums.
41
SECTION11
WAGES
11.00 SCHEDULE OFW--------
Except in the case of a new or amended job, the contractual wages will be those which are indicated in the schedule of wages attached to this Agreement.
11.01	PROBATTONARY PERTOD (SALARY):
The rate payable to new employees will be $1.00 in excess of the minimum wage. This rate will be in effect for the first thirty (30) days, after which the employee will receive an additional $1.00 per hour every two (2) months until he reaches the rate applicable to his classification. The Employer may increase this rate more quickly but in any event the employee will receive the rate applicable to his classification after six (6) months.
11.02	PAY DAY
Wages will be paid every week, no later than Thursday, either by cheque or bank deposit, whichever the employee prefers.
Tf pay day falls on a legal holiday, the pay will be handed out on the preceding working day.
42
Any mistake involving more than forty dollars ($40) will be corrected by means of a separate cheque during the same week, provided that the payroll office is notified no later than Thursday before 4:00 p.m., using the form provided for this purpose.
11.03	SHIFT PREMIUM:
A)	2nd shift: premium of $0.15 per hour;
B)	3,d shift: premium of $0.25 per hour.
11.04	CALL-IN PAY
Four Hours of Pap
A)	Every employee who has not been notified in advance that his services will not be required and who reports for work at the usual time to do his regular job, may be assigned by the Employer to do four (4) hours of work, on his regular job or on another job, for which he wdll receive an amount equivalent to four (4) hours at his regular rate.
B)	However, if no work has been assigned to this employee, he will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at his regular rate, provided that he stays in his department, unless he receives a contrary order from representatives of the Employer, except in cases where it is not possible to assign him to his regular job for reasons beyond the control of the Employer, such as steam or power failures or fires.
43
11.05	RECALL TO WORK:
Every employee who has been recalled to work outside of his regular hours will receive a minimum of three (3) hours of pay at his regular rate or one and a half (1%) time his regular rate for the time actually worked, whichever is higher.
In the case of a recall on a legal holiday or a Sunday, the minimum of three (3) hours of pay will be paid at double the regular rate of pay in addition to the one day paid leave, if any.
11.06 INFORMATION REGARDING THE WAGES OF AN EMPLOYEE:
The following information will appear on the stub of the pay cheque of each employee:
1.	Occupation and pay period
2.	Hours:	Regular
Overtime
Total
3.	Earnings:	Regular
Overtime premium shift premium adjustment total
44
Deductions:
5.
6.
7.
8
Net earnings; Accrued to date:
Accrued to date: Accrued to date:
Federal tax Provincial tax Pension plan group insurance unemployment union dues RRSP
Earnings
Vacation
Employee contrib. to group insurance plan
The Employer will indicate on the T4 and Releve 1 slips of every employee the amount of union dues withheld during the year and these slips wilt be issued to the employees no later than February 28 of each year.
11.07	COMPENS A TTON FOR JURY DUTY:
A regular employee who has completed his probationary period and who is required to report for jury duty will receive for every day the difference between his regular rate of pay (not including shift premiums or overtime) for the number of hours that he normally works on his regular shift, and the payment that he will receive for jury duty, The employee has to present proof of his jury duty service and the amount of money he has received or will receive for this.
45
SECTION 12 LEGAL HOLIDAYS
12.00
A) There will be thirteen (13) paid legal holidays, holiday pay being equal to pay for a regular workday:
National Holiday
Canada Day
Labour Day
Thanksgiving
Christmas' Eve
Christmas
Boxing Day
Day After Boxing Day
New Year's Eve
New Year's Day
Day After New Year's Day
Good Friday
Easter Monday
g) Every employee having completed his probation period may take two floating days per calendar year, subject to the following conditions:
1.	When the employee wishes to take a floating day, he will have to make a request to his supervisor at least three (3) working days in advance. The request will have to be made in writing using the form provided for this purpose. The supervisor must respond as soon as possible to the employee's request.
46
2,	The supervisor will allow one floating day for a maximum of one job per day, where the needs of production allow.
3,	When more than one employee makes a request for the same job and the same day, the request of the senior employee will prevail.
4,	It is understood that these floating days are neither cumulative nor transferable from one year to the next.
Where the employee has not used his floating leave days by December 15 of the year they will be added as paid days off to the legal holidays for the holiday period. In the case of laid off employees who so wish, floating leave days that are unused within the meaning of this paragraph may be paid as half days.
C)	ET TGIBIT ITY FOR A TEGAT . HOLIDAYS-
To be eligible for payment on legal holidays, an
employee has to meet the following requirements:
a)	He has to have been employed by the Employer for a period of thirty (30) calendar days.
b)	He has to have worked a full shift on the working day immediately preceding and immediately following the holiday in question, except in the following cases:
47
if there is a death in the family as provided for
in Section 13 (bereavement leave);
2)	in the case of lay-off, an employee will be eligible if his period of absence does not exceed twenty-one (21) consecutive calendar days immediately preceding the holiday. However, an employee with more than four (4) years of seniority will be eligible if his period of absence does not exceed thirty (30) consecutive calendar days immediately preceding the holiday;
3)	in the case of sickness or accident certified by a doctor's certificate, an employee will be eligible if his period of absence does not exceed one week immediately preceding the holiday;
4)	he has to have received a prior written permission from the Employer;
5)	however, if an employee has not worked on the working days preceding and following a legal holiday and if there is more than one consecutive legal holiday, the Employer may not penalize an employee for more than one legal holiday.
48
If an employee does not qualify to receive payment for the National Holiday under the preceding clauses, he will nevertheless be entitled to payment if he was entitled to wages or an indemnity in lieu thereof for at least ten (10) days of the period from June 1 to June 23.
12.01	If any of the legal holidays mentioned above fall on a day which is not a working day, the holiday vdU be granted on the preceding or following day, as agreed between the parties.
SECTION 13 PERSONAL HOLIDAYS
13.00 BEREAVEMENT T.F.AVF.:
A)	The Employe: agrees to compensate an employee for lost salary up to a maximum of five (5) days, four (4) days or two (2) days, as the case may be, in the event of death in the immediate family:
-	Spouse, children: five (5) days.
-	Father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother or sister: four (4) days.
-	Brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law or grandparents: two (2) days.
49
B) It is understood that an employee may not claim
payment for a bereavement leave unless the death occurs on a working day on which the employee would normally have worked. The employee must submit a proof of the death deemed acceptable by the Employer.
13.01	WEDDING LEAVE:
An employee may be absent for one (1) day without reduction in pay on his wedding day or the previous day.
An employee may also be absent from work, without pay, on the wedding day of one of his children, his father, his mother, his brother, his sister or his spouse's child.
SECTION 14 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
14.00 A) The Employer may grant in writing a leave of absence without pay to an employee who personally asks for it. This request must be made in writing to the Director of Human Resources, indicating the reason for and the length of the leave of absence and accompanied by pertinent documents in support of the request.
In the event that such a leave of absence is granted, the employee will continue to accrue his seniority up to twelve (12) months, After this twelve (12) month period, his seniority will be maintained but will no longer accrue.
50
B)	If an employee works elsewhere during a leave of absence he will lose all of his seniority, unless he has been previously authorized by the Employer in writing to do so.
SECTION IS SENIORITY
15.00 DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this Agreement, seniority means the total length of service of an employee, subject to the following conditions:
A) PROBATIONARY PERIOD:
In order to acquire seniority rights within the meaning of this Agreement, except for Section 15.13 (transfer from a union to a staff job), an employee must have completed a probationary period of seventy-five (75) full days actually worked in the bargaining unit within a period not exceeding twelve (12) months.
Once his probationary period is completed he has acquired seniority rights and the date of his seniority is established retroactively to seventy-five (75) working days prior to the date of completion of the probationary period.
51
No grievance may be submitted with respect to the
dismissal, transfer, demotion or lay-off of an employee during his probationary period. However, unless there are contrary provisions, such an employee till enjoy the other rights and privileges set forth in this Agreement.
Moreover, it is understood that an employee who works in several departments during his probationary period till have his seniority credited to him in the last department where he completes his probationary period. However, this does not apply to temporary transfers which are made at the request of the Employer.
B) ACCRUAL OF SENIORITY
In cases of lay-off, sickness or accident, an employee till continue to accrue seniority as long as he does not lose it, within the meaning of Sections 15.01 D) or 15.01 E) (loss of seniority) as the case may be. However, in cases covered by an Act respecting industrial accidents and occupational diseases (administered by the C.S.S.T.), an employee continues to accrue seniority for a maximum of twenty-four (24) months.
15.01	LOSS OF SENIORITY:
An employee loses both his seniority and his job when he: A) voluntarily leaves the employment of the Employer;
52
B)	is dismissed for just cause and the dismissal is not reversed or amended through the grievance procedure;
C)	fails to report for work after a lay-off within seven (7) days after a notice has been sent to him by registered mail by the Employer. If the employee notifies the Employer within forty-eight (48) hours following receipt of a recall notice that he intends to return to work but claims to be incapable of doing so at the specified time for reasons beyond his control, his name will be left on the seniority list provided that the reasons given by him are acceptable;
D)	is absent without permission and without a valid reason for three (3) consecutive working days;
E)	is absent because of a lay-off, sickness or accident not covered by the C.S.S.T., in accordance with the following:
-	less than one year: after an absence of one (l)year;
-	from one (l)year to less than five (5) years: after an absence of eighteen (18) months;
■ five (5) years or more: after an absence of twenty-four (24) months.
F)	an employee who is absent from work due to an occupational injury compensated by the C.S.S.T. continues to accrue seniority for a period not exceeding twenty-four (24) months.
S3
APPLICATION OF SENIORITY:
15.02
The following rules will be applied first of all to employees of the department concerned, before choosing someone else in the plant.
The departments are defined as follows:
Loop Finishing;
Mixing;
Carding Sliver Knitting;
SliverFifiishing;
Dyehouse;
Shipping;
Maintenance.
15.03
A)	DF.FTNTTTON OFTHF.TF.BM "JOB OPF.NTNG" ■
For the purposes of this Section15 (seniority), a job opening results from the normal turnover of personnel due to reasons such as retirement, new job, resignation, death, promotion, dismissal, demotion, transfer outside the bargaining unit, or increase of employees in a job category. The foregoing provision does not have the effect of requiring the Employer to post job openings which it does not want to fill. However, the Employer agrees to advise in writing the Union of the reasons for its decision not to post such job openings.
54
B)	1) OPENING FOR A PERMANENT TOB:
The Employer will post job openings for all permanent job openings for a period of two (2) working days, first of all in the department concerned.
If, at the end of this period, no employee of the department has applied or been retained to fill this permanent job opening, the Employer will then post the job opening in the plant for a period of two (2) working days, and the employees of the department wall no longer be entitled to apply for this job.
In all cases, employees who wish to apply for a job must complete the posting form available from their foreman. Upon expiry of the posting period, a copy of the posting form will be given to the Union.
In the case of an opening for a permanent job, seniority will prevail among the applicants, provided that the employee has the required qualifications and skills for the job.
If the employee possesses these qualifications, he must be able to do the work required following a training period.
For the purposes of applying, employees who, when the job opening is posted, have obtained a job in another department in accordance with the bumping provisions set out in section 1S.08 C 3-4-5-6-7 (lay-off for more than fifteen (15) days), will be deemed to belong to their
55
original department if the six (6)-month period provided for in section 15.10 (bumping in the plant) is not over.
2)	An employee who is absent for reasons already provided for in this Agreement during the posting period may apply through a Union representative or another employee having been given a proxy indicating the job and the shift being applied for. It is understood that the applicant who is selected must be available within the five (5) working days following his being retained for the job, in accordance with the provisions of Sectionsl5.04
A)	and 15.04 B) (opening for a permanent job -leadhand). Notwithstanding section 15.04 C), there will be a temporary posting when the employee is not available.
3)	New employees who have completed their probationary period may apply in their own department. To apply in another department, an employee must have one (1) full year of seniority to his credit.
4)	Employees who are eligible to apply for a job must not have obtained a new job during the past six (6) months.
56
15.04	OPENING FOR A PERMANENT JOB
LEADHAND:
A) In the case of an opening for a permanent job for the positions below, the Employer till apply most often than not seniority provided that the applicant has the competence, skills and efficiency to accomplish the work.
Mixing Room Cardroom Sliver Knitting Finishing Sliver Dyehouse
Loop Finishing
Shipping
Maintenance
Leadhand (stockroom) Leadhand (mechanic) Leadhand (mechanic) Leadhand
Leadhand (stockroom and preparation)
Leadhand Leadhand Leadhand (finisher) Leadhand (shipper) Leadhand (mechanic)
*Leadhand: position held by an employee who possesses the required skills to aide the supervision in planning the production work and the quality control. The leadhand may be called to replace temporarily an employee on a task related to production.
Every leadhand is tributary in the same manner as the other employees of the rights and obligations provided in this agreement.
57
However, it is understood that upon the occurrence of a layoff, the leadhands will not, because of their title, displace a regular floater.
B)	Whenever the Employer foresees a vacancy for any job, for example in case of retirement, and when the Employer has been notified of such vacancy far enough in advance for it to train a replacement, it is understood that such vacancies will be filled according to the provisions of Sections 15.03 B) (opening for a permanent job) or 15.04 A) (opening for a permanent job leadhand) as the case may be.
C)	Except under exceptional circumstances, an employee who has been selected to fill a permanent job opening is assigned to the said job within a period not exceeding fifteen (15) working days.
15.05
A) An employee who obtains a new job in his own department pursuant to the "Opening for a Permanent Job" clause may return to his former job within five (5) working days.
If an employee returns voluntarily to his previous job on the first day after obtaining the new one, he will not be entitled to apply for another job for a period of one (1) month. If he returns voluntarily to his old job on the
58
second working day after obtaining the new one, he will not be entitled to apply for another job for a period of two (2) months, and so on up to a maximum of five (5) months.
The foregoing paragraph does not apply when an employee is transferred to the same job within another shift.
An employee who, following a posting, obtains a new job in another department including a department in which the employee has worked for less than two (2) months during the twelve (12) months preceding the posting date, may return to his old job at any time during a period not exceeding the lessor of the training period for the position , or ten (10) working days from the day he obtains the new one.
If he returns voluntarily to his old job on the first day after obtaining the new one, he may not apply for another job for one (1) month. If he returns voluntarily to his old job on the second day after obtaining the new one, he may not apply for another job for two (2) months, and so on up to a maximum of ten (10) months.
For the purposes of this section, the training periods are those listed in Appendix (F) of this Agreement. These periods in no way guarantee that the instructors vdH be paid for a certain length of time; this question is determined by the training program for each machine. With the consent of the Labour Relations Committee (Grievance committee) the Employer may modify the
59
length of a training period in order to reflect the
adjustments necessary, according to the experience acquired through the formal training program. If the parties do not come to an agreement, then in the ten (10) working days following the Employer's decision on the length of training, the Union may raise the question under the grievance procedure directly at the 2nd stage and in such a case, the mediator designated to hear the disagreements relative to Section 7 (work load) of the collective agreement will be named to rule on the grievances.
If no proceedings are instituted within this time period, the new training period shall be deemed established and accepted by the parties.
When a grievance has been submitted, the new training period till remain in force until a final decision on the grievance is rendered.
B)	An employee who obtains a new job in virtue of Section 15.03 B) (opening for a permanent job) or 15.04 A) (opening for a permanent job - leadhand) may be sent back at any time by the Employer to his previous job within fifteen (15) working days following the completion of his training period, if the Employer is of the opinion that his work is not satisfactory.
C)	When a job opening is filled by an employee covered by this Agreement, the job which he had previously then becomes vacant.
60
However, after two (2) employees per posting have tried a vacant position and been returned to their previous jobs, or if a permanent job opening has been posted for which there has been no application, or if those who have applied have not obtained the job, the Employer will fill the job opening with
1.	An employee who has been laid off, provided that he can do the work without training.
2.	Next an employee who has been laid off, in accordance with the requirements of Sectionsl5.03 B) (opening for a permanent job) or 15.04 A) (opening for a permanent job - leadhand) as the case may be. In this case, notwithstanding Sectionl5.10 (bumping in the plant), an employee who accepts a job within another department while he is being laid-off shall be deemed to have applied for a new job for the purposes of Section 15.03 B) 4) (opening for a permanent job).
3.	Next by someone from the outside.
15.06	CHOICE OF SHIFTS:
The following provisions will govern the choice of shifts in the case of temporary vacancies.
When there are three (3) shifts in operation in a department where the night shift is permanent, and if there has been a temporary opening for more than twenty (20) working days
61
on a macliine, an employee who normally works on that machine in that department on a regular shift may use his seniority rights to choose one of the other two shifts.
15.07	TEMPORARY VACANCIES:
A) When the Employer has been advised that an employee will be temporarily absent from his work for a period of twenty (20) consecutiveworking days or more, he will be replaced temporarily in accordance with Section 15.06 (choice of shifts) of this Agreement. Once the employees normally working on the same machine on the thirdshift will have availed themselves of the provisions of Section 15.06 (choice of shifts), the Employer will fill the ensuing temporary vacancy in the manner that it deems the most practical.
However, if employees normally working on the same job do not avail themselves of the provisions of Section 15.06 (choice of shifts), the most senior employee currently doing another job in the department where the temporary vacancy has occurred will have the right to fill such vacancy, provided that he is qualified to do the work and that his replacement does not need training. The Employer will then fill the ensuing temporary vacancy in the manner that it deems the most practical. When the employee who was absent returns to work, employees who have been transferred to another shift and/or job will return to their previous job and/or shift.
62
The foregoing does not compel the Employer to fill temporary vacancies. However, the Employer agrees to advise in writing the Union of the reasons not to post such job openings.
B) In the case of a temporary vacancy, if no employee from the department is interested in the vacancy, the Employer will apply the rules set forth in Section 15,05 C), (1), (2) and (3).
15.08	A) LAY-OFF - UP TO TWO (2) DAYS:
If it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees on a job in a department for a period not exceeding two (2) working days, employees assigned to such job and shift will be laid off without taking into account seniority. It is understood that employees so laid off will not have the right to bump other employees.
B) LAY-OFF - FROM THREE (3) TO FIFTEEN f!5~> DAYS:
If it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees on a job in a department for more than two (2) working days up until fifteen (15) days, employees assigned to such job and shift will be laid off in reverse order of seniority. It is understood that employees so laid off will be entitled to bump the least senior employee on a job in the same department, provided that he can do the job without training.
63
C) FAY-OFF- MORE THAN FTFTFFN (IS) DAYS:
Employees laid off for more than fifteen (15) days may
bump the least senior employee on another job, on the
shift of his choosing, in the following order:
1.	within his department, provided that he has completed his probationary period and is capable of doing the job without training;
2.	failing this, also within his department, provided that he would be capable of doing the job after a training period not exceeding five (5) days;
3.	within another department of the same division, provided that he has at least one (1) year of seniority and is capable of doing the job without training;
4.	failing this, also within his division, provided that he would be capable of doing the job after a training period not exceeding five (5) days;
5.	within a department of another division, provided that he has at least one (1) year of seniority and that he is capable of doing the job without training;
6.	failing this, also within a department of another division, provided that he would be capable of doing the job after a training period not exceeding five (5) days;
64
7.	as a last resort, an employee with one (1) year of seniority who has been laid off and is unable to maintain his employment pursuant to the foregoing paragraphs may use his bumping rights to secure another job within the plant, provided that he bumps an employee who has the least seniority on the job and that he would be capable of doing the work after a training period not exceeding one (1) day per year of seniority on the new job to the extent of fifteen (15) working days of training.
It is understood that upon subsequent lay-offs, an employee who will bump an employee from another department will have to use his bumping rights for a job which he is capable of doing without training before using it to obtain a job where he would need training.
For the purposes of this Section, the divisions are as follows:
SLIVER DIVISION (4 departments):
Mixing;
Carding;
Sliver Knitting;
Sliver Finishing;
LOOP DIVISION (2 departments):
Loop Finishing;
Dyehouse;
65
SERVICE DIVISION (2 departments)!
Maintenance;
Shipping;
15.09	RULES FOR BUMPING
The right to bump in the same department applies to employees who have completed their probationary period.
15.10	BUMPING IN THE PLANT
A)	If work resumes in their previous department within six (6) months following a bumping, employees who have used their bumping rights or who have been bumped must return to their previous job and department.
If the six (6) month period has expired since the bumping, the employee till then be entitled to choose between his old and his new job.
B)	Bumping / unsuccessful tryout
It is understood that if after a training period resulting from a bumping or a recall an employee is not fully capable of doing the job, the employee till be laid off.
66
15.11 SPECIAL CASES:
As regards employees who are unable to carry out their fegiilar job for health reasons, following an occupational injury or illness covered by the C.S.S.T,, the Employer or the employee may ask for a transfer to another job, firstly in his own department and afterwards in the plant. The employee may bump the least senior employee on the job and shift of his choosing in his department, provided that he has already carried out that job in a satisfactory manner or, if such is not the case, provided that he would be able to do the work after a training period not exceeding fifteen (15) working days. In all these cases there must be a written agreement between the Employer and the Union to authorize such bumping.
15.12	TEMPORARYJOB CHANGE:
It is understood that the job appearing on the seniority list will be the regular job of an employee.
Moreover, it vail be the Employer's policy not to unwarrantably and excessively transfer the employees from their regular jobs.
^ Employees transferred temporarily and for mote than four (4) hours to a j ob other than their regular job vsflj be paid the hourly wage applicable to such job or to his regular job, whichever is higher.
67
B) An employee may be called temporarily to do another
type of work in function of the specific needs of production or if there is a lack of work on his own job. In this case, the Employer will strive to reassign the employee to his regular job when work resumes thereat.
15.13	TRANSFER FROM A TINT ON TO A STAFFTOB:
An employee transferred outside the bargaining unit will continue accumulating his seniority in the bargaining unit for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months. If he does not return after twelve (12) months he will lose all of his seniority rights within the meaning of this collective agreement.
15.14	SENIORITY LIST:
A seniority list will be posted in each department, indicating the name and seniority of each employee in this department as well as the length of his continuous service with the Employer. The list will be revised every six (6) months. Copies of these posted lists will be given to the Union promptly. Such a list will become official if uncontested through the grievance procedure after a period not exceeding thirty (30) days.
Where employees have the same seniority, their names will appear on this list according to their family name and in alphabetical order. This rule rail always be used to break equality of service between employees hired on the same day in order to determine the order of seniority.
68
15.15	RECALL PROCEDURE:
When a permanent job opening occurs after employees have been laid off, and following application of Section 15.10 (bumping in the plant), the Employer will recall, by order of seniority and without posting, the employees:
A)	Who were in the same department at the time of lay-off provided that they are certified for the said job;
B)	If the employer cannot fill the vacancy pursuant to the foregoing paragraph, the work will be offered, by order of seniority, to the employees of the department who were laid-off and that possess the skills, competence and experience to accomplish the job following a maximum training period of five (5) days.
C)	Who were in another department at the time of lay-off provided that they are certified for the said job.
E>) If the employer cannot fill the vacancy pursuant to the foregoing paragraph, the work will be offered by order of seniority to the employees of another department who were laid-off and that possess the skills, competence and experience to accomplish the job following a maximum training period of five (5) days.
In the case of paragraphs C) and D), the employee will be deemed to have secured the job by posting and he will be subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
69
15,16	NOTICE OF CHANGE IN AN EMPLOYEE'S FILE:
It is the duty of employees to advise the Employer promptly of all changes in their addresses or telephone numbers. If an employee fails to carry out this obligation, the Employer will not be responsible if this employee does not receive a notice which may be addressed to him or if it cannot communicate with the employee in question.
15.17	SIMULTANEOUS TRAINING:
The Employer will not be required to train more than two (2) employees at any one time per department. If there are more than two (2) employees to be trained at the same time in the same department, the Employer will respect seniority.
SECTION 16
ANNUAL PAID VACATIONS
16.00	A) An employee who, as of May31 of each year, has completed less than a year of continuous service with the Employer is entitled to one (1) vacation day for each month of continuous service, to the extent of ten (10) vacation days.
An employee who, as of May 31 of each year, has completed one (1) year of continuous service with the Employer is entitled to two (2) weeks of vacation.
An employee who, as of May 31 of each year, has completed five (5) years of continuous service with the Employer is entitled to three (3) weeks of vacation.
70
An employee who, as of May 31 of each year, has completed five (20) years of continuous service with the Employer is entitled to four (4) weeks of vacation.
B)	The Employer will provide to employees each year, no later than March 15, a vacation form on which they will indicate the dates on which they would like to take their vacation. Employees who want to take their vacation in the summer period, which for the purposes of this section is defined as June, July and August, will advise the Employer prior to April 15.
The Employer will post the vacation list no later than May 1st and will grant to employees who so desire and who qualify under paragraph A) a maximum of three (3) weeks of vacation during the summer period.
C)	The Employer will attempt to allocate vacation according to the wishes of the employees and their seniority. The Employer undertakes to release at least twenty percent (20%) of the employees of a department each week in the summer period. If feasible without interfering with the requirements of production, the Employer may, at his discretion, exceed this percentage.
D)	An employee may also elect to take up to one week of vacation in non-consecutive days; he shall file his request with the Employer at least ten (10) days in advance. To this effect, the choice of vacation days shall be made after all other employees have made their choice for regular vacation weeks.
71
16.01 The years of continuous service used to calculate
the vacation pay to which an employee is entitled, in accordance with Section 16.00 (annual paid vacations), will be calculated as of May 31 preceding the annual vacation.
16.02	Every employee who wishes to postpone his vacation may do so, provided that he does not request the dates already chosen by another employee in accordance with the provisions of Section 16.00 (annual paid vacations) of this Agreement.
Moreover, he must obtain the written approval of his foreman at least fifteen (15) days prior to the time to which he would like to postpone his vacation.
16.03	A) Every employee who quits his job or who is dismissed before his annual vacation will receive the percentage to which he is entitled according to the table below based on his length of service.
B) The deduction of income taxes on the weeks and parts of weeks will be calculated and withheld for each week or part of week and not on the total of remuneration.
72
16.04	A) The total vacation pay which every employee is entitled to will be based on his continuous service with the Employer and calculated based on gross salary:
In addition to that, the employeeswith 25 years of service will receive a lump sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) yearly on the anniversary of their starting date.
B) If an employee is absent because of sickness, accident or maternity leave during the reference year and if this absence has the effect of reducing the annual holiday pay to which he is entitled, he will be entitled to an amount equal to double (if he has one (1) year but less than five (5) years of continuous service) or triple (if he has five (5) years of seniority or more) the average weekly salaiy earned during the period that he worked. The employee who has less than one year of continuous service is entitled to this amount in proportion to the vacation days accrued by him.
4%	2	Weeks
5.25%	2	Weeks
6%	3	Weeks
6.25%	3	Weeks
7%	3	Weeks
7.25%	3	Weeks
8.25%	3	Weeks
8.75%	4	Weeks
9.25%	4	Weeks
10.75%	4	Weeks
73
16.05
The vacation pay which is due to each employee according to 'the proportionate rates specified in paragraph 16.04, will be given to the employee at the same time as his last regular pay preceding the vacation.
However, an employee may ask to receive his annual vacation pay in several instalments if he has a split vacation.
SECTION 17
CONTRIBUTIONS TO GROUP INSURANCE
17.00	The Employer and the Union agree that employees will be entitled to the benefits of the group insurance in the manner and subject to the conditions outlined below.
The two (2) parties agree that employees will be insured by the group insurance plan described below.
This plan will be administered by an insurance company to be determined hereinafter referred to as the "Insurer". Three months before the date of expiry of the insurance policy, one of the parties will be able to tender. The registrar of charges, the name of the tenderers as well as their tenders shall be made available to both parties and to the committee provided for in paragraph A. Any future change of insurer will be made only by mutual agreement between the parties.
74
N
The insurance benefits will be outlined in the insurance certificate which will be issued in the name of the parties signing this Agreement. The two (2) parties also agree on the following points:
A)	A committee of four (4) members, two (2) of which being designated by each party, will be formed for the proper administration of the plan. The members of the committee may call experts if required.
It is understood that the members representing the Union on this committee may not come from the same department and must be members of the executive committee.
B)	This committee, unless there are major or urgent problems, will meet once a year, more specifically at the end of a contractual year in order to analyze the experience of the past year, as prepared, in the presence of representatives of the Insurer.
C)	The committee may make recommendations to the two parties concerning the tenders obtained following the application of this section.
D)	The two (2) parties will discuss with the Insurer all changes in the provisions of the master policy, changes in benefits, changes which may affect the weekly premium or any other matter pertaining to the general administration of the insurance plan.
75
The Employer and the Union will advise the Insurer i«
writing of the only authorized representatives of the two (2) parties who may communicate with the Insurer.
A copy of all correspondence from the Insurer pertaining to the general administration of the plan must be transmitted to each of the two (2) co-signing parties of the master policy.
17.01
Any future change will be negotiated by the two (2) parties.
It is understood that during the term of this Agreement, the
Employer will not be obliged to increase its contribution
beyond the amounts specified in paragraph B,
A)	Provided that the Employer maintains its premiums at their current rate, the Employer agrees to accept all changes in employee benefits, except for the salary insurance, which may not at any time exceed sixty percent (60%) of the employee's salary.
B)	The Employer agrees to contribute fifty percent (50%) of the total insurance coverage actually in force upon the time of signature of the present agreement, except the dental plan for which the responsibility will continue to be incumbent on the employees.
The Employer agrees to maintain its contributions to the current group insurance and hospital plans on a 5050 basis between the Employer and the employees.
76
Should there be an increase or decrease during the term of this Agreement, adjustments will also be made on a 50-50 basis.
17.02
A)	All employees will be eligible for the insurance plan described herein after having completed seventy-five (75) working days of continuous service for the Employer. It is understood that all new employees must become members of this insurance plan, failing which an employee who subsequently decides to become a member of the plan will have to provide a proof of insurability for himself and his dependents.
B)	An employee who is absent from work for reasons such as illness, accident, lay-off, leave of absence, suspension or maternity leave will be responsible for his share of insurance premiums during his absence. An employee has to pay the Employer the required monthly contributions on a monthly basis. If an employee' payments are more than one month late, the Employer will cancel such employee's insurance, subject to a prior notice of seven (7) days sent by registered mail.
Notwithstanding the above, the Employer agrees to assume one hundred per cent (100%) of the costs of the premiums (to the exception of the dental plan) for the first thirty (30) days of absence for the following reasons: sickness, accident, professional lesion, maternity leave, parental leave and lay-off.
77
C)	The Employer will provide to employees forms authorizing deductions on their behalf, will make these deductions from the weekly salary of the employee, and will forward to the Insurer the group premiums as well as all necessary information pertaining to invoicing and claims as required by the Insurer. The Insurer, through the Employer, will issue membership cards to all employees.
D)	Any excess contributions and/or refunds of premiums will be deposited in the account of the beneficiaries of the group insurance. Such sums can only be used for the purchase of additional benefits, in addition to those which are already in place, or for readjusting the employee premiums. It is understood that the Insurer will provide to the two (2) parties signing this Agreement, once a year or upon request, a statement of the financial situation for the group in question.
E)	If a federal or provincial legislation on health insurance is adopted, the parties hereto agree to renegotiate the group insurance plan presently in force.
SECTION 18 BULLETIN BOARDS
18.00
The Employer will allow the Union to use the bulletin board for notices. Such bulletin boards will be placed in locations agreed to by the parties and will be used to announce the dates of meetings and other activities and information of the
78
Union. Every notice must be initialed by the President or another officer authorized by the Union and all notices must have received the prior approval of the Director of Human Resources of the Employer before being posted.
SECTION 19 HEALTH AND SAFETY
19.00
The Employer will continue to take the necessary measures in order to ensure the health and the safety of its employees on the work premises. The Union and the employees will support and cooperate with the Employer in its efforts to prevent accidents.
19.01	WORK ACCIDENT
A)	It is understood that an employee having suffered a work accident within the meaning of an Act respecting industrial accidents and occupational diseases will receive his regular rate of pay for the time lost on the day of the accident.
B)	The Employer agrees to transport at its expense and in the most convenient and safe manner any employee who has suffered a work accident and who requires care outside the plant.
79
19.02
The Employer and the Union agree to form a health and safety committee to discuss all matters relating to the health and safety of employees at work. The committee is composed of two (2) members designated by the Union and two (2) members designated by the Employer. This committee will meet once a month during working hours, without loss of pay (including the shift premium). Minutes of the meetings c£ this committee will be kept in order to control the efficiency of this committee.
19.03
The Employer will provide the means of protection required by the law in order to protect its employees against injury.
The Employer will also provide a first-aid kit on all shifts, in an appropriate location. The parties will also appoint a person having received training in health and safety matters on each shift.
19.04
The Employer has the right to send home any employee who shows up for work or works while intoxicated or under the influence of drugs or if he seems to present a danger to his own security or to that of other employees or to the property of the employees of the Employer.
80
19.05
The Employer will supply one pair of rubber boots to each employee and replace them when necessary.
19.06
Each year, the Employer will pay a maximum of seventy (70) dollars for a pair of work boots to every employee whose duties require that they be worn for safety reasons. Under exceptional circumstances, the Employer may pay this amount more than once in the same year, provided that the employee proves that he needs a new pair and returns the old pair to his foreman.
SECTION 20
LETTERS OR OTHER AGREEMENTS
20.00
It is understood that during the term of this Agreement all letters or other agreements attached hereto and signed by the two parties will form an integral part hereof provided that they have been filed in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Code.
81
SECTION 21
SCHEDULE FOR WEEKEND SHIFTS
21.00
All provisions to the contrary specified elsewhere in this Agreement or appendixes thereto are subject to the following:
REQUIREMENTS AND INFORMATION:
In order to meet the requirements of production and to respond more adequately to the requirements of the market place, the Employer, when it deems it necessary, may introduce this schedule for any job, section of department, department or for the whole plant in accordance with the following provisions.
It is understood that the Employer will inform the Union in advance.
Before instituting the weekend schedule, it is also agreed that the Employer will ensure that the employees work their normal work week in the department or in the departments concerned as specified in this Agreement.
The provisions of the foregoing paragraph will apply at all times throughout the term of the weekend schedule.
Except for reasons beyond the control of the Employer, it is understood that every employee who works during the week on the same machines will not suffer any loss of salary for
82
hours worked during the week pursuant to the two (2) preceding paragraphs.
It is understood that the above provisions do not apply to employees who ordinarily work during the week and who have been laid off following transfers caused by the stoppage of a weekend shift.
21.01
Employees who have been designated to work on the twelve (12) hour weekend shift will be entitled to two (2) periods of twenty (20) minutes each for meals in an authorized location at a time as close as possible to the middle of their shift. It is understood that their will be no interruption of production.
Employees who have been designated to work on the twelve (12) hour weekend shift will be entitled to two (2) periods of ten (10) minutes each for rest in an authorized location during the shift. It is understood that there will be no interruption c£ production.
21.02	WAGES AND OVERTIME PREMIUM:
A)	The work week is comprised of thirty-two (32) hours divided in two days of twelve (12) hours on Saturdays and Sundays and one day of eight (8) hours during the week.
83
It is however understood that the parties must agree an the jobs to be done during the eight (8) hours to be worked during the week.
This eight (8) hour-day during the week will be offered and chosen by seniority among the weekend employees.
Employees will receive in excess of their basic rate a premium of 33.3% for hours worked on Saturdays and Sundays and their regular rate for the eight (8) hour day scheduled during the week in accordance with this Section.
If a weekend employee works outside of his normal hours, he will receive an overtime premium as provided for in this Agreement for all hours so worked.
B)	If the Employer cannot provide any work during a period of time due to a machine breakdown or lack of work for reasons beyond its control, the salary of the employee will be maintained and the Employer will be entitled to assign the employee to another job during that period provided that this does not result in any layoff among week employees.
21.03 SHIFT PREMIUMS:
It is understood that shift premiums will be as set forth in this Agreement.
84
21.04 JOB OPENINGS:
A) Upon execution of this Agreement, the Employer will fill the positions in accordance with the provisions of Sectionsl5.03 (opening for a permanent job) and 15.04 (opening for a permanent job - leadhand) of this Agreement and the same will apply to future positions.
JJ) If the employee so bumped does not want to or cannot exercise his bumping rights on a weekend shift within his department, he will be entitled to bump the least senior employee on this job within his department on the week shift of his choosing, with a training period of fifteen (15) days.
Failing this, an employee who has one (1) year of seniority may bump a less senior employee doing the same job in another department on the shift of his choosing with a training period of fifteen (15) days.
21,05	PERSONAL LEAVE:
It is understood that employees working on the weekend schedule will receive a wage equal to the wages lost if they have to absent themselves due to a death in their immediate family.
85
21.06 LEGAL HOLIDAYS:
A)	If a legal holiday within the meaning of Section 12 (legal holidays) falls on a scheduled working day of the employee, the employee will receive his regular basic rate, including a premium if applicable, for the number of normal daily hours.
B)	If a legal holiday falls on a non-scheduled day of the employee, the employee will receive an amount equal to eight (8) hours at his regular basic rate.
C)	If a legal holiday falls on a weekend or on a scheduled week day on which the employee works, he will receive an addition to the compensation provided for paragraph A) a premium of fifty percent (50%) in excess of his basic rate for the hours worked during the legal holiday.
D’i To be entitled to be paid for legal holidays, an employee must have worked on the working days preceding and following the holiday.
21.07	PROBATIONARY PERIOD:
For employees working the weekend schedule the probationary period will be sixty (60) working days duly worked.
86
21.08 WORKING DAYS:
For the purposes of the weekend schedule, the term "working day" means Saturdays and Sundays and the days scheduled in the week which completes the work schedule of an employee, except for the legal holidays mentioned in Section 16 (annual paid vacations) and the days during which a department is closed or when an employee is not required to report for work.
21.09 TIME LIMITS - GRIEVANCE -ARBITRATION:
A)	For the purposes of applying the prescribed time limits in the grievance and arbitration procedure provided for in Sections (grievance and arbitration procedure), the wotking days will be those specified in 1.05 A) (working day) by adding two (2) days to the first step.
21.10	TEMPORARYTOB OPENINGS:
Under the weekend schedule, and for the purposes of Sectionl5.07 (temporary vacancies), a temporary job opening will be considered as such if the Employer has been informed that an employee will be temporarily absent for twelve (12) or more days. However, the procedure established in Section 15.03 B) (opening for a permanent job) till apply.
87
21.11 CURTAILMENT OF OPERATIONS:
In the event of a curtailment of operations within a department, a department section or on a job, it is understood that the weekend schedule will not be interrupted therein until a full weekend shift has been completed.
Employees so subject to lay-off may be assigned to another job in accordance with the provisions of Sectionsl5.08 (lay-on), 15.09 (rules for bumping), 15.10 (bumping in the plant) and 15.15 (recall procedure) of this Agreement, which shall be amended as follows:
15.08	a) Lay-off- up to two (2) days;
15.08	b) Lay-off—from three (3) days to fifteen (29
days;
15.08	c) Lay off-more than fifteen (Z9 days;
-	The training period offive (5) days is changed to four (4) days;
-	The training period of one (1) day per year o fseniority up to fifteen (IE) days is changed to one (1) day per year of seniority to the extent of twelve (12) days.
15.09	Seventy-five (75) days of seniority is
changed to sixty (60) days.
88
21.12 SIX HOURS OF PAY:
Any employee who has not received prior notice that his services are not required and who reports for work at the usual time and on his regular job, may be assigned by the Employer to do six (6) hours of work for which he vaH be paid the equivalent of six (6) hours of his regular pay or, if this happens on his scheduled day of the week, the employee may be assigned by the Employer to do four (4) hours of work for which he will be paid the equivalent of four (4) hours of his regular pay.
If, however, no work has been assigned to this employee, he will be paid a minimum of six (6) hours at his regular rate if this happens during his regular Saturday and/or Sunday shift or four (4) hours if this happens on his scheduled day of the week, except if, upon his arrival at the plant, it is not possible to assign him to his regular work for reasons beyond the control of the Employer, such as steam or power failure or tires.
21.13 WORK ACCIDENTS:
Under the weekend schedule, employees working on a weekend shift who suffer a work accident (fourteen (14) first days), will be compensated according to the same formula as employees on a five (5) day basis.
In such event a weekend of work is equal to a normal week and the formula to calculate the compensation will apply.
89
21.14 OTHER MATTERS!
ALL other matters which are not referred to in these provisions pertaining to the weekend schedule will be discussed and resolved between the parties at the time of the introduction of this schedule, taking into account all existing laws.
SECTION 22
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
22.00
The negotiating committee will be composed of a maximum of five (5) members selected at the general meeting, who must be regular employees of the Employer and have at least one (1) year of seniority. The members of the negotiating committee will be composed of members of the executive committee.
22.01	PAYMENT AT THE NEGOTIATING TABLE:
The Employer agrees to pay 50% of the salaries in connection with meetings held to negotiate the collective agreement when such meetings are part of the regular shift of the employee, subject to the following conditions:
A) The employee will receive the hourly rate (including the shift premium) applicable to his category as indicated on Appendix "A" this Agreement.
90
B)	No overtime premium will be paid to a member of the negotiating committee for days spent in negotiations.
C)	The parties agree that a maximum of five (5) members will be released to take part in the negotiations.
D)	The Union will pay the remaining 50% of the salaries of the members of the negotiating committee. However, the Employer agrees to administer these funds. The Employer will pay these amounts weekly to the members of the negotiating committee. Thereafter, the Employer will deduct monthly from all amounts due to the Union the sums so paid.
E)	The Employer may fill the positions concerned in the manner it deems the most practical.
F)	If the Employer cannot fill the positions in a satisfactory manner, because of problems resulting, for example, from the fact that two or more employees from the same department were released at the same time, the Employer and the Union should agree on the employees to be released.
22,02	PRINTING OF BOOKLET:
The Employer undertakes to have this Agreement printed and will provide one (1) copy to each employee in accordance with Section 3,06 (introduction of a new employee). The Employer will also pto^dde the Union a pumbef of extra copies as requested by the Union.
91
This Agreement will be drafted in French and English and will include as Appendixes the list of departments and jobs with the corresponding rates of pay. The French version will be the official version. The Union and the Employer wall share the printing costs.
SECTION 23 CORRESPONDENCE
23.00
Notices and other correspondence will be sent, when addressed to the Union, to its President, and when addressed to the Employer, to the Director of Personnel.
SECTION 24 MATERNITY LEAVE
24.00	A) At least three (3) weeks prior to her departure, an employee must give written notice to the Employer of its intention to avail herself of a maternity leave and specifying the date on which the leave will start and the approximate date of her return to work. This notice must be accompanied by a medical certificate certifying the pregnancy and indicating the expected delivery date.
B) Subject to Sections24.08 (maternity leave), 24,09 (maternity leave) and 24,12 (birth or adoption), an employee is entitled to a continuous maternity leave determined by her, not exceeding eighteen (18) weeks, except if the Employer, at her request, agrees to a longer period.
92
24.01
The notice may be less than three (3) weeks if the medical certificate certifies that the employee has to stop working within a shorter period of time.
24.02
The distribution of the maternity leave before and after delivery is at the discretion of the employee, within the following time limits:
A)	The employee may stop working at any time starting form the sixteenth (16th) week before the expected delivery date. However, starting from the sixth (6th) week before the said date, the Employer may demand from a pregnant employee who is still working, in writing, a medical certificate certifying that she is able to work; if the employee fails to provide such certificate to the Employer within eight (8) days, the Employer may require her to start her maternity leave at once by sending her a written notice, with grounds, to that effect.
B)	The date of return to work is determined based on the date on which the employee left work. The duration of the leave is eighteen (18) weeks. If the employee wants to come back to work before this time period, she has to produce a medical certificate showing that she may do so.
Q If the delivery took place after the expected date, the employee is automatically entitled to an extension of her maternity leave equivalent to the period by which she is
93
labs. This extension does not apply if the employee can otherwise have at least two (2) weeks of maternity leave after the delivery.
24.03	A) Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, during the maternity leave, an employee continues to accrue her seniority and remains covered by the life insurance, medication and hospital.
B) An employee on maternity leave remains covered by the benefits in effect at the work place, provided that she continues to make regular contributions to these benefits, of which the Employer also pays his share.
24.04
An employee who forwards to the Employer, before the expiry date of her maternity leave, a medical certificate certifying that her state of health or that of her child demands it, is entitled to an extension of the maternity leave up to six (6) weeks.
24.05
At the end of the maternity leave, the Employer must reinstate the employee in her regular job and grant her the benefits she would have enjoyed had she stayed at work,
24.06
An employee must give written notice to the Employer of her intention to return to work at least two (2) weeks before such date, failing which the Employer is under no obligation to take back the employee until two (2) weeks after she reports back to work.
94
24.07
When a natural miscarriage or a legal abortion takes place before the start of the twentieth (20th) week preceding the expected delivery date, the employee is entitled to a maternity leave without pay not exceeding three (3) weeks.
24.08
If an employee is delivered of a stillborn child after the start of the twentieth (20th) week preceding the expected delivery date, her maternity leave, without pay, will end five (5) weeks after the date of the delivery.
24.09
If the regular job of the employee no longer exists upon her return to work, the Employer must give her all the rights and privileges she would have had at the time the job was abolished, had she been at work,
24.10
If the Employer implements a lay-off, which would have included the employee had she been at work, the employee will retain the same rights as these employees who were actually laid off, in particular with respect to retiring.
24.11
In order to be entitled to a maternity leave, an employee must have worked twenty (20) weeks for the Employer within the twelve (12) months preceding the date of the start^of her maternity leave and be employed by the Employer on the day preceding the notice required under Section 24.00 (maternity leave).
95
24.12 BIRTH OR ADOPTION:
An employee may be absent from work for five (5) days in connection with the birth or adoption of a child. The first two (2) days of absence are paid if the employee is credited with sixty (60) days of continuous service. This leave may be divided into days at the request of the employee. It may not be taken more than fifteen (15) days after the child arrives at the residence of his father or mother. The employee must advise the Employer as soon as possible.
24.13 PARENTAL LEAVE:
The father and the mother of a newborn child and a person who adopts a child who has not reached the age of compulsory school attendance are entitled to a parental leave, without pay, not exceeding fifty-two (52) consecutive weeks. This provision does not apply to an employee who adopts the children of his spouse. The parental leave may begin at the earliest on the date of birth of the child or, in the case of adoption, on the day the child is entrusted to the employee pursuant to adoption procedure or the day the employee leaves his work to travel to a place outside Quebec where the child will be entrusted to him. It shall end no later than seventy (70) weeks after the birth or, in the case of adoption, seventy (70) weeks after the child was entrusted to the employee.
96
SECTION 25
NOTICE OF TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OR LAY-OFF AND CERTIFICATE OF EMPLOYMENT
25.00	The Employer must give written notice to an employee before terminating his contract of employment or laying him off for six months or more. The notice shall be of one week if the employee is credited with less than one year of continuous service, two weeks if he is credited with one year to five years of continuous service, four weeks if he is credited with five years to ten years of continuous service and eight weeks if he is credited with ten years or more of continuous service. The notice of termination of employment given to an employee while he is laid-off is null, except in the case of employment which does not normally last for more than six months each year due to seasonal factors. This Section does not have the effect of depriving an employee from a right granted to him by another legislation.
25.01	Section25,00 (notice of termination of employment or lay-off and certificate of employment) does not apply to an employee:
A)	who has less than three months of continuous service;
B)	whose contract for a fixed term or specific undertaking expires;
C)	who has committed a serious fault;
97
D) whose contract of employment expires or who is laid-off
as a result of a fortuitous event.
SECTION 26
INDEMNITY IN LIEU OF NOTICE
26.00
Except in cases where an employee has committed a serious fault or in the case of a fortuitous event, if the Employer fails to give notice as provided for in Section25 (notice of termination of employment or lay-off and certificate of employment), the Employer must pay the employee, upon his departure, an indemnity in lieu of notice which is equal to the salary the employee would have received during the period equivalent to that of the notice.
26.01	CERTIFICATE OF EMPLOYMENT:
An employee who has been dismissed or who has been laid off for at least six (6) months may request that his Employer give him a certificate of employment stating exclusively the nature and the length of his employment, the starting and termination dates, as well as the name and address of the Employer. The certificate of employment may not refer to the quality of the work or the behaviour of the employee.
98
SECTION 27 RED CIRCLE RATES
27.00
Every employee who has received a red circle rate will continue to receive it throughout the term of this Agreement, unless this Agreement provides for a higher rate for the job or if the employee changes jobs.
SECTION 28
FIXED-PRICE CONTRACTS
28.00
The Employer's policy will be that the work done by the employees shall not usually be accomplished by others for a fixed price. If it becomes necessary for the Employer to give others fixed price work, the Employer agrees so far as the employee whom has completed his probationary period
1.	Will not be laid-off
2.	Will not prevent an employee from being recalled to his former position
3.	Will not cease being an employee of the company
4.	Will not sustain a reduction of his current wage
5.	It will be the Employer's policy to discuss these cases to the Work Relations Committee (grievances).
99
28.01
For installing new machines or for major changes, the Employer may, for a temporary period, hire tradesmen from the outside as long as this does not prejudice the tradesmen who are actually working for the Employer.
28.02	A) When an employee receives equipment or tools from the Employer, he has to:
1.	acknowledge receipt;
2.	be personally responsible for them.
B)	Such piece of equipment or tool may be changed when the foreman determines that it is unusable. An employee cannot get a replacement unless he produces the one that has become unusable in exchange, except under the circumstances specified in Section28.02 C).
C)	Each employee has a responsibility to put his tools under lock and key and no claim for tools stolen outside of working hours will be considered unless there is evidence of forcible entry or it is clear that it is not the fault of the employee that the tools were stolen.
D)	Every employee who is unable, except for reasons beyond his control, to produce equipment or tools provided to him by the Employer will have to pay for them.
100
SECTION 29 GROUP RRSP
29.01
The existing group RRSP will be maintained for the duration of the collective agreement. The choice of the manager of the RRSP and any future changes will be made by nutual agreement between the parties.
For and on behalf of each employee having completed his probationary period, and having specifically authorized it to do so and upon a two (2) months notice, the Employer will withhold and forward monthly and directly to the manager of the group RRSP the amount of the optional contribution indicated by the employee, which amount may be changed no more than twice a year.
As of March 1st, 2000, and for the duration of the agreement, the Employer will make a contribution equal to that of the employee to the extent of 2.0% of the regular hourly rate of all worked hours (including legal holidays and vacation) during the reference year beginning M -ch 1 st of every year.
The employee may not withdraw his contributions to the RRSP as long as he is in the employment of the Employer. If the employee withdraws his contribution to the RRSP, the manager of the RRSP must advise the Employer within fifteen (15) days. The Employer will then cease irrevocably and finally to contribute to the RRSP on behalf of such employee.
101
SECTION30
TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement will come into effect upon execution and will terminate on February 29, 2005.
30.01
Even though the terms and conditions of this Agreement will be in force until February 29,2005, it is agreed that each party may at any time as and from December 1st, 2004 ask for a new collective agreement to be negotiated.
30.02
It is understood between the two parties that this Agreement will remain in force as long as a new collective agreement has not been signed by the parties.
30.03
Increases granted on the hourly rate of each category will be the following:
March 1st, 2000:
March 1st, 2001: March 1st, 2002: March 1st, 2003: March 1st, 2004
thirty (30) cents thirty-two (32) cents thirty-three (33) cents thirty-five (35) cents thirty-five (35) cents
The Employer also agrees to apply the hourly rates provided for herein retroactively to March 1st, 2000 and agrees to pay the amount of the retroactivity for the paid hours (including the shift premium) to permanent and active employees who are in the employ of the Employer on November 26th, 2000.
I02
This amount will be paid no later than December 15th, 2000. The vacation adjustments for the months of March, April and May 2000 and the adjustment for the group RRSP and the 100$ for the employees who have 25 years seniority and more will be paid before February 2nd, 2001.
This Agreement has been signed on_______________________
by the duly authorized representatives of the parties.
Syndicat des Salaries de	Les Usines Huntingdon
Huntingdon Mill (CSD)	(Canada) Ltee
Per:	Per:_______________________
Robert Wallot	Daniel Beaudin
Per: _____________________ _____________________________
John Paquette
Per: _____________________
Shannon Thurston
Per: _____________________
Dorothy Porter
Per: _____________________
Charles Groleau
>g< Rousseau, ionseilier technique FSTV (CSD)
103
DESCRIPTION
STIVER FTNTSHTNO Leadhand
Tenterframe operator Floater
Finishing line operator Crop shear Inspector Packager
Waste bag cleaner* * Tumbler operator Slitter
Tenterframe helper
APPENDIX A SALARIES
March 1	Marchl	Marchl	Marchl	March 1
2000	2001	2002	2003	2004
12.31	12.63	12.96	13.31	13.66
12.24	12.56	12.89	13.24	13.59
12.12	12.44	12.77	13.12	13.47
12.07	12.39	12.72	13.07	13.42
12.02	12.34	12.67	13.02	13.37
11.92	12.24	12.57	12.92	13.27
11.92	12.24	12.57	12.92	13.27
11.92	12.24	12.57	12.92	13.27
11.87	12.19	12.52	12.87	13.22
11.82	12.14	12.47	12.82	13.17
11.82	12.14	12.47	12.82	13.17
104
DESCRIPTION	March 1	March 1	March 1	March 1	March 1
	2000	2001	2002	2003	2004
LOOP FTNTSHTNG					
Leadhand and finisher	12.57	12.89	13.22	13.57	13.92
Squeeze-roll operator and chemical weigher	12.32	12.64	12.97	13.32	13,67
Leadhand	12.31	12.63	12.96	13.31	13.66
Tenterframe operator (santa)	12.25	12.57	12.90	13.25	13.60
Tenterframe operator (m w f )*	12.12	12.44	12.77	13.12	13.47
Finishing line	12.12	12.44	12.77	13.12	13.47
Floater	12.12	12,44	12.77	13.12	13.47
Trial person	12.11	12.43	12.76	13.11	13.46
Waste bag cleaner **	12.01	12.33	12.66	13.01	13,36
Cleaner	12.01	12.33	12.66	13.01	13.36
Napper operator	11.95	12,27	12.60	12.95	13.30
Napper operator single action	11.95	12,27	12.60	12.95	13.30
105
DESCRIPTION LOOP FINISHING ISUITEI	March 1 2000
Packager	11.92
Dryer operator	11.92
Inspector	11.92
General helper	11.82
DYEHOUSE	
Leadhand	12.31
Dye weigher	12.24
Raw stock dyer	12.17
Dyer	12.17
Leadhand and greige preparator	12.05
Pieces mover	11.87
March 1	Match!	March 1	March 1
2001	2002	2003	2004
12.24	12.57	12.92	13.27
12.24	12.57	12.92	13.27
12.24	12.57	12.92	13.27
12.14	12.47	12.82	13.17
12.63	12.96	13.31	13.66
12.56	12.89	13.24	13.59
12.49	12.82	13.17	13.52
12.49	12.82	13.17	13.52
12.37	12.70	13.05	13.40
12.19	12.52	12.87	13.22
106
Leadhand and warehouse keeper	12.31	12.63	12.96	13.31	13.66
Mixer	11.92	12.24	12.57	12.92	13.27
Extractor	11.87	12.19	12.52	12.87	13.22
CARDING					
Leadhand and mecanic	12.31	12.63	12.96	13.31	13.66
Mecatiic	12.12	12.44	12.77	13.12	13.47
Carder	11.92	12.24	12.57	12.92	13.27
SHIPPING					
Leadhand and shipper	12.43	12.75	13.08	13.43	13.78
Shipper*	12.22	12.54	12.87	13.22	13.57
Sample person	12.22	12.54	12.87	13.22	13.57
107
DESCRIPTION
DESCRIPTION	Maicfcl 2000	Mattel			
MAINTENANCE					
Mechanical technician	17.64	17.96	18.29	18.64	18.99
Leadhand and mechanic	14.06	14.38	14.71	15.06	15.41
Electronic mechanic and	shear 13.71	14.03	14.36	14.71	15.06
repairman					
Mechanic first class and					
shear repairman	13.60	13.92	14.25	14.60	14.95
Mechanic second class and					
Mechanic second class and					
shear repairman	12.86	13.18	13.51	13.86	14.21
Mechanic third class	12.61	12.93	13.26	13.61	13.96
Carpenter	12.61	12.93	13.26	13.61	13.96
Trucker and general helper	12.44	12.76	13.09	13.44	13.79
DESCRIPTION STIVER KNITTING	Marcbl 2000	Match! 2001	March 1 2002	March 1 200^	<* **chl 2004
Leadhand and floor mechanic	12.98	13.30	13.63	13.98	14.33
Lead mecanic	12.98	13.30	13.63	13.98	14.33
Floor mecanic	12.36	12.68	13.01	13.36	13.71
Shop mecanic and yam	12.21	12.53	12.86	13.21	13.56
Knitter	11.96	12.28	12.61	12.96	13.31
Knitter helper	11.87	12.19	12.52	12.87	13.22
* PREVIOUS CONVENTI ON: TENTERFRAME OPERATOR-FOAM
**PREVTOUSCONVENTION BLOWERROOM OPERATOR
109
APPENDIX "B" SHIFTS AND HOURS
DYEHOUSE
MIXING ROOM CARDROOM SLIVER KNITTING SLIVER FINISHING LOOP FINISHING
First Shift
07:00 to 15:00:	Rotating
Meals:	11:00-11:30	Breaks: 09:00-09:10
11:30 -12:00	09:10 - 09:20
12:00 -12:30	09:20 - 09:30
Second Shift
15:00 to 2300:	Rotating
Meals:	17:30 - 18:00 Breaks: 21:00 - 21:10
18:00 -18:30	21:10 - 21:20
18:30 -19:00	21:20 - 21:30
Third Shift
23:00 to 07:00:	Not Rotating
Meals:	02:00 - 02:30 Breaks: 05:00 - 05:10
02:30 - 03:00	05:10 - 05:20
03:00 - 03:30	05:20 - 05:30
no
MAINTENANCE
First Shift
07:00 to 15:00:	Not Rotating
Meals:	11:00 -11:30	Breaks:	09:00 - 09:10
11:30 -12:00	09:10 - 09:20
ZOO-12:30	09:20 - 09:30
Second Shift
15:00 to 23:00:	Not Rotating
Meals:	17:30 -18:00	Breaks:	21:00 - 21:10
18:00 -18:30	21:10 - 21:20
18:30 -19:00	21:20 - 21:30
Third Shift
23:00 to 07:00:	Not Rotating
Meals:	02:00 - 02:30	Breaks:	05:00 - 05:10
02:30 - 03:00	05:10 - 05:20
03:00 - 03:30	05:20 - 05:30
SHIPPING First Shift
07:00 to 15:00:	Not Rotating
Meals:	11:00 -11:30	Breaks:	09:00 - 09:10
11:30 -ZOO	09:10 - 09:20
12:00 -12:30	09:20 - 09:30
in
Second Shift
15:00 to 23:00:	Not Rotating
Meals:	17:30- 18:00	Breaks:	21:00-21:10
18:00 - 18:30	21:10 - 21:20
18:30 -19:00	21:20 - 21:30
Third Shift
23:00 to 07:00:	Not Rotating
Meals:	02:00 - 02:30	Breaks:
02:30 - 03:00 03:00 - 03:30
05:00 - 05:10 05:10 - 05:20 05:20 - 05:30
112
APPENDIX "C"
JOB DESCRIPTION
1)	GENERAL HELPER
The task of the General Helper consists primarily in performing the handling related to the operations.
2)	FLOATER
The task of the Floater consists primarily in replacing missing operators on production operations.
3)	DUTIES OF THE T LEADHANDS:
In the context of discussions surrounding the renegotiation of the collective agreement, the Syndicat des salari£(e)s des Usines Huntingdon (C S D) expressed concern about the designation and use ofleadhands.
The parties agreed to establish the following principles to govern the use of leadhands:
1,	Selection criteria shall be established for choosing the leadhands, and will be attached to the forms used for posting the position.
2.	A code of conduct shall be issued that will define and make uniform the duties of the leadhands, and address various questions such as: favoritism in assigning overtime, lay-offs, preferred treatment for fellow Union members, relatives, or friends.
113
3.	The Employer intends to reduce progressively the
number of leadhands in certain departments, a task that should be made easier by the implementation of the new Training Program.
4.	Precise instructions vdH be given to supervisors and to leadhands so as to avoid any favoritism.
5.	The Employer will immediately attend to any situation that conflicts with this document and will take the necessary steps to correct any such situation if it should arise.
] 14
APPENDIX "D"
CERTIFICATION AND PROCEDURE FOR INSTRUCTOR SELECTION
The parties acknowledge the importance of training to the ability, flexibility and advancement of employees. The impact of training is equally critical to the performance of the business in a highly competitive market.
The training programme takes into consideration certain basic principles of the collective agreement, such as seniority, qualifications, and work-related aptitudes of each individual.
CERTIFICATION:
The employer shall keep a register of certification. Certification will attest to the fact that the employee has the skills to do a job without training. Certification will also allow the employee to be considered during the selection process of selecting trainers for a certain job. The training register shall be included with the seniority list in the collective agreement. The register shall be updated monthly and posted in every department.
On the date of this agreement:
A) Every employee will be automatically certified for the job he currently performs, subject to the condition that he has completed the probationary period and the training period for the job. An employee can, in this way, be certified for more than one position.
IIS
B) Every employee will be certified on demand if he shows to
the Employer's satisfaction that he has worked for at least forty (40) hours in a given job for a period of twenty-four (24) months preceding the signature of the collective agreement.
Thereafter, an employee will be certified when he has passed the training programme for the job. An employee can be certified for more than one job.
To maintain his certification for a job, an employee will have to have worked at that job for at least forty (40) hours over the twenty-four (24) preceding months.
SELECTION OF INSTRUCTORS:
The selection of the instructors will follow this procedure:
A)	A department posting will be posted to permit to the candidates to show their interest.
B)	Selection of the successful candidate will be made using an evaluation grid that will take into account the following criteria:
□	Seniority
□	Oral and written communication skills U Skill with the equipment
□	Relevant experience
116
Q An instructor may withdraw from the training program by notifying the supervisor thirty (30) days prior to his withdrawal.
D) The Employer may resiliate an instructor's mandate if the instructor no longer meets established standards.
REMUNERATION:
The instructors will receive, for the hours he devotes to training activities, the hourly rate of his job as well as a 50 cent an hour premium.
TRAINING COMMITTEE:
The Employer and the Union agrees to name a Committee to discuss any question related to training. This Committee is composed of two (2) members nominated by the Union and two (2) members nominated by the Employer. The Committee will meet once a month during work hours, without loss of salary. Minutes of the meetings shall be kept for efficiency.
COMING INTO FORCE OF THE TRAINING PROGRAM:
The training program will come into force progressively beginning on March 1st, 2001. Elowever, the Training Committee may meet monthly until then to discuss the introductory stages of the program. It is agreed that the training program shall be implemented in accordance with the other provisions of the collective agreement.
1)7
APPENDIX "E"
PAY EQUITY
Following the signing of the collective agreement, the parties commit themselves to implementing a pay equity program in conformity with the Pay Equity Act which will be in effect at that moment.
The committee will establish an activity calendar according to a realizations notebook and tools established between the parties in conformitywith the Act.
The Employer shall provide the methods of payment of the compensation adjustments after consulting the pay equity committee.
The compensation adjustments of the predominantly female job classes as well as their methods of payment established in virtue of this Act, will be considered an integral part of the collective agreement applicable to the employees occupying jobs in these classes.
MISCELLANEOUS
SMOKING
The Employer will continue to provide proper places for smoking in the plant.
APPENDIX "F" TRAINING PERIODS
Approximate training periods expected for each task of the collective agreement.
If changes occur, the employees will be notified via the training committee.
DESCRIPTION	WORKING DAYS
SILVER FINISHING	
Leadhand	30
Tenterframe Operator	IS
Floater	25
Finishing Line Operator	10
Crop shear Operator	5
Inspector	15
Packager	S
Waste Bag Cleaner	5
Tumbler Operator	5
Slitter	5
Tenterframe Helper	5
General Helper	5
	
LOOP FINISHING	
Leadhead and Finisher	30
Squeeze-RollOperator and Chemical Weigher	10
Leadhand	30
Tenterframe Operator (Santa)*	10
119
Tenterframe Operator (m w
Finishing Line Operator
Floater___________________
Trial Person______________
Waste Bag Cleaner**_______
Cleaner___________________
Napper Operator___________
Single Action Napper
Operator__________________
Packager__________________
Dryer Operator____________
Inspector_________________
General Helper
DYEHOUSE_________
Leadhand_________
Dye Weigher______
Raw Stock Dyer___
Dyer
Leadhand and Greige
MIXING ROOM Leadhand, Warehouse
Keeper______________
Mixers
Extractor
CARDROOM_________
Leadhand and Mechanic
i)
10
10
25
JO
5
10
10
10
_5_
10
15
5
30
15
15
15
15
30
10
10
30
120
Mechanic	30
Carder	15
	
SHIPPING	
Leadhand and Shipper	30
Shipper	10
Sample person	10
	
MAINTENANCE	
Mechanical Technician	25
Leadhand and Mechanic	30
Electronic Mechanic and Shear Repairman	30
Mechanic-First Class and Shear Repairman	25
Mechanic-Second Class and Shear Repairman	25
Mechanic-Third Class	25
Carpenter	20
Trucker and General Helper	10
	
SLIVER KNITTING	
Leadhand and Floor * Mechanic	30
Lead Mechanic	30
Floor Mechanic	30
Shop Mechanic and Yam	30
Knitters	15
Knitters Helper	10
121