COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
between
CLEYN& TINKER INC.
Plants No. 1,2,4,5,6
Huntingdon, Quebec
hereafter called the “EMPLOYER” of the first part
and
THE UNITED TEXTILE WORKERS OF AMERICA fC.L.C.1
Local 137 for plants 1,2,4,5,6
of Huntingdon, Quebec
hereafter called the “UNION” of the second part.
INDEX
Article
1	Purpose...........................
2	Recognition.......................
3	Employees.........................
4	Union dues .......................
5	Reservation of management rights.
6	Discrimination ...................
7	Strikes and lockouts .............
8	Union representation .............
9	Productivity......................
10	Grievances and arbitration .....
11	Temporary transfers.............
12	Seniority.......................
13	Loss of seniority...............
14	Discharge.......................
15	Promotion and lay-off...........
16	Bulletin board .................
17	Bereavement pay.................
18	Reporting allowance.............
19	Minimum call pay................
20	Statutory holidays..............
21	Annual vacation with pay........
22	Hours of work and overtime .....
23	Premiums........................
24	Wages ..........................
25	Beginners rates.................
26	Insurance benefits..............
27	Technical changes...............
28	Health and safety...............
29	Duration and renewal ...........
30	Correspondance..................
31	General information.............
Appendix 3 ......................
Appendix 4 ......................
Appendix 5 ......................
Page
... .2
...3
... .5 ... .6 ... .6 ... .8 ..16 . .20 .23 . .25 .. 30 . .31 . .53 .. 54 .. 56 . .57 . .57 .66 .73 .81 .84 . .87 . .88 .. 89 . .94 . .96 .. 96 . .97 .98 . 99 100
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
The parties have agreed that the general purpose of this agreement is to promote the mutual interest of the Company and its employees, to provide for the operation of the plants under methods which will further to the fullest extent possible the safety and welfare of employees and the economy of operations, quality and quantity of output, clearness of plant, protection of property.
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for all employees in accordance with the Law of plants No. 1,2,4,5,6 with the exception of off ice employees.
ARTICLE 3
EMPLOYEES
3:00 The term “EMPLOYEE(S)” whenever found in the present agreement shall designate the workers for which the Union is certified.
3:01 When in the present collective agreement the masculine pronoun is used, this signifies and includes the feminin pronoun wherever applicable.
ARTICLE 4
UNION DUES
4:00 As a condition of employment all employees shall sign an authorization form in duplicate, enabling the Company to deduct the Union dues from their pay as stipulated by the Union. These Union dues will be deducted as of the first week of work accomplished by the employee. These deductions as well as the duplicate authorization form, will be forwarded to the agent designated by the Union.
4:01 Authorization forms will read as follows: CLEYN& TINKER INC.
“I, the undersigned, hereby authorize my employer to deduct from my paythe required amount, for any Union dues to the United Textile Workers of America, to be paid to the agent designated bythis Union”.
4:02 Union dues shall be deducted from the
employee's pay each week for 52 weeks yearly. The Company shall, when making the TP4-T4 Income Tax slips, indicate the employee's total union dues deductions.
The Union dues are applicable to all weeks of pay on the basis of 52 weeks per year, it is to be noted that the vacation pays are subjected to this deduction, but in no event, can there be more than 52 deductions per year made.
The weeks of pay which do not have a minimum of
2
eight (8) hours, will not be subjected to the Union deduction, likewise the weeks ofabsence for illness,
accident or lay-off will not besubjectedto deductions and no arrears will be collected when the employee returns to work.
The Union dues collected must be sent to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Canadian Council, U.T.W.A. at the latest the 15th day of the month following the month when they were collected.
4:03 LIST OF EMPLOYEES:
As of the signing of the collective agreement, the Company will provide the Union with a list of all employees covered by the collective agreement. This list will include the employees’addresses, the dates of plant and Company seniority and will indicate their regular job.
This list will be revised in February of every year and a copy will be sent to the Union as of the first week of the month.
ARTICLE 5
RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5:00 The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
b)	For just cause the Company can hire, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote, reprimand
3
and suspend or otherwise discipline employees;
c) Judge the skill, knowledge, efficiency and allround ability of individual employees.
5:01 Manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged, and without restricting the generality of the foregoing to change or introduce machine processes and methods; to make time studies of and to institute changes in work loads, job assignments, methods of operation and work payment rates; to determine the products to be manufactured, processes of manufacture, and all other matters concerning the operation of the Company's business.
5:02 It is understood that the piece rates mentioned in this contract are subject to change for technical improvements, change in job assignments, improvement or deterioration of the quality of material to be processed.
5:03 a)The Company reserves the right to
discharge or demote any employees for any of the following reasons:
- Drunkenness, incompetence, insubordination, absence without leave, smoking in prohibited areas, drinking intoxicating liquors while on duty, endangering his own life or safety and/orthe life or safety of a fellow employee, violation of plant rules providing that the changes are posted 48 hours prior to the date they become effective, or for any other just cause.
5:03 b) DEMOTION
Theparties agreethat whenthe Company demotes an employee he will be entitled to apply for the first permanent vacancy available as per the posting procedure as long as his seniority enables him to do so or for the first available job for which no other employee has signed the notice of vacancy or claimed the job following its posting.
5:04 The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of the agreement and the collective bargaining rights of the Union.
ARTICLE 6
DISCRIMINATION
It is agreed that there will be no discrimination on behalf of both parties having taken part in this agreement as a result of past, present or future activities in negotiations, disputes, grievances or complaints.
It is also agreed that there will be no intimidation fromthe employees ortheir representatives towards the Company's representatives as well as no intimidation on behalf of the Company or its representatives towards the Union’s representatives or its members.
Furthermore, the parties agree that there will be no discrimination against any employee because of his race, color, language, creed, religion, sex or handicap.
5
ARTICLE 7
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
7:00 There shall be no lockout by the Company, or strike, slowdown, sitdown or suspension of work, eithercomplete orpartial, by the employees, during the life of this agreement.
ARTICLE 8
UNION REPRESENTATION 8:00 DESIGNATION:
The Union shall designate from amongst the employees a representative per shift in each department to be known as a “Departmental
steward”.
a)	UNION'S EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Union's executive committee is comprised of the President of local 137, the Secretary-Treasurer of the local as well as the Union Vice-President of each of the five (5) plants of Cleyn & Tinker Inc.
b)	DEPARTMENTAL STEWARD
The Union will nominate amongst the employees a steward per shift in each department who will be known as “Departmental steward”.
8:01 FUNCTIONS OF THE DEPARTMENTAL STEWARD
This departmental steward's functions will be to consider all grievances or complaints which the employees of his department may bring to his attention and to proceed with these grievances or complaints in conformity with the grievance procedure established in this agreement.
8:02 ABSENCE OF AN EMPLOYEE FROM HIS JOB:
a)	An employee shall not leave his working place to attend Union business without having obtained permission from his immediate superior beforehand. This permission will be granted for grievance procedure only and will not be refused without justification.
b)	In orderto maintain past practices, the Company accepts to pay for hours incurred during meetings held for settlement of grievances when these are part of the regular shift of the employee concerned and when a minimum of one Company representative participates in the meeting.
However, the Company accepts to pay at straight time the Union representative or the employee concerned, whichever the case, as per his regular hourly rate or average hourly rate, whichever is applicable, for all hours incurred during meetings summoned by the Company, of the health and safety committee of each plant, of the grievance committee and also for negotiationsf orthe renewal of the collective agreement and when a minimum of one representative of the Company participates
7
in the meeting. However, all hours paid at straight time which are not part of the regular shift of the Union representative or the employee concerned, whichever is applicable, will not be considered as worked for the purpose of overtime computation on a daily and weekly basis.
8:03 UNION REPRESENTATIVE ABSENT FOR UNION BUSINESS:
The Company will grant a leave of absence to any seven (7) Union executives from Cleyn & Tinker Inc. for out of town business, provided forty-eight (48) hours’ notice is given. Such written permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
8:04 LIST OF UNION REPRESENTATIVES:
The Union agrees to keep on file with the Company an up-to-date list of names of the Union's Executive members, and also the names of the departmental stewards.
ARTICLE 9
PRODUCTIVITY
PART
STANDARD OF PRODUCTIVITY
9:00 a) The Union recognizes the right of the
Company to establish, institute, modify or adjust, and to put into effect standards of productivity. These standards of productivity should be just and equitable and take into account the effort that may be expected of experienced workers having nor-
8
mal workingcapacities, and performing good quality work efficiently.
b)	In keeping with above, such just and equitable standards as established by the Company shall be recognized by industrial engineering principles, shallcontain allowanceforfatigue, rest and personal needs.
9:01 In agreement with the principles mentioned above, the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company to encourage a good efficiency of the employees by a reasonable level of productivity, according to the opportunity given by the Company.
9:02 The normal pace which shall prevail, whatever technique is being usedto measure the time, is the rhythm where effective speed of an average person, walking without any load, in a straight line on level ground, at a speed of three (3) miles per hour, judgment of the speed of each element shall be made.
9:03 a) In accordance with the present clause of productivity, the Union acknowledges the right of the Company at any time to institute a bonus plan “Standard minutes” with a base rate of any operation actually paid hourly; to change the present piece work rates (with or without base rates) into “Standard minutes” system, with a base rate.
b) Base rate represents job load at 100%.
Example:
100% job load =
125% earning opportunity.
9
PART 2
INTRODUCTION AND MAJOR CHANGES
9:04 This second part deals with the introduction of the bonus system “Standard minutes” and also with major changes requiring a trial period.
a)	1. At the introduction of the bonus plan “Standard minutes”, the base rate plus the production bonus proposed by the Company will be a minimum of 25 cents higher than the hourly rate of the occupation in effect at the time of introduction of the system when this job has always been paid at a regular hourly rate.
2. In the case of re-introduction of bonus plan
where there is already an existing base rate or in the case of a job where the hourly rate is a result of obsolete bonus system, the base rate will be set in mutual agreement between parties.
b)	When a job on bonus system ‘Standard minutes” is reverted to a regular hourly rate, such rate will be determined based on the average of the employee or employees concerned.
Minimum: Will not be less than the base rate times 125%.
Maximum: Will not be greater than the base rate times 130%.
c)	If a change contemplated by the Company concerning a wage incentive plan occupation has to do with a revision of a measured work element or the addition of a measured work element or the
10
complete elimination of a measured work element because of the installation of different machinery or if a piece work occupation is to be placed by the Company on the bonus system or if a new occupation is introduced on bonus system, these major changes require a trial period. The Company will meet the concerned employees in the presence of the Union Vice-President of their plant and in his absence of the departmental steward concerned 1 Odays before its application, andthe Union will be advised in writing of the nature of the change 5 days before its introduction.
9:05 The Company does not undertake to
guarantee any fixed amount of bonus payment, timestandards and job assignmentsshall beso set as to provide the average experienced employee with an assignment which offers a bonus opportunity averaging 25% of the base rate. It is understood that there is no obligation on the Company to offer such a bonus opportunity when the assignment is not available or when the employee is not capable of handling such an assignment.
9:06 a) Any introduction or major change mentioned in 9:04 a) and c), will require a trial period of six (6) calendar weeks, (extendable) up to a maximum of three (3) calendar months. If, afterthis trial period no disagreement or grievance has resulted from this change in the ten (10) days following the end of the trial period, the change will be considered as being accepted.
b) Within ten (10) days following the end of the trial
period, the Company will convoke a meeting with the employees concerned in the presence of the Union Vice-President of their plant as well as the
11
stewards of the department concerned to discuss the results of the trial period. The Company will informthe Union in writing of the results of the trial period and also of the meeting. Failing to reach an agreement the Union will inform the.Company and will request their time study specialist toverify the validity of the rate in dispute. In such a case it is understood that the Union has to make his time study specialist available for a meeting with those of the Company within ten (10) working days from the receipt of the results from the Company of the trial period. This period can be extended by mutual agreement. Saturdays, Sundays, statutory holidays and annual vacations shall not be counted in delays of this clause.
c)	All changes made by the Company remain in force during the period of dispute, and the employees concerned will be paid according to the new rates until final agreement of the two (2) parties. If the results of the joint tests of the decision of arbitration bring an increase in the standard time value, a retroactive compensation will be paid as of the date of the change.
d)	Joint tests will be made by atime study specialist
of the Company and a representative of the Union to settle the grievance on the change concerned, or to agree on a compromise. The extent of the joint tests called for may be determined by the parties by mutual agreement. If the results of the joint tests are such as notto aff ect the original value or work load by plus or minus 3% or less, no change is to be made. If the results of the said joint tests affect the original value or work load by greater than plus or minus 3%, the value or work load will be so revised and put into effect. Any joint tests
12
shall be of the same nature and to the same extent as the tests upon which the change was originally based. The extent of the joint test called for may be revised by the parties by mutual agreement.
e)	If the parties, after having completed the joint tests and having studied the results, cannot agree on the results of the said joint tests, the question will be submitted to step 3 of the grievance procedure and, in failing to reach an agreement at this step, the question will then be submitted to arbitration in conformity with article 10 of this contract.
9:07 During the trial period, the employees
concerned will work underthe new conditions and will be paid according to the new rates. An adjustment shall be reimbursed every three (3) weeks of the trial period if their average hourly earnings during the said period are inferior to their average hourly earnings of the last thirteen (13) weeks preceding the trial period.
9:08 The “hourly average earnings” wherever mentioned in this contract, denote the average hourly earnings of the last thirteen (13) weeks excluding overtime, shift premium and all bonuses except the production.
PART 3
CONTROLLING AND ADJUSTING Existing rate and work load
9:09 a) The Union acknowledges the right of the Company to restudy, investigate and to adjust the
13
incentive rates which yield earnings exceeding 35% over the base rate for new jobs studies or existing jobs.
b)	Incentive rates or work loads can be restudied and changed when they become loose ortight due to:
1.	Addition or exclusion of an element of work.
2.	Increase or reduction infrequency of end breaks or faults will be revised every three (3) months and adjusted if necessary.
3.	Achangeinthe weight of the supply, andfinished package, in the speed of the machine, in the working methods, or any other unforseen change which would be recognized by the
parties.
c)	The Company and the Union agree that the control of rates mentioned at 9:09 a) and b) aims to maintain work load and employees opportunity within set standards and to maintain fair and balanced rates on all the occupations.
9:10 The changes mentioned in 9:09 a) and b) will not require a trial period. However the Company will inform the Union in writing of the nature of the proposed change, of the necessary explanations concerningsuchachange, and this, five(5) working days before its date of implementation.
When changes require a revision of rates, the production bonus will be calculated each week by using the newly revised rates as well as the previous rates for a period of four (4) weeks.
1 A
When these new rates compared to the previous rates reduce the bonus opportunity on production, the employee will continue to be paid as per the old rates every week during the first four (4) weeks. Afterwards, he will be paid according to the new rates. The purpose of this procedure is to allowthe employee to evaluate the change and to adapt himself to the new rate without loss of opportunity for the first four (4) weeks.
PART 4
9:11 a) In the case where all machines are stopped due to steam or power outage, fire, flood or any other reason of any nature out of the Company's control, an employee working on incentive will be paid as per his base rate times 120% during the period where he remains idle.
b)	In all other cases, the downtime rate applies on the portion of machines that are stopped and regular incentive rate continues to apply on the portion of machines which remain in operation if a temporary transfer is impossible. The downtime rate is specified on the list of incentive rates for each job.
9:12 a) When a machine breakdown occurs in “one man one machine” operation only, the operator may consent to aid the repair upon request by the management and be paid at his hourly average for the period he provides assistance to the mechanic.
b) An employee who does not consent or is not requested to aid as per conditions established at 9:12 a) shall receive his base rate for the first two
it;
(2) hours of the breakdown,in a said week, after which he will be paid as per his base rate times 115%for any period of breakdown which occurs in that same week of work, and this, if a temporary transfer is impossible.
ARTICLE 10
GRIEVANCES AND ARBITRATION
10:00 In order to establish an orderly procedure for the handling of grievances and disputes, the Union and the Company will cooperate at all times for the general welfare and satisfactory disposal of all complaints, grievances, disputes, suggestions or representations advanced by either party.
10:01 It is the mutual desire of the parties to this agreement, that the complaints of employees be settled in the shortest time possible and it is understood that, before submitting a written grievance the employee must first discuss the complaint with his foreman. In such case, the employee has the choice to present himself alone or to do so in the presence of his Union representative if he wishes.
10:02 If an employee has a complaint that he was unable to settle after discussion with his foreman, he may take up the matter in a written grievance in the manner and sequence that follows:
10:03 Step No. 1
Between the wronged employee and/or his departmental representative, in his absence by another union representative of the plant, and his
16
foreman. All grievances must be handed in writing and the foreman shall render his decision in writing within three (3) working days following receipt of the grievance.
10:04 Step No. 2
a)	If within three (3) complete working days following the decision at step No. 1 the decision is not deemed satisfactory, the employee and/or its union Vice-President of the plant and in his absence the union President of local 137, must then submit t he grievance in writing to the plant manager. After receiving the grievance, the manager shall render his decision in writing within three (3) full working days.
b)	If at this step, no meeting has already taken place between the plant manager and the union Vice-President of the plant, and in his absence by the union President of local 137, one or the other of the parties can requestto hold such a meeting with both parties, the foreman and the employee concerned, in order to try to settle the grievance before proceeding with step No. 3.
10:05 Step No. 3
If within three (3) complete working days following the decision at step No. 2 the decision is not deemed satisfactory, the employee and/or its union Vice-President of the plant and in his absence by the union President of the local, must then submit the grievance in writing to the Human Resources manager. After receiving the grievance in writing the manager shall render his decision in writing within three (3) full working days.
17
10:06 If the decision taken at step No. 3 is not deemed satisfactory, the grievance will be referred to the “Grievance committee”, consisting of representatives from the Union and the Company. The grievance committee will meet maximum once (1) a month as needed.
10:07 GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
a)	The committee is formed of:
-	Company's representatives:
Human Resources Manager,industrial engineering Manager and plant managers, and by any other representative designated by the Management.
-	Union's representatives:
President of local 137, Union Vice-President from each one of the five (5) plants of Cleyn &Tinker Inc. and by the Secretary-Treasurer of the local. They may be assisted by the business Agent of the local Union. In the case where no ‘Tradesman employee” occupies one of the functions previously mentioned, a “Tradesman employee” representing them, could then be part of this committee.
b)	The function of the committee is to engage in the study, discussion and settlement of grievances and any other subject of common interest submitted to its attention by the representatives of one or the other of the patties.
ir
c)	Each of the parties to the present agreement will give in writing to the other party the general order of the questions which it wants discussed and this within the seven (7) working days which precede each meeting.
d)	All decisions arrived at by the agreement, either at the grievance Committee or at a previous step of the grievance procedure shall be final and binding on the employees, the Union and the Company.
10:08 All and every time limits set in the present article are binding but may be prolonged by a written agreement between parties. However if the prescribed time limits are not respected by one party or the other, it will then automatically pass on to the next step unless the party who submitted the grievance renounces to this in writing.
10:09 COLLECTIVE GRIEVANCE
If two (2) employees or more have a common grievancewhichthey we re unable to settle following the discussion held with the concerned foreman, they may raise their grievance in writing in the manner and order provided at articles 10:03 and following of the collective agreement.
Such a grievance must be signed by the employees bringing it forth.
10:10 PROCEDURE - ARBITRATION
In the event that the grievance or dispute cannot be satisfactorilysettledbythemethods outlined above, the matter shall be referred to arbitration. In such an event the parties must agree to refer the grievance to:
19
- A single arbitrator
or
- A board of arbitration composed of three (3) members, one selected by the Union, one selected by the Company and a third member who shall be Chairman, chosen by the first two names.
In the event that the Company and the Union cannot agree upon the choice of a single arbitrator or a Chairman, the Minister of Labour for the province of Quebec shall be called upon to name a single arbitrator or an impartial Chairman. The decision of the single arbitrator or of the arbitration Committeeshall be rendered within seven (7) days afterthe hearing, butsuch a delay may be extended by one or at the most two (2) additional delays of seven (7) days each. The decision of the single arbitrator or of the said arbitration Board shall be final and binding upon all partiestothis agreement.
10:11 The single arbitrator or the members of the arbitration Board cannot add to, change, modify or alter the terms of this agreement.
ARTICLE 11
TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
11:00 WHEN A TEMPORARY TRANSFER IS REQUIRED TO FULFILL PRODUCTION NEEDS:
a) When the Company transfers an employee temporarily on an operation other than his own to
20
fulfill production needs although the employee has sufficient work on his regular job, he will be paid the highest of the three (3) following rates:
1.	His average hourly rate (based on the last thirteen (13) weeks).
2.	The rate of the job to which he is transferred (on incentive or hourly).
3.	According to the average hourly earnings of employees working on his regular job, calculated
weekly during the period of the transfer.
b) In so far as the Company will judge possible, the
temporary transfers may be offered by order of seniority to employees qualified on a job where it is determined by Management that such a transfer may be done considering the production needs to satisfy.
The operator who is transferred on an operation paid on incentive will not acquire under any circumstance the average earnings made by the regular operators on the said operation. The temporary transfer is for a period not exceeding forty (40) working days.
In the case where the transfer involves less favorable working conditions for the employee, the Company will try to shorten this period. Following a request made by the employee, at the end of the forty (40) working days, the Company may assign when possible, another employee to the said temporary transfer.
21
11:01 OVERTIME WHEN A TEMPORARY TRANSFER IS REQUIRED TO FULFILL PRODUCTION NEEDS:
When an employee is required to workovertime on an operation other than his own, after his regular shift hours, the payment of these overtime hours will be calculated based on the highest applicable rate as per 11:00 a).
1 1:02 ALL OTHER TRANSFER:
a)	When a worker becomes redundant during his regular shift due to shortage of material, machine breakdown or any other reason, and if, he is not requiredby theCompany to fulfill productionneeds, the employee can either punch out or accept a temporary transfer to another job if there is one available. If he takes the job, the employee shall accept the rate of this operation.
b)	If the operation in question is on incentive, he will have the opportunity of earning wheat he can make at the job even if it is in excess of his own average on his regular operation.
c)	An operatortransferred underthese conditions will not drop belowthe base rate of the operation he has been transferred to. In the case where the employee has not worked on this job since six (6) months or more, he will receive as guaranteed minimum the base rate plus 15% during five (5) days in orderfor him to re-adapt himself on this job.
d)	In connection to this paragraph, both the Company and the Union are bound by article 18, in the first place, then the foregoing procedure can apply.
22
11:03 OVERTIME WHEN
TRANSFERRED TEMPORARILY:
When an employee works overtime hours on an operation, other than his own, after his regular hours according to conditions set out in 11:02, as well as an employee who voluntarily accepts to work overtime on another operation, the payment of these overtime hours will be calculated based on the rate of the job to which he is transferred according to 11:02.
ARTICLE 12 SENIORITY
12:00 a) New employees will serve a probationary period of sixty (60) working days before acquiring seniority rights. The two (2) working days of twelve (12) hours during the weekend are equivalent to three (3) working days of eight (8) hours during the week. In particular cases, the probationary period may be longer if at the Company's request an agreement is reached between the two (2) parties before the fifty-sixth (56th) day worked by the new employee. A copy of this agreement will be mailed to the Union Vice-President of the plant concerned. Once this period is completed, their seniority shall then date back to their last hiring date with the Company.
b) Exception rule to article 13:01 a). When a new employee is laid-off due to lack of work before having completed his approbation period of sixty (60) working days, and the duration of the lay-off exceeds the duration of service with the Company, he will be credited in seniority the number of days
23
worked provided that the two (2) following conditions apply:
1.	The Company’s management wishes tocall him back.
2.	The length of lay-off does not exceed six (6) months.
12:01 There are two (2) types of seniority, namely:
a)	Company seniority.
b)	Plant seniority.
12:02 DEFINITION OF SENIORITY
a)	Company seniority:
Is that which is accumulated while in the employ of the Company in any department of any plant. The Company’s seniority prevails to determine the fringe benefits.
b)	Plant seniority:
Is that which is accumulated while in the employ of the Company in any department of any one plant. The plant seniority prevails in cases of promotion or lay-off within the plant.
12:03 For the requirement of this contract the Company and the plants are defined as follows:
a)	Company: Cleyn & Tinker Inc.
24
Pit. #1: Top dyeing
Pit. #2: Conventional spinning
Pit. #4: Weaving
Pit. #5: Burling and mending
Pit. #6: Dyeing and finishing
12:04 Each plant will post a seniority list of all the employees working in that plant. These seniority lists will contain the name of the regular job of each employee. The lists will be posted in a place permitting each plant employee to verify his seniority. The list will be revised every four (4) months, e.g. the first (1st) of January, the first (1st) of May and the first (1st) of September of each year, A copy of the seniority lists of each plant will be sent to the Union when these are revised. The list posted will specify the title of the employee's regular and permanent job as well as, if need be, the one which he occupies on a temporary basis.
ARTICLE 13
LOSS OF SENIORITY
13:00 An employee's seniority shall be cancelled and his employment shall be terminated for any of the following reasons:
1.	If the employee quits,
2.	If the employee is discharged and his discharge is not reversed through the grievance or arbitration procedure,
3.	If the employee has been laid off and fails to return to work within seven (7) calendar days
25
after he has been notified by the Company to do so through registered mail sent to the last address known by the Company, unless he indicates that he was unable to report to work for a reason beyhond his control which is judged satisfactory by the Company,
4.	If the employee is absent from work for more than five (5) consecutive working days without providing a reason satisfactory to the Company for such absence,
5.	If the employee overstays a written leave of absence granted by the Company without securing an extension of such leave,
6.	If an employee having received a leave of absence works elsewhere he will lose all seniority unless he has a written permission from the Company to do such work.
13:01 An employee absent from his work for
reasons of lay-off, sickness and accident will lose his seniority and his employment shall be terminated when the period of absence reaches:
a)	The period of time equivalent to the length of his seniority at the beginning of his absence, in the case of an employee with less than eighteen (18) months seniority.
b)	Twenty-two (22) months in the case of an employee with eighteen (18) months but less than five (5) years seniority.
c)	Thirty (30) months in the case of an employee with five (5) years but less than fifteen (15) years seniority.
26
d)	Thirty-six (36) months in thecase of an employee with fifteen (15) years or more of seniority.
e)	If the absence is caused by an accident at work or an industrial illness ascovered bythe Workmen’s Compensation and Professional Illness Act, the period of absence may reach:
1.	Twenty-four (24) months in the case where the employee has completed his probation period of sixty (60) working days and has less than five (5) years seniority.
2.	Thirty-six (36) months in the case where the employee has five (5) years or more of seniority.
13:02 When an employee is absent from work for reason of sickness or accident for a period greater than three (3) working days and less than the absence period allowed at 13:01 a), b), c), d), e), the Company will return him to his regular work subject to the following conditions:
a)	He will supply upon request a medicalcertificate giving the reason of his absence and confirming that he may return to his regular work.
b)	He has the necessary seniority.
c)	He has given notice to the Company of his
intention to return to work at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the commencement of the shift on which he is normally scheduled to work. When it is impossible for the employee to give such advance notice he will inform his immediate superior as soon as possible of his disposal to work.
27
13:03 The Company can request from an
employee a medical certificate in case of abuse of frequent absences of three (3) days or less. When these absences are not justified, the employee is subject to disciplinary measures.
13:04 The Company may grant leave of absence to any employee for a legitimate personal reason. Any person who is absent with written permission shall not be considered to have been laid-off and seniority will continue to accumulate during his absence.
13:05 TRANSFER OF AN EMPLOYEE OUTSIDE OF THE BARGAINING UNIT AND CONDITIONS FOR HIS RETURN:
a)	An employee who has completed one (1) year of service with the Company who accepts an occupation outside of the bargaining unit will continue to accumulate all his plant and company seniority rights during twelve (12) months for an occupation of supervision or three (3) months for any other occupation. During the three (3) first months the employee will continue to pay the union dues.
b)	If an employee returns to an occupation inside the bargaining unit, at his request or at the Management's request, before having completed the prescribed period of twelve (12) months for an occupation of supervision or three (3) months for any other occupation, he/she retains all accumulated plant and Company seniority. In the case of an occupation of supervision the employee will have to pay retroactively the union dues which normally would have been collected during the
28
period of the transfer, e.g. between the moment deductions ceased and the return to an occupation inside the bargaining unit within the prescribed period. These deductions will be forwarded to the agent designated by the Union.
It is agreed that in such case, the employee will return to the occupation he held at the time of his transfer provided he has the required plant seniority. If his seniority does not allow him to return, he can then bump on another job an employee with less seniority.
Furthermore it is understood that any employee concerned cannot be eligible to more than one (1) prescribed period of a maximum of twelve (12) months and/or three (3) months whichever is applicable. It is understood that these periods cannot be consecutive.
c)	If the employee returns on an occupation on the bargaining unit after twelve (12) months, he will retain his company seniority and his plant seniority will be set at sixty (60) working days, this in order to allow him to precede employees which have not yet completed their approbation period. The employee concerned must return in priority in the plant where he has last worked while he was in the bargaining unit, in the case where this is not possible, he could then be considered in another plant where his services are required.
13:06 a) It shall be the duty of every employee to notify the Company promptly of any change of marital status, of address and telephone number.
29
b)	In order to exercise an effective control on
changes and to maintain personnel files updated, the employees must complete once a year, a form to this effect confirming or correcting if need be, marital status, full address and phone number of each one.
c)	Any notice sent by the Company to an employee
at his last address as recorded in the records of the Company shall be sufficient and effective notice.
ARTICLE 14
DISCHARGE
14:00 When a discharged employee claims that he has been unjustly dealt with, he may ask for and receive from the Company the reasons for his discharge. Ifthe Unionjudgesthat such adischarge is sufficient reason for a grievance, it shall be directly taken up at step No. 3 of the grievance procedure outlined at article 10 of this agreement with the only exception that all discharge complaints must be submitted in the fifteen (15) working days following the dismissal, and if such a discharge is not deemed justified, the employee shall receive full compensation for the time lost.
14:01 All disciplinary measure dating back more than twenty-four (24) months will be removed from the employee's file and it will not be taken into account by the Company at any time.
30
ARTICLE 15
PROMOTION AND LAY-OFF
15:00 DEFINITION OF THE TERM “VACANCY”
For the purpose of this clause, a vacancy may occur due to normal personnel turnover such as a person being retired, voluntary departure, death, promotion, dismissal, retrograded or transfer of employees to occupations not covered by this bargaining agreement, or to any other occupation whenever required by an increase in the number of employees on said occupation.
PART 1 PROMOTION
15:01 POSTING PROCEDURE
a)	All permanent vacancy which must be posted shall be for two (2) working days during the period from Mondayto Friday. When the plant concerned operates with twelve (12) hour weekend shifts, according to schedule referred as “5/2”, the notice of vacancy will remain posted on Saturday and Sunday.
In order to better control the minimum posting period of forty-eight (48) hours or ninety-six (96) hours whichever is applicable, dates and hours of the beginning and end of the posting will be specified on the job vacancy notice.
A copy of each vacancy notice will be given to the Union Vice-President of the plant concerned at the end of the posting period, this same posting
31
comprising of the name of the candidate who accepted the job will besentto the Union's office at the earliest convenience.
b)	PERMANENT VACANCY:
When a permanent vacancy is created on an occupation in the bargaining unit, it will be subjected to the above posting procedure.
The candidates who are interested in this vacancy must sign their names at the place reservedforthis purpose on the posting. The employee who is absent for reasons of sickness, accident, maternity leave or for any reasons judged acceptable is eligible following his plant seniority to the posted vacancy. However, he must be able to return to work within thirty (30) working days following the limited date of posting, or within forty-five (45) working days in the case of an employee absent from work due to an accident at work or a professional illness, according to the Workmen's Compensation and Professional Illness Act. However, in the event that the job vacancy has not been filled and that there is no employee on probation period at the time when the candidate actively returns to work following the period mentioned above, whichever is applicable, then he will remain eligible to the vacancy.
Furthermore, the limits of time specified in the paragraph above do not apply in the case of employees absent from work according to provisions of the Health andSafetyat WorkAct regarding the preventive withdrawal of pregnant employees.
The preceding does not however prevent the
32
Company from filling the vacancy until the job is filled as per the posting procedure. This method of granting promotions will be respected in each plant.
c)	PERMANENT VACANCY with possibility of cancellation
When the possibility of a permanent vacancy is anticipated on an occupation in the bargaining unit for reasons such as: In the case where an employee accepts a position outside of the bargaining unit, or an employee having decided to take early retirement, orwhen training is necessary in advance because of the length of the training period, or in the case of serious illness orserious accident or for any other reason offering a reasonable doubt of a permanent vacancy. Such a vacancy will be submitted to the permanent posting procedure such as referred to at 15:01 a) and b). Reasons justifying such a posting procedure will be specified on the notice.
However, this notice will be automatically cancelled if the reasons stated are not maintained. In such a case, employees being promoted shall return to the job they occupied before being promoted on account of this posting.
15:02 The selection of the candidate shall be
based on seniority, skill and aptitude required to perform the work. To judge the aptitude of the employee, it is understood that a suitable period of adaptation will be allowed unless the candidate had already an adaptation period within the last twelve (12) months for this job and was unable to qualify for the occupation. However, if the job was
33
affected by majortechnicalchanges which automize the operation, the twelve (12) month period
mentioned previously will not be considered. In a case where no candidate qualifies for the vacancy or if no employees have signed the notice of “vacancy”, the Company will hire a new employee to fulfill the “vacancy”.
15:03 a) Approbation period at the time of promotion.
An employee promoted to another job by following the procedures at 15:01 and 15:02 is eligible to an approbation period varying according to the job. This working period cannot exceed sixty (60) working days unless awritten agreement is reached between the plant manager and the Union VicePresident of the plant concerned. This written agreement should take place before the fifty-sixth (56th) working day of the approbation period and a copy of the agreement will be mailed to the Union.
15:03 b) Decision period for an employee that qualifies himself.
If during the approbation period the Company feels that the promoted employee is well enough qualified to fulfill the job satisfactorily, the concerned employee should be notified. Within the twenty (20) working days following this notice the employee shall random his decision if he stays on this job or if he prefers to return to his previous occupation. For means of control, the employee will sign aform to this effect.
15:04 a) When a temporary “vacancy” is foreseen to exceed forty (40) working days on an occupation
34
in the bargaining unit, a “temporary vacancy” notice will be posted for two (2) working days during the period of Monday to Friday. When the plant concerned operates with twelve (12) hourweekend shifts, according to the schedule referred as “5/2”, the notice of job vacancy will remain posted on Saturday and Sunday in order to also cover employees working on these shifts. The choice of the applicant will be based on his capability of filling the job without training or with a minimum of training. The employee who obtained the job will be notified by his foreman within the next five (5) days.
-	In the case where the temporary vacancy aims to replace an employee absent due to sickness, maternity, accident and/or absence with permission the duration will correspondtothe period of absence of the regular employee and his name will be specified on the notice.
-	In the case where the temporary vacancy aims to cover a particular situation and/or to satisfy a production need, the duration of the temporary vacancy will bespecified on the notice according to an evaluation which may be made and a brief description of the nature of the workto be done. Such posting of temporary vacancy will be revised by the parties in the six (6) months following its attribution.
b)	When a “vacancy” posted as “temporary
vacancy” becomes a “permanent vacancy”, this same vacancy will be re-posted as a permanent vacancy according to the procedures at 15:01 and 15:02.
35
c)	When an employee is available to return to his regular job after an absence period, he goes back on the occupation he had before he left. The employee promoted temporarily to another job will be the first one to return to his previous job. Reasons for absence of an employee from his regular work can be: maternity, sickness, accident, lay-off, absence with permission, transfer temporarily to another occupation or any other reason judged to be acceptable.
d)	All new job created permanently and posted as a temporary job will be posted as permanent within a period not exceeding six (6) months after its attribution. It is also understood that the procedure provided at article 24:01 must be completed before proceeding with such a posting.
When this new job partially or totally eliminates existing jobs, the employees affected will be the first to be considered by order of seniority.
15:05 a) Length of validity for a notice of vacancy:
The names of candidates eligible appearing on the notice of vacancy remain valid as long as the vacancy is not filled. When the length of time between the date of the posting and the date where the candidate did not qualify himself or refused to fill the job exceeds four (4) months, a second notice will be posted in order to provide an opportunity to employees having completed their approbation period to fill the vacancy before awarding the promotion to a new employee. When more than one (1) vacancy is created on the same occupation the number of required candidates must be specified otherwise each vacancy will be posted seperately.
36
b) If, during the approbation period a lay-off occurs on the occupation where the employee was transferred in order to fill the job vacancy, he will return on his previous occupation while retaining for a period of six (6) months the right to return on the occupation he was transferred to, and this, so astocompletetheappropriateapprobation period.
Furthermore, if the chosen candidate for the job vacancy did not benefit of an approbation period six (6) months after the job assignment was given, then the notice of vacancy for that job will be cancelled and another notice will be posted.
15:06 Applicable for promotion granted to employees with less than one (1) year of continuous
service with the Company:
Any new employee not having completed his probation period (sixty (60) working days) is not eligible to apply for any job vacancy.
15:07 THE APPLICABLE RATE WHEN A
PROMOTION OR A BUMPING OCCURS
a)	An employee promoted to the job of
“maintenance and mechanic” or in a position to become a tradesman will be paid according to the progression rates stated in appendix “1”.
b)	An employee promoted to a job paid on a
regular hourly rate will be paid eighty percent (80%) of the regular hourly rate of the job to which he is being promoted and this until he is qualified. This percentage during a period of time not exceeding the first seven (7) days worked on this new job. However the employee will be paid at the
37
regular hourly rate of the job to which he is being promoted as soon as he is qualified.
Whenever an employee is promoted to a job on which he is already qualified and can fulfill without training, he will be paid according to the regular hourly rate of the job right from the beginning.
c)	An employee promoted to a job being paid with a base rate plus production bonus will be paid according to the base rate of the job to which he is promoted and will receive the production bonus that he earned as he progresses and qualifies himself.
15:08 An employee promoted to a new job by following the procedures at items 15:01 and 15:02 that qualified himself and remained on this new job will not be eligible to apply for another job for a period of time proportional to the length of time required for his approbation period and to random his decision. The ratio being used to determine the minimum length of time for an employee to remain on a new job shall be one (1) month for each week required for the approbation period and for him to random his decision according to item 15:03 a) and b). Howeverthe minimumduration established will not exceed eight (8) calendar months.
EXAMPLE: HYPOTHESIS
If an employee is promoted according to the mentioned procedure and requiresthree (3) weeks to do the work satisfactorily, and takes an extra week to inform the Company that he wishes to remain on this new job, e.g. that the Company has waited a total period of four (4) weeks before being
38
informed officially if the employee remains on this new job; according to the ratio being used the promoted employee shall remain a minimum of four (4) months on this new occupation.
SUMMARY:
Week of approbation: 3 (+)
Week of decision :	1
(x)
Ratio:	1
Months minimum: 4 months
15:09 When an employee applies and receives a job on which he is already qualified; and has previously accomplished that job satisfactorily, item 15:07 does not apply, however, the employee shall not be eligible to apply for another job for a period of time proportional to the length of time required for him to random his decision to the Company once he has filled this vacancy. The ratio being used to determine the minimum length of time for an employee to remain on a job under these conditions will be one (1) month for each week it takes him to random his decision.
EXAMPLE: HYPOTHESIS
Week of decision:	1
(x)
Ratio:	1
Months minimum: 1 month
39
15:10 TRADESMEN
a)	DEFINITION: All trades recognized by the Department of Labour such as: Electrician,
millwright, stationary engineer, pipefitter. These form the tradesmen covered by the present collective agreement.
To be recognized as a tradesman the employee must possess his competence card and conform himself to the licence requirements as stipulated and defined bythe Department of Labour and ManPower of Quebec.
The tradesmen employees must be fully qualified, well informed and competent in all aspects of their trade and able to assist and direct the efforts of employees on probation as well as helpers or apprentices that are assigned to help them, and must accomplish all miscellaneous work related to the requirements of the job.
b)	PROCEDURE TO BE PROMOTED AS TRADESMAN
When a “permanent vacancy” is created on one of the jobs mentioned at 15:10 a), the Company will post the job opening in the respective plants according to procedure at 15:01 and 15:05. Afterwhich if the job is not fulfilled the Company will then post this job in all the plants in order to determine if within the other employees some of them have the necessary prerequisites and are interested in the job. The selection of the candidate shall be based on the prerequisites for the job and also according to the competence of the candidate based on his practical experience previously acquired.
40
c)	RIGHT TO BUMP IN CASE OF LAY-OFF
The tradesmen employees with competency card working as an electrician, millwright, stationary engineer, pipefitter are not eligible to apply for other occupations, except in cases where the employee is no longer capable of accomplishing the different tasks related to the requirements of his occupation due to for example sickness or accident resulting in an important loss of his general capacities or for any other reasons judged acceptable. However, in case of lay-off, they may prevail themselves of their seniority to qualify themselves as per item 15:15.
-	The electricians, on an occupation at plant No. 2,
-	The stationary engineers, on an occupation at plant No. 6,
-	The pipefitters and millwrights will receive the same privileges according to their seniority on an occupation in their respective plant.
d)	TRADESMEN CLASSIFICATION
List of jobs or functions according to knowledge and competence as tradesmen classification as stated at appendix "1”.
ELECTRICIAN WITH (LICENCE “C”)
-	Lead
-	More than one (1) year experience
-	Less than one (1) year experience
41
MILLWRIGHT WITH COMPETENCE CARD
-	Millwright lead
-	More than one (1) year experience
-	Less than one (1) year experience STATIONARY ENGINEER
-	Stationary engineer (2nd class)
-	Stationary engineer (3rd class)
-	Stationary engineer (4th class)
PIPEFITTER
(JOURNEYMAN’S LICENCE)
-	Pipefitter lead
-	Pipefitter with more than one (1) year experience
-	Pipefitter with less than one (1) year experience
15:11 For the requirements of the present
agreement, the Company andthe Union agreethat under normal working conditions, the list of jobs classified by plant represents all jobs assigned to the workers for which the Union is certified.
Whenever a new job is created on a permanent basis, and procedure at item 24:01 is completed, it will automatically be added to the list of jobs of the plant concerned.
42
PLANTS - CLEYN & TINKER INC.
PLANT #1 - TOP DYEING
Polyester balling Wool balling Conventional top dyer Conventional top loader lima sliver dyer lima sliver dyer helper Vigoureux Backwasher Combing Conversion
Finishing after combing Machine cleaner Combing preparation Serracant operator Warehouse
Warehouse (Yarn packer)
Maintenance and mechanic
Lot preparer
Janitor
Oiler
Fallers repairer
43
PLANTS • CLEYN STINKER INC.
PLANT #2 - CONVENTIONAL SPINNING
Doubling
Roving
Single winder Plant janitor Yarn packer Oiler Pindraft Yarn handler
Maintenance and mechanic Spinning operator Twisting operator Fancy twisting Pindraft and roving Electrician Truck driver Off ice janitor
Maintenance and mechanic helper (more than 2 years' experience)
Maintenance and mechanic helper (less than 2 years' experience)
Spinning operator (combined job)
Millwrigh Package winding Machine cleaner Spinning attendant Spinning helper
44
PLANTS - CLEYN STINKER INC.
PLANT #4-WEAVING
Warper operator Off -loom inspection Warper beamer lead Warper beamer Warp preparation Weft hauler Weaver
Pattern weaver and warp tyer (combined)
Warp hanger (lead)
Weft hauler and yarn handler (combined)
Warp hanger Chain maker Reconer operator
Drawing-in machine setting and harness handler Loom fixer (2 years or more of experience) Loomfixer(1yearbut less than2years’experience) Loom fixer (Less than one (1) year of experience) Millwright
Maintenance and mechanic Oiler
Yarn handler Piece hauler Pattern weaver Warp hanger - tyer Drawing-in machine Pattern warper (Hergeth)
45
Janitor
Warp hanger and fixer (pattern)
Warp tyer
Pattern warp hanger helper Chain maker (helper)
Floater
Sweeper
PLANTS ■ CLEYN &TINKER INC.
PLANT #5 - BURLING AND MENDING
Burling and mending
Combined jobs on perch
Passer
Day mending
Piece handler
Rolling machine operator
Combined jobs (Samples and floater)
PLANTS - CLEYN &TINKER INC.
PLANT #6 -DYEING AND FINISHING
Washer
Dry cleaner
Greige room helper
Scutcher
Scutcher/dryer
Dryer
Shear
46
Sellers semi-decator Fulldecator
Singeing
Rough perch
Finished perch
Special mending
Specking
Wrapping
Roling machine
Rolling machine (double)
Shipping Stock room Floater
Maintenance and mechanic Stationary engineer Pipefitter
Apprentice pipefitter Sample room helper Janitor
Piece dyeing under pressure
Piece dyeing under pressure (samples)
Package dyeing operator
Continuous crabbing and washing
Permanent decating
Continuous decating and sponging
Floater - Operator
Package dyeing helper
Continuous decating
A1
Dyes and chemicals drug room General helper Lead grey room Y.D.
Lead grey room P.D.
PART
LAY-OFF
15:12 When a lay-off becomes necessary on a given job, an employee who has not yet worked a period of sixty (60) working days on the occupation to which he was promoted or assigned to by the Company will be the first to be laid-off according to article 15:13 or the first to return on his previous job according to article 15:14.
15:13 LAY-OFF -TWO (2) DAYS OR LESS:
a)	In case of lay-off of two (2) working days or less the Company shall have the right to lay-off employees without regard of their seniority.
b)	However, on jobs where many employees are working and a part of the employees are laid-off, the choice to remain at work is given to employees with the most seniority on their occupation and regular shift.
15:14 LAY-OFF OF MORE THAN TWO (2) DAYS:
When a lay-off of more than two (2) working days whose duration isforeseen to be less than three (3) weeks becomes necessary, the employees with the least plant seniority on the job will be the first
Aft
laid-off or demoted. The employee subjected to a lay-off has the right to replace another employee with less seniority on a job which he previously filled satisfactorily.
15:15 When a lay-off is foreseen to exceed a period of three (3) weeks, or if the lay-off exceeds three (3) weeks, the employee laid-off will have the possibility of being trained on a job occupied by an employee with less seniority in that same plant, as long as there is no other job in the plant to which he can be transferred without training and that he has completed his probation period at the time of the lay-off.
a)	CASE WHERE THE EMPLOYEE IS ELIGIBLE TO A TEN (10) DAY TRAINING AT THE TIME OF THE LAY-OFF:
In the case where the employee is qualified on one (1) or many jobs, but cannot bump because these jobs are occupied by employees with moreseniority, he will be eligible to only one (1) training period of ten (10) days on another job occupied by an employee with less plant seniority, and this, provided the one claiming the training has completed his probation period at the time of lay-off.
b)	CASE WHERE THE EMPLOYEE IS ELIGIBLE TO A FIFTEEN (15) DAY TRAINING AT THE TIME OF THE LAY-OFF:
1. In the case where the employee is qualified on one (1) or many jobs but the only one on which he can bump, because the other jobs are occupied by employees with more seniority represents an important reduction in salary or if the working
AQ
schedules are less favorable than those of his regular job, he will be eligible to only one (1) training period of fifteen (15) days on another job occupied by an employee with less plant seniority, and this, provided the one claiming the training has a plant seniority of five (5) years or more at the time of lay-
on.
2. In the case where the only job on which the employee is qualified, is the one he has been working on for a minimum of five (5) years at the time of the lay-off, he will be eligible to only one (1) training period of fifteen (15)days on a job occupied by an employee with less plant seniority at the time of lay-off. However if the employeeconcerned was incapable of qualifying himself, he may prevail himself of a second training period of ten (10) days on another job occupied by an employee with less seniority.
This item refers to training on jobs on which an employee can normally qualify himself in a period often (10) and fifteen (15) days whichever is applicable. When the employee does not succeed in qualifying himself within the provided period, he becomes once again subjected to being laid-off,
c)	EMPLOYEE’S RIGHTTO HIS REGULAR JOB FOLLOWING A BUMPING:
When an employee is laid-off of his regular job and bumps an employee with less seniority on another job, in such case the employee will retain his right to return to his job during a period based on his plant seniority, as specified at article 13:01. Once this period is expired the job on which he has bumped becomes his regular job.
sn
15:16 When a temporary reduction in production needs occurs requiring less working hours on a given job, the choice to remain at work or to voluntarily accept to work less than forty (40) hours per week will be offered on a voluntary basis and option can be exercised based on seniority.
However, if the lack of work lasts three (3)
consecutive weeks and if employees concerned with to work normal forty (40) hour weeks, the Company will then proceed to lay-offs in order to offer a normal working week to employees that are not being laid-off.
15:17 When laid-off, an employee will receive a minimum notice of forty-eight (48) hours as long as it is reasonably possible to do so. The employee subjected to a lay-off wishing to prevail himself of his right to bump must make his decision known as soon as possible in order to allow a suitable notice to be given to the employee laid-off who has less seniority.
The Company will advise in the shortest time possible the employees who have the less plant seniority of the possibility of them being subjected to a lay-off. The names of the employees laif-off for a period exceeding two (2) working days will be posted.
15:18 RECALLS TO WORK:
a)	In a lay-off situation, when work becomes once again available on a job, the qualified employee with the most plant seniority will be the first one recalled to work. In the case where none of the employees laid-off are qualified, then they will be
51
eligible followingtheir seniority to receive the training
necessary to qualify themselves.
However if the recall of qualified employees, due to thefactthat workbecomes once again available on a particular job, is scheduled to last more than ten (10) calendar weeks, then the non-qualified employee on this job but with the most plant seniority will have the possibility of receiving the necessary training to qualify himself on this job as long as his plant seniority is often (10) years or more and that he can normally qualify in a period of ten (10) working days. It is understood that the employee having received training to qualify according to the preceding will fill the job on a temporary basis until work is available on the job which he occupied at the time of lay-off.
b)	When an employee who has more seniority than others on a given job accepts a voluntary layoff because of a reduction in activities, he must return to work as soon as his regular job is again available, The employee laid-off must return to work before the Company proceeds to recruit a new employee. When the employee returns temporarily on another job:
-	He is not considered as a permanent employee,
-	He is not entitled to bump,
-	He is again laid-off when the temporary work is completed.
When an employee returns to work following a job posting, he may:
-	Accept to fill the posting on a permanent basis and that job becomes his,
(OR)
-	Ask to fill the job on a temporary basis till the activities pick up on the occupation hehadatthe time of his lay-off.
In the case of permanentclosure of a job, it is highly recommended that the employee subjected to a lay-off immediately prevails himself of his right to bump according to his seniority, any employee who refuses to prevail himself of this privilege and who opts for a lay-off, loses his right to bump and when recalledto workthe last available job becomes his regular job.
ARTICLE 16 BULLETIN BOARD
16:00 The Company accepts to allow the Union to use the bulletin boards which may be locked, and this, for their usage exclusively. These boards are placed in each plant and the Union may post notices and announcements regarding its usual affairs, as long as these notices are signed either by the President of the local or by an authorized officer of the Union and that the Company receives acopy of the notice or announcement the preceding working day.
53
ARTICLE 17
BEREAVEMENT PAY
17:00 ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES:
The Company agrees to grant a bereavement pay to the employee who has completed three (3) months of continuous service with the Company at the time when the death occurs in his family.
Furthermore, it is understood that any employee who has not completed three (3) months of continuous service at the time of death of a member of his family may absent himself from work at such a time, according to dispositions to this effect as per the “Loi sur les Normes du travail”.
17:01 ELIGIBLE PERIOD:
a)	The reference period for bereavement pay is calculated in consecutive calendar days which start following the death in the employee's family and will end at 7:00 a.m. or 8:00 a.m., whichever is applicable, on the date following the funeral.
b)	However, exception is made for the reference period in the case of the death of spouse where the employee's motivated absence will be five (5) consecutive calendar days which will start following the death, and this, regardless of the funeral date.
17:02 RATE AND HOURS PAID TO WHICH EMPLOYEE IS ELIGIBLE
a) The employee concerned is eligible to this bereavement payment provided that each days of
54
absence for reasons of sympathy would normally have been a working day for the employee concerned.
b) The amount of pay to which the employee is entitled is equal to the number of hours as provided according to his regular daily schedule times his hourly regular or average rate, whichever is applicable, at straight time for each day that would normally have been aworking dayfortheemployee concerned.
17:03 In order tocontrol foreseen absences as per provisions at items 17:04 and 17:05, Management may require suff icient proof which will be subjected to verification.
17:04 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DAYS FOR BEREAVEMENT PAY
a)	Five (5) days at the time of death of spouse or of common-law spouse.
b)	Four (4) days at the time of death of son(s), daughter(s).
c)	Three (3) days at the time of death of father, mother, brother(s), sister(s), father-in-law, mother-in-law.
It is understood that the employee may request an absence from work for one (1) additional day, without pay, at the time of death or funeral of his father, mother, brother or sister.
d)	Two (2) days at the time of death of brother-inlaw, sister-in-law, step-mother, step-father.
55
e)	One (1) day for the funeral at the time of death of son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grand-children, grand-parents of the employee and grand-parents of the spouse.
17:05 In the event of death in the family as per provisions described at 17:04 a), b), c), and d), the employee may have reported to the day of the burial or incineration, whichever is applicable, one (1) of the days which he has not made use of out of the maximum number of days he is entitled to above. He will then be entitled to payment provided that the day of absence at the time of burial or incineration would have normally been a work day for the employee.
ARTICLE 18
REPORTING ALLOWANCE
18:00 Any employee who reports to work for his regular shift without having been advised beforehand that his services were not required, may be assigned to another job for a period of four (4) hours, for which he will receive an amount equivalent to four (4) hours of work at his regular rate. However if no work is assigned to him, the employee will receive in any event a minimum equivalent to four (4) hours of pay at his regular rate, based on his average hourly earnings if he is on piece work. Nevertheless, the dispositions of this clause do not apply in the case of stoppage due to heating, electricity, fire, flood, or any other condition of any nature out of the Company's control.
56
ARTICLE 19
MINIMUM CALL PAY
19:00 When an employee is recalled to work
outside his normal working hours, he shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours at the rate of time and one half (11/2) of his hourly or average rate, as the case may be, provided that if required by the Company, he performs the work he is assigned to.
ARTICLE 20
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
20:00 EMPLOYEE ELIGIBLE TO THE PAYMENT:
To be eligible to the payment of the statutory holidays and other holidays specified in this article, the employee must conform to the following requirements:
a)	The employee must beworkingforthe Company and have completed twelve (12) weeks of service.
b)	The employee must work his complete regular shift immediately preceding and following the said holiday, except inthe case of absence with permission.
However, when two (2) holidays or more follow each other, if the employee does not come to work during his complete regular shift immediately preceding and following such holidays, he will lose one (1) holiday pay for each day absent, maximum two (2) days.
57
c)	In a case of lay-off, an employee will be eligible if his period of absence does not exceed thirty (30) consecutive calendar days immediately prior to the holiday.
d)	In the case of illness, accident, or maternity attested by a doctor's certificate, the employee will be eligible if his period of absence does not exceed sixty (60) consecutive calendar days, immediately preceding the holiday.
20:01 HOURLY RATE FOR TIME OFF:
a)	The eligible employee will be paid straight time according to his regular hourly rate, or his hourly average for the employee being paid according to the bonus system.
b)	The employee on trial period (as described at item 9:06 a) when a statutory holiday occurs will be paid straight time according to the highest of the following rate whichever is applicable:
1.	At his hourly rate preceding the introduction of the trial period,
2.	His average rate based on his average earnings of the thirteen (13) weeks preceding the trial period,
3.	His average hourly rate based on his average earnings of the thirteen (13) weeks preceding the holiday.
58
20:02 HOURS PAID DURING STATUTORY
HOLIDAYS TO ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES:
a)	Applicable to employees scheduled during the period from Monday to Friday:
When a statutory holiday occurs, the eligible
employee shall be paid for the standard number of hours which he normally works, based on the preceding thirteen (13) weeks. When the average of daily hours worked based on thirteen (13) weeks is less than eight hours and a half (81/2), the eligible employee shall receive eight (8) hours of pay. When the average of daily hours worked based on thirteen (13) weeks is eight and a half (8 1/2) hours or more, the eligible employee shall receive nine (9) hours of pay for the holiday.
b)	Applicable to employees scheduled on twelve (12) hour shifts during the weekend schedule referred as “5/2”:
When a statutory holiday occurs, the eligible
employee will be paid for each statutory holiday an amount equivalent to eight (8) hours at regular rate, straight time.
Statutory and paid holidays are foreseen to be observed week days, therefore, Saturdays and Sundays are considered as normal working days for all employees working on the weekend schedule, referred as “5/2”.
20:03 Statutory holidays and paid holidays foreseen for the duration of the collective agreement
will be observed and paid following the calendar established for each year of the collective
59
agreement. The list of these holidays and statutory
holidays is the following:
Hr# -j
* 2. *3. *4. 5. *6.
7.
8. *9. 10.
*11.
12.
13. &
14.
15.
St-Jean-Baptiste Confederation Labour Day Thanksgiving Day before Christmas Christmas Day after Christmas Day before New Year New Year's Day Day after New Year Good Friday Easter Monday Two (2) floating days as per provisions at
item 20:04 for each of the three (3) years of the collective agreement One (1) additional floating holiday for the third (3rd) year of the collective agreement as per provisions at item 20:04.
(**) National Holiday
(*) This axterisk indicates the statutory holidays as per the “Loi sur les normes du Travail”.
a)	From May 31993 to May 1 1994, fourteen (14) statutory & paid holidays
Nb. of statutory	Day
& paid holidays	observed
1.	St-Jean-Baptiste	Thursday
24-06-93
an
2.	Confederation	Friday
(Observed)	02-07-93
3.	Labour Day	Monday
06-09-93
4,	Thanksgiving	Monday
Day	1 l-l 0-93
5.	Day before	Friday
Christmas	24-12-93
6.	Christmas	Monday
(Observed)	27-12-93
7.	Day after Christmas Tuesday
(Observed)	28-12-93
8,	Day before	Friday
New Year	31-12-93
(Observed)
9.	New Year’s Day	Wednesday
(Observed)	29-12-93
10.	Day after New	Thursday
Year	30-12-93
11. Good Friday	Friday
01-04-94
12. Easter Monday	Monday
04-04-94
13.	Floating holiday
14.	Floating holiday
61
b)	From May 2 1994to April 30 1995, fourteen (14)
statutory & paid holidays
Nb. of statutory	Day
& paid holidays	Observed
1.	St-Jean-Baptiste	Friday
24-06-94
2.	Confederation	Friday
01-07-94
3.	Labour Day	Monday
05-09-94
4.	Thanksgiving	Monday
Day	10-10-94
5. Dav before Christmas Wednesday
(Observed)
6.	Christmas
(Observed)
7.	Day after
Christmas
28-12-94
Tuesday
27-12-94
Monday
26-12-94
8.	Day before
New Year (Observed)
Thursday
29-12-94
9.	New Year's Day	Monday
(Observed)	02-01-95
10.	Day after	Friday
New Year	30-12-94
(Observed)
RO
11. Good Friday	Friday
14-04-95
12. Easter Monday	Monday
17-04-95
13.	Floating holiday
14.	Floating holiday
c)	From May 1 1995 to May 51996, fifteen (15) statutory & paid holidays
Nb. of statutory	Day
& paid holidays	Observed
1.	St-Jean-Baptiste	Friday
(Observed)	23-06-95
2.	Confederation	Friday
(Observed)	30-06-95
3.	Labour Day	Monday
04-09-95
4.	Thanksgiving Day Monday 09-10-95
5.	Day before
Christmas
(Observed)
6.	Christmas
Wednesday
27-12-95
Monday
25-12-95
AO
7.	Day after Christmas
Tuesday
26-12-95
8. Day before New Year (Observed)	Thursday 28-12-95
9, New Year's Day	Monday 01-01-96
10. Day after New Year (Observed)	Friday 29-12-95
11. Good Friday	Friday 05-04-96
12. Easter Monday	Monday 08-04-96
13. Floating holiday	
14. Floating holiday	
15. Floating holiday	
20:04 FLOATING HOLIDAY
The choice of prevailing himself of the floating holidays is left to the discretion of the employee.
In the case where he wishes to prevail himself of a holiday he must request it forty-eight (48) hours in advance, providedthat the following conditions are being respected:
a)	Maximum of one (1) employee per job, per shift, per department.
b)	Wheneverthere is more than one (1) employee
making the request for the same day, plant seniority
will prevail.
c)	It is understood that these holidays are noncumulative and can not be carried from one year to the next based on dates of each year of collective agreement.
d)	In the case where the employee has not prevailed
himself of these floating holidays by the end of each year of collective agreement, the Company will pay him the amount to which he is entitled.
e)	When an employee observed his floating holiday on Holy Saturday, eight (8) hours will be added to the Good Friday holiday hours and to normal hours worked during the weekfor computation of overtime. In this particular case the restricting conditions provided at a) and b) of this item are not applicable. This is to maintain acquired right concerning Holy Saturday.
20:05 If the observance of a holiday as shown at article20:03 occurs during an employee'svacation period, any holiday allowance payable shall be added to his holiday pay, or, should he so request, an additional day off with holiday pay shall be grantedto himat atime convenient to the Company and to the employee.
20:06 Statutory and paid holidays mentioned at item 20:03 a), b) and c), with the exception of the floating holidays, will be observed by stopping the Company's normal operations during a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.
In order to give an equitable earning opportunity to
all employees working on each different shift according to their working schedule, the period of twenty-four (24) hours is determined as follows depending if the holiday is observed on Monday or on Friday:
a)	When a holiday is observed on the Monday, the 24 consecutive hours of the calendar day will be considered as the observation period. All work performed on the shift starting at midnight (12:00 p.m.) on Monday at the end of the holiday, shall be considered as the shift starting at midnight (12:00 p.m.) Sunday, and this work will be performed on a voluntary basis. The normal working week will start at the beginning of the regular shift at 7:00 a.m. or 8:00 a.m. whichever is applicable on Tuesday.
b)	When a holiday is observed on the Friday, the 24consecutive hours of the observation period will start at 7:00 a.m. or 8:00 a.m. at the end of the regular shift on Friday, and will be extended for 24 consecutive hours. In such case all work performed from 7:00 a.m. or 8:00 a.m. according to the beginning of the regular shift on Saturday will be on a voluntary basis.
ARTICLE 21
ANNUAL VACATION WITH PAY
21:00 The Company's employees will be entitled to a vacation period based on the duration of continuous service accomplished in the reference year.
RR
1. Applicable forthefirst (1 st) year of the collective agreement
SENIORITY
a)	Less than one (1) year
b)	One (1) year but less than
six (6) years
c)	Six (6 years) but less than fourteen (14) years
VACATION
PERIOD
One day of vacation per month of service
Two (2) weeks Three (3) weeks
d)	Fourteen (14) Four (4) weeks years but less than twenty-five (25) years
e)	Twenty-five	Five (5) weeks
(25) years or more
2. Applicable as of the second (2nd) year of the collective agreement
VACATION
SENIORITY	PERIOD
a) Less than one (1) One day of vacation per year	month of service
67
b)	One (1) year but less Two (2) weeks than five (5) years
c)	Five (5) years but less Three (3) weeks than fourteen (14) years
d)	Fourteen (14)	Four (4) weeks
years but less than
twenty-five (25) years
e)	Twenty-five (25) Five (5) weeks years or more
21:01 a) For the vacation period, employees will be paid following a percentage(%) of their gross earnings accomplished in the reference year. The percentage (%) varying according to the duration of continuous service with the Company.
For interpretation purposes and for calculation of the percentage (%) of vacation pay, the reference year for the first year of the collective agreement will extend from July 1 st 1992 to June 30th 1993.
b) Applicable to employees absent for reasons of illness, accident or maternity only. The employee absent for reasons of illness, or accident certified by a doctors paper for a period of seven (7) consecutive weeks or more during the twelve (12) months preceding June 30th will be paid for a number of hours determined as per his seniority. The rate used will be: The average of the last thirteen (13) weeks worked at December 31 st, plus the average of the last thirteen (13) weeks worked at June 30th, divided by two (2) giving the average hourly rate to be usedforcalculation of his vacation pay.
68
Applicable for the first (,1 st) year of the agreement, e.g. from May 3 1993 to May 1 1994:
21:00	(21:01 a) (21:01 b)
’Senaaritv a t i o n % du G F Hours'
Less than One day of 4%	Nil
one (1) year vacation per
month of service
1 year but less than 3 years	2 wks.	4%
3 years but less than 6 years	2 wks.	5.5%
6 years but less than 10 years	3 wks.	6.5%
10 years but less 3 wks. than 14 years		7.5%
14 years but less 4 wks. than 18 years		8.5%
18 years but less than 21 years	4 wks.	9.5%
21 years but less than 25 years	4 wks.	10.5%
25 years but less than 30 years	5 wks.	11.0%
30 years or more	5 wks.	11.5%
80
• 72
110
*99
130
*117
150
*135
170
• 153
190
*171
210
*189
220
*198
230
• 207
(*) "5/2" schedule
69
Applicable for the second (2nd) and the third (3rd) year of the agreement, e.g. from May 2 1994 to April 30 1995 and from May 1 1995 to May 5 1996:
Seniority
21:00	(21:01a)
Vacation	%du g.e,
Less than	One day of	4%
one (1) year	vacation per
month of service
1 year but less than 3 years	2 wks.
3 years but less than 5 years	2 wks.
5 years but less than 10 years	3 wks.
10 years but less 3 wks. than 14 years	
14 years but less 4 wks. than 18 years	
18 years but less 4 wks. than 21 years	
21 years but less than 25 years	4 wks.
25 years but less than 30 years	5 wks.
30 years or more	5 wks.
4%
5.5%
6.5%
7.5%
8.5%
9.5%
10.5%
11.0%
11.5%
(21:01 b) Hours*
Nil
80
*72
110
*99
130
*117
150
*135
170
• 153
190
• 171
210
• 189
220
*198
230
*207
(*) "5/2" schedule
70
21:02 a) The third (3rd) weekvacation specified at 21:00c), thefourth (4th) weekvacation specifiedat 21:00 d) and the fifth (5th) weekvacation specified at 21:00 e) shall be taken at the date determined by mutual agreement between the employee concerned and the Company.
b)	Employees eligible to a third (3rd) week or to a third (3rd) and a fourth (4th) weekorto a third (3rd), a fourth (4th) and a fifth (5th) week’s vacation will have the privilege to request one week’s vacation pay at Christmas. Employees wishing to prevail themselves to this right, shall make a request to thiseffect at least one(l) week in advance, andthis period will then be counted as a vacation period. This does not affect in any way the amount that the employee will receive for his statutory holidays.
c)	Applicable to employees scheduled on twelve (12) hour weekend shift referred as “5/2”:
The two (2) weekend days, Saturday and Sunday, constitute a normal work week for employees scheduled on shift referred as “5/2” and will be considered on this same basis to determine the number of weeks of vacation to which they are entitled.
However, the calculation of vacation pay for these employees will be based on the percentage (%) of gross earnings accomplished during the reference year considering seniority as per provisions of article 21:01 a). Furthermore, provisions at article 21:01 b) will apply if need be, to employees working on shift referred as “5/2” and the number of hours determined according to seniority is indicated by an axterisk (*).
71
21:03 The Company agrees to inform the
employees before April 15th of each year of the annual vacation period.
The employee with the most plant seniority on an occupation will take precedence on an employee with less plant seniority on the same occupation as to the choice of dates for his third and/orfourth and/ or fifth weekof vacation. The Company will askthe employees concerned to make their choice of dates known before April 30th of each year and the Company will post before May 15th the list stating the choices of dates.
21:04 The duration of continuous service of the employee with the Company is calculated as of June 30th. It is also as of that date that the vacation pays will be calculated based on the gross earnings made during the previous twelve (12) months.
The reference period for the taking of additional weeks of vacation will extend from July 1st of the current year to June 30th of the following year.
21:05 If the employee makes arrangements with the employerto work the third week of his vacation and any other additional week he is entitled to, he will not be laid-off unless he is subject by seniority.
21:06 A separate cheque will be handed to the employee leaving for vacation for each week he is entitled to and this cheque will be dated in order that it maybe cashedthe Thursday preceding such weeks of vacation.
a)	Normally, the cheques for each week of vacation
he is entitled to will be handed to each employee
72
during the week preceding the closing of plants for annual vacation period.
b)	However, the employees who remain eligible to a number of weeks of vacation greater than the number of weeks of plant closure, and whose vacation will be taken at a later date as per mutual agreement, they may if they so wish have the Company retain the number of corresponding vacation pays, up to their departure for vacation.
In orderthatthese vacation pays be retained by the Company, the employee concerned will have to inform his foreman and advise the plant manager.
21:07 Except for cases of plant closure for the annual vacation period, the employee having agreed to take his additional weeks of vacation he is entitled to at a determined date, and who is as of that date, unable to due to sickness, accident or for any other valid reason, must advise the Company before the beginning of these weeks of vacation and may postpone his vacation to a later date determined after mutual agreement with the Company.
ARTICLE 22
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
22:00 It is agreed that operations within each plant are to be scheduled according to the production requirements. On a weekly basis and under normal conditions, the Company can schedule the operations to fulfill production requirements in the following manner:
73
a)	The normal work week will be from Monday 7:00
a.m. to Saturday 7:00 a.m. (or) Monday 8:00 a.m. to Saturday 8:00 a.m. whichever is applicable. This refers to employees scheduled during the week from Monday to Friday.
b)	However when production needs require a minimum of 125 hours of operation per week for a period of nine (9) months starting the second (2nd) Monday in September and finishing on May 31 st of each year, the normal work week will start on Monday at 7:00 a.m. to Saturday at noon (12:00 a.m.) or on Monday at 8:00 a.m. to Saturday 1:00 p.m. whichever applies.
This refers to employees scheduled during the week from Monday to Friday. Under these circumstances the Company will attempt if possible to schedule the employees qualified on the concerned jobs on a voluntary basis on Saturday as of 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. whichever applies. For lack of a sufficient number of voluntary employees to the various jobs necessaryfor production needs, the Company will then schedule the employees working on these jobs as per the day shift during the week of reference.
c)	If production requirements call for one hundred and sixty-eight (168) hours per week of operation, this will be achieved with the application of the schedule referred as “5/2”. Depending on needs, work schedules will be set up by job classification, by department section, by department or by plant.
74
d)	DEFINITION OF SCHEDULE REFERRED AS “5/2”:
When production requirements call for two (2) weekend days to be scheduled by one (1) ortwo (2)
shifts of twelve (12) hours which the beginning will coincide with the end of regular week shifts, such as:
Day 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. shift:	or
8:00a.m. to8:00 p.m.
Night 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shift:	or
8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
e)	REDUCTION OF PRODUCTION CAPACITY NEEDS
Since the introduction of twelve (12) hour weekend shifts is to meet greater needs of production, it is also agreed that when the needs of production capacity are reduced, such shifts will be the first ones interrupted. The employees subject to being laid-off will have the right, according to their qualifications and seniority, to prevail themselves of the provisions in the collective agreement to thateffect, either to return to the five (5) day schedule or to be laid-off, whichever is applicable.
22:01 Overtime on daily and weekly basis will be on a voluntary basis with the exception of article 22:00 b) when production requirements call for a minimum of 125 hours per week of operation.
22:02 The normal working hours per day and per 75
week for the overtime calculation are of eight (8)
hours per day and forty (40) hours per week.
22:03 The normal day of all employee for overtime computation purposes will begin with the first hour of the employee’s regular shift and will continue for twenty-four (24) hours. It is understood that the regularshift means the one on which the employee is scheduled for a given week. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply inthecasewherethere has been a regular change of shifts due to rotation, or if the work done in excess of eight (8) hours results from employees having exchanged time between themselves.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the previous paragraph, the hours worked by the employee before the beginning of his regularshift will be paid in overtime when he cannot complete his regular eight (8) hours of work because Company Management cannot provide him with a job assignment. Likewise, an employee having worked hours before the beginning of his regular shift, consecutive or not to the ones of his regular shift, will be paid in overtime provided they exceed eight (8) hours.
22:04 Regular hours of workas specified at 22:02, will be paid at straight time, whereas hours worked above regular hours will beconsidered as overtime and will be paid at the rate of time and one half (150%) of the regular hourly rate or average rate whichever is applicable.
22:05 Forthe employee eligible to receive payment for: Hours not worked or worked forthe observance
of a statutory holiday according to article 20, and
7fi
also for hours paid and not worked due to absence for reason of bereavement in his family according to article 17, these hours not worked or worked shall be calculated as worked for calculation of weekly total hours.
22:06 a) All hours worked during the weekend starting at 7:00 a.m. or 8:00 a.m. according to the end of the regular shift on Saturday until 7:00 a.m. or 8:00 a.m. according to the regular shift on Monday will be paid at the rate of time and one half (150%) of regular hourly rate or average whichever is applicable.
b)	All work performed on the shift starting at 11.00 p.m. or midnight Monday at the end of a statutory holiday shall be considered as the shift starting at 11:00 p.m. or midnight Sunday and shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (150%) of the regular rate or average rate whichever is applicable. “SHIFT” means the eight (8) hour period of time between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or midnight and 8:00 a.m. whichever is applicable.
c)	When production requirements or weather conditions necessitate the functioning of the boilers during seven (7) days per week of operation, boiler operator employees will be scheduled on four (4) rotating shifts and will receive the overtime and shift premium as provided in the present agreement.
22:07 Any work performed on a statutory holiday shall be remunerated at (150%) the hourly or
average rate whichever applies, over and above remuneration for the paid holiday.
22:08 The employee will not receive overtime 77
twice for hours worked in any one day or in any one week. Overtime payment will be made only for hoursthat have been worked above regularworking hours per day or per week, except for provision mentioned at item 22:05.
22:09 The daily or weekly hours of work mentioned in this article, are for computation of overtime hours only and must not be interpreted as being guaranteed.
22:10 If the Company decides to modify the work schedule on a permanent basis on a given job, and this as compared to the one in force on the concerned job, the Union will then be advised in writing before the change is introduced.
22:11 OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION PROCEDURE:
Itis agreed thatthe procedure todistribute overtime
will be the following, eitherto accomplish additional hours or when the Company is informed that an employee will be absent from work before the beginning of his shift, and so as to replace him, requires that work be done in overtime:
a)	Order of distribution of overtime:
1-	Overtime will first be offered to employees
operating a machine assignment or by order of seniority to those occupying the job, whichever is applicable, whose shift is ending and where overtime is to be done.
2-	If the employees refuse, overtime will be offered by order of seniority to employees occupying the
78
job whose shift is ending and where overtime is to be done.
3-	If these employees refuse, overtime will then be offered by order of seniority to the other qualified employees working in the same department on the shift which is ending.
4-	If the employees refuse, overtime will be offered by order of seniority to the other qualified employees
of the plant on the shift which is ending.
5-	If the employees refuse, overtime will then be offered by order of seniority as per procedure provided at 22:11 a) 2, 3, and 4 but without any regard to the work shift of employees concerned.
b)	When overtime is foreseen and necessary for more than one (1) shift due to the same absence which extends itself in consecutive days in a given week, the provisions provided at article 22:11 a) will apply for the first day, after which, the overtime distribution procedure for the subsequent days will be the following:
1-	Overtime will be offered by order of seniority to qualified employees occupying the job, without regard to the work shift of employees concerned.
2-	If the employees refuse, overtime will then be offered by order of seniority to the other qualified employees working in the same department, without regard to the work shift of employeesconcerned.
3-	If those employees refuse, overtime will be offered by order of seniority to the other qualified employees of the plant, without regard to the work
79
shift of employees concerned.
c)	Dividing of overtime:
When overtime is necessary for a complete work shift, the first four (4) hours will be offered as per order of distribution provided at 22:11 a) or b) whichever is applicable, whereas the second four (4) hours will be offered to employees of the shift following the one on which there is overtime to be done while respecting the order of distribution provided at 22:11 a) or b), whichever is applicable.
However, the provisions of the previous paragraph do not apply when overtime is necessary on the shift referred as “5/2”.
d)	When an employee is temporarily transferred on a job other than his own as per provisions at article 11 for a period of one (1) week or less and that during this period overtime is necessary on the job normally occupied by the employee, he will then be entitled to the said overtime as per provisions of the present article.
Furthermore, if the period of the employee’s temporary transfer exceeds one (1) week and that overtime is necessary on the job he is temporarily occupying, he will then be eligible to the said overtime as per provisions of the present article.
It is agreed that the overtime will be offered according to one or the other previous
circumstances, whichever applies.
e)	If an employee believes that overtime was not offered to him as per the order of distribution
an
provided in the present article, he will notify his foreman and if he judges it to be justified, the Company will then take appropriate measures in orderto offer within thirty (30) calendar days another overtime opportunity to the concerned employee.
However, it is understood that this opportunity will not as aconsequence limitthe overtime opportunity that another employee could have otherwise obtained.
ARTICLE 23
PREMIUMS
23:00 SHIFT PREMIUMS
Shift premiums are not paid for hours worked on jobs regularly scheduled on day shift. Howeverthe following shift premiums will be paid over and above the regular rate of pay:
1. Applicable for the first (1st)yearof thecollective agreement:
a)	Fifteen (15) cents per hour for hours worked on a job regularly scheduled on the shift of:
3:00p.m. to11:00p.m. or
4:00 p.m. to midnight
b)	Thirty (30) cents per hour for hours worked on a job regularly scheduled on the shift of:
81
11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. or
Midnight to 8:00 a.m.
c)	Twenty (20) cents per hour for hours worked on a job regularly scheduled on evening shift and which exceed midnight as well asthetwelve (12) hour weekend shifts.
2. Applicable as of the second (2nd) year of the collective agreement:
a)	Eighteen (18) cents per hour for hours worked on a job regularly scheduled on the shift of:
3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. or
4:00 p.m. to midnight
b)	Thirty-three (33) cents per hourfor hours worked
on a job regularly scheduled on the shift of:
11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. or
Midnight to 8:00 a.m.
c)	Twenty-three (23) cents per hour for hours workedon a job regularly scheduled on evening shift and which exceed midnight as well as the twelve (12) hour weekend night shifts.
23:01 Premium for electricians
The electrician who owns an automobile and who must make use of it to go from one plant to-another during his regular working hours, will receive a
82
premium of twenty (20) cents per hour over and above his hourly rate.
23:02 Special premium
An employee will receive a special premium when designated by the Company for his competency to assume a greater responsability. This premium will be granted over and above the hourly rate or average hourly rate whichever applies. This premium is granted according to the following level of responsabilities:
a)	Sixty (60) cents per hour when an employee replaces aforeman. He will be called group leader. If the duration of the replacement is expected to exceed two (2) days, the name of the group leader will be posted as of the first day.
b)	Twenty-five (25) cents per hour when an employee trains or re-trains a group of employees.
c)	Twenty-five (25) cents per hour for a maximum period of fifteen (15) days when an employee trains or re-trains another employee. This applies for each candidate to be trained.
23:03 RECOGNITION BONUS
A recognition bonus for years of service with the Company shall be distributed each year at Christmas to employees who are at the Company's service on that date. The amount of this bonus shall be based on the number of years of continuous service with the Company. The years of service shall be calculated as of June 30th.
83
The number of dollars per year of continuous service applicable to each year of the collective agreement is the following:
1 st year of collective agreement: 9,00$
2nd year of collective agreement: 9,25$
3rd year of collective agreement: 9,50$
ARTICLE 24
WAGES
24:00 The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept for the length of this collective agreement that hourly rate and base rate applicable to the bonus system (standard minute) foreseen at appendix “1” which is made part of this agreement and signed for identification by the parties hereto. Any change of any one of these rates shall conform to this present collective agreement.
24:01 a) When the new job is being created permanently in the bargaining unit the rate will be determined within a delay not exceeding six (6) months. The hourly rate of this job shall be determined by using the method of job evaluation. The committee proceeding to the job evaluation will be formed by six (6) members, three (3) of them will be the Company's representatives and the three (3) others will be the Union representatives. The hourly rate then established becomes the regular rate of this new job and will then be subject to the posting procedure according to items 15:01 and 15:02.
84
b) When the Company will have decided to proceed
with a modification regarding classification of jobs or their rates which appear at appendix ‘T of the present collective agreement, the representatives of the Company will advise, before the said modification, the Union Vice-President of the plant concerned as well as the employee or employees affected by the change.
24:02 The general contractual increases included in the rates at appendix 'T and agreed to by the Company are as follows:
a)	To regular hourly paid employees:
Effective 03/05/93..20 cents Effective 02/05/94..25 cents Effective 01/05/95..30 cents
b)	To employees paid according to the bonus system with base rate: Considering that the bonus system (standard minute) offers an earning opportunity equal to 125% of the base rates and to maintain an equitable proportion between these two (2) methods of payment, base rates shall be increased as follows:
Effective 03/05/93.. 16 cents
Effective 02/05/94..20 cents
Effective 01/05/95..24 cents
c)	The amount of general increase for the third year of the collective agreement, effective May 1st
85
1995 represents a guaranteed minimum.
If the increase of the consumer price index obtained in June 1995 for the twelve (12) month reference period ending in May 1995 exceeds three and a half percent (3.5%), an additional salary increase will be calculated and paid as per the method provided in the letter of agreement to this effect.
24:03 In addition the Company and the Union have agreed to increase a number of rates on certain jobs. The amount of increase and the jobs that have received those increases are at appendix “2”. (Non applicable for the duration of the present collective agreement).
24:04 SALARY PAID TO AN EMPLOYEE SELECTED AS JURY CANDIDATE OR JURY
A regular employee having completed his probation period, who is chosen to serve as a jury candidate or jury, will receive if eligible, the difference between his regular daily earnings based on his normal working hours as an employee, and his daily indemnity as jury candidate or jury, provided that hours sewed as jury are part of his regular working hours and he conformed himself to the following conditions:
a)	That he returns to work as soon as possible each time he is released from the Court.
b)	He must present to the Company written
evidence specifying dates and hours during which he has served as jury candidate or jury as well as the amount of indemnity he has received or will
86
receive from the Court.
This article is not applicable if an employee makes the request himself to serve as jury candidate or jury.
24:05 RETROACTIVITY
All employees employed with the Company having completed thirteen (13) weeks of continuous service at the date of signature of the collective agreement will be entitled to retroactivity as of May 3rd 1993. Retroactivity applies on general increases, calculated on the basis of hours worked. All other items of the new collective agreement become effective on the date of signature.
ARTICLE 25
BEGINNERS RATES
25:00 When the Company hires a new employee, the minimum hourly rate paid will be ten (10) cents higher than minimum hourly salary set by the law “Loi sur les normes du travail”.
25:01 This rate paid to beginners is applicable during a period of sixty (60) working days unless they achieve proficiency in their job before that time.
87
ARTICLE 26
INSURANCE BENEFITS
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS EMPLOYEES
Classification
l-Single
employees
P-Married
employees
Life	Accidental death	Weekly
Insurance and dismemberment income
benefit
10 000$ 10 000$
15 000$
15 000$
66 2/3%of normalweekly salary, subject to a maximum insurable ear-ings as from time to time provideo in the Unemployment Ins. Act. 1971
3-Dependents:
-	spouse 10000$
-	children 5 000$
EMPLOYEES AND DEPENDENTS
Daily hospital benefits:
Payment of semi-private accomodation. No limit of days.
Extended health benefits:
No deductible - 80% reimbursement.
The company will retain the refund amount from this registered pi an asconsented in the "agreement
letter”, and its contribution forthe three (3) years of the collective agreement will be:
88
-	Male or female employees without dependents... 31,11 $/month
-	Male or female employees with dependents... 46,32$/month
NOTE: Thefutureincreasesinthecost of premiums for benefits mentioned above will be paid 50% by the employee and 50% by the
Company.
ARTICLE 27 TECHNICAL CHANGES
27:00 When the Company has decided of a technicalchange, it will notifythe Union as soon as possible after this decision. The Company representatives and the Union Vice-President of the plant concerned will meet in order to discuss the importance of the changes contemplated and their impact on the employees.
27:01 For the purpose of the present article
“technical changes” means the automation, or renovation of existing machinery or replacement of existing machinery, the whole creating a permanent reduction in the number of employees on a given job or leading to the permanent elimination of one or many jobs. Also, is considered as “technical change” the closing of a department in a permanent manner in any given plant and thecombination
89
of many existing jobs leading to the creation of a new permanent job.
27:02 If for the reasons mentioned at 27:01 there results that one or many employees are subjected to a permanent lay-off due to such a technical change, the following provisions will apply:
a)	The employee with five (5) years or more of seniority subjected to a lay-off resulting from a permanent closing of a job will have the choice to be transferred on a permanent basis to another job occupied by an employee with less seniority or to receive a training according to the posting procedure at 15:02 and 15:03.
b)	The employee with less than five (5) years’ seniority subjected to a lay-off resulting from the permanent closing of a job will be transferred to another job occupied by an employee with less seniority on which he is already qualified and has already filled satisfactorily. If he is not qualified on any job, he will then be transferred permanently to another job of his choice provided it is occupied by an employee with less seniority and he will be eligible to receive if necessary a maximum training of fifteen (15) days on this new occupation.
c)	The employee bumped permanently from his job, as a result of the exercise of the choice to be transferred on another job by the employee subjected to a lay-off as per provisions described at 27:02 a) and b), will be permanently transferred to another job occupied by an employee with less seniority on which he is already qualified and has already filled satisfactorily.
90
However, the employee thus bumped with five (5) years and more of seniority will have the choice to receive atraining according to the posting procedure at 15:02 and 15:03 on another job occupied by an employee with less seniority, whereas the employee bumped with less than five (5) years' seniority, and who is not qualified on any other job, will then be transferred to another job of his choice provided it is occupied by an employee with less seniority and will be eligible to receive, if necessary, a maximum training of fifteen (15) days on this new occupation.
27:03 a) When a permanent reduction in the
number of employees becomes necessary on a job due to a technical change, and that only a certain number of employees occupying this same job are subjected to a permanent lay-off, the choice to remain on this job or, whichever is applicable, to be permanently transferred as per provisions described at 27:02 a) and b) will be made by order of seniority among the employees concerned, and this, up to the number of employees required for the said occupation.
b) Furthermore, the employee or employees concerned who are not subjected to a permanent lay-off will have the choice, during a minimum period of three (3) months and a maximum period of six (6) months after the end of the appropriate trial period, not to accomplish the job according to the new conditions, therefore he or they will be transferred permanently by order of seniority to another job as per provisions at article 27:02 a) and b). However, such permanent transfer may be done only after the Company has filled, following the posting procedure, the vacancy resulting from the decisionto transferee employee(s)concerned.
91
c)	If afterthe trial period, an employee isconsidered as not being able to accomplish the new job, he may then prevail himself of provisions at article 27:02 a) and b).
However if the employee concerned has been unable to qualify himself following application of the previous article's dispositions, he may then prevail himself of a second training period of ten (10) days on another job occupied by an employee with less seniority. It is understood that this refers to training on jobs an employee can normally qualify himself on in a period of ten (10) days. If the employee does not succeed in qualifying himself as per the period prescribed, he is then subjected once again to being laid-off.
27:04 a) The employees laid-off with four (4) years
or more of seniority for reasons following provisions provided at item 27:02 a) and b) will be eligible to receive a separation allowance as per their age and seniority as specified at 27:04 b) (table). An employee of fifty-five (55) years of age or more is not obliged to accept a job on which he is already qualified orto be retrained on another job he will have the choice to opt for a separation allowance if he so desires. It is understoodthat any employee who receives a separation allowance will lose his seniority and his employment will be terminated with the Company. ‘The methods of payment of this article are negotiable with the Union at the time of its application.”
92
8
27:04 b)
DOLLARS AMOUNT FOR SEPARATION ALLOWANCE YEARS OF SENIORITY
AGE	(0-3)	(4-5)	(6-8)	(9-11)	(12-14)	(15-19)	(20-24)	(25-29)	(30-PLUS)
60-65	lil	750	1 000	1 250	1 500	2 000	3 000	3 750	5 000
55-59	lil	750	1 000	1 250	1 500	2 000	3 000	3 750	5 000
50-54	lil	750	1 000	1 250	1 500	2 000	3 000	3 750	5 000
45-49	111	750	1 000	1 250	1 500	2 000	3 000	3 750	5 000
40-44	111	500	750	1 000	1 250	2 000	3 000	3 750	
35-39	111	500	750	1 000	1 250	2 000	3 000		
30-34	lil	500	500	1 000	1 250	1 500			
25-29	111	250	500	1 000					
20-24	111	250	500						
ARTICLE 28
HEALTH AND SAFETY
28:01 The Company must take reasonable steps to protect the health and ensure safety of its workers during working hours.
28:02 The Union and employees will cooperate with the Company and give full support for the introduction, application and the respect of measures and rules concerning health and safety of employees at work.
28:03 The Company and the Union agree to maintain a health and safety committee in which both are equally represented at each plant. Each committee isformedof two employees representing the workers and two members representing the Company.
The main function of this committee isto discuss all
questions related to health and safety of employees at work. To make recommendations when it is judged necessary.
28:04 The health and safety committee will meet at least once every three months.
The minutes of these meetings will be kept for future reference. The committee meetings will be held during normal operation hours and this without loss of pay for the committee members representing the workers.
28:05 When an employee has an accident at
work, the Company will give the first-aid treatment
94
required, as well as transportation to the hospital or to a doctor if necessary. Depending on the seriousness of the injury andthe doctor's decision, if required by the employee, the Company will supply the transport back to the plant. In the case where the seriousness of the injury is such that the employee is unable to walk or drive his car, if required, the Company willsupplythe transportation back to his home.
28:06 a) In the case where an employee injures himself during his regular shift and must be absent to receive medical treatments, he will not lose any salary for the duration of his shift provided he returns to work after the treatment, before the end of his regular shift. If the employee is kept at the hospital or if he is returned home by the doctor, on his return to work he must present to his foreman a medical certificatesigned bythe doctor, confirming his recommendation and specifying the date and time at which the employee has left the hospital or his off ice.
b) In the case where an employee has returned to work following an accident at the plant and still must continue to receive medical treatments according to the doctor's recommendations, when possible, he must try to schedule his appointments to receive treatments outside his regular working hours.
In the case where the doctor's medical treatments can not be scheduled outside the employee’s normal working hours, he can then prevail himself of dispositions provided by the workmen’s compensation act.
95
ARTICLE 29
DURATION AND RENEWAL
29:00 This agreement will be in force for a period of thirty-six (36) months extending to May 5th 1996.
29:01 Negotiations to amend this agreement will begin at least thirty (30) days before its expiration and the agreement will remain in force until negotiations are completed and the new collective agreement signed.
ARTICLE 30
CORRESPONDANCE
30:00 Unless otherwise foreseen, the official exchanges in theform of correspondance between Company management and the Union will be addressed by mail as follows:
TO THE COMPANY:
The Human Resources Manager Cleyn& Tinker Inc.
P.O. Box 3000 Huntingdon, Quebec JOS1 HO
OK
TO THE UNION:
The President
United Textile Workers of America Local 137
c/o Cleyn & Tinker Inc.
P.O. Box 3000 Huntingdon, Quebec JOS1 HO
COPY TO MONTREAL OFFICE TO:
General Agent
United Textile Workers of America 4377 West, Notre-Dame St.
Suite 6
Montreal, Quebec H4C 1 R9
30:01 All communications exchanged under this collective agreement will be considered as sent by one of the parties and received by the other three (3) working days following its posting date.
ARTICLE 31
GENERAL INFORMATION
LOISUR LES NORMES DU TRAVAIL
Information prepared by the “Commission des Normes du travail” in the form of pamphlets concerning various dispositions of the “Loi sur les normes du travail” will be available for the employees by the bulletin boards as well as thesecretary's office in each of the plants and the Company's
97
Personnel department.
All updates of these pamphlets by the “Commission des Normes du travail” will be at the employees' disposal in the areas previously mentioned when available.
APPENDIX TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT MAY 1993
APPENDIX 3
This appendix is part of the collective agreement between the United Textile Workers of America -local 137 and Cleyn & Tinker Inc.
The Company and the Union agree to the following meaning of the word “QUALIFIED” written at item 15:03 b):
a)	For hourly paid jobs the Company's judgement to determine when an employee is qualified will be based on the performance expected from an employee's normal ability, who has received a reasonable training for the job he has been promoted to.
b)	For jobs paid on incentive system (standard minute), an employee will be judgedqualified when his average performance will exceed (105%) for a full normal week.
However, the above mentioned is considered as a minimum performance required to fulfill the job
98
following a reasonable approbation period and cannot be considered as normal performance for an experienced worker. Furthermore, any employee having completed six (6) months on the job to which he has been promoted shall have an average performanceexceeding 115%, otherwise, the Company will have the right to return the employee on his previous job. However, the Company must give a job load and an earning opportunity allowing the employee to obtain an average performance greater than 115%.
APPENDIX TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT MAY 1993
APPENDIX 4
This appendix is part of the collective agreement between the United Textile Workers of America -local 137 and Cleyn & Tinker Inc.
Female employees with wholly dependents shall be considered in the same category as married men for the insurance benefits according to article 26.
The term “FEMALE EMPLOYEE WITH DEPENDENTS” signifies: unmarried mother, widower, separated, divorced or married when the husband is invalid and has not reached retirement age.
To be eligible, these female employees shall have wholly dependents. Will be considered as wholly dependents: children of age0 to 18 years and over
99
18 years of age will be considered as wholly dependents if such child is attending school or university full time, or if he is mentally or physically infirm or affected by a chronic illness.
The Union and the Company acknowledge the fact that each female employee eligibleto these benefits shall be considered with discretion.
Any false declaration on behalf of an employee to become illegally eligible to these benefits is subject to being discharged, however, the Company must inform the employee of this fact.
APPENDIX TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT MAY 1993
APPENDIX 5
This appendix refers to letters of agreement which are part of the collective agreement between the United Textile Workers of America - local 137 and Cleyn& Tinker Inc.
Whereas clauses of the collective agreement govern all generalities, letters of agreement, govern special situations or exception cases. Reference being made to the following letters of agreement:
-	Acquired right concerning working schedules.
-	Procedure to follow when vacancy requiring
only one (1) employee on a job and when he is scheduled regularly on days.
100
-	Additional salary increase for the third (3rd)
year of the collective agreement if CPI exceeds 3.5%.
-	Establishment of a twelve (12) hour winter
schedule for the job of “stationary engineer” at plant No. 6.
-	Time paid in the event of a lackof material on the job of burling and mending at plant No. 5.
-	Remuneration of members of the Union's
executive committee and method of
reimbursement of amounts paid.
101
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
between
CLEYN& TINKER INC. HUNTINGDON, QUEBEC
and
UNITED TEXTILE WORKERS OF AMERICA (C.L.C.)
LOCAL 137
The parties have signed this agreement in Huntingdon on October e*11993
REPRESENTING THE COMPANY:
Jean-Pierre Philie Human Resources manager
Roland Cuerrier
Industrial engeneering manager
Real Desgroseilliers
Manager - Yarn manufacturing division
Joe Renaud
Manager - Fabric Manufacturing division Pierre Lacasse
Manager - Dyeing and finishing division
102
Ginette Joly
Supervisor - Personnel services
REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE UNION U.T.W.A.
Pierre Jean Olivier Manager for Quebec
UNION REPRESENTATIVE I OOAI 137:
Jacques Leduc
President and V.-P. (Plant #6)
Remi Robidoux
Secretary - Treasure
Denis Leblanc
V.-P. (Plant #1)
Pierre Poirier V.-P. (Plant #2)
Yves Nadeau
V.-P. (Plant #4)
Joanne Allen V.-P. (Plant #5)
103