CONVENTION COLLECTIVE DE TRAVAIL
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
SOURCE	/I			
EN.	A;		(ir)	0(
TERM.	M		l/L	
N*. Of «Mno vies				[)
nomsre D'iMPLOYis		./) /} -jjji ■		
ERTRC-BETVEEK
LES USINES HUNTINGDON LTEEE HUNTINGDON MILLS LTD
ET-AI®
OUVRIERS UNIS DES TEXTILES D*AMERIQUE UNITED TEXTILE WORKERS OF AMERICA
LOCAL 101
:.V
Eb Vlfftnr 1c Ur Mil 1966 as 50 Ayrjl, 1989 Effective Me* 1st 1986 entlt April 30th 1989
index
Article	Page
1-	Purpo$e
2-	Recognition
3-	Employees
4“ Union Representation
5-	Hours of Work
6-	Statutory Holidays
7-	Minimum Call Pay
8-	Wages
9-	Posting
10-	Vacation 11 -Seniority 12-Hiring
} 3-Sat'ety and Health 14-Strikes and Lockouts ! 5-Absenteeism and Lateness
16-	Punctuality and Rest Periods
17-	Discipline
18-	Bulletin Board
19-	Union Shop
20-	Reservation of Managements Rights 21 -Bereavement Pay
22-	Jury Pay
23-	Payment for Negotiations
24-	Weekend Shifts
25-	Correspondence
26-	Duration of Agreement
27-	Letters of Entente
ARTICLE?
PURPOSE
The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish mutually, satisfactory and amicable relations between the employees and the Employers of the Huntington Mills Umfted/Les Usines Huntingdon Liee and it is recognized by the parties to this Agreement to be the duty of the Company and the employees, members of the Union, to co-operate for the advancement of such relations.
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION
The Company agrees to recognize the Union as the sole bargaining agency for
trie employees of the Company, ’"n matters pertaining to rates of pay, hours of work, working conditions and their general welfare in their relations with the Company.
ARTICLE 3
EMPLOYEES COVERED BY AGREEMENT
3.01	The term "employees" whenever found in this Agreement shall i net sate alt the employees of the Company in the mill and plant at Huntingdon, Quebec, and more particularly the employees designated In the schedule attached to the present Agreement except the following:
a)	The Directors and/or Managers
b)	The Executives and its Staff
c)	The Office Staff
d)	The foremen
e)	All day and night watchmen
RIGHTS Of STAFF MEMBERS
3.02a) The tasks which have to fee carried out by the positions covered by this Agreement and which appear an Schedule “A“ “Wage Rate$rtmay not be carried out by members of the staff on a regular or habitual basis, m long as an employee covered by this agreement is able and is available to (to the work. The above (toes not prevent members of the staff or trainees to do any work of an emergency nature or to teach or train employees ,tc put into production new machines or newly repaired machines to do experimental or development or research work which must be done in the judgement of the Company to control quality, to adjust equipment or to do repairs at any time.
MINOR MAINTENANCE
3.02b) The Company and the Union agree that for minor maintenance jobs or repairs in the mill which can be done without a contractor, the Company may hire laid off employees who are qualified
to do the job before hiring somebody from outside.
MAJOR CHANGES
3.02c) For the installation of new machines or major changes, the Company can for a temporary period, hire craftsmen from outside as long as this does not harm the craftsmen already there. The Company will notify the Union in writing as to the name of the firm and the contractor.
LEAD HANDS
3.G3 lead Hands" are not allowed to give or to issue warnings to other employees. When the foreman is not there, the lead hand has to see that his department operates effectively. He has to transmit the Company's orders to other employees as veil as any other reasonable instructions in order to ensure the proper running of the department.
The employee nevertheless has to execute these orders or instructions unless such orders present a danger to his life or his health.
ARTICLE 4
UNIOM REPRESENTATION
4.01	Onion stewards may assist employees in the mill in presenting their complaints to the designated representative of the company in accordance with the grievance procedure. One Union Steward shall represent each of the following departments:
1- Mixing 2~ Carding
3-	Sliver Knitting
4-	latch Needle
5-	Spring Needle Knitting
6-	Dyeing
7-	Sliver Finishing
8~ loop Needle Finishing
9-	Maintenance & General
10-	Shipping
This Union Steward shall be an employee of the department and shall have one (1) year of continuous service with the Company.
4.02	The Union shall notify the
Company of the names of the Union
Stewards.
The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the Union Stewards and the department each represents before the Company shell be required to recognize them.
UNION BUSINESS
4.03	It is understood that Union Stewards have their regular work to perform on behalf of the Company, and if it is necessary to service a grievance during working hours, an employee, (or employees), who would like a meeting with the president or an executive officer, will not leave their work without obtaining the permission of their foreman and will advise their
foreman when they have returned to work. These meetings can take place between eleven a.m. and 12 noon only, unless alternate arrangements have been made with the foreman.
4.04	In order that loss of work or production be kept to a minimum, it is understood that, whenever possible, grimaces will be serviced outside of working hours, awl on this understanding, the Company agrees that the pay of Union Stewards shall not be reduced for time lost in servicing grievances during their regular working hours.
EXECUTIVE AMD GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
4.05	The Union may elect four (4) employs who shall constitute the executive and grievance committee.
REPRESENTATIVE - EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE, GRIEVANCE, AND DEPARTMENTAL
4.05b) Whenever possible, there will be only one department representative, one executive and grievance committee representative per department.
FORMATION OF ONE COMMITTEE ONLY
4.S6 However, the four (4) members who form the executive' and grievance committee of Local 101 U.T.WA. will be the same four members.
4.0? If, however, the Company or the
ffnim has retained the service of an outside representative, either of them or
both may be present at the meeting of the Ilmen executive owl grievance committee with the Company.
MONTHLY MEETINGS
4.08	The executive and grievance committee and the representatives of the Company shall meet at least once a month, if either party so requests.
within the three (3) working days which precede a meeting, each of the parties will five in writing to the other party the general ardor of questions which it wants discussed at such meeting. However, in case of emergency and only for grievances which have come up In the three (-5) days preceding such meeting, said grievances may he considered, provided that» written notice is given at any time before- the opening of the meeting.
4.09	If the Company authorizes a meeting with the executive and grievance
committee members, the committee shall he paid for time lost if otherwise they would have been at work.
4.09b) At each executive and grievance committee .meeting with the.Company, minutes will be taken and they shall he signed at the end of such meeting and copies -transmitted to each party. Minutes of said meeting shall mi be construed as an agreement, bat will only reflect discussions which have taken place. Any agreement that may intervene between the parties shell he written on e separate document and countersigned by the parties.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
4.10	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees shall be adjusted m quickly as possible.
BEFORE FIUMC THE GRIEVANCE
4.10a) it is agreed that before e grievance is lodged in accordance with the following paragraph, the employee must first discuss his complaint 'with his foreman. If m employee has a complaint which he has been unable to settle with bis foreman, it mey toe taken up as a grievance within fifteen (15) days from the date of the cause of the grievance ift the following wanner and sequence:
STEP m. t
Between the aggrieved employee and his
foreman. Tte employee may be accompanied by the Union Steward for this department, If he so desires.
in the departments where there is no Union Steward, tte employee may ask for the presences of a local Executive Officer, in such a case, the foreman may request the presence of the Personnel Director or his representative.
STEP HO. 2
Within three (3) full working days following decision in Step No. 1; Between the executive and grievance committee and the foreman or superintendent and/or any other person or persona designated by him. After receiving the grievance 1n writing, the foremanor supersntendant shall render his decision m writing to the executive and grievance committee within not titers than three (3) full working days.
Failing a settlement, then:
STEP NO. 3
Within a calendar week following the decision in Step Ho. 2:
Between the executive.' and grievance committee and Vm Personnel Manager of the Company end/or any other person or persons designated by him. After receiving the grievance in writing, the Personnel Manager of the Company will give his decision in writing to the executive end grievance committee within not more than one (1) week.
ARBITRAGE
4.11	falling «settlement under the above procedure of any difference concerning the meaning or alleged violation of this Agreement., the matter indiapute nay be taken to arbitration as described helov, and if m written request is received vfttrtn ten (10) full working days after the decision in Step No. 3 is given , it stall be deemed to have beers settled or abandoned.
4.12	Any difference or grievance arising directly between the Company and the Union may be submitted in
writing by either party at Step Mo. 3.
4.	i 3 • Any edj ustment atisi ng out of the settlement of an employee's grievance or a group of employees under any stage of the Grievance Procedure or Arbitration, shall net be made retroactive'before-the date it was presented thereunder by the employe® or the group of employees concerned.
4.14 Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays will not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken under the Grievance or Arbitration Procedures. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may at any time be extended by mutual agreement, between, the Company and the Union.
4, !5 All decisions arrived at between the Personnel Manager of the Company and the Union Stop Committee shat! be final and binding on the Company, the Union and the employee or employees concerned.
DISCHARGE OF PROBATIONARY
EMPLOYEES
4.16 New employees vi i! be considered as probationary employes mr the first sixty (60) working dap of their employment. However, this period rosy be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. Probationary employees may be dismissed by the Company if not found satisfactory and accordingly the dismissal of a probationary employee cannot be the subject of a grievance.
DISCHARGE Of PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
4.3 ?&) A claim by a permanent employee
that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Personnel Manager of tbs Company or Ms nominee within fifteen (15) calendar days after the employee ceases to work for*tr» Company, and step Nos. I and 2 of the grievance procedure will be omitted in any such cm.
4.17b) ft is understood that an employe® who has teen fired or suspended on the spot shall have the privilege to meet with a Union Officer before leaving the Company's premises.
4.18	Such special grievance may be settled under the Grievance Procedure
by.
a)	confirming the Management's action i n dismiss? nc ihe permanent employee.
b)	reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or
e) fiu any other arrangement which may fee deemed just and equitable.
ARBITRATION
4.19	If a written request for arbitration is matte in conformity; with paragraph 4.11, the case will immediately be submitted to a single arbitrator.
CHOICE Gf AH ARBITRATOR
4.20	In the case when a single arbitrator is requested as per paragraph 4.11, the single arbitrator will be chosen in rotation as per the following numbered panel:
1-	Marc Gravel
2-	Claude Lauzon
3-	Roland Tremblay 4“ Jean-Guy Clement 5- Laurent Cossette
MEMBERS OF THE PANEL
4.21	Any member of the panel whose turn tea come up to act as single arbitrator and cannot accept or refuses to accept, is not requested again until his name appears at the top of the list i n the normal rotation order.
4.22	By mutual agreement, the parties can modify and/or add arbitrators to the above-mentioned list.
LIMITATION OF POWER
4.23	The single arbitrator chosen as per the dispositions of this agreement cannot add to, modify, alter or render a decision which is not in conformity with this agreement.
SHARING OF EXPENSES
4.24	Each of the parties hereto will bear its own arbitration expenses. The parties will jointly bear the expenses of the single arbitrator.
DECISION
4.25	The single arbitrator, as mentioned in paragraph 4.22, should render a written decision not later than thirty (30) days following the last audition; this decision will be final and binding upon all parlies to this agreement including the employee or employees concer ned.
4.26	Decision of the arbitrator which involves payment of a sum of money.
if, following the single arbitrator's decision, the payment of a sum of money is involved and the amount is contested, the single arbitrator who heard the grievance will assess and fix the amount.
4.27	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
FOREMAN’S ORDERS
4.28	Whenever an employee feels that orders or instructions received from a foreman are not in accordance with this Agreement he, nevertheless, must carry out those orders or instructions unless those orders put his life or health in danger.
ARTICLE 5
SCHEDULE Of HOURS - REGULAR

3 11 - ?
30 minutes paid if
40 HOURS 3 Shifts 1st - 7 -2nd - 3-3rd - 11 lunches: replaced
Breaks: 10 minutes paid if replaced
40 HOURS 2 Shifts 1st -7-3
2 nd - 3 - 11
Lunches: 30 minutes paid if
Breaks: 10 minutes paid if replaced
40 HOURS
1 Shift
1st - 7 - 12/1 - 4 p.m. Lunches: One hour - not paid Breaks: 10 minutes paid if replaced
44 HOURS 2 Shifts DAYS (A)
Mon-Thurs
Lunches:
Breaks:
7-12 1-5 12-1 Unpaid 9-9:10, 2:30-2:40
Fridays:	6-12,12:30-2:30
Lunches:	12-12:30 Unpaid
Breaks:	9-9:10
OR
DAYS (B)
Mon-Thurs
Lunches:
Breaks:
7-12 12:30-4:30 12-12:30 Unpaid 9-9-.10, 2:30-2:40
Fridays:
7-12,12:30-3:30
Lunches:	12-12:30 Unpaid
Breaks:	9-9:10
NIGHTS	(A)
hon-Thurs	5-tO 10:30-2:00
lunches:	10-10:30 Paid
Breaks:	8-8:10,12-12:10
Fridays:	2:30-5 5:30-10:30
Lunches:	5-5:30 Paid
Breaks:	8-8:10
	OR
WIGHTS	(8)
Mon-Thurs	4:30-10, 10:30-1:30
lunches:	10-10:30 Paid
Breaks:	8-8:10, 12-12:10
Fridays:	3:30-5 5:30-10:30
lunches:	5-5:30 Paid
Breaks:	8-8:10
S. 44 HOURS	
1 Shift	
MV	(A)
Moft-Thurs	7-12 1-5
Lunches:	12-1 Unpaid
Breaks:	9-9:10, 2:30-2:40
Fridays:	7-12 1-4
lunches:	12-1 Unpaid
Breaks:	9-9:10
	OR
DAY	<B>
Hon-Thurs	7-12 12:30-4:30
lushes:	12-12:30 Unpaid
Breaks:	9-9:10, 2:30-2:40
Fridays:	7-12 12:30-3:30
lunches:	12-12:30 Unpaid
Breaks:	9-10
6.	44 HOURS
CONTINUOUS
MVS
Mon-Thurs	7-4
lunches:	30 minutes paid if
replaced
Brake:	2/10 minutes if
replaced
Friday:	6-2
lunches:	30 mi nutes paid if
replaced
Breaks;	1/10 minute if
replaced
MIGHTS
Mon-Thurs	4-1
lunches:	30 mi mutes paid if
replaced
Breaks:	2/10 minutes if
replaced
Friday:	2-10
lunches;	30 mi mutes paid if
replaced
Breaks:	1/10 mi mute if replaced
SUMMER HOURS
For the following four departments only:
1)	Mixing
2)	Maintenance
3)	Loop Finishing
4)	Sliver Finishing
Special Friday hours will be in effect from the first Friday in June until Labour Day.'
DAY
Friday:
lunches:
Breaks:
NIGHTS
Friday:
lunches:
Breaks:
6-12 12:30-2:30 12-12:30 Unpaid 9-9:10
2:30-5 5:30-10:30 5-5:30 Paid
8-8:10
m employees must punch their card during their lunch periods.
Employees in each deparmeni with two options will vote by department for either option "A“ or “B“. This schedule will then be in effect for the duration of the contract. This does not apply to summer hours.
Paid lunches:
If m employee is replaced where possible, and on night shift.
Breaks:
~ 2/tO minute breaks per shift with more than 8 hours of work.
-	I /10 mi mite break on 8 tours of work or 1 ess.
Exceptions:
-	Summer tours
-	Option "6“ not available to shipping, dyehotrse, blower mm operator.
-	loop Finishing - Foam Tenter & 1-2-3 Nappe*". start one tour earlier than the department and finish one tour earlier than the department.
SATURDAY OVERTIME
5.02	All work performed on Saturday
stell to paid at the rate of time and one toif the regular rate af pay. This clause will not apply during -a weekend shift as spadfisd in Article 24.
SUNDAY OVERTIME
5.03	All work performed on Sunday shall to paid at the rate of double the basic rata of pay. This clause vill not apply during a weekend shift as specified
in Article 24.
OVERTIME - HOLIDAYS
5.04 Alt work performs*} on statutory Iwlisjays with pay as listed in Article 6 shan he paid at the rate of time and one half the basic rate of pay.
OVERTIME ~ METHOD OF CALCULATION
5.05 Employees will not receive overtime twice for hours worked in any one day or fa any one week. Overtime payment will be made only for hoars that have’ been worked above regular working per cay or per week
CHANGES IN SCHEDULES OF WORK
5.06 Schedules of work shall be, from Monday to Friday inclusively. All workers shall be warned before the end of their shift on Friday of their regular shift for the following 'week and a notice shall be posted in their department to this effect. (This does not apply in the event of a layoff.)
CHANGES IN WORKING HOURS
5.0? The working hours may be modified in order to increase efficiency, to balance production, to improve quality in the event of force majeur or other valid reasons. Such changes will be made only after agreement between the Company and the Union. If no agreement can be reached, the Company may then institute the change for a period of 90 consecutive days. During this period, the matter may be submitted to arbitration. The mandate of the arbitrator will decide whether the proposed change is justified in order to achieve the desired results of increased efficiency, balancing of production , improvement of quality, force majeur or other valid reasons.
S.08 Calculation of overtime will not i nci ude shift premi urns.
GOVERNMENT IMPOSED CHANGES
5.C9 If, during the life of this agreement, government ordinances reduce the normal work week's tours to below 44, the Company agrees to pay overtime on the number of hours stove that maximum amount, amt still continue to operate 44 tours per week in those departments where presently 44 tours is a standard week.
NO GUARANTEED WORKING HOURS
5.10	Tte <tei1y and weekly tours of work mentioned in this Collective Agreement
are for purposes of calculating overtime only end should not to interpreted as being guaranteed.
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
5.11	In the event that overtime is required on a job, it will be offered in the following order:
1)	- To the operator of that machine on that shift;
2)	“ To the operator of that machine on the following shift;
3)	- if no one is available on that job, it will be offered in rotation in declining seniority among those employees who are available in the department and are able to carry out the work given equality of skill, competence and efficiency.
4)	- in rotation to all employees <m that job i n decli m fig seniority..
5)	- The Company will attempt to ensure that overtime is offered equitably by starting the rotation period at the 1st of each month.
6}“ If an employee believes that he has not teen offered overtime fairly, he should discuss it with his foreman.
7} in the event of an error in the distribution of overtime, the company will make the necessary arrangements to offer the affected employee another opportunity on th® occupation, and/or another occupation where overtime has been given and this as soon as possi hie.
8)	if the Company does not give an employee the opportunity to regain overt!rite, the employee may file a grievance in accordance with the grievance procedure.
9)	if .an employee refuses overtime work, it will be the employee’s responsibility to advise Ms foreman when he is next ready to accept such overtime.
OVERTIME ON SATURMYS
5.12	if there is overtime in a department m Saturdays and there are not enough people available in the department, the Company will give the overtime to employees qualified from other departments, if there are m employees available in the mill and there are employees laid off who are qualified for the work, the company will hire these employees, (f there is no one qualified available, the Company will train laid off employees before training anyone from the outside. This clause will be a trial for a period of six (6) months. This period can be prolonged by mutual agreement between the two parties. Nevertheless, if there is enough work, the Company will start an additional shift.
IF USABLE TO REPORT TO WORK
5.13 The Company asks that employees who cannot report to work to advise their foreman or' a representative of the
Company ss soon as possible rather than to wait IS minutes (or one hour) before the start of their shift. The aim of this demand is to make it easier to replace
him.
5.14 An employee who cannot report to work must advise his foreman or the representative of the Company at least:
a)	15 minutes before the beginning of the morning shift.
b)	One hour before the beginning of the ■ afte r noo n o r eve ni rsg shift.
Failure to do this, will constitute a breach of discipline and will result in a reprimand.
ABSENT MORE THAN 3 DAYS
5.1	S If m employee is absent for more titan three (3) dap, he must advise his foreman.at least 24 hours in advance of the date of ins return to work.
ARTICLE 6
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
fe:0! A) There will be 12 statutory holld&p
St Jean Bairtiste Canada Day Labour toy Thanksgiving '
Day Befor X-Mas X-Mas
Dag After X-Mas
Day Before few Years	•
Hew Years Dag Day After few Years
6:0! B) STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
June 23 198 June 30 198 Sept 1 1986 Oct 13 1986 Dec 24 1986 23 Dec 1986 toe 26 1986 Dec 31 1986
Jan I 198? Jen 2 ! 98? April 1? 191 April 20 191 June 22 !9S June 29 19? Sept 7 1987 Oct 12 1981 Dec 24198* toe 25 198 Dec 28 198' Dec 3! 196”
Jan 1 1988 Jan 4 1988
Anri! 1 19!
1906
St Jean fiabtfste
Canada Day Labour Dag Thanksgiving Day BeforX-Mw X-Mw
Day After X-Mas
Day Before few Years
198?
few Years toy toy After few Years Good Friday Easter Monday St Jean Babtiate Canada toy ' Labour toy Thanksgiving toy Before X-Mas X-Mas
Day After X-Mas Dsy Before few Years
1986
few Years toy toy After few Years
Easter Monday St Jean Bsbtiste Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Before X-Mss
Day After X- lias Before New Years
April 4 1988 Juris 24 1988 July ! 1988 Sept 5 1988 Oet 10 198© Dec 23 1988 Dec 26 1988 Dec 27 1988 Dec 30 1988
New Years Day Day After Mew Years Good Friday Easter Monday St Jean BaiJtiste Canada Day
Jan 2 1989 Jfen 3 1989
March 24 1989 March 27 1989 June 23 1989 June 30 1999
SPECIAL HOLIDAYS
6:0tC)The 13th and 14th holiday will always be paid in accordance with article 6:02 and will Me place between X-Mas and Mew Years to replace any nan-paid dap should they exist.
Nevertheless, should the company decide to operate one, or more departments , this will be a normal working day , but these dap will he paid at double time. C Regular wy and holiday pay)
Tie !3tfe Mifey will fee in effect start*ay In 1986 . The 14tti Mftfay will feeyin only in 198?.
HOLIDAY FAY ELIGIBILITY
6.02	To be eligible for Statutory Holiday pay, it is understood that employees must fulfill the following conditions:
t) Have worked for the Company for thirty (30) calendar dap.
b)	Have worked their full scheduled shift on the work day immediately preceding and their full scheduled shift on the work day immediately following
the Statutory Holiday concerned; except In the following eases:
1)	Death in the family as outlined in Article 21.
2)	in the case of lay off, an employee will be eligible if tm period of absence does not exceed fourteen 04) consecutive calendar dap immediately preceding the holiday.
3)	In the case of sickness or accident attested by a valid doctor's certificate, the employee will be eligible if his absence Pea not exceed am (1) week immediately preceding the holiday.
4)	Having received in advance written permission from the Company.
5)	However, if an employee has not worked the declared working dap preceding and following the statutory holiday or statutory holidays, and that more than one statutory holiday falls consecutively, the Company will not penalize the employee for more than one statutory holiday.
ARTICLE 7 MiNIMUM tell PAY
7.01 Any employee called tack to work outside of Ms regular hours shall receive a minimum of three (3) tours ’pay at Ms regular rate or time and one half for time so worked, whichever is higher.
Mi Mi MUM REPORTING ALLOWANCE
7.02	If an employee reports for work at the regularly scheduled time for his
shift, he stall be entitled to a minimum of four (4) tours pay at this regular rate unless previously notified by the Company not to report for work, provided that if requested by the Company, the employee stall perform a minimum of four (4) hours of avoid Me work that may to assigned to him. To be eligible to these four (4) tours of retorting allowance, an employee must stay in Ms department, unless to received instructions to the contrary from a representative of the Company. This section stall not apply in the case of power or steam failure, fire or any other cause whatsoever, beyond the control of the Company.
ARTICLE 8
WAGES
8.01 The Company agrees to,pay and the Union agrees to accept the wage rates enumerated in schedule “A* attached.
SHIFT PREMIUMS
8.02
a) Ail shift starting lifter 12 noon will receive a shift premium of 12. t per tour for every tour worked on a regular shift.	'
b)	All shifts whose regular working
tours end pat midnight will receive a shift premium of 17$ per tour.
c)	if the Company puts into operation a rotating shift which would work from 11 P.M. at night to 7 A.M in the morning, this shift would receive a premium of 20$ per tour.
d)	Employees who are scheduled to work on permanent night shift shall receive a premium of 22$ per tour.
e)	If the Company requests an employee to change Ms regular shift to start before 6 A.M. on regular time, the employee will be entitled to a tonus of 20$ per hour.
f)	This 20$ premium will apply for shifts beginning before 7 A.M. in the dyetous* only (instead of at 6 A.M. m specified in c). This is being given because of tto error in the pay schedule and only applies in the dyetoisse.
JOB REASSIGNMENT
8.03a) An employee temporarily assigned to another job for a period in excess of five (S) working days, shall receive the rate of the job to which he has been assigned or the rate of the previously held job, whichever is higher, for the first five (5) days, tto previous rate applies. If there is no agreement to the contrary, the stove change will not exceed twenty one (21) calendar days. After this delay (21 days), tto fixed rate of tto new job will become his regular rate.
PERMANENT TRANSFER
8.03b) Employees who through seniority transfer one permanent basis, will receive tto rate applicable to their
new job after'T-e (5} days taking into account the ability of the employee to perform trns job as efficient!y as the other employees on the 300 or the employes whom he replaced.
LAY-OFF ORDER
8.03c) The employees will be demoted in the same way they were promoted in care of lay-off.
RAISES
8.04 If a raise is given i n a job category without it being previously negotiated with the Union, employees in the came job category will automatically receive the same adjustment , .
RATE FOR NEW EMPLOYEES
8.05a) The rate for new employees will be minimum wage plus $1.00 per hour. This rate will be in effect for the first thirty (30) days after which the employee will receive $1.00 per hour additional every month until the established rate for his particular category is reached. The Company may increase the pay at a faster rate, but in any case, the employee will reach the established rate after 4 moot ns.
RATE FOR STUDENTS
8.05b) As long as there is no employee laid off, the company may. engage students during school vacations at or higher than the legal rate for students.
8.05c) The following details will be given in writing with the pay:
1 - Name and surname of employee
2-	Pay period date
3-	Gross salary
4-	Overtime
5~ itemized deductions
6-	Net amount oaid
7-	wherever sees*Pie. the amount of .I ft, g to r v •,< *, i . a ■ ! *!.’ fi 1 ii.j. y.>
ARTICLE 9
POSTING OF OPENINGS
9.01a) All job vscmtes occuring within
the scope of this Agreement shall be posted on the bulletin for a period of ! working day in the department
9.01b) If there Is no application In that department, the vacancy shall then be posted in the mill for 2 working days.
9.01c) in choosing between two or more employees who have applied for a posted position, the company will give preference to the applicant from the same department where the job opening exists, before choosing someone from another department.
9.02	Candidates i nterested 1 n an open! ng have to sign their names in the space reserved tor this purpose on the notice. A copy of the notice with the names of those who signed for it will be given to the Union, with the name encircled of the person chosen tor the job.
9.03	A copy of this notice will be given to the President of the Union. The dates of the posting will be the only legal ones recognized.
CANDIDATE SELECTION
9.04	In filling vacancies under this article, provisions of article 11.OS shall govern in that preference shall be given to the employee having the longest service provided there is equality of competence, efficiency and skill. The Company will give a 5-day training period to the employee selected to fill the vacancy.
EUGIBiUTV TO POST
9.05	Only those employees may bid for a vacant position who have net changed to a new position in the last six (6) months.
UNSUCCESSFUL POSTING
9.06	If an employee is transferred by virtue of this posted vacancy clause, fie may, if he desires, return to his previous occupation within five (5) days following his transfer, if he returned voluntarily to Ms previous occupation, he may not apply for another transfer for a period of six (6) months, in his own department, but he will have to wait nine (9) months to apply in awiher department.
POSTING - NEW EMPLOYEES
9.07	Newly hired employees who will have completed their probation period will be eligible to post in their own department but ’will not be able to pest in another department before they have one year’s seniority in accordance with Article 9.10.
AFTER TWO POSTINGS
9.08	When a position becomes vacant and is filled by art employee covered by this Collective Agreement, the position which he previously occupied thereby becomes vacant. A second posting will then be made for this position. After these two postings, the Company reserves the right to select an employee from the mill before hiring from the outside.
POSTING - NO APPLICATIONS
9 09a) in the event that m bids are received within the delays mentioned above, the Company shell select any employee it desires who is willing to accept the position, or be free to engage from the outside.
9,09b) if there is a permanent opening for which there is no application, the Company will engage those who are laid off m long as they have the competence, the efficiency and the skill before attempting to hi re from the outside.
POSTING -
UNSUCCESSFUL APPLICATIONS
9.to If the Company h&s posted a vacancy, and there have teen m applications for the vacancy, or if those who have applied have not succeeded, the Company may hire a new employee from the outside.
TEMPORARY POSTING -MORE THAN 3 WEEKS
9.11a) When there is a temporary job vacancy far more than three (3) weeks, because of sickness, accident or any other reason, tte vacancy will be posted by the Company. The employee of the same department, (in accordance with article 9.04) will return to his regular occupation when the absent employee returns to work. This will not prevent the employee who accepted this temporary vacancy to apply on another permanent vacancy, and this at all times. Furthermore, if this temporary vacancy becomes permanent, it will be posted m specified in Article 9.01 of the Collective Agreement,
9.! lb) if there is a temporary vacancy for more than three (3) weeks, and there have been no applications in that department, the Company will train a laid off person from this department er from another department as long as that person has the ability to fill the job. This person transfers his seniority rights only for economic benefits (eg vacations) but not for order of lay-off or bumping...
ARTICLE 10
VACATION
LESS THAN ONE TEAR
10.01	a) Employees covered by the present agreement, who at vacation time will have been in the continuous employ of the Company for a period of less than one (1) year, shall be entitled to four per cent (4*) of their annual income earned before June t of the current par, and one (1) day of vacation for each month worked, but not more than two (2) weeks vacation. However, the Company will not be obliged to give employment during the vacation shutdown.
MORE THAN ONE ¥EAS* Of SERVICE ! 0:01 B) All the employees who have been in the continuous employ of the company far more than:
1 year 4.0*
4 years 5.25* 7 years 6.00*
8 years 6.00* 11 years 7.0%
14 pars 7.5* f 7 years 8.0% 20 years 8.5* 25 years 9.00* 25 pars 10.5*
2 weeks
2	weeks
-2 weeks for
1987	only - 5 weeks in
1988
3	weeks 3 weeks 3 waeks
3	weeks
4	weeks 4 weeks 4 weeks
The employees will receive the benefits of the percentages and weeks indicated above in the year 1987.
CALCULATION OF VACATION PAY
10.01c) Vacation pay for these employees who have completed one (1) year of service or more as of June 1 (preceding the vacation period) shall be based on total salary earned for the work
done during the gear ending on the 31st of May,
10.0Id) Vacation pay far employees who win not have completed a year of service at June 1 preceding the vacation period, will be four per cent (4%) of the wages earned up to May St of the year preceding the vacation period.
ANNUAL SHUTDOWN
10.Ote) The Mill shall be closed for two
(2) complete weeks for annual vacation during the last two {2) full weeks of the month of July. However, this period could be changed by mutual agreement as long as this agreement is reached before April IS.
VACATION TIMETABLE-IN EXCESS OF TWO WEEKS
10.0! f) An employee eligible for a third end fourth week holiday will discuss these dates with his foremen between the 1st and 15th of April. Preference shall be given by seniority.
NOTIFICATION OF VACATION PAY
10.0	tg) The Company shall inform each employee of the amount he will receive for vacation pay before June 30 if the employees make this request to their foreman between June 1 and June 15. This applies to employees with one year ai^ more of service.
10.0	th) An employee who leaves the service of the Company shell receive the percentage of vacation to which he is entitled according to the remuneration scale shown above.
VACATION CARRIED TO ANOTHER DATE
10.Oli) In accordance with paragraphs
10.01	f) end iO.Oly) of this Agreement, should an eligible employee be unable to take and/or wants to change the date of
Ms vacation as scheduled (the first tiros), ha will have the right to schedule his vacation to another time of the gear. However, he will ml change an»U*r employee's vacation which has already bmn scheduled in accordance with Article 10 of this Agreement
Moreover, he will advise his foreman at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the desired dates to schedule Ms vacation and seniority shall prevail when determining Ms choice of vacation weeks in question.
This clause does not apply for the annual
closing for vacation.
10.01)} However, the employee will take his vacation in the reference year, that is from January 1 to December 31 of each year of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 11
SENIORITY U3T
11,0	la) A list of seniority standings will be posted in each department, showing the name and the occupation of each employee in that department with his length of continuous service with the Company.. This Ust will be revised every six (6) months on May 1 and November 1 of each year. Copies of these posted lists shall be forwarded without delay to the Union. After such posting, each list shall become final unless it is disputed within the following 30 days
However, in the esse of employees who are absent from work for just cause, such posted list shall become final unless it is disputed within the following 90 days.
■
Any employee can, under the grievance procedure if necessary dispute the accuracy of the list, in any event, such grievances cannot dispute the accuracy of any previous final list.
SENIORITY LISTPROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
It ,01b) An employee will be considered on probation, end his name will not be placed on the seniority list until he has completed sixty (60) working days for the Company.
Moreover, it is agreed that art employee who is on probation and working in many departments during his probationary period will have his seniority accredited to him in the last department, where he has completed his probation period of sixty (60) (toys.
However, this does not apply for a temporary transfer made at the request
of the Company.
H.Olc) Rule to fellow in order to determine seniority for employees, hired on the same day:
!f employees are hired on the seme day and consequently hove the same amount of seniority on the -seniority list., their name will appear on the list alphabetically, by their family name.; this will t* a permanent rule which will serve to settle seniority for employees hired on the same day and the order of seniority.
WORK OTHER 7 HAN REGULAR OCCUPATION
11.02	it is understood that the occupation appearing an the seniority list will be the employee's regular occupation. Nevertheless, an employee can be assigned to another job, if there is a shortage of work on Ms machine or if the Company has a more important job to be done, and the employee will cooperate with the Company to do a good job. As long as it is possible to do so, the Company will not, unnecessarily, transfer m employee from his occupation to replace film with another employee.
TRANSFER- LAY-OFF WITHIN 6 MONTHS
11.03a) When an employee is transferred permanently from one department to another department, his seniority will be credited to him after five (5) days, if he is laid off within the first six (6) months following Ms transfer, he will have to return to Ms old job. After this delay of six (6) months, Article 11.08 will apply.
TRANSFER - TEMPORARY
t i .035) In the case of a temporary transfer from one department to another, for an opening of less than six
(6) months, the Company will give preference to employees who are laid off as long as they can accomplish the work In a satisfactory manner before hiring someone from outside the Company, for these six (6) months, the employee will keep his seniority in the department from where he was transferred in the flrst place. After this delay of six (6) months, the Company will have to repost this job in accordance with Article 9.01.
LAY-OFF ORDER
11.04	Provided there is equality of skill, competence and efficiency and subject to the limitations of paragraph 11.018 stove, the last employee hired shall, in case of lay-off, be the first laid off, and the last employee laid off shall to the first rehired.
ORDER OF PROMOTION, ETC..
11.05	In cases of promotions, upgradings, transfers and demotions, preference shall he given to the employee having the longest service, subject 1o the same conditions respecting skill, competence and efficiency as provided in paragraph 1! .04above.
TRANSFER FROM UNION TO STAFF
11.06a) if an employee is transferred to a position 'which is not in the bargaining unit, lie can keep his seniority within the bargaining unit for up to twelve (12) months. If that employee 'wants to return to the bargaining unit, at the request of the Union, he will have to pay Ms Union dues tor the time to worked outside the bargaining unit and will be able to replace any employee who has less seniority in Ms previous department, if he is qualified to do the job. if to does not return after 12 months, he will lose his seniority rights.
(6) months, the Company will give preference to employees who are laid off as long as they can accomplish tte work in a satisfactory manner before hiring someone from outside the Company. For these six (6) months , the employee will keep Ms seniority in the department from v/here he was transferred in the first place. After this delay of six (6) months, the Company will have to repost this job i n accordance with Article 9.01.
LAY-OFF ORDER
11.04	Provided there is equality of skill, competence and efficiency and subject to the limitations of paragraph 11.018 above, the last employee hired shall, in case of lay-off, he the first laid off, and the last employee laid off shall be the first rehired.
ORDER O'F PROMOTION, ETC...
11.05	In cases of promotions, upgradings, transfers and demotions, preference shall he given to the employee having the longest service,
subject to the same conditions respecting skill, competence and efficiency as prdvidedin paragraph 11.04above,
TRANSFER FROM UNION TO STAFF
11 .Q&a) if an employee is transferred to a position which is hot in the bargaining unit, lie can keep his seniority within the bargaining unit for up to twelve (12) months. If that employee wants to return to the bargaining unit, at the request of the Union, lie will have to pay Ms Union dues for the time lie worked outside the bargaining unit and will be able to replace any employee who has less seniority in ids previous department, if he is qualified to do the job. if he does not return after 12 months, he will lose his seniority rights.
TRANSFER1 - STAFF TO UNION
I t.06b) If an employee who is not in the bargaining unit Is transferred to an occupation within the bargaining writ, the Union agrees that his gears of service will he credited to him for his holidays and any other fringe benefits Nevertheless, the amount of gears credited to him for seniority will be decided by mutual agreement between the Company ana the Union.
TRANSFER TO SUPERVISORY POSITIONS
11.07 Promotions to supervisory
positions (*s specified in Article 3.01) shall not be subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
'LAY-OFF/!,ESS THAN 2 DAYS
11 ,08a) In case of lay-off of two (2) continuous- dap of work or less, the Company shall have the right to lay off employees without regard to their seniority, since it is agreed that plant operation should be scheduled in accordance with the weds of production ortd the requirements of quality, nevertheless, the parties do recognize the necessity of reserving available work to employees with more seniority end will co-operate in seeing that in as much as possible, only employees with less seniority will be laid off or work less hours when necessary to do so.
LAY-OFF LESS THAN 6 MONTHS
fi 08b}
S) ORDER
In the event of a temporary lay-off Cmore than two (2) consecutive days, but less than six (6) months) in a department, the last employee hired will be the first one laid off.
2.	BUMPING PROCEDURE IN THE SAME DEPARTMENT
The employee with lesssentority on the
occupation where it is recessary to lay off will have the choice to take the lay off or replace any employee with less seniority in that department, as long as he can fill the job in a satisfactory way and provided such replacement will not interfere duly with the needs of production and the requirements of quality. Ha will immediately advise the foreman of his department of the choice he makes., and the job he will take, if he decides-to use his humping rights.
5. VOLUNTARY LAY-OFF
If the employee in question decides to take the lay-off, he will have to go back to work when Ms job reopens full time, lathe event that his job does not reopen, the employee went be able to use his bumping rights in his department before a delay of six (6) months.
4. RETURN TO WORK AFTER VOLUNTARY LAY-OFF
If an employee who has been laid off for six (6) months decides to use his bumping right in his department, he will hsve to mfify the Company of his d-'raion in the week preceding the end of tft"' ;i>:th month.
5. EXTENSION OF VOLUNTARY LAY-OFF
If he decides to stay on the lay-off, he won't H able to use his bumping in his department before an additional delay of six (6) months. After that period, he will have to use his bumping rights in Ms department as tong as it is possible to do so.
LAY-OFF MORE THAN 6 MONTHS
11.03c)
t. BUMPING
In case of a long term lay-off, (more than six (6) months), the employees who have been laid off and can't use their bumping rights In their department will be able to use i t through the plant by choosing another occupation where there is an employee with less seniority.
2.	ELIGIBILITY FOR BUMPING
Nevertheless, that bumping right will not apply to employees with less than two (2) years' seniority.
3.	BUMPING /TRAINING PERIOD
Employees with two (2) years or more will be entitled to one (1) (toy adaptation per year of seniority on their new occupation, up to 15 working days. The transfer of their seniority will occur at the same time.
4.	BUMPIMG/UNSUCCE5SFUL ATTEMPT
It i3 understood that if after the adaptation period, the employee is not fully qualified for his new occupation, the Company may assign him to another occupation, in the plant, that does not require or requires little training. After that, tf the employe® does not qualify, he will fee laid off.
5.	REOPENING OF OLD POSITION
Nevertheless, if work should pick up in their previous department within the six (6) months following their transfer, the employees who have been transferred will have to go back to their previous occupation, if this transfer exceeds six (6) months, and work resumes m their old department, the employee will have
the right to choose between his old or his new occupation for the next six (6) months. After this period, this will become his permanent position.
6.	SIMULTANEOUS TRAINING
The Company will not have to train more than two (2) employees at a time per department. !f there 3hould be more than two (2) employees to be trained in one department, the Company shall respect the employee’s seniority and the delap mentioned in this article.
REFUSAL Of BUMPING RIGHTS
11.Q8d) In the event that an employee refuses to use his bumping rights within the delap mentioned in this article, he will have to wait for the Company to call him bmk to work when there is an opening, if he refuses to go back to work when requested, he will lose *11 seniority rights as well as his job for the Company.
LOSS OF SENIORITY
11.09 An employee will lose all seniority and Ms job with the Company
if :
a)	He/She voluntarily quits the employ of the Company.
b)	He is justifiably discharged and that his discharge is not changed by the grievance or arbitration procedure.
e) Follow! ng a lay-off, falls to return to work within five (5) working dap after he has been notified by the Company by registered mail or fails to advise the Company within five (5) working dap of receipt of notice given by registered mail to return to work, of Ms intention so to return. If an employee informs the Company of his intention to return to work and claims he is unable to report
on the (fete and at the time specified due to reasons beyond his control, his name will be left on the seniority list provided that the reasons given are recognized as being satisfactory and exact after verification.
d) An employee who has been laid off or absent due to sickness or accident not covered by the Workmen’s Compensation act will lose ail seniority and his job will be terminated when the period of absence reaches:
1.	LESS THAN 1 YEAR SENIORITY
Tire length of time he worked for the Company. His seniority will not accumulate during his absence. This will apply for employees with less than a year of accumulated seniority.
2.	LESS THAN 5 YEARS' SENIORITY
12 months for employees with less than 5 years’ seniority.
3.	MORE THAN S YEARS/ACCIDENT OR SICKNESS
In a case of sickness or accident not covered by Workmen's Compensation Act, employees with 5 years’ of seniority or more will keep his seniority for a period of 24 months. This period may be extended by mutual agreement.
EXTENDED ABSENCE
i t .09©) If an employee is absent
without	permission	and	without
reasonable	excuse for	a	period of five
(S) consecutive working days, he will lose all seniority and Ms job.
HABITUAL ABSENCE
11,09f)	If an employee	is absent
without	permission	and	without
reasonable excuse for one (1) or more, but less than five (5) working dags on three (3) separate occasions within a six (6) month period, providing the employee has been warned and reprimanded by the Company, copy of the primand to be forwarded to the Union Plant Committee, with regard to his unauthorized absence.
NOTICE Of CHANGE OF ADDRESS
!!. i 0 ft stall be the duty of employees to give-their telephone number, their address and their licence plate number. The Company should be notified within a week of any changes. If an employee fails to submit to this obligation, the Company will not be responsible if this employee does not receive a notice which is addressed to him by the Company.
PERSONAL LEAVES OF ABSENCE
11.11
a) The Company may grant leave of absence to any employee for legitimate personal reasons.
b> Any leave of absence will be in writing and no such leave will affect any employee's seniority rights when used far the purpose granted.
c)	A written notice with the name of the employee as well as the length of Di$ absence will be given to the Union for any leave longer than three (3) weeks.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE/
WORKING ELSEWHERE
11.12	if an employee works elsewhere while on leave of absence, he will lose all seniority unless he has written permission from the Company to do such work.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE - FOR UNION MEMBERS
n.13 The Company agrees to grant Union members leaves without pay to attend Conventions, Educational courses or to perform work for the Union. Keeping in mind production requirements and unless agreed otherwise, four (4) members may so absent themselves but not more than one (1) per deparment. The Union shall notify the Company in writing two (2) weeks in advance. For seniority purposes, time so spent shall be counted as being worked.
RETIREMENT
11.14 The parties hereto agree that employees may be laid off as they become eligible for Federal Old Age Pension, however, this shall not prevent any employees from requesting an extension that will be studied by the parties who may or may not agree on such extension.
DISCRIMINATION
11.15 The parties hereto agree that there shall be no discrimination against anyone for reasons of race, colour, religion or creed, or political affiliation; for the purpose of hiring, promoting, transfer, etc.. However, this clause shall not be interpreted as superseding Article 19 of this Agreement which states: "All employees shall be and remain members in good standing with the “Union"".
ARTICLE 12
HIRING
12.01	Nothing in the present Agreement shall be deemed to limit the rights of the employer in hiring any new employe© providing all employees with seniority are working. Any new employee thus hired and after the lapse of +he trial period as provided herein shall be governed by all the terms and conditions of the present Agreement. Notwithstanding the above, consideration will be given to employees with Company seniority for new job openings, should such employees he laid off.
INTRODUCTION OF A HEW EMPLOYEE
12.02. Following the hiring of a new employee, mi when assigned to his work, the foreman will introduce this employee to the Union Steward in that department within a week if possible, A copy of the Collective Agreement will be given to Mm after his probation period.
ARTICLE 13
PROVISIONS FOR THE SAFETY OF THE EMPLOYEES
13.01	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment. Heating,
ventilation and wash room facilities stall conform to all legal requirements. The Union executive and grievance committee stall have the right to make recommendations in respect to such matters to the 'Employer.
COMPANY RULES
13.02	The employees will observe the rules that the Company may enact from time to time.
CLEANLINESS
13.03	Each employe must clean ami keep neat Ms or ter own place of work.
PREVENTION Of ACCIDENTS
13.04a) The union am! the employees will lend their support and will collaborate with the efforts displayed by the Company in the field of prevention of accidents.
13.04b) In . accordance with the provincial lav, the Company ami the Union agree to form a Committee of Safety ami Health in order to discuss any questions relative to security and health of the salaried employees it wort This Committee is made up of two (2) members named by the Union and two (2) members named by the Company. This Committee meets during working hours without a loss of salary. If* minutes of these meetings are kept in order to control the efficiency of this Committee.
ACCIDENT/FIRST AID
13.05	In the case of an accident to a salaried employee at work, the Company will provide first aid required inasmuch as possible as well as the transport to the hospital, if necessary. However, if the Company asks an employe® to transport an injured employee to the hospital or to the doctor's office, the transportation expenses will be paid by the Company.
ACCIDENT/MEDICAL REPORT
13.06	If the employee is retained at the hospital or if he is sent ham by the doctor who is treating him, the employe® must submit a medical attestation upon his return to work signed by the doctor testifying to his recommendations, specifying the date and the hour the employee left the hospital or his office.
ACCIDENT/RETURN TO SHIFT
13 07a) if a salaried employee is hurt at work and must be assent 'rom work in order to receive treatment, he will be paid a maximum of two hours on the condition that he returns immediately after treatment and finishes his work on his regular shift.
13.0?b) The employee should submit to his foreman upon his return to work a medical attestation signed by the doctor testifying to his recommendation and specifying the date and the hour when the employee left the hospital or his office.
BLUE CROSS
13.08a) The Company agrees to accept the Blue Cross and Mutual life Insurance Company benefits for the employees covered under the Collective Labour Agreement. The schedule of benefits is as follows:
Hospitalization: Semi-private Major medical $25.00 deductible Co-Insurance; 80% (See details in Master Policy)
Life insurance; $5,000.00 Double for accidental death Week indemnity: 66-2/3% of salary .Maximum indemnity: $231.00 per week
ft) In the event that Federal or Provincial medicare legislation is enacted, it is agreed by the parties to renegotiate the presently existing Group insurance Coverage.
c) The Company agrees to maintain its contributions towards the present Group Insurance and Hospitalization Plans on the present basis of 50% cost sharing between Company and employees. Should there be rate increases or decreases riurim Jhe Jif& . at This. contract.,..
adj ustmerits will be made to maintain the
cost sharing on a 50-50 basis.
ARTICLE 14
STRIKE AND LOCK-OUTS
14.01	There; stall be no strike or lockout during tbs life of this Agreement. All disputes stall be settled according to the established Grievance Procedure, to employee, whether a Union member or not,, stall cause or take part in a strike, slowdown of production, stoppage of work or picketing. Should an employee fte so, he shall be deemed to. have broken his agreement and will be dismissed by the Company anti any such employee will lose by any such act all privileges of reinstatement If there is a strike or a stoppage of work, the Company will not pay the employees who will not or cannot work. However, an employee who .alleges that he did not cause or take part in a strike, slowdown of production, stoppage of work or picketing, may have recourse to the greivance procedure.
ARTICLE 15
ABSENTEEISM AND LATENESS FOR WORK FAILING TO PUNCH
15.01a) Employees ere to punch their own time cards on entering and leaving work. An employee who fails to punch in or out must have his card signed by his foreman before it will be accepted by the payroll office. Notwithstanding the foreman's signature, failure to punch in or out will automatically result in the loss of fifteen (15) minutes pay. The stave is .not applicable in the event that failure to punch was due to the malfunction! ng of Company equi pment.
PUNCHING LATE
IS.Otb) An employee punching in late three (3) minutes or more or punching out three (3) minutes before the
specified time shall be penalized by losing fifteen (SB) minutes pay.
HABITUALLY LATE
15.01c) An employee regularly lata at work may be suspended or dismissed by five Company. Anyone late fifteen (15) minutes or more without reasonable excuses acceptable to the parties herein for more than three (3) times in six (6) months shell be known as a regularly late worker.
ARTICLE 16
PUNCTUALITY
16.01	All employees shell commence work or be at their machines at the designated time of their respective shifts and shall net leave work or their rrwfrfnes until the termination of their respective shifts.
WASH PERIOD
16.02	The Company will allocate a period of five (5) minutes at the end of
each shift Irt order to allow employees of each department to wash before leaving work. in the event that employees ars on continuous operations, they will replace each other.
BREAKS
16.03 All employees shall have the benefit of the following rest periods:
a) SHIFTS WITH MORE THAN B HOURS
OF WORK
™ 2 10 minute breaks
h) SHIFTS WITH 8 HOURS OF WORK OR
LESS
** 1 ~ 10 minute break
c) FOR EMPLOYEES RUNNING CONTINUOUS'MACHINES
Shall have the benefit of the appropriate rest periods (listed above) at a time agreed with their foreman.
They most replace each otter during their rest periods.
Personal reprimand by the foremen in the presence of the Union Steward. This reprimand should be signified in writing to both the employee end the Union.
2nd Written Warning
Suspension from work without pay for a period of one (!) to three (3) days in the cm of a second written warning,
provided such a second offence occurs within a period of twelve (12) months from the date of the first written offense, otherwise for the purpose of this article, such second offence should ha deemed to be a ft rat offence.
3rd Written Warning
Dismissal from the employ of the company for a third written offence, provided such written offence occurs within st pried of twelve (12) months from the fete of the first written offence, otherwise for purposes of this article, such third offence shell be deemed to tea second offeree®.
WARH1NG/ACKWJWLEDGEMEMT OF
RECEIPT
t?.01c) The representative of the Union of the department concerned, or if he is mt available, a member of the executive committee is required to sign a written warning, but only as an
acknowledgement of receipt.
MAJOR 0FFEMCE3
17.G1d) In the case of a serious offence, such as those specifically mentioned in Article 20.01c) which seriously affects the maintenance of discipline amongst the employees, the Company may dispense vith the procedures outlined in
17.01	h) end the employees be dealt with summarily, including dismissal.
ARTICLE 18
ARTICLE 17
DISC!PL! NE/6ENERAL PRINCIPLE
17.01#) To effect the maintenance of
discipline and pod order, the Company and the Union agree upon the adoption of disciplinary measures having the aim of increasing production and good relations in the mill.
DiSCiPLJNE/HINOR OFFENCES
i 7.01b) The Company shall insist that its representatives, whether its manager, foreman, etc. shall apply disciplinary measures with good judgement depending on circumstances, and in accordance with the following procedures for all breaches of discipline, (other than those specifically mentioned in Article 20.01c) which it is agreed may merit summary dismissal.
Without restricting the generality of the foregoing, examples of breaches of disciplineare:
1)	If an employee fails to advise his foreman or a Company representative at least 15 minutes (or 60 minutes)before the beginning of his shift (depending on the shift which he is working) in accordance with Article 5.14.
2)	Habitually in one department or another without the permission of the foremen of these departments.
Prior to the first written warning, a personal verbal reprimand should be given by the foreman with or without the Union Steward being present. Although the Company will encourage its supervisory staff to give such a personal verbal reprimand prior to a written warning, it will not be necessary to give such a verbal reprimand prior to a written warning in every case.
1st Written Warning
BULLfriN BOARD
18.01	The Company agrees to give the Union the privilege of using bulletin
boards which will be placed in convenient locations agreed to by the parties, as long as the use of these bulletin boards will be limited only to the posting of notices signed by the President or another authorized Union officer.
The following types of notices may be
posted:
1)	Union election notices;
2)	Results of Union elections or Union
nominations;
3)	Notices of Union meet!ngs or similar Union activities;
4)	Notices of social and recreational Union functions,
5)	Other notices similar in nature to the ones mentioned in this paragraph, pertaining to the Canadian Labour Council.
The Union agrees that no other brochure, notice or other publication will be posted or distributed on Company premises without approval of the Management.
ARTICLE 19
UNION SHOP
19.01	As a condition of employment, the employer is in agreement with the following:
1)	All new employees shall be and remain members in pod standing of the
Union.
2)	All new employees stall be required to join the Union after one (1) full week of employment from Monday to Friday.
3)	The Company agrees that the regular weekly dues and any assessments owed by members of the Union stall be deducted from the pay of each employee who in writing authorizes the Company to do so; such deduction to be made of each weekly pay for the duration of this Agreement.
The Company undertakes to make deductions, provided it is permitted to do so under the laws of the Province of Quebec, without incurring any liability, penalty or sanction. The total amount thus collected by the Company stall be remitted to the Treasurer of United Textile Workers of America at thei r Head Office in the City Of Montreal along with a list of the names of the employees from whose pay dues were deducted, within the 30 days following the end of the month during which the deductions were made. The Company stall also advise the Union 1 n writing of the names of the employees who have revoked their 'orders for check-off of Union dues not later than ten (1Q) day® after tta revocation takes effect
4)	Union dues will be shown on each employee's TP™ 4.
ARTICLE 20
RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
20.01a) The Union recognizes the right of the Company to manage this plant and to direct the working forces., Including the right to hire, promote, transfer, suspend ^discipline and discharge any employee for just causes.
20.01b) In the interest of efficient operation of this plant, the Onion agrees that the Company may at time and without other notice, change the hours of work, determine or change work assignments and select the materials to H handled, processed or manufactured. Any such action of the Company 'which in the opinion of the Union results in individual hardship or injustice shall be considered s discussable grievance. All major changes shell be posted in the department involved one (1) week before they are put into effect.
MAJBR OFFENCES
20.01c) The Company shall he entitled to dismiss any employee who commits
serious brushes of discipline, such as:
!) brings or consumes alcoholic Pevcrwp:’. on the Company's property, or
ath.f? illcjal substances.
2)	destroys or damages or steels any material, moveable or immoveable belonging to the Employer.
3)	smokes in prohibited or dangerous
places.
4)	endangers Ms own life or that of a fe'IV-' enrjeyee.
5} U ire down or defaces any notice, bu'ifitins or other documents posted on th» i 'il SMI ft boards of the Employer or of
tfw Union.
6) knowingly and maliciously interferes with «mj fellow employees and tteretiy prevents the latter from doing
his work or giving his fall share of production.
7) is habitually late at his work.
8} is negligent, careless, uneconomical or wasteful in the handling of merchandise in fils wort
9)	sleeps at his job.
10)	punching in or out on a card other
than his own.
11)	punching in and leaving the
premises of the Com png without express permission of his foreman.
12)	insubordination.
13)	disorderlycanduct.
14)	fighting in the plant.
15)	If any employee reports to work i n m intoxicated condition, or under the influence of drugs in such a way that this mag present a danger to his own safety or that of this fellow employees, or the property belonging to employees or the Company, if there is no foreman of the department present, the Lead Hand has the right to send the employee back horr?.
t6) if an employee falsifies production reports and other documents belonging to
the Company
Depending on the circumstances, the Company eta accord disciplinary measures less severe than firing.
TECHNICAL CHAMBE
2Q.01d) in case of technical changes or if any question or dispute arises as to the feasibility of the change or task, the
number of employees requires, or the suitability of new rates, a trial period of sixty (60) working days will be instituted in order to give a fair trial to the said new wage rate and/or assignment During this period, the employee will be paid his hourly average earnings of the four (4) weeks preceding the change, or the rates by Company pertaining to the new task and/or assignment, whichever is higher !f following the trial period there is no agreement between the parties, the Union, within twelve (12) working days followi ng the end of the trial period, may take the question up according to the Grievance Procedure. If no grievance is instituted within the delay, the wage rates or tasks enforced during the trial period shall bo deemed final and fully accepted by both parties. After a grievance is instituted the trial period shall remain in force until the final decision on the grievance has been granted.
20.01	e) The Company will inform the Union in writing of important technical changes of the installation of new machinery, and of the addition of a machine resulting in a different workload in all esses where such changes can influence the hourly rate.
PRODUCTIVITY
20.010 The parties recognize the competitive position of the‘Company in this Province and Canada. The employees and ifte Onion agree to co-operate as fully m possible with the Company to enable it to run the Milt as efficiently and snewfily as possible in all departments Such co-operation shall be in keeping the spirit and intent of the Agreement as provided under Article 20, section (A-8) dealing with the reservation or management rights.
SYMPATHY PAY
21.01	The company agrees to compensate an employees for lost salary up to a maximum of 4 dap as specified In below in the event of death in the immediate family.
Spouse	4 dap
Children	4 days
father	4 days
Mother	4 days
Fatter In law 4dap Mother In Law 4days Brother	4 dap
Sister	4 clays
Also two dap will be compensated upon the death of a brother in law , a sister in law or grandparents on the condition that an employee attends the funeral.
For clarification, it is understood that the compensation for lost salary will be paid starti ng from the day of death up to a maxi mum of 4 (or 2) depending on the situation consecutive calender dap.
Definition of spouse for bereavement pay;
A)	husband and wife and live together,-or
B)	vho live together as husband and wife
and:
i)	have lived together for at least three years, or at least one year, if they have had a baby from this union; and
ii)	Publicly represent themselves as hasband and wife.
:uojj**U3	®«il <»«d «y
c
--T'
O
ARTICLE 22
of one union
omplot^ will
■iSMg
m £
S-1.I
(Ifl
wilt
i
B
d
8
Syj
£s
squally in the th* Labour Aai
o* m
yf
x
©■>

ni;i!
Iti5*’
«iwq im m m mum • WW* imm* Z w* tiuqi m <01
ARTICLE 28 CORRESPONDENCE
25.0! fjeeopt where otherwise provided, official comaniifarthNis In the torn! of corraapndine® twtween tto Company and til Union stall be given by prepaid rogiatersd mil m follows:
To tto Company:
The Manager of tto Company,
Huntington m\$ u^m
p.n. m% 520
H«ntfngdiMi,Qifslac
J0SIN0
To the Union:
United Textile Worker® of America 437? tfotm-Dstw Street West, teem & Montreal *0uetoc HC It9
Copy tO:
Tie Secretory Local 101
United Textile Workers of America
Any communication given under tMa Agreement M to deemed given and received as of tto business day following tto tote of mailing.
ARTICLE 26
DURATION
The current coliedive agreement will to inaffcdfor 3 pinatartiny the Id of May 1986, until April 30th 1989.
Wary ivtmm will to m follows.
$0.26 an hour effective May ! 1986. 10.27 an tour sffodive May t f 987 $0 JO m tour sIMSv® May I 1988.
in aHitwfi on H»y I 1988 ttere will •witter Iwretat. Tte inerm* will te
tte <ttffer«nce tetvwm tte £&w8im
its payroll and the
Hwtiifftett If11$ LW Leo ltefEsa» HMsgte
UKUWUIOMUI
<3 6	/ a? $ 4>
Sctw-duW "A"
rTT_2c$-4«y AtrinMur _ it I	.	_______
i ii j»y?lu£R ss la T£gm,«sas.._.._
{'14 jdiif<fw»ite»
IST^i&rfer
mitt Tttolara an 8«rr»...
[TTiAMaQfoirai	_________
i S8 Ii»««sr <t» Twrtar* _________
flj^iffPceioyaF ......................
fit i'Sa*r«vi4~ toltiaKawctdftorgftssur.
rUlPmarfe grwfeftg	_______
\2* JOmt 4*&k&SmteL~-~
_ Ftateatir & to Chats*_,___
M__ jrew«*t*Br. ...............
S7 djpiratow <to Siiqhsfr____
*® hawctour_______ „ .........
^jS^atour'Si btfa*r»S*6ffl>$*
St KtotrsUor & Uteawws _______
hoop ftmmm_______
___	______ t aOfttWH
'1''."'-....~~1cSroisaFwi#-i«r..
-----	” jkMdhMd fa traMMHraS floater
...~... ~ "ywSKi i-te Oprafor
..M**l.------m&L
„ fji.w,! ...igjg-f
$B.«31	S?:!Sj
}	$a.9i;
'	$8,71
It |W»8wril________________ .
fig	toinwiw s* d* tariw
~” ~ __________
i S3 jiSaaraitMr 4‘ass«’*,m« egntrffugf
sj~]S»rMwrd:«gagy<^g* #JgaljgB;.
' STTOpfratour *TPr«««* ttdfto-sto^y
Hj».i_____jmlJ
*m{_______msL
■ “Ijfit s fg,?t
*....." :1I
.74
SeSwM* "A"
Sr	*	fc „
nsT^^THsi igg? „
"wi IgtowtrHS^g^g—________j-j——rir^Tr«Si5^
tgTiS2^i«y d-E«t«>»»jw <s» tbai««w
«rtop<r^ir dfUr^agjaia^Sa---.---—~---------~
^**9331_________—--------•——
cypiS\im	.....—.,..---..— ...———“■
reis»f8is^*t,s*$ti^..-~-.-..—~~—-—----------
rSniSi&aHty *t swtwtgsaww^____
l~Hl£SSl &.? &jr*te*£ S^te-iSL...—-——--------
rwr............—————---------------------—
rSTUia m de mam OWMBL .------------—-—
’ 49 j'ft'ate' diWafeayy...
mlfmmSSk.——-ktf--
' aty^gr la Uf» & riwkgf*
____, *»* ______
81 liystwr , ,	....
'iSl jtU^T«ni«r ...,„,
‘OT*fc5feraiwr l"fe Suvt TwrngjftL^
I a& Ate ^irStewBr. .
AW#	..-
..
A4SS
_ Ji&W&ivmmimZZZI
'	lehsf pjgttjp tt HtMnWfrS--•— -  ——
\ rSTftteafitete t»r# Clw»_.,.„„...........—
..-......
^ ctIi5w5h«i*?>>g*CM«t.	.—
Turahlor - Srtwwter..........
jga?. Opmrter ^ W*ter cf Sm*H iMpiwre

- M le.Wl
jgiiO
“t
K

78
AW# etarobWr
71
AMtO«wr«>*
Hl^yls^r	. . .............
H^gSr^QMtteiafi #1 R<i^«1jwrj*g«sggL.
SHasuasLMam
JpMKSaSSsi
“1f^——
~ frgf&irfran* !fr*r«ter
"VyfcKW ,	___________
~5MfMM U# Qwrstor fl&to
' &g£»S*Cf.
Sfa»®>wOp*r*ly.
it^bferOwratsr- ....„,.,
' |h«W- --T^wfr-are...
iO«n*rri H*1p .,_,..—
hmstm iwd 3»aw« j .Htfe
Trtiatow- awde«a>rat.Htk
jySSaaioyggwmd-CTas* flrtfliMBBgL.
^ah«fo£Jj^±£i*?f.____________
-------------
---.-------—
jS&sosUi^.-
prwnUr.
.. i§J4|...
p7i 4.}.. T <ftS*L.


S^wrwMc* Carpwrtw-----
*$J7
:Mml-
u ge
Iojbb
JB”
^.S1
M5t
JSii
la^s
.^.. 11 u
^.6S
t9.95
J8S_*S4£
.iBii. „.jmi J858L
' ' #9.1 S
$13.25
A
Class# »t MS* PtaiSisr.
Atm, m x -nsics* a w#an
Triogiwrs
ISMSiJ...
jPrsmW MfeaBteSae s'Ah-.itr #1 Mtgastefar <kFf! fejaTtfSwfa* »t HSrapfefoa as Hactrit*
Mfcafttefw d'Atolar *i Msgagfefer -&» f8 .vjfe^-ri»;;-i d# Htdtiw
AT^*i C4 tRjCOTAFOI. Mk Atatitec____________
ijg&^-mr m ftwrt*# *t *i<i#
9?
*9
tfsisSS'.A^L
'Ajh» 4-«g?rs?
Q»f tflSifrijt «t Htoajaitft
Trteot«rs (
ATSLiER &£ TRtCQT A C1APST Chtf Haute* *M «r MtuAfetea Trfe*t**rs (*u**s)
Cf»fdiquto* *t Mfa»ifi*tf#n
Attc&nfc-al
Hagssinter # Fii
Sehwfirt* "A1
wtrrrws
Knitters Qyttrsl Hsfesr
MttfMwte/SewwKflaw and PluMb«r B»te#r
i®s«
Hwtwefe mi 'i»e, Steds His
Isaiaad mi Ftear. Ii#dmfc> feajt Hsifewfc mt 'ter, Stedfemift
IjfSfeSSS,
SPaggO-fjEESSJ WijTTBS .>.ss$k*Mft
**«»«>» tlwnfor mi B*ls*r fay 8$eetaai>,________
3S2?EiM®MiL iU*flnpd *s£ Hx&ante Knitters
latch wasu- mmm Laadhad and First Hwhiste
Knitters
tsafeaad mi Maohanfe Qw»ral Hatear Yarn Stockman