COLLECTIVE
Between:
COATS PATONS
And
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING TEXTILE WORKERS UNION AFL-CIO, CLC LOCAL 836
EFFECTIVE DATES MAY 1, 1994
to
JUNE 30, 1997
TABLE OF CONTENTS COATS PATONS
ARTICLE 1 -PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE 2	- BARGAINING AGENCY
ARTICLE 3 -MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
ARTICLE 4 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
ARTICLE 5	- STEWARDS .	.	.
ARTICLE 6 -GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
ARTICLE 7	- ARBITRATION .	.
ARTICLE 8	- WAGES.................
ARTICLE 9 -TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE . .
ARTICLE 10- HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, WAITING TIME, REPORTING TIME, REST PERIODS & SHIFT PREMIUMS .	.	.	.	.
SCHEDULE "B"
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, WAITING TIME, REPORTING TIME, REST PERIODS & SHIFT PREMIUMS .	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.
ARTICLE 11	- HOLIDAYS .	.	.
ARTICLE 12	- VACATION WITH PAY .	.
ARTICLE 13	- SENIORITY.................
ARTICLE 14	- LEAVE OF ABSENCE .	.	.	,	.
1
1
3
3
6
9
11
12
15
16
17
27
31
39
ARTICLE 15	- STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS .	.	40
ARTICLE 16 - NO DISCRIMINATION OR INTIMIDATION . 41 ARTICLE 17 - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES AND
	MAINTENANCE OR MEMBERSHIP . . .		42
ARTICLE	18	- BULLETIN BOARDS .	43
ARTICLE	19	- WELFARE & SAFETY . .	43
ARTICLE	20 -	DURATION OF AGREEMENT . . .	49
SCHEDULE	“A'		
TIME	RATED	CLASSIFICATIONS . .	51
	DRAWING/SPINNING DEPARTMENTS		. 51
TWISTING/REELING DEPARTMENT ... 52 DYEHOUSE DEPARTMENT ....	53
FINISHING DEPARTMENT ....	54
ROSELAWN AVENUE BULK PACK/RECEIVING . 57
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT................58
SHADE CARD DEPARTMENT................59
IRON STREET DISTRIBUTION CENTRE .... 60 MAINTENANCE ........................ 62
This Agreement entered into as of the 1st day of May 1994
BETWEEN
COATS PATONS,1001Roselawn Ave., Toronto, hereinafter referred to as “The Company” of the first part
AND
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING &TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, Local 836, hereinafter referred to as the "Union11 of the second part.
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to provide means for operation of the plant in a manner which will further in all possible ways, the welfare and the safety of employees, betterment and quality of the product, economy of manufacture and the quantity of output all to the mutual interest and advantage of the Employees and the Company. Furthermore it is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement shall promote and improve the relationships between the Company and the Employees and shall establish an understanding covering hours of work, rates of pay, and conditions of employment.
Where the masculine pronoun is used in this Agreement it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context so applies.
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING AGENCY
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive Collective Bargaining Agency with respect to all matters properly arising under this Agreement for all its employees in or about its mill
tL
or premises in The Metropolitan Toronto, or surrounding areas, save and except:
Supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors, persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four hours per week. Stationary Engineers, regularly employed as such for more than twenty-four hours per week, Office Staff and Homeknitters.
For the purpose of negotiating, the Company agrees to the recognition of a committee of not more than 5 (five) employees having at least 1 (one) year of seniority, together with a representative of the National Organization of the Union. The Union agrees that no more than 2 (two) members of the Committee will be representatives of one occupational group.
2.02	Supervisors and employees in the exempt classifications will
not normally do the work of their regular employees except for purpose of instruction, emergencies or when regular employees are not available.
2.03	The wages of the Negotiating Committee will be maintained.
2.04	The Company continues to recognize a Union/Management Executive Committee which will meet as necessary to discuss problems that may arise pertaining to this Collective
Agreement.
The Committee will consist of no more than 5 (five) members of the Union Executive Committee, having at least 1 (one) year of seniority, and no more than 5 (five) persons representing the Company. The Union agrees that no more than 2 (two) members will be representatives of 1 (one) occupational group.
3
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the
Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency:
(b)	Hire, lay-off, discharge, classify, direct, transfer, promote, demote and suspend or otherwise discipline employees, subject to the provisions of this Agreement and employees and/or Union's right to grieve and:
(c)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing to determine the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacture, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, process of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced, the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations and all other matters concerning the operation of the Company's business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Agreement.
The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
4.01	The Company reserves the right to discharge an employee for any just cause, including, but not being restricted to the
4
following reasons.
Incompetency, insubordination, absence without leave, smoking in prohibited areas, drunkenness, drinking intoxicating liquors while on duty, taking or being under the influence of illegal drugs while on duty, endangering his own safety or the safety of a fellow employee, stealing or otherwise removing any property from the premises illegally.
A “Notice of Discharge” shall be given to the employee in writing and one copy will be made available to the Union Steward concerned. The Company however, in cases where the offence does not warrant immediate release, will first issue a “Notice of Warning’". This notice will also be in writing and a copy will be given to the Union Steward concerned.
4.02	The Union will not question the non confirmation or dismissal of any probationary employee, nor shall such non confirmation or dismissal be the subject of a grievance. However, if the dismissed employee has worked for a period of at least 4 (four) complete weeks, the Company agrees to meet with the probationary employee and a representative of the Union.
4.03	A claim by a permanent employee who has allegedly been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Personnel Department of the Company within 5 (five) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company, and steps 1 and 2 of Article 6, Grievance Procedure will be omitted in such cases.
5
4.04
4.05
4.06
4.07
Such special grievance may be settled under the Grievance Procedure by:
(a)	Confirming the Management's action in dismissing the
permanent employee.
(b)	Re-instating the employee with full compensation for time lost.
(c)	Or by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
A disciplined employee, on request, shall have the right of access of his Union before leaving the plant.
Should an employee who is a member of the bargaining unit be absent from work due to sickness or injury that is non work-related, the Company will ensure that seniority will be maintained for a period equal to his seniority up to a maximum of 15 (fifteen) months. However, the employee must supply the Company with regular medical progress reports indicating:
(a) that the employee will be able to return to his regular job, and:
<b) expected return to work date.
If the employee fails to provide the Company with the above data, a fetter of termination may be issued in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
(a)	Records of disciplinary action for disciplinary action for lateness and/or absenteeism only, will not be used against an employee, provided 9 (nine) months has
elapsed since the last verbal or written warning is
issued.
(b) Records of disciplinary action for:
(i)	Suspensions
3 (three) years have lapsed since the last disciplinary action was formally recorded.
(ii) Verbal^and Written Warnings:
2 (two) years have lapsed since the last disciplinary action was formally recorded.
ARTICLE 5 - STEWARDS
5.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select stewards in accordance with the following representation based as nearly as possible on the numerical size of each department and to further appoint or otherwise select from amongst the stewards one who will act as, and perform the functions of a Chief Steward.
DEPARTMENT OR SECTION	NUMBER OF STEWARDS
Spinning, Drawing, keeling and Twisting Departments	2
Dyehouse Department	1
Finishing Department, Winding, Yarn Printing, Brushing, Balling, Pull Skein and Steaming Sections	1
7
DEPARTMENT OR SECTION	NUMBER OF STEWARDS
Finishing Department, Accumulators, Packing, Overprinting, General (Jobbers, Clerical, Material Handlers) Sections	1
Finishing Department, Sewings and Crafts, Roselawn Avenue Bulk Pack/Receiving/Section	1
Inspection and Shade Cards Departments	1
Iron Street Distribution Centre	1
Maintenance Department (Maintenance General Services, Machinery Maintenance and Carpenters)	1
All Departments (Chief Steward)	1
5.02	An employee will not be eligible to serve as a steward unless he has had 1 (one) or more years' continuous service with the Company. Furthermore, a steward must be an employee in the department or occupational group he represents. The Union undertakes to notify the Company in writing of the names of the stewards and the department or sections each represents and of any changes in the personnel of the steward which may be made from time to time before the Company shall be required to recognize them.
5.03	Stewards shall be free to discharge their duties without fear that their relations with the Company may be affected in any way. Moreover, the Company agrees to compensate stewards for all time spent in the servicing of grievances, when they would otherwise be at work, provided they strictly adhere to the following requirements:
8
(1)	Will not absent themselves from their regular work unreasonably in order to deal with the grievances of employees.
(2)	Will not enter a department where a grievance has been reported without informing the supervisor of that department of their presence and the person they wish to consult.
(3)	Will not absent themselves from their regular work without first obtaining permission of their supervisor.
Likewise when resuming their regular work will report to their supervisor and if requested advise which department they have visited. Permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Steward shall be free to solicit new members on the Company's premises provided such solicitation does not take place during working hours.
5.04	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint or
otherwise select a Grievance Committee. An employee will not be eligible to serve as a member of the Grievance Committee unless he has had 1 (one) or more years' continuous service with the Company. Members shall be allowed time off when it is found necessary to meet with the Management and will be compensated for time so spent when they would otherwise be at work. However, not more than 3 (three) members of the Grievance Committee will meet with Management at any one time. The Union agrees that no more than 1 (two) members will be representatives of 1 (one) occupational group.
9
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	A grievance is defined as a difference between the Company and the Union or an employee as to the interpretation of, or application of, or compliance with the terms and conditions of this Collective Agreement. No grievance shall be considered:
(a)	Where the circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated more than 7 (seven) working days before filing of the grievance.
(b)	Unless the employee or group of employees has given their immediate supervisor a reasonable opportunity of adjusting same.
STEP NO. 1:
An employee having a grievance shall first submit it orally or in writing to his supervisor and shall be accompanied by his union steward. The supervisor shall deal with the grievance and deliver his answer orally or in writing to the grievor within 2 (two) working days after receipt of the grievance.
STEP NO. 2:
If the decision of the supervisor is not satisfactory it may be appealed in writing to the manager concerned, or other person designated by the Company, by the steward within 2 (two) working days following the decision of the supervisor. The manager will deal with the grievance and render his decision in writing to the grievor within 2 (two) working days following the day upon which he received the grievance.
STEP NO. 3
10
If the decision of the manager is not satisfactory, the grievance may be taken up within 7 (seven) full working days at a meeting between the Grievance Committee and the Company's Human Resources Manager. Either party may request the presence of the grievor at this meeting.
Nothing stated in the foregoing shall preclude the right of the Union to have a permanent representative of the National Organization present or the Company from having its own special representative present at the negotiations between the Human Resources Manager and the Grievance Committee or between the President of the Company or any other person or persons designated by him and the Grievance Committee.
The Human Resources Manager shall give his written decision not later than 10 (ten) working days following the date on which the Step No. 3 meeting was held.
If the decision of the Human Resources Manager is not acceptable to the grievor, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration as provided in Article 7. If notice to proceed to arbitration is not received within 10 (ten) working days following the date of the Human Resources Manager’s decision, the grievance will be considered to have been settled or abandoned.
In the case of a permanent employee who feels that he has been unjustly discharged, Article 4.03 of the Collective Agreement shall apply.
6.02	Any difference arising directly between the Union and the Company relating to violations, interpretations and applications of the Agreement shall be processed under the provisions of this Article and shall be initiated at Step. No. 3.
11
6.03	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to grieve on behatf of individual employees.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
7.01	When either party requests that any matter be submitted to arbitration as hereinafter provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement and at the same time nominate an arbitrator. Within 5 (five) working days thereafter, the other party shall nominate an arbitrator. The two arbitrators so nominated shall meet immediately and if within 3 (three) working days they fail to settle the grievance, they shall attempt to select by agreement a third person to be a member and Chairman of the Arbitration Board, tf they are unable to agree upon such a Chairman within a further period of two working days, they may then request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario to assist them in selecting a Chairman, provided that the Chairman shall be selected from other than the Civil Service and shall be chosen having regard to his impartiality, his qualifications in interpreting Collective Bargaining Agreements and his familiarity with Industrial Relations.
In determining any grievance arising out of discharge or other discipline, the Arbitration Board may dispose of the claim by affirming the Company's action and dismissing the grievance or by setting aside the disciplinary action involved and restoring the grievor to his former position with or without compensation or in such other manner as may in the opinion of the Arbitration Board be justified.
No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
12
No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any
decision inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the Chairman of such Board will be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of the arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the
expense, if any, of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE 8 - WAGES
8.01	The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept during the life of this Agreement, the basic time work rates and piece-work rates in effect during the week ending May 7th, 1994 subject to the changes and adjustments which are to become effective on the date specified in 8.02. Piece-work rates, as adjusted, will be posted in departments paid on a piece-work basis and the schedule of time rated classifications shown on Schedule “A” will be attached to and form part of this Agreement.
8.02	EFFECTIVE MAY 1,1994:
No wage increase
13
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 1995:
(a)	All time work rates will be increased by 0.25 cents per
hour.
(b)	All piece work rates will be increased by 0.25 cents per hour.
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 1996:
(a)	All time work rates will be increased by 0.25 cents per hour.
(b)	All piece work rates will be increased by 0.25 cents per hour.
(c)	The Company will retain a Group Bonus for the Dyehouse employees, skilled Maintenance, Spinning and Drawing employees with details to be changed or adjusted when necessary by the Company.
8.03	Nothing stated in 8.01 shall be deemed to deprive the Company of its right to adjust the time rates of individual employees within the limits of the time work rates contained in Schedule “A” nor of applying at anytime a scale of piece work, incentive or bonus rates such as may be mutually satisfactory to the Company and the Union.
8.04	(a) Since employment is dependent upon the demand for
the Company’s products, the parties hereto recognize the importance of attaining and maintaining maximum employee efficiency and productivity and of continual progress in the development of improved manufacturing methods to meet customer requirements on a competitive basis.
14
(b) It is recognized and agreed that it is the right of the Company to institute changes in tasks, work assignments or incentive rates, and the following
procedure shall apply:
(I) The Company shall first inform the Union of the fact that a major change is to be made and of the approximate date thereof. The parties shall meet and, except in case of emergencies, discuss the proposal at least 2 (two) weeks before the date fixed for the institution of such change. The Company will furnish all information which is necessary for a complete understanding of the proposed change.
(II) If there is any question as to the equity of the change in tasks, work assignments, or new incentive rates, a trial period not exceeding 30 (thirty) days shall be instituted in order to give fair trial to such tasks, work assignments or incentive rates. If, following the trial period, there is no agreement between the parties, the Union, within 15 (fifteen) days following the end of the trial period, may present a written statement of its grievances. A further 15 (fifteen) days will be allowed for a satisfactory adjustment to be made by Negotiations between the two parties. If agreement is not reached, the Company accepts that the Union will be permitted to study the operation in question by their qualified Industrial Engineer. Should there still be no satisfactory adjustment agreeable to the two parties, the matter may be submitted by either party to arbitration for a final and binding decision.
15
(Mi) No worker shall receive assistance during the trial period which he would not normally receive.
(iv) During the trial period referred to in (ii), the employee shall be paid on the basis of his average earnings, provided that any increase in the said rates arising by mutual agreement between the parties out of the negotiations referred to above, or resulting from the decision of the Arbitration Board, will be made retroactive to the date that the new rates were posted and became effective.
8.05	When an employee is temporarily assigned to another job for the convenience of the Company, he will receive the rate for the job to which he is transferred or the rate of the previously held job - whichever is higher.
ARTICLE 9 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
9.01 In the event of technological change, including the installation
of new mechanical electronic, or automated equipment that will affect the job status of any employee in the Bargaining Unit, the Company will:
(a)	As far in advance as possible before the installation of such equipment, meet with the Union Committee and provide the Committee with data regarding the proposed date of installation, number and classification of employees likely to be affected by it, and:
(b)	Provide adequate training facilities in the operation of such equipment, so that the senior displaced employees will have the opportunity to qualify for such
16
new jobs created by the installation of the equipment.
(c)	In the case of other. employees who may be displaced by the equipment and for whom no work is available in the department concerned, the Company will arrange transfers to other departments or occupations and will undertake to train such employees for a two-month period, if necessary, at the learning rate in effect for the department or occupation to which he has been transferred.
(d)	Failure on the part of the Company to offer employment as outlined in (c) will result in a displacement wage being paid to such employees. The displacement wage shall be an amount equivalent to one week's earnings for each full year of the employee's continuous service with the Company. However, failure on the part of the employee to accept employment in another department or occupation on the terms outlined in (c) relieves the Company of its obligation to pay a displacement wage.
9.02	In the event of dispute arising out of this provision, the matter shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
ARTICLE 10 - HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, WAITING TIME, REPORTING TIME, REST PERIODS & SHIFT PREMIUMS
10.01	Attached to and forming part of this Agreement is Schedule "B" which is a schedule of the hours of work, starting and quitting times, rest periods and shift premiums.
10.02	Overtime hours are those worked in excess of the standard day or weekly hours as listed in Schedule "B" and work
17
performed on a Saturday, Sunday or Statutory Holiday listed
herein.
SCHEDULE "B" HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, WAITING TIME, REPORTING TIME, REST PERIODS & SHIFT PREMIUMS________________________________________________
HOURS OF WORK: The standard working week shall consist of the
following :
FIRST SHIFT	40 hours per week - 8 hours daily Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.
SECOND SHIFT	40 hours per week - 8 hours daily Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.
THIRD SHIFT Drawing/Spinning, Twisting/Reeling and Finishing	33-3/4 hours per week - 6-3/4 hours per shift commencing Sunday night and ending the following Friday morning.
THIRD SHIFT Dyehouse and Maintenance	40 hours per week - 8 hours per shift commencing Sunday night and ending the following Friday morning; and except where three shift operations require otherwise, the morning starting times and the afternoon quitting times shall be as follows :
18
DEPARTMENT	HOURS OF WORK	LUNCH PERIOD
Drawing/Spinninq	7:00 am to 3:30 pm	1/2 hour
Twisting/Reeling	7:00 am to 3:30 pm	1/2 hour
Dyehouse	7:00 am to 3:30 pm	1/2 hour
Inspection	7:00 am to 3:30 pm	1/2 hour
Finishing	7:00 am to 3:30 pm	1/2 hour
*Machinery Maintenance	7.00 am to 3:30 pm	1/2 hour
*Maintenance - General Services	7:00 am to 3:30 pm	1/2 hour
Shade Card	8:00 am to 4:30 pm	1/2 hour
Iron Street Distribution Centre	8:00 am to 4:30 pm	1/2 hour
*Some employees in these departments may have different starting times than those stated above and these times will be deemed to be the normal starting hours for those involved.
SCHEDULE "B
19
Where departments, sections thereof or individual employees are required for three shift operations, the starting and quitting times will be as follows:
DEPARTMENT	HOURS OF WORK	LUNCH PERIOD
FIRST SHIFT	7:00 am to 3:30 pm	1/2 hour
SECOND SHIFT (excluding Dyehouse)	3:30 pm to 11:55 pm	1/2 hour
*SECOND SHIFT (Dyehouse & Maintenance excluding General)	3:00 pm to 11:30 pm	1/2 hour
THIRD SHIFT (Drawing/Spinning, Twisting/Reeling, Finishing)	11:45 pm to 7:00 am	1/2 hour
*THIRD SHIFT (Dyehouse, Maintenance excluding General)	11:00 pm to 7:30 am	1/2 hour
Third Shift:	Drawing/Spinning, Twisting/Reeling and Finishing
Department will be paid for a 7 (seven) hour shift and a 35 (thirty-five) hour week. While the above defines the normal hours of work it shall not be construed or interpreted as a guarantee by the Company of a specified number of hours of work per shift or shifts of work per week. It shall, moreover, be clearly understood, that notwithstanding the starting and quitting times mentioned above, any work performed before or after these times which is authorized by the Company and agreeable to the employees concerned shall not be considered overtime until the normal 8 (eight) hours have first been completed.
Cleaning will be done weekly by the department which employs two and three shift operations. Full 8 (eight) hour shifts will be allowed cleaning time as follows:
20
1
DEPARTMENT	SECTION	WEEKLY CLEANING
		PERIOD
Drawing/Spinning	All Sections	30 minutes
Twisting/Reeling	All Sections	30 minutes
Finishing	Winding	30 minutes
	Balling	25 minutes
	Bagging	15 minutes
I - - -	Packing	10 minutes
Cleaning duties will be carried out by full 8 (eight) hour shift according to publications which may be altered from time to time to accommodate everyone as fairly as possible.
The Third Shift will be given a 15 (fifteen) minute allowance per shift for general cleaning and house-keeping.
2.	OVERTIME:
Overtime will be on a voluntary basis but employees are expected to co-operate and perform overtime when asked to do so by the Company. Notice of overtime work will be given, if possible, 24 (twenty-four) hours prior to such work being performed, except in cases of emergency.
Employees who agree to work prescheduled overtime and who do not fulfil their commitment, without a reason acceptable to the Company, will not be considered when subsequent prescheduled overtime schedules are prepared, unless no qualified substitute can be found.
21
All authorized work performed by an employee in excess of 8 (eight) hours per shift and 40 (forty) hours per week shall be considered overtime and remunerated at time and one-half an employee’s regular hourly rate in the case of an hourly rated employee, and time and one-half an employee's average hourly earnings, excluding overtime premium, in the case of a piecerated employee.
Furthermore, authorized work performed on Saturday will be considered overtime and remunerated at time and one-half and any work performed on a Sunday, which has been specifically scheduled by the Company, will be remunerated at double time. However, where Sunday work is performed by an employee because, for personal reasons, he was unable to work on the Saturday, the overtime rate of time-and-one-hatf will apply.
Employees who are requested and work more than 3 (three) hours overtime in any working day will be entitled to a half-hour rest period. Employees will be paid for 15 (fifteen) minutes of this rest period at time-and-one-half. This applies only to those employees who actually take the rest period and punch their time card accordingly.
Employees who work overtime for three or more hours on a particular shift will be eligible for a $6.00 (six dollar) meal allowance if the request for such overtime is not received prior to the commencement of the shift.
When an employee is called in by the Company for overtime work he shall be guaranteed a minimum of 4 (four) hours work and be paid at the regular overtime rate of time-and-one-half or double-time for Sunday.
22
3.	WAITING TIME:
Where, due to breakdowns, power failure, lack of work or other unforeseen circumstances, production is temporarily interrupted, but employees are required to remain “waiting” on the premises, such “waiting time” will be compensated for in the following manner.
(a)	Timeworkers:
At their regular rates of pay
(b)	Pieceworkers:
At their average incentive hourly earnings during the 4 (four) weeks immediately preceding the week in which the “waiting time” occurs.
(c)	Team Pieceworkers:
such as: Automated Balling and Pull Skein Machine Operators, Packers, etc., will be paid their 4 (four) weekly average as in (b) above. Notwithstanding anything else in this article, during breakdowns, an employee who is qualified and is assigned to other work will be paid the appropriate piece work rate. In the absence of such alternate work the employee will be paid the Automated Machine non-incentive rate.
* Definition:
The Automated Machine non-incentive rate is an hourly rate applied to individual or team piece work operations which combine manual and automatic functions where operators’ attention is important to maximize machine efficiency.
23
(d)	If an employee who has completed his probationary period is. transferred to other work in lieu of lay-off, he will be paid the rate of a General Jobber, provided that his rate at the time of transfer is higher than the General Jobber rate, otherwise his rate will be at the learning rate for the job.
4.	REPORTING TIME:
Unless he has been advised by the Company not to report, an employee who reports for work at the commencement of his regular shift and for whom no work is available in his normal classification shall be paid the equivalent of 4 (four) hours’work at his regular rate provided that if requested by the Company the employee shall perform available work to which he may be assigned, and further provided that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply in the event of power or steam failure, fire flood or any other conditions whatsoever beyond the control of the Company.
Failure of an employee to keep the Company informed of his correct home address and telephone number, if any, shall relieve the Company of the responsibility to provide work or make payment in lieu of such work as provided for in the provisions of the paragraph above.
An employee who has been absent from work for any reason and fails to advise the Company within 24 (twenty-four) hours prior to his returning to work will not be allowed to work the shift if the Company has scheduled another employee to fill his position for that shift, nor will the employee involved be compensated under Article 10, #4 Reporting Time.
24
5.	REST PERIODS:
Employees will be allowed 2 (two) 10 (ten) minute rest periods during their shift. In departments where machine operations do not require the constant attention of operatives, the machines will remain running, and in the event a situation develops where a machine requires immediate attention to avoid faulty work or waste, the operator will be expected to interrupt his rest period and correct the situation, after which he will be allowed to resume his rest period. Piece Work rates have been constructed to include compensation for rest periods and there will be no loss of earnings for time workers.
6.	SHIFT PREMIUMS:
A shift premium of .28 (twenty-eight cents) per hour will be paid to employees on the second shift.
7.	A shift premium of .38 (thirty-eight cents) per hour will be paid to employees working on the third shift.
ARTICLE 11 - HOLIDAYS
11.01
The following holidays shall be observed as paid statutory holidays:
New Year's Eve Good Friday Victoria Day Civic Holiday Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Paternity Day
New Year's Day Easter Monday Canada Day Labour Day Christmas Eve Boxing Day
Citizenship Day (for new Canadians)
11.02
11.03
11.04
25
Subject to the qualifications outlined in 11.03, employees will be paid for statutory holidays	in the following	manner:
(a)	Tlmeworkers:
At their regular rates of pay
(b)	Pieceworkers:
At their average incentive hourly earnings during the 4 (four) weeks immediately preceding the week in which the holiday falls.
(c)	Team pieceworkers:	Automated	Balling & Pull
Skein Machine Operators, Packers, etc:
At their average incentive hourly earnings during the 4 (four) weeks immediately preceding the week in which the holiday falls.
An employee wilt only be entitled to payment for these holidays if he has completed the probationary period and must attend for the declared working day immediately preceding the holiday and report back within 30 (thirty) minutes after the start of operations on the declared working day immediately following the holiday.
For the purpose of 11.03 an employee shall not be deemed absent from work when he is required by law for jury duty, court witness, reserve army training, nor when absent for sickness if verified by lirst aid, employee’s own supervisor or by doctor's note, nor when temporarily laid-off provided the employee has been at work at any time during the 5 (five) working days immediately preceding the holiday or has been recalled and reports for work within 30 (thirty) minutes after the
26
star-l of operations on the declared working day immediately lollowing the holiday.
Employees who are eligible for Sick Benefit payments based on supplying the Company, with a medical certificate and employees who are in receipt of Sick Benefit payments will be paid for statutory holidays at the Sick Benefit rate only.
11.05	Where a holiday falls on a day when the plant is not normally operating (i.e. Saturday and Sunday) the plant will close the following Monday or preceding Friday at the Company's option.
11.06	Employees normally required to work on a holiday can elect to take one or the other of the following options.
(a)	Be paid overtime! rate of time-and-one-half and be allowed a day off with pay at a later date.
(b)	Forfeit the holidayjand receive overtime rates of time-and-one-half for all hours worked plus a normal day’s pay in lieu of the holiday.
11.07	Employees who are not normally required to work on a holiday but who, due to an emergency or other unforeseen circumstances are required to do so, can elect to take one or the other of the following options.
(a)	Be paid the overtime rate of time-and-one-half and be allowed a day off with pay at a later date.
(b)	Forfeit the holiday and receive overtime rates of time-and-one-half for all hours worked plus a normal day’s pay in lieu of the holiday.
11.08	Where a holiday falls during an employee’s annual vacation
period, such employee wijl be allowed to:
27
(a)	Add an extra day on to the end of their vacation period if agreeable to Management.
(b)	Be allowed a day off with pay at a date ‘convenient to the Company, in lieu of the holiday.
11.09	Employees will be paid for a normal working shift of 8 (eight) hours with the following exceptions:
(a)	Employees who regularly work less than a normal working day will be paid for the hours regularly worked.
(b)	Employees who regularly work more than a normal working day will be paid for the hours regularly worked plus the overtime premium.
11.10	The above sections, 11.06, 11.07, 11.08 and 11.09 apply only to employees who are qualified under 11.03.
ARTICLE 12 - VACATION WITH PAY
12.01	( a ) Annual vacations will be observed during the two (2) calendar weeks immediately preceding Civic Holiday and, with the exception of the Receiving, Iron Street Distribution Centre, Shade Card and Maintenance, all other departments will close down unless in the opinion of the Company, it is deemed essential to continue certain operations, in whole or in part,
(b) In the event it is deemed essential to continue certain operations in departments which are normally closed down, operators will be recruited on a voluntary basis and those who work will take the vacation to which they are entitled under 12.03, at a time mutually
28
convenient to the Company and the employee.
12.02	VACATION YEAR:
In order to determine an employee's gross annual earnings as a basis from which to compute vacation pay, the vacation year will be the 52 (fifty-two) weeks ending with the Saturday nearest April 30.
12.03	(a) Employees completing 1 (one) year’s continuous
service as at the Saturday nearest April 30 will be eligible for 2 (two) weeks vacation and will be paid 4% (four) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation
year.
(b) Employees completing 5 (five) years but less than 11 (eleven) years’ continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for 3 (three) weeks vacation; 2 (two) weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and 1 (one) week at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid 6% (six) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
(c)	Employees completing 11 (eleven) years but less than 12 (twelve) years’ continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for 3 (three) weeks vacation; 2 (two) weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and 1 (one) week at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid 7% (seven) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
29
(d)	Employees completing 12 (twelve) years but less than 13 (thirteen) years’ continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for 4 (four) weeks vacation; 2 (two) weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and 2 (two) weeks at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid 8% (eight) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
(e)	Employees completing 13 (thirteen) years but less than 18 (eighteen) years’ continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for 4 (four) weeks vacation; 2 (two) weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and 2 (two) weeks at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid 9% (nine) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
(f)	Employees completing 18 (eighteen) years but less than 21 (twenty-one) years’ continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for 4 (four) weeks vacation; 2 (two) weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and 2 (two) weeks at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid 10% (ten) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
to) Effective May 1,1995, employees completing 22 years of service at any time during the year will be entitled to 5 (five) weeks vacation; 2 (two) weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and 3 (three) weeks at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee will be paid 11% (eleven) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
30
Notwithstanding 12.03 (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g), employees who have not taken their vacations at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee by January 31st of a vacation year may be asked by the Company to take their remaining vacations at a time suitable to the Company. The Company will not unreasonably force employees to take their vacation.
Employees with less than 1 (one) year of continuous service with the Company whose employment is terminated during the vacation year will receive vacation pay for that portion of the vacation year worked in accordance with the Employment Standard Act as revised.
Employees with 1 (one) or more year's continuous service with the Company whose employment is terminated during the vacation year will receive vacation pay for that portion of the year so worked, in accordance with the applicable percentage referred to in (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), or (g), of Section 12.03.
12.05	In the case of employees who have lost time during the
vacation year due to an injury or occupational disease covered by the Workers' Compensation Act, one and one-third times the actual wages paid by the Company during the vacation year will be used to provide the gross earnings figure to calculate the percentage for vacation purposes.
12.06	Where any provision contained in paragraph 12.03 and 12.04 is found to provide for vacation credits which fall short of the statutory requirements set forth in the current Employment Standards Act, then the v&cation credits provided by the Act shall apply. NOTE: All vacation pay to be given at time of shut-down, upon request.'
(h)
12.04 (a)
(b)
31
ARTICLE 13 - SENIORITY
13.01 Separate Seniority shall be established for each of the following departments or occupational groups.
Drawing/Spinning Department
Twisting/Reeling Department
Dyehouse Department
Finishing Department	Winding, Yarn Printing and
	Brushing Section
Finishing Department	Balling, Pull Skein, Steaming and Accumulators Sections
Finishing Department	Packing Section
Finishing Department	Overprinting Section
Finishing Department	General Section (Jobbers, Clerical, Material Handlers)
Finishing Department	Sewings & Crafts Section
Roselawn Avenue, Bulk Pack/Receiving Section Inspection Department Shade Card Department
Iron Street Distribution Centre
32
Maintenance Department	(Maintenance General
Services, Machinery Maintenance and
Carpenters)
13.02	All employees shall be considered probationary for the first 40 (forty) days worked in the bargaining unit and shall have no seniority rights during that period. After such period, they shall be considered permanent employees and their seniority shall commence from the date of last hiring.
Students hired for summer vacation relief will be probationary employees for the entire relief period and will not be confirmed as permanent employees during that period.
An extension of the probationary period may be granted by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union, but this extension may not exceed 25 (twenty-five) days worked and each case will be treated on an individual basis.
13.03	Notwithstanding Article 13.02 those employees who are hired to meet temporary requirements will be termed as temporary and will not be retained beyond 40 (forty) days worked.
It is recognized by both parties that the use of temporary employees is essential to meet manning needs created by short-run production and technology changes, vacation, leave of absence and other emergency situations, as well as to reduce the need for the lay-off of full-time employees. The following points summarize our understanding on temporary employees:
(a)	If there are people on lay-off who are capable of doing the respective work, and the work is scheduled to exceed one week, they will first be offered temporary work before other individuals are approached. Unless
33
the temporary work is on their previous job, an individual^ refusal to accept temporary work will not affect their recall rights.
<b) Individuals on temporary jobs are not eligible to sign job postings.
(c)	Temporary jobs will not normally exceed 40 (forty) days worked. If the job exceeds that time, a meeting will be held with the Union President to discuss the anticipated extent to which the job will continue and whether it will become a permanent job. All extensions beyond 40 (forty) days worked must be approved by the Union.
(d)	“Temporary employees will not be asked to work overtime unless other employees in the department who are qualified and available have refused.”
13.04	When an employee is transferred from one department to
another department, his seniority will remain in his previous department for a period of 90 (ninety) days, after which time his seniority will be transferred to the new department.
13.05	(a ) In the case of lay-offs for the purpose of reducing the
work force, seniority shall be the deciding factor and the last regular employee hired shall be the first laid-off and similarly the last regular employee laid-off shall be the first re-hired provided those who remain on account of seniority are capable, willing, available and fully qualified in respect to skill, competence and efficiency to satisfactorily perform without further training whatever work is available in the department concerned. Satisfactory performance shall be defined as being not less than the average for experienced workers in the department or occupational group.
34
(b)	The Company will not, however, be obliged to adhere to this procedure when laying off employees for a
period of up to one complete shift because of a temporary lack of work occurring at irregular intervals. If, however, the foregoing should occur at regular intervals to avoid a reduction in the work force, the terms in the foregoing (a) shall apply.
(c)	The Company wilt not exercise the right stated in (a) above to depart from strict seniority when a reduction in the work force becomes necessary, unless the employee or employees who do not measure up to “Satisfactory Performance” have first had a warning in writing at least two weeks prior to the start of the reduction in the work force and they may be laid-off out of seniority unless there is a substantial improvement in their work performance and that the improvement is sustained.
(d)	In the event of a serious and permanent reduction of the work force in an individual department or occupational group becomes necessary and there is little likelihood of employees affected being recalled to the department or occupational group concerned, the following privileges will apply only in respect to employees who have had 4 (four) or more continuous years' of service with the Company.
Notwithstanding the separate department or occupational group seniority provided in Section 13.01 of this Article, an employee having 4 (four) or more years continuous service, who is affected by the aforementioned reduction, may exercise his plant seniority to displace the least senior employee who has less plant seniority in another department or occupational group. Furthermore, the Company will
35
undertake to train such employee for a period of time
and at the remuneration specified below:
(I)	Transfer to Time-Rated Classification:
An employee exercising his plant seniority in a time-rated classification will be allowed a two month training period and will be paid at the learning rate or the low of the range for the particular job classification to which a transfer has been arranged.
(II)	Transfer to an Individual Piece Work
Operation:
An employee exercising his plant seniority in an individual piece work operation will be allowed a 2 (two) month training period and will be paid at the learning rate for the individual piece work operation to which a transfer has been arranged.
13.06	In hiring new employees, preference shall, subject to the same conditions respecting skill, competence and efficiency as in 13.05, be given to those former employees who have had previous service with the Company and who have applications for re-employment on file, providing they are physically fit and were not discharged for cause. This however, shall not in any way limit the Company’s right to employ technically trained or specially skilled workers.
13.07	In making promotions within the Bargaining Unit, preference
shall, subject to same conditions respecting skill, competence and efficiency as in 13.05 be given to employees having the longest service.
36
13.08	Promotions to supervisory positions shall not be subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
13.09	In the event that an employee within the bargaining unit is
promoted to a supervisory or confidential position beyond the scope of this agreement, he shall have from the date of promotion, 6 (six) months to determine whether he wishes to return to the bargaining unit or not. In the event that he does not return to the bargaining unit within this 6 (six) month period he shall lose all his seniority he had attained while he was in the bargaining unit.
13.10	When a permanent and major change in duties and job
location becomes necessary effecting one or more, but not all employees within a department or occupational group, the employees with the highest seniority shall be given the first opportunity to accept or decline such change.
13.11	The Company agrees to post and circulate notice of any
opening or a new or vacant occupation for a period of 2 (two) working days. Employees with sufficient skill, competence and efficiency may make' application through their supervisor and seniority will govern where other factors are relatively equal.
It is understood that in the event of a job posting on new equipment, opportunity will be given to existing employees to train on such machines before new employees are hired, provided the existing employees have the skill and ability to operate the new equipment. Seniority will govern where other factors are relatively equal. Skill, competence and efficiency shall be determined by the Management and should an orientation or adjustment period be necessary, this will be paid at the learning rate.
In the event the job should prove unsatisfactory to the employee concerned, any right to return to the job from which
37
the transfer was made, or any other job, will be at the sole discretion of the Management.
13.12	The necessary employment of personnel on days on which the plant would normally be closed shall be by seniority, subject to ability to perform the work.
13.13	(a) Seniority lists showing each employee's seniority standing shall be posted by the Company on the departmental notice boards. After these lists have remained posted for a period of two weeks they shall be deemed to be correct and become final except in the case of any employee who files a written protest with his supervisor within the said 2 (two) week period concerning the incorrectness of his seniority date which shall be subject to adjustment if it is proved to be incorrect.
(b) Seniority lists shall be brought up to date every six months and copies of these lists will be made available to the Union.
13.14	Seniority shall be lost if the employee:
(a) Voluntarily leaves the employ of the Company.
<*>) Is justifiably discharged.
(e)	Is absent without leave or due notice for a period greater than 5 (five) working days.
38
(d)	After lay-off fails to report for work within 1 (one) week after recall unless other arrangements have been made with the Company.
(e)	Seniority will be lost if lay-off exceeds the time limits stated in 13.15 (a) or (b)
(f)	Fails to return to work on the regular shift immediately following the expiration of the leave of absence, as described in 14.01, unless the employee both notifies the Company prior to the expiration of the Leave of Absence and also provides the Company with proof of the employee's attempt to return to work as scheduled.
(g)	Works elsewhere while on Leave of Absence without written permission from the Company to do such work.
13.15 Recall after lay-off
(a)	An employee with less than 1 (one) year of seniority shall have recall rights equal to his length of seniority.
(b)	An employee with more than 1 (one) year of seniority
shall be entitled to recall up to 12 (twelve) months from date of lay-off.
<c) Recall will be based on seniority and advice of recall will be confirmed via registered mail to the employee
involved.
Should the most senior employee not be available at time of recall, the next senior employee will be contacted.
However, if the most senior employee becomes available for work, he will displace the last senior employee recalled.
39
ARTICLE 14 - LEAVE OF ARSFNCF
14.01	The Company may grant Leave of Absence for legitimate personal reasons. Any Leave of Absence will be in writing and no such leave will affect an employee’s seniority rights when used for the purpose granted, provided the employee returns to work on the regular shift immediately following the expiration of the Leave of Absence.
14.02	Any statutory holiday or statutory holidays which might fall during a leave of absence as mentioned in 14.01 above, will not be paid for nor compensated for in any manner whatsoever, and when Leave of Absence is granted for the declared working day immediately preceding a statutory holiday and when granted for the declared working day immediately following a statutory holiday the provisions of 11.03 will apply.
14.03	The Company will grant Leave of Absence to the President of the Local, and for two other delegated Union Members provided they are not from the same occupational group, to attend Union conventions, conferences and educational seminars, provided that the Company is notified at least 7 (seven) working days in advance of any such requested leaves and in the opinion of the Company the employees concerned can be spared from their work. The leaves will be granted to a maximum of 15 (fifteen) working days without pay for the President of the Local, a total of 15 (fifteen) working days without pay for the other delegate Union members and an additional 15 (fifteen) working days for the delegate Union member elected to serve on the Joint Council. Such Leaves of Absences shall not be unreasonably withheld and will be exempt from provisions of 14.02 and will not therefore be considered absence for the purpose of 11.03.
14.04	The Company will grant leave of absence to an employee called for Jury Duty and the Company will compensate such
40
employee for any loss in earnings to the extent of the difference between Jury Duty remuneration and his normal earnings.
14.05	The Company will grant leave of absence with pay to an
employee suffering a bereavement in his immediate family. Such leave of absence shall be granted for a reasonable mourning period and the funeral but shall in no event be for a period of more than 3 (three) working days. Immediate family shall be defined as - Father, Mother, Husband, Wife, Children, Brothers, Sisters, Grandchildren and Grandparents.
14.06	The Company will grant leave of absence with pay to an
employee whose spouse has suffered a bereavement of their Mother or Father and such leave of absence shall be granted for the day of the funeral only.
14.07	Maternity Leave
When a participating employee is absent from work for a maternity leave, the Company will pay the following premiums up to a maximum period of 17 (seventeen) weeks:
1.	Drug Plan
2.	Dental Plan
3.	Life Insurance
4.	Vision Care
ARTICLE 15 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
15.01	There shall be no lockout by the Company, or strike, slowdown or suspension of work, either complete or partial by the employees, nor any limitations or restrictions placed upon the individual working efforts of the employees, during the life of this Agreement.
41
15.02	In the event of any controversy or dispute between the Company and any other outside group or any organization of its employees, the Union and the employees who come within the scope of this Agreement agree that they will continue to perform their duties irrespective of any such controversy or dispute with any other groups or organizations. In the case of violation of this clause by an individual or individuals, the Union agrees that an effort will be made to rectify the situation.
ARTICLE 16 ■ NO DISCRIMINATION OR INTIMIDATION
16.01	It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination, coercion or intimidation by the Company, the Union, or its officers or members against any employee because of his activity or lack of activity, his membership or non-membership in any labour organization.
16.02	It is further agreed that there shall be no solicitation of
members, collection of dues or other Union activities on the premises of the Company during working hours except as permitted by this Agreement. It is understood that no meeting of the Union or its members shall be held on the premises of the Company at any time without the prior written approval of the Company.
16.03	An employee who violates any of the provisions of this article may be appropriately dealt with by the Company under the provisions of Article 3.
42
ARTICLE 17 - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES AND MAINTENANCE ___________OR MEMBERSHIP__________________________
17.01	The Company will, upon the receipt of authorization cards signed by an employee, deduct from his pay each month the sum specified by the Union as being the amount of Union dues, or inform such employee that the amount specified by the Union as his monthly dues be deducted from his pay. The first such deduction to be made after 4 (four) clear weeks, to be the initiation fee payable to the Local's Financial Secretary. Subsequent deductions to be remitted by cheque to the Ontario Joint Council Office prior to the end of the month in which the deduction is made.
Employees hired on a temporary basis will not be required to sign a Union card but will be required to pay the Local's Financial Secretary the equivalent of 1 (one) month's Union dues after 4 (four) clear weeks. This will be deemed to the Local Initiation Fee.
17.02	The Company, at the time of making each remittance to the Union, will supply a statement showing the name of each employee from whose pay such deduction has been made.
17.04	“The Company agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that an employee who, at the date of this Agreement, is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member after that date, shall maintain such membership during the life of this Agreement. The Union agrees that if they should act unilaterally to suspend or terminate membership of an employee, that action shall not result in termination of employment.”
43
ARTICLE 1B - BULLETIN BOARDS
18.01	The Company agrees to extend to the Union the privilege of using all bulletin boards to be located in the mill in locations designated by the Company, provided that the use of such bulletin boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon only of such notices as have been signed by the President or other authorized signing officer of the Union and have received prior approval of the Company through the Human Resources Manager.
18.02	The following types of notices may be posted:
Notices of Union recreational and social affairs. Notices of Union elections, results of elections and Union appointments, and
Notices of Union meetings or of any other similar business of the Union.
18.03	The Union agrees that no pamphlets, handbills or other
publications will be distributed on the premises of the Company and without the prior approval of the Management.
ARTICLE 19 ■ WELFARE & SAFETY
19.01	In the interest of Safety and Accident Prevention the Company will pay 90% (ninety) percent of the employee cost of safety shoes up to a maximum of $65.00 (sixty-five) dollars for one pair per year for each employee upon receipt of invoice.
19.02	Each new employee hired will be obliged to purchase a pair of safety shoes and reimbursement will be made in accordance with Article 19.01 upon completion of his probationary period.
19.03	The Company will provide the choice of one or two piece
uniforms to Maintenance employees engaged in machinery maintenance and shops and to the Dyehouse Drug Room Clerk on the basis of 2 (two) pairs per year.
44
New employees hired will be issued their choice of one or two piece uniforms upon completion of their probationary period.
19.04	(a) The Company and the Union are in complete
agreement with the Safety Rules and Regulations of The Department of Labour for the Province of Ontario, as provided for in the current Occupational Health and Safety Act and will work together in the interest of Safety and Accident Prevention.
(b) The Company will agree to the election of a Safety
Committee of not more than four members of the Local Union who shall be part of any plant Safety Committee.
19.05	(a) When a participating employee is absent from work for
leave of absence, lack ofworkorany other reason not described in 19.05 (b) or (c) below for a period in excess of 2 (two) months, the Company will pay the premiums for Drug Plan, Dental Plan, Life Insurance and Vision Care for those two months after which time the Company may at its own discretion, select one or other of the following options:
(1) Continue to pay the premiums and recover the appropriate amount by payroll deduction on the employee's return to work,
OR
(2) Offer the employee the opportunity to pay the Company directly at current premium rates and the Company will maintain coverage
45
(b) When a participating employee is absent from work due to sickness or non work related accidents, the Company will maintain the following premiums up to a maximum of 4 (four) months:
1.	Drug Plan
2.	Dental Plan
3.	Life Insurance
4.	Vision Care
After 4 (four) months the Company may at its own discretion select one of the two options outlined in
19.05	(a) above.
(c) When a participating employee is absent from work due to a work related accident, the Company will maintain the following premiums as required under the Workers’ Compensation Action (Bill 162):
1.	Drug Plan
2.	Dental Plan
3.	Life Insurance
4.	Vision Care
19.06	(a) Sick Benefit:
The Company agrees to provide weekly benefits under the Coats Paton Sick Benefit Fund in the amount of $48.00 (forty-eight) dollars per day per person. Employees shall become eligible to make a claim under the plan after completing 6 (six) months continuous service with the Company.
46
(b) Upon completion of 2 (two) working days of disability, an employee will receive $48.00 (forty-eight) dollars per normal working day retroactive to the first day of disability up to the tenth working day when Unemployment Insurance Benefits normally take effect, provided the employee provides the Company with a medical certificate.
19.07	Attendance Bonus:
Commencing April 1, 1982 each employee, who is not *late or absent for any reason other than **lack of work or short term lay-off, earned vacation entitlement, statutory holidays, jury duty or bereavement up to the maximum number of days allowed, will receive a perfect attendance bonus based on the following:
1.	Upon	completion	of 3	(three) months	-$25.00
2.	Upon	completion	of 6	(six) months	-	$50.00
3.	Upon	completion	of 9	(nine) months	-	$50.00
4.	Upon	completion	of 12 (twelve months	-	$75.00
*	Perfect attendance will mean all regular starting and
stopping times have been adhered to.
** Lack of work or short term lay-off will be understood to mean a period that does not exceed 10 (ten) consecutive working days at any one time.
Should an employee fail to qualify in any quarterly period, as published, he will be allowed to re-qualify for a three month perfect attendance bonus commencing with the following
quarter.
When 12 (twelve) months perfect attendance has been attained by an employee he will be eligible to start the perfect
19.08
47
attendance program over again.
( a ) Drug Plan:
The Company will maintain the premiums for a prescribed Drug Plan for all eligible employees.
Premiums for the plan will be paid for by the Company on behalf of all eligible employees.
An eligible employee is defined as an employee who has completed his probationary period and whose spouse's Drug Plan, if any, is less advantageous.
Temporary employees will not be eligible for coverage.
Coverage under the Plan will be based according to a two tiered plan. Part “A” and Part "B", details are provided in the Benefits Booklet.
(b)	Prescription Glasses:
The Company agrees to assume the cost of prescription glasses for employees and their immediate family, being spouse and children, as follows:
1 (one) pair every 24 (twenty-four) months, no deductible to a maximum of $100.00 (one hundred) dollars.
(c)	Dental Plan:
The Company will maintain the premiums for a prescribed Dental Plan for all eligible employees.
48
Premiums for the plan will be paid for by the Company on behalf of all eligible employees.
An eligible employee is defined as an employee who has completed his probationary period and whose spouse's Dental Plan, if any, is less advantageous.
Temporary employees will not be eligible for coverage.
*Coverage under the Plan includes Restorative, Periodontics, Endodontics, Root Canals, Bridges and Crowns. There will be a yearly deductible charge of $25.00 (twenty-five) for employees covered under single or family status. Reimbursement for allowed expenses for restorative, endodontics and periodontic will be 80%. Reimbursement for allowed expenses for root canals, bridge and crowns will be 50%.
Schedule of fees: Based on the previous year O.D.A.
19.09 The Company will supply one parka jacket per year to Utility Persons and to the two Material Handlers in the Roselawn Ave. Bulk Pack/Receiving Dept., one jacket also to be available in the Dyehouse and one in Top Stock.
In addition, Utility Persons will be given rubber boots and protective clothing for cleaning around Dyehouse kettles.
One parka jacket or vest will be provided to each of the Iron Street truck drivers.
49
ARTICLE 20 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
20.01	This Agreement shall continue in effect from the 1st dayof May, 1994 to the 30th day of June, 1997 and shall continue" automatically thereafter for periods of three years, unless either party notifies the other, in writing, within the period of two months preceding the expiration date of this Agreement that it desires to amend or terminate it.
20.02	Negotiations shalt begin within 21 (twenty-one) days following notification for amendments as provided in the preceding paragraph.
20.03	If, pursuant to such negotiations, an agreement is not reached on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement prior to the expiration date, it shall expire unless it is extended for a specific period by mutual agreement of the parties.
50
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has causd this Agreement to be signed by their duly authorized representatives this 12th day of January 1995.
For Coats Patons
B.M. Loftus President
S.	Morra
Human Resources Manager
T.	H. Wilson V.P. Operations
For Amalgamated Clothing & Textile Workers Union Local 836______
H. Aitcheson
President
W. Hailwood
I. Caravella
I. Prentice
Don Mascoll
W. Charters Business Agent
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
DRAWING/SPINNING DEPARTMENTS
51
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
TWISTING/REELING DEPARTMENT
auntuuuz “A-11Mb HA1 fcU CLASSIFICATIONS
DYEHOUSE DEPARTMENT
53
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
FINISHING DEPARTMENT
SWA Yarn Printing Machine Operator
Winding
Machine
Operator
Brushing
Machine
Operator
Balling Pullskein
Machine
Operator
Accumulator
Operator
Automated Machine NonIncentive Rate
11.01 p.h. PIECEWORK
PIECE WORK
PIECE WORK
PIECE WORK
PIECE WORK
10.95 p.h.
SWA Yarn Printing Machine Operator
Winding
Machine
Operator
Brushing
Machine
Operator
Balling Pullskein
Machine
Operator
Accumulator
Operator
Automated Machine NonIncentive Rate
11.26 p.h. PIECEWORK
PIECE WORK
PIECE WORK
PIECE WORK
PIECE WORK
11.20 p.h.
55
EFFE	.CTIVE APRIL 30. 1995	EFFE	CTIVE APRIL 28. 1996 '
Accumulator Fault Yarn Rate (Applicable /hen 4 /eekly average earnings is in excess of $11.23 p.h.)	11.23 p.h. i	Accumulator i Faulty Yarn Rate (Applicable /hen 4 /eekly average earnings is in excess of 511-48 p.h.)	11.48 p.h. j
“Accumulator” Allo/ance	.10 p.h.	“Accumulator” Allo/ance	.10 p.h.
IWrt I IUIW
ROSELAWN AVENUE BULK PACK/RECEIV1NG
EFFECTIVE APRIL 30. 1995
EFFECTIVE APRIL 28. 1996
57
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
EFFECTIVE APRIL 30. 1995					EFFECTIVE		UPRIL 28. 1996		
Classification	Rate				Classification	Rate			
Beginners & Learners	10.53 p.h.				Beginners & Learners	10.78 p.h.			
	Low	2 Mos.	6 Mos.	1 Year		Low	2 Mos.	6 Mos.	Year
Inspection Operator	10.78 p.h.	10.95 p.h	11.07 p.h.	11.15 p.h.	Inspection Operator	11.03 p.h.	11.20 p.h.	11.32 p.h.	11.40 p.h.
Inspection Coordinator	12.35 D.h.	12.89 D.h.	13.41 D.h.	13.83 D.h.	Inspection Coordinator	12.60 D.h.	13.14 D.h.	13.66 D.h.	14.08 D.h.
58
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
SHADE CARD DEPARTMENT
EFFECTIVE APRIL 30. 1995
2 Mos
6 Mos
EFFECTIVE APRIL 28. 1996
Classification
Low
2 JMos.
6 Mos.
10.63
P-h.
10.71
P-h.
Shade Card Maker
10.78 I 10.88 I 10.96 II
p.h. I p.h. I p.h. II
59
EFFECTIVE APRIL 28. 1996
61
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
MAINTENANCE
EFFECTIVE APRIL 31			X 1995			E	FFECTI	VE API	?IL 28. 1996		
DeDartment	Rate 2		6_ Mos. Y	1_ ear	Advncd.	DeDartment	Rate	2 Mos.	6_	1 Year	Advncd.
& Class if ic.		Mos.				& Class if ic.					
											
Skilled											
Trades											
M e c h a n i Electo Mechanic #3	c 14.; p.h.	4 14.5! p.h.	) 14.81 p.h.		15.90 p.h	Mechanic Electro Mechanic #3	14.59 p.h.	14.84 P-h-	15.06 p.h.		16.15 p.h.
M e c h a n i Electro Mechanic #4	c 16.( p.h.	€ 16.1! p.h.	) 17.11 p.h.		17.62 p.h.	Mechanic Electro Mechanic #4	16.31 p.h.	16.44 p.h.	17.36 p.h.		77.87 p.h.
Electro 17 Mechanic #5	88 1 p.h.	8.15 p.h.	18.67 p.h.			Electro Mechanic #5	18.13 p.h.	18.40 P-h-	18.92 p.h.		
Carpente	r 13.S p.h.	9 14:01 p.h.	I 14.18 p.h.	14.34 p.h.		Carpenter	14.24 p.h.	14.34 p.h.	14.43 p.h.	14.59 p.h.	
EFFECTIVE APRIL 30. 1995	|	EFFECTIVE APRIL 28. 1996
Department	Rate	2_	6.	1	Advncd. Department	Rate	2_	6	1	Advncd.
& Classlfic.		Mos.	Mos.	Year	| & Classlfic.		Mos.	Mos.	Year	
Skilled
Trades
General
Helper
Trades	11.28
persons’	p.h.
Apprentices
11.40
p.h.
Trades	11.53
persons’	p.h.
Apprentices
11.65
p.h.
Factory Jan itor
Utility
10.71
p.h.
11.28
11.00
p.h.
11.40
Person
p.h.
p.h.
63