INDEX
ARTICLE
It	Purpose and Obligation..............................1
II	Recognition and Coverage............................1
Hit	Reservation of Management Functions.................2
IV	No Discrimination or Intimidation...................2
V	Union Representation................................3
VI	Grievance Procedure.................................4
VII	Arbitration.......................................  6
VIII	Strikes and Lockouts............................... 7
IX	Seniority Provisions.............................   7
X	Wages..............................................10
XI	Hours of Work and Overtime.........................11
XII	Plant Holidays.....................................14
XIII	Vacation with Pay..................................16
XIV	Safety. Health and Benefits........................18
XV	Notice Boards......................................22
XVI	Notices............................................23
XVII	Maintenance of Membership..........................23
XVIII	Deduction of Union Dues............................24
XIX	Duration and Modification
of Agreement....................................25
Appendix "A".......................................26
Appendix "B".......................................28
Letter of Understanding - Weekend Shift............29
Letter of Understanding - Pension Plan.............32
Letter of Understanding - Red	Circle Rates.........34
Ec 'iyj
THIS AGREEMENT entered into at Hamilton, Ontario as of 7th day of July, 1993 BETWEEN :
PORRITTS & SPENCER CANADA INC.
HAMILTON, ONTARIO (hereinafter called the "Company”)
- and -
THE AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION.
AFL-CIO, CLC, LOCAL 720T (hereinafter called the ''Union")
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE AND OBLIGATION
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees and to provide an amicable method of settling any grievances or differences which may arise hereunder, and to further provide means for operation of the plant in a manner which will further in all possible ways the welfare and safety of employees, betterment and quality of product, economy of manufacture and quantity of output, all to the mutual interest and advantage of the employees and the Company.
1.02	All provisions and terms of this Agreement are hereby mutually agreed to by and between the Company and all the employees who are herein represented by the Union, and signed by representatives of the parties hereto who have been duly authorized to execute the same on,their behalf respectively. The fulfilment of this Agreement shall be fully observed by the employees, the Officers and members of the Union and by the Company and it shall be the duty of all to see that this Agreement is carried out both in letter and in spirit.
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION AND COVERAGE
2,01	Porritts & Spencer Canada Inc. Hamilton, Ontario
recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency with respect to all matters properly arising under this Agreement covering their Hamilton operation for all employees, including maintenance men and factory clerical staff, save and except foremen (department heads), those above the rank of foreman, stationary engineers and office staff.
2.02	Where the masculine pronoun is used herein it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context so applies.
2.03	The Company may hire part-time employees who regularly work twenty-four (24) hours or less a week. The Company may also hire temporary employees for up to thirty (30) continuous working days, or such longer period as is agreed to, when regular employees are absent on account of sickness, accident or any leave of absence. Such part-time and temporary employees shall not be covered by this Agreement provided that they are not hired for the purpose of displacing permanent employees.
ARTICLE III - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency
(b)	Hire, discharge, direct, classify, transfer, promote, demote and suspend or otherwise discipline employee's, subject to the terms of this Agreement;
(c)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacture, schedules
of production, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, process of manufacturing, and engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced, and the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations.
3.02	The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Agreement.
3.03	The parties acknowledge that supervisors perform work that is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, and in consideration of this the Company agrees that no supervisor will perform such work to the extent and volume that it directly results in the lay-off or prevents the recall of an employee to a full-time regular job.
ARTICLE IV - NO DISCRIMINATION OR INTIMATION
4.01	It is agreed that there will be no discrimination, coercion or intimidation by the Company or the Union, or by their respective representatives or members, against any employee.
4.02	The Union further agrees that there will be no solicitation for membership, collection of dues or other Union activity on the premises of the Company during working hours, except as specifically permitted by the Agreement and/or with the permission of the Company.
4.03	Violation of this Article shall render any employee liable tq discipline or dismissal.
ARTICLE V - UNION REPRESENTATION
5.01	The Union will appoint stewards whose duties shall be to assist employees in the stewards' respective zones in presenting their grievances to representatives of the Company in accordance with the Grievance Procedure. The Company shall recognize stewards to be allocated to zones and shifts as follows:
Felt:
(a)	Yarn Preparation
(b)	Weaving
(c)	Burling
(d)	Fibrelocker
(e)	Finishing
1 steward per shift 1 steward per shift 1 steward per shift 1 steward per shift 1 steward per shift
5,02	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the stewards, the Zone, and the shift each represents and of any changes in the personnel of the stewards before the Company shall be required to recognize them.
5,03	The Company agrees to communicate with the Local Union Committee in the event of cases of discipline, discharge, lay-off, recall and in general matters affecting the bargaining unit.
5.04	Employees shall not be eligible to serve as stewards or as members of the Union Grievance Committee unless they have been in the Company’s continuous employ for at least one year.
3.05	It is understood that stewards and members of the Union Grievance Committee have their regular work to perform on behalf of the Company, and that if it is necessary to service a complaint and/or a grievance during working hours, they will not leave their work without obtaining the permission of their Department Head. When resuming their regular work they will report to their Department Head and will give a reasonable explanation which may be requested with respect to their absence.
5.06	In order that there will be as little loss of time and production as possible, it is understood that, when possible, complaints and/or grievances will be serviced outside of working hours.
5 .,07 UNION GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE:	The President, Vice President,
Secretary and Treasurer of the Union shall constitute the Grievance committee and the Bargaining Committee and shall be allowed reasonable time off to attend meetings with the Management to negotiate a renewal of this Agreement, and shall be paid for all time spent attending such meetings during their regular working hours.
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6,01	Should any difference or grievance arise between the Company and the Union concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, there shall be no suspension of work on account of such difference or grievance, but an earnest effort shall be made to settle it immediately in the following manner.
STEP No. 1:
Within five full working days after the circumstances giving rise to the difference or grievance have occurred, a meeting will be convened between the aggrieved employee, shop steward and foreman of the department involved. The decision under this step shall be rendered within one working day and failing settlement, then :
STEP No. 2:
Within three full working dags following the decision under Step No. 1 by the Grievance Committee who shall submit it in writing to the Superintendent, or in his absence the Plant Manager, who will convene a meeting. The decision under this step will be rendered in writing within three full working days and failing a settlement then:
STEP No. 3:
Within five full working days following the decision under Sept No 2, by the Grievance Committee who shall submit it to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. A meeting shall take place between the Grievance Committee and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and/or his representatives. The decision will be rendered within five full working days. A member of the National Organization of the Union may be called in by either party at this step.
6..02 Failing a settlement under the above procedure of any difference between the parties arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, such difference or question may be taken to arbitration as hereinafter provided, and if no written request therefor is received within ten days after the decision in Step No. 3 is given it shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned.
6.03	The steward or stewards directly involved may act as alternates for regular members of the Grievance Committee under Steps 2 and 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
6.04	General:	Any difference or grievances arising directly
between the Company and the Union may be submitted in writing by either party at Step No. 3.
6.05	When a group of employees has a complaint or grievance it shall be first taken up under Step No. 3,
6.06	At any stage of the Grievance Procedure including arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned and any necessary witnesses, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant to view disputed operations and to confer with the.necessary witnesses.
6.07	Sundays, Plant and Statutory Holidays will not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken or completed in each of the Steps of the Grievance Procedure or under Article VI.I, Any and all time limits fixed by this Article and Article VII may, at any time, be extended by written agreement between the Company and the Union.
6.08	All decisions arrived at between the Company and representatives of the Union will be final and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employee or employees concerned.
6.09	Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent any employee from personally presenting any of his grievances directly to the Company without intervention or assistance of any Steward or other representative of the Union provided that a copy of any decision given herein shall be supplied to the Union, and further provided that no grievance shall be dealt with that may affect any other employee.
6.10	Discharge Grievances:	New employees will be considered
as probationary employees until they have completed four (4) months employment with the Company. Probationary employees may be dismissed for just. cause, provided that in the case of probationary employees, just cause will be defined as any reason satisfactory to the company so long as the company is not acting in bad faith, arbitrarily or discriminatorily contrary t o the Ontario Human Rights Code, This shall be deemed to be a lesser standard in accordance with the Ontario Labour Relation Act.
6.11	A claim by a permanent employee that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Superintendent or the Plant Manager of the Company within five days after the employee ceases to work for the Company; and Steps No. 1 and 2 will be omitted in any such case. A discharge grievance may be settled under the Grievance Procedure by confirming the Management's action in dismissing the permanent employee, by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
ARTICLE VII - ARBITRATION
7.01	When either party requests that any matter be submitted to arbitration as hereinbefore provided it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement and at the same time nominate an arbitrator. Within five full working days thereafter the other party shall nominate an arbitrator. The two arbitrators so nominated shall meet immediately, and if within three full working days they fail to settle the grievance they shall attempt to select by agreement a Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree upon such a chairman within a further period of two full working days, they may then request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario to assist them in selecting a chairman, provided that the chairman shall be selected from other than the Civil Service and shall be chosen having regard to his impartiality, his qualifications in interpreting collective bargaining agreements and his familiarity with industrial relations.
7.02	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
7.03	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
7.04	The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
7 ,,05	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be
expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of a majority of such board will be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
7,06	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of
the arbitrator appointed by it, and the parties will jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE VIII - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
8.01	In view of the orderly procedures for settling grievances, the Company agrees, that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strike or other collective action which will stop, curtail or interfere with work or production, It is understood that any employee or employees taking part in or instigating any such strike or other collective action may be appropriately dealt with by the Management under Article III of this Agreement. ’
ARTICLE IX - SENIORITY PROVISIONS
9.01	All employees shall be considered temporary until they have completed four (4) months employment with the Company and no seniority rights will be recognized during this period. When such employees have completed four (4) months employment, they shall be considered regular employees and their seniority shall date back to the day on which their last employment within the bargaining unit with the Company commenced.
9.02	For the purposes of seniority, employees of each Department ■will be considered as a separate seniority group, provided that in the practical application of the principle of seniority, particularly as it refers to lay-offs or any temporary separation from the payroll or to transfers in lieu of lay-offs and re-hiring thereafter, it is agreed that the Company will give preference to seniority in each group provided that there is equality of skill, competence and efficiency and subject to the limitations of Section 9.01 above, the last employee hired in a group shall in the case of lay-off be the first laid off. Similarly, the last employee laid off from a group shall be the first to be rehired.
9.03	Seniority shall not be forfeited during any lay-off for lack of work which does not exceed 15 months, provided that the employee advises the Company of his intention to return to work within three (3) work days of notice of recall having been given to him by telephone and/or sent to him by Courier/Priority Post to the last address he has placed on record with the Company and provided that he actually returns to work within nine (9) days of the giving, and/or sending of such notice to recall.
9..04 Except in the case of lay-offs caused by emergencies, such as machine breakdown, lack of new material, fire, flood, power or steam failure, or other conditions beyond the control of the Company, the Company shall give seven (7) days’ notice in the case of any lay-off, the duration of which is likely to exceed seven consecutive working days.
9.05	An employee who is rendered redundant or displaced from his job due to a reduction in the work force and who has not the experience to bump a more junior employee under paragraph 9,02, will not be placed on an indefinite lay-off,but shall be transferred and given training for a maximum period of twenty-five (25) days worked, in a job in which there is a more junior employee. The job to which the employee is to be transferred and trained on shall be mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union. Any employee who is transferred and trained under this subsection may not apply for training in a further classification for a period of twelve (12) month’s from the date of the transfer.
9.06	In case of promotions, upgradings, transfers and demotions, preference shall, subject to the same conditions respection skill, competence and efficiency as in Section 9.02 be given to the employee having the longest seniority.
9.07	Notice of all vacancies in occupational classifications within the bargaining unit except general labor shall be posted on the main bulletin board for a period of three (3) working days before being permanently filled. The Company will give consideration to applications in respect of such vacancies received from employees who have not been permanently transferred from one job to another during the twelve (12) month period preceding the date of the posting. Notice of vacancy referred to above shall contain adequate information respecting the job such as rate and hours of work. Where the Company does not select the senior eligible applicant for a vacancy posted under this section it shall meet with the union to discuss its selection.
While it is understood that the Company is not obliged to post vacancies in the general labor classification, it will give consideration to any employee who has in the last sixty (60) days recorded in writing with the Company his wish to be employed in another Department and/or classification in the event that a vacancy occurs in either. For this purpose, the Company shall maintain an up to date file for such employee’s requests. Once an employee is placed in a vacancy and commences to work, he shall receive the rate of that occupational classification.
9.08	(a) In cases of temporary transfers, for less that thirty (30) days (or longer period by mutual Agreement between the
Company and the Union) the employee shall retain his seniority in his original department.
9.08	(b) In all other transfers and/or promotions, which are of a permanent nature, then the employee's seniority will not transfer until the completion of thirty (30) calendar days. At the end of this period of time the transfer and/or promotion shall be permanent. Employees affected by this subsection shall retain their seniority rights applicable to their former position for the period of thirty (30) calendar days.
9.09	(a) Seniority shall continue to accrue during any period of absence on leave authorized by the Management. All leaves shall be authorized in writing on forms prescribed for that purpose, except in the case of an emergency, at which time the employees should report to the Management immediately, or as soon as circumstances permit, the reason for his absence and the employee shall, upon his return to work, prove to the satisfaction of management that an emergency condition existed. The maximum period for which leave may be granted shall be three (3) months unless extended in any particular case by agreement between the Company and the Union in writing.
9.09	(b) Pregnancy and Parental Leave shall be given in accordance with the provisions of-the Employment Standards Act, All requests for such leave should be made in writing and approval will be provided in writing by the Company to the employee. The duration of pregnancy and/or parental leave will be governed in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act.
9.10	If an employee, who has completed his probationary period is receiving sickness and /or accident benefit, or Workers' Compensation due to a major disability sustained while in the employ of the Company, the seniority provisions of the Agreement may be waived or modified by agreement between the Company and the Union.
9.11	(a) Promotion to supervisory positions shall not be subject to the provisions of the Agreement.
9.11(b) Employees transferred outside the bargaining unit shall continue to accumulate seniority rights for a period of one year from the date of transfer and in the event of their return to the bargaining unit within one year form the date of the transfer they shall be entitled to exercise their total seniority (including seniority accumulated up to a period of one year form the time of their transfer).
9..11(c) Employees may return to the bargaining unit after one year only if there is no seniority employee then on lay off, or about to be laid off, and only on condition that they return as new employees with no seniority, but with accumulated service, and who must complete the probationary period as set out in 9.01 above. When the conditions pertaining to the probationary period have been fulfilled the employees' seniority shall date back to the date of their return to the bargaining unit.
9,12	The seniority of any employee shall be lost and his employment shall be deemed to be terminated for any of the following reasons:
(a)	he quits his employment. and does not report for his next shift;
(b)	he retires;
(c)	he is discharged for just, cause and is not reinstated through the grievance and/or arbitration procedures;
(d)	he overstays a vacation or leave of absence without securing the extension of such vacation or leave of absence for his supervisor;
(e)	he utilizes a leave of absence for purposes other than those for which it was granted;
(f)	he fails to return to work immediately after the Company and the employee have been notified by the employee's doctor that the employee is able to return to his job;
(g) he fails to return to work in accordance with article 9,03
(h) he has been on lay off for a period of fifteen (15) months
ARTICLE X - WAGES
10,01	The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept the schedule of wage rates attached hereto appendix "A" which form part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
11.01	(a) The standard work week in all departments shall be forty (441) hours to be worked in five (5) days of eight (8) hours each, Monday through Friday, except for the 11:00 pm, to 7:00 a,m, shift which shall work Sunday through Thursday.
(b)	Employees will receive a paid break of thirty (30) minutes per eight (8) hour shift and such time will be paid for at their regular straight time hourly rate.
(c)	The normal hours for shifts shall be as set out in Appendix ,TB" attached to this Agreement. Except in cases of emergency, the starting and stopping times of any shifts implemented by the Company shall not be changed without prior discussion with the Union.
11.02	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may, ’at such times it deems necessary, implement a continuous seven (7) day operation for employees in the Weaving, Fibre Locker, Finishing and Spinning Departments and the Company and the Union agree that any premium pay otherwise applicable under Article XI of the Collective Agreement shall have no application to such employees so long as they continue on such operation and Article XI shall have no application.
In lieu thereof, employees_ shall be paid their regular straight time hourly rate Cor all hours worked and in addition:
1, time and one-half for all authorized hours worked in excess of eight (8) per day at the employee's regular straight time hourly rate;
2,	any shift premium applicable under Section 11,06; and
3,	an additional premium in the amount of eighty-eight cents (88 cents) for each straight time hour worked by them up to a maximum of eight (8) per day for the duration of such schedule.
It is understood, however, that there shall be no pyramiding of any premiums payable under this Article.
It is further understood that an employee required to work on his first scheduled day off (in accordance with such schedule) shall be paid time and one-half his regular straight time hourly rate for all hours worked and double his regular straight time hourly rate for all hours worked on his second scheduled day off.
11.03	While the foregoing paragraphs define the standard work week during the term of the Agreement for the employees concerned, they shall not be construed or interpreted as a guarantee by the Company of a specific number of hours of work per day or days of work per week.
11.04	(a) Except as provided in paragraph 11.04 (b) and paragraph 11.02 all authorized work performed by the employee in excess of his standard work day or standard work week shall be considered overtime and, except in the case of work performed on Sunday, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half
(I 1/2) the employee's regular hourly rate in the case of an hourly rated employee and time and one half (1 1/2) the employee's average hourly earnings, excluding overtime premium, for the current pay period in the case of a piece work rated employee. Work performed on Sunday, shall be paid for at the rate of two (2) times the employee's regular hourly rate in the case of an hourly rated employee and two (2) times the employee's average hourly earnings excluding overtime premium for the current pay period in the case of a piece work rated employee.
In no case shall an employee be paid both daily and weekly overtime for the same overtime hours. Except in cases of emergency, the Company agrees to notify an employee twenty-four (24) hours in advance when he will be required to work overtime.
(b) If, through any cause other than by Company instruction, an employee commences work after the starting time of his regular shift or as otherwise specified by the Company, overtime premium pay will not apply until after the employee has completed the equivalent of the standard number of hours for the shift. The normal hours for shifts shall be as set out in Appendix "B" attached to this Agreement.
11.05	An employee who is transferred for any reason from one shift schedule to another shift schedule and who, as a result of the transfer, works more than eight (8) hours in the twenty-four (24) hour period, will be paid at the overtime rate applicable to the extra hours so worked, However, in the event an employee so transferred loses any hours due to such transfer, he will have his straight-time hours actually worked for that week made up by the Company to forty (40) hours, and any overtime hours will not be considered as part of his forty (40) hours for that week.
11.06	Employees working on other than the regular day shift shall be entitled to a shift premium. This premium will be twenty-five (25) cents per hour for employees working on the second shift (afternoon) and thirty (30) cents per hour for employees working the third shift (night). Shift, premium payable under this section shall not be subject to the time and one-half (1 1/2) basis for overtime.
11.07	An employee who is engaged in the training and overseeing of a new employee shall be entitled to a training premium of twenty-five (25) cents per hour in addition to his regular rate of pay in the case of an hourly worker, and to his average rate of pay in the case of a pieceworker.
11.08	Not having been advised otherwise by the Company, an employee who reports for work at the commencement of his regular shift and for whom no work is available in his normal classification, shall be offered four (4) hours work in 'another classification, at his regular rate, or, at the discretion of the Management shall be paid four (4) hours pay at his regular rate in lieu thereof. However, the provision of this paragraph shall not apply in the event. of power or steam failure, fire, flood, or any other condition whatsoever beyond the control of the Company. Failure of an employee to keep the Company informed of his correct home address and telephone number, if any, shall relieve the Company of this responsibility in respect of the provisions of this paragraph as applicable to such employee.
11.09	If an emergency arises and a employee is called back to work outside his standard working hours he shall be paid time and one-half (1 1/2) his regular rate, except on Sunday when he shall be paid two (2) times his regular rate, or a minimum of four (4) hours at his regular rate, whichever is the greater.
11.10	In the case of downtime resulting from causes beyond the employee's control, the Company shall pay the employee concerned pro-rata on the basis of his average hourly earnings, excluding overtime, in respect of those machines which are stopped . The regular piece work rate will apply in respect of those machines which continue to operate. An employee's average hourly earnings excluding overtime, will be computed each four weeks and this average will be used for the following four (4) week period.
11.11	Any employee temporarily assigned to another job will receive the rate of the job to which he is transferred, or the rate of the previously filled job whichever is the higher. A temporary transfer is one of not more than thirty (30) days unless extended by mutual agreement. Employees transferred permanently to another job will receive the rate of the job to which they transferred.
11.12	An employee who accepts work in excess of his regularly assigned hours for a period of not less than two (2) hours will be allowed a paid rest period of ten (10) minutes at the rate of the overtime job (including any applicable premiums etc.). This rest period will be granted at a time as close as possible to the changeover from his regular hours to the overtime hours and it will in no way affect his normal rest and lunch periods.
11.13	(a) When an employee applies for a position under the terms of article IX clause 9,07 and is awarded the job and assigned to the work, he will be paid at a level equal to the top grade of the job as specified in appendix "A" when no training (excluding familiarization) is required.
(b) Negotiations between the Union and the Company to move an employee through the progression wage levels faster than provided for in appendix "A" shall take place at the Union's request if it feels such advancement is justified by the employee's progress on the job. Disagreements or disputes arising out of, or under the provisions of this clause shall not be subject to grievance or arbitration.
ARTICLE XII - PLANT HOLIDAYS
12,01	Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 12,02 and 12,03 below, the following Plant Holidays will be granted with pay to all employees whose, names appear on the official seniority lists:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day
Boxing Day
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day
There shall be four (4) additional plant holidays annually, the dates of which shall be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union on behalf of the employees prior to the end of the second week of December in the year preceding the year in which the holidays are to be taken. If the parties are unable to agree as required above, the Company shall unilaterally set the dates and announce them prior to the end of December in the year preceding the year in which the holidays are to be taken. In the event that new public holidays are declared by appropriate legislation to be binding upon the operation of the Company, such public holidays shall replace the holidays provided for above and this clause shall lapse and become void and of no effect.
12.02	Employees who have served their probationary period referred to in paragraph 9,01 above, will be paid for the number of hours such employees would normally have worked had there been no holiday. Hourly rated employees will be paid at their regular hourly rate and piece-work rated employees will be paid at their respective average hourly earnings excluding overtime for the regular pay period immediately preceding the plant holiday concerned.
12.03	If the holiday occurs on a Saturday or Sunday it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or next following Monday. It is understood that the observance of Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall not be interrupted by a normal working day.
12.04	In order to be eligible for Plant Holiday pay, it is understood that the employee must work the full regular shift on the declared work day immediately preceding and the full regular shift on the declared work day immediately following the Plant Holiday concerned (or on the Friday or on the Monday concerned if observed thereon), unless on authorized leave of absence due to certified sickness or an injury compensable under the Workers' Compensation Act not exceeding thirty (30) calendar days in either case, or unless his absence on either one of the declared work days is due to bereavement in his immediate family (i.e spouse, father, mother, sister, brother, child, father-in-law, mother-in-law, or grandparents).
12.05	Overtime pay at the rate specified in paragraph 11.04 above will be paid for work performed on the Plant Holidays named in paragraph 12,01 above (or on the Friday or on the Monday concerned if observed thereon). This payment will be in addition to any Plant Holiday pay to which the employee would otherwise be entitled under the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIII - VACATION WITH PAY
13,01	Subject to other provisions of this agreement as they may apply, the Company agrees that the total amount of vacation with pay due each employee shall be based on his length of continuous service with the Company as at May 31st in each year and shall be computed in accordance with the Computation of Vacation Pay Table set out below.
COMPUTATION OF VACATION PAY TABLE
Vacation With Pay
Length of Continuous Service Granted Rate of Vacation Pay
Less than 1 years service.............2 weeks 4% of employees total
earnings for work performed for the Company during the 12 months' period ending with and including the last full pay period in the month of May.
1 yr. or over but less than 7 yrs.......2 weeks
7 yrs. or over but less than 15 yrs,, 3 weeks 15 yrs. or over but less than 23 yrs,,4 weeks 23 yrs. or over but less than 28 yrs..5 weeks 28 yrs. or over.........................6	weeks
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
13,02	In addition to the vacation pay computed under section 13,01 the Company agrees that an additional amount shall be payable on or about December 15th of each year.
The amount payable is determined as defined below:
(a)	Effective July 7, 1993, $200,00 payable to each employee who has qualified for vacation pay as defined in section
13,04
Effective June 3, 1995, $250,00 payable to each employee who has qualified for vacation pay as defined in section
13,04
(b)	an additional $100,00 is payable to each employee provided that his attendance record for the preceding year (ended November 30th) is 95% or greater of the straight time hours for his regular shifts during that year.
13.03	(a) The Company will be closed for vacation purposes
for the week immediately prior to the Civic Holiday. All employees will take one week of their vacation at such time.
The second week of an employee's vacation will be taken one week prior or one week after the plant shut down. Employees who are required to remain on duty during such plant shutdown, will be permitted to take this vacation at a time mutually satisfactory to such employee and the Company,
(b)	The second week of vacation and any further weeks to which an employee may be entitled shall be scheduled as follows:
An employee shall make application to the Company on or before February 28th of each year for the date(s) he proposes. The Company will open all applications on or before March 7th of each year, and confirm such dates(s) or giving due consideration to the seniority of the employees concerned and the exigencies of the Company's business, allocate a mutually agreeable alternative vacation date, when the date(s) reguested by two or more employees are the same period.
If an employee wishes to take his 3rd/4th/5th or 6th week of vacation on or before May 7th, his application should be made to the Company at least eight (8) weeks prior to the start of the requested vacation period.
If a change in vacation date(s) is requested, such request should be made to the Company at least four (4) weeks prior to the date of the requested change. The Company will look favourably at such requests, particularly in the case of an emergency, and if possible, approve the changed vacation.
Employees will be paid for the vacation they are about to take (or for their total vacation pay due in one payment at the employees option) during the week immediately prior to its commencement and the total earnings on which vacation pay is calculated, and the percentage vacation pay to which the employee is entitled will be written on the vacation pay cheque stub.
13.04	Lost time while receiving Workers' Compensation under The Workers' Compensation Act (0ntario) or Sick benefit under the Company's hospitalization plan described herein shall, for purpose of calculating Vacation pay be computed as if the employee had been paid his full regular rate of pay during such absence. To qualify for this benefit the employee must have worked forty (40) days in the vacation year.
13.05	An employee whose service with the Company is terminated shall receive Vacation Pay €or the period to which he is entitled in accordance with the computation of Vacation Pay set out in Section 13.01.
ARTICLE XIV - SAFETY HEALTH AND BENEFITS
14.01	The Company shall make provisions for the safety and health of its employees during working hours.
14.02	The Union agrees that it will co-operate in the enforcement of safety rules and regulations.
14.03	The Company will make available for employees and their eligible dependants the opportunity to participate in the group insurance plans indicated below. It is understood that such participation is subject to the terms and conditions of the group insurance plans which will be underwritten by recognized insurance companies. It is further understood that any right to participate and be entitled to coverage under the group insurance plans below ceases immediately when an employee quits, is discharged or goes on strike subject to the provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act. Such participation and coverage shall also cease if an employee is on leave of absence or is laid off, unless otherwise provided in this agreement except that in the case of an employee on pregnancy or paternal leave participation shall continue in accordance with the requirements of the Employment Standards Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Weekly Indemnity Insurance will not cease where the Company decides that it is advisable that Weekly Indemnity cease at some later date.
(a) Life Insurance:
The Company shall pay 85% and the employee shall pay 15% of the billed premiums for group life insurance which provides coverage for all employees in the amount of $15,000.00 with an accidental death and dismemberment provision of a further $15,000.00.
Effective June 3, 1995, the amounts of coverage for the life insurance and the accidental death and dismemberment will increase to $25,000.00.
(b)	Prescription Drug Plan:
The Company shall pay 85% and the employee shall pay 15% of the billed premiums for a group prescription drug insurance plan which provides for a $0.35 deductible.
(c)	Weekly Indemnity:
The company shall pay 100% of the billed premiums for a group Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. Such plan will provide coverage for eligible employees in the amount of 2/3rds of the employee's regular weekly earnings up to a maximum of the insurable earnings as determined by the Unemployment Insurance Commission and will pay from the first day for accident, the first day hospitalized, or the eighth day sick up to twenty-six (26) weeks during any one period of disability. The benefits provided by the insurance carrier shall not be reduced by reason of a reduction in insurable earnings by the Unemployment Insurance Commission during the term of this contract.
(d)	Vision Care Plan:
The Company shall pay 100% of the billed premiums for a group vision care insurance plan. Such plan will provide up to $100.00 per person once in every two years towards the purchase of eye glasses for employees and their eligible dependants.
Effective June 3, 1995 such plan will provide an amount of $200.00 per person once in every two years towards the purchase of eye glasses for employees and their eligible dependants.
(e)	Dental Plan:
The Company will make available to its eligible employees a basic Dental Plan which will include check-ups, fillings, extractions, cleaning and scaling as outlined in the Plan document. The Plan will pay 85% of the 1993 Dental Fee Schedule and has a deductible of $25.00 single and $50.09) for family coverage per year.
Effective October 1, 1993, employees may elect to transfer coverage under the dental plan to the Blue Cross Prevention Plus Dental Plan 5 which will pay 100% of the 1993 Blue Cross Dental Fee Schedule with no amounts deductible for basic dental care as per the schedule in the Dental Plan booklet. Transfers to this coverage are open once per year during the month of July and once transfer to or from this plan has been made, it remains in effect until the following July of each year.
The Company shall pay 85% and the employee shall pay 15% of the billed premiums for the Dental Plan.
(f)	Life insurance for Retiring Employees:
The Company will contribute 100% of billed premiums towards life insurance coverage of $1,000.00 for:
i)	employees who, having completed ten (10) years of service, retire at the normal retirement date;
ii)	employees who, having completed fifteen (15) years of service, become permanently disabled as defined by Canada Pension Plan regulations:
iii)	employees who, having completed thirty (30) years of service, terminate their employment.
14.04	(a) Any contribution required by an employee towards
billed premiums pursuant to article 14.03 will be by way of payroll deduction.
(b)	The Company will contribute towards the billed premiums in connection with the group insurance plans set out in article 14.03, the balance of premiums owing after the employee's payment of his/her share of the billed premiums. It is understood that the Company's payment of its portion of the said premiums constitutes the Company's sole liability under this Article and that the Company is not the insurer.
(c)	Dividends or premium rebate accruing as a result of the group insurance will be credited to the employees insured in the group insurance in the form of a reduction of their share of the future premium payable by them.
(d)	If, as a result of the establishment of Unemployment Insurance benefits under the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1971 or its successor, and the Regulations thereto applicable to employees incapable of work by reason of illness, injury or quarantine, any savings, rebate or premium reduction of any sort are payable or granted to either the Company or its employees or both, the full amount of such savings, rebates or premium reduction shall accrue solely to the benefit of the Company notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Government legislation.
14.05	PENSION :
The Company will continue its pension plan for employees covered by this agreement as set out in the official plan document and the Letter of Understanding attached hereto.
(a)	Employees who are members of the plan will contribute 3.5% of the base straight-time earnings to the pension plan. The pension deductions will be made weekly in the amount of 3.5% of the base straight-time earnings for that week,
(b)	The annual pension accrual commencing January 1, 1991 is 1,75% of base straight-time earnings per annum.
(c)	Employees with thirty (30) or more years of service and being sixty (60) or more years of-age may elect to retire at any time thereafter with the full pension benefit credited at that time being paid without any actuarial reduction.
(d)	Employees with thirty (30) or more years of service, but being between the ages of fifty-five (55) and sixty (60) may elect early retirement with a 5% reduction per year for each year early from age sixty (60).
(e)	All other employees between the ages of fifty-five (55) and sixty-five (65) may elect early retirement with a 5% per year reduction with the credit calculated from age sixty-five (65) .
(f)	No amendments shall be made to the terms of the pension plan without first. discussing the amendments with the Union.
14.06	The company will provide to the Union office a Master copy of all insurance policies and plans, including the pension plan as and if requested except where the provision of these plans would compromise the confidentiality of employees.
14.07	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE:
An employee will be granted up to three (3) days' leave of absence at his regular hourly base rate to make arrangements for and to attend the funeral of the employee's spouse, father, mother, sister, brother, child, father-in-law, mother-in-law or grandparents. In the event that an employee does not make arrangements for and attend the funeral as indicated above, an employee will be granted one (1) day's leave of absence at his regular hourly base rate to attend the memorial service of the employee's spouse, father, mother, sister, brother, child, father-in-law, mother-in-law or grandparents. In the event of the death of an employee's mother and or father who do not reside in Canada, the employee will be granted up to three (3) day's leave of absence at his regular hourly base rate,
14.08	SAFETY SHOES:
The Company agrees that once per contract year it will provide each employee with approved safety footwear up to a maximum cost to the Company of:
i)	regular safety footwear:
ii)	all employees in maintenance must wear heavy duty safety footwear:
iii)	those employees in Finishing, handling barrels and chemicals require heavy duty footwear:
$50.00
$70.00
$79) .00
ARTICLE XV - NOTICE BOARDS
15.01	The Union shall have the right to post notices on the Company's notice boards and a notice board will be provided by the Company for posting of Union notices provided that such notices are signed by authorized officers of the Union and have been approved by Management.
ARTICLE XVI - NOTICES
16.01	Except where otherwise provided any notices which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by prepaid registered mail as follows:
To the Company:
1, General Manager
Porritts & Spencer Canada Inc P.0. Box 50, L.C.D. # 1
Hamilton, Ontario L8L 7T8
To the Union:
Regional Representative Ontario Joint Council
Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union 15 Gervais Drive Suite 700
Don Mills, Ontario M3C 1Y8
cc Recording Secretary Local 720T
16.02	Any such notice given under this Agreement shall be deemed given and received as of the business day following the date of mailing.
ARTICLE XVII - MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP
17,01	All employees coming within the scope of this Agreement who are now members of the Union shall continue to be members in good standing of the Union during the term of this agreement.
All employees coming within the scope of this Agreement who are not now members of the Union, but who become members of the Union, will continue to be members in good standing of the Union during the term of this Agreement. New employees shall make application for membership in the Union on forms furnished by the Union at the time of their hiring and shall become and remain members in good standing of the Union as soon as their probationary period has been served. If at any time, the Company requests proof of any employee's status in the Union, the Union agrees to furnish such proof,
ARTICLE XVIII - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
18.01	The Company agrees to deduct for the duration of this Agreement, union dues from the pay of those employees who have signed written authorization to do so in a form satisfactory to the Company. Such dues will be deducted from the first pay of each month and will be remitted to the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union showing the name of each employee from whose pay such deduction has been made. The Company further agrees to deduct from new employees hired after the signing date of this agreement and who have completed their probationary period an initiation fee in an amount not to exceed one month’s regular union dues and remit any sums so deducted in accordance with the foregoing to the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union showing the name of each employee from whose pay such deduction has been made.
18.02	An employee who has authorized the Company to deduct Union dues in the manner specified in the provisions of paragraph 18.01 above, shall not be entitled to cancel such authority prior to the expiration of this Agreement while he remains in the employ of the Company except during the fifteen (15) days’ period immediately preceding the expiration date of this Agreement. Such notice of cancellation shall be in writing addressed to the Company and shall become effective as of the expiration date of this Agreement.
13.03	The Company will include on each employee's T.4 the amount of union dues (excluding initiation fees and assessments) paid by him during the year being reported on.
DURATION AND MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE XIX
19.01	This agreement shall continue in effect until
May 30, 1996, and shall continue automatically thereafter for annual periods of one (1) year each unless either party notifies the other in writing in not less than sixty (60) days and not more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date that it desires to amend or terminate the Agreement.
19.02	Negotiations shall begin within fifteen (15) days following notification for amendment as provided in the preceding paragraph.
19.03	If, pursuant to negotiations, an agreement on the renewal or amendment of this agreement is not reached prior to the current expiration date, this Agreement shall continue until a renewal thereof or a new Agreement is consummated or until the provisions of the collective agreement are no longer binding on the parties thereto in accordance with The Labour Relations Act R.S.O. 1980 c,232, as amended, whichever should first occur.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be signed by ips duly authorized representatives as of the
/£#■day of
PORRITTS & SPENCER C,
Walter Hargreaves H, E. Standish
DA INC.
THE AMALGAMATED CLOTHING
AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, AFL-CIO, CLC,^LCrCAL 720T
Rita Henderson	'—
Barbara Williams
Brian Guitar Bonnie Stoneman
ONTARIO JOINT COUNCIL
Norman Younger Regional Representative
PORRITTS & SPENCER CANADA INC.
SCHEDULE OF HOURLY PAY RATES
FOR TWE UNION CONTRACT EFFECTIVE JUNE1, 1993 TO JUNE 1996 RATIB .D JULY 7, 1993
SCHEDULE OF CLASSIFICATION, JOB LEVEL AND JOB LEVEL PAY
---------HOURLY RATES = = = = = = = :
CLASS IFICATION	DESCRIPTION	JOB LEVEL PAY RATES PAY RATESPAY EQUITY
JUNE 1/93 MAY 29/94 JUNE 3/95 $0.15	$0.16	$0.40
A	Maint/Equip Mech 14
B	Loom Fixer	13
14.68	14.84	15.24
14.32	14.48	14.88
C
D
E
F
G
H
Weaver H/C Operator Material Handler Inspector Yarn Prep Operat Labourer
12	13.96
10	13.23
10	13.23
10	13.23
7	12.04
4	10.84
14.12	14.52
13.39	13.79
13.39	13.79
13.39	13.79
12.20	12.60
11100	11.40
SCHEDULE OF JOB LEVELS AND PAY RATES
JOB	PAY RATES ’PAY RATESPAY EQUITY
LEVEL	JUNE 1/93 MAY 29/94 JUNE 3/95
$0.15	$0.16	$0.40
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
14.68
14.32
13.96
13.60
13.23
12.83
12.43
12.04 11.65
11.24
10.84
10.44
10.04 9.64
14.84
14.48
14.12
13.76
13.39 12.99
12.59 12.20 11.80
11.40
11.00
10.60 10.20
9.80
15.24
14.88
14.52
14.16
13.79
13.39 12.99 12.60 12.20
11.80
11.40 11.00 10.60 10.20
PQRRXTTS & SPENCER CANADA INC.
SCHEDULE OF HOURLY PAY RATES
FOR TirR UNION CONTRACT EFFECTIVE JUNEl, 1993 TO JUNE 1996 RATIi JD JULY 7, 1993 SCHEDULE OF JOB CLASS AND JOB LEVELS
(Job Rate for Job Class underlined)
JOB CLASS	JOB LEVELS
A Maint/Equip Mech
B Loom Fixer C Weaver D M/C Operator E Material Handler F Inspector G Yarn Prep Opaeat H Labourer
Employees appointed or hired below the job rate shall progress to the next job level upon successful completion of the probationary or 4 month trial period and continue progression to the next job level every 6 calendar months subject to satisfactory performance only, until the job rate is reached.
Job Class and Premium Pay
(l'lead Hand	$0.80
(2)	Ontario Trade Certification	$1.28
(3)	Journeyman Electrician	$l,a5
2	3
2	3
4
4
5
5
5
5
5
5
6
6
6
6
6
6
7
7
7
7
7
7
8	9	10	11	12	13
8	9	10	11	12
8	9	10
8	9	10
8	9	10
APPENDIX "B"
PORRITTS S SPENCER CANADA INC.
First Shift Second Shift Third Shift
7:00 a.m. 3:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m.
Pomitts & Spencer Canada Inc.
PRESS FABRICS DIVISION 240 Lottridge Street, Hamilton, Ontario L8L 6V9 PO. Box 50, L.C.D. 1, Hamilton, Ontario L8L 7T8 Phone: (905) 547-9110 Fax: (905) 544-3157
July 7 , 1993
Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union AFL-CIO,CLC, Local 720T
Attention: Mr, N, Younger c,c, Rita Henderson
Dear Mr, Younger:
RE: Letter of Understanding Weekend Shift
Notwithstanding any other provision in the Collective Agreement, the parties agree that the Company may implement weekend shifts on the following terms:
1)	The "Weekend Shift" will consist of three 12 hour shifts,
either days or nights, over three days over a regular work week as follows:
i)
Sunday:
Day Shift:	7:00 a.m.
Night Shift: 7:00 p.m.
to 7:00 p,m,
to 7:00 a.m.
(Monday Morning)
ii )
Friday:
Day Shift:	7:00 a.m.
Night Shift: 7:00 p.m.
to 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(Saturday Morning)
i i i)
ISO 9001
certificate number92522 num^ro de certificat 92522 CGSB (Canadian General Standards Board) ONGC (Officedesnormes generalesdu Canada)
Saturday:
Day S h i ft:	7:00 a.m.
Night Shift: 7:00 p.m.
to 7:00 p.m, to 7:00 a.m.
(29)
(Sunday Morning)
2)	Pay Rate: An employee assigned to a Weekend Shift will be paid the regular straight time rate for the appropriate job level for all hours worked plus a premium of l/9th on the regular straight time rate for all hours worked and a premium of $0,25 per hour for all hours worked. No other premiums, bonuses or other payment will be payable in connection with this shift.
3)	Overtime: An employee who is working a weekend shift in any
work week, who is required to work one or more scheduled days off during that work week will be paid double the regular straight time hourly rate for all hours worked on his first scheduled day off, and time and one half the regular straight time hourly rate for all hours worked on his second, third and fourth scheduled day off.
4)	Statutory Holidays:
i)	An employee assigned to work a Weekend Shift shall be
entitled to all	paid Statutory Holidays noted	in	the
Collective Agreement, it being understood that the Statutory Holiday pay will	be	comprised of 8 hours of pay	at	the
straight time hourly rate. However, if a Statutory Holiday falls on one of	the	three scheduled work days	for	the
weekend shift -	(As	noted above: Sunday, Friday,	or
Saturday) - there shall be no loss of wages and in this case, the Statutory Holiday pay will be the normal pay for the 12 hour shift
ii)	If a Statutory Holiday falls on one of the three regular
scheduled work days (Sunday, Friday or Saturday) on the weekend shift and the employee is required to work on that day without, another day off in lieu of the Statutory Holiday, the rate of pay for the day shall be one and one half the regular straight time hourly rate for all hours worked plus the premium calculated as in paragraph 2 above.
iii)	If a Statutory Holiday falls on a day other than one of the three regular scheduled work days (Sunday, Friday or Saturday) on the weekend shift, then the employee who qualifies for this Statutory Holiday will be paid 8 hours at the regular straight. time hourly rate.
(30)
ISO 9001
certificate number92522 num6ro de certificat 92522 CGSB (CanadianGeneral Standards Board) ONGC (Officedes normes g6n6rales du Canada)
same
5. General:	Apart, from the foregoing, in all other
circumstances, the collective agreement applies in the manner as it does to all other employees.
Dated at Hamilton, Ontario on
Porritts & Spencer Canada Inc.
W. Hargreaves
H.E. Standish
The Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union. AFL-CIO, CLC, Local 720T
Ontario Joint Council
Bonnie Stoneman
—f	x—•' -	Yk Vj\X CttV'
Norman Younger Regional Representative.
(31)
ISO 9001
certificate number92522 num6ro decertificat 92522 CGSB (Canadian General Standards Board) ONGC (Officedes normes g6n6ra!es du Canada)
r i EiLJEl
Porrltts & Spencer Canada Inc
PRESS FABRICS DIVISION 240 Lottridge Street, Hamilton, Ontario L8L 6V9 RO. Box 50, L.C.D, 1, Hamilton, Ontario L8L 7T8 Phone: (905) 547-9110 Fax: (905) 544-3157
July 7, 1993
Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union AB'L-CIO, CLC, Local 720T
Attention: Mr, N, Younger 0,0, Rita Henderson Dear Mr, Younger:
RE: Letter of Understanding for the
Contract Period June 1, 1993 to May 30, 1996
The Company will continue the pension plan and amend the pension plan document as follows:
The Company will pay the minimum of Past Service spread payments and Current Service cast payments (percent of Employee Contributions) as set out in the triennial actuarial report. However, as permitted by the Law, the Company may supplement these minimum payments up to the total Past Service liability outstanding at any time.
Accordingly, there is scope to contribute greater amounts to the Plan each year and to leave the Par Bonus and Non-vested Termination Credits in the Fund. The actuarial valuation, every three years, will eventually reveal the time when the agreed deposits, set out below, will exceed the maximum required deposits allowed by the Law at which time the plan benefits (after discussion with the Union) will be retroactively improved, in order to allow contributions to remain at the agreed level.
The cast for administration of the Plan will be paid from the Fund.
(32)
ISO 9001
certificate number92522 numero decertificat 92522 CGSB (Canadian General Standards Board) ONGC (Office desnormes generalesdu Canada)
Contributions to the Pension Fund are to be made as follows:
The Company contributions remain at 246% (8.6%/3.5%) of the Employee pay-rol1 deductions.
The Employee contributions remain at 3.5% of pay-troLL as defined in article 14,05	(a) of the collective agreement
noted above.
The Company agrees to continue to contribute to the pension plan at this level until December 1996. It should be noted that the current Union Agreement is open to negotiations in May 1996.
Effective January 1, 1993 the plan will be amended for settlements effective after July 7, 1993 so that the pension accrued under the plan will be upgraded to 1.75% of the average of the 1990, 1991 and 1992 for all credited pensionable service in the plan as at January 1, 1993.
Porritts & Spencer Canada Inc,
Walter Hargreaves H, E. Starvdish
The Amalgamated Clothing and Texti1^Workers Union, AFL-CIO, CLC, Local 720T
Barbara
Wi 11 iams ‘ hdti-a a*


Bonnie Stoneman
Ontario Joint Council
Norman Younger Regional Representative
(33)
ISO 9001
certificate number92522 num6ro de certificat 92522 CGSB (CanadianGeneral Standards Board) ONGC (Officedesnormes g£n6rales du Canada)
Porrltts & spencer Canada Inc.
PRESS FABRICS DIVISION 240 Lottridge Street, Hamilton, Ontario L8L 6V9 RO. Box 50, L.C.D. 1, Hamilton, Ontario L8L 7T8 Phone: (905)547-9110 Fax: (905)544-3157
July 7, 1993
Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union AFL-CIO, CLC, Local 720T
Attention: Mr, N, Younger C.C, Rita Henderson Dear Mr, Younger:
RE: Red Circle Rates
The Pay Equity Plan signed June 16, 1993, Item I (5), stated that the red ciried rate administration was to be addressed at the next Collective agreeement negotiating session.
The terms regarding the administration of Red Circled rates are as follows:
1) During the Contact peroid June 1, 1993 to May 30, 1996, the increases for those whose rates are redcicled will receive the following adjustment to the hourly rate in the collective agreement which terminated June 1, 1993
June 1, 1993 May 29, 1994
June 3, 1995
$0.10 cents per hour $0.10 cents per hour $0,20 cents per hour (34)
ISO 9001
certificate number 92522 numero de certificat 92522 CGSB (CanadianGeneral Standards Board) ONGC (Officedesnormes generates du Canada)
2) Thereafter, the redcircle rate will be adjusted at one half (1/2) the amount of the rate increase for each job class negotiated in each subsequent period.
3) The redcircled rates and the policy of adjusting them will remain in effect until the regular rate for the Job Class reaches the Redcircled rate for that Job Class at which time the policy for adjusting redcircled rates will no longer apply.
Porritts & Spencer Canada Inc.
Walter Hargreaves
H, E. Standish
The Amalgamated Clothing and Tex AFL-CIO, CLG, Local 720T
Rita Henderson^
Brian Guitar
Barbara	Bonnie Stoneman
Ontario Joint Council
Norman Younger Regional Representative
(35)
ISO 9001
certificate number92522 numdro de certificat 92522 CGSB (Canadian General Standards Board) ONGC (Office des normes gdndrales du Canada)