COATS PATQNS
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES
AFL-CIO, CLC LOCAL @33
EFFECTIVE DATES JULY 1,1997 to
APRIL 30, 2000
opeiu/343/lf
TABLE OF CONTENTS COATS PATONS
ARTICLE	1	- PURPOSE		OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE	2	- BARGAINING		AGENCY . ,
ARTICLE	3	- MANAGEMENT		RIGHTS . .
ARTICLE	4	- DISCIPLINE	AND DISCHARGE	
ARTICLE		5 -	STEWARDS .	
ARTICLE	6	- GRIEVANCE		PROCEDURE .
ARTICLE 7 -ARBITRATION ..	.	.
ARTICLE 8-WAGES .................................
ARTICLE 9	- TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE .	,
ARTICLE 10 - HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, WAITING TIME, REPORTING TIME, REST PERIODS & SHIFT PREMIUMS .
SCHEDULE “B"	- HOURS OF WORK
ARTICLE 11 - HOLIDAYS,...........................
ARTICLE 12 - VACATION WITH PAY ..................
ARTICLE 13-SENIORITY ............................
ARTICLE 14 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE ...................
ARTICLE 15 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS ...............
ARTICLE 16 - NO DISCRIMINATION or INTIMIDATION ..
1
1
2
3
5
7
9
11
13
14 16 19 21 25
32
33
34
ARTICLE 17 - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES AND MAINTENANCE
OR MEMBERSHIP ,...........................34
ARTICLE 18	- BULLETIN BOARDS ,	.	,	,	35
ARTICLE 19 - WELFARE & SAFETY ..................... 36
ARTICLE 20 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT. ................^0
SCHEDULE “A” Tl^p R^TED Cl ASSIFICATIONfi
DRAWING/SPINNING DEPARTMENTS ............ 42
TWISTING/REELING DEPARTMENTS .............45
DYEHOUSE DEPARTMENT .	.	48
FINISHING DEPARTMENT......................51
ROSELAWN AVENUE BULK PACK/RECEIVING 57
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT ....................60
SHADE CARD DEPARTMENT ................... 63
IRON STREET DISTRIBUTION CENTRE 64
MAINTENANCE...............................67
This Agreement entered into as of the 1st day of July 1,1997
BETWEEN
COATS PATONS, 1001 Roselawn Ave., Toronto hereinafter referred to as “The Company” of the first part
AND
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES, LOCAL 836
hereinafter referred to as the “Union” of the second part.
ARTICI F 1 - PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
1,01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to provide means for operation of the plant in a manner which will further in all possible ways, the welfare and the safety of employees, betterment and quality of the product, economy of manufacture and the quantity of output all to the mutual interest and advantage of the Employees and the Company. Furthermore it is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement shall promote and improve the relationships between the Company and the Employees and shall establish an understanding covering hours of work, rates of pay, and conditions of employment.
Where the masculine pronoun is used in this Agreement it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context so applies.
ARTICLE 7 - BARGAINING AGENCY
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive Collective
Bargaining Agency with respect to all matters properly arising under this
2
Agreement for all its employees in or about its mill or premises in The Metropolitan Toronto, or surrounding areas, save and except:
Supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors, persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four hours per week. Stationary Engineers, regularly employed as such for more than twenty-four hours per week, Office Staff and Homeknitters.
For the purpose of negotiating, the Company agrees to the recognition of a committee of not more than 5 (five) employees having at least 1 (one) year of seniority, together with a representative of the National Organization of the Union. The Union agrees that, no more’ than 2 (two) members of the Committee will be representatives of one occupational group.
2.02	Supervisors and employees in the exempt classifications will not
normally do the work of their regular employees except for purpose of instruction, emergencies or when regular employees are not available.
2.03	The wages of the Negotiating Committee will be maintained.
2.04	The Company continues to recognize a Union/Management Executive Committee which will meet as necessary to discuss problems that may arise pertaining to this Collective Agreement.
The Committee will consist of no more than 5 (five) ■members of the Union Executive Committee, having at least 1 (one) year of seniority, and no more than 5 (five) persons representing the Company. The Union agrees that no more than 2 (two) members will be representatives of 1 (one) occupational group.
ARTICLE 3 ■ MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the
Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency:
3
(b> Hire, lay-off, discharge, classify, direct, transfer, promote, demote and suspend or otherwise discipline employees, subject to the provisions of this Agreement and employees and/or Union's right to grieve and:
(c) Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and, without restricting the generality ofthe foregoing to determine the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacture, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, process of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials . and parts to be incorporated in the products produced, the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations and. all other matters concerning the operation of the Company's business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Agreement.
The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICI F 4 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
4.01	The Company reserves the right to discharge an employee for any just cause, including, but not being restricted to the following reasons.
Incompetency, insubordination, absence without leave, smoking in prohibited areas, drunkenness, drinking intoxicating liquors while on duly, taking or being under the influence of illegal drugs while on duty, endangering his own safety or the safety of a fellow employee, stealing or otherwise removing any property from the premises illegally.
A “Notice of Discharge” shall be given to the employee in writing and one copy will be made available to the Union Steward concerned. The Company however, in cases where the offence does not warrant immediate release, will first issue a “Notice of Warning”. This notice will also be in writing and a copy will be given to the Union Steward concerned.
4
4.02	The Union will not question the non confirmation or dismissal of any
probationary employee, nor shall such non confirmation or dismissal be the subject of a grievance. However, if the dismissed employee has worked for a period of at least 4 (four) complete weeks, the Company agrees to meet with the probationary employee and a representative of the Union.
4.03	A claim by a permanent employee. who has allegedly been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Personnel Department of the Company within 5 (five) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company, and steps 1 and 2 of Article 6, Grievance Procedure will be omitted in such cases.
4.04	Such special grievance may be settled under the Grievance Procedure ' by:
{a) Confirming the Management's action in dismissing the permanent employee.
(b)	Re-instating the employee with full compensation for time lost.
(c)	Or by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
4.05	A disciplined employee, on request, shall have the right of access of his Union before leaving the plant.
4.05	Should an employee who is a member of the bargaining unit be absent from work due to sickness or injury that is non work-related, the Company will ensure that seniority will be maintained for a period equal to his seniority up to a maximum of 15 (fifteen) months. However, the employee must supply the Company with regular medical progress reports indicating:
(a) that the employee will be able to return to his regular job, and:
{b) expected return to work date.
If the employee fails to cooperate with the Company in obtaining the above data, a letter of termination may be issued in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
4.07 (a) All records of disciplinary action for lateness and/or absenteeism only, will not be used against an employee, provided nine (9) months has elapsed since the last disciplinary action was formally recorded.
<b) Records of disciplinary action for:
3 (three) years have lapsed since the last disciplinary action was formally recorded.
(ii) Verbal and Written Warnings;
2 (two) years have lapsed since the last disciplinary action was formally recorded.
ARTICLE S - STEWARDS
5.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select stewards in accordance with the following representation based as nearly as possible on the numerical size of each department and to further appoint or otherwise select from amongst the stewards one who will act as, and perform the functions of a Chief Steward.
DEPARTMENT OR SECTION	NUMBER OF STEWARDS
Spinning, Drawing, Reeling and Twisting Departments	2
6
DEPARTMENT OR SECTION	NUMBER OF STEWARDS
Dyehouse Department	1
Finishing Department, Winding, Yarn Printing, Brushing, Balling, Pull Skein and Steaming Sections	1
Finishing Department, Accumulators, Packing, Overprinting, General (Jobbers, Clerical, Material Handlers) Sections	1
Finishing Department, Sewings and Crafts, Roselawn Avenue Bulk Pack/Receiving/Section	1
Inspection and Shade Cards Departments	1
Iron Street Distribution Centre	1
Maintenance Department (Maintenance General Services, Machinery Maintenance and Carpenters)	1
All Departments (Chief Steward)	1
5.02	An employee will not be eligible to serve as a steward unless he has
had 1 (one) or more years' continuous service with the Company. Furthermore, a steward must be an employee in the department or occupational group he represents. The Union undertakes to notify the Company in writing of the names of the stewards and the department or sections each represents and of any changes in the personnel of the steward which may be made from time to time before the Company shall be required to recognize them.
5.03	Stewards shall be free to discharge their duties without fear that their relations with the Company may be affected in any way. Moreover, the Company agrees to compensate stewards for all time spent in the
7
servicing of grievances, when they would otherwise be at work, provided they strictly adhere to the following requirements:
(1)	Will not absent themselves from their regular work unreasonably in order to deal with the grievances of employees.
(2)	Will not enter a department where a grievance has been reported without informing the supervisor' of that department of their presence and the person they wish to consult.
(3)	Will not absent themselves from their regular work without first obtaining permission of their supervisor. Likewise when resuming their regular work will report to their supervisor and if requested advise which department they have visited. Permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Steward shall be free to solicit new members on the Company's premises provided such solicitation does not take place during working hours. '
5.04	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Grievance Committee. An employee will not be eligible to serve as a member of the Grievance Committee unless he has had 1 (one) or more years' continuous service with the Company. Members shall be allowed time off when it is found necessary to meet with the Management and will be compensated for time so spent when they would otherwise be at work. However, not more than 3 (three)
. members of the Grievance Committee will meet with Management at any one time. The Union agrees that no more than 1 (two) members will be representatives of 1 (one) occupational group.
ARTICI F 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	A grievance is defined as a difference between the Company and the Union or an employee as to the interpretation of, or application of, or
8
compliance with the terms and conditions of this Collective Agreement. No grievance shall be considered:
(a)	Where the circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated more than 7 (seven) working days before filing of the grievance.
(b)	Unless the employee or group of employees has given their immediate supervisora reasonable opportunity of adjusting same.
STEP NO. 1:
An employee having a grievance shall first submit it orally or in writing to his supervisor and shall be accompanied by his union steward. The supervisor shall deal with the grievance and deliver his answer orally or in writing to the grievor within 2 (two) working days after receipt of the grievance.
STEP NO. 2:
If the decision of the supervisor is not satisfactory it may be appealed in writing to the manager concerned, or other person designated by the Company, by the steward within 2 (two) working days following the decision of the supervisor. The manager will deal with the grievance and render his decision in writing to the grievor within 2 (two) working days following the day upon which he received the grievance.
STEP NO. 3:
If the decision of the manager is not satisfactory, the grievance may be taken up within 7 (seven) full working days at a meeting between the Grievance Committee and the Company’s Human Resources Manager. Either party may request the presence of the grievor at this meeting.
Nothing stated in the foregoing shall preclude the right of the Union to have a permanent representative of the National Organization present or the Company from having its own special representative present at
9
the negotiations between the Human Resources Manager and the Grievance Committee or between the President of the Company or any other person or persons designated by him and the Grievance Committee.
The Human Resources Manager shall give his written decision not later than 10 (ten) working days following the date on which the Step No. 3 meeting was held.
If the decision of the Human Resources Manager is not acceptable to the grievor, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration as provided in Article 7. If notice to proceed to arbitration is not received within 10 (ten) working days following the date of the Human Resources, Manager's decision, the grievance will be considered to have been settled or abandoned.
In the case of a permanent employee who feels that he has been unjustly discharged, Article 4.03 of the Collective Agreement shall apply.
6.02	Any difference arising directly between the Union and the Company
relating to violations, interpretations and applications of the Agreement shall be processed under the provisions of this Article and shall be initiated at Step. No. 3.
6.03	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to grieve on behalf of
individual employees.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
7.01	When either party requests that any matter be submitted to arbitration as hereinafter provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement and at the same time nominate an arbitrator. Within 5 (five) working days thereafter, the other party shall nominate an arbitrator. The two arbitrators so nominated shall meet immediately and if within 3 (three) working days they fail to settle the
10
grievance, they shall attempt to select by agreement a third person to be a member and Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree upon such a Chairman within a further period of two working days, they may then request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario to assist them in selecting a Chairman, provided that the Chairman shall be selected from other than the Civil Service and shalt be chosen having regard to his impartiality, his qualifications in interpreting Collective Bargaining Agreements and his familiarity with Industrial Relations.
In determining any grievance arising out of discharge or other discipline, the Arbitration Board may dispose of the claim by affirming the Company's action and dismissing the grievance or by setting aside the disciplinary action involve-d and restoring the grievor to his former position with or without compensation or in such other manner as may in the opinion of the Arbitration Board be justified.
No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
The Arbitration Board, shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the Chairman of such Board will be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of the arbitrator
appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the expense, if any, of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
7.02	In the event that both parties agree not to use 7.01, then they will agree to a simplified procedure in which a single Arbitrator is appointed who
11
will have all of the powers otherwise ascribed herein to an Arbitration Board.
8.01	The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept during the life of this Agreement, the basic time work rates per classification set out in Schedule “A” which is attached and forms part of this Agreement.
8.02a)	EFFECTIVE	JULY 1ST, 1997:
Effective July 1st, 1997 and retroactive, a wage increase of thirty ($0.30) cents will be paid all classifications.
Retroactive pay will be calculated on the number of hours paid from July 1st, 1997 and by separate cheque.
b)	EFFECTIVE	JULY 1ST, 1998:
Effective July 1st, 1998, a wage increase of thirty ($0.30) cents will be paid	all classifications.
c)	EFFECTIVE	JULY 1ST, 1999:
Effective July 1st, 1999, a wage increase of twenty-five ($0.25) cents will be paid all classifications.
d)	The Company will retain ‘a Group Bonus for the Dyehouse employees, skilled Maintenance, Spinning and Drawing employees with details to be changed or adjusted when necessary by the Company.
8.03	Since employment is dependent upon the demand for the Company's products, the parties hereto recognize the importance of attaining and maintaining maximum employee efficiency and productivity and of
continual progress in the development of improved manufacturing methods to meet customer requirements on a competitive basis.
12
(D When an existing job is to be changed or a new job is to be created the Company will discuss with the Union the changed job or rate before establishing them. In the event agreement is not reached on the rate, the Union shall have the right to grieve, under paragraph 6.01 of this Agreement, against such rate, with final referral to a single Arbitrator whose decision will be binding on both parties. Any adjustment shall be made as of the date the changed rate was first implemented by the Company.
(2) When an existing job is or is to be established, or an existing job is changed, which cannot be properly placed in an existing classification by mutual agreement, management will establish a classification and rate on a temporary basis. Written notification of the temporary rate and classification will be furnished to the Union President. The new rate and classification shall be considered temporary for a period of thirty (30) calendar days following the date of notification to the Union President.
During this period (but not thereafter) the Union President may request the Company to negotiate the rate and the classification for the new job. The negotiated rate, if higher than the temporary rate, shall be applied retroactively to the date of the establishment of the temporary classification and rate. If no request has been made by the Union President to negotiate the rate within the thirty (30) calendar day period the temporary rate and classification shall become part of the wage scale.
If the Company and the Union are unable to agree on a rate and classification for the new job or existing job that has been changed, the disputed rate and/or classification may be treated as a grievance and referred to arbitration under Article 7.02. If
13
the Arbitrator sets the new rate higher than the temporary rate it shall be applied.retroactively to the date of the establishment of the temporary rate and classification.
8.05 When an employee is temporarily assigned to another job for the convenience of the Company, he will receive the rate for the job to which he is transferred or the rate of the previously held job -whichever is higher.
ARTICLE 9 - TECHNQI OGICAI CHANGE
9.01	In the event of technological change, including the installation of new mechanical electronic, or automated equipment that will affect the job status of any employee in the Bargaining Unit, the Company will:
(a)	As far in advance as possible before the installation of such equipment, meet with the Union Committee and provide the Committee with data regarding the proposed date of installation, number and classification of employees likely to be affected by it, and:
(b)	Provide adequate training facilities in the operation of such
equipment, so that the senior displaced employees will have the opportunity to qualify for such new jobs created by the installation of the equipment.
(c)	In the case of other employees who may be displaced by the
•	equipment and for whom there is no work available in the
department concerned, the Company wilt arrange for transfers to other departments or occupations to which he has been transferred. Department Seniority will be applied as in 13.04.
(d)	Failure on the part of the Company to offer employment as outlined in (c) will result in a displacement wage being paid to such, employees, The displacement wage shall be an amount equivalent to one weeks earnings for each full year of the
14
employee's continuous service with the Company. However, failure on the part of the employee to accept employment in another department or occupation on the terms outlined in (c) relieves the Company of its obligation to pay a displacement wage.
9.02	In the event of dispute arising out of this provision, the matter shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
ARTICLE 10 - HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME, WAITING TIME, REPORTING TIME. REST PERIODS & SHIFT PREMIUMS
10.01	Attached to and forming part of this Agreement is Schedule "B" which is a schedule of the hours of work, starting and quitting times.
10.02a) OVERTIME: Overtime will be on a voluntary basis but employees are expected to co-operate and perform overtime when asked to do so by the Company, Notice of overtime work will be given, if possible, twenty-four (24) hours prior to such work being performed, except in cases of emergency.
b)	Overtime will be offered equally amongst employees with appropriate skills and competence in the same seniority group, It is understood that employees who agree to work pre-scheduled overtime and who do not fulfill their commitment, without a reason acceptable to the Company, will not be considered when subsequent pre-scheduled overtime schedules are prepared, unless no qualified substitutes can be found.
c)	All authorized work performed by an employee in excess of eight (8) hours per shift and forty (40) hours per week shall be considered overtime and remunerated at time and one-half an employee’s’ regular hourly rate.
15
Work performed on a Saturday or Sunday is also classified as overtime, with exception of Saturday and Sunday work associated with regular shifts as defined in Schedule "B".
d)	Furthermore, authorized work performed on Saturday will be
considered overtime remunerated at time and one-half and any work performed on a Sunday, which has been specifically scheduled by the Company, will be remunerated at double time. However, where Sunday work is performed by an employee because, for personal reasons, he was unable to work on a Saturday, the overtime rate of time and one-half will apply.
e)	Employees who are requested and work more than three (3) hours overtime in any working day will be entitled to a half-hour rest period. Employees will be paid for fifteen (15) minutes of this rest period at time and one-half. This applies only to those employees who actually take the rest period and punch their time card accordingly.
f)	Employees who work overtime for three or more hours on a particular shift will be eligible for a six ($6.00) dollar meal allowance if the request for the overtime is not received prior to the commencement of the shift.
g)	When an employee is called in by the Company for overtime work he shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours work and be paid at the regular overtime rate of time and one-half or double time for Sunday.
16
SCHEDULE“B» - RS OF WORK
DEPARTMENT
Draw to Reel and Finishing
SHIFT
HOURS OF WORK
7:00 am to 3:20 pm
3:05 pm to 11:20 pm
11:05 pm to 11:20 am 11:05 pm to 7:15 am
11.05 am to 11:20 pm
11:05 pm to 7:15 am
7:00 am to 3:30 pm 3;00 pm to 11:30 pm 11:00 pm to 7:30 am
DAYS
Mon to Fri
Mon to Fri
Saturday Sun to Tues
Sunday Wed to Fri
Mon to Fri Mon to Fri Mon to Fri
TOTAL
HOURS!
40
40
36 paid for 38
36 paid for 38
40
40
Inspection
7:00 am to 3:30 pm 3:00 pm to 11:30 pm
Mon to Fri Mon to Fri
40
40
Shade Card
B:00 am to 4:30 pm
Mon to Fri
40
“Iron Street
"Maintenance General Set-vices
B:00 am to 4:30 pm
Mon to Fri
40
7:00 am to 3:30 pm
Mon to Fri
40
2
17
				TOTAL
DEPARTMENT	SHIFT	HOURS OF WORK	DAYS	HOURS|
**Machinery	1	7:00 am to 3:30 pm	Mon to Fri	40
Maintenance	2	3:00 pm to 11:30 pm	Mon to Fri	40
	3	11:05 pm to 7:15 am	Saturday	
		11:05 pm to 7:15am	Sun to	36 paid
			Tues	for 38
	4	11:05 pm to 7:15am	Sunday	
		11:05 pm to 7:15 am	Wed to Fri	36 paid for 38
Some employees in these departments may have different starting and quitting times than those stated above and these times will be deemed to be the normal starting and quitting times for those
involved.
10.03	CLEANING TIME: The Company and the Union recognize the importance of quality and good housekeeping. Allowance for cleaning will be made for between batch, daily, weekly and
preventive maintenance cleaning in keeping with the materials being run and the type of machine operation.
10.04a) WAITING TIME: Where, due to breakdowns, power failure, lack of work or other unforeseen circumstances, production is temporarily interrupted, but employees are required to remain “waiting” on the premises, such “waiting time” will be compensated for at their regular rates of pay.
b) If an employee who has completed his probationary period is transferred to other work in lieu of layoff, he will be paid the rate of a General Jobber, provided that his rate at the time of transfer is
18
higher than the General Jobber rate, otherwise his rate will be at the learning rate for the job.
10.05a) REPORTING TIME: Unless he has been advised by the Company not to report, an employee who reports for work at the commencement of his regular shift and for whom no work is available in his normal classification shall be paid the equivalent of four (4) hours' work at his regular rate provided that if requested by the Company the employee shall perform available work to which he may be assigned, and further provided that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply in the event of power or steam failure, fire, flood or any other conditions whatsoever beyond the control of the Company.
b)	Failure of an employee to keep the Company informed of his correct home address and telephone number, if any, shall relieve the Company of the responsibility to provide work or make payment in lieu of such work as provided for in the provisions of the paragraph above.
c)	An employee who has been absent from work for any reason and fails to advise the Company within twenty-four (24) hours prior to his returning to work will not be allowed to work the shift if the Company has scheduled another employee to fill his position for that shift, nor will the employee involved be compensated under Article 10.05a) Reporting Time.
10.06	LUNCH PERIODS:	Every employee at work for 8 1/2 hours is
allocated one-half hour unpaid lunch period per shift. However, when agreement is reached between the Company and the Union to reduce the time at work to less than 8 1/2 hours the lunch period is reduced accordingly. Lunch periods will be staggered as required.
10.07	REST PERIODS:	Every employee will be allowed two (2) ten (10)
minute rest periods during their shift. Where employees and the Company have agreed to a reduced lunch period as in 10.06 above,
19
one of the ten (10) minute rest periods may be added to the lunch period.
Where machines do not require constant attention of operators the machines will remain running. The operator will be expected to take his rest period at a time when a fellow employee is available to release him from the machine.
10.08	SHIFT PREMIUMS:
a)	A shift premium of twenty-eight ($0.28) cents per hour will be paid to employees on the second shift.
b)	A shift premium of thirty-eight ($0.38) cents per hour will be paid to employees working on the third and fourth shifts.
ARTICLE 11 - HOLIDAYS
11.01	The following holidays shall
New Year's Eve Good Friday Victoria Day Civic Holiday Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Paternity Day
be observed as paid statutory holidays:
New Year's Day Easter Monday Canada Day Labour Day Christmas Eve Boxing Day Citizenship Day (for new Canadians)
11.02	Subject to the qualifications outlined in 11.03, employees will be paid for statutory holidays at their regular rate of pay.
11.03	An employee will only be entitled to payment for these holidays if he has completed the probationary period and must attend for the declared working day immediately preceding the holiday and report
20
back within 30 (thirty) minutes after the start of operations on the declared working day immediately following the holiday.
11.04	For the purpose of 11.03 an employee shall not be deemed absent from work when he is required by law for jury duty, court witness, reserve army training, nor when absent for sickness if verified by first aid, employee's own supervisor or by doctor's note, nor when temporarily laid-off provided the employee has been at work at any time during the 5 (five) working days immediately preceding the holiday or has been recalled and reports for work within 30 (thirty) minutes after the start of operations on the declared working day immediately following the holiday.
Employees who are eligible for Sick Benefit payments based on supplying the Company with a medical certificate and employees who are in receipt of Sick Benefit payments will be paid for statutory holidays at the Sick Benefit rate only.
11.05	Where a holiday falls on a day when the plant is not normally operating (i.e. Saturday and Sunday) the plant will close the following Monday or preceding Friday at the Company's option.
11.06	Employees normally required to work on a holiday can elect to take one or the other of the following options.
(a)	Be paid overtime rate of time-and-one-half and be allowed a day off with pay at a later date.
(b)	Forfeit the holiday and receive overtime rates of time-and-one-half for all hours worked plus a normal day's pay in lieu of the holiday.
11.07	Employees who are not normally required to work on a holiday but who, due to an emergency or other unforeseen circumstances are required to do so, can elect to take one or the other of the following options.
21
(a)	Be paid the overtime rate of- time-and-one-half and be allowed a day off with pay at a later date.
(b)	Forfeit the holiday and receive overtime rates of time-and-one-half for all hours worked plus a normal day's pay in lieu of the holiday.
11.08	Where a holiday falls during an employee's annual vacation period, such employee will be allowed to:
(a)	Add an extra day on to the end of their vacation period if agreeable to Management.
(b)	Be allowed a day off with pay at a date convenient to the Company, in lieu of the holiday.
11.09	Employees will be paid for a normal working shift of 8 (eight) hours with the following exceptions:
(a)	Employees who regularly work less than a normal working day will be paid for the hours regularly worked.
(b)	Employees who regularly work more than a normal working day will be paid for the hours regularly worked plus the overtime premium.
11.10	The above sections, 11.06, 11.07, 11.08 and 11.09 apply only to employees who are qualified under 11.03.
ARTICLE 12 -VACATION WITH PAY
12.01 ( a ) Annual vacations will be observed during the two (2)
calendar weeks immediately preceding Civic Holiday and, with the exception of the Receiving, Iron Street Distribution Centre, Shade Card and Maintenance, all other departments will close down unless in the opinion of the
22
Company, it is deemed essential to continue certain
operations, in whole or in part.
(b)	In the event it is deemed essential to continue certain
operations in departments which are normally closed down, operators will be recruited on a voluntary basis and those who work will take the vacation to which they are entitled under 12.03, at a time mutually convenient to the Company and the employee.
12.02	VACATION YEAR:
In order to determine an employee's gross annual earnings as a basis from which to compute vacation pay, the vacation year will be the 52 (fifty-two) weeks ending with the Saturday nearest April 30.
Employees completing 1 (one) year's continuous service as at the Saturday nearest April 30 will be eligible for 2 (two) weeks vacation and will be paid 4% (four) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
Employees completing 5 (five) years but less than 11
(eleven) years' continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for 3 (three) weeks vacation; 2 (two) weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and
1	(one) week at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid 6% (six) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
Employees completing 11 (eleven) years but less than 12 (twelve) years' continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for 3 (three) weeks vacation;
2	(two) weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and 1 (one) week at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid 7% (seven) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
12.03 ( a )
(b)
(c)
23
(d)	Employees completing 12 (twelve) years but less than 13 (thirteen) years' continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for 4 (four) weeks vacation; 2 (two) weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and 2 (two) weeks at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid 8% (eight) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
(e)	Employees completing 13 (thirteen) years but less than 18 (eighteen) years' continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for 4 (four) weeks vacation; 2 (two) weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and 2 (two) weeks at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid 9% (nine) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
(f)	Employees completing 18 (eighteen) years but less than 21 (twenty-one) years' continuous service at any time during the calendar year will be eligible for 4 (four) weeks vacation; 2 (two) weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and 2 (two) weeks at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee and will be paid 10% (ten) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
(g)	Employees completing 22 (twenty-two) years of service at any time during the year will be entitled to 5 (five) weeks vacation; 2 (two) weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and 3 (three) weeks at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee will be paid 11% (eleven) percent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
Employees completing 30 (thirty) years of service at any time during the year will be entitled to 5 (five) weeks vacation; 2 (two) weeks to be taken at the annual vacation period and 3 (three) weeks at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee will be paid 12% (twelve) per cent of their gross earnings for the vacation year.
24
(h)	Notwithstanding 12.03 (b), (c), (d), {e)„ (f), and (g), employees who have not taken their vacations at a time mutually agreed by the Company and the employee by January 31st of a vacation year may be asked by the Company to take their remaining vacations at a time suitable to the Company. The Company will not unreasonably force employees to take their vacation.
12.04	( a ) Employees with less than 1 (one) year of continuous
service with the Company whose employment is terminated during the vacation year will receive vacation pay for that portion of the vacation year worked in accordance with the Employment Standard Act as revised.
(b) Employees with 1 (one) or more year's continuous service with the Company whose employment is terminated during the vacation year will receive vacation pay for that portion of the year so worked, in accordance with the applicable percentage referred to in (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), or (g), of Section 12.03.
12.05	In the case of employees who have lost time during the vacation year due to an injury or occupational disease covered by the Workers' Compensation Act, one and one-third times the actual wages paid by the Company during the vacation year will be used to provide the gross earnings figure to calculate the percentage for vacation purposes.
12.06	Where any provision contained in paragraph 12.03 and 12.04 is found to provide for vacation credits which fall short of the statutory requirements set forth in the current Employment Standards Act, then the vacation credits provided by the Act shall apply. NOTE: All vacation pay to be given at time of shut-down, upon request.
ARTICLE 13-SENIORITY
13.01
25
Separate Seniority shall be established for each of the following departments or occupational groups.
Drawing/Spinning Department Twisting/Reeling Department Dyehouse Department Finishing Department
Finishing Department
Finishing Department Finishing Department Finishing Department
Winding, Yarn Printing and Brushing Section
Balling, Pull Skein, Steaming and Accumulators Sections
Packing Section
Overprinting Section
General Section (Jobbers, Clerical, Material Handlers)
Finishing Department Sewings & Crafts Section Roselawn Avenue, Bulk Pack/Receiving Section Inspection Department Shade Card Department Iron Street Distribution Centre
Maintenance Department (Maintenance General
Services, Machinery Maintenance and Carpenters)
26
13.02	All employees shall be considered probationary for the first 40 (forty) days worked in the bargaining unit and shall have no seniority rights during that period. After such period, they shall be considered permanent employees and their seniority shall commence from the date of last hiring.
Students hired for summer vacation relief will be probationary employees for the entire relief period and will not be confirmed as permanent employees during that period.
An extension of the probationary period may be granted by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union, but this extension may not exceed 25 (twenty-five) days worked and each case will be treated on an individual basis.
13.03	Notwithstanding Article 13.02 those employees who are hired to meet temporary requirements will be termed as temporary and will not be retained beyond 40 (forty) days worked.
It is recognized by both parties that the use of temporary employees is essential to meet manning needs created by short-run production and technology changes, vacation, leave of absence and other emergency situations, as well as to reduce the need for the lay-off of full-time employees. The following points summarize our understanding on temporary employees:
(a)	If there are people on lay-off who are capable of doing the respective work, and the work is scheduled to exceed one week, they will first be offered temporary work before other individuals are approached. Unless the temporary work is on their previous job, an individual's refusal to. accept temporary work will not affect their recall rights.
(b)	Individuals on temporary jobs are not eligible to sign job postings.
£. I
(c)	Temporary jobs will not normally exceed 40 (forty) days worked. If the job exceeds that time, a meeting will be held with the Union.President to discuss the anticipated extent to which the job will continue and whether it will become a permanent job. All extensions beyond 40 (forty) days worked must be approved by the Union.
(d)	“Temporary employees will not be asked to work overtime unless other employees in the department who are qualified and available have refused.”
13.04	When an employee is transferred from one department to another department due to technological change as described in 9.01c) or due to layoff as described in 13.05 d) then his seniority will be transferred immediately to the new department after his acceptance of the available position.
When an employee is transferred from one department or another department following a job posting as in 13.11, his seniority will remain in his previous department for a period of ninety (90) days, after which time his seniority will be transferred to the new department.
13.05a) In the case of layoffs for the purpose of reducing the work force, seniority shall be the deciding factor and the last regular employee hired shall be the first laid off and similarly the last regular employee laid off shall be the first rehired provided those who remain on account of seniority meet the job requirement. A reasonable familiarization period will be provided to achieve satisfactory performance, this being defined as not less than the average performance for experienced workers in the department or occupational group.
b)	The Company will not, however, be obliged to adhere to this
procedure when laying off employees for a period of up to one complete shift because of a temporary lack of work occurring at irregular intervals. If, however, the foregoing should occur at regular
28
intervals to avoid a reduction in the work force, the terms in the foregoing (a) shall apply.
c)	The Company will not exercise the right stated in (a) above to depart from strict seniority when a reduction in the work force becomes necessary, unless the employee or employees who do not measure up to “Satisfactory Performance” have first had a warning in writing at least two weeks prior to the start of the reduction in the work force and they may be laid-off out of seniority unless there is a substantial improvement in their work performance and that the improvement is sustained.
d)	In the event of a serious and permanent reduction of the work force in an individual department or occupational group becomes necessary and there is little likelihood of employees affected being recalled to the department or occupational group concerned, the. following privileges will apply only in respect to employees who have had 4 (four) or more continuous years' of service with the Company.
Notwithstanding the separate department or occupational group seniority provided in Section 13.01 of this Article, an employee having 4 (four) or more years continuous service, who is affected by the aforementioned reduction, may exercise his plant seniority to displace the least senior employee who has less plant seniority in another department or occupational group. Furthermore, the Company will undertake to train such employee for up to two months at the learning rate or the low of the range for the particular job classification to which a transfer has been arranged.
13.06	In hiring new employees, preference shall, subject to the same conditions respecting skill, competence and efficiency as in 13.05, be given to those former employees who have had previous service with the Company and who have applications for re-employment on file, providing they are physically fit and were not discharged for cause. This however, shall not in any way limit the Company's right to employ technically trained or specially skilled workers.
29
13.07	In making promotions within the Bargaining Unit, preference shall, subject to same conditions respecting skill, competence and efficiency as in 13.05 be given to employees having the longest service.
13.08	Promotions to supervisory positions shall not be subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
13.09	In the event that an employee within the bargaining unit is promoted to a supervisory or confidential position beyond the scope of this agreement, he shall have from the date of promotion, 6 (six) months to determine whether he wishes to return to the bargaining unit or not. In the event that he does not return to the bargaining unit within this 6 (six) month period he shall lose all his seniority he had attained while he was in the bargaining unit.
13.10	When a permanent and major change in duties and job location becomes necessary effecting one or more, but not all employees within a department or occupational group, the employees with the highest seniority shall be given the first opportunity to accept or decline such change.
13.11	It is understood that in the event of a job posting on new equipment, opportunity will be given to existing employees to train on such machines before new employees are hired, provided the existing employees have the skill and ability to operate the new equipment. Seniority will govern where other factors are relatively equal. Skill, competence and efficiency shall be determined by the Management and should an orientation or adjustment period be necessary, this will be paid at the learning rate.
The Company agrees to post and circulate notice of any opening or a new or vacant occupation for a period of two (2) working days. Employees must have at least seven (7) months of continuous service in order to bid on a vacancy outside of his Department or his peg group. In the event that no one within the Department where the vacancy has occurred has applied, employees who have a minimum
30
of two (2) months of continuous service become eligible to bid on the vacancy.
In the event the job should prove unsatisfactory to the employee concerned, the employee has the right to return to the original job within ten (10) working days otherwise any right to return to the job from which the transfer was made, or any other job, will be at the sole discretion of the management.
13.12	The necessary employment of personnel on days on which the plant would normally be closed shall be by seniority, subject to ability to perform the work.
13.13a) Seniority lists showing each employee's seniority standing shall be posted by the Company on the departmental notice boards. After these lists have remained posted for a period of two weeks they shall be deemed to be correct and become final except in the case of any employee who files a written protest with his supervisor within the said 2 (two) week period concerning the incorrectness of his seniority date which shall be subject to adjustment if it is proved to be incorrect.
b)	Seniority lists shall be brought up to date every six months and copies of these lists will be made available to the Union.
13.14 Seniority shall be lost if the employee:
a)	Voluntarily leaves the employ of the Company.
b)	Is justifiably discharged.
c)	If an employee is absent without notifying the Company within five (5) working days of the absence, and without a reasonable explanation both for the absence and for the failure to notify the Company during the absence.
31
d)	After lay-off fails to report for work within 1 (one) week after recall unless other arrangements have been made with the Company.
e)	Seniority will be lost if lay-off exceeds the time limits stated in 13.15 (a) or(b)
f)	Fails to return to work on the regular shift immediately following the expiration of the leave of absence, as described in 14.01, unless.the employee both notifies the Company prior to the expiration of the Leave of Absence and also provides the Company with proof of the employee's attempt to return to work as scheduled.
g)	Works elsewhere while on Leave of Absence without written permission from the Company to do such work.
13.15 Recall after lay-off
a)	An employee with less than 1 (one) year of seniority shall have recall rights equal to his length of seniority.
b)	An employee with more than 1 (one) year of seniority shall be entitled to recall up to 12 (twelve) months from date of
lay-off,
c)	Recall will be based on seniority and advice of recall will be
confirmed via registered mail to the employee involved.
Should the most senior employee not be available at time of recall, the next senior employee will be contacted.
However, if the most senior employee becomes available for work, he will displace the last senior employee recalled.
32
ARTICLE 14 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
14.01	The Company may grant Leave of Absence for legitimate personal reasons. Any Leave of Absence will be in writing and no such leave will affect an employee's seniority rights when used for the purpose granted, provided the employee returns to work on the regular shift immediately following the expiration of the Leave of Absence.
14.02	Any statutory holiday or statutory holidays which might fall during a leave of absence as mentioned in 14.01 above, will not be paid for nor compensated for in any manner whatsoever, and when Leave of Absence is granted for the declared working day immediately preceding a statutory holiday and when granted for the declared working day immediately following a statutory holiday the provisions of 11.03 will apply.
14.03	The Company will grant Leave of Absence to the President of the Local, and for two other delegated Union Members provided they are not from the same occupational group, to attend Union conventions, conferences and educational seminars, provided that the Company is notified at least 7 (seven) working days in advance of any such requested leaves and in the opinion of the Company the employees concerned can be spared from their work. The leaves will be granted to a maximum of 15 (fifteen) working days without pay for the President of the Local, a total of 15 (fifteen) working days without pay for the other delegate Union members and an additional 15 (fifteen) working days for the delegate Union member elected to serve on the Joint Council. Such Leaves of Absences shall not be unreasonably withheld and will be exempt from provisions of 14.02 and will not therefore be considered absence for the purpose of 11.03.
14.04	The Company will grant leave of absence to an employee called for Jury Duty and the Company will compensate such employee for any loss in earnings to the extent of the difference between Jury Duty remuneration and his normal earnings.
33
14.05	The Company will grant leave of absence with pay to an employee suffering a bereavement in his immediate family. Such leave of absence shall be granted for a reasonable mourning period and the funeral but shall in no event be for a period of more than 3 (three) working days. Immediate family shall be defined as - Father, Mother, Husband, Wife, Children, Brothers, Sisters, Grandchildren and Grandparents.
14.06	The Company will grant leave of absence with pay to an employee whose spouse has suffered a bereavement of their Mother or Father and such leave of absence shall be granted for the day of the funeral only.
14.07	Maternity Leave
When a participating employee is absent from work for a maternity leave, the Company will pay the following premiums up to a maximum period of 17 (seventeen) weeks:
1.	Drug Plan
2.	Dental Plan
3.	Life Insurance
4.	Vision Care
ARTICLE 15 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
15.01	There shall be no lockout by the Company, or strike, slow-down or suspension of work, either complete or partial by the employees, nor any limitations or restrictions' placed upon the individual working ‘efforts of the employees, during the life of this Agreement.
15.02	In the event of any controversy or dispute between the Company
and any other outside group or any organization of its employees, the Union and the employees who come within the scope of this Agreement agree that they will continue to perform their duties irrespective of any such controversy or dispute with any other groups
34
or organizations. In the case of violation of this clause by an individual or individuals, the Union agrees that an effort will be made to rectify the situation.
ARTICLE 16 - NO DISCRIMINATION OR INTIMIDATION
16.01	It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination, coercion or intimidation by the Company, the Union, or its officers or members against any employee because of his activity or lack of activity, his membership or non-membership in any labour organization.
16.02	It is further agreed that there shall be no solicitation of members, collection of dues or other Union activities on the premises of the Company during working hours except as permitted by this Agreement. It is understood that no meeting of the Union or its, members shall be held on the premises of the Company at any time without the prior written approval of the Company.
16.03	An employee who violates any of the provisions of this article may be appropriately dealt with by the Company under the provisions of Article 3.
ARTICLE 17 - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES AND MAINTENANCE _____________OR MEMBERSHIP__________________________________
17.01	The Company will, upon the receipt of authorization cards signed by an employee, deduct from his pay each month the sum specified by the Union as being the amount of Union dues, or inform such employee that the amount specified by the Union as his monthly dues be deducted from his pay. The first such deduction to be made after 4 (four) clear weeks, to be the initiation fee payable to the Local's Financial Secretary. Subsequent deductions to be remitted by cheque to the Ontario Joint Council Office prior to the end of the month in which the deduction is made.
35
Employees hired on a temporary basis will not be required to sign a Union card but will be required to pay the Local's Financial Secretary the equivalent of 1 (one) month's Union dues after 4 (four) clear weeks. This will be deemed to the Local Initiation Fee.
17.02	The Company, at the time of making each remittance to the Union, will supply a statement showing the name of each employee from whose pay such deduction has been made.
17.03	The Company agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that an employee who, at the date of this Agreement, is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member after that date, shall maintain such membership during the life of this Agreement. The Union agrees that if they should act unilaterally to suspend or terminate membership of an employee, that action shall not result in termination of employment.
ARTICLE 18 - BULLETIN BOARDS
18.01	The Company agrees to extend to the Union the privilege of using all bulletin boards to be located in the mill in locations designated by the Company, provided that the use of such bulletin boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon only of such notices as have been signed by the President or other authorized signing officer of the Union and have received prior approval of the Company through the Human Resources Manager.
18.02	The following types of notices may be posted:
Notices of Union recreational and social affairs.
Notices of Union elections, results of elections and Union appointments, and
Notices of Union meetings or of any other similar business of the Union.
36
18.03	The Union agrees that no pamphlets, handbills or other publications will be distributed on the premises of the Company and without the prior approval of the Management.
ARTICI F 19 - WELFARE & SAFFTY
19.01	In the interest of Safety and Accident Prevention the Company will pay 90% (ninety) percent of the employee cost of safety shoes up to a maximum of $65.00 (sixty-five) dollars for one pair per year for each employee upon receipt of invoice.
19.02	Each new employee hired will be obliged to purchase a pair of safety shoes and reimbursement will be made in accordance with Article
19.01	upon completion of his probationary period.
19.03	The Company will provide the choice of one or two piece uniforms to Maintenance employees engaged in machinery maintenance and shops and to the Dyehouse Drug Room Clerk on the basis of 2 (two) pairs per year.
New employees hired will be issued their choice of one or two piece uniforms upon completion of their probationary period.
19.04	a ) The Company and the Union are in complete agreement
with the Safety Rules and Regulations of The Department of Labour for the Province of Ontario, as provided for in the current Occupational Health and Safety Act and will work together in the interest of Safety and Accident Prevention.
b) The Company will agree to the election of a Safety
Committee of not more than four members of the Local Union who shall be part of any plant Safety Committee.
19.05	a ) When a participating employee is absent from work for
leave of absence, lack of work or any other reason not described in 19.05 (b) or (c) below for a period in excess of
37
three (3) months, the Company will pay the premiums for Drug Plan, Dental Plan, Life Insurance and Vision Care for those two months after which time the Company may at its own discretion, select one or other of the following options:
(1)	Continue to pay the premiums and recover the appropriate amount by payroll deduction on the employee's return to work,
OR
(2)	Offer the employee the opportunity to pay the Company directly at current premium rates and the Company will maintain coverage
b) When a participating employee is absent from work due to sickness or non work related accidents, the Company will maintain the following premiums up to a maximum of six (6) months:
1.	Drug Plan
2.	Dental Plan
3.	Life Insurance
4.	Vision Care
After 4 (four) months the Company may at its own discretion select one of the two options outlined in 19.05 (a) above.
c) When a participating employee is absent from work due to a work related accident, the Company will maintain the following premiums as required under the Workers' Compensation Action (Bill 162):
1.	Drug Plan
2.	Dental Plan
3.	Life Insurance
4.	Vision Care
38
19.06a) Sick Benefit:
The Company agrees to provide weekly benefits under the Coats Paton Sick Benefit Fund in the amount of $54.00 (fifty-four) dollars per day per person. Employees shall become eligible to make a claim under the plan after completing four (4) months continuous service with the Company.
b) Upon completion of 2 (two) working days of disability, an employee will receive $54.00 (fifty-four) dollars per normal working day retroactive to the first day of disability up to the tenth working day when Employment Insurance Benefits normally take effect, provided the employee provides the Company with a medical certificate.
19.07a) Drug Plan:
The Company will maintain the premiums for a prescribed Drug Plan for all eligible employees.
Premiums for the plan will be paid for by the Company on behalf of all eligible employees.
An eligible employee is defined as an employee who has completed his probationary period and whose spouse's Drug Plan, if any, is less advantageous.
Temporary employees will not be eligible for coverage.
Coverage under the Plan will be based according to a two tiered plan. Part “A” and Part "B", details are provided in the Benefits Booklet.
b) Prescription Glasses:
The Company agrees to assume the cost of prescription glasses for employees and their immediate family, being spouse and children, as follows:
39
1 (one) pair every 24 (twenty-four) months, no deductible to a
maximum of $100.00 (one hundred) dollars.
c) Dental Plan:
The Company will maintain the premiums for a prescribed Dental Plan for all eligible employees.
Premiums for the plan will be paid for by the Company on behalf of all eligible employees.
An eligible employee is defined as an employee who has completed his probationary period and whose spouse's Dental Plan, if any, is less advantageous.
Temporary employees will not be eligible for coverage
*Coverage under the Plan includes Restorative, Periodontics, Endodontics, Root Canals, Bridges and Crowns. There will be a yearly deductible charge of $25.00 (twenty-five) for employees covered under single or family status. Reimbursement for allowed expenses for restorative, endodontics and periodontic will be 85%. Reimbursement for allowed expenses for root canals, bridge and crowns will be 55%.
Schedule of fees. Based on the previous year 0 D A
19.08 The Company will supply one parka jacket per year to Utility Persons and to the two Material Handlers in the Roselawn Ave. Bulk Pack/Receiving Dept., one jacket also to be available in the Dyehouse and one in Top Stock.
In addition, Utility Persons will be given rubber boots and protective clothing for cleaning around Dyehouse kettles.
One parka jacket or vest will be provided to each of the Iron Street truck drivers
40
20.01	This Agreement shall continue in effect from the 1 st day of July 1997 to the 30th day of April 2000 and shall continue ‘aufomatTcally
thereafter tor periods of three years, unless either party notifies the other, in writing, within the period of two months preceding the expiration date of this Agreement that it desires to amend or terminate it.
20.02	Negotiations shall begin within 21 (twenty-one) days following
notification for amendments as provided in the preceding paragraph.
20.03	If, pursuant to such negotiations, an agreement is not reached on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement prior to the expiration date, it shall expire unless it is extended for a specific period by mutual agreement of the parties.
41
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties, hereto has caused this Agreement to be signed by their duly authorized representatives this 17th day of December, 1997.
For Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile
For Coats Patons	Employees. Local 836
R.D. KARR	H. AITCHESON
T. WILSON
D. MASCOLL
S. MORRA
I. CARA VELLA
V.N. GROSZ
J. CARLINI
W. CHARTERS
DRAWING/SPINNING DEPARTMENTS
CLASSIFICATION	RATE			
Beginners & Learners	11.08 p.h.			
General	11.26 p.h.			
	LOW	2 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	1 YEAR
Material Handler	11.29 p.h.		11.37 p.h.	11.56 p.h.
Clerical	11.68 p.h.	12.18 p.h.	12.41 p.h.	12.89 p.h.
Drawing/Spinning Machine Operator	11.26 p.h.	11.56 p.h.		
Machine Oiler Cleaner	11.44 p.h.	11.95 p.h.	12.40 p.h.	12.85 p.h.
Machine Fixer	13.05 p.h.	13.25 p.h.	13.55 p.h.	
DRAWING/SPINNING DEPARTMENTS
43
SCHEDULE 'A'TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS FFFFCTIVF JUNE 28. 1998
44
PRAWING/SPINNING DEPARTMENTS
SCHEDULE "A" TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS. EFFECTIVE JUNE 27U399
CLASSIFICATION	RATE			
Beginners & Learners	11.63 P h.			
General	11.81 p.H.			
	LOW	2 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	1 YEAR I
Material Handler	11.84 p.h.		11.92 p.h.	12.11 p.h.
Clerical	12.23 p.h.	12.73 p.h.	12.96 p.h.	13.44 p.h.
Drawing/Spinning Machine Operator	11.81 p.h.	12.11 p.h.		
Machine Oiler Cleaner	11.99 p.h.	12.50 p.h.	12.95 p.h.	13.40 p.h
Machine Fixer	13.60 p.h.	13.80 p.h.	14.10 p.h.	
TWISTING/REFI INGDEPARTMENTS
45
.E'A'TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE JUNE 29. 1997
CLASSIFICATION	RATE			
Beginners & Learners	11.08 p.h.			
General	11.26 p.h.			
	LOW	2 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	1.YEAR
Material Handler	11.29 p.h.		11.37 p.h.	11.56 p.h.
Clerical	11.68 p.h.	12 18 p.h.	12.41 p.h.	12.89 P h.
Twisting & Reeling Machine Operator	11.26 p.h.	11.32 p.h.	11.44 p.h.	11.57 p.h.
Material Handler	11.51 p.h.	11.59 p.h.		11.70 p.h.
46
TWISTIN.G/REE1.ING-P.EPART-MEMTS
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE JUNE 28. 1998
47
SCHEDULE A TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE .MINE 27.1999
| CLASSIFICATION	RATE			
Beginners & Learners	11.63 p.h.	■		
General	11.81 p.h.			
	LOW	2 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	1 YEAR
Material Handler	11.84 p.h.		11.92 p.h.	12.11 p.h.
Clerical	12.23 p.h.	12.73 p.h.	12.96 p.h.	13.44 p.h.
Twisting & Reeling Machine Operator	11.81 p.h.	11.87 p.h.	11.99 p.h.	12.12 p.h.
Material Handler	12.06 p.h.	12.14 p.h.		12.25 p.h.
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE JUNE 29. 1997
48
CLASSIFICATION	LOW	2 MONTHS	6-MQNTHS	1 YEAR
Drug Room Clerk	11.92 p.h.	12.00 p.h.		12.09 p.h.
Dyehouse Operator	11.43 p.h.	11.69 p.h.	11.89 p.h.	11,98 p.h.
49
PYEHOUSE DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE JUNE 28. 1998
50
PYEHOUSE DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
FINISHING DEPARTMENT
51
SCHEDULE "A" TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE JUNE 29. 199?
Brushing Machine Dperator
52
FINISHING PEPARTIVIENT„cantl(L
SCHEDULE "A" TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE JUNE 29, 199?
FINISHING DEPARTMENT
53
SCHEDULE 'A "TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS FFFFCTIVF .IUNF 28. 1998
CLASSIFICATION
Beginners & Learners
General
Material Handler
Overprinting Bags & Labels
Sewings & Crafts Machine Operator (Coats)
Obsolescent Control Clerical
SWA Yarn Printing iMachine Operator
Winding Machine 'Operator
Brushing Machine Operator
54
CLASSIFICATION	LOW	2 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	1 YEAR
Balling/Pullskein	11.56	11.62	11.74	11.87
Machine Operator	p.h.	p.h.	p.h.	p.h.
Accumulator Operator	11.56	11.62	11.74	11.87
	p.h.	p.h.	p.h.	p.h.
Packer	11.56	11.62	11.74	11.87
	p.h.	p.h.	p.h.	p.h.
55
SCHEDULE 'A "TIMF RATED Cl ASSIFICAT10NS
56
FINISHING DEPARTMENI^eont’d
SCHEDULE "A" TIME RATED CLASSE1CAI1QNS EFFECIIYEJUNE 27J999
CLASSIFICATION	LOW	2 MONTHS	$ MONTHS	1 YEAR
Balling/Pullskein	11.81	11.87	11.99	12.12
Machine Operator	P h.	p.h.	p.h.	p.h.
Accumulator Operator	11.81	11 87	11.99	12.12
	p.h.	p.h.	p.h.	p.h.
Packer	11.81	11.87	11.99	12.12
	p.h.	p.h.	p.h.	p.h.
57
RQSELAWN AVENUE BULK PACK/RECEIVING
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS FFFFCTIVF JUNE 29. 1997
CLASSIFICATION	!low	2 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	i YEAR
Beginners & Learners	11.08 p.h. .		11.15 p.h.	11.26 p.h.
Receiving Clerk	11.47 p.h.	11.56 p.h.	11.63 p.h.	11.74 p.h.
Bulk Packer	11.62 p.h.			11.70 p.h.
Elevator Operator	11.32 p.h.		11.44 p.h.	11.57 p.h.
Material Handler	11.33 p.h.	11.50 p.h	11.62 p.h.	11.70 p.h.
58
ROSELAWN AVENUE BULKEACK/RECEMNS
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE JUNE 28.JL8.9B
59
ROSELAWN AVENUE BULK PACK/RECEIVINQ
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE JUNF 27. 1999
| CLASSIFICATION	LOW	2 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	1 YEAR
Beginners & Learners	11.63 P h.		11.70 p.h.	11.81 p.h.
Receiving Clerk	12.02 p.h.	12.11 p.h.	12.18 p.h.	12.29 p.h.
Bulk Packer	12.17 p.h.			12.25 p.h.
Elevator Operator	11.87 p.h.		11.99 p.h.	12.12 p.h.
Material Handler	11.88 p.h.	12.05 p.h.	12.17 p.h.	12.25 p.h.
IMSP.ECIlQtLBEE’ARIMENT
61
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
SCHEDUI E"A" TIME RATED Cl ASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE JUNE 28. 1998
62
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
SCUEDULE^AIIJME RATEQ-CLASSIEICAIIQM5 EFFECT1YEJUNE_28,1998
SHADE
63
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE JUNE 29. 1997
| CLASSIFICATION		I LOW	2 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	
	Shade Card Marker	11.08	11.18	11.26	
		p.h.	p.h.	p.h.	
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
SHADE CARD DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
64
IRON STREET DISTRIBUTION CENTRE
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EEEECIIVE JUNE 29,1997
CLASSIFICATION	LOW	2 MONTHS	6 MONTHS	1 YEAR
Trainee	11.08 p.h.		11.15 p.h.	11.26 p.h.
Material Handler	11.33 p.h.	11.50 p.h. ■	11.62 p.h.	11.70 p.h.
Shipping/Receiving Coordinator	12.40 p.h.	12.72 p.h.	12.89 p.h. .	
Raymond Operator	11.96 p.h.	12.16 p.h.	12.43 p.h. (licensed)	
Truck Driver	11.96 p.h.	12.16 p.h.	12.43 p.h.	
Warehouse Janitor/General	11.33 p.h.	11.50 p.h.	11.70 p.h.	11.88 p.h.
Order Processor	11.33 p.h.	11.50 p.h.	11.62 p.h.	11.70 p.h.
Distribution Assistant	11.68 p.h.	12.08 p.h.	12.41 p.h.	12.89 p.h.
Holland Van Driver	13.19 p.h.	13.39 p.h.	13.95 p.h.	
65
IRON STRFFT DISTRIBUTION CFNTRF
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE JUNE 28.1998
66
IRON STR£ET_DlSIBlfiUIIQN.CiNTfi£
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS EFFECTIVE JUNE 27. 1999
MAINTENANCE
67
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
EFFFCTIVF JIJNF 25,1357
68
MAINTENANCE
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
EFFECTIVE JUNE 2ft. 1998
SKILLED TRADES
Mechanic/Electro Mechanic #3
Mechanic/Electro Mechanic #4
Electro mechanic #5
Carpenter
General Helper
Tradespersons'
Apprentices
Factory Janitor
Utility Person
15.19
p.h.
16.91
p.h.
18.73
p.h.
14.84
p.h.
11.38
p.h.
12.13
p.h.
11.56
p.h.
12.13
p.h.
15.44
p.h.
17.04
p.h.
19.00
p.h.
14.94
p.h.
11.50
p.h.
11.85
p.h.
12.25
p.h.
15.66
p.h
17.96
p.h.
19.52
p.h.
15.03
p.h.
I 1.63 p.h.
12.25
p.h.
	16 75 p.h
	18.47 p.h.
	
15.19 p.h.	
11.74 p.h.	
	
	
	
MAINTENANCE
69
SCHEDULE “A” TIME RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
EFFECTIVE JUNE 27.1999
19 9 7
JANUARY
a ft a ▼ Hi ▼ p A
_!	12 3 4
5 67 B 9 10 11
12 13 14 IS 1617 16 16 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30 31
9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26
FEBRUARY
a n r ii/ y
2 a 4	jj
p
2 3 4
MARCH

t
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10	11	12	13	14	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	28	29
30 31
APRIL
MAY.
JUNE
S M T W T F S
S M T W T F S
S M T W T F S
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 2021222324252618 252619 27282930
12 3
4 5 6 7 6 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 20 272126 22 2923 30 3124
1	2 3 4 s 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
JULY
AUGUST
SEPTEMBER
S M T W T F S
S M T W T F S
S M T W T F S
1	2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30 31 24
1 2
3 4	5	6	7	8	9
10 11	12	13	14	15	16
17 18	19	20	21	22	23
25 26 27 26 29 30
1	2 3 4 6 6
7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER’
DECEMBER
8MTWT F S
$ M T W T F S
S M T W T F S
1	2	3	4
5	678	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26 27 28 29 30 31
1
2 3 4 5	6 7 6
9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 25 26 27 26 29
to	_________
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	6	9	10	11	12	13
14 15	16	17	18	19	20'
21 22	23	24	25	26	27
26 29	30	31
1998
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH
SMTWT F S	S M T W T F 3	3 M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 6 6 7 8 0 10 11 12 13 14 18 18 17 25 28 27 26 20 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 0 7 8 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 10 20 21 22 23 24 25 26	1 2 3 4 6 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22* 232124 25 27 26 29 30 31
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
S M T W T F S	SMTWT F S	SMTWT F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 6 8 10 11 12 13 14 15 10 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 18 17 16 10. 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 6 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30
JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER
SMTWT F8	SMTWT F S	S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 10 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 20 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 20 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30
OCTOBER	NOVEMBER	DECEMBER
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 6 6 7 6 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 10 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 20 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 20 30 31
1999
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH
S M T W T F 8	S M T W T F s	S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 8 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 10 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 20 30 31	1 2 3 4 6 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 10 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28	1 2 3 4 6 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 10 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30 31
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 10 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 20 30	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 18 17 18 IQ 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 6 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 6 6 7 5 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 10 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	12 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
OCTOBER	NOVEMBER	DECEMBER
S M T W T F S	SMTWTFS	8MTWT F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 10 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30	12 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
2000
JANUARY—	FEBRUARY	MARCH
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F 3	3 M T W T F 8
2 3 4 3 1) 7 1 0 10 11 12 13 14 IS 13 17 18 10 20 21 22 23 24 25 28 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 6 a 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 18 17 18 10 20 21 22 23 24 25 29 27 26 29	12 3 4 6 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 18 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 26 26 27 28 29 30 31
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
[3MTWT F S	S M T W T F S	8 M T W T F 3
1 2 3 4 8 8 7 8 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 18 17 18 10 20 21 22 30 24 25 28 27 28 20	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 18 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 18 17 lb 19 20 21 22 23 24 28 28 27 28 29,30
JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER
3 M T W T F 3	8MTWTF8	3 M T W T F 8
1 2 3 4 5 8 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 IS 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 28 27 26 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 6 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 16 II 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 !	1 2 3 4 8 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 18 16 17 lb 19 20 21 22 23 24 28 28 27 28 29 30
OCTOBER	NOVEMB E	R DECEMBER
3 M T W T F 3	8 M T W T IF 3	8MTWTF8
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 18 16 17 ta 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	12 3 4 8 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 16 18 17 16 24 28 19 20 21 22 23 28 27 28 29 30	1 2 3 4 8 6 7 8 9 to it 12 13 14 15 18 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 28 26 27 28 29 30 U