Collective Agreement
Between:
Bayex, Division of Bay Mills Limited - Midland
and
U.N.I.T.E.
Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees
Effective January 1st, 2000 - December 31 st, 2002.
Index
Article
1: General Purpose ................
2: Recognition and Coverage ■ ■ ■ ■
3: Management Functions ............
4: No Discrimination Or Intimidation
5: Union Representation.............
6: Grievance Procedure .............
Step No. 1 .....................
Step No. 2 .....................
Step No. 3 .....................
7: Discharge .......................
8: Arbitration .....................
9: No Strikes Or Lock-outs .........
10: Seniority.......................
11: Job Progression................
12: Layoffs and Recalls ...........
Refusal of Recall .............
13: Transfers ......................
14: Leave of Absence ..............
15: Bulletin Boards ...............
16: Safety and Health .............
17: Relationship ..................
18: Hours of Work..................
19: Overtime . ....................
20: Wages ..........................
21: Vacations .....................
22: Plant Holidays.................
23: Bereavement....................
24: Health and Welfare Plan.........
25: Supply of Apparel..............
26: Safety Equipment ..............
27: Jury Duty/Crown Witness ........
28: Tool Allowance ................
29: Termination....................
Appendix nB".......................
Apprenticeship ................
Letter of Understanding............
Training ..........................
Letter of Understanding ...........
Truck Driver...................
Letter of Understanding............
Job Security ..................
Letter of Understanding ...........
Article 18.07..................
Letter of Intent . Re: Article 21.03 ■
1
1
2
2
3
5
7
. 7
9
12
15
17
18
19
20 21 21 22 2 4
...2	6
...2	6
...3 9
40
40
. . 41 . 41 . . 42 ...4 2 . . 43
2
Letter of Intent .......
aptitude test......
Letter of Intention . . . .
Supervisors Working Letter of Understanding Hiring Machinists . .
Letter of Intent .......
Lead Hands ........
Letter of Intent .......
Article 22.01......
Letter of Understanding Article 5.04............
. 44 . 44 . 45
45
46 46
. 47 ..4 7 . 48
4 8 49 4 9
Collective Agreement
entered into as of January 1st, 1997
by and between
Bayex, Division of Bay Mills Limited - Midland (hereinafter called "the Company”)
AND
Article 1;
1.01
General Purpose
The general purpose of this Agreement is to maintain the
harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, and to provide an amicable method of settling differences or grievances which may arise from time to time, and to establish and maintain mutually satisfactory working conditions, hours of work and wages for the employees hereby
covered.
Article 2:	Recognition and Coverage
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive
collective bargaining agency with respect to all matters properly arising out of this Agreement for all of the Company's employees employed at its mill in Midland, Ontario, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office staff, persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week, and students temporarily employed during the summer school vacation period only.
2.02	The word "employee" or "employees" wheneve
used in this Agreement shall mean any or all of the employees in the
bargaining unit as defined above except where the context otherwise provides.
2.03	Where a masculine noun or pronoun is used herein it shall
mean and include the feminine noun or pronoun where the context so applies.
Article 3:	Management Functions
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of
the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency:
(b)	hire, discharge, retire at age 65, direct, classify, transfer, promote,
demote, suspend, and otherwise discipline employees, provided that a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be the subject of a grievance and
dealt with in accordance with the grievance procedure;
(c)	generally manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged, in its sole and absolute discretion and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, processes of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced, and the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations, and all other matters concerning the operation of the Company's business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Agreement:
(d)	establish plant rules not inconsistent with the provisions of the
Agreement to govern the conduct of the employees.
3.02	The Company agrees that those functions shall not be
exercised in a manner inconsistent with this Agreement.
Article 4:	No Discrimination Or Intimidation
4.01	It is agreed that there will be no discrimination, intimidation
or coercion by the Company, the Union or their respective representatives or
2
employees against any employee because of his activity or lack of activity, membership or non- membership in any labour or political organization, or
because of race, colour or religion.
4.02	The Union agrees that there shall be no solicitation for
members, collection of dues, or other union activity on the premises of the Company except as permitted by this Agreement. It is understood that no union meetings or meetings with respect to the Union or its activities shall be held on the premises of the Company at any time without the prior written approval of the Company.
Article 5:	Union Representation
5.01	In order to provide an orderly procedure for the servicing of grievances and disputes hereunder, the Union will select or appoint stewards whose duties shall be to assist employees In presenting their grievances to the designated representatives of the Company in accordance with the grievance procedure.
5.02	Employees shall not be eligible to serve as stewards or Union executive unless they have been in the Company's continuous employ for at least twelve (12) months.
5.03	The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the stewards and the areas or departments, or groups of departments, each represents before the Company shall be required to recognize them.
5.04	The Union may select or appoint not more than ten (10) stewards. There shall not be more than one (1) steward on each shift for each of the following departments:
(a)	Preparation Department
(b)	Weaving and Roving Departments
(c)	Finishing, Cutting & Inspection Departments
3
(d)	One (1) steward for all shifts in Shipping, Maintenance and all other
remaining departments.
5.05	It is understood that stewards have their regular work to perform on behalf of the Company and that if it is necessary to service a grievance during working hours they will not leave their work without obtaining permission from the foreman. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. When resuming their regular work they will report back to the foreman.
The Company will provide a mail box and file cabinet for the use of the Union.
5.06	In order that loss of time and production may be kept to a
minimum, it is understood that as little time as possible will be spent by the stewards in servicing grievances during working hours. If in the opinion of the Company more than a reasonable amount of time has been taken by a shop steward the Company may decline to approve payment to such shop steward for such excessive time.
5.07	The Union shall appoint a Grievance Committee which shall consist of the Executive Committee presently holding office and provided that such Committee is, until the next election, the same Committee (including any individual permanent replacement(s)) which negotiated the Collective Agreement, and the steward of the department or area in which the grievance originated. Not more than four (4) members shall negotiate any single grievance with management.
5.08	The Company will compensate stewards and members of the grievance committee for time spent during working hours in investigating and settling grievances at their regular rate of pay.
5.09	Upon request to the Plant Manager a permanent representative of the Union may be permitted to enter the plant for the
4
purpose of investigating or assisting in the settlement of a grievance provided such representative is accompanied through the plant by a representative of management, and with the understanding that such visit will not interfere with the operation of the plant.
5.10	The Union will appoint a bargaining committee of not more
than four (4) members for the purpose of negotiating amendments to the Collective Agreement. It is understood that the bargaining committee members shall have a minimum of twelve (12) months of continuous
employment with the Company.
Article 6:	Grievance Procedure
6.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and it is specifically understood that an employee has no grievance until he has first given his foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint. If an employee wishes to discuss any interpretation or application of any provisions of this Agreement with the Company, he shall first take the matter up with his immediate foreman. He may be accompanied by his steward if he so desires.
6.02	If such complaint is not settled to the satisfaction of the
employee concerned within three (3) working days, then the following steps of the grievance procedure may be invoked in order, provided that the alleged circumstances of the complaint originated or occurred not more than seven (7) working days prior to its presentation to the foreman, the exception being a grievance regarding wages which shall have a time limit of one (1) full pay period after receipt of pay.
6.03	Step No. 1
The grievance shall be reduced to writing on forms supplied by the Union, and shall be presented to the foreman, within three (3) working days after the foreman's final verbal reply, by the employee, accompanied by his steward. After such discussion as is necessary the foreman shall, within
5
three (3) working days, state his decision to the employee and the steward
in writing.
6.04	Step No. 2
Failing satisfactory settlement of the grievance at Step No. 1, the grievance shall become a matter of discussion if submitted to the Superintendent within three (3) working days of receipt of the reply at Step No. 1. This discussion will be between the grievance committee and the Superintendent and/or other representatives of the Company. A written answer shall be given by the Superintendent within three (3) working days after the meeting noted herein.
6.05	Step No. 3
Failing a satisfactory settlement at Step No. 2, the grievance committee may, within five (5) working days after receipt of the answer as required in Step No. 2, submit the written record of the grievance to the Plant Manager and request a meeting to discuss the matter. This meeting will be between the grievor, grievance committee, the permanent representative of the Union, when requested by either party, and a management group of the Company. The Plant Manager shall notify the grievance committee as to the time and place of the meeting to be held: such meeting to be held not later than five (5) working days after the request for same has been received by him.
6.06	In the event that the grievance is not settled at the conclusion of this meeting, the written answer thereto shall be submitted within three (3) working days to the union committee after such meeting.
6.07	The time allowance provided in the above sections shall not include Saturday and Sunday and may be extended by mutual agreement. If the time allowance, or any agreed upon extension, is not observed by the Union the grievance shall be considered as dropped. If the time allowance,
6
or any agreed upon extension, is not observed by the Company, the grievance shall be considered to have advanced to the next stage.
6.08	The Company or the Union may lodge a grievance with the
other party with respect to the application, interpretation or violation of this Agreement. Such grievance may be dealt with through the grievance procedure established by this Article beginning at Step No. 3.
Article 7:	Discharge
7.01	A claim by an employee that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company by the employee or the Union within five (5) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company, and shall be dealt with in accordance with the grievance procedure at Step No. 3.
7.02	Such special grievance may be settled by confirming the management's action in dismissing the employee, by reinstating the
employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which may be deemed by the parties, or an arbitration board, to be just and equitable.
7.03	A discharged employee will be permitted to interview his steward at a place designated by management for a reasonable period of
time before leaving the premises of the Company if he so requests.
Article 8:	Arbitration
8.01	Failing settlement by the grievance procedure of any
difference concerning the interpretation, application or alleged violation of this Agreement, the grievance may be taken to arbitration, provided that if no written request is received within ten (10) working days after the final
decision is given under the grievance procedure it shall be deemed to have been finally, completely and satisfactorily settled.
7
8.02	When either party requests arbitration as hereinabove
provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement and, at the same time, nominate an arbitrator. Within ten
(10)	days thereafter the other party shall nominate an arbitrator. The two arbitrators shall attempt to select by agreement a third person who shall act as impartial chairman of the arbitration board. If they are unable to agree on a chairman within five (5) days of the appointment of the second of them, then the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall be asked to name a chairman of the arbitration board.
8.03	No grievance may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
8.04	An arbitration board shall not make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
8.05	The proceedings of the Arbitration board shall be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the majority of such board shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
8.06	Each of the parties hereto shall bear the expenses of the
arbitrator appointed by it, and the parties will jointly bear the expenses of the chairman of the arbitration board.
8.07	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been Involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
8.08	Before either party requests arbitration under Section 46 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act it will give the other party twenty-one (21) days' notice prior to making the application and the parties will endeavour to agree on a date for hearing within forty-two (42) days of such communication of intent to arbitrate under Section 46.
8
Article 9:	No Strikes Or Lock-outs
9.01	In view of the orderly procedure for settling grievances, the
Company agrees that there will be no lock-out of the employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strikes, slow-down, sit-down or any stoppage of work or other collective action, either partial or complete, either by individual or collective action.
Article 10:	Seniority
10.01	Seniority will be recognized on a departmental basis, and will be based on the length of an employee's continuous service with the Company since his first entry into the group of employees which is currently covered by the Collective Agreement.
10.02	New employees will be considered to be probationary employees for three (3) calendar months, and during this probationary period such employee will be entitled to no seniority and may be dismissed or laid off at the discretion of the Company. At the end of the probationary period the employee's name will be entered on the seniority list of his department as of the date of last hiring. In the case of a newly hired loom fixer or employee in the Maintenance Department at Grade H or above, the probationary period for an employee who is not fully qualified will be extended to six (6) months with respect to the person's performance.
If a probationary employee is laid off prior to the completion of probation and subsequently works again, he will be deemed to have completed his probationary period if he has completed a total of three (3) months work in a period of six (6) consecutive months provided that segments of less than one (1) month worked shall not be counted if they are separated by more than one (1) week not worked. The seniority date for such person shall be the first date of hire within the six (6) consecutive months.
3 0.03	Seniority lists will be established for each department. The
present departments are as follows:
Preparation	Cutting
Weaving	Inspection
Finishing	Maintenance
Supply Room
10.04	The Company will maintain a seniority list for each department, and a copy of the original list and revisions thereto will be supplied to the Union every six (6) months. The revised lists will be posted
on the bulletin boards.
10.05	An employee shall lose all seniority and employment if he:
(a)	voluntarily quits the employ of the Company;
(b)	is justifiably discharged:
(c)	is absent without permission for three (3) days or more without
having a satisfactory reason;
(d)	upon being given actual notice by personal communication or being notified by registered mail to the employee's last known address to return to work from a layoff of indeterminate duration fails to return to work and/or fails to give notice within four (4) days of the mailing date of the notice of his intention so to return:
(e)	following a layoff of a determinate period, fails to report for work on
the date and at the time specified at the time of layoff;
(f)	for any reason has not worked for the Company for a period of twelve (12) months or more with the exception of employees who are absent due to an occupational accident. It is agreed that exceptions may be made to this subclause in cases of absence due to sickness or accident in which case no termination action will be taken by the Company until the employee's condition and prospects of return to work have been reviewed by the Company and the Union Committee;
(g)	an employee who has lost seniority under Article 10.05 shall be
deemed to be terminated except where the circumstances under parts (c), (d) or (e) are beyond the employee's reasonable control.
10.06	It shall be the duty of the employee to notify the Company
promptly of any change in his address or telephone number. If an employee
Mixing
Shipping
Roving
10
fails to do so the Company shall not be responsible for failure of notice to
reach him.
10.07	The President, Vice president, Recording Secretary and Financial Secretary shall be subject to the layoff procedure except they may hold on to the lowest job in their department without regard to seniority as long as he or she possesses (without training) the required skills and
competence to perform the job until no work is available on that job.
10.08	An employee who has been transferred from a position within the bargaining unit to a position outside the bargaining unit shall for a period of six (6) months retain his seniority, and in the event that during that six (6) month period he Is transferred back to his position within the bargaining unit then he shall be credited with the seniority he held at the date of his transfer out of the bargaining unit, but he shall not be credited for the period of his employment In the position outside the bargaining unit. It is agreed that in transferring such a person back into the bargaining unit he shall displace the employee then currently holding his former position. Employees promoted or transferred as a result of the original transfer out of the bargaining unit shall return to their original positions if the transferred employee returns to the bargaining unit.
10.09	The Company shall not be obliged to follow the seniority
rules when laying off an employee for one (1) working day or less, after which layoffs shall be in line with the layoff procedure.
10.10	In the event of an employee being absent due to sickness or other legitimate reason for more than three (3) working days, he must, before reporting for work, inform his foreman of his ability to return to work. The foreman must be advised at least one (1) shift in advance so that any necessary arrangements may be made. Penalty for failure to notify the foreman shall in no case be more than one (1) day of layoff.
11
Article 3 1:	Job Progression
11.01	It is the purpose of this article to establish a formal
promotion program for employees from jobs with lesser skills to jobs requiring higher skills in a logical and progressive manner.
11.02	Departmental job progression charts will be negotiated and amended as required, and shall form part of this Agreement. Progression will be in accordance with each chart.
11.03	(a) A permanent vacancy is a vacancy of more than three (3) months (unless extended by mutual agreement of the parties) and does not include a vacancy arising from illness or leave of absence. All permanent vacancies in classifications shall be posted on the bulletin board for seven (7) working days and any employee who has worked twelve (12) continuous months (six (6) consecutive months in the case of a job in Group I or lower) in his present job may make application by signing his name on the notice made within the said period of seven (7) working days. The Company may waive the twelve (12) continuous month (six (6) consecutive months in the case of a job in Group I or lower) requirement provided the Company waives the requirement for all applicants for that posting.
(b)	When none of the applicants satisfy the minimum service requirements (twelve months or six months respectively), if the opening is in Group I or below, the senior applicant who has seniority and who is in Creeler, Tube Cutter, or Utility shall get the job.
11.04	The selection of applicants shall be by seniority from among
applicants who have the basic physical, reading, writing and mathematical
abilities for the job. Selection shall be in the following sequence:
(a)	From applicants in the same department in which the vacancy exists who are in a classification on the job level immediately below that of the vacancy; failing that
12
(b)	From applicants in the same department in which the vacancy exists who are in lower rated classifications such to be done progressively downward.
An employee selected as in (a) or (b) shall be paid twenty cents (20$) more than his previously attained rate for the first two (2)
months on the new job and shall progress thereafter by twenty cents (20$) per hour every two (2) months to the maximum job rate.
Failing that
(c)	From applicants in the same department in which the vacancy exists who are in the same or in a higher rated classification. If the applicant is currently in Job Group J or above, the applicant must have been in the job for two (2) years or more to be entitled to bid down within the same department. An employee selected according to (c) shall be paid the rate for the posted job;
Failing that
(d)	The selection of applicants from other departments will be by seniority.
In the event that the vacancy is filled under this sub clause, then the applicant who is selected shall be precluded from applying for any new vacancy for a period of twelve (12) calendar months.
The Company will furnish the Union with a letter in which it agrees, upon request from an unsuccessful applicant for a vacancy, to furnish an explanation as to why that person's application was
unsuccessful.
An employee selected according to (d) shall be paid twenty cents (20$) less than the rate for the posted job for the first two (2)
months.
(e)	The Company shall hire from outside sources or transfer employees from other departments.
(f)	The Company may start an employee who is new in the position at a greater rate than as provided in (a) and (b) or(d) above and/or may advance the employee more quickly than required.
(g)	The selection of applicants for jobs in Group J and above shall ‘be
based on skill, experience, reliability and discipline record for suspension within the last two years. Where those factors are relatively equal, seniority shall govern. Evaluation of the candidates' qualifications shall be in the opinion of the Joint Candidate Selection
13
Committee for the department. Such selection Committee shall be comprised of two bargaining unit and two management members.
11.05	Only the original vacancy shall be posted and subsequent vacancies created by this opening shall be filled by the Company without
further posting.
11.06	For the purpose of this article, to be retained on the job an employee must be able after the usual trial period [not in excess of six (6) months for a Loom Fixer or Maintenance Man who is not fully qualified and ninety (90) working days for other classifications] to do the work required without lowering the standard quality and quantity requirements of the job. If it is established that the employee is not making satisfactory progress during the trial period the employee shall be demoted to his former job with full seniority (notwithstanding Article 13.01) and shall not be permitted to apply for the same job for a period of six (6) months. The Company shall then refer to the remaining applicants on the original posting before selecting or hiring a person to fill the vacancy.
11.07	The Company may hire a new employee into the classifications of loom fixer, loom fitter, loom technician, warp hanger, smash fixer, weaver, maintenance man or enterer without advertising the vacancy, provided that the Company either within the three (3) month period prior thereto has transferred an existing employee to that classification as a learner or if it has not, then immediately upon the hiring of the employee it shall advertise an additional vacancy, select an applicant in accordance with clause 11.04 and advise the Union of the name of the applicant selected. The applicant so selected shall be transferred within a period of three (3) months. By mutual agreement between the Company and the Union exceptions may be made to this clause.
Article 12:	Layoffs and Recalls
14
12.01	When it is necessary to reduce the working force in a
department, the employees affected will be given three (3) working days’ notice whenever possible.
12.02	In a reduction in the working force in a department, the
procedure outlined below will be followed:
(a)	layoff of probationary employees as required;
(b)	in a layoff which will last less than one (1) week then the most senior employee affected shall displace the most junior employee provided he possesses the necessary skill, competence and
efficiency to perform the work required:
(c)	in a layoff which is expected to last more than one (1) week:
(i)	The employee with the least seniority in the classification affected shall displace the employee with the least seniority in the next classification down or in the nearest lower classification which he has satisfactorily performed for a period of two (2) continuous months. The employee then displaced shall, in turn, have the right to displace the employee with the least seniority in the next or nearest lower classification which he has satisfactorily performed for a period of two (2) continuous months. In the event that more than one employee is displaced at the same time the one with the most seniority shall be entitled to exercise his right to move to the next or nearest lower classification first.
(ii)	Where an employee with seniority is in a layoff position he may displace a probationary employee in a department other -than his own, provided he possesses the necessary skill, competence and efficiency to perform the work required and has performed the work required for at least three (3) months.
(iii)	An employee with seniority who would otherwise be laid off shall be entitled to displace a junior employee in another department from a job which the senior employee has successfully performed for at least six (6) continuous months, provided he possesses the necessary skill, competence and efficiency to perform the work required to the current standards and provided that where the senior employee is thus qualified to bump more than one employee in a classification, he shall bump only into the job currently held by the most junior employee in that classification: or
15
failing that shall be entitled to a five (5) day trial period to
prove that he can perform one of the following jobs with the necessary skill, competence and efficiency: Creeler, Utility, Tube Cutter.
(iv)	in the event that the job of the employee with seniority subsequently becomes available that employee shall return to his former position and the Company will then have the option of recalling the probationary employee without job posting.
(v)	An employee who is redundant or has been bumped may bump a junior employee in a higher rated position if he has successfully performed that job for at least six (6) continuous months, provided ha possesses the necessary skill, competence and efficiency to perform the work required to the current standards.
(d)	No employee shall have the right under 12.02(b) or(c) to displace an employee with greater seniority.
(e)	An employee who takes a new job as a result of layoff shall be paid the rate for the job.
12.03	Employees who refuse to displace as above shall be laid off.
12.04	Employees shall be recalled in order of seniority for jobs in their departments which they have previously satisfactorily performed for a period of two (2) consecutive calendar months provided that such recall right shall not entitle the employee to a position higher rated than the original position the employee held prior to the commencement of the layoffs,
16
Refusal of Recall
12.05
(a)	Own Department
An employee recalled under Article 12.04 shall lose all seniority and shall be terminated if he does not return to work.
(b)	Other Department - Job Previously Performed
If an employee is recalled to a job which he has previously satisfactorily performed for at least six (6) consecutive months in a department other than his own he shall lose all seniority and shall be terminated if he does not return to work.
(c)	Other Department - Job not Previously Performed
If an employee is recalled to any job which he has not previously satisfactorily performed for six (6) consecutive months (one month in the case of Creeler, Utility, Tube Cutter) in a Department other than his own he
may refuse recall without loss of seniority and remain on recall.
12.06	An employee who has bumped into or accepted recall to a department other than his own shall retain seniority in his own department for twelve (12) months.
12.07	No new employee will be hired to fill a permanent vacancy while there are employees with seniority on layoff who have the basic physical, reading, writing and mathematical abilities for the job and who are willing to perform it and who agree to remain in that job for at least twelve
(12)	continuous months (which service requirement may be waived by the Company). It is recognized and agreed that there are some jobs such as Technician, Machinist, etc. which do require greater abilities than those outlined above and it may be necessary to hire a new employee when employees on layoff do not possess the necessary abilities required to perform the job without training.
17
12.08	No subcontract cleaning employer will be brought into a
department while there are employees in the Plant laid off from work who can and are willing to perform the cleaning within the time required.
Article 13:	Transfers
13.01	Employees who are permanently transferred through Job Posting from one department to another department shall hold and accumulate seniority in their former department for a period of three (3) calendar months after which their total seniority shall be transferred to the
new department.
13.02	In the event of an employee sustaining injury at work or becoming affected by an occupational disease during the course of his employment and becoming physically handicapped as a result thereof, every effort will be made by the Company to give such employee suitable employment as is available at the rate for such job. In such circumstances it is agreed that this type of placement will be made regardless of the seniority rights of others.
13.03	If an employee is transferred temporarily from his regular job to another job for the convenience of the Company and while work is still available on his regular job, he shall receive the rate of his regular job or the rate of the job to which he is transferred whichever is the higher.
13.04	Temporary transfers will be held through the job posting
procedures if the temporary vacancy is either for a definite or indefinite period which is known to be three (3) months or more in duration except where there are other employees with six (6) continuous months’ experience with the skills required. After three (3) months an employee so transferred may elect to return to his own job..
18
Article 14:	Leave of Absence
14.01	An employee desiring a leave of absence without pay from the Company shall apply in writing to the Plant Manager giving due proof of necessity. The Company will consider such request and, if approval is granted or not, the employee will be notified in writing within two (2) weeks of the request if the employee has requested leave at least one (1) month in advance and before making any travel or accommodation commitment. Such leave of absence shall not exceed three (3) months but the Company may consider further extension if a new application in writing is made by the employee before the termination of the original leave of absence.
14.02	The Company will grant, upon two (2) weeks' notice, to not more than two (2) employees at any one time, at the written request of the Union, temporary leave of absence without pay to delegates of the Union for attendance at Union conventions. Such leave of absence shall not exceed a total of thirty (30) employee working days in any one (1) calendar year provided this does not unreasonably interfere with operations.
14.03	Continuity of service and seniority shall accumulate to employees while they are on approved leave of absence, provided the
employee reports on or before the termination of such leave of absence.
14.04	Employees will be responsible for the total premiums of any welfare, pension or other benefits during their period of leave of absence.
14.05	An employee who overstays a leave of absence or uses his leave of absence for any other purpose than the purpose for which it is granted shall be considered to have resigned.
14.06	An employee who becomes pregnant must present a doctor's certificate stating the probable date of delivery, and shall request that she be granted a leave of absence without pay for a total of twenty (20) weeks. Additional leave up to a maximum of three (3) months may be granted at the
19
discretion of the Company upon presentation of a doctor's certificate showing the necessity therefor. An employee on such leave of absence upon advising the Company of her availability shall be reinstated in the job previously held if it still exists and if she has the necessary seniority, or in the first job vacancy for which she is qualified.
14.07	An employee who is off work due to an injury or illness
confirmed in writing by the WCB or a medical doctor prior to the scheduled vacation shutdown and whose enjoyment of vacation is thereby substantially impaired may request alternate vacation time equal to part or all of the vacation. Such request will not unreasonably be denied. This clause shall not be used to shift vacation time and the Company may cancel this clause at the end of the term of the Agreement if there has been abuse.
Article 15:	Bulletin Boards
15.01	The Company agrees to extend to the Union the privilege of using the bulletin boards located in the plant, provided that the use of said bulletin boards shall be restricted to the posting thereon only of such notices as have been signed by the President or other authorized signing officers of the Union and have received prior approval in writing on the face of the notice of the Company through the Plant Manager.
15.02	Only the following types of notices may be posted:
(a)	Notices of union elections, results of elections and union
appointments.
(b)	Notices of union meetings or of any other similar business of the
Union.
(c)	Notices of union recreational and social affairs.
Article 16:	Safety and Health
20
16.01	The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during working hours.
16.02	The Union agrees that it will cooperate in the enforcement of all safety rules and regulations of the Company.
The Company may, at any time, if doubtful of an employee's perform his job, request medical certification at the Company’s The Company may require a medical certificate from a medical (e.g. - orthopaedic surgeon, allergist, etc.) designated by the
A joint health and safety committee shall be constituted of an equal number of representatives of management and of the Union which shall identify potential dangers, recommend means of improving health and safety of employees, including health and safety programmes, and obtain information from the employer respecting the identification of hazards and health and safety experience. The committee shall meet at least once every three (3) months or more frequently as required. Time spent in such meetings is to be considered time worked. Minutes shall be taken of all meetings and copies shall be sent to the employer and the Union.
The Committee will be co-chaired.
16.03
fitness to expense. specialist Company.
16.04
consisting
Article 17:	Relationship
17.01	The Company agrees that all employees covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, become and remain members of the Union. New employees shall become and remain members of the Union after one (1) calendar week of employment.
17.02	The Company agrees that it will deduct from the earnings of employees who have completed their first week of employment the weekly dues upon receipt of written authorization of the employee concerned, and will
21
remit the monies so deducted for the next eleven (11) weeks to the Local Union, and thereafter to the Central Ontario Regional Office. Dues will be
deducted weekly and remitted monthly.
17.03	A receipt from the Union shall be considered a discharge to the Company for the amount so deducted.
17.04	The Company at the time of making such remittance to the Central Ontario Regional Office will specify the employees from whose pay such deductions were made.
17.05	The Local shall communicate the sum fixed as union dues to the Company in writing, signed by the President and the Secretary, and such communication shall authorize the Company to deduct such sums in accordance with Section 17.02, and all authorizations signed prior to this
contract are cancelled.
Article 18:	Hours of Work
18.01	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any
employee for regularly assigned hours or for any other hours per day or per week or days of work per week.
18.02	The normal hours of work for employees shall be eight (8) hours per day per shift for a total of forty (40) hours per week normally worked Monday to Friday at base rates. Regular work weeks of more than eight (8) hours per day or other than Monday through Friday may be adopted upon agreement of the parties. Shift work may be started at 11:00 p.m. on Sunday.
18.03	The Company will post shift schedules for all employees required to change from their regular shifts showing starting times no later
than the end of the Thursday evening shift of each week.
22
18.04	(a) Employees shall be allowed one (1) ten (10) minute rest period in each shift.
(b)	Employees shall be allowed a half hour or more unpaid lunch period except employees on a rotating three shift basis are to be granted a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period scheduled so that there is no interruption with production.
18.05	Employees who have left the Company's premises and who
are called back to work outside of their regular scheduled shift shall be paid not less than four (4) hours’ pay at their regular straight time hourly rate.
18.06	Employees who report for work at the regular starting time
of their shift, when they have not been notified previously not to do so, and for whom work is not available, shall be provided with four (4) hours of work or four (4) hours' pay in lieu thereof at their regular hourly rate of pay. If work is not available as a result of causes beyond the reasonable control of the Company, including machinery/or power failure or acts of God, the reporting allowances shall be only two (2) hours.
18.07	A shift premium of forty cents (40$) per hour will be paid while working on the third shift.
18.08	The Company may schedule production in any department(s)
for twelve (12) hour shifts Monday through Sunday according to the following:
(a)	Shifts will be twelve (12) hours duration, made up of four (4) crews for the week on a rotating basis, Monday through Sunday.
(b)	Hours worked Monday through Saturday inclusive, will be at the
regular straight time hourly rate. Sunday will be recognized from Saturday 7:00 p.m. through Sunday 7:00 p.m..
(c)	Straight time hours worked to the thirty-six (36) hours per week will be pro-rata the employee's regular hourly rate to maximum forty (40) hours per week. Pro-rata applied to the thirty-six (36) hours worked only.
23
(d)	Hours worked in excess of thirty-six (36) hours per week will be paid at time and one-half the employee's regular hourly rate.
(e)	Hours worked on Sunday shifts will be paid at two times the
employee's regular hourly rate.
(f)	Shift premiums do not apply to the first shift (days). A shift premium of forty-three cents (43$) per hour will be paid to the second shift.
(g)	Employees will be granted a twenty (20) minute paid break after the third, sixth, and ninth hour of work, scheduled so that there is no interruption with production.
(h)	Employees agree to work as scheduled (including Sunday) unless the individual employee makes arrangements for another employee to work in his place without additional cost to the Company.
(i)	Payment for statutory holidays listed in Article 22 shall depend on
whether the employee would, according to the normal schedule, have been scheduled to work on the holiday.
(i)	An employee who would otherwise have worked on the holiday shall be paid for the number of hours he would otherwise have worked at his regular straight time hourly
rate.
(ii)	An employee who would not otherwise have worked on the holiday shall be paid for eight (8) hours at the regular straight time hourly rate.
Article 19:	Overtime
19.01	(a) Employees will be paid at the rate of time-and-one-half the employee’s straight time hourly rate, or if he is working in a classification other than his own, at the job rate for that other classification, whichever is higher for all work performed in excess of their scheduled work day or-for the first eight (8) hours on a shift other than his scheduled shift where the shift schedule has been changed, except where the work on the new shift is in lieu of layoff or due to circumstances beyond the Company’s control or at the employee’s request. This shall not apply to employees who have worked a regular week-end shift and are called in to work during the week.
24
(b) An employee who is regularly scheduled to work on a Saturday and Sunday shall not be paid overtime under Article 19.01(a) for shifts worked Monday through Friday except for those hours worked in any one day which exceed the normal straight time hours for the shift on which the employee worked.
19.02	All work performed on Saturday will be paid for at the rate of time-and-one-half the employee's straight time hourly rate and all work performed on Sunday will be paid for at the rate of twice the employee's straight time hourly rate. The provisions of this clause shall not apply to work performed on a Saturday or Sunday as part of a regular shift.
19.03	Employees are expected to cooperate and perform overtime work when requested to do so by the Company. However, no employee will be penalized if unable to perform overtime work. An employee who accepts an overtime assignment but does not report without having a justifiable excuse may be subject to disciplinary action.
19.04	Overtime shall be distributed as equally and impartially as possible among those employees who normally perform the work requiring the overtime. It is recognized that this distribution will not result in a perfect balance at all times. Imbalances shall be corrected by future overtime
assignments.
19.05	All work performed by an eligible employee on a plant holiday, as listed in Article 22.01, shall be paid for at the rate of twice the employee's regular hourly rate except in the case of engineers where the Company has the option of substituting another day off in lieu of this overtime payment.
19.06	A meal allowance of five dollars ($5.00) will be paid to an
employee required to work more than two (2) hours overtime without notice prior to the end of the previous shift.
25
Article 20:	Wages
20.01	The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept, for the life of this Agreement, the schedule of wages attached hereto which forms part of this Agreement.
20.02	The Company shall have the right in its discretion to institute an incentive plan under which employees who are covered by the incentive plan would have an opportunity for increased earnings.
Article 21:	Vacations
21.01	The Company will grant a vacation with pay on the following
basis:
(a)	Employees with less than five (5) years’ service as of July 1st in
accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
(b)	Employees with five (5) years’ service but less than twelve (12) years’ service as of July 1st - three (3) weeks’ vacation and six percent (6%) vacation pay.
(c)	Employees with twelve (12) years’ service but less than twenty (20) years’ service as of July 1st - four (4) weeks’ vacation and eight percent (8%) vacation pay.
(d)	Employees with twenty (20) years’ service or more as of July 1st -five (5) weeks’ vacation and ten percent (10%) vacation pay.
21.02	Vacation pay shall be computed by the applicable percentage
of the employee's total earnings for work performed during the twelve-month period preceding June 30th of the current year.
21.03	The Company shall have the right to determine the time and
the length of the vacation plant shutdown and all employees who are entitled to vacation must take their vacation at that time unless the Company requires the employee to work during the vacation plant shutdown. Employees who are entitled to vacation in excess of that covered by the Plant Shutdown, may
26
take such vacation at a time mutually agreed upon and in the event of conflict preference for such vacation time will be on the basis of seniority, provided it does not interfere with plant operations.
21.04	The Company, at its discretion, may shut down the plant for
a vacation period, at which time the employees will take their vacation if not required to work during this period. Notification of vacation shutdown shall be posted by the Company no later than April 1st of each year.
Article 22:	Plant Holidays
22.01	The Company recognizes the following plant holidays
New Year's Day	Canada Day	Thanksgiving
Good Friday	Civic Holiday	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Labour Day	Boxing Day
plus four (4) floating holidays per year.
22.02	Employees after three (3) months of employment will receive payment for the above-named holidays regardless of the day on which the holiday fails at straight time hourly rate times their normal daily hours for the day in question provided that the employee works both his regular scheduled working day before and after the holiday. An employee will not be disqualified for payment for such holiday if he is absent (including lateness of more than one-half (V2) hour or early quit) on either or both of the qualifying days with the permission of the Company, or as a result of illness, in which case a doctor's certificate may be required, jury duty, bereavement in the immediate family, lateness in reporting for work of less than one-half hour or layoff, provided that in any event he must have been at work during the week preceding or succeeding the holiday.
22.03	Where a statutory holiday falls within the vacation period, employees who qualify under 22.02 above will be entitled to an additional
27
day's pay at their straight time hourly rate or a day off with pay in lieu. If the employee elects to take the day off then that day is to be selected by mutual agreement.
Article 23:	Bereavement
23.01	Should a death occur in the immediate family (wife, husband, child, mother, father, sister, brother, father-irvlaw or mother-in-law) of an employee with a minimum of sixty (60) days of seniority, the Company will
grant leave of absence with pay at his regular hourly rate.
23.02	Such leave of absence shall be granted provided:
(a)	that the employee concerned attends the funeral of the deceased:
(b)	such leave of absence occurred during the regular working days of
the employee concerned:
(c)	the leave of absence shall be for the days of the funeral and
mourning period and other days necessary for the employee
concerned to attend or arrange for the funeral but shall in no event be for a period of more than three (3) working days.
23.03	In the event of the death of an employee’s brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandchild, grandparents or spouse’s grandparents then the
employee shall be granted one (1) day’s leave of absence from work with pay provided he uses such time for the purpose of attending the funeral.
23.04	To qualify under this clause for a common law relationship, the employee must previously have changed his/her documents for insurance beneficiaries, etc., to the person now claimed, and to be on record as such in the Company’s personnel files.
Article 24:	Health and Welfare Plan
28
24.01	The Company will administer and support, subject to the
provisions contained on contracts covering same, the following Health and
Welfare Plan:
(a)	Life Insurance Plan - Effective February I, 1998: $20,000
- Effective January I, 1999: $25,000
The Company will contribute 100% of the present premiums of the above.
(b)	Ontario Health Insurance Plan
The Company will pay the premiums of the above.
(c)	Prescription Drug Plan ($0.35 deductible)
The Company will pay the cost of the above drug plan,
(d)	Weekly indemnity
The Company will pay full premium less ninety (90) cents per month contribution by each employee through payroll deduction for a weekly indemnity plan for all non- compensable accidents commencing on the first day of accident or hospitalization or an outpatient who undergoes a debilitating procedure or receives an anaesthetic,and for illness commencing on the eighth (8th) day of illness and continuing for fifteen (15) weeks at sixty percent (60%) of insurable earnings. Eligibility and benefits subject to the conditions of the Plan. U.I.C. premium rebate will go to the Company.
(e)	Dental Plan
The Company will pay 100% of the premiums for a Dental Plan providing benefit levels equivalent to Blue Cross Plan #7 subject to 80-20 co-insurance at the 1990 O.D.A. fee schedule. Effective February I, 1998 -1997 O.D.A. fee schedule; January 1, 1999 -1998 O.D.A. fee
schedule.
(f)	LTD Plan
The Company will arrange and administer a Long Term Disability Plan. Premiums will be deducted weekly from the pay of all employees who have completed probation commencing as soon as the policy can be arranged.
(g)	Employees are eligible to join the above Health and Welfare Plan during their third (3rd) calendar month of employment.
(h)	Where dividends are earned they shall be returned to the employee and
Company, pro rata to the payment of premiums.
24.02	Where an injury at work requires that the employee lose time
from work on the day of the injury he will be paid according to the Workers'
29
Compensation Act, which states that effective April 1,1985, the employer is required by the Act to pay full wages on the day of injury.
Article 25:	Supply of Apparel
25.01	The Company shall supply and maintain overalls to
employees who work in the Mixing Department.
25.02	The Company will provide up to three (3) pairs of overalls and smocks per employee per year to Loom Fixers, Warp Hangers, Cleaners, Fitters, Finishers and Maintenance Mechanics. In consideration of the Company supplying this clothing the employees will be responsible for repairing and cleaning same.
25.03	It is clearly understood that the said clothing is to be worn only on the premises of the Company and is not to be removed from the Company's premises except for cleaning and repairs.
Article 26:	Safety Equipment
26.01	The Company agrees to pay for each employee who has
completed the probationary period the cost of safety shoes to a maximum
cost to the Company of $75.00 per year. Effective during the second year of this Agreement the safety shoe allowance shall be $85.00 per year.
In the event that an employee does not remain with the Company for a period of twelve (12) months following any such contribution, then he shall reimburse the Company on a pro rata basis.
Employees working in Finishing, cleaners In the Weave Room and Mixing Department may request an additional safety shoe allowance to a maximum of $75.00 depending on the time since the last payment and the amount of abnormal deterioration in the shoes. Effective during the second year of this Agreement the safety shoe allowance shall be $85.00 per year.
30
26.02	Personally fitted safety glasses (including prescription
lenses) will be supplied by the Company in areas where safety glasses must
be worn all of the time and to those employees who require prescription
lenses and whose work requires safety glasses some of the time. The
selection of frames will be as supplied by the Company. Replacement cost
by the Company will be:	After one year - 0
After two years - 50 percent After three years - 75 percent After four years -100 percent.
In other areas the Company will provide appropriate (i.e. non- prescription lenses and not personally fitted) safety glasses as required.
31
Article 27:	Jury Duty/Crown Witness
27.01	Any employee who is required to serve on a jury or is
subpoenaed as a Crown witness shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and his normal pay computed at his normal hourly rate, including shift premium but excluding other premiums, for hours lost from work up to forty (40) hours in a week. An employee must notify the Company within two (2) working days after receipt of notice of selection for Jury Duty or subpoena. In order to be eligible for such payments the employee must furnish a written statement from the proper public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received.
Article 28:	Tool Allowance
28.01	Employees required to supply their own tools shall be given
a tool allowance by December 1st of each complete calendar year of service, in the following amounts:
Maintenance and Machinist	$125.00
Loom Fixer, Loom Fitter,	
Loom Technician, Roving Department Fixers & Fitters	62.50
Weave Room, Warp Hangers & Knotter Fixer, Preparation Department Fitters & Fixers	31.25
Such allowance shall be paid upon proof of purchase <^f new tools for purpose of replacement of broken or worn out tools or replacement of proven loss or need for new tools.
Article 29:	Termination
29.01	This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from
January 1,1998, through December 31si, 1999. Changes negotiated in the
32
1997 negotiations shall be effective from date of ratification only, except as expressly provided.
29.02	Either party can give notice that it wishes to open negotiations for a new contract within three (3) months of the expiry date, and these negotiations shall start during the month of September, 1999 or within such longer time as may be mutually agreed upon by the parties.
29.03	if, pursuant to such negotiations, an agreement on the
renewal or modification of this Agreement is not reached prior to the current expiry date, it shall expire unless it is extended for a specified period pending negotiations by the mutual consent of the parties.
IN TOKEN WHEREOF the parties have signed on the 15th day of May 1998.
BAYEX, Division of Bay Mills Limited	Union of Needletrades,
- Midland	Industrial andTextile Employees
Gerrit vanderWeg
Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Toby Dusome
Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau
William Charters
33
Group
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
0
P
Appendix "A"
Job Classification Grouping and Rates
Job Classification Creeler, Tube Cutter Grader 1
Enterer 1, Utility, Winder
Finisher 1, Cutter 1
Service Person, Finisher 2, Roving Operator, Cutter 2, Grader 2
Weaver, Stock Person, Supply Person 1, Cutter 3, Enterer 2, Warper Operator
Maintenance 1, Slasher Person 1, Mixer
Cutter 4, Truck Driver 1, Smash Fixer
Preparation Fixer, Roving Fixer, Slasher Person 2, Finisher 3, Warp Hanger, Assistant Shipper
Maintenance 2, Truck Driver 2, Supply Person 2, Knotter Fixer
Fixer, Maintenance 3, Finisher 4, Engineer 4
Fitter
Loom Technician, Roving Technician Licensed Machinist Licensed Millwright?
Maximum Rates Jan 1/98 13.51 13.73 0.00 14.14 14.35 14.54
14.76
14.97
15.18
15.48
15.80 16.23
16.81 17.87 18.20 19.34
Jan 1/99 13.81 14.03 0.00 14.44 14.65 14.84
15.06
15.27
15.48
15.78
16.10
16.53
17.11
18.17
18.50
19.64
1Truck Driver 2 will receive an addltonal twenty cents (204) per hour as per Letter of Understanding.
^he Licensed Millwright rate shall only be paid to those persons licensed as Millwrights. Registered Millwright Aoprentices shall be paid according to the schedule In Appendix "B".
34
NOTES: (re: Rate of Pay)
New employees hired from outside the Company shall start at ninety cents (90$) Per hour less than the current rate for the lowest department job rate and shall receive a ten cent (1(H) per hour increase after thirty (30) days and thereafter a progression of twenty cents (20$) every two months to the job rate.
Shift Premiums: 5 day work week
Second Shift - thirty-five cents (35$)
Third Shift - forty cents (40$)
Loom Fixers: Who fix more than one type of loom will be paid an additional twenty cents (20$) per hour.
Lead Hands: additional one dollar ($1.00) per hour Training Premium:
A training premium of twenty cents (20$) per hour will be paid for such training hours to an employee who, In addition to continuing his normal operating function, is assigned to train another employee(s) for a continuous day or more at a time.
35
Group
A
D
G
H
J
D
F
G
I
J
K
L
M
N
D
F
J
M
N
B
D
F
G
D
H
D
E
F
J
L
D
E
F
G
I
Job Progression ANDWAGE Rates
Maximum Rates
Jan 1/97 Jan 1/98 Jan 1/99
Preparation Department Creeler, Tube Cutter Enterer 1, Utility, Winder
Stock Person, Enterer 2, Warper Operator
Slasher Person 1
Preparation Fixer, Slasher Person 2
Weave Room Utility
Service Person Weaver Smash Fixer Warp Hanger Knotter Fixer Loom Fixer Fitter
Loom Technician
$13.21	$13.51	$13.81
13.84	14.14	14.44
14.46	14.76	15.06
14.67	14.97	15.27
15.18	15.48	15.78
13.84	14.14	14.44
14.24	14.54	14.84
14.46	14.76	15.06
14.88	15.18	15.48
15.18	15.48	15.78
15.50	15.80	16.10
15.93	16.23	16.53
16.51	16.81	17.11
17.57	17.87	18.17
Roving Department Utility
Roving Operator Roving Fixer Roving Fitter Roving Technician
Inspection Department
Grader 1
Utility
Service Person, Grader 2 Stock Person
13.84
14.24
15.18
16.51
17.57
13.43
13.84
14.24
14.46
14.14
14.54
15.48
16.81
17.87
13.73
14.14
14.54
14.76
14.44
14.84
15.78
17.11
18.17
14.03
14.44
14.84
15.06
Mixing Department
Utility
Mixer
13.84	14.14	14.44
14.67	14.97	15.27
Finishing Department Utility Finisher 1 Finisher 2 Finisher 3 Finisher 4
13.84
14.05
14.24
15.18
15.93
14.14
14.35
14.54
15.48
16.23
14.44
14.65
14.84
15.78
16.53
Cutting Department Utility
Cutter 1 Cutter 2 Cutter 3 Cutter 4
13.84
14.05
14.24
14.46
14.88
14.14
14.35
14.54
14.76
15.18
14.44
14.65
14.84
15.06
15.48
36
Group
D
F
H
K
L
0
P
D
F
J
I
K
D
G
K
Job Progression andWage rates
Maintenance Department Utility
Service Person Maintenance 1 Maintenance 2 Maintenance 3 Licensed Machinist Licensed Millwright?
Shipping Department Utility
Service Person Assistant Shipper Truck Driver 1 Truck Driver 2*
Supply Room Department Utility
Supply Person 1 Supply Person 2
Maximum Rates Jan 1/97 Jani/98 Jan
13.84	14.14
14.24	14.54
14.67	14.97
15.50	15.80
15.93	16.23
17.90	18.20
19.04	19.34
13.84	14.14
14.24	14.54
15.18	15.48
14.88	15.18
15.50	15.80
13.84	14.14
14.46	14.76
15.50	15.80
^he Licensed Millwright rate shall only be paid to those persons licensed as Millwrights. Registered Millwright Apprentices shall be paid according to the schedule in Appendix "B".
‘Truck Driver 2 will receive an additional twenty cents (20<t) per hour as per Letter of Understanding.
37
1/99
14.44
14.84
15.27
16.10
16.53
18.50
19.64
14.44
14.84
15.78
15.48
16.10
14.44
15.06
16.10
Appendix "B"
Apprenticeship
If the Company wishes to fill a position of Millwright Apprentice it shall post the job in the normal procedure stating any minimum requirements and
academic or aptitude testing which it will require.
The successful applicant will be chosen on the basis of skill, aptitude, academic qualifications and work record. Where these qualifications are
relatively equal seniority shall govern.
progression through the wage scale shall be as follows:
Maximum Rates
Starting Rate
After 90 working day trial period
After 1 year as apprentice
After 2 years as apprentice
After 3 years as apprentice
Certified Journeyman Millwright
Premium rate for Certified Journeyman Millwright with 1 or more year s experience after Certification
Jan 1/97 Jan 1/98 Jan 1/99 12.86	13.16	13.46
14.36	14.66	14.96
14.66	14.96	15.26
14.95	15.25	15.55
16.14	16.44	16.74
17.57	17.87	18.17
19.04	19.34	19.64
38
Letter of Understanding
Re:	Training
It is recognized by the parties that it is necessary to install and maintain new equipment and machinery in order to compete with larger and newer production facilities around the world. The Company will notify the Union promptly after the decision to add new equipment or machinery. It is also recognized that the maintenance and/or operation of such equipment may require new skills and knowledge not already possessed by the employees presently performing comparable duties.
The Company will make reasonable efforts to train existing employees to perform this work.
An employee who is unwilling to take such training or unable to
satisfactorily perform such work after a reasonable amount of training will be retained in his present classification as long as there is work available which he can perform full time and thereafter shall be dealt with according to the Layoff and Recall provisions of Article 12.
Bayex, Division of Bay Mills Limited - Midland
Gerrit vanderWeg
Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Union of Needletrades, Industrial andTextile Employees
Tobey Dusome
Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau
William Charters
39
Letter of Understanding
The Truck Driver will be paid a twenty (20) cents per hour premium in consideration of his unusual hours of work.
Bayex, Division of Bay Mills limited - Midland
Gerrit vanderWeg
Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Union of Needletrades, Industrial andTextile Employees
Tobey Dusome Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau William Charters
40
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re:	Job Security
The Union and employees agree that employees may be required to sign such secrecy and non-competition clauses as the Company may require from time to time.
Bayex, Division of Bay Mills Limited - Midland
Gerrit vanderWeg Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Union of Needletrades, Industrial andTextile Employees
Tobey Dusome Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau William Charters
41
Letter of Understanding
Re:	Article 18.07
Any eight (8) hour shift which commences at or after 10:30 a.m. but
before 8:00 p.m. will be paid the second shift premium.
Any eight (8) hour shift which commences at or after 9:00 p.m. but before 5:00 a.m. will be paid the third shift premium.
BAYEX, Division of Bay Mills Limited - Midland
Gerrit vanderWeg Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Union of Needletrades, Industrial andTextile Employees
Tobey Dusome Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau William Charters
42
Letter of Intent - Re: Article 21.03
Shutdown Scheduling:
“The Company will endeavour to schedule two weeks of the vacation shutdown at the end of July. If this is not possible there will be advanced consultation with the Union.”
BAYEX, Division of Bay Mills Limited - Midland
Gerrit vanderWeg Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Tobey Dusome Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau William Charters
43
Letter of Intent
The parties may agree to an aptitude test for a job in which case any employee seeking that job by layoff, recall or job posting may be required to pass the aptitude test.
Bayex, Division of Bay Mills Limited	Union of Needletrades,
Midland	Industrial andTextile Employees
Gerrit vanderWeg Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Tobey Dusome Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau William Charters
44
Letter of Intention
Re:	Supervisors Working
It is the Company objective to minimize the amount of time spent by supervisors performing work otherwise performed by the bargaining unit. It is recognized by both parties that it may be necessary for supervisors to do such work on occasion. If there are complaints, the parties will meet to discuss them.
BAYEX, Division of Bay Mills Limited	Union of Needle-trades,
- Midland	Industrial andTextile Employees
Gerrit vanderWeg
Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Tobey Dusome
Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau William Chatters
45
Letter of Understanding
Re:	Hiring Machinists
It is agreed that any applicant with a valid “certificate of qualification" or "certificate of apprenticeship" issued by the government of Ontario in a
metal related trade may be hired into the position of machinist as outlined in our contract.
Bayex, Division of Bay Mills Limited - Midland
Gerrit vanderWeg Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Union of NEEDLETRADES, Industrial and Textile Employees
Tobey Dusome Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau William Charters
46
Letter of Intent
Re:	Lead Hands (effective December 7,1987)
1)	Lead Hands shall be selected by the Company.
2)	Selection shall be made on the basis of required skills only.
3)	Seniority will not be a factor for selection except selected applicant
must have one year minimum seniority.
4)	Appointment of Lead hands will be done by the Company following the voluntary acceptance of the job by the selected employee.
5)	The Company has the right to replace a selected Lead hand with a different person selected by the Company, if in the opinion of the Company, the Lead Hand holding the position is not performing satisfactorily.
6)	The Company may discontinue the practise of using Lead Hands, either partially or fully.
7)	Lead Hand rate will be paid at one dollar ($1.00) per hour for total hours worked while performing lead hand duties. There will be no compounding of the lead hand rate.
Bayex, Division of Bay Mills Limited - Midland
Gerrit vanderWeg
Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees
Tobey Dusome
Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau William Charters
47
Letter OF INTENT
Re:	Article 22.01
The Company and the Union will agree on the thirteen (13) days to be scheduled as Plant Holidays in each year.
Bayex, Division of Bay Mills Limited - Midland
Gerrit vanderWeg
Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees
Tobey Dusome Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau WilliamCharters
48
Letter of Understanding
Re:	Article 5.04
The Company agrees to three (3) additional stewards for the lifetime of this Agreement.
Bayex, Division of Bay Mills Limited	Union of Needletrades,
- Midland	Industrial andTextile Employees
Gerrit vanderWeg Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Tobey Dusome Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau
William Charters
49
Letter of Understanding
Re:	Work Responsibilities
The parties recognize that:
1.	Our competition today is global.
2.	There is an increasing pressure to reduce prices for our products.
3.	There is a need for continuous improvement in production
efficiencies.
4.	The Company is investing in new equipment and training as well as research and development, and new marketing initiatives.
5.	It is part of every employees job to help out in work primrally
performed by other employees when time and skills permit.
Bayex, Division of Bay Mills Limited - Midland
Gerrit vanderWeg
Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Union of Needletrades, Industrial AND Textile Employees
Tobey Dusome
Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau William Charters
50
Letter of Understanding
Re:	Stock Persons
The Stock Person positions in both the Preparation Department and the Inspection Department were upgraded from Job Group G to J in the 1997 negotiations. It is agreed that the incumbents at that time would be grandfathered into labour grade J because of their extensive experience in the position as long as they remain in the Stock Person classification.
The grandfathering of those persons is not a precedent by which future applicants for those positions shall become entitled to the position on the basis that their qualifications were as good as the qualifications of those persons grandfathered in 1997.
The Company shall prepare new job descriptions outling the amended job duties and qualifications for both of the positions.
Bayex, Division of Bay Mills Limited	Union of Needletrades,
- Midland	Industrial and Textile Employees
Gerrit vanderWeg
Richard Marion Bruce Ogilvie
Tobey Dusome
Ted Robertson Bonnie Woods Tim Belliveau
William Charters
BAYEX.
51