COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
OWENS CORNING CA IIADA GUELPH,ONTAR b
and
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES.lt [3USTRIAL and TEXTILE EMPLOYEESJUNITE)
and its
LOCAL1305 GUELPH GLi !SS PLANT
JUNE 1st, 1991
00856 (07)
INDEX
ARTICLE	SUBJECT
General Purpose ........
I	Recognitionand UnionSecurity
II	Exclusions................
V	Reservationof Company Righis
J	Nondiscrimination^ Conditionp of
Employment.............
Jl	Addresses ..............
Jl I	UnionActivities.........
/Ill	Representation..........
X	Grievance Procedure ....
X	Meetings................
Cl	Seniority...............
Cll	Transfers and Promotions
Oil	Reduction inWork Force.
<IV	Discontinued Jobs.......
XV	Recall..................
XVI	Job Posting.............
XVII	Wages, Hourscf Work. Lunchjund
Rest Periods...........
XVIII	Overtime................
XIX	Reportingfor Work andEmerfloncy
Call-in.........................
XX	Shift PremiumsandContinuo#!
Shift Premiums.........
XXI	NotificationofAbsence ....
XXII	Absences................
6
7
7
a
9
10
10
14
17
17
24
35
39
39
41
45
48
50
51
52 52
3
ARTICLE
ir^iOEx
SUBJECT
XXIII	Leave of Absence ..................
XXIV	Injury and Disability .............
XXV	Safety, Healthand Security ........
XXVI	Recognized Holidays................
XXVII	Vacation Plan ..	.............
XXVIII	VacationAllocatiOiia..............
XXIX	Training and Educational Meetings ..
XXX	Benifit Coverage..................
XXXI	Pension Plan .....................
XXXII	Disposable Coveral b .............
XXXIII	Terms and Conditions, Modifications,
Renewal and Terminations...........
Appendix TV ....	.............
PAGE NO.
....	53
....	58
....	58
.... 60
....	63
.... 66
....	73
....	74
....	78
....	79
81
4
COLLECTIVEAGREE^ENT
This Agreement is made and entered into this 1st day of June 1997.
BETWEEN:
OWENS CORNING CANADA, a Corporation existing under the laws of the Dominion of xnada, with a Glass Plant in Guelph, Ontario, respectively referred to in this agreement as "Company"
OF THE FIRSTPA^T
• and ■
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL and TEXTILE EMPLOYEES (UNITE), hereinafter referred to in this agreement as "International Union" and its Local 1305 Owens Coming Canada, Guelph Gli Is Plant, respectively referred to in this agreement as “LQcal Union" with said "InternationalUnion"
OF THE SECOND FJART
WITNESSETH:
The partieshereto mutually agree aHfollows:
5
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PURPOSE
This agreement is entered into by the parties in order to provide for orderly collectiv t bargaining relations between the Company and the Unior i. It is the desire o1 both parties to secure prompt and fair disposition of grievances, to eliminate interruption of wor < and interference with the efficient operation of the Comp ?ny's business and to maintain fair wages, hours and working conditions for employees within the bargainingunit.
Our goal is to provide quality products and services that meet our customer expeditions and through continuous improvement effortsenhan te the competitive position of the plant, guided by the Marties' most recent Terms of Reference document.
ARTICLE II
RECOGNITION An(d UNION SECURITY
2:01 The Company reci and exclusive bargaining hours of work and other Company's hourly-rated emi employees excluded In Articl
dgnizes the Union as the sole i gent with respect to wages, forking conditions, for the piloyees save and except those sill.
2:02 The word ‘employTV ur "employees’ wherever used in this Agreement sj all mean any or all of the employees, as the case ma ' be, in the bargaining unit as defined in section 2:01 uUess the context otherwise provides.
2:03 Where the masculine pronoun is used it shall include and referto the feminine pronoun.
2:04 The Company agre from the wages payable to amount equivalent to the Un in writing by the Ontario Joijii deductions to the Financial Council ol the International month in which the deduction
5s to deduct once per month each seniority employee an on dues as may be specified t Council, and to remit such Secretary of the Ontario Joint Jnlon prior to the end of the is made.
The first deduction will be made fro Hie wages payable to each employee after the completio If the first sixty (60) calendar days of his probationary p rid. This deduction, which will be credited by the Unto Is the employee's Union Initiation Fee, will be remitted lie Joint Council at the same time as the first regular mo tlv dues.
Regular monthly deductions will cctnmence in the first calendar month following completion of the probationary period.
Should an employee be terminated ftjr any reason prior to the completion of his probationary period, any deduction made under this section shall be returned to the employee.
2:05 The Company shall, at the! time of making the said remittance, supply a statement ;howing the name of each employee from whose pay suet deduction has been made. A copy of this statement will be left in the Union's plant mailbox.
ARTICLE III EXCLUSIONS
3:01 The term "employee" as us id in this agreement Includes all employees of the Compa ly with the exception of foreman, persons above the rar < of foreman, office staff, guards, technicians, technical rnaff and field service staff.
ARTICLE IV
RESERVATION OF COMPANY RIGHTS
4:01 The Union acknowledges thpt it is the right of the Company to :
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
(b)	Hire, promote, demote, transfer! suspend, discipline, or discharge for proper cause, ny employee subject to the right of the employee to S bmit a grievance.
•7
(c) Operate and manage accordance with its obi from time to time, ruli with the provisions oftt i
Is business in all respects in gations and to make and alter, s and regulations consistent e Agreement.
(d) Determine the numbdr and location of plants, the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, types and locations of machines and tools to be used, process of manufacturing and designing of its products, and the control of materials and dsrts to be incorporated in the products produced.
4:02 Employees outsid not perform the physical or performed by employees where such work is for the tion, Investigation, experimef'lati
ot the bargaining unit shall nanual work which is normally the bargaining unit, except 3lirpose of instruction, inspec-" ion or development.
4:03 The Union recogh ies the Company practice of having outside contractor# Iperform work in or about the plant. The Company will, l"<>wever, maintain its policy of not using outside contractors to replace bargaining unit employees unless it is deemed by the Company to be essential.
4:04 The above functions shall be exercised in a manner consistent with and subject to the other provisions of the Agreement.
ARTjH
NONDISCRIMINATI OF EMPI
ON and CONDITIONS LOYMENT
Nondiscrimination
5:01 There shall be ni discrimination against any employee for reason of age] race, creed, colour, sex, marital status, handicap as defined In the Ontario Human Rights Code as amended from time to time, or membership in any organization in accordance with the applicable laws of the Province of Ontario.
B
Conditions of Employment
5:02
(a)	Each and every employee h'a=| <he responsibility to adhere to all plant safety rul^s as a condition of employment.
(b)	Each and every employee MS a responsibility to attend work on a regular basis as a condition of continued employment.
a period of twelve
the last date disciplinary actlonjwas issued for attendance problems and where tHe employee has corrected his attendance, all sup references to the disciplinary action taken employee's record.
ARTICLE VI ADDRESSES
6,01 The following addresses w|ll be used for mailing of correspondence between the parties:
To the Company:
Owens Corning,
P.O. Box 3603,
Guelph, Ontario,
N1 H6P6
To the Union:
Unioncf Needletrades, Industrial andTextile Employees (UNITE),
15 Gervals Drive,
Suite700, Don Mills,Ontafjo M3C1Y8
9
artIPle vii
UNION ACTIVITIES
7:01 Members of the l-nion shall not, on Company time, conduct Union activities' except as expressly provided in this Agreement, nors^l Union meetings of any kind be held at any time on company premises without the consent of the Company.
7:02 Union bulletins and notices may be posted on bulletin boards provided by he Company. It is understood that any notice or bulletin losted shall not contain any language that might be detrimental to the Company, its representatives or any employee as per the accepted plant guidelines
7:03 The Union shall nit distribute or present pamphlets, circulars, or petitions, on Company premises during working hours without the approval of the Human Resources representative.
artiPLe VIII REPRESENTATION
8:01 The Company shai recognize a UNION COMMITTEE consisting of five 15) members, who shall also serve as the Negotiating Committee. In the event of a layoff the Committee Members shall have top seniority provided there is work available which they are qualified and willing to do at the established rate of wages for such work. The Union shall notify tie Company, in writing, of the names of the Union Committee members and of the names and effective deM changes in the Onion
Committee.
8:02
(a)	The President of the request, and subject to
(c), be placed by the Cc be paid the Day Schedu
ocal Union shall upon his he limitations cf 8:02 (b) and mpany on Day Schedule and e rate for his classification.
(b)	In order to be on
Day Schedule, the_____________________________________
the following classifications:
Forming Dept.:	Day Binder Miller
Day Bushing l-Jeat Control
FabricationA:	Any Classification
Fabrications
Maintenance:
Winder - Fabrication B Milled Fiber Operation
Any Reinforcinb Mat classification when these classifications are on 'M', 'S’, or T spiff schedules
Any ciassificatjbn except Continuous Shift Mechanic and Continuous Shift Electrician
Materials Distribution: Storeskeeper
(c)	If the President requests to be placed on Day Schedule and he does not occuf y one of the classifi-
cations noted in (b) above, the g will be delayed until he transfers sifications noted in (b) through the provisions of Article XII and Article XVI,
anting of his request into one of the cias-
8:03 The Company shall recognlie a steward body to
be allocated to a department or departments as follows:
(a)	Forming Departments Steward) per shift, This steward will also represent the Forming Continuous Shift Maintenance employees.
(b)	Fabrication 'A' Department: 1 §]fward per shift to a maximum of four in the deparnPnt. These stewards will also representthe FabrlcatlT ‘A'Continuous Shift Maintenance employees.
(c)	Fabrication 'B' Department: 1 {steward per shift in Reinforcing Mat and 1 steward per shift in Roving. The Roving Steward will also represent other Falbiicaliimni 'B' operations. TheJe stewards will also represent the Fabrication ‘Ef Continuous Shift Maintenance employees.
(d)	Materials Distribution cfepartment: 1 Steward.
(e)	Maintenance MeehsnijPBI Department: 1 Steward tc represent Day Schedul|e employees.
(f)	Maintenance Electrical Department: 1 Steward tc represent Electricians.
8:04 Where a new Dep^i one of the current Departm changes in the Steward repr of discussion between the provided agreement is react|(
.rtrmnt is put into operation or snts is changed, the matter o: esertation shall be the subject par ies and changes made,, led.
8:05 In the event a Department other than the may continue as a Steward ing for not more than thiit new Steward is selected, wl
Steward is transferred to a department he represents, he for the Department he is leav-(30) calendar days or until e Chever is shorter.
8:06 The. Union shall ncjtify the Company in writing o the names of the Stewards and the Department each Steward represents, and of tie names and effective dates of any changes of Stewards
8:07 Employees shall ni bers of the Local Union Cc they have been employed fo
i ue eligible to serve as mem-mrr.lttee or as stewards until a period of one (1) year.
8:08 Committeemen and Stewards, as well as othei employees, have their regul ar duties to perform on behal' of the Company and shall n it leave their regular duties oi their work area without firs obtaining the permission 01 their foremen or supervisor. They shall also not entei another work area without fust obtaining the permission ot that area's foreman or supervisor. Upon completing theii business In another area, th ay shall check out of the area through the area's foreman or supervisor. The provisions of this section shall also 4pply to International Unior Representatives.
8:09 Committeemen or themselves from their reg lengths of time to attend Agreement. In accordance
Stewards shall not absent dlar duties for unreasonable o matters pertaining to the with this understanding, the
12
Company shall compensate Commi at their regular rates of pay, for tin working hours on business which under the provisions of the Agreemar i.
teemen or Stewards e spent during their wires their attention
8:10 On the occasions wner Committee meets with the Company sentatives, for the purpose of negoti; Collective Agreement, the Company Committee Members their normal ea of twelve (12) hours in any twenty-' the deliberations between the parties bers to be off work for a complete st four hour period adjacent to the meeting.
me Local Union or Company repre-ting a renewal of the shall reimburse the nings to a maximum hour period, should require said mem-ift during the twenty-
It will be the Company’s intent to Mmburse Committee Members for their normal earnings When they attend a negotiating meeting on the followir9 basis. The rule of .thumb to be applied is to ensure thl feach member has a minimum period of 12 hours rest pr( Ceding and following each meeting, therefore any regull scheduled hours of work falling in this time frame will be Tlmbursed.
Further, in the event the negotiating Ffchedule is such that the Committee Member would attehP meetings on all of his regular days of rest, the Complfty will reimburse him for the first scheduled shift after their meetings. This only applies to Continuous Shift Committer Members.
8:11 At any meeting between tHIe Company and the Local Union Committee, such committee shall be entitled to have present a representative or rfeoresentatives of the Ontario Joint Council.
8:12 If an employee is called irto any office for the purpose of formal discipline, or for d bersonal or fact finding discussion that may lead direc[ly to discipline, the employee may request a Union C ommittee member, preferably a Union Steward, and Ibch request will be granted.
(a) The employee will be informed dlf the purpose of such discussion, including the posdlhHi*'/ nf subsequent
disciplinary action.
13
(b) If the employee decl employee must confirn
nes such representation the his decision in writing.
8:13 A warning letter wil concerned while at work ung Company, however, may employee's residence if circi
be delivered to the employee er normal circumstances. The direct a warning letter to the iimstances so warrant.
ARfjpLE IX
GRIEVANCE! PROCEDURE
9:01 It is the desire of employees be adjusted ? employee has any complaii cuss with the Company, he immediate Foreman who wi1 S is understood that the F^1 considered to be precedent retting
te parties that complaints of 3 quickly as possible. If an or question he wishes to dis-shall first take it up with his attempt to solve the problem, eman's solution shall not be
9:02 It shall be optional lib me Company to decline to consider any grievance, thdplleged circumstance cf which occurred more th an fourte^R (14) calendar days (excluding recognized holidays anriwacations) prior to Its presentation.
9:03 The following grieftnce procedure steps shall apply. For the purpose of Tis Article the term "working day" Is defined as a day o I which all parties concerned are scheduled to work.
Step 1: An employee who pblieves he has a grievance shall first present it to his Stward, in writing, on the forms supplied by the Union. The steward and the Grievor shall present the grievance to the Prievor's Foreman.
Within three (3) working day was received, the Departrm shall hold a meeting with the Steward. Within three (3) wbi the hearing, the Departmen shall give his decision in writi
after the date the grievance nt Manager or his designate Foreman, the Grievor and his rking days after the date of it Manager or his designate
hg-
TI4
Step 2: If the decision of the Department Manager or his designate is not satisfactory, an app ral may be lodged by the Union Committee with the Huma t Resources Managei or his designate within five (5) working days after the date the decision was received.
Within ten (10) working days after tne date the appeal was received, the Human Resources Ma lager or his designate shall arrange a meeting date to d scuss the grievance between Management represe itatives, the Union Committee and the employee's St ward. Within five (5) working days after the date of the rjieeting, the Company shall give itS decision in writing.
Step 3: If the Company's decision Union may, by written notice withi days after the date the Company's advise the Company of its intent to In said written notice, the Union s nees to act as sole arbitrator to hear
B not satisfactory, the i thirty (30) calendar \ ecision was received, proceed to arbitration, all propose its nomi-the grievance.
Should the Union's nominees bfe unacceptable, the Company shall propose alternate Jrames. If the parties cannot agree on the selection of an arbitrator within fifteen (15) calendar days after the date the Union's written notice was received, either party may request the Ontario Minister of Labour to appoint one The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding cjn both parties.
9:04 The time limits specified inlthe foregoing steps ot the grievance procedure may bel extended by mutual agreement using the forms provideqfor this purpose.
9:05 No grievance may be sutlMtted to an arbitrator (other than a policy grievance or a grievance alleging improper discharge) which has not been properly carried through all previous stages of the grievance procedure, and no person may be appointed a an arbitrator who has taken part in an attempt to settle the grievance. The expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared jointly by the Company and the Union.
15
vai
In the event a
tor for arbitration, the arbitjr; subtract from, modify or ame
nc< is referred to anarbltra-shall not alter, add to, id a y part of the Agreement.
9:07 At any stage of thsjgrievance procedure, indue ing arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assi: tance of the employee or employees concerned and an witnesses. All reasonable arrangements shall be made t permit the conferring parties view disputed operations or nesses.
ib have access to the Plant t to confer with necessary wf
9:08 A policy grievance Company and the Union ma) at Step 2 and failing its sati: be referred to an arbitrator as
arising directly between th be submitted by either part factory disposition may the provided in this Article.
9:09
(a)
A discharged employee snail be allowed to confe with a Committee mem aer before leaving Compan premises and he may piesent a grievance, in writing to his Committeeman. The Committeeman may the: or within five (5) calendar days after the day of dis charge (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday, recognize' holidays or vacations) p esent such grievance to tb Human Resources Manager or his designate. Thi grievance shall then be processed in accordance witl the procedure outlined ir Step 2 of the grievance pro cedure except that Mar agement shall give its deci sion in writing within thr se (3) calendar days (exclu sive of Saturday, Suncay, recognized holidays o vacations) after the day the meeting was held to dis cuss the employee's dlsdharae.
(b) The discharge of an <?tn| 'uyee who has acquired seniority rights may beset ed underthe grievance or arbitration procedure by
(i)	Confirming Management's action in dismissinf the employee.
(ii)	Reinstatingthe employee with full compensat'd
' '	■ lost.
for time l
(iii) By any other arr deemed just and eq
rngement which may be iitable.
1A
any grievance not answered within the time limits defined in this Article shall be considered settled in favour of the Grlevor or withdrawn by the Union.
ARTICLE X MEETINGS
10:01 The Negotiating Committefe shall meet with the Company, as provided in Article XXkll Ifor the purpose c£ negotiating amendments to or modifications <£ any provision cf the Agreement.
The Union '
Company on matters
Agreement, and to negotiate amendments to, or modifications of any provision of the agreement. Any amendments or modifications will be suitablv Dusted for 30 calendar days.
10:03 The Union Committee shall be entitled to have a representative or representatives of the International Union present at any meetingwith ttie Company.
10:04 Employees at one plant iSfation shall not attend Union Committee - Company me^lngs at another plant location either as an International Mhlon representative or in any other capacity.
10:05 Meetings between the parties shall be held when mutually agreed upon.
ARTICLE XI SENIORITY
11:01 During the first one hunc calendar days of employment, an e sidered to be on probation. Howe\ absent during this period, then th shall be extended by the num
red and twenty (120) mployee shall be con-er, if the employee is probationary period r of calendar days
17
required to maxe up me uiiiacu amfts. He shall acquire seniority after completing the probationary period, provided such period does not exceed five (5) consecutive months. His seniority date snail be backdated to his most recent hiring date.
11:02 A probationary empl >; tent employment to the extert (120) calendar days within a tive months shall be consf probationary period and shall ty date shall be backdated to
>yee who completes intermit-of one hundred and twenty period of seven (7) consecu-red to have completed his Require seniority. His seniori-his most recent hiring date.
ds
11:03 The dismissal of a be at the sole discretion of deemed to be for just the Union Committee of the tionary employee and the rea
piuuationary employee shall the Company and shall be The Company shall inform (Sending dismissal of a proba-(on(s) for such dismissal
11:04 The seniority of an Employee shall cease and his employment shall terminate |lor any of the following reasons:
(i)	When an employee voluntarily terminates his employment in writipg with the Company.
(ii) When an employer verbally to his forer i decision at least two of his next regularly
terminates his employment an and does not reverse his (2 ) hours prior to the start scheduled shift.
(ili) When an employee is discharged and not reinstated, such discharge shall take place in the presence of a LoceI Union Committee Member, or a Steward if a Committee Member is not available.
(iv) When an employee is laid off and does not acknowledge the Company's recall notice as specified In Article V'/ ,ho Agreement.
■i rt
When an employee is absent from work for three (3) or more consecutive working days without notifying the Comlianv with a satisfactory explanation.
When an employee is laicdl off for eighteen (18) consecutive calendar minths without being recalled to work within this period.
When an employee is 1 retired under the Company Pension Plan.
(a)	Seniority shall be allotted to errlbloyees on a departmental basis as follows:
(i)	FormingDepartment-to intlude classifications,
Furnace Operator
Binder Mixer
Batch House Operator
Utility Operator-Forming
Bushing Heat Control Man
BushingOperator
Yarn Checker-Forming
Winder-Forming
Wet ChopOperatorAVinden
ServiceAttendant-Forming
Reconditioner-Forming
End Finder
Utility Cleaner-Forming*
Production Operator.
(ii)	FabricationA Department to include classifications,
PackerTextiles
Twist and Ply Operator
MachineCleaner*
Production Operator'
Bobbin Reconditioner.
PlantSweeper/Cleaner*
(v)
(vi)
(vii) 11:05
19
(iii)	Fabrication B Department - to include classifications,
Reinforcing Mat Machine Operator
Roll-Up Operator-Ftelnforcing Mat
Service Attendant- fabrication
Winder-FabricatiorB
Creel Operator-Rehforcing Mat
Inspector-Reinfornhn Mat
Slitter
Milled Fiber Operd °r Fabrication's' Utilfy Cleaner Fabrication's1 Utifil/ Operator
(iv)	Maintenance Department - to include classifications,
Maintenance Elect|cian Maintenance Mechanic Carpenter-Painteir j Tool Crib Attendant Maintenance Utility Material Handler-Batch House Janitor*
General Labour'
(v)	Materials Distribution Department - to include classification,
Storeskeeper
The Job Classifications indicated by an asterisk (*) are considered as not requiring training.
11:05 (b)
An employee selected bb the Company to participate in a Maintenance Mechrnic or Electrician Apprenticeship program will acqulie and commence classification seniority within the Maintenance Department as per the apprentice program agreement agreed to between the Company and the Union signed April 15, 1996.
pn
A Maintenance Department employee by a reduction in the work fo seniority (as defined in 11:01
with Article XIII of the Agreement.
who is affected ce may exercise his ibove) in accordance
11:06
(a) The Company will endeavortofedvise the local Union at least 3 months in advance of any major technological change.
(b)	The allocation of new clas5 Departments or to new Depa' on operational relationships, siders the operational relationSji matter may be the subject of • mitted at the final step of the (3
^’cations to existing ifnents shall be based the Local Union conibs inappropriate, this grievance to be sub-ifvance Procedure.
11:07 Copies of Seniority Listsjfehall be revised and posted in a suitable place every th[Pe (3) months. Copies of all Seniority Lists shall be provided to Union Committee members and the International UnidT* office.
11:08 Temporary changes or adjustments of the seniority provisions of the Agreement m ly be required during shutdowns occasioned by other ma 3r repairs (not referred to In 11:09), In these instances a ly proposed changes shall be discussed between the CdmDany and the Union and be subject to their agreement.
11:09 The parties agree that ddrlng shutdowns occasioned by furnace rebuilds/repairslmodifications, the following temporary changes to senlnllitv provisions are necessary and desirable:
(a)	Employees on the Seniority!Lists affected by the shutdown will be entitled to exercise their rights under 13:01 (a), (b), (c), and(d).
(b) Having completed 11:09(a), tf for temporary layoff will be pair/ modification crew, as rei and shall retain seniority on lists during the period of rebi
3 employees identified :ilized as a rebuild/re-cfljired by the Company, Individual seniority i|)ild/repalr/modification.
21
Employees retained milst be able to perform the woi required.
(c)	Employees utilized in Tl:09(b) shall retain the bas; hourly rate of pay of tleir regular job classificatio during the period of rebJJild/repair/modiflcation.
(d) (i)
(ii)
Employees utilized in 11:09(b) shall work durin the required per od on an appropriate shi schedule and be paid any shift premiums an weekend continuous shift premiums which ma be applicable.
Employees Identl required for a reb those whose ret)4! has been com rary layoff until work has been fd resumed. The terrtl dance with 11 -.09(8
nple(( 0,
... in 11:09(b) who are nc d|0/repair/modification crew, c ' lld/repalr/modification wor ‘ shall be placed on tempc 3 rebuild/repair/modificatioi ' completed and products brary layoffs will be in accoi time limits.
(e)	The period of temporary layoff should not normall1 exceed twenty one (21)[ calendar days, the followini excepted:
(i)	Thirty five (35) calendar ays for a twenty (2Q) bushing furnace abnorma. rebuild/modification.
(ii)	Forty two (42) Galejndar da s for greater than a twenty (20) bushingfurnace normal rebuild.
(iii)	Forty nine (49) taianuar days for greater than r twenty (20) busihing furnace abnorma rebuild/repair/modif pation.
(f)	(I) Employees who exercise their rights unde
13:01 (a), (b), (cj, and (d) (as outlined ir 11:09(a) above) shall return to their previous classification anCi shift (providing a laboui adjustment associated with a product mi> change was not announced prior to the shut, down) at the end of the shutdown in a mannei that provides for maximum efficiency.
23
(ii)	During the period of temporary layoff, the employees affectedshall etain seniority on their individual seniority list at 6 be recalled to their former job classifications and shift (providing a labour adjustment associ; ted with a product mix change was not announ :ed prior to the shutdown) in a mannerthat p ovides maximum efficiency for return to norrrrl production. All benefits for which an employ ie is eligible shall be maintained during the period of temporary layoff except Weekly Indemnity.
(g)	Upon request, certain employees may be allowed to take all or a portion of their annual vacation entitlement (in units of one (1) weelc periods only) during the period of the rebuild/renair/modification. The Company reserves the right t| refuse or restrict this privilege to any employee o| group of employees whose absence could, in the Company's opinion, impairgeneral efficiency.
11:10
(a) The names of student employes, hired on a temporary basis, shall be placed d| a separate Seniority Listto be attached to the Plarfl Seniority Lists.
(b)	In the event of a reduction |«n the work force as described in Article XIII of tire Agreement, student employees whose names appear on the separate student Seniority List will be terminated before any other employee is displaced.
(c)	On completion of their assign' terminated. However, a st request that he be retained employment is granted by the will be back-dated to his mos: his name will be placed on tl Department in which he is ret: he will become eligible to p enumerated in Articles Agreement.
ents, students will be
[dent employee may n employment, and if Company his seniority recent hiring date and e Seniority List for the ined. At the same time irtlcipate in the Plans IX and XXXI of this
23
(d)	The experience acquir id while employed as a stu dent shall not be consdered in assessing eligibility for transfers, promotions, job postings and/or reduc tion in the work force.
It is the Company's I employ students from April the two week period which New Years Day.
ARTICLE XII
TRANSFERS AN|b PROMOTIONS
Where there is a simultaneous requirement to implemen' Article Xll-Transfers and Piomotions, and Article XIII Reduction in Work Force, all iabour moves required undei Article XII will be planned before Article XIII is put intc effect.
en red employees acquired pi1 he Company shall not be eir eligibility for Transfers,
12:00 The experience or while in the previous employ considered In assessing th Promotions, or Job Postings.
12:01 A Job Opportunity lljlst (JOL) will be maintalnec by the Human Resources Department.
(a)	An employee with seni classifications within his wishes to transfer and/|?i own classification sho Company's operation v\ the request for shift tran;
ority may record in writing, own department to which he r a shift transfer within his ild a vacancy occur. If the ould be adversely affected, fer may be denied.
(b) An employee with a l^i record in writing, clas department to which he
ast 2 years seniority may i ifications outside his owr fishes to transfer provided:
(i)	there is not a m rt senior non-restricted employee on layoff& the time.
00
he has not exerci: department within 1 not apply if an emp placed from a Senitn tion of Article XIII “
ad a JOL move to another e last six months. This doe: loyee was subsequently dis irity List through the applica Reduction in Work Force.
Employees are encourages to record only those classifications to which tttlev would transfer if a vacancy occurred.
It is the individuals' responsibility to place his name on the JOL, ana such name will be retained on the list for twelve (12) months.
Only those names on the llOL will be considered for transfer.
When an employee is ccpiaciea euner by telephone or in person regarding such a transfer, he will be given up to 12 t|ours to advise re his decision to transfer.
12:02 In dealing with promotiorjs, upgradings, or the transfer of employees within a Department, the following procedures shall apply:
(a) Employees having their nam< transfer within his classificatio i
to fill the opening in order o application of subsections (b),
s on the JOL for shift shall be selected first seniority prior to the 'c) and/or (d).
(b) For all classifications except Furnace Operator, Binder Mixer, and Batch Housl Operator.
(i) Employees on the JOLlwithin the department with sufficient experience^ will be selected first tc fill the vacancy in order of seniority, then
(ii)
Employees outside the cient experience and department who have re able to the vacancy an' sary qualifications, abili: perform the work requiri the vacancy in order of s|
department with suffi-tmployees within the ated experience applic-i who have the neces-and physical fitness tc I, will be selected to fit niority, then
(iii)
All other employees in o ed they have the neces and physical fitness required will be selected
der of seniority, provid-ry qualifications, ability to perform the work :o fill the vacancy, then
25
(iv)	Other means inclucj|ng hiring
(c)	For transfers to FurnacA Operator, Binder Mixer, or Batch House Operator, tile following procedures shall apply:
(i)	Employees on the JOL within the department with sufficient expel ience who have not refused a relief assignment {to these classifications with-inthe previous twelve (12) months shall be selected first to fill the ODenings in order of seniority.
d!
An employee who assignment as exempted from the on the date he acl Company his accepjt, quent assignment vacation year will n> similar assignment
previously refused a relief scribed above, shall be above restriction, effective knowledges in writing to the ance of an offer of a subseA refusal for the 'current >t restrict the employee for a i subsequent vacation year.
No restriction shall Ibe imposed if an employee refused a relief assignment to accept another relief assignment.
(ii>
(iii)
If a sufficient numbAi able for the openir application of subs ees on the JOL witi ii cient experience s openings in order of
I
ir of employees is not avail-gs to be filled through the ction (i), then other employ-in the department with suffi-hall be selected to fill the seniority.
Notwithstanding 12:01 re only con employees outside cient experience openings in order criteria as in 12:02 (ft)
e previous references in ^tiering names on the JOL, ~ the Department with suffi-!ay be solicited to fill the r jf seniority using the same '	(i) and (ii).
(iv) If a sufficient numbii able for the openir application of subsections
r of employees is not avail-(js to be filled through the (i), (ii) and (iii), then
2I
other employees on the ed experience applicable
be selected on a senioi have the necessary qu physical fitness to perform
JOL with direct or relat-to the openings , shall
ty basis provided they ilifications, ability and the work required.
(d)	(i) When possible, the JOl will be used to offer vacation relief assignments within a department after employees with sufficient experience on the shift requiring the Relief have been canvassed.
(ii)	Only employees within tl|e department requiring the vacation relief will t|e considered for relief assignments, the classifications of Furnace Operator, Binder Mix Operator excepted (I
department for empl|yees with sufficient experience).
(iii)	If the JOL Is used, and ine senior employee on the JOL who requests tile relief assignments is on another shift, he may transfer shifts, only if an employee on the shifn requiring the relief and in the same classification as the potential relief employee, volunteers to |ransfer shifts.
(iv)	No restriction shall be imposed if an employee refused to accept an assignment that required a shift transfer.
(e)	An employee will normally only be allowed to perform vacation relief assignments for one classification.
12:03 Openings which cannoiiDe filled through the application of sections 12:01 and jl 2:02 may be filled by other means, including hiring.
12:04
(a)	An employee who confirms ms intent to transfer under the JOL and who revs rses his decision shall not be considered for transfe • under the JOL for six (6) months except for the folloLinn situations:
27
(i)
He reverses his de department prior to a move within hisddi
(ii) He reverses his dec new position, or the acceptable medical
;ision to transfer out of his moving in order to exercise Dartment,
sion prior to moving into the transfer of his seniority for easons.
(iii)	In the judgement the Company he is unable to satisfactorilyperlqrm the job.
(b)
(c)
A continuous shift empip' JOL to a classification ii one shift schedule in eff^ shift schedule provided b
yee who transfers via the which there is more than ct, may select a continuous s seniority so allows.
As a result of any initial ir fer, there can be two (2) tal JOL moves. If the Co adversely affected, a re allow no more than three means of the provisions department during a labolri
ter-departmental JOL trans-iubsequent inter-departmen-npany's operation would be striction may be applied to (3) employees to transfer by if the JOL, from any one (1) r adjustment.
12:05
(a)
An employee transferee from one Seniority List to another, through the apf lication of this Article, shall retain his seniority on hi: i former Seniority List for a period of seventy-two (7:i) worked hours in the new classification. On the exp ry of this period, his seniority shall be credited to the Departmental List to which he is transferred, unless this period is extended by mutual agreement between the parties.
For any JOL transfer in return to his former class transfers, any experience
which an employee opts to s ification before his seniority acquired, shall not be considered for future transfers. Demotions, or a reduction in workforce.
(b)	The above notwithstandir |, an employee transferred to a new nlassifinafinnirl Which he IS trained (exdud-3Viously occupied) through
to a new classification ih ing * jobs he has not pf
28|
the application of this Article', 3hall have his seniority transferred to his new Depart!1 ent List immediately. If the employee requests to rl 'lew the contemplated new job prior to making his Ifecisfon to transfer, he will be given a maximum ofc 1e (1) hour to review it with supervision of the newcll&sification.
12:06 When an employee's sta*! of health is such that he can no longer perform his nor1 'hi duties satisfactorily, and it is recommended in writing his Doctor (and verified by the Company Doctor) that he be transferred from his normal job for health reasons, he following procedure shall apply:
(a)	The restricted employee shrt| be displaced from his position and the resulting valiancy filled through the application of subsections H:02(b) (i), (ii), (iii), and
(v)	and (c) (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv)
(b) (i)
The restricted employee] will be allowed to displace the most junior employee of all those classifications of a comparable shift for which the restricted employee is pr eviously trained, provid-
ed his seniority so altc| medically cleared by his the Company Doctor, required.
s, and he has been Doctor and verified by to perform the work
If 12:06(b)(i) is not applicbl employee will be allowe i junior employee in the in a classification in wh cally cleared by his Dock Company Doctor, to per Training will be provided
ble, then the restricted to displace the most d|ant, seniority allowing, ch he has been medi-or, and verified by the orm the work required.
(c)	The employee displaced i allowed to exercise his rights Article 13. Any further empl application of this subsection exercise their rights under tlfe provisions of Article XIII.
i (b) above shall be under the provisions of jyees affected by the hall also be allowed to
29
(d)	If the restricted employe the application of this sec . on the Inactive Senior1}^ receiving wages from d rehabilitative training ‘ Compensation Board), c him of any future opening
cannot be placed through Ion, then he shall be placed List (provided he is not |er employment or refuses ’ offered by the Workers' 'i the Company shall advise : which he could perform.
(e)	An employee having at least three (3)years' seniority who cannot be assignee to another job through the application of sub-sectior s (a), (b), or (c), and who is ineligible for the Inactive Seniority List, may be placed on l ay-off.
12:07
An employee temporarily assigned to another job (including assignment d re to a temporary disability covered by Workers' Compensation) shall receive the rate of the job to which h) is transferred or the rate of the job from which he ik moved, whichever is the higher.
A temporary assignment onall not exceed forty (40) calendar days (excludin j vacations and recognized holidays) unless extended by mutual agreement between the patties.
(b)	Notwithstanding the prov|! employee, if transferred sons, shall receive the ( to which he is transferred
[felons of subsection (a), an 'or any of the following rea-'rrent rate of pay for the job
(i)	Transferred at his ovVn request
(ii) Transferred in lieuoj lay-off.
(iii)	Transferred on a Debtor's recommendation
12:08 Should an opening oicur on a shift, day schedule employees will be given firs: consideration in order of seniority, provided the efficiency of the operation is not adversely affected.
30
12:09 An employee transferred 11 a position outside of the Bargaining Unit shall accumulat: seniority for a period
of six (6) months. If he is returned by the Company due to a reductior sons, within that period, he shall be classification provided his seniority Union Dues retroactive to the date Unit.
to the Bargaining Unit of work, or other rea-returned to his former so allows and he pays he left the Bargaining
Such an employee shall lose all seniority rights after the
expiration of the six month period.
12:10
(a)	An employee off work due tif sick leave, leave of absence, Workers' Compensr lion, or vacation shall be returned to his former classification upon his return to work provided he «i continue to perform the work required, or he ma r exercise a move to another classification whlc i he had previously requested on the JOL and for which he would have been selected had he been al work, seniority allowing.
The above notwithstanding, hny employee absent from work due to sickness ant for accident for a period in excess of six (6) months, or when It is known to the Company that the employ :e will be absent for a period in excess of six (6) r onths shall have his seniority transferred from his )epartmental Seniority List to the Inactive Seniority list in accordance with the provisionsof 12:06( d).
(b)	Upon the returnto work of an employee whose name is on the Inactive Seniority Lilt, the following procedure shall apply: (i)
(i)	The employee will be e[itit|ed to displace the most junior employee wi tin his former classification provided his sen! >rity so allows and he has been medically clea ed by his Doctor verified by the Company Doc or and where applicable verified by WCB p perform the work required.
31
(ii)
If (i) is not applicable, the employee will be allowed to displaced the mostjunior employee of all other classifioatbns which the employee previously performed, provided his seniority so allows, and he ha 3 been medically cleared by his Doctor, verified !by the Company Doctor, and when applicable verified byWCBto performthe work required.
(iii)
lf(ii) is not applied!'I allowed to displace all those classifies1' he has been med verified by the d applicable verified required. Training'
o, then the employee will be the most junior employee in ,|bns, seniority allowing, which bally cleared by his Doctor, >mpany Doctor, and where byWCB to performthe work ....be provided.
(c) The seniority of the assignment to relieve work due to sick leav relieve employees who transferred, and he sh classification upon com
‘tnployee who accepts an nother employee who is off or leave of absence or to lire on vacation, shall not be II be returned to his former ietion of the assignment.
‘ion are not applicable when to in sub-sections (a), (b), fjd by a lay-off or a reduction * ie period.
(d)	The provisions of this 8 the employees referred1 and (c) above are affect inthe work force during
12:11 Copies of JOLtransfer forms will be deposited in the Union supplied mailbox.
12:12 Copies of temporal^ uansier forms for sickness relief, the duration of which s expected to exceed fifteen (15) calendar days, will becntiosited inthe Union supplied mailbox.
12:13 The following procdJP short-term assignments in and from the Fabrication Del
Lires will be followed infilling ^e Fabrication Departments flirtments to Forming.
1. If a particular classificatli and this need can be regularly scheduled n<
on requires additional labour, accommodated among the novertime employees from
32
any other classification, volunteers must be solicited among the employees who fan perform the work required.
2.	If no volunteers are forthcoming, the most junior trained employee In the applicable classification will be re-assigned to the job.
3.	If the requirement cannot be filled in the above manner, overtime will be solicited in accordance with practice and in compliance with the Collective Agreement.
If the most junior trained another classification, for
shifts in any given month,	re is a more junior
untrained employee on the j hift, the Company will provide training to the most ji nior untrained employee, or a more senior volunteei on the shift, to accommodate the requirement. If thp requirement is in the Forming Department, the training will be us an End Finder or Winder Operator ■______________________________
5.	Overtime will not be planned for any classification with the pre-conceived intentlof transferring employ-ee(s) to temporary assignments elsewhere.
6.	If the requirement cannot be accommodated through the utilization of 1,2, or 3, above, trained employees outside the classification will tfs solicited.
7.	The Company assures the union of its intent to extend every effort to ensure compliance with this procedure.
12:15 A Millwright Opportunity llist (MOL) will be maintained by Maintenance Supervisio i, to allow Maintenance Mechanics to record In writing, sf ecific job assignments, within the Maintenance Mechanic; Classification to which he seriously wishes to transfer s tould a vacancy occur and for which he has the requirei tents listed below. It is the individual employee’s respons cility to place his name on the MOL. Only those names on the MOL will be considered for transfer.
33
An employee's namewill rem:|nonthe MOLuntil:
•() The employee transfer which point he will be un on the MOL for a period (
to a new assignment, at tble to place his name back f 3 months.
2)	The employee refuse o transfer after he has accepted the assignmen lr which he had previously listed his name. In this i lance, he will be unable to place his name on the BoLfor a period of three months. This restricti I is not applicable, if an employee accepts anoth [assignment prior to being placed in an assignm ■ that he had previously accepted.
3)	The employee is no longer employed by the Company.
In dealing with the trans Mof the employees to specific job assignments, the f llowing criteria will apply :
1) Physical ability; 2) Bt demonstrated skills: 3) Seniority in the Mai Bance Department.
If the vacancy canndt be filled through the MOL, continuous shift vacancies will be filled by the most junior E shift employee, E shift vacancies will be filled by assigning one of the junior employees from the bottom 1/3 of the E shift seniority list, the selection of that employee will take into consideration, the possible effects of shift relief assignments and the vacancy job requirements.
Maintenance Superj/ii for maintaining a c assignment position;: available for script Mechanics.
sion shall be responsible implete list of current job A copy of the list shall be iny of all Maintenance
Job assignments fj>r Binder area, Batch Towers/Sumps, Api Rovlng/Milled Fibre
the MOL may include: ouse, Furnace Hall/Cooling fflicators, Forming Floater, Services. Machine Shop,
34
Fabrication Floater, Mat Shifts A-B-C-D, Forming Shifts A-B-C-D, Fabrication Shifts S-T, Alloy, Mobile Equipment, Da|f/Ovens, 30/ZTY,
Alloy/Floater.
ARTICLE XIII
REDUCTION IN WORK FORCE
13:01 When circumstances requirfe a reduction in the lumber of employees within a classification, the following irocedure shall apply:
a) (I) An employee with the moji seniority of those affected by the reduction In the classification shall displace the most Junior employee in another classification within the same Seniority List, provided his seniority ao allows and he can continue to perform the wor#; required.
(ii)	If the reduction results li i the classification changing from Continue js Shift to a nonContinuous Shift, then ser or employees being retained in the classification may, in order of seniority, be allowed to exercise any “bump” that the junior employee(s) cqjld have exercised under 13:01 (a) (I) or 13:0 1 (d), provided the senior employee is capablelof continuing to perform the work required.
(Hi) Employees who are consKJered to be trained End Finders will be allowi d to displace more junior End Finders in a reduction of the work force regardless of whetjier or not they are trained Winders.
It is acknowledged by thelparties that Winder relief must also be acco nmodated by End Finders, and as is the prai tice with Production Operators, an End Finder vho cannot function satisfactorily as a relief Wir der after the normal period of training, will be removed from the End Finder classification.
35
The preceeding paragraph also applies to Article 12 - Transfers and Promotions
(b) An employee so displaced shall in turn displace the
mostjunior employee the same Seniority L
h another classification within £t, provided his seniority so allows and he can continue to perform the work required.
(c)	Notwithstanding (a) placed from a day job sions of this Article, sh
1 (b) above, an employee dis-("E shift) through the provi-I have the following options:
To displace the mo|t junior employee on any Seniority List on a dav job ("E"shift) not requiring training (*) provided hisf seniority so allows.
OR
To displace the mostji|ii cation on any Seniority sifications excepted) and he can continue to
nior employee in any classlfl-Mst (Maintenance skilled clas-provided his seniority so allows perform the work required.
(d)	An employee dispiR'-cu from a Departmental Seniority List, having previously exhausted all possible options within his i> Vh Seniority List as detailed in
(a)	and (b) of this sectk n, shall be entitled to displace the mostjunior employ in any classification on any Seniority List (Maintenance skilled classifications excepted), provided h s seniority so allows and he can continue to perform the work required. If more than one shift schedul S Is in effect In the classification, said employee may select his schedule provided his seniority so allows
(e> 0)
An employee dis Seniority List, possible options e (d) of this sectior the most junior ertii
jiaced from a Departmental ing previously exhausted all s detailed in (a), (b), (c), and shall be entitled to displace ployee In any of the Seniority
SR
Lists (Maintenance skilled Classifications except, ed) provided his seniority Co allows and he has the physicalfitness to perform the work required and shall be trained to perform such work.
(e) (ii)
An employee displaced f Seniority List, having prev possible options as details and (e)(i), who cannot perfi due to physical restrictions
Doctor, verified by the C impany Doctor and
where applicable verified
allowed to displace the mo ;t junior employee ol
all those classifications or provided his seniority so all: form the work requirec his Doctor, verified by the Company Doctor and where applicable verified Bv the WCB. Training will be provided.
om a Departmental iously exhausted all In (a), (b), (c), (d), rm the work required as confirmed by his
by the WCB will be
a comparable shift, dws, and he can per-medically cleared by
If placement on a comparab able, then the restricte I allowed to displace the m the plant, seniority allowlni which he can perform the ically cleared by his Do Company Doctor and by the WCB. Training will
b|p
le shift is not applic-employee will be junior employee in In a classification In required as med-tor, verified by the e applicable verified provided.
c st
v ork
(e) (iii)
If the restricted employefe through the application of shall be placed on the Ir (provided he is not receiv employment or refuses re offered by the Workers' and the Company shall openings which he could p
cannot be placed this section, then he active Seniority List ig wages from other abilitative training as Compensation Board) ise him of any future rform.
I ad n
(e) (iv) An employee who cannot J>e assigned to another job through the application of 13.01(e) and who is Ineligible for the Inactive Seniority List, may be placed on layoff.
37
(f) An employee entering the provisions of this transferred as of the c
another Department through Article, shall have his seniority ite of the transfer.
(g) An employee displace" the application of thl£! another Department1 Xll-Transfers and Prc non-restricted employ^
from his Department through Article, shall not transfer to Rder the provisions of Article Riotions while a more senloi is on lay-off.
13:02 lithe event a reduction of work resultsin a layoff, probationary employees shall be the first to be laid off.
13:03 Employees laid of* be provided with a torn’ Department on which they " reasonably perform. Empl^j jobs they can reasonably ’ the Human Resources Dr circumstances be allowed t1
^hall for the purpose of recall, toy the Human Resources Tall indicate the jobs they can c(^ees who have indicated the I? f^orm, on a form provided by 'jrhrtment, shall under certain filace themselves on lay-off.
13:04 In the event of lab those listed in Article XIX of (a), (b), (c), and(d), the Coil (7)calendar days notice to
'-oft for reasons other than the Agreement section 19:01 pany shall give at least seven e employees affected.
13:05 Whenever two (2)||ob classifications are combined into a single new dd! Sification, any employee who has been classified in eithe" job during the previous five (5) years shall be allows I to displace a more junioi employee in the new classification if he is affected by a reduction in the work force.
13:06 On occasions th£! scheduled maintenance of electrical equipment necessitates a power outage, employees affected shall laid off for a period not in excess of one-half of their r® 3ular shift and shall not be eligible to displace other emp’lfyees under the provisions ol this Article.
thl
13:07 In the event of a toi agrees to pay a severance (except those on the Inactive
plant closure, the Company payment for all employees Seniority List) at the rate ot
48
one (1) weeks regular pay per year mum of twenty-six (26) weeks of
more than twenty-six (26) years of si additional one-half (1/2) weeks pay vice beyond twenty-six (26) (partial y included in the calculation of total
if service to a maxi-I ay. Employees with
qrvice shall receive an
or each year of ser-iars of service will be severance pay).
ARTICLE XIV DISCONTINUED JOBS
14:01 When a department or operation ceases to function permanently and jobs are discon inued, any employee affected, if his seniority so allows, shr II be entitled to bump to another job provided he has had previous experience on the job and is physically able tb continue the work required.
14:02	In the event an employee Cjnnot be placed on a
job under the terms of section 14:0t, the employee shall be entitled to displace the most juniO’ employee in any of the Seniority Lists (Maintenance skilled classifications excepted) and shall be trained ft perform the work required.
14:03 The question of which Seni By List the employee shall be entitled to displace In, s I be subject to discussion betweenthe Company and t I Union Committee, giving the employee preference if Bacticable. Falling mutual agreement in such Instan A, the most junior employee of all Seniority Lists (Maint Bance skilled classifications excepted) shall be displaced I
ARTICLE XV RECALL
When recalling seniority employees fiom lay-off, they shall be recalled on the basis of plant-wide seniority subject to the following rules:
An employee due indicated the jobs he can
39
notified when suitable operiii his seniority shall be offeree rate of wages for the positio t refuses an offer of employrr|i previously indicated he c automatically terminate his
ngs occur, and according to employment at the prevailing available . An employee who ent in any of the jobs he had iuld reasonably perform will employment.
15:02 When it is not poss telephone or by messenge|! by registered mail to the employee with the Human R
(ale to contact an employee by I! notice of recall shall be sent list address recorded by the ^sources Department.
15:03 Employees notifiodljto return to work shall report onthe date and time specified in the notice.
15:04 An employee, when recall from lay-off shall at)' Department of his intention (3) calendar days of receipt the Seniority List shall be m dar days (exclusive of recoi from the mailing date of employee not return to work calendar day period, his n, Seniority List unless he has nation satisfactory to the C impossible for him to complv
notified by registered mail of Ivise the Human Resources to return to .work within three }f such notice. His position on aintained for seven (7) calen-gnized holidays and vacations) recall notice. Should the at the expiry of the seven (7) e shall be deleted from the Ifurnished in writing an expla-bmpany outlining why it was
t te
ia n
15:05 When required, junior employee may be recalled before a senior errployee for training purposes. The period of training will no l exceed six (6) shifts worked. The Union Committee shall pe notified in advance of such recalls.
15:06 Nothwlthstanding employee recalled from lay- )■ will not be eligible to enter hi$
the terms of Article XII, an iff to a temporary assignment name on the JOL.
40
ARTICLE XVlI JOB POSTING
16:01
(a)	Notice of vacancies shall be posted on deslgnatec Bulletin Boards for the following] occupations:
Day Schedule Occupations! New Occupations Skilled Maintenance Occupations including Apprem tices. All Shipping and Stores Occupations.
(i)	Notice of such vacancieslshall be posted from 12:00 noon to 12:00 noonffor seven (7) calendar days.
(ii)	Additionally, a Job Postihg List (JPL) will be maintained by the Human Resources Depart, ment to allow employes} to record in writing those occupations to which they wish to transfei should a vacancy occur.
It is the individual's responsibility to place his name on the JPL and such names will be retained on this list for twJs,Q (12) months.
(b)	Temporary requirements foi pioKness or vacation relief in " £ shift classification^ not requiring training shall not be posted.
Temporary Job Postings for th£ purpose of sickness or vacation relief in all other shift classifications shall be restricted to:
(i)
(ii)
Shift employees in the qppartment where the requirement occurs.
If the vacancy is not filler by the application ol
(i) above, applications w
shif t employees in other lepartments, and from
"E" shift employees in cle Ing training
be considered from
sifications not requir-
16:02 Notwithstanding the pro|lsions of Article XII applicants shall be selected to fill Juch vacancies undei the following step system:
41
(1) Employees with sufficient experience shall be select, od first to f,ll the openinbs in order of seniority.
(2)
If a sufficient number for the openings to be of step (1), employees ty basis for training, p sary qualifications, abili form the work required
'll employees is not available filled through the application ihall be selected on a seniori-
fflded they have the neces-and physical fitness to per
(3) In the event no sultabl# applications are available, the vacancy shall be filipd by other means.
16:03
(a)	An employee selected for a Job posted vacancy under the terms of this Article shall retain his seniority on his former Seniority List for a period of twelve (12) calendar days excluding absences, vacations, or recognized holidays.
(b)	The above notwithstanding a job posted vacancy trained (excluding * job pied) under the terms seniority on his former three (3) working day; tions, or recognized hoi
, an employee selected for for which he is considered he has not previously occu-cf this Article shall retain his Seniority List for a period ot excluding absences, vaca-lldays.
16:04
(a)	When an employee li selected for a job posted vacancy, he shall be ineligible to apply for another posted vacancy for a period of six (6) months from the date of acceptance
(b)	An employee who acdepts a job posted vacancy under this Article and w ho reverses his decision within the time limits specified in 16:03 (a) and (b) will be restricted from applying i for further posted vacancies for a period of three (3)]months except for the following situations:
(i) He reverses his decision prior to moving into the new position in ordpr to exercise a JOL move.
4|2
(ii) He reverses his dedsorn prior to the transfer ot his seniority for acceptably medical reasons.
(Hi) In the Judgementof the qompany he is unable
to satisfactorily perform th$ job.
16:05 Notwithstanding the provisions of section 16:04, an employee placed on a job as a r isult of a posting who is subsequently moved from this job i of the provisions of Article XIII, sh return to that job if it again becomes of forty (40) calendar days (excludi ig vacations and recognized holidays) from the date he was moved off that job. Should the employee exercise thi| option, the vacancy shall not be posted.
due to the application ill have the option to vacant within a period
16:06 An employee restricted bylthe above mentioned six (6) month period shall be considered released from this obligation should any of the following circumstances occur during the six (6) month period.
(a)	The eliminationof the operatiorj or job.
(b)	The operation or job changes ffom a day schedule to a shift schedule.
(c)	The employee is moved Off thf jOD due to the application of the provisionsof Articp III.
16:07 The Company shall not be obligated to post notice of any job the duration of which is less than seven (7) working days, unless extendedlbv mutual agreement between the parties.
16.08 The following procedure w|l be adopted in determining shift allocations for ail figure openings in the Maintenance Classification,
1.	When an opening occurs it willlbe posted in the Plant and applications will be accepted in accordance with Article XVI of the Agreement.
2.	Ifthere is no successful applicant the ODenlna will be filled by other means.
43
3A.
3B.
4.
6.
7.
8.
.The new Maintenance h/lechanic will be familiarized with the continuous s^ift routines and will be prepared to go on shifts ‘S soon as the familiarization period is completed bun not later than five (5) months after date of hire.
The new Electrician wilt be familiarized with the continuous shift routines arid will be prepared to go on shifts as soon as the familiarization period is completed but not later than twelve (12) months after date ot hire.
3C. The new Apprentice . other shifts as approprl be familiarized with tfr will be prepared to go completion of his final j
These procedures will cumstances, for exam' ness. An exceptional cf with the Union and upq iarization period may b\
When the Maintenance person is prepared for continuous shifts, a notice wil be posted from 12:00 noon to 12:00 noon for sevfn (7) calendar days in the Maintenance Department to allow present employees in the appropriate class fication to bid for the opening on day shift.
I be trained on day shift (or lte) during which time he will continuous shift routine. He Dn shifts after the successful !ar of apprenticeship.
iply in all but exceptional cir-s vacation purposes or slck-cumstance will be discussed mutual agreement the famil-extended.
The most senior applicant incumbents) for the op< days and the new (mob will be placed on the s week following the sele senior employee on the
(of the Continuous Shift ^ning on day shift will go on t junior qualified) employee lift vacated no later than the :tion, unless there is a more MOL.
The Union will be notified of the successful applicant of this posting.
Should an opening occur on a shift, the duration of which is known to be fpr more than six (8) months,
day schedule employees will b| given first consideration in order of seniority as per he MOL, provided the efficiency of the operation is no| adversely affected.
ARTICLE XVI
WAGES, HOURS OF WORK, LUNCH AND REST PERIODS
17:01 Classification and wage ra "A” of the Agreement, shall remain I of this Agreement, subject to the 17:02.
is shown in Appendix effect for the duration irovisions of section
17:02 The Company shall inf establishment of new or changed and the subsequent revisions to the does not consider the rate proper lodged at Step 2 of the Grievar Agreement. If this matter is appeal jurisdiction shall be confinec applying another rate which based on the existing rate s1 classifications shown in the Append!.
o}vn the Union of the lassifications of work Appendix. If the Union a grievance may be ce procedure in the d to an arbitrator, his confirming the rate, or e an equitable rate e for the various job
17:03 For calculation purposes, jtne working day shall commence at 7:00 a.m. The worsino week shall commence Sunday at 7:00 a.m.
17:04 The following are the regular hours of work and work schedules:
. . Day Schedule - 'E'Shift [a) y
Forty (40) hours per week.
Monday- Friday 7:30 a,m. - 3:30 p,m.
Before an employee's hourslof work are changed from E shift to M shift, the Company will provide the Unionwith a letter indicating:
(a)	the employee(s) affectedjvill maintain contractual rights associated with B Shift.
45
(b)	that should vacancfes occur in the affected classifications, these Will be posted in accordance with the E shift provisions of Article XVI,
(b)	One Shift Schedule-‘Ml Shift:
7:00 a.m, - 3:00 p.m.
Monday- Friday
(c)	Two (2) Shift SwingSch|5dule - ‘F* and 'G' Shifts: Monday- Friday 7:00 a,(n, - 3:00 p.m.
Monday- Friday3:00 d.Iti. -11:00 p.m.
Shifts will rotate eacn wqex.
(d)	Three (3)Shift Swing Schedule - 'J', 'K', 'L' Shifts: Monday- Friday 7:00 a.PV - 3:00 p.m.
Monday- Friday 3:00 p. n. -11:00 p.m.
Sunday -Thursday 11:tf) p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
(Except during a start-uf period, when the work week on 'L' Shift may end at i Qo a.m, Saturday.)
The weekly shift rotatitf1 shall be from days (7-3)to nights (11 -7)to afternodl'b (3-11).
(e)	Continuous Shift Sched1 lfs - 'A', ‘B’, ‘C1, 'D' Shifts:
There shall be two (2)c^a>ly shifts of twelve (12) hours each in every twenty-foL r (24) hour period as follows:
7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. 70° p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
Continuous shift employees shall work three (3) consecutive day shifts folld'^ed by three (3)days of rest and three (3) consecdllVe night shifts followed by three (3) days of rest.
(f)	i) Continuous Shift tbay Schedule - Reinforcing
Mat 'S’ and T Shifts
7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.rfi.
4|3
Three (3) consecutiveldav shifts, followed by three (3) days of rest.
Iil)	Continuous Shift Night! Schedule - Fabrication
'E' Utility Cleaner 'Q' anH 'R' Shifts
7:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
Three (3) consecutive bight shifts, followed by three (3) nights of rest.
iii) Continuous Shift Dayslhedule 'S’ andT Shifts for areas other than reinforcing Mat upon mutual agreement betwffen the parties.
7:00 a.m. • 7:00 p.m.
Three (3) consecutive |day shifts, followed by three (3)days of rest.
(g)	Continuous Shift Day Schedule of 12 Hours U & V Shift - Material Dijtribution 7:00 a.m. • 7:00 p.m.
17:05 When an employee is transferred from one continuous shift to another continuous shift, the employee may request to work only the number of hours required by the new shift schedule in the pay week of his transfer.
17:06 Normal lunch and rest periods shall be as follows:
(a)
(b)
(c)
A thirty (30) minute lunchperifod at regular pay.
Two (2) fifteen (15) minute I'est Deriods at regular pay.
47
(d) The normal lunch perid|* the day schedule shall p.m., except in the Map Departments where f' according to operating the employees shall bf close to the normal "
for employees assigned to e from i2:00 noon to 12;20 snance and Reinforcing Mat e lunch period may vary 'equipments in which case allowed a lunch period as as practicable.
I periRtt
17:07 The Company reserves the right to modify or amend the above mentioned lunch periods to meet any of its production and/or maid enance requirements and agrees that it shall not exerrise this right in an arbitrary manner.
17:08 When an employed Is required to work overtime for a period of three (3) hour3 br more, he shall be allowed a fifteen (15) minute rest pefidd within the first hour of the overtime period, provided such overtime assignment necessitates that the employee remain continuously at work.
17:09 Two employees wS'King on a continuous twelve (12) hour shift schedule or ffPse working the non continuous shifts of JKL, In the sa11"! classification, may request to enter into a formal agreeffl3nt to work straight days and nights or to work the appliSPble day, afternoon or night shift.
The agreement approvea Dy me Human Resources Department and signed by dl parties will identify the time period and, for the purpose of vacations, reductions and temporary moves, theX will revert to their original schedule.
articiLe XVIII OVERTIME
18:01 Overtime shall be baid at the rate of one and one-half times the basic clas sification rate for the work an employee Is required to perorm in excess of his normal number of hours per day, or in excess of his normal number of hours per week.
4ja
onouia an employee iransier rromia non-continuous shift schedule to a continuous shift schedule he shall be paid
overtime for hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in
the week of transfer.
O 3
18:02 An opportunity is defined in an employee's regular shift fewer hours than an employee's re mulated until regular shift hours ' which time an opportunity will be ch
the number of hours 3rtime assignments of lUlar shift will be accu-been reached, at itged.
18:03 As far as practicable, opportunities for overtime will be distributed evenly within t\f, same classification. Distri bution lists will be posted morTly.
18:04 For non-scheduledemerg Bey overtime, excluding all twelve (12) hour shift sche fles, working employees in the same dassificationshall It be solicited, following which relief may be obtained Im other employees within the Department.
18:05 Should an employee accepi an assignment to work overtime and fail to report for fjis regular duties previous to, or subsequent to this oveltime commitment, he shall forfeit his overtime pay for the period he worked unless he has a reason satisfactoMo the Company.
18:06 Overtime distribution willi-e in accordance with the spirit and provisionsofthe folio ling documents:
(a) Company Bulletin No. 35/6 Distribution"dated July 22,19d
headed "Overtime
(b) Company letter to Union Prapiaent dated July 27, 1982, with attached documents headed "Overtime Distribution", and "GeneralRums and Guidelines".
(c)	Company Bulletin No. 38/8|2 headed "Overtime Distribution", dated July 28, 1982.
(d)	Company memo dated May 6, 111 987 headed “Revised Special Arrangements - Overtime Distribution, Maintenance Mechanics and E|ectricians”.
49

ARTIC REPORTING AND EMERGEH
XIX
fOR WORK CY CALL-IN
19:01 An employee who not to report to work, shall be half the shift for which he rep he shall be paid for one-half ed. This obligation shall not prevented from working been
is not been told in advance given work for at least one-prted. If no work is available he shift for which he report-prevail when the employee is use of any of the following
(a)	A breakdown of machlnefey or equipment.
(b)	A power shortage or failure of power supply.
(c)	Any circumstance beyond the control of the Company..
(d)	An employee's neglect in keeping the Company advised of his current address.
19:02
(a)	An employee requested report for work apart from his regular shift due to 0n emergency shall be paid a minimum of four (4) H8Jrs‘ pay at his basic hourly rate or time and one-h#^ his basic hourly rate for the hours actually worked,'Tichever is the greater.
(b)	The above notwithstanc ing an employee requested to report for work ap irt from his regular shift, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. due to an emergency, shall be paid a minimum of six (6) hours pay at his basic h purly rate, or double time his basic hourly rate for tpe hours actually worked, whichever is the greater.
(c)	Overtime hours as a felfult of emergency situations will not be considered as) an overtime opportunity.
reasons
5p
ARTICLE
SHUT PREMIUMS AND CONTINUOUS SHIFTPREMIUMS
20:01
(a)	A premium of forty (40) cents! per hour shall be paid to a non-continuous shift employee working from 3:00 p.m. to 11 :0O p.m.
(b)	A premium of sixty (60) centSI per hour shall be paid to a non-continuous shift employee working from 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(c)	A premium of sixty (60) cents] Pfer hour shall be paid to a continuous shift employee working from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(d)	The applicable shift premium |shall be paid to a continuous shift employee forlall hours worked on Contract Agreed Holidays, Saturdays and Sundays.
20:02 A continuous shift premium of one-half (1/2) times the basic classification rate shall b i paid for each regular hour worked on regular continuous] shift schedule between 7:00 a.m. Saturday and 7:00 a.m. Monday. When a recognized holiday falls on a Saturday c a Sunday, this premium will be paid in addition to the applicable premium specified inArticleXXVI, Section26;08.
premiums shall not be included i rate for the purpose for holidays not worked.
20:04 Continuous shift employees receiving the continuous shift premium in accordance v\ th section 20:02, shall also be paid the regular shift prem um in accordance with section 20:01, but this premium shall not be compounded with any other premium.
51
ARTICLE XXI
OF ABSENCE
21:01 An employee unabl* the Company before the shift on the first day of abseil of absence if it is for more " who is absent for more th$i Company of his intent to rein to the commencement of his "
to report for work shall notify hnmencement of his regular be, and the estimated length than one shift. An employee h one shift must notify the tn to work one full shift prior Scheduled starting time.
21:02 Such absence shall not be excused unless the employee has a justifiable reason.
ARTIbLt XXII ABSENCES
22:01 In the event an employee is absent or does not report for work on time, thef Foreman may arrange for a replacement if he considers if necessary.
22:02 An employee who [accepts such a replacement assignment shall:
(a)	Have the option of staying over for the balance of the shift, if such becomes npcessary.
(b)	Be expected to remain pn me job until the scheduled employee reports for work, or until another replacement arranged for or called in by the Foreman reports for work.
22:03 An employee who scheduled, shall be allowed work or advise the Company i Should an absent employee one-half hour period allowec to work on the shift concei arrange replacement if he o
does not report to work as >ne-half (1/2) hour to report to when he can report to work. :do neither of these within the he shall lose his entitlement rned and the Foreman may slders It necessary.
$2
22.04 An employee wno agrees o substitute tor anotti er
ar
ar
granted time oft, was eligible. Overt ne assignment hours however, shall not be considered ir any of these calcula
tions.
ARTICLE XXI# LEAVE OF ABSE CE
23:01 General
An employee may request in writing a leave of absenci without pay for legitimate reasons. Ilia leave of absence it granted, seniority shall accumulate. Leave of absenci
n employee who fails iave of absence shal t unless he is able tc
shall not be unreasonably withheld, to return to work at the expiry of a I be considered to have voluntarily qi give a reason satisfactory to the Cor pany for his failure tc return to work. The secretary of the Local Union shal receive a copy of all leaves of absence
23:02 Pregnancy
(a) The Company shall grant sii ^6) months leave o absence, three months c£ whicl may be taken prioi
to the expected date of birth, td upon written request.
a pregnant employee
(b) Upon receipt of a certificate f|i medical practitioner, this leav : extended either before or after total maximum period of one yeir
m a duly qualified of absence will be I e date of birth to a
23:03 Bereavement
Bereavement pay shall be limited fo|he employee's regular number of hours per day at his basic classification rate plus any applicable shift premium arid or continuous shif premium, and shall be restricted to Ihose days on which the employee would normally be sch^uled to work.
53
Bereavement pay will be p hours not worked, which the
d to an employee for any imployee would have been scheduled to work, on the day Of death.
(a) Upon the death of an ^ployee's spouse, child, or step-child, bereavement ><ay will be paid for all hours lost in the five (5) constitutive day period following the date of death.
(b) (i) Upon the death ot 6n employee's parent, stepparent, guardian, brother, sister, parent-in-law, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law , bereavement pay will be paid for all hours lost in the three (3) consecutive day period following the date of death for the purpose of arranging for and/or attending the funerd
(ii)
die
If the employee attend the funeral regularly schedule!| £j3) ^nsecutive day
s not arrange for and/or will be paid for one (1) lost work day within the three period following the date of
(iii)	If one of the three In five) consecutive days has not been taken, aPP bereavement pay not paid for that day, then '(the employee attended the funeral or services Pn a day outside that period, and it was a day Pjte employee would normally have been schedM'ed to work, then bereavement pay will be pPId.
(c)	Upon the death tf an enlbioyee's sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparent, Prandparent-in-law or grandchild, bereavement paV will be paid for the loss of one (1) regularly scheduled shift within the three (3) consecutive day period Allowing the date of death, to attend the funeral.
(d)	Should a member of an) employee’s family die while the employee is on appr ived compassionate leave of absence to visit that fsmily member, bereavement pay will be paid in acco dance with the provisions of this clause.
5P
shall be submitted to the Company Pt least fifteen (15) calendar days priorto the date the leaife is to start.
23:05 InternationalUnionConvepons/Conferences
The Company shall grant a leave <J|f .absence without pay
............ tr attend International
s, not to exceed thirty
to a delegated Local Union Membe Union conventions and conference!
(30) calendar days provided:
(a) The Company receives sufficidjit notice.
es from a department
Company's operations
Irabsence without pay I for the purpose of *1 Union provided:
ijt notice.
-•> from a shift within a
l|>yees from a depart.
tJomoany's operations
55
23.07 Union Business
Upon written request from the Company will pay members normal earnings while they absence to attend approved l business is excluded from this
Local Union Committee, the 5f the Bargaining Unit their are on approved leave of hion business. Joint Council arrangement.
Upon presentation of an invpice, the Local Union shall reimburse the Company.
23:08 Court Appearances
(a)
In the event an employed is unable to work his regular shift or shifts due to t bing called for and reporting for jury duty, or due to serving as a Crown Witness, or subpoenaed as a witress in a dispute in which he is not directly involved, the employee shall be paid the difference between the amount he would have earned for working hi:i regular shift(s), and the amount he receives for p forming such duty.
(b)
In order to qualify for employee shall give forty of such obligation (except sent proper evidence as
23:09 Vacation Purposes
sucn compensation, the -eight (48) hours prior notice in an emergency) and pre-o the duty performed.
(a)
Upon written request an employee who has completed ten years of service r iay be allowed up to a maximum of two weeks leave of absence without pay, on one occasion during the five-year period between the 10th and 15th anniversary of his employment, provided the timing of such leave of absence does not adversely affect the Company's operations. Such leave of absence shall be taken outside the Prime Vacation Period and be continuous extension of his full vacation entitlement.
(b)
Upon written request an ed fifteen years of servt: maximum of four (4) we
employee who has completes may be allowed up to a eks leave of absence without
56
pay, on one occasion during year period, provided the absence does not adversel\ operations. Such leave of a outside the Prime Vacation ous extension of his full vacat
each subsequent five-tfning of such leave of affect the Company's Dsence shall be taken P riod, and be a continu-tn entitlement.
Employees affected by shut-lbown for vacation purposes who request a leave of absence under this section may be allowed to take such leaves of absence as a continuous extf ns;on of the balance of their vacation entitlements o itside the Prime Vacation Period subject to the conditions outlined in this section.
All leaves of absence under tHIis section shall be subject to the provisions governin 3 leaves of absence as provided in this Article, shall b t limited to a maximum ot one employee per Depart nent at any one time and be included in 1he maxim tm number allowed off per Department as specified i section 28:04 of this Agreement.
23:10
(a)	Three (3) additional employ 6s per vacation year (restricted to a maximum of 0 re (1) employee within a Department at any one tine) shall be allowed leaves of absence over ana above the maximum allowed off in sections 28Jb2 and 28:04 of this Agreement.
(b)	Leaves of absence as outllrjfb in 23:10 (a) above may be taken at any time HR are subject to the remaining provisions In subsections 23:09 (a) and (b) above.
23:11 If an employee, who has b absence under section 23:09 or decides not to take that leave, he seniority within the remaining tlm 23:09 (a) and (b) should he re absence under the same section as
jen granted a leave of 23:10, subsequently shall not exercise his 3 limits as defined in pply for a leave of the original request.
57
yee feels that remaining at pld lead to some unaccept-
23:12 If an individual emplcy work in a stressful situation ccp able behaviour, he must explo ie the problem with supervision and if it cannot be resolvrjd, the employee may leave the premises for the balance penalty. If, in the Company'
(described in 23:12) is being : be subject to discipline.
of the shift without pay or 's opinion, this privilege bused, the employee(s) will
ARTICLE XXIV INJURY AND DISABILITY
24:01 An employee injured
bn the job shall be paid for
the balance of his shift at his tbsic classification rate. If as a result of such injury, the em ^loyee is sent home or to a hospital, transpoitation shall bp supplied by the Company if necessary.
24:02 Should an employed! sustain a major disability while in the employ of the Cor jpany, an exception may be made to the seniority provisior ; of this Agreement in favour of such employee by agreement between the Company and the Union.
rj'
24:03 In the event there is ee's Workers’ Compensation upon request the employee w ously submit a Weekly Indemrii a waiver form agreeing to Company upon receipt of his V
ason to believe an employ-dlalm will be unduly delayed, jll be allowed to simultaneity claim, provided he signs immediately reimburse the /CB benefit cheque(s).
This special arrangement will be subject to cancellation if the Company encounters difficulty In collecting from any employee.
ARTICL E SAFETY, HEALTH
XXV
AND SECURITY
25:01 The Company must for the safety and health of hours. In addition, the "
^ake reasonable provision Pfnployees during working Comply must provide the Union
5BI
information it has knowledge of ih respect to existing 01 potential hazards of chemicals. Th ! Union agrees to assisl the Company in maintaining props observation of all safety and health rules.
25:02 The parties agree to the istablishment of a Joint Safety and Health Committee at least one-half of whom shall be members of the bargaining unit to be selected by the Union. This committee shall triplet once per month.
25:03 The parties agree that wdj-ik refusals will be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Current Year of Occupational Health and Safety lot
deems it necessary, at locker, the Company
time of the inspection, an abnormal situation ; right to have present nr not the witness is a
25:04 In the event the Companyli any time to inspect an employee' shall arrange for a witness to be | resent at the time the locker is opened and during the ir spection. Said witness shall be a member of the Bargainir g Unit and preferably a Union Steward who is at work at th« t In the event of an emergency or however, the Company reserves th: any witness regardless of whether member of the Bargaining Unit.
25:05
(a) Safety footwear is mandatory or employees working in the Plant. The Company wil reimburse employees up to a maximum of one hindred twenty dollars ($120) per contract year, toward the purchase of safety footwear.
Notwithstanding the above, thfe Company will reimburse employees in the Mairtenance Department classifications and the folio ving classifications: Bushing Operator, Bushing He: t Control Man, Binder Mixer, Utility Cleaner - Formir g, Winder - Forming, Reinforcing Mat Machine Open tor, Roll-Up OperatorReinforcing Mat, Creel Opera or - Reinforcing Mat, Inspector- Reinforcing Mat up to a maximum of one hundred and sixty dollars ($1t 0) per contract year, toward the purchase of safety ft otwear.
59
In addition, employees h specific classifications, who, as part of their daily regular assignment, relieve the Bushing Operator an# the Winder-Forming, will be reimbursed one hundrjd and forty dollars ($140) per contract year, toward the purchase of safety footwear
(b) Should an employee opt t> purchase safety footwear from other than Cornpank-designated suppliers, he must provide the original receipt of payment to be eligible for reimbursement.
25:05 Safety eye protection i which includes sideshields and brow protection, is mandatory for employees working in certain designated areas of |he plant. The Company will provide the necessary safety 'Hassesto all employees, at no cost, including any employee requiring prescription safety lenses and frames. ‘
ARTICLf XXVI RECOGNIZER HOLIDAYS
26:01
(a) The following days are designated as recognized holidays for which an emple fee shall receive payment in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
New Years Day National Heritage Day1 Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Floater
*ln the event proclamation s not made, the third (3rd) Monday in Februaryshail be designated a holiday.
1^0
(b) The date of the Floater HC agreed upon between the prior to January 31st of each Ifi
Iday shall be mutually Company and the Union
fear.
An employee shall
his basic classification rate,	__
last regular scheduled shift	the holiday and his
first regular scheduled shift followtig the holiday in accordance with the shift schedule, ancjhe has also completed any overtime commitment adjacent to the holiday for which hehas volunteered.
26:03 Notwithstanding the provisions of section 26:02 an employee shall be considered!Seiigible for holiday pay provided:
(a)	He was not late in excess of <fle hour on his first regular shift following the holiddtj and presents a satisfactory reason for his lateness
(b)	He requested and received Atten permission from his Foreman to be absent oXeither his last regular scheduled shift preceding theToliday, or his first regular scheduled shift followil the holiday, or any portion of these times, and leturns to work at the expiry of the period for whicl he had received permission to be absent.
26:04 An employee who acceptsllan assignment to work on a holiday and fails to report, IshaM not be paid for the holiday unless he has a reashn satisfactory to the Company.
26:05
(a) An employee normally scheduled to work on a holiday must complete his regular! scheduled shift to be eligible for holiday pay.
(b) An employee who cannot complete his regular
scheduled shift due to illness
pay on a pro-rated basis. If 1 le employee subse-
quently provides proof that
shall receive holiday
e received medical
attention that day, he shall recejye full holiday pay.
61
26:06 An employee assigned to the continuous shift schedule who is normally on t is days off shall be considered to be in continuous emplc yment and shall be paid for the holiday in accordance vf.ith the provisions of this Article.
26:07 Notwithstanding the an employee who is absent c shift preceding the holiday, ai uled shift following the holidal supported by a medical doctoj' lay-off, shall receive holiday complete shift in the week in in the case of a continuous works one complete shift withiji ceding or succeeding the holid
26:08
(a) An employee required t(ll work on a holiday (except on Christmas Day) shall )e paid at time and one-half his basic classificationral e
I irovisions of section 26:02, his last regular scheduled tor his first regular sched-due to personal sickness 's certificate, or because of day provided he works one which the holiday occurs, or iff employee, provided he five (5) calendar days pre-
fsy-
(b) An employee required Jo work on Christmas Day shall be paid two (2) times his basic classification rate.
(c)
An employee required td work two (2) complete shifts on any holiday (except '■'hristmas Day) shall be paid two and one-half (21/2) fimes his basic classification rate for the second shift
(d)
An employee required to on Christmas Day shall basic classification rate f
work two (2) complete shifts be paid three (3) times his r the second shift.
(e)	An employee required to work after 7:00 pm on Christmas Eve shall be oaid one and one-half times his basic classification rate.
26:09 For a 3-shift operati shall be observed for all C shall be the 24-hour period f immediately prior to the holid, day of the holiday.
n, the 24 hour period which ntract designated holidays llowing 11:00 p.m. the night y, and ending 11:00 p.m. the
6E
In these circumstances, the rate cjf pay for the 11 ;00 p.m to 7:00 a.m. shift on the day of th$ holiday shall be calcu
lated on a straighttime basis.
ARTICLE XXVII VACATION PlflAft
All employees are required to takd a vacation with pay in accordance with the provisions of tfliis Article.
27:01
(a)
An employee is eligible for an annual vacation witf pay provided he has performe 1 work for at least thirty (30) calendar days during the qualifying period of July 1st of the preceding year antj June 30th of the current year.
(b) The service of rehlred employees acquired while Ir their previous employ shallInot be considered ir assessing their eligibility for vacation entitlement.
27:02
(a)	An employee having less thanlone (1) year's service, at the end of the qualifying penod, shall be entitled to one (1) day of vacation with pa/ foi each full month of employment up to a maximumpf ten (10) days.
(b)	An employee having one (1) yj-ar but less than three (3) years' service, at the end Qf the qualifying period, shall be entitled to two (2) w/dfeks vacation annually with pay.
(c)	An employee having three (3) yjears, but less than ter (10) years' service during thelcurrent calendar year, shall be entitled to three (3) wieks vacation annually with pay. This additional week of entitlement must be taken after the employee's third anniversary date.
(d)	An employee having ten (1
eighteen (18) years' Service during the current calendar year, shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation annually with pay. This additional week of entitlement must betaken after the employee's tenth anniversary date.
63
(e)	An employee having eighteen (18) years, but less than twenty-eight (28) ye*Fs' service during the current calendar year, shall entitled to five (5) weeks vacation annually with pif. This additional week of entitlement must be takeri after the employee's eighteenth anniversary date.
(f)	An employee having twenty-eight (28) years, but less than thirty-two (32) years' service during the current calendar year, shall be ent tied to six (6) weeks vacation annually with pay. Thin additional week <£ entitlement must be taken after the employee's twenty-eighth anniversary date.
(g)	An employee having thli jy-iwo
service during the curre it calendar year, shall be entitled to seven (7) weeks vacation annually with pay. This additional wee k of entitlement must be taken after the employees thirty-second anniversary date.
27:03
(a)	For an employee entitled to less than two (2) weeks vacation with pay, vacatlo i pay shall be calculated at the rate of 4% of the employee's gross earnings for the qualifying period.
(b)	For an employee entitle^ to two (2) weeks or more vacation with pay, payme"t for each week of vacation shall be calculated at thE rate of 2% of the employee's gross earnings fortfl* qualifying period Including the vacation pay receiveatluring that period.
27:04 Subject to the provisi >ns of Section 27:01 (a), an employee who through illness or accident loses seven (7) continuous working days or nore of employment, shall have his earnings credited w th the number of hours so lost multiplied by his basic rec ular rate for the purpose of computing vacation pay, provl ied such illness or accident is verified by a certificate frcm a duly certified medical practitioner.
64
27:05
(a) An employee shall be paid nis vacation pay prior tc the commencement of his vrjeation period.
Notwithstanding 27:05 (a), ah employee who has no-
ment prior to Decembei quest be paid any out-
taken his full vacation entitle of each year shall, upon re standing vacation pay by the end of the year, provid ed he advises his Foreman or Supervisor before Decemberl st
An employee leaving thei shall be paid the vacation pay to 1
the preceding July 1st up to and I_________________
employment.
27:07 The Company may elect plant for vacation purposes witl through August 31st in any year, down shall be the 'Prime Vacatior ees so affected and shall constitut i total vacation entitlement. If the sh a recognized holiday, then all nor affected by the shutdown shall ha extended by one (1) day without p,
to close any part of its in the period July 1 s' rha period of this shut-Period' for all employ-all or a portion of theli it down period includes ■continuous employees re their vacation period
27:08 Employees not affected c entitled to take a maximum of tion during the Prime Vacation this may be made In accordanc Unless other arrangements are their entitlement shall be given at sideration given to their preference
Pi ri
section 27:07 shall be 2) weeks of their vaca-iod. (An exception to with section 28:02.) ade, the remainder ol another time with con-and seniority.
27:09 Vacation schedules shall tjjs posted not later than March 1st, and the Company shall Pndeavor to inform the employees affected of any departiflPntal shutdown prior to this date.
27:10 An employee shall not be Permitted to waive any portion of his vacation entitlement, Ibr shall he be allowed to have itaccumulatefromyeartoylpar.
65
f 3
27:11 When an employee lay-off is expected to last weeks, any unpaid vacation shall be paid him at the time c
27:12 Should an employe1 the current calendar year, he. period as provided for in been o n lay-off for less than, must take the vacation to whi
Is laid off and the period of r more than thirteen (13) pay to which he is entitled f lay-off.
be recalled to work during .’hall be entitled to a vacation t>2. An employee who has Ve his vacation entitlement n he is entitled under27;02.
It shall be the prerogative of on lay-off for more than twid choose whether or not to tak entitled. Payment for such upon whether or not he has pay under the terms of 27:11
an employee who has been ■ his vacation entitlement to the vacation to which he is 'f&cation shall be dependent slready received his vacation 3bove.
27:13 An employee recall^ to vacation period must se been previously allocated department, group, or shift to
id from lay-off who is entitled ect a period which has not :o another employee in the which he has been recalled.
articl
VACATION A
-XXVIII
■LOCATIONS
28:01 Vacations shall beianocated within the fifty-two
(52Jweek period commencing with the first Sunday in
April.
28:02
(a) Except as described irl section 28:02 (b). the "Prime Vacation Period” shall i lormally be twelve (12)weeks in duration, subject to i maximum of seventeen (17) percent of the employ ees in any one group being allowed off for vacation purposes. The Prime Vacation Period shall e nd each year on the Saturday immediately precedinc Labour Day. Vacation relief during the Prime Vacation Period shall be retained within shifts and on i shift basis except where a wheel relief system i: in operation, or where it is mutually agreed to extend such systems to other groups.
56
(b) When the complement in th| Maintenance Meehan ical Group and/or the Mainter ance Electrical Group ii eighteen (18) or more, the cr Iculation made to deter mine the maximum number allowed off during the Prime Period will be round! d down to the neares1 whole number. At certain cor tplements, this calculation will result In an insuffiCi rnt number of vacatior weeks for all employees in eit ter or both of the abovf groups to choose two weeks ip the Prime Period.
28:03 The following groups shaA be considered to be individual and separate units for fJe purpose of vacatior allocations in the Prime Period onlU
1.	FORMING GROUP:
All Forming classificaticmffiexcfept Utility Cleaner Group Leader and Day Schedule Utility Cleaner.
2.	COMBINED GROUP:
Utility Cleaner Forming Group Leader Utility Cleaner- Forming
3.	FABRICATION “A" TWIST ANtl PLY GROUP: Fabrication" A Twist and Ply Operators Fabrication "A” Machine Cleanlr
4.
5.
6.
7.
FABRICATION'A" PACKING qROUP:
Fabrication”A" Packers Fabrication 'A" ProductionOpej-ator
ROVINGGROUP:
All Roving and milled Fiber classifications.
REINFORCINGMAT GROUP:
All Reinforcing Matclasslficatiojis.
MATERIALS DISTRIBUTIONCjHOUP: All Shipping and Stores classifidations.
67
8.	MAINTENANCE MECHANICAL GROUP:
Maintenance Mechanic Maintenance MechanicA^prentice. Carpenter-Painter
9.	MAINTENANCE ELECTRICAL GROUP:
Maintenance Electrician.
Maintenance Electrician apprentice.
10 MAINTENANCE COMBINED GROUP: Maintenance General Labour.
Janitor.
Maintenance Utility Tool CribAttendant.
Material Handler - Batchinuuse
When there are six employees In Group 11, two additional weeks in the prima will be provided.
itter
28:04 The maximum numl for vacations outside the Prirh for each group according torn i
of employees allowed off e Period shall be computed a following formula:
(a)
(b)
(c)
shall then beincreasedLtothe nearest whole number and shall be the maximum number of employees in the Group allowed off at any one time outside of the Prime Vacation Period.
$8
Example: In Group X a iwbivb (12) week Prime Vacation Period has been completely allocated and ninety-five (95) weeks of vacation entitlements are still to be taken in the remairlma forty (40) weeks of the vacation year.
95 140 = 2.4
Therefore, a maximum of tnrae employees in Group X would be allowed off at anyone; time outside of the Prime Vacation Period.
Notwithstandingthe above,
i)	if the calculation generates a number whose decimal fraction is grea er than .8 (eg. 3.81),
be allowed off at any one time outside the prime but within April 15th to September 15th and in the two week period which includes bo h Christmas and New Years Day. This applies tp continuous shift production only.
ii)	Group 9 (Utility Cleaner ®/L and Day Schedule Utility Cleaner) will be allowed 2 off at any one time outside the prime.
(o) 0)
Except as noted in 28:04 Skilled Mechanical Malntc i
and Group 7 (All Skilled Classifications) as ou employee from each groifb at any one time outside ' addition to the maximum according to the formi
e) (ii) for Group 6 (All lance Classifications) I lectrical Maintenance t ined in 28:05, one shall be allowed off the Prime Period In
(lumber as computed scribed in 28:04 (d).
(ii)
When the complement of a group 6 or Group 7 or both is eighteen (18) oi more, then the number of employees allowe 1 off from the group during the two (2)	which Includes
both Christmas Day and view Years Day, and the two (2) week period which Includes the annual March school brer <, shall be the maximum number computed at cording to the formula described in 28:04 (d) p|us two (2) additional per week.
69
28:05 The following Departi sidered as separate units for cations outside the Prime Peri
trhental Groups shall be con-tie purpose of vacation allo-od.
1. All Forming Department Glassifications except Utility Cleaner G/L and DaySchedulf Utility Cleaner.
2.	All Fabrication "A" Departlment Classifications.
3.	All Fabrication “B" Department Classifications.
4.	All Materials Distribution glassifications
5.	All Skilled Mechanical Maintenance Classifications.
6.	All Skilled Electrical Maln|enance Classifications.
7.	All other Maintenance Department Classifications.
8.	Utility Cleaner G/L and D^y Schedule Utility Cleaner
28:06 The classifications 01 Crib Attendant shall be exclw in section 28:03 and sectio these two (2) classifications s vacation during the period refi
Carpenter-Painter and Tool id from the units referred to n 28:05 and employees in lall be entitled to select their drred to in section 28:01.
This entitlement is valid only Iso long as there is only one (1) employeeinthe classification concerned.
28:07 Employees eligible f|r vacations shall be contacted in order of seniority and psked to select their entitlement.
The method of allocating vacations shall be as follows:
(a) (i) OPTION ONE
First Choice - Two (2), c Prime Period wherever the Prime Period plus o Period wherever applicable,
ne (1) week segments in the available or, one (1) week in ie (1) week out of the Prime
Second Choice - The remainder of his entitlement in weekly segments in any| manner. If any of this entitle
70
menl is taken outside of the choice, an employee may ele be taking one week’s vaeatior side of the Prime Period as
Fjrime Period during this :t to specify that he will one day at a time outlined in 28:07 (b).
oi II
An employee who chooses until all first choice selections Group or Departmental Gro|jp before making his second choice.
ion One must wait lave been made in his
(ii) OPTIONTWO:
The employee's lull entitlement in weekly segments outsidethe Prime Period.
An employee who selects Ofjition Two may choose his entitlement in any manner and this selection shall be considered as a complete and final choice.
An employee may elect to spepiy that he will be taking one weeks vacation one day at atime outsidethe Prime Period as outlined in ?fl*V7 (b).
(b) An employee may elect to Ci iuy«e one week of vacation which will be taken one d|y at a time subject to the following:
(i)	For continuous shifts, ond week will be considered as 3 or 4 shifts as specified by the employee.
(ii)	For non-continuous 8 houf shifts, one week will be considered as 5 shifts.
(lii) Single day selections must ds taken one day at a time, shall be restrictedlto one (1) per week, and a minimum of one week and a maximum of
further single e previously
selected day is taken.
71
come first serve bas ees per day per d Article XI) may be tion to the employees provisions of this agi
s. A maximum of 2 employ-partment [as defined in I at any one time, in addi-allowed off through other ileement.
(vi) Single day selections are not allowed during the two week period wt ich includes both Christmas Day and New Years Day.
28:08 When a recognized tion period of a day-schedule to extend his vacation perioc day shall follow his vacation absence adversely affects these circumstances anothe' is mutually acceptable to the The employee must notify extend his vacation period start of his vacation. Further tion period contains more then the same principles sM|; and other terms.
holiday falls within the vaca-employee, then he may elect by one day without pay. This period unless the employee's he Company's operation. In day shall be selected which Company and the employee. his Foreman of his intent to t least two weeks before the if the above mentioned vaca-han one recognized holiday, all apply regarding extension
72
28:09 Certain Vacation Special Arrangements for selected classifications are necessary to ensure the efficient operation of the Plant during vacation periods. The Company and the Union shall meet annually prior to the vacation period and mutually agree upon the implementation ot said Vacation Special Arrangement!.
28:10 The Company and the U to the general provisions of Article tionsforthe MechanicsintheAlloif ance Mechanicalgroup shall be re*
JiR agree that subject pOll, Vacation Alloca-50§tion of the Malnten-d so that:
(i)	At a complement of two 12) employees, one (1) shall be retained at any o|e time.
(ii)	At a complement of threap) or four (4) employees, a minimum of two (p) shall be retained at any one time.
Should the complementlof Mechanics in this section increase to five (fe) or more, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the matter with a view to increasing the above minimum restriction if such action is deemed necessary in the interest of Plan) efficiency.
ARTICLE XXI)t
TRAINING AND EDUCATIONAL MEETINGS
29:01 From time to time to attend classroom type training or outside of their regular working hourfe ings shall be at straight time, and ai notice shall be given. Such meetings ed on Saturdays, Simdays, or Cont and shall not exceed six (6Jhours In
employees will be requested educational meetings i. Pay for such meet-least seven (7) days shall not be conduct-act Agreed Holidays, my work week.
An employee requested to attend classroom type training, or an educational meeting which Is nit adjacent to, or during his regular shifts, shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours straight time wages. If the employee is not in attendance at the start or finish of the only for the time present at the meetirjg.
73
29:02 On a maximum of e daryear, Forming Departmsn vened and employees involve1
I *ht (8)occasions in a calen-shift meetings may be con-are encouraged to attend.
These meetings will take Place following a regularly scheduled shift, and will not exceed two (2) hours in duration. Pay for such meetings shall be at time and one-half the employee's basic classlf cation rate. Such meetings will not be convened on a Snt irday, Sunday, or recognized
holiday.
At each meeting, safety anc prime objective. Notice of the i at least one week In advance
health subjects will be the se meetings shall be posted
If the Company encounters meetings, the parties agree Company to discuss and exp
Attendance problems at such 0 meet at the request cf the ore solutions to the problem.
On the occasion w employees for courses or s Committee will be consulted
,en it Is necessary to select pcialized training, the Union Jn the Co mpa ny's se lectio n.
ARTIC
BENEFIT
LE XXX COVERAGE
30:01 The Company acknowledges that the following benefit plans are a effect:
(a)	Group Life Insurance P an
(b)	Weekly Indemnity Plan
(c)	LongTerm DisabilityFk n
(d)	Group Health Plan
(e)	Ontario Health Insuran e Pian (9 Dental Insurance Plan
An employee is eligible to accordance with their prov erning benefit plan docum
participate in these plans in ions, as outlined in the gov-nts. All benefit plan changes
4
become effective October 1, 19! stated. Some of the highlights o described below.
30:02
(a)	Basic Life Insurance Plan:	I
of basic annual e i $500, minimum $35,000 basi age for all eligible employees.
Employees also have Ac Dismemberment (A.D.& D.) B( Is supplemental to the Basic Li
(b)	Weekly Indemnity Plan
(i)
except as otherwise the plans are briefly
s rounded to nearest life insurance cover-
idental Death and nefit of $17,500 which e Insurance Benefit.
Payment of W.l. benef scheduled daily earnings, the minimum Unemployment Insurance (U.l.)
t will be 66.2/3% of In no event less than
(ii)
benefit entitlement and payment scheduled.
Benefit PaymentSchedulr
Shift Duration
(Hrs.) 1st Day
Scheduled Workini % of Maximum Dali
ubject to the benefit
Day of Absence Benefit Payable
3rd &
2nd Day Subsequent Day
a
12
50%
100%
If an employee becomes disabled pational accident, or Is confined a licensed hospital for at least twenty benefit will become payable from the ing day of absence .
(c) Long Term Disability Plan (L.T.D
100%
100%
due to a non-Occu-a bed patient In a four hours, the daily first scheduled work-
):
In order to qualify for L.T.D. cc /erage an employee
must complete a minimum of 12 vice with FCI. If he is not actively age is scheduled to commence, begin until he has returned to pay
of active ser-at work when cover-his coverage will not vork full time for full
totally disabled for longer than twenty-six (26) m ek s, having drawn their total Weekly Indemnity bene its, shall be entitled to apply for L.T.D. benefits. Em Jloyees who qualify wil receive a benefit equal to the greater of i) $375.00 per month plus $30.00 per r ronth for each full yeai of service up to a maximum of 60% of basic predisability earnings or li) 40% ings up to a maximum of $'
from any sources to which ap employer contributes,
except that portion of the (CPP) Disability Pension w
Canada Pension Plar hich is payable solely
because a disabled ample yee has a depended
child). In any event, incon which benefits are payable ir (including CPP dependent benefits) and payments from any employer cannot e; :ceed 85% of basic predisability earnings.
The payment of benefits is lubject to a pre-existinc fVM-»Hrtinn« limitation (d) Groi p Health Plan:
(i) Hospital Benefit
A 90% reimbursement
of basic monthly earn-,500 (including income
e from all sources foi respect of the disability
comi-nri\/ntn ancommoC ation.
(ii) Major Medical:
80% reimbursement of expenses for employee family coverage in eai reimbursement abovi expenses shall include
the first $500 of eligible coverage and $1,000 fo ;h calendar year; 100T these levels. Eligibh he following:
1.
Expenses Incurred are prescribed by a dispensed by a p' dentist. To be eligil assigned Drug Ideijr or must be an ex which contains a d been assigned a D vitamins.
of Hospital charges fo
for drugs provided the physician or dentist, an-Iharmacist, physician o ipfe, drugs must have a itification Number (DIN: :emporaneous mixtur ug ingredient which ha N. This does not includ
76
2. A Vision Care
ment of eligible expenses up to a maximum Of $100 every 24 mmths, per person, and $100 every 12 monthf for children under 18
years, for corrective
prescription lenses,
frames, or contact It nses, when such are recommended by a pt /sician or optometrist.
(e)	Ontario Health Insurance Plan:
The Company pays the empli yer health tax for the Ontario Hospital and Medical pfan (OHIP).
(f)	Dental Insurance Plan:
This plan Is comprised of threi (3) separate components, namely Basic (Prev mtive) Care, Major Restorative Care, and i
Eligible expenses for Major Restorative which Includes coverage for ini y: are reimbursed with Basic Care, are subject to sixteen hundred dollars ($1,60C person.
Eligible Orthodontic services moving or straightening of te ances, bands, etc., are provide 1 ance basis. This coverage is lim imum of twelve hundred and fift' insured person.
Dental Care,
s, crowns, and den-and in combination maximum benefit of per year per insured
vhlch pertain to the th, including appli-on a 50% co-insur-tedto a lifetime max-dollars ($1,250) per
Reimbursement is based on the Association Schedule of Fees, the dale of the announcemc charges shall be based on the of Fees. In 1999, effective on nouncement, covered dental on the 1999 ODA Schedule of the agreement of a three (3) yea
ch u
30:03 The Company shall pay the tj>tal cost of the plans described above.
1997	Ontario Dental n 1998, effective on nt, covered dental
1998	ODA Schedule the date of the an-rgos shall be based
Fjees contingent upon contract.
77
30:04
(a) The Company shall con plans for an employee w
work because of acciden or sickness
The Company shall the exception of We employee who is on on lay-off for forty (40) a
30:05 An employee shall t
Jnue to maintain the above io Is disabled and unable to
in the above plans, with Indemnity benefits, for an pproved leave of absence or lendar days or less.
e ineligible to receive vaca-
tion pay and Weekly Indemnity benefit simultaneously. If an employee becomes dlsa >ted prior to his scheduled vacation period he may choose to waive the Weekly Indemnity claim for that perio i and take his vacation or he may choose to waive his scheduled vacation period and have the vacation rescheduled in accordance with the provisions (a) and (b) below:
(a) For employees with the Company will end tions within July and/o convenientto the Comp:
ications in July and/or August, cjjvor to reschedule their vaca-August at a time mutually iny and the employee.
(b) For employees with vi August the Company si outside July and nient to the Company arfi
ARTIC J PENSIC
Employees' (dated Octobe January 1st, 1977, January
i cations outside of July and hall reschedule their vacations Augu it at a time mutually conve-d the employee.
£ XXXI N PLAN
31:01 An employee is eligible to participate in the “Fiberglas Canada Inc. Pe tislon Plan for Hourly-Rated
1st, 1972, as amended on fst, 1981, January 1st, 1985,
January 1st, 1989 and January 1st, 1995), in accordance
with its provisions. The high) in a Pension Plan booklet.
ghts of the “Plan” are outlined
31:02 The terms of the (January 1, 1995 to Decei
pension plan agreement inber31, 1996) between the
'8
parties in regard to the pension period January 1, 1997 to the end agreement and will be subject to tion.
3lan will apply for the1 of the present contract
gotiation upon expira-
ARTICLE XXltll DISPOSABLE COVI hALLS
32:01 Upon requesh disposa ile coveralls will be supplied to employ3es	il1 Chop Strands, Wet
Chop Strands, Milled Fiber.
ARTICLE XXXjll TERMS, CONDITI 3NS
MODIFICATION, RENEWAL At D TERMINATION
33:01 This Agreement shall beco ie effective on the 1st [V of June. 1997 and fhall remain effpct i|nt|Jf|P 31st ‘‘	rear thereafter unless
otlce in writing of its on or provision there-less than sixty (60) [nd twenty (120) days
42
da
Jay of May 2000 and from year to either party gives the other party desire to modify or amend any sec of. Such notice must be given no days, nor more than one hundred prior to the termination date ofthis agreement!
i\ en i
33:02 If notice of desire to modify|or or provision of the Agreement is gi' accordance with section 33:01, n mence not later than twenty (20) receipt of such written notice, and continue in full force and effect unt new Agreement or completion of the ings prescribed under the Labour Province of Ontario.
amend any section by either party, in ejjotiations shall corn-calendar days after this agreement shall consummation of a conciliation proceed-lelations Act of the
33:03 The parties hereto agree th; t this Agreement and all attached Letters of Intent andJUnderstanding and Memoranda cf Agreement, shall constitute the complete CollectiveAgreement between the parties hereto and the parties hereto are bound by its terms land conditions.
79
The Union agrees work stoppages, walkouts stop or inteherewith produc
33:06 The Company ago out ofemployees.
it there shall be no strikes, other actions which would
i.
that there shall be no lock-
SIGNEDAT GUELPH, ON 1997.
ForOwens ComingCanadi Guelph Glass Plant
J. VanSloun
G. Charlton
R. Friend
A.	Larsen C. Bloom
B.	Posey Leonhard R. Irving
C.	King
D.	Gritting
1IOTH1S23 DAY OF JUNE
For UNITE Local 1305 Guelph
J. Mlfsud
A. Trewin
D, Norris
R.	Conway C, Andrews
S.	Toms
APPENDIX A
BASIC HOURLY RATES OF PAY JUNE		, 1997		
		Con-		Jon-Con-
		tinoui		tinous
Job Classification	Code	Shift	Jod	Shift
Electrician	A1		L1	
Maintenance Mechanic	A2	21.25	L2	21.84
Carpenter-Painter			L4	
Furnace Operator	C1	19.21	N1	19.80
Binder Mixer	D1	18.95	P1	19.54
Batchhouse Operator	E3	18.72	Q3	19.02
ReinforcingMat Machine	E4			
Operator				
Storeskeeper			Q4	
Utility Operator-Forming	El	18.44		
Bushing HeatControl Man	E2		Q1	19.28
Yam Checker-Forming	F1			
BushingOperator	F2		R8	
Winder-Forming	F3			
Wet ChopOperatorAVinder	F5	18.32		18.86
Roll-Up Operator	F6			
ReinforcingMat				
Milled Fiber Operator	F7		RG	
Tool CribAttendant			R9	
Inspector-				
ReinforcingMat	G1	18.22	SI	18.76
Packer-Textiles	G2		S2	
Slitter				
ReinforcingMat	G3			
Fabrication BUtilitv				
Operator	G5			
Twist and Ply Operator	H2		T2	
ServiceAttendant				
Fabrication		8.12	T5	18.64
ServiceAttendant Forming	H5	-		
Wnder-Fabrication"B"	H6		T6	
Reconditioner-Forming	H7		T7	
81
APPENDIX 'A
SCHEDULES OF BASIC
1,1997
Job Classification	Coc	e	Con- tinous Shift	Code	Non-Con tinous Shift
Creel Operator End Finder Maintenance Utilitv B Utility Cleaner Production Operator	12 10 15 16 17		18.09	W1 W5 W4 W7	18.62
Material Handler Batch House Utility Cleaner-Forming				X2 X3	18.39
Machine Cleaner Janitor- Bobbin Reconditioner General Labour Plant Sweeper/Cleaner	K k;		17.73	Z1 Z2 Z3 Z5 Z6	18.26
Apprentice Electrical Apprentice Mechanical				M1 M2	17.47
F
fir it
The basic classification rate for pr the classifications of Electric^ Carpenter/Painter shall be $2.00 hourly rates listed above for the " of the probationary period.
All employees hired to work in Projdi hired into a new entry rate level. T current market rates for entry level
'bationary employees hired in i, Maintenance Mechanic, !per hour less than the basic ‘ forty-fve (45) calendar days
This
luction classifcations shall be new entry rate reflects the positions.
paid at severity-live percent
New production employees to be
(75%) of the classification rate durjrig the first nine'(9) months of employment.
All student will be paid at sixty-]five (65%) of the production classification rate of pay.
Group Leaders shall be paid a pin	.
their basic classification rate sha|l include the Group Leader's premium.
Charge Hands appointed for a lehgthy illness a vacation relief purposes shall be paid a premium of $.30 per hour plus a Group Leader's premium of $.70 per hoijr and their basicdassification rate shall include these premiums
emium of $.70 per hour and
82
APPENDIX		W		
SCHEDULES OF BASIC				
HOURLY RATES OF PAYJUNE		, 1998		
		mi-		'don-con-
		tinous		tinous
Job Classification	Code	Shift	Cod	Shift
Electridan	A1		L1	
MaintenanceMechanic	A2	21.67	L2	22,27
Carpenter-Painfer	-		L4	
Furnace Operator	C1	19.59	N1	20.19
Binder Mixer	D1	19.13,	- p-f	19.93
BatchhouseOperator	E3	19.09	"03	19.40
ReinforcingMat Machine	E4			
Operator				
Storeskeeper			Q4	
Utility Operator-Forming	El	18.81		
Bushing Heat Control Man	E2		Q1	19.66
Yam Checker-Forming	F1			
Bushing Operator	F2		R8	
Winder-Forming	F3			
Wet Chop Operator/Winder	F5	18.69		19.24
Roll-Up Operator	F6			
ReinforcingMat				
Milled Fiber Operator	F7		RG	
Tool Crib Attendant			R9	
Inspector-				
ReinforcingMat	GI	1.58	SI	19.13
Packer-Textiles	G2		S2	
Slitter				
ReinforcinqMat	G3			
Fabrications Utility				
Operator	G5			
Twist and Ply Operator	H2		T2	
Service Attendant				
Fabrication		1.48	T5	19.01
Service Attendant Forming	H5			
Winder-Fabrication"B"	H6		T6	
Reconditioner-Forming	H7		T7	
83
APPENDIX ‘A1
SCHEDULES OF BASIC	\
HOURLY RATES OF PAY JUNp 1,1998
Job Classification	Co	Je	Con- tlnous Shift	Code	Non-Con tinous Shift
Creel Operator	I	!		W1	
End Finder	I	I	18.46	W5	18.99
Maintenance Utility	I	5		W4	
Fab B Utility Cleaner	I	!		W7	
Production Operator	I	r			
Material Handler					
Batch House				X2	18.76
Utility Cleaner-Forming				X3	
Machine Cleaner				Z1	
Janitor -				72	
Bobbin Reconditioner	K	1	18.08	Z3	18.62
General Labour	H	2		Z5	
Plant Sweeper/Cleaner		-		Z6	
Apprentice Electrical				M1	17.82
Apprentice Mechanical				M2	
The basic classification rate for the classifications of Electric Carpenter/Painter shall be $2.0( hourly rates listed above for the f of the probationary period.
p robationary employees hired in fin, Maintenance Mechanic, per hour less than the basic st forty-five (45) calendar days
All employees hired to work in Pi Dduction classifications shall be hired into a new entry rate level. This new entry rate reflects the current market rates for entry levi II positions.
te
i dm
New production employees to (75%) of the classification rate employment
All student will be paid at sixtf-five (65%) of the production classification rate of pay.
Group Leaders shall be paid a their basic classification rate si premium.
Charge Hands appointed for a purposes shall be paid a premiu Leader's premium of $.70 per h ji rate shall include these premiurrp.
paid at seventy-five percent iring the first nine (9) months of
premium of $.70 per hour and tjall include the Group Leader's
engthy illness or vacation relief n of $.30 per hour plus a Group iur and their basic classification
APPENDI#		a		
SCHEDULES OF BASIC				
HOURLY RATES OF PAY J	UNE	1,1399		
		Con-		^on-Con-
		tinous		tinous
Job Classification	Cod	Shift	lock	Shift
Electrician	Al		L1	
Maintenance Mechanic	A2	22.10	L2	22.72
Carpenter-Painter			L4	
Furnace Operator	C1	19.98	N1	20.60
Binder Mixer	n	19.72	P1	20.33
Batchhouse Operator	E3	19.47	03	19.79
ReinforcingMat Machine	E4			
Operator				
Storeskeeper			Q4	
Utility Operator-Forming	E I	19.19		
Bushing Heat ControMMan	E2		Q1	20.0S
Yam Checker-Forming	F I			
BushingOperator	F2		R8	
Winder-Forming	F3			
Wet ChopOperator/Winder	F5	19.06		19.62
Roll-UpOperator	F6			
Reinforcing Mat				
Milled Fiber Operator	F7		RG	
Tool CribAttendant			R9	
Inspector-				
Reinforcing Mat	GI	18.95	S1	19.52
Packer-Textiles	G2		S2	
Slitter				
Reinforcing Mai	G3			
Fabrications Utility				
Operator	G5			
Twist and Ply Operator	H2		T2	
Service Attendant				
Fabrication		18.85	T5	19.39
Service Attendant Forming	H5			
Wnder-Fabrication “B"	H6		T6	
Reconditioner-Forming	H7		17	
T
35
APPEND]
IX ‘A’
SCHEDULES OF BASIC HOURLY RATES OF PAY JUNE 1,1999
Job Classification	Ccn	fe	Con- tinous Shift	Code	Ion-Con tinous Shift
Creel Operator End Finder Maintenance Utility Fab B Utility Cleaner Production Operator	12 i: IE IE 1/		18.83	W1 W5 W4 W7	19.37
Material Handler Batch House Utility Cleaner-Forming	-			X2 X3	19.13
Machine Cleaner Janitor - Bobbin Reconditioner General Labour Plant Sweeper/Cleaner	K K	1 l	18.44	Z1 Z2 Z3 Z5 Z6	19.00 19.00
					18.18 18.18
Apprentice Electrical Apprentice Mechanical				Ml M2	
obationary employees hired in n, Maintenance Mechanic, per hour less than the basic 1 forty-five (45) calendar days
The basic classification rate for p the classifications of Electrici,
Carpenter/Painter shall be $2.0Cf. hourly rates listed above for the fi si of the probationary period.
All employees hired to work in Production classifications shall be 'his new entry rate reflects the positions.
paid at seventy-five percent i ing the first nine (9) months of
hired into a new entry rate level.' current market rates for entry leve [
New production employees to bu (75%) of the classification rate du 1 employment.
All student will be paid at sixty I classificafio'nrtfteof pay.
Group Leaders shall be paid a [Jr their basic classification rate shall include the Group Leader's premium.
Charge Hands appointed for a Idngthy illnessor vacation relief purposes shall be paid a premium of $.30 per hour plus a Group Leader's premium of $.70 per hoir andtheir basic classification rate shall includethese premiums
five (65%) of the production remium of $.70 per hour and
8e|
January
February
23j24)25
Auguit
September
DecimEer
IDBDI
IE121E3I
1EDDI
□□□□□□□BQciaci !■□□□□ BciQQEinnannaEini BQElQQQQQQCliDI3!BE[QI31E[DC3E]EI10E3EIlS0ED0EE3l EBEaaaaHaeiuuEEEDcaraaauauEEEDaBi rarapiuiuijriEEnnnannuBUiEEGnoaHaBBaBi
CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE - A,B,C,D
Days
Nights
Days
Nights
Days
Nights
Days
Nights
Days
Nights
Days
Nights
CONTINUOUS SHIF
1991 T SC
HEDULE
A,B,C,D
January Days Nights	TT	fTs	sT	vTTF	w	T	F	S	T?	M	7	wT	r [?	Ts	Ts	Tm	T	W	TT	fTs	S	U	T	w	T	F	s
	i	2 3	4	3 6	7	B	9	10	11	12	13	14	‘ 16	17	IS	16	20	21	22 i	!3 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	D	3 A	A	A C	C	Z	B	B	B	D	D	D	ft A	A	c	C	Z	B	B i	a" d	D	D	A	A	A	C	Z
	C	3 S	B	3 0	D	0	A	A	A	C	C	C	1 B	B	D	D	O	A	A ’	A c	C	C	9	O	0	D	D
														 																
February Days Nights		J T	W	I F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F		S M	T	W	T	F	S	9 i	TjT	w	7	F	S			
		2 3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	{ 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 I	^24	2S	26	27	28			
	c	3 B	B	> 0	0	A	A	A	c	C	C	B	8	0	D	0	A	A	A ’	c|T	z	B	B	B			
	D	A A	A	sz	C	8	B	B	DIO		D	A	A	c	C	C	9	B	B 1	5To	0	A	A	A			
													i														
March Days Nights	S	J T	w	r f	S	3	M		w	T	F	3	M	T	W	T	F	S	S 1	TIT	w	T	F	S	S	M	T
	I	2 3	4	5 6	7	B	9	i0	11	>2	13	14 1	16	17	18	19	20	21	22 2	!3 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	D	3 D	A	A A	c	c	C	a	a	8	D	D	A	A	A	z	C	c	£ j	3 a	0	D	0	£	A_	£	C
	C	: c	B	3 B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	B	8	B	0	D	D	A ’	A A	c	C	C	B	a	B	D
																											
April Days Nights	w	T F	S	5 M	T	W	T			S	M	T V	T	F		s	M	T	W	nz	s	K	[M	!	w	T	
	t	3	4	6				10	ii	12	13	14 1	16	17	18	19	20	21	22 2	? 24	26	N«		2£	29	30	
	c	3 B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	z	C	c E	B	8	D	D	D	A	A 1	kZ	I	pTa		B	iT	D	
	D	3 A	A	\ C	C	C	8	8	B	D	D	D	A	A	C	C	C	B	B 1	3 D	D	IFTa		A	X	z	
																											
May	FSSMTWT FSSMTWT												S		M	T	w	T	F :	sTs	M	Ti	W	T	£J	$	S
	i 2 3 4 S 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 M 1												16	17	18	IS	20	21	22 2	*3 24	26	26	27	28	29	30	31
Days Nights	□aaaauuuQEiaaE uaninitnaEinincjaQU											BE	A	A	Z	*	Z	B	0 1	3 D	DJ	Dl	5		t\	z	z
												LIE	8	9	D	0	D	A	A 7	iz	Z	1	O'		nl	D	D
													.														
June Days Nights	M	w	T	s	s	U	T	w				8	T	W		F	S	9	m	tTw	T	u	sl	£	M]	T	
	1	1 3	4	e				10	11	12	13	14 1	16	17	18	19	20	21	2? 5	3 24	25	26	2T_	28	29	30	
	Z'	3 B	B l	D	D	A	A	A	z	z	z	B	B	0	0	D	A	A	A '		z	B	B	B	D	D	
	D	'»	A (	i c	C	B	B	B	D	0	D	A	A	c	c	C	0	a	B I	5 o	0	A	A!	A|	Cl	C	
																											
July Days Nights	w	F	S	M	TlW		T		S		M	T V	T		5		M	T	w	iTT	s	sl	M	T	w	T	F
	r	3	4	6		6	0	10,	Hi	!ii	10,	14 1	>6		10	«1	20	SI	22 2	0 24,		2Ji	27	§	29	30,	31
	0	t A	A l	: u	Z	B	B	B^	ol	D	»	A 7	A	c	z	*	B	51	B 1	d oi		3	A	s	z	1	Z
	c	3 B	B [	D	□	A	A	A	c	C		B 1	e	0	D	D	A	*1	A 7	E Z	Z		B	t!	0	D\	0
													....														
August Days Nights	s	j M	i	v T	F	$	s	M	T	W	T	F :	. s	U	T	W	T	I]	sTi	Tm	T	W	0	F	s	lS	E
	1	3		6	'	6	»	10	ii	12	13	14 1	16	17	18	19	2ol	2M	22 2	3 ?4	26	26		28 D	29	[35	E
	B	S	C	D	X	A	X	E	C	z	'B	B 1	r d	D	D	A	X	g	C <	11	_B	B_	ii		D	T>	X
	A ;	t A	c c	C	B	B	B	o	D	D	A	A .	‘"E	6	C	B	B		D 1	J D	A	A	7	C	|C	Z	IB
																											
September Days Nights	t y	y t	F .	s	M	T	(W	T	T	S	rs	fM '	!W	rr	F	S	s	M	[Tv	v _r_	[7	s	s	i_M	T	X	r
	i ,	3	4 S	8	7	Li	9	10	it	12	13	14 1	18		16	19	20	2?	^2	3 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
	A /	c	c c	B	B	i	D	D	0	A	A	i».	c	i	B	LB	B	o	It t	3 T	Li	iA	T	[5	Z	B	r~
	B l	D	D C	A	A	X	C	C	c	B	B	9	D	0	A	1*	A	c	Pci	' B	Ib	z	D	D	D	A	i~
_																											
October Days Nights	I f	S	S b	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	F	s	S	M	T	w	TT?	Ts	s		JL	W	T	F	£
	1	3	4 S	8	7	1	9	10	11	12	13	14 1	16	17	16	19	20	21	22 2	3 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	B E	D	0	A	A	A	Z	Z	z	8	B	B	D	D	A	A	A	Z	Z1	J B	B		D	D	D	£	£
	A S	\ c	c c	: b	B		D	D	D	A	A	A '	: c	Z	B	bTb|		0	D 1	> A	A	7	Z	C	C	B	B
i																											
November Days Nights	S N	1 T	w T	F	S	S	M	I	w	T	F	S	M	T_	W	T	F	s	sTu	iTT	W	T_	£	_3	s_	a.	
	1 2	‘ 3	4 5	' 6	7	%_	9	10	11	12	13	14 :	• 16	7?	18	19	20	21	22 2:	3 24	26	26	27	28	29	30	
	A l	l C	C E	r b	D	0	0	D	£	£	A	Z'	r.Z	B	B	If	D	D	D 4	[ A	A	z	Z	z	B	B	
	B.C	> 0	0 A	“ A	A	Z	C	Z	B	B	B	o’	’ D	A	A	A	C	C	C E	1 D	0	o’	O	D	A	A	
																											
December Days Nighls	T M	1 T	F S	S	M	T	w	T	F	S	S	M	W	T	F	S	s	M	t y	1 T	F	s	S	M	T |W|		T
	t 2	' 3	4 S	' 6_	7	8	9	’0	11	12	13	14 ' 5	i 16	17	16	IS	20	21	22 2:	i 24	26	26	27	28	29[30|		Jl
	B 0	i D	D A	' A	A	f	Z	Z	B	B	B	D >	' D	A	A	A	Z	z	11	l B	B	D	D	D	2	H	A
	A~|C	: c	m	Tb	£	0	0	£	A	A	A	3!	H	£	£	£	£	£	~p|7	Ta	£	Z	C	C	a	a	£
CONTINUOUS SHIFJS HEDULE - A,B,C,D
	R	8	U	T	hi	T	F	S	8	M	7	w	T	F S	S	w	7	W	T	tit		s	1st	T	M	T	F	s	$	M
	1	2	3	4	6	i	7	8	9	0	t	2	3	4 IS	16	7	8	9	20	2i|22		3	4	5	26	27	6	29	90	91
Days	Ft	)	D	3	A	A	A	C	:	c	B	B	B	D D	0	A	A	A	C	C	C	U	B	li	15	l>	D	A	A	A
Niahts	A	C	C	c	B	3	)	3	D	D	A	A	A	C C	C	R	a	U	D	O	u	A	A	A	C	C	C O		u	l
																														
	T	uV	T	F	S	5	Nt	T	w	T	F	9	8	M T	W	7	F	8	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	7		
	t	2	3	4	5	J	7	8	9	0	1	2	3	4 1	16	7	8	9	20	21	22	29	24	28	26	2/	26	29		
Days	C	5	C	B	B	□	0	D	D	A	A	A	C	t C	a	B	B	0	D	U	A	A	A	C	C	c	li	U		
Nighls	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	C	C	3	)	B	D	D C	E	A	A	c	c	C	0	U	B	D	O	u	A	A		
																														
March	w	T	F	8	8	M	T	w	7	F	S	S	U	7 Vt	| 7	F	S	6	M	T	w	T	F	S	S	M	7	W	1	
	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	0	1	2	3	14 1	16	1/	8	19	20	21	22	29	24	28	28	2/	26	29	90	
Days	B	D	0	D	A	A	A	C	c	c	8	8	B	D C	I D	A	A	A	C	c	C	H	u	O	L)	D	U	A	A	A
	A	C	C	C	n	0	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c c	C	B	D	B	0	D	0 *		A	A	c	C	c	B	B	h
																														
April	S	fi	M	T	w	T	F	R	S	M	7	W	7	F <	s	M	7	W	7	F	S	6	M	T	w	7	F	S	5	
	1	2	3	4	s	e	7	8	9	10	It	12	3	14 1	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	28	26	2/	28	29	90	
Days	c	c	C	3	B	B	0	D	D	A	A	A	C	C (	B	3	U	U	l>	U	A	A	A	C	C	C	a	ti	U	
NlQhts	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	0	B	D	o i	A	A	A	C	C	C	O	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	
																														
May	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	7	F	S	s >	7	W	T	F	s	s	M	7	W	T	F	S	S	M	7	w
	1	2	3	4	6	6	7	8	9	to	11	12	13	<4 1	16	17	18	19	20	21	22 >23		24	28	26	2/	26	29	30	31
Days	D	D	D	A	A	A	'Z	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	C	0	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C
Niahts	C	C	C	8	3	B	0	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	; B	8	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	U	li	U	U
																														
June	T	F	S	8	M	T	w	7	F	S	S	M	T	W	F	S	S	M	7	W	1	F	S	s	M	T	w	7	F	
	1	2	3	4	6	8	7	6	9	10	11	12	13	14 '	i 18	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	2b	26	2/	26	29	30	
Days	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	0	A	A	A	C	C	C 1	8	Ft	D	D	[)	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	It	li	D	
Niahts	0	D	A	A	A	C	C	c	B	0	3	D	0	D	A	A	C	C	C	B	8	O	U	D	D	A	A	A	C	
																														
July			M	T	W					M		W 7		F	S	M	7	W			6	S	M		W	T		S	S	U
	l				s					10	11	12	13	14	I 18	17	18	19	20	21	22	29	24	2b	26	27	28	2V	30	31
Days	D	D	A	A	A	c	C	r	B	B	B	D	b	D	. A	A	t	C	C	H	U	H	l>	b	J	A	A	A	C	C
Nights	C	C	R	B	n	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	0	D	0	D	A	A	A	C	C	c	B	U	U	l)	u
																														
August	T	W	T	F	8		M		W			$	S	M	W	F		s	S	M		W	7	F	s	S	M		w	7
			3	4			7		9	ID	11	12	13	14	> 16	17	18	19	20	21	22	29	24	28	26	2/	28	29	30	31
Days	c	B	a	B	D	D	0	A	A	A	C	C	c	B	» H	D	U	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	H	H	ii	U	U	U
Niahts	D	A	A	A	c	C	C	0	3	B	0	D	D	A	1 A	C	C	C	B	U	It	D	D	0	A	A	A	c	c	C
																														
September		8	R	u		w	1	F	S	S	M		w	TT	' S	S	M	7	W			8	8	M	T	w	7		9	
		?	3	4	5	8	7	8	9	to	11	12	13	14	5 16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	26	26	2/	28	29	90	
Days	T	A	A	c	c	C	8	B	3	D	D	D	A	A	t c	C	C	U	B	ri	O	D		A	A	A	C	c	C	
Niahts	B		n	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	C	S	R	4 0	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	D	U	u	u	D		
																														
	8	M	T	w	T	F	S	5	M	7	w	T	F	S	. M	7	W	T	F	S		M	7	W	T	F	5	S	M	7
	1	2	3	4	5	e	7	8	9	<0	11	12	13	14	5 16	17 18		19	20		22	23	24	26	26	2/	26	29 30		31
Days	B		B	u	C	c	A	A	A	C	c	C	B	B	) b	D	iD	A	A	A	C	C	"5	ii	Li	b	O	O		A
Nights	A	A	A	c	C	c	8	B	□	D	D	D	A	A	& =	C	,C	□	it	U	U	D	D	A	A	A	c	C		li
																														
November	W	T	F	s	S	w	7	W		F	S	S	h	T	W 7	F	s	S	M	T	W	7	F	S	S	M	7	lw	7	
	1	2	2	4	6	«	7	8	«	to	11	12	13	14	5 18	17	18	19	20		22	23	24	26	26		21	2U	3C	
	A	A	c	c	C	Ft	B	B	C	T	c	A	A	A	c c	c	B	B	B	D	l>	u	A	A	A	£	l	c	U	
Nights	B	3	c	C	c	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	8	B	D D	D	A	A	A	C	C	c	Li	B	11	D	U	u	A	
																														
	F	S	8	u	T	W	T	If	s	s	M	7	W	T	F S	S	M	7	W	T	f	s	s	V	11	W	7	F	6	S
	1	2	:	<	5	<	7 16		i	11		12	13	14	5 16		te		2C	2	22		24	26 2		2	26 2		y.	31
Days Nights	B	3	t	D	0	A	A	A	c	c	c	S	8	R	D D	b	A	A	A	C	t	L	U	U	B	t	D	D	A	A
	A	A	c	c	C	E)	R	3	0	D	D	A	A	A	C C	C	B	0		O	U	u	A	A	A	L	C	C	H	li
1999
CQNTMUOmSHlFTDA ^SCHEDULE — S,T MAINTENANCE AND MAT
January Days Nights ]	[T_	rr	X	Ml	\T	w	E	rr	pE	nr	E	E		E	E	rr	rf	M	[T	E	0	0	E	E		T	3	E	E	E	E
	E	E	3 :	3	E	6	E	E	E	E	E			E	E	M6j	n|		E		0	0		E		a			E		(3h
	0	xj	s	si	sj	1	0	_rj'	a	fsl	E	E	T		H			a		m	0	ff1		E	E	0	0		[jfl	E	s
	□	LJ	□	J	□		□	□	□	□	□	L	L	□	□	□	□	□	M □	□	□	□	□	□	L	□	□	□	□	□	□
^Fabruary I															pTtM			m		a	0	0	0	3	s	0	0	a	□	□	□
Days | Nighte
liUUUUUUUULiaUUlJULJL aE
Msrch	u	T	w	T	F	s	s		r	W	T	F	S	a	M	T	T	F	s	a	M	T		r						
	t	2	3	4	5	6	7	a	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	15 1	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
Oaya	a	r	7	I	S	S	tt	T	T	t	0	S	S	7	T	T S	s	S	T	T	T	s	5	S	T	T	T	s	$	s
Nights																I														
April
Days
Nights
May Days Nights	S 1	s 2	M 3	T 4	W 5	T 6	F 7	s T	s 9	10	T ii	w 12	7 13	F 14	s 15	S u	M 1?	tTw i 19	T 20	x 21	t 22	T 23	p 24	T 25	26	T 27	F 20	S 29	s 30	u x
	S	S	S	T	x	T	x	x	S	x	r	T	s	S	x	T	T	r s	x	x	T	T	7	S	x	x	x	T	x	s
							_																							
PI																														
•tuna Days Nights	t	w	T	r	a	S	Wt	3	W		x	S	s	M	t	w	T [	F S	s	E	E	W	T	X	S	x	M	T	w	“
	1	2	3	4	5	6	x	T	9	10	n	12	ii	14	15	16	17	8 19	20	E		23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
	X	3_	x	x	x	x	s	x	x	7	x	S	x	x	r	x	rj	EE	x			t	S	x	x	T	T	x	s	
																	[			rr										—
II																														r
July Days , Nights	T	X	S	$_	M	T,	w	T	F	S	x	M	T	W	i	x	sj	3 M	T	w	T	X	X	S	5	T	w	x	F	
	1	T	3	4	5.	6i	7	8	9	10	It.	12	13	14	15	1?	m	ft 191	20'	H	22	23^	w	25	w	27	26	29	30	31
	X		x	x	x	S	i	x	x	x	T	x	S	x	x	x	77	[SI	E	7	x	X	X	S	SI	x	x		S	x
	_J	□	Ii	—		□	□	—	_!	J	0	_	J	_j	_	J	J	ri	□	J	-J	□	□	J	□	I	J	□	-	
August Days Nights 1	E	E	fi	[w~	rr	E	E	P	E	rr	E	E	E	E	rr	E	T]	vTTj	E	rr	E	[m]	E	fw"	IT	E	T		E	[7
	E	E [7	F E	E 3	E fei	5	tr	7 li	E E	E E	nr x	MT x|	0 E	1	pr E	E E	17 x	8 l|1	@	E E	S3	xj	E E	g xj	E T	p27j 7]	28 T	@ xj	E xj	E x
	M		LU			0	0	J	n	n		pj		r	pi	\ ]		* \		j	n	j	pi	ri	r	I		r~\	n	i
	:—n																												^ 1		i—
*4pt*mb#f	w	a	x	!S	x	M	ii	x	E		£	s	E	E	E	I	T1	i s	x	T	x	x	F	s	T	M	3	w	T	□
	Li	ii	T	Li	5	6		5		l!i	in	LX		I!1	ill			P '9	20	|21	[22	123	124			27	s	[m	M	r
Days Nights	0	0	11	E	x	x	0	!?	0	s	x	x	rr	[t	IT	S	X j	i r	T	7	x	[s	I	x	7	7	Ll	I	S	F
	□	□		L													n													
		a																															
October Days Nights		£	[8	F	\L	iw	T	x	:S	x	M	T	w	x	x	,s		i r	W	x	x	S	x	M	T		T	F	S	x
	T	IT	7	2	7	x	P	8	9	to	It	12	13	14	15	16		1 19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	x	7	T	T	x	T	x	x	T	s	x	s	T	x	T	x	8.1	7	T	7	S	S	3	T	T	T	S	S	3	7
																	11													1
_	 1																		^														□
*»i*mbar Days Nights		T	w	x	F	x	XM		x	x	T	F	x	x	M	x	W	laQEKnnranaaHcia												
	1	2	3	4	S	6		iJ	T	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17 1	3IQE1E0SE2SIE3EIIEHEDESE3												3
	T_ _	T	x	1	s	x	3	3	x _	x	x	x	x	x _	x	x	xi													
																					3	S|T|T|T|SjSjsjrJ								
Days
Nights
3]4|6 X 1_ X X 10 11. 12 13 t* 16 16 MHSSS TTTSS
M r W T F s
21 M 23 ?4 25 26 ?? 28 26 30 31
tTs s s tTt s sstT
1 Nights	_E			G	G	G	G	G				Ex		£	F			G G	G	G	G			£	£i£		At			
September Days Nights	M	T	W	T	F	s	S	M	T	W	T	F	s	s	M	T	W	F	6	S	M	r	W	r	F	fi	a			
	1	2	3	4	5	6	/	B	9	to	ll	12	13	14	15	16	17	a 19	20	21	32	23	24	25	25	27	26	29	30	
	F	f	F	r	F			G	G	Q	G	G			F	F	£	F			G	G	G	fi	fi					
	G	G	G	G	G			Ii	£	£	f	£	-	J	G	G	P	G			£	£	£	£	F			G	G	
October Days Nights	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	w	T	F	S	s	M	T	w	T	F	9	M	T	w	T	F	s	fi	M	T	W	T	
	1			4	b	B		a	9	10	it	12	13	14	15	16	17	I9	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	78	29	30	3i
	F	f	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	£	£	F		G	G	G	G	G							
	G	G	G			l	£	£	£	F			G	G	G	G	G		£	F	£	F	I			G	G	G	G	G
NOWnbar Days	S	S	M	T	w	T	F	S	s	M	T	w	T	F	S	S	fw	w	T	F	8	S	u	T	W	T				
	'	2	a	A	s	B	i	B	9	10	n	12	13	14	15	16	17	! I9	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	71	78	79	30	
			Q	G	G	G	G			F		F					G	i G	G	G					F					
fhghts		lr|F			-£	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			£ J	£	£	£			G	G	G	G	G			
M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	w	T	F	S	8	M	r	w
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	IB	17
G	G	G	G	G		_	f	F	F	I	F			G	G	G
F	F	F	F	F		_	Q	G	G	G	G			£	£	F
Days
Nights
MS 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 213 29 30 3
1999
CONTINUOUS SHIF' SHIFT ELECTS It
January Oays ' Nights		S_	3.			w	r.	F	s	S	M	y	W	T	F	7r	775	T	ft	T	F	Ta	77	M	T	]w	r	F	$	3
						e		8	9	ID	11	12	13	14	IS	16	18	19	20		22	723	24	25	26	i 27	28	29	30	3i
							Y_	X	X		2	2	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	Z	7		[to	W	Y	7	' X	X	z	T	T
						n			[W	1 W| Y		[y	[x.	X_	2	2f	Jw	W	Y_	Y	HE		X	Z	z	VV	w	1	Y	1
February 1 Days Niqhrs	M		W		F		£	M	7	ft		7	7	T	77	TTv	[7	T	7	7	M	r	Iw	T	7	7	7	-	—	n
			J			b		*L		10	11	12	(3	14	16	16 1	18	is	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26	~	—	—
											W	7	Y	h	X w	X 2 w|>	z \7	w x_	W X	w x_	Y z	Y B	X W_	1	Z Y_	z 3	2 0	J	□	-
	X_	[xj	[?	\7	5	(w	H	m	til	3	a	J	a																	
' March Days Nights	0	7	w	7	T	T	7	77	7	w	7	7	7	7	B		T	7	a	7	77	m	[w	0	E	7	7	rsn	0	[w
	I 1 TE	2 w	3	4	s	6	7	8	9	10	ii	12	13	14	<15	R? v	16	19	20	21	22	fa	24		26	27	fa	115. 29	15	H?
	W	W	T	V	X	X	X	7	z	W	W	Y	Y	Y	X	X z	z	w	w	w	Y	[7	X	X	z	z	z	w	W	Y
	X^	X	2			w	to	7	Y_	£	x_	2^	2	z	W	wtv	Y	7	x_	*-	z	jz	w	w	_Y_	7	_v	_x_	Y	7
April I t|f|s|8|mIt|wIt|f|s|s|m|t|w|t[																7Ts 16 1)	vi7	75 19	7 20	7 21	T 22	3	II	7	7	7	to	T	T	-
															a								•iTT	25	26	27	28	29	30	-
. Days Nights																														
															II	W ft	w	Y	Y	X	X	IT	g	z	W	W	Y	V	X	
	ij«|W|W|yjy}x |X (Z|ZjZ|W|WlYlVl															xfx	II	2	Z	to	W	it	a	X	X_	X	L	l	w	
SCHEDULE
May
<
> Days i Nights
m.
WjW,
2? 2!
W|W|Y
' June i Oays ' Nighis	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	w	m		s	3	M	r	W			S	S	M	T	w	T							
	V	X		Y Z	Y Z			6	9	10	11	12	13	14	is	16	17	6	19	20	21	?2	23 Y	24 Y	25 X	26 X	27 X	28 Z	29 Z	30 W	
						V 2	X w	X W	L Y	i V	to X	to	W	Y Z	Y 7	X w	X W		2 Y	2 Y	W	W									
																					X	X	Z	Z	w	W	W	Y	Y	X	
JiJy Days Nighis			S	8	M		W	r	F	3	s	M		w			S		M		w			R							
					5				9	10	ii	12	13	14	15	16	17	8	19	20	21	??	2.1	74	7.1						31
				Y	X	X		1	ff	W	to	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z		to	to	Y	V	X	X	X	r	7	W			
		* £				w	*	Y	X	X	X	l	Z	w	w	Y	Y		X	X	Z	z	w	w	w	Y	V	X	X	z	z
August Days Nights	S	M	T	W	T	F 6	s	S	M	T	w	T	F	8	3	M	r		T	F	8	s	M								
							7	8	9	to	11	12	13	14	<5	16	47		19	20	21	22	23	74	75	76					
		X	A						Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	Z	W	V		Y	X to	X W	X w	Z Y	2 Y	W X	W X	Y Z	Y 2	Y 2	X w	X w
				Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X		Z												
September Days Nights	w	T	F	8	S	M	T	w	T	F	s	8	M	T	w	T		sIm		T	ft									
						6	/	6	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	i it	20		2?	n	24	?fi	2fl					
						Y	V	X	X	z	7	J	71	7i	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	W	w	V	Y	Y					
	V	Y	X	X	X	l	L	to	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	w y	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	Z	Z	w	w	Y	V	
October Days Nlghta		S	3	M		W	T	F	s	s	M	T	W	T		8	s	T	W	T		8								
	1									10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17 1	19	20	21	2?	73	24	76	2A	27				
	Ii				Y	X	X		2	z	to	to	V	Y	X	X	x i	2	to	to	Y	Y	Y			z	7	to	w	
								Y	Y	Y	X	X	2		w	p	h y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	Z	W	to	Y	Y	X	X	X
November Days Nighis	M	T	W	r	F	s	8	M	T	W		F	6	S	M	T	w	F	8	3										
							7	8	9	10	ft	12	13	14	15	16	17 1	19	20	21	2?	73	24	75						
			X	A						Y	V	X	X	X	l	z	W \	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	7	V	V	to			
					Y	Y Y		X	X	2	z	to	w	w	Y	Y	X X	Z	Z	Z	w	W	V	Y	X	X	X	z	z	
December Days Nights	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	s	S	M	T	IV	T	F 8	8	M	T	w	r	F							
					b			B	9	10	11	12	3	14	16	16	17 1	19	20	21	22	73	24	25	2C	27				
								Y	Y	X	X	X	Y	z	to	7J	Y Y	Y	X	X	2	Z	V	V	V	Y	Y	X		
			Y	Y	Y	X	X	L	T	W	to	S'	Y	V	X	X	Z 2	z	N	N	Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	Z	w	to	Y
20oA
CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE SHIFT ELEC rRICIANS______
January	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M		tv		F ,	5	M	T	W	T	F	s	S	M	I	1V	T	F	S	S	M
	1	2	3	4	6	6	7	8	9	to	tt	12	13	14 1	5 16	17	'8	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
Days	1	l	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	I	z	w	W	Y	F Y	X	X	L	1	W	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	Z	W
Nights	Y	V	X	X	Z	z	w	w	w	Y	Y	x	X		11	w	W	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	Z	w	W	Y	Y	Y	X
																														
February	T	w	T		s	s	M	T	w			s'		M	W	T	F		S	M	7	w	T	F		S	M			
	1	2				6	7	3	9	to	li	12	13	>4 1	5 (6	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	28	27	28	29		
Days		Y	Y		X	X	Z	z	W	w	Y	Y	Y		l!	7	W	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	Z	7	Z	W	W		
Nights	X	Z	Z	w	w	Wl*		Y	X	X	Z	2	ziwv		\ Y	Y	XI	X	X	Z	ZJ	W	W	Y	Y	Y	X	X		
																														
March	w			s		M		w	r				M	T	T		s	5	M		w			S	s	M		w		F
	1					6	7	8	9	to	it	12	13	14 1	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	26	26	27	28	29	30	31
Days	V	Y	X	X	X	z	I	W	w	Y	Y	Y	X		Z	W	w	W	Y	Y	X	X	z	Llll		W	W	Y	Y	X
Nights					w	V	Y_		jc						!Ll	_X	.X	x.			vJ	W	il	x	x	_x	_X			W
April	s		M		w	7	F	S	s	M		W		F	I s	M		W	r	F	s		M	T	w	T	F	S	S	
	1	2	3							10	11	12	13	M t	1 16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	20|30|		
Days	x	*	z	*	w	W	Y	Y	Y	X	X	7	Z	w	W	Y	Y	X	X	Z	7	Z	wl	W	Y	Y	X	*	xl	
Nights	Vi	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	_Z	Z.	w	W	Y	Y	X	xlz		z.	w.	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	ZJ	z	W	wW		
																														
May	M	T	W	T	F	s	s	M		w				s	r	W			s	5	M		w			s	S	M	T	w
						6	7			to	tt	12	13	14 1	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	26	26	27	281	29	30	31
Days	7	I	w	W	Y	Y	V	X	X	z	z	W	W	w	Y	X	X	Z	7	z	V	W	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	Z	W
Nights	V	Y	X	X	7	z	7	W	YV	Y	Y	X	X	X	[ t	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	W	W		Y	Y	X
																														
June	T			s	M		w		F	S	&	M		w	F			M	T	w	T		S	s	W	T	W	T	F	
	1	2	3			0	7	8	9	10	tl	12	13	14 •	b> t6	17	18	19	20	21	72	23	2<t	26	26	27	28	29	30	
Days	v/	Y	Y	Y	X	X	7	7	W	W	W	Y	Y	X		z	z	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	z	J		Y	
Nights	_x	2	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	Z	W	W Y	Y	V	X	X	z	ZJ	W|	Wl	V/	X	Y	X	LX	7	
																														
Juty	s	S	u	T	W	T	F	S	S	M		w		F	S	M		w			s		u		w	T	F	s	S	M
		2		4				8	9	to	11	12	13	14	> 16	17	18	19	20|21		22	23	24	25	26	27	23	29	30	31
Days	y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	W	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	z	z z	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	2	Wl	W	Y	V	Y	X
Nights	r	z	w	_W	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	7	w	W	Y	F Y	X	X	Z	1	w	V	Y	Y	Y	X	xl	7	7	Z	W
																														
August		w		F	S	S	M		w			5	S	V	w			S	S	w	T	W	7	f		s	M	t	w	T
	i	2	3	4		6	7	8	9	1C	11	12	13	14	5 '6	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
Days	X	l	z	W	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	l	7	Z	W	N Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	vJ	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	7
Nights	Y	Y	Y	X	X	JC	Z	7	Y	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X 7	Z	w	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	1	7	2	w	W	Y	Y
																														
September	F	S	S	u	T	W	T	F	S		M		W	T	S	S	M		w	r	F			M		w	T	F	S	
		2		4		6	7		9	•o	tt	12	13	14	6 16	17	18	IS	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
Days	V	Vi	V,	Y	Y	JC	J<	i	Z	J	VI	W	Y	Y	X x	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	Z	V,	Wl	
Nights			X.	2	z	J		Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	Z	■V W	W	Y	Y	X	X	I	Z	z	W	w	Y	Y	)	X	
October	s	M		W			s	S	M		w	7	F		S	M		w		F	S		u	T	W	T	F	S		M I T
Days	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	e	9	to	11	12	13	14	ii	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26	29	30|31
	V	V	Y		X	Z	z	Z	Vi	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	Z	W	W	Y	Y	Y		>	Z	Z	Vi	VI	VI	Y Y
Nghts	X	1	z	vJ	Vi	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	1	vJ	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	1	Z	X	V,		Y	Y	X	X	)	z| Z
November	W	T		S	s	M		W	T	F		S	u		w		F	$	S(M~		t|w				s	s	M	T	w		
						6				10	11	12	13	it	15	16	17	18	19(20		2122		23	24	25	28	27	26	29	30	
Days	X	X	Z	Z	z	Vi	Y	Y		X	X	X	7	z	W	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	Z	Y	Y	W	Y	Y	>		
Nights	w	W	Y		Y	X	X	Z	z	Y	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	1	Z	7	w	WY		Y	>	X	x|	Z	7	Y		
																															
December		S	S	V	T	w	T	F	s	S	M		w	T			S	M	7	w	7	F	S	S	M	T	w	7	F	s	S
	i	2		4	6	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	U	16	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	26	26	27	28	29	30	31
Days	z	z	z	vJ	Y	Y	Y	X	xl	X	z	z	vJ	V	Y	Y	Y	X		z	7	Y	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	Z
Nights	Y	Y	Y		X	iz	zjj		Y		Y	Y	x		Z	Z	z	w	w	Y	Y	X	>	>	X	Z	Y	w|y		Y	Y
CONTINUOUS NIGH7
19$8
'SCHEDULE - Q,H
September								I	N	T	F	S	R :	T	W	T	F	s	s	M	T	w	T	F	S	s	M	T	W
						a	7	e	*9	10	JJ	2	13	5 is	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	2t>					
Days Nkjhts																													0
	Q	Q	R	R	R	0	Q	Q	R	R	R	0	0	) R	R	R	Q	5	Q	R	H	H	0	u	0				
October Days Niqhls								T	F	S	R	U	T	/ 7	F	S	s	M	T	W	TT7		8	s	M	7	w	T	F
	1	i	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	4 15	16	17	16	19	20	21	TiYli								
	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	0	r|r		R	O	o	3 ft	R	R	0	0	0	R	rIrIq			0	0	R	R	R	Q
1,- ;—								sIm			W		F	3 8	V		W				s |w			w				S	M
Days Nlqhls										to	"	12	13	4 15	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	20				
	0	R	ft"	R	0	0	0	R	R	R	Q	Q	0	R R	R	Q	Q	0	R	R	R	Q	Q	O	R	R	R	Q	0
December Days NlQhl8							M		W	T	F	R	s	M T	W	T		S	S	M		W	T	F	S	3	M		w
		?	3	4	5	«	7	e	8	10	11	12	13	4 15	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24						
																													_Q
		R	n	R	Q	0	Q	_R	_R	R	Q	Q	Q	R R		Jo	12	jo	Jr	[r	1 h| 0		lolo		[h	[h			
£	i	y	«	M	rj	£		u	«	y d		«?lp	u	u	a	P	P	V	«	U	a	P	D	£	«	a	a	D	0	“wAN
																														6AB<]
IE	oc	62	02	U	9?	S2	«	E2	K	12	02	OlALe	a	8t	Sl	91	Cl	di	a	Ok	6	9	2	»	s	9	_c_		1	
2	i.	«l	i	«	s	s1	7	1		i	w	s |p	i	i	M1	i	w	s	6		1	M	1		s	s	4	1	M	raqui904C
BIE2SESISE3EI2I2E3lSG3tl3HB
■opBBBaanQSBHtiippraBBonnagBaBngpg
JoJajuiu|o|D|o|u|a
0	ra	0	s	Jr	S3	0		0	o:	[h	[aj	0	0	l£L	0	0	0	0	bjoj	9.
n	□	3	Lj		□	□		□	P			J			L_		i		1 1	
i	i	04 s	Bll _i_	1	1	91 1	n	Li	El 0		fu 0	01 h	T s_	IT T	1	1	0 \li	i	117 slsj	
bAbq
a	a	u	a	a	P	a	a	u	a	a	0	a		b	a	a	q	u	ti	al	a	0	0	a	a	U	0	a	D	a
																														
IE	o€	«	w	ze	92	52	w	C2	22	12	02	61		ii	91	91	91	Cl	21	ll	Ol	6	B	<	9	s	1	e	2	\
i	n	s	s	4	L	M	i	n	s	6	J	1		71	W	s	S	4	1	M	±	yt	8	s	J	1	M	i	N	s

H	a			0	u	a	a	0		D	a	a		0		0	a	u	a		0		a	a	a	0	0	0	a	u	«C|0!N
																															«Abq
IC	oc	62	82	22	92	S2	92	C2	It	12	02	61 bU		21	91	91	91	CL	21	II	01	6	fl	i	9	s	9	c	2	i	
s	4	1	M	i	W	s	S	oil*		M	1	«l|		s	4	-l		1	W	s	8	4	i	M	i	w	s	s	4	i	Amp s
4“|o|sis|“|“4«|o|olo|“|.“n
I^^^HHMMjBOCIQCIDCiraEllSCIGgQEIQQI
lSj0§BEBra@SilHIiB0![Iifl!010ini (50*01011111101111011
■apaaaHannaaaEnDOEioBBaanaaHPaciP
5i5R»i
2000
CONTINUOUS NIGHT SCHEDULE - Q,R
AprR
Days
EH
if-
May Days Nights							w	T I	S s	M	T	W T	F	S	S	M 7	W	T	F	S S	M	T	V
	1 2	•3 *	&	6 ’	a	9	13	11 1	13 1	15	16	1? 1	19	20	21	22 2							
	7 f	'hC		U"	1 R			uc	R R	R	U	US	R	R	h	US	ru	r|r		RS	ru	U	1
Juna Days Niqhts							R	S I	T 1	T	F	s	U	7	w	III	8	S	M	T V	V 7	F	
	1		5	e	0		10	11 1	2 13 1	i^	16	17 1	t 19	20	21	22 2	3 24	2b					
	7"	f U 2		7*	f R*			O'"	} R fl	0"	u	U'	R	R	U	U l	R	R	R	U c	ru	R	
July Days Nights					F S	s	M	T	'1	s		M	W		F S		S M	T	W	7	F S	W.	
			4 S		> a	9	10	11	2 13 1	15	16	17	a is	20	21	22 J							2
	R	r up															S’ R	R	R				
			IU	R	r|r			cr	R r	0 0 |Q			R R										
January Days Nights	8	S	M	7	W	T	F	s	S	M	7	w 2			S	M	7	w	7	F	S	S			w	7	f	S	s	1
													13	14	16	17	IB	19	20	21	22	23			26	it	26	29		
	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	a	9	0	II												-							
		R	R	R	U	U	U	R	R	R	u	a	U	R	7 R	u	6	0	R	R	R	u	u	u	R	R	R	0	U	t
February Days Nights							M	7	W	7 F		R	s	w	W	7		s	8	M	7	w	7	f Is		S	M	T		
					fi	6	7	a	9	10	11	12	13	14	5 16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24							
	R	R	R				7	7	7			U{7		7	RjU			7	7	if				R|R		R				
March Days Nights						nr		w			R	R	M	T	H 7		3	s	M		W					M		W		
	1	2	0		5	6	7	a	?•	10	1i	12	13	14	5 16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23								
	u	r| R | R			U	a		R	R	R	u	u		R	R R	u	u	U	R	R	R	U	u	0	R	R	R	u	u	l

								7	FTs	TsTk	iTT	wT	T	f"	S	s	M	7	W	7	F	s]7		M	T_	w	7
	x	W 7	F	s	S Y	17	Wl																				
ug		7 3	p	&	o 2	P	p	to	11 12	13 1_	EE	El	17	16	19	2C	21	22	23	24	25	26 2/		28	29	30	3
Days Niqhts	7	UO	1 H	7	7 R	E	a	U	R R	’ 7 ^	:u	3	7	if	7	U	u	U	7	7	7	uju		u	7	7	1
September Days Nights	T	sTs	ilMlTl		wTi	Tf	T	7	M]7	|W|1	TT	II	T	M	T	7	7	T	7	7	7	IM		7	7	7	
		2 1	iiTiTl		6 7	' a	T	10	11 V.	[13 i	« is		]7	16	19	20	?i	22	23	24	25	21	23	26	29	30	_
			T\	□						gup	E	□	_	7	u	U	U	jf	7	7	77		a	7	H	7	L
	a	05	aa	H	0?	k	JU	5	iah			H|H|															
1 1 mu M											IE	0	7	W	T	E	s	E0		jTl	0	ma		0	0	M1	]
Days j Nights	Sid										m	P	17	16	19	F	2|	B	6	lEj		0		261	i		3
	IjJIJdnCltdUldHClCiUll										ru	R	7	R	U	E	if	E	0	It	h:	0	u	7		R_	z
											i -																
November Days Nights	W	T j I	nr	S	Up	rpy	7	iFlsli		TTmT	Tw	I	F	S	s	M	7	w	T_	F_	3		M	7_	w	7_	_
	7	7 ]	3 *_	5	6	F 6	9	10	lit:	7 jafi	i 15	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	n	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	-
	u	U1	R 7	7	Ul	ru	7	7	0	B		7	7	u	U	u	w	R	7	U	U	U	7	7	7	u	-
December Days Nights	7	sT	SjM	7	wT	7 ( F	7	7	mT	T [Wf	FJF	7	7	M	7	w	7	7	7	7	u	T	w	7	7	7	3
		2 '	3 7	5	TT	7 7	7	to	ii i	12 13 :	4 15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26	29	3C	
	11	0"	R 7	7	5	T U	7	I	EE	TO"	ajs	R	R	U	U	u	R	R	R	a	U	U	R	7	7	U	Z
2obo
THREE SHIFT SCHEDULE ■
[cIuItI^ItIfUIsImItIwItIfIIsIsIi
J,K,L