COLLECTIVE A3 EEMENT
betwee
FIBERGLASCAI UDA INC. GUELPH, ON ARIO
and
AMALGAMATED CLOTh iG AND TEXTILE WORKERS l INION A.F.L. - C.1.0. C.L.C.
and its LOCAL 1: 35
FIBERGLASCANADA 3LASS PLANT
JUNE 1st, 994
00856 (06)
INDEX
ARTICLE	SUBJECT	PAGE NO.
I	General Purpose......„............... 6
II	Recognitionand Unionsfecurity........... 6
III	Exdusions.............................   7
IV	Reservation^ Company Rights............. 7
V	Nondiscrimination & Conditions of
Employment...........................   8
Vt	Addresses.............................   9
VII	Union Activities....................... 10
VIII	Representation.......	  10
IX	Grievance Procedure.................... 14
X	Meetings............................... 17
XI	Seniority............................   17
XII	Transfers and Promotions............... 24
XIII	Reduction in V\fork Foret ............. 35
XIV	DiscontinuedJobs....................... 38
XV	Recall................................. 38
XVI	Job Postings........................... 39
XVII	Wages, Hours of Work, mnch and
Rest Periods.......................... 43
XVIII	Overtime..............................  47
XIX	Rejxrrting/flrWork and Emergency
XX	Shift Premiums and Continuous
Shift Premiums........................ 49
XXI	Notification of Absence ............... 50
XXII	Absences............................... 50
XXIII	Leaves of Absence...................... 51
XXIV	injury and Disability.................. 55
XXV	Safety, Health and Secumy.............. 56
3
INDEX
ARTICLE	SUBJECT	PAGE NO.
XXVI	Recognized Holidays.................... 5*
XXVII	Vacation Plan...................
XXVIII	Vacation Allocations...........
XXIX	Training and Educational	Meetings.... 7(
XXX	Benefit Coverage ...................... T
XXXI	Pension Pian.......................... 7»
XXXII	Disposable Coveralls.................. 7!
XXXIII	Terms and Conditions, Modifications,
Renewal and Terminations.............. 7!
Appendix ‘A‘.......................... 7t
91 ffi
COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT
This Agreement is made and enta red intothis 1st day of June 1994.
BETWEEN
FIBERGLAS CANADA INC., ® Corporation existing under the laws of the Dominion0' Canada, with a Glass Plant in Guelph, Ontario, resperively referred to in this agreement as "Company"
OF THE FIRSTF'ART
• and-
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, A.F.L. ■ C.I.O.. C.L,t;„ hereinafter referred to in this agreement as "InterWttonal Union", and its Local 1305 Fiberglas Canada Sliss Rant, respectively referred to in this agreement ad Local Union"with said "International Union"
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
The parties heretomutuallyagree as follows:
5
ARTICLE I
GENERAUPURPOSE
This agreement Is entered into by the parties in order to
provide for orderly collective bargaining relations betweenthe Company and the Union. It is the desire of both parties to secure prompt and fair disposition ol grievances, to eliminate noarruptlon of work and Interference with the efficient operation of the Company’s business and to maintain fair wages, hours and working conditionsfor employees wluln the bargaining unit.
Our goal Is to provide quality products and services that meet our customer expectations and through continuous Improvement efforts enhance the competitive position of the plant, guided by the parties' most recent Terms of
Referencedocument
ARTICLE It
RECOGNITION AN UNION SECURITY
2:01 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent with respect to wages, hours of work and other working conditions, for the Company’s hourly-rated employees save and except those employees excluded In Article ill.
2:02 The word “employee'' or “employees* wherever used in this Agreement shall mean any or all of the employees, as the case maybe, in the bargaining unit as defined in section 2:01 unless the context otherwise provides.
2:03 Where the masculine pronoun is used it shall include and referto the femlrplne pronoun.
2:04 The Company agrees to deduct once per month from the wages payable to Bach seniority employee an amount equivalent to the Union dues as may be specified in writing by the Ontario Joint Council, and to remit such deductions to the Financial Secretary of the Ontario Joint Council of the International Union prior to the end of the month in which the deduction is made.
6
The first deduction win oe made ttom tne wages payable to each employee after the completion of the first sixty (60) calendar days of his probationary period. This deduction, which will be credited by the Union as the employee's Union Initiation Fee, Will be remitted to the Joint Council at the same time as fhe first regular monthly dues.
Regular monthly deductions will commence In the first calendar month following completion of the probationary period.
Should an employee be terminated for any reason prior to the completion of his probatlorary period, any deduction made under this section shall be returned to the
employee.
2:05 The Company shall, at the time of making the said remittance, supply a statement showing the name of each employee from whose pay such deduction has been made. A copy of this statement will be left in the
Union's plant mailbox.
ARTICLE III EXCLUSIONS
3:01 The term ‘employee’ as used in this agreement includes all employees of the Company with the exception of foreman, persons aoove the rank of foreman, office staff, guards, technicians, technical staff and
field service staff.
ARTICLE IV
RESERVATIONOF COMPANY RIGHTS
4:01 The Union acknowledges that it is the right of
the Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline anp efficiency.
(b)	Hire, promote, demote, transfer, suspend, discipline, or discharge for proper cause, any employee subject to the right of the employee to submit a grievance.
(c)	Operate and manage ill business In all respects in accordance with its obligations and to make and alter, from time to time, rules and regulations con-sistentwlth the provisions of the Agreement
(d)	Determine the number and location of plants, the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, types and locations of machines and tools to be used, process of manufacturing and designing of Its products, and the control of materials and paits to be incorporated in the products produced.
4:02 Employees outside of the bargaining unit shall not perform the physical or manual work which is normally performed by employees In the bargaining unit, except where such work is for the purpose of Instruction, inspection, investigation, experimentation or development.
4:03 The Union recogrizes the Company practice of having outside contractors perform work in or about the plant. The Company will, however, maintain Its policy of not using outside contractors to replace bargaining unit employees unless it is deemed by the Company to be essenilal.
4:04 The above functions shall be exercised in a manner consistent with and subject to the other provisions of the Agreement
ARTICLE V
NONDISCRIMINATION and CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
Nondiscrimination
5:01 There shall be na discrimination against any employee for reason of age, race, creed, colour, sex, marital status, handicap as defined in the Ontario Human Rights Code as amended from time to time, or membership in any organization in accordance with the applicable laws of the Province of Ontario.
a
Conditions of Employment
5:02
(a)	Each and every employee Me tne responsibility to adhere to all plant safety rules as a condition of employment.
(b)	Each and every employee is a responsibility to attend work on a regular basis as a condition of continued employment.
(o)	After a period of twelve (12) calendar months from the last date disciplinary action was issued for attendance problems and where the employee has corrected his attendance, all such references to the disciplinary action taken will be expunged from the employee’s record.
ARTICLE VI ADDRESSES
6:01 The following addresses Will De used for mailing of correspondencebetweenthe parties:
To the Company:
Owens Coming,
P.O. Box3603,
Guelph, Ontario,
N1H6P6
To the Union:
Amalgamated Clothingand Textile Workers Union,
15 Gervals Drive,
Suite 700,
Don Mills, Ontario M3C 1Y8
ARTICLE VII UNION ACTIVITIES
7:01 Members of the LPion shall not, on Company time, conduct Union activities, except as expressly provided in this Agreement, nor shall Union meetings of any kind be held at any time on Company premises without the consent of the Compass
7:02 Union bulletins anD notices, when approved by the Company, may be posted on bulletin boards provided by the Company.
7:03 The Union shall not distribute or present pamphlets, circulars, or petitions, on Company premises during working hours without the approval of the Human Resources representative.
ARTICLE VIII REPRESENTATION
8:01 The Company shffli recognize a UNION COMMITTEE consisting of fivd 15) members, who shall also serve as the Negotiatingcommittee. In the event of a lay-off the Committee Mfibers shall have top seniority provided there is work available which they are qualified and willing to do at the established rate of wages for such work. The Union shall notify the Company, in writing, of the names of the Ulion Committee members and of the names and effective date of changes in the Union committee.
8:02
(a)	The President of the Local Union shall upon his request and subject to the limitations of 8:02 (b) and (c), be placed by the Company on Day Schedule and be paid! he Day Schedule rate for his classification.
(b)	In order to be on Day Schedule or to be placed on Day Schedule, the President must occupy any one of the following classifications:
Forming Dept:	Day Binder Mixer
Day Bushina Heat Control Utility Cleaner
FabricationA	Any Classification
Fabrications:	Winder - Fabrication B
Milled Fiber Operation
Any Reinforcing Mat classification when these classifications are on 'M', 'S', or T shift schedules
FabricationC:	Any classification except Winder/
Checker
Maintenance:	Any classification except
Continuous Shift Mechanic and Continuous Shift Electrician
Materials Distribution:Storeskeepar
(c)	If the President requests to be placed on Day Schedule and he does not oecupy one of the classifications noted in (b) above, the granting of his request will be delayed until he transfers into one of the classifications noted in (b) through the provisions of Article XII and Article XVI.
8:03 The Company shall recognize a steward body to
be allocated to a department or departments as follows:
(a)	Forming Department: 1 Steward per shift. This steward will also represent the Forming Continuous Shift Maintenance employees.
(b)	Fabrication 'A' Department: I Steward per shift to a maximum of four in the department. These stewards will also represent the Fabrication 'A' Continuous Shift Maintenance employees.
(c)	Fabrication ‘B' Department! 1 steward per shift in Reinforcing Mat and 1 steward per shift in Roving. The Roving Steward wi" represent other
11
Fabrication B’ operations. These stewards will also represent the Fabrication ’E' Continuous Shift Maintenance employees.
(d)	Fabrication'C' Department: 1 Steward per shift.
(e)	Materials DistributionDebartment: 1 Steward.
(9 Maintenance Mechanl^l Department 1 Steward to represent Day Schedule employees.
(g) Maintenance Electrical Department 1 Steward to represent Electricians.
8:04 Where a new Deponent is put into operation or one of the currentDepartm®its is changed, the matter of changes in the Steward representation shall be the subject of discussion between the parties and changes made, provided agreement P reached.
8:05 In the event a Steward is transferred to a Department other than the Department he represents, he may continue as a Steward for the Department he is leaving for not more than thirty (30) calendar days or until a new Steward is selected, whichever Is shorter.
8:06 The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the Steward* and the Department each Steward represents, and °f the names and effective dates of any changes of Stewards.
8:07 Employees shall tru be eligible to serve as members of the Local Unldn Committee a as stewards until they have been employed for a period of one (1) year.
8:08 Committeemen and Stewards, as well as other employees, have their retlblar duties to perform on behalf of the Company anel shall not leave their regular duties or their work area wiflout first obtaining the permission of their foremen of supervisor. They shall also not enter another work are® without first obtaining the permission of that area's f°.Feman or supervisor. Upon completing their business fh another area, they shall check out of the area through the area's foreman or supervisor. The provisionsoi this section shall also apply to International Union Representatlves.
8:09 Committeemen or Std* ®rds shall not absent themselves from their regular ^Jies for unreasonable lengths of time to attend to (refers pertaining to the Agreement. In accordance wit!1 ,nis understanding, the Company shall compensate Con'2’itteemen or Stewards at their regular rates of pay, fdr B,ne spent during their working hours on business whle^fequlres their attention underthe provisions of the AgreelT,ent.
8:10 On the occasions when me Local Union Committee meets with the Company or Company representatives, for the purpose of negotiating a renewal of the Collective Agreement, the Company shall reimburse the Committee Members their normal earnings to a maximum of twelve (12) hours in any twenty-four hour period, should the deliberations between the parties require said members to be off work for a complete shift during the twenty-four hour period adjacent to the meeting.
It will be the Company's Intent to reimburse Committee Members for their normal earnings when they attend a negotiating meeting on the follow ng basis. The rule of thumb to be applied is to ensure that each member has a minimum period of 12 hours rest preceding and following each meeting, therefore any regular scheduled hours of work falling in this time frame vill be reimbursed.
Further, in the event the negotiating schedule is such that the Committee Member would attend meetings on all of his regular days of rest, trie Company will reimburse him for the first scheduled shift after these meetings. This only applies to Continuous Shift Committee Members.
8:11 At any meeting between the Company and the Local Union Committee, such committee shall be entitled to have present a representative or representatives of the Ontario Joint Council.
8:12 If an employee is calldti into any office for the purpose of formal discipline, o* for a personal or fact rinding discussion that may lead directly to discipline, the employee may request a Union Committee member, preferably a Union Steward, r*rtH e,,ch request will be granted.
13
(a)	The employee will be informed of the puroose of such discussion, including the possibility of subsequent disciplinary action.
(b)	If the employee declines such representation the employee must confirm his decision in writing.
8:13 A warning letter will be delivered to the employee concerned white at work under normal circumstances. The Company, however, may direct a warning letter to the employee's residence If circumstances so warrant.
ARTICLE IX
GRIEVANCE; rriOCEDURE
9:01 It is the desire o f thfe parties that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible. If an employee has any complaint or question he wishes to discuss with the Company, he shall first take it up with his immediate Foreman who will attempt to solve the problem. It Is understood •'at the Foreman's solution shall not be considered to be precedent setting.
9:02 It shall be optional to the Company to decline to consider any grievance, thfe alleged circumstance oi which occurred more than fourteen (14) calendar days (excluding recognizedholldays and vacations) prior to Its presentation.
9:03 The following grievance procedure steps shall apply. For the purpose of IWs Article the term "working day" is defined as a day on which all parties concerned are scheduledto work.
Step 1: An employee whd believes he has a grievance shall first present it to his .Steward, in writing, on the forms supplied by the LPon. The Steward and the Grlevor shall present thd 9rlevance to the Grlevor's Foreman.
Within three (3) working lays after the date the grievance was received, the Department Manager or his designate shall hold a meeting with the Foreman, the Grievor and his Steward. Within three (3) working days
14
after the date of the hearing, the Department Manager or his designate shall give his decision in writing.
Step 2: It the decision of the Oepanment Manager or his designate Is not satisfactory, an appeal may be lodged by the Union Committee with the Human Resources Manager or his designate within five (5) working days afterthe date the decision was received.
Within ten (10) working days affer the date the appeal was received, the Human Resources Manager or his designate shall arrange a meet frig date to discuss the grievance between Management representatives, the Union Committee and the employee's Steward. Within live (5) working days after the date of the meeting, the Company shall give its decision in writing.
Step 3: Ifthe Company's decision is not satisfactory, the Union may, by written notice wiinln thirty (30) calendar days after the date the Company's decision was received, advise the Company oi Its Intent to proceed tc arbitration. In said written notice, the Union shall propose its nominees to act as sole arbitrator to hear the grievance.
Should the Union's nominees be unacceptable, the Company shall propose alternate names. Ifthe parties cannot agree on the selection o an arbitrator within fifteen (15) calendar days after the date the Union's written notice was received, either party may request the Ontario Minister of Labour to appoint one. The decision of the arbitrator shaflbe final and binding on both parties.
9:04 The time limits specified in the foregoing steps of the grievance procedure may be extended by mutua agreement using the forms provided for this purpose.
9:05 No grievance may be sixmitted to an arbitrator (other than a policy grievance oi a grievance alleging improper discharge) which has no been properly carried through all previous stages of the grievance procedure, and no person may be appointed as an arbitrator whc has taken pari in an attempt to settle the grievance. The expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared lolntlv bv the Company and the Union.
15
(a)	A discharged employee ouall be allowed to confer with a Committee member before leaving Company premises and he may present a grievance, in writing, to his Committeeman. The Committeeman may then or within five (S) calendar days after the day of discharge (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday, recognized holidays or vacations) present such grievance to the Human Resources Manager or his designate. The grievance shall then be processed In accordance with the procedire outlined in Step 2 of the grievance procedure except that Management shall give its decision in writng within three (3) calendar days (exclusive tf Saturday, Sunday, recognized holidays or vacations) after the day the meeting was held to discuss the emoloyee's discharge.
{ill) By any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
S:10 Except as provided in section 9:04, any grlev ance not answered within the time limits defined In this Article shall be considered settled In favour of th< Grlevor or withdrawn by the Union.
ARTICLE X MEETINGS
10:01 The NegotiatingComm itee shall meet with the Company, as provided in Article 300C|||for the purpose of negotiating amendments to or modifications of any provisionof the Agreement.
10:02 The Union Committee shall meet with the Company on matters concerning the administration of the Agreement, and to negotiate amendments to, or modifications of any provision of the agreement. Any amendments or modifications will be suitably posted for 30 calendar days.
10:03 The Union Committee snail be entitled to have a representative or representatives of the International Union present at any meeting with the Company.
10:04 Employees at one plant location shall not attend Union Committee - Company meetings at another plant location either as an International Union representative or in any other capacity.
10:05 Meetings between the parties shall be held when mutually agreed upon The party requesting the meeting shall supply the other party with an agenda, list ing the matters to be discussed, at least forty-eight (46; hours priorto the day on which the meeting is requested.
ARTICLE XI SENIORITY
11:01 During the first one hundred and twenty (120) calendar days of employment, an employee shall be
17
(iii)	Fabrication B Department - to include classifications,
Reinforcing Mat Machine Operator Roll-Up Operator-Reinforcing Mat Service Attendant-Fabrication Winder-Fabrication B Creel Operator-Reinforcing Mat Inspector-Reinforcing Mat Slitter
Milled Fiber Operator Fabrication'B' Utilfy Cleaner
(iv)	Fabrication C Department • to include classifications,
Mixer
Packer-Textiles Winder Checker Twist and Ply Opti aiui Splicer-Fabrication C Creel Operator Set-up
Miscellaneous Textile Operator Multiple Winder Operator Production Operator*
Machine Cleaner*
Bobbin Reconditioner*
Sweeper"
(v)	Maintenance Department • to include classifications,
Maintenance Electrician
Maintenance Mechanic
Carpenter-Painter
Tool Crib Attendant
Maintenance Utility
Material Handler-Batch House
Janitor
General Labour1
20
(vi)	Materials Distribution Department • to include classification,
Storeskeeper
The Job Classifications indicated by an asterisk (*) are considered as not requiring training.
(b)	An employee selected by the Company to participate in a Maintenance Mechanic or Electrician Apprenticeship program shall acquire and commence classification seniority within the Maintenance Department on the date he begins the program.
A Maintenance Department employee who is affected by a reduction in the ^rk force may exercise his seniority (as defined if! 11:01 above) in accordance with Article XIII of the Agreement.
11:06
(a)	The Company will endeavor to advise the local Union at least 3 months In advance of any major technological change.
(b)	The allocation of new classmcations to existing Departments or to new Departments shall be based on operational relationships. If the Local Union considers the operational relationships inappropriate, this matter may be the subject of a grievance to be submitted at the final step of the Grievance Procedure.
11:07 Copies of Seniority Lists shall be revised and posted in a suitable place every three (3) months. Copies of all Seniority Lists shall be provided to Union Committee members and the International Union office.
11:08 Temporary changes or adjustments of the seniority provisions of the Agreement may be required during shutdowns occasioned by ether major repairs (not referred to in 11:09). In these instances any proposed changes shall be discussed between the Company and the Union and be subject to their agreement.
11:09 The parties agree that during shutdowns occasioned by furnace rebuilds repalrs/modifications,
21
the following temporary changes to seniority provisions
are necessary and desirable:
(a)	Employees on the Seniority Lists affected by the shutdown will be entltled to exercise their rights under 13:01 (a), (b), <c), and (d).
(b)	Having completed 1l:OS(a), the employees Identified for temporary layoff will be utilized as a rebuild/repalr/modificailon crew, as required by the Company, and shall retain seniority on their Individual seniority lists during the period ol rebuild/repair/modification. Employees retained must be able to perform the work required.
(c)	Employees utilized in 11.09(b) shall retain the basic hourly rate of pay of their regular Job classification during the period of rebuild/repair/modification.
(d)	(i) Employees utilized in 11:09(b) shallwork during
the required period on an appropriate shin schedule and be paid any shift premiums and weekend continuous shift premiums which may be applicable.
(II) Employees Identified rn 11:09(0) who are not required for a rebJId/repalr/modiflcation crew, or those whose rebuild/repair/modification work has been completed, shall be placed on temporary layoff until the rebuild/repair/modification work has been fully completed and production resumed. The temporary layoffs will be In accordance with 11:09(e) time limits.
exceed twenty one (21) calendar days, the following excepted:
(!) Thirty five (35) calendar days for a twenty (20) bushing furnace abnormal rebulld/modlflcatlon.
(li) Forty two (42) cafe-ur days for greater than a twenty (20) bushing furnace normal rebuild.
(iii)	Forty nine (49) calendar days for greater than a twenty (20) bushing furnace abnormal rebuild/repalr/modl (cation.
22
(9 (i) Employees who exercise their rights under 13:01 (a), (b), (c), and (d) (as outlined in 11109(a) above) shall return to their previous
classification and shift (providing a labour
adjustment associated with a product mix change was not announced prior to the shutdown) at the end of the shutdown in a manner that providesfor maximum efficiency.
(ii)	During the period of temporary layoff, the employees affected shall retain seniority on their individual seniority list and be recalled to their former job classifications and shift (providing a labour adjustment associated with a product mix change was net announced prior to the shutdown) In a manner that provides maximum efficiency for return to normal production. All benefits for which an employee is eligible shall be maintained during the period of temporary layoff except Weekly Indemnity.
(g) Upon request, certain employees may be allowed to take all or a portion o< their annual vacation entitlement (in units of one (1) week periods only) during the period of the reouild/repair/modificatlon. The Company reserves the right to refuse or restrict this privilege to any employee or group of employees whose absence could, in tie Company's opinion, impair general efficiency.
11:10
(a)	The names of student employees, hired cn a temporary basis, shall be placed on a separate Seniority List to be attached to the Plant Seniority Lists.
(b)	In the event of a reduction in the work force as described in Article XIII of the Agreement, student employees whose names appear on the separate student Seniority List will bs terminated before any other employee is displaced.
(c)	On completion of their assignments, students will be terminated. However, a student employee may request that he be retained in employment, and if
23
employment Is granted by the Company his seniority will be back-dated to nis most recent hiring date and his name will be placed on the Seniority List for the Departmentinwhichheisretained.Attnesame rime he will become eligible to participate in the Plans enumerated in Anr'es XXX anaXXXI of this
Agreement
(d)	The experience acquired while employed as a student shall not be conslde red in assessing eligibility for transfers, promotions lob postings and/or reduction In the workforce.
11:11 It is the Company's intention In any given year to employ students from April 15th to September 15th, plus the two week period which includes both Christmas and New Years Day.
ARTICLE XII
TRANSFERS AND PROMOTIONS
Where there Is a slmultaneou* requirement to implement Article Xll-Transfers and Promotions, and Article XIII -Reduction in Work Force, all labour moves required under Article XII will be planned before Article XIII is put Into effect
12:00 The experience of remred employees acquired while In the previous employ of the Company shall not be considered In assessing their eligibility for Transfers,
Promotions, or Job Postings.
12:01 A Job Opportunity List (JOL) will be maintained by the HumanResourqes Department
(a)	An employee with seniority may record in writing, classifications within his own department to which he wishes to transfer and/or a shift transfer within his own classification should a vacancy occur. If the Company's operation would be adversely affected, the request 1or shift transfer may be denied.
(b)	An employee with a least 2 years seniority may record In writing, classifications outside his own department to which he wishes to transfer provided:
24
i) there is not a more senior non-restricted employee on layoff at the time.
li) has not axordaed t JOL move to another department within the last six months. This does not apply if an employee was subsequently displaced from a Seniority List through the application of Article XHl. Reduction in V\fork Force.
Employees are encouraged to record only those classifications to vhich they would transfer if a vacancy occurred.
It is the individuals' ro^unslbility to place his name on the JOL, and such name will be retained on the list for twelve (12) months.
Only those names on tne JOL will be considered for transfer.
When an employee is wnuucted either by telephone or in person regarding such a transfer, he will be given up to 2t hours to advise re his dedsionto transfer.
12:02 In dealing with promotions, upgradings, or the
transfer of employees within a Department, the following
proceduresshall apply:
(a)	Employees having their names on the JOL for shift transfer within his classification shall be selected first to fill the opening in order of seniority prior to the application of subsections (b), (c) and/or (d)
(b)	For all classifications except Furnace Operator, Binder Mixer, and Batch House Operator.
(i)	Employees on the JOL within the department with sufficient experience will be selected first to fill the vacancy in order of seniority, then
(II) Employees outside the department with sufficient experience and employees within the department who have related experience applicable to the vacancy and who have the necessary qualifications, ability and physical
25
fitness to periormr me work required, will be selected to fill the vacancy in order of seniority, then
(ill) All other employees m order of seniority, provided they have the necessary qualifications, ability and physical fitness to perform the work required will be selected to fill the vacancy, then
(iv)	Other means Including hiring.
(c)	Tor transfers to Furnace Operator, Binder Mixer, or
Batch House Operator, the following procedures
shall apply:
(i) Employees on the JOL within the department with sufficient experience who have not refused a relief assignment to these classifications within the previous twelve (12) months shall be selected first to Dll the openings in order of seniority.
An employee wH® previously refused a relief assignment as described above, shall be exempted from th® above restriction, effective on the date he acknowledges in writing to the Company his acc®btance rf an offer of a subsequent asslgnm®Rt. A refusal for the ‘current vacation year will not restrict the employee for a similar asslgnment in subsequent vacation year.
No restriction shall be Im posed if an employee refused a relief assignment to accept anothei relief assignment
(II) If a sufficient num er of employees is not available for the ope Ings to be filled through the application of sub ectlon il), then other employees on the JOL wi in the deparimentwith sufficient experience shall be selected to fill the openings i n order seniority.
(Iii) Notwithstanding the previous references Ir 12:01 re only co tiering names on the JOL
26
employees outside the Department with sufficient experience may be solicited to fill the openings In order of seniority using the same criteria as in 12:02 (c) (i) and (ii).
(iv) If a sufficient number of employees Is not available for the openings tD be filled through the application of subsections (i), (ii) and (iii), then other employees on the JOL with direct or related experience applicable to the openings, shall be selected on a seniooty basis provided they have the necessary qualifications, ability and physical fitness to perform the work required.
(d)	(I) When possible, the JdL will be used to offer
vacation relief assignments within a department after employees with sufficient experience on the shift requiring the relief have been canvassed.
(II) Only employees within the department requiring the vacation relief will be considered for relief assignments, the classifications of Furnace Operator, Binder Mixer and Batch House Operator except9d (ie. may solicit outside department for employees with sufficient experience).
(iii)	If the JOL is used, and Ihe senior employee on the JOL who requests the relief assignments Is on another shift, he mar transfer shifts, only if an employee on the shir requiring the relief and In the same classification as the potential relief employee, volunteers to transfer shifts.
(iv)	No restriction shall be imposed if an employee refused to accept an assianment that required a shift transfer.
(e)	An employee will normally only be allowed to perform vacation relief assignments for one classification.
12:03 Openings which cannoi oe filled through the application of sections 12:01 and 12:02 may be filled by other means, including hiring.
27
(d)	If the restricted employ se cannot be placed through the application of this section, then he shall be placed on the Inactive Seniority List (provided he is not receiving wages rom other employment or refuses rehabilitative training as offered by the Workers' Compensation Board), and the Company shall advise him of ant/ future openings which he could perform.
(e)	An employee having at least three (3) years' seniority who cannot be ass ned to another job through the application of sub-sections (a), (b), or (c), and who is ineligible for the Inactive Seniority List, may be placed on lay-off.
12:07
(a)	An employee temporarily assigned to another job (including assignment due to a temporary disability covered by Worker's Compensation) shall receive the rate of the Job to which he is transferred or the rate of the job from which he is moved, whichever is the higher.
A temporary assignment shall not exceed forty (40) calendar days (excluding vacations and recognized holidays) unless extended by mutual agreement between the parties.
(b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-section (a), an employee, if transferred for any of the following reasons, shall receive the current rate of pay for the job to which he Is transferred:
(I) Transferred at his own request.
(li) Transferred in lieu of lay-off.
(Hi) Transferred on a doctor's recommendation,
12:08 Should an opening occur on a shift, day schedule employees will be given first consideration in order of seniority, provided the efficiency of the operation Is not adversely affected.
12:09 An employee transfened to a position outside of the Bargaining Unit shall accumulate seniority for
30
a period of six (6) months. It^e is returned to the Bargaining Unit by the CompanH due to a reduction of work, or other reasons, within tf>et period, he shall be returnedto his former ciasslficatlon providedhis seniority so allows and he pays Union Dues retroactive to the date he left the Bargaining Unit.
Such an employee shall lose all seniority rights after the expiration of the six month period
12:10
(a)	An employee off work due lo sick leave, leave of absence, Worker’s Compensation, or vacation shall be returned to his former classification upon his return to work provided he can continue to perform the work required, or he may exercise a move to another classification which he had previously requested on the JOL and far which he would have been selected had he been at work.
The above notwithstanding, any employee absent from work due to sickness and/or accident for a period in excess of six (6) months, or when it is known to the Company tha the employee will be absent for a period in excess of six (6) months shall have his seniority transferred from his Departmental Seniority Ust to the Inactive Seniority List in accordance with the provisions of 2:06(d).
(b)	Upon the return to work o an employee whose name is on the Inactive Seniority Ust, the following procedureshall apply:
(i)	Provided the employee returns to work within three (3) years he shall be entitled to displace the most Junior employee wtthin Ns former classification provided his seniority so allows and he Is physically able to perform the work required.
(ii)	If the employee returns aner a three (3) year absence, then he shall be entitled to displace the mostjunior employee within his former classification provided Ns seniority so allows and he can continueto perform the work required.
31
(iii)	If the employes canwl be placed through the application of sub-sections (l) and (II), then the employee shaN be entitled to displace the most Junior employee In his former Department provided his seniority so allows and he is physically able to perform the work required.
(iv)	If the employee cannot be placed through the application of sub-sections (i), (li), or (III), then he shall fill an existing Plant vacancy provided he Is physically able to perform the work
required.
(v)	If the employee cannot be placed through the application of sub-sections (I), (II), (III), or (Iv), then the employee shall be entitled to displace the most juniofl employee In the Plant (Maintenanceskilled classifications excepted), provided his seniority so allows and he is physically able to perform the work required.
(c)	The seniority of the employee who accepts an assignment to relieve another employee who Is off work due to sick leave or leave of absence or to relieve employees who are on vacation, shall not be transferred, and he shall be returned to his former classification upon completion of the assignment.
(d)	The provisions of thia section are not applicable when the employees referred to in sub-sections (a),
(b), and (c) above are affected by a lay-off or a reduction in the work force during the period.
12:11 Copies of JOL trailer forms will be deposited inthe Union supplied mailbox.
12:12 Copies of temporary transfer forms for sickness relief, the duration of which is expected to exceed fifteen (15) calendar days, will be deposited in the Union supplied mailbox.
12:13 The following proceoures will be followed In filling short-term assignments In the Fabrication Departments and from the Fabrication Departments to
Forming.
1. If a particular classification requires additional labour, and this need can be accommodated among the regularly scheduled non-overtime employees from any other classification, volunteers must be solicited among the employees who can perform the work required.
be re-assigned to the job.
3.	If the requirement cannot oe filled in the above manner, overtime will be solicited in accordance with practice and In compliance with the Collective Agreement.
4.	If the most junior trained employee is reassigned to another classification, for more than half his regular shifts In any given month, and there is a more junior untrained employee on the shift, the Company will provide training to the most junior untrained employee, or a more senlon volunteer on the shift, to accommodate the requirement. If the requirement is in the Forming Department, the training will be as an End Finder or Winner Operator only.
5.	Overtime will not be planned for any classification with the pre-conceived intenlof transferring employee^) to temporary assignments elsewhere.
6.	If the requirement cannon oe accommodated through the utilization of 1, £, or 3, above, trained employees outside the classification will be solicited.
7.	The Company assures the Union cf its intent to extend every effort to ensure compliance with this procedure.
12:15 A Millwright Opportunity List (MOL) will be maintained by Maintenance Supervision, to allow Maintenance Mechanics to record In writing, specific Job assignments, within the Maintenance Mechanical Classification to which he seriously wishes to transfer should a vacancy occur and Tor which he has the requirements listed below. It is the individual employee's
33
responsibility to place Ns name on the MOL. Only those
names on the MOL will be considered for transfer.
An employee's name will remain on the MOL until:
1} The employee transfers to a new assignment, at which point he will be unable to place his name back on the MOL for a period of 6 months.
2)	The employee refuses to transfer after he has accepted the assignment for which he had previously listed his name In this Instance, he will be unable to place his name on the MOL for a period of six months. This resfrlctlon Is not applicable, If an employee accepts another assignment prior to being placed In an assignment that he had previously accepted.
3)	The employee is no longer employed by the Company.
In dealing with the transfer of the employees to specific job assignments, the following criteria will apply:
1) Physical ability; 2) Past demonstrated skills; 3) Seniority In the Maintenance Department.
If the vacancy cannot be filled through the MOL, continuous shift vacancies will be filled by the most junior E®hift employee, E shift vacancies will be filled “V assigning one of the junior employees from v>fe bottom 1/3 of the E shift senionty list, the selection of that employee will take Into consideration, the possible effects of shift relief assignments and the vacancy job requirements.
Maintenance Supervision shall be responsible for maintaining a complete list of current job assignmentpositions. A copy of the list shall be available for scrutiny of all Maintenance Mechanics.
Job assignments for the MOL may include: Binder area, Batch House, Furnace Hall & Ovens, Applicators Forming Floater, Tire Cord,
34
Roving, Services, Macftne Shop, Fabrication Floater, Mat Shifts A-B-C-D, Forming Shifts A-B-C-D, Fabrication Shifts S-T, Alloy,
Alloy/Floator.
All present positions will be retained by the present employees, with future opportunities being processed by the MOL procedures listed.
ARTICLE XII
REDUCTION IN WORK FORCE
13:01 When circumstances require a reduction in the number of employees within a Department, the following procedureshall apply:
(a) (i) An employee with the least amount ol seniority in the classification affected shall displace the most junior employee in another classification within the same Seniority List, provided his seniority so allows and he can continue to perform the work required.
(U) If the reduction results in the classification changing from Continuous Shift to a nonContinuous Shift, then senior employees being retained In the classification may, in order of seniority, be allowed to exercise any 'bump' that the junior employeB(s) could have exercised under 13:01 (a) (i) or 13:01 (d), provided the senior employee is capable of continuing to perform the work required.
(Hi) Employees who are considered to be trained End Finders will be allowed to displace more junior End Finders in a reduction of the work force regardless of whether or not they are trained Winders.
it is acknowledged by the parties that Winder relief must also be accommodated by End Finders, and as is the practice with Production Operators, an End Finder who cannot function satisfactorily as a relief Winder after the normal period <f training, will be removed from the End Finder classification.
35
The proceeding paragraph also applies to Article 12 • Transfers and Promotions
(b)	An employee so dispiacea shall in turn displace the most junior employee in another classification within the same Seniority Ust, provided his seniority so allows and he can continue to perform the work
required.
(c)	Notwithstanding (a) and (b) above, an employee displaced from a day Job ( E* shift) through the provisions of this Article, shall have the following
options:
To displace the most junior employee on any Seniority List on a day job (“ E shift) not requiring training (*) provided his seniorityso allows.
OR
To displace the most junior employee in any classification on any Seniority List (Maintenance skilled classifications excepted), provided his seniority so allows and he can continue to perform the work
required.
(d)	An employee displaced from a Departmental Seniority List, having previously exhausted all possible options within his own Seniority List as detailed In (a) and (b) of this section, shall be entitled to displace the most Junior employee in any classification on any Seniority List (Maintenance skilled classifications excepted), provided his seniority so allows and he can continue to perform the work required. If more than one shift schedule Is in effect In the classification, said employee may select his schedule provided his seniority so allows.
(e)	An employee displaced from a Departmental Seniority List, having previously exhausted all possible options as detailed in (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section shall be entitled to displace the most junlsr employee in any of the Seniority Lists (Maintenance skilled classifications excepted) provided his seniority so allows and he has the physical fitness to perform the work required and shall be trained to perform such work.
36
(f)	An envtoyee entering another Department through the provisions of this Article, shall nave his seniority transferred as of the date of the transfer,
(g)	An employee displaced rom his Department through the application dMhis Article, shall not translerto another Department underthe provisions of Article Xll-Transfers and Promotions while a more senior non-restrictedenrployee is on lay-off.
13:02 In the event a reduction of work results in a layoff, probationary employees shall be the first to be laid off.
13.-03	Employees laid off shall for the purpose of
recall, be provided with a form by the Human Resources Department on which they shall indicate the Jobs they can reasonably perform. Employees who have Indicated the Jobs they can reasonably perform, on a form provided by the Human Resources Department, shall under certain circumstances be allowed to place themselves on lay-off.
13:04 In the event of lay-off for reasons other than those listed in Article XIX of the A greement section 19:01
(a), (b), (c), and (d), the Company shall give at least seven (7) calendar days notice to the employees affected.
13:05 Whenever two (2) Job classifications are combined into a single new classification, any employee who has been classified in either job during the previous five (5) years shall be allowed to displace a more Junior employee in the new classification if he is affected by a reduction in the work force.
13:06 On occasions that scheduled maintenance of electrical equipment necessitates a power outage, employees affected shall be laid off for a period not In excess of one-half of their regular shift and shall not be eligible to displace other employees underthe provisions of this Article.
13:07 In the event of a toial plant closure, the Company agrees to pay a severance payment for all employees (except those on the Inactive Seniority List] at tne rate of one (1) weeks regular pay per year of service to a maximum <f twenty-six (26) weeks of pay.
37
Employees with more than twenty-six (26) years of service shall receive an addilonal one-half (1/2) weeks pay for each year of service beyond twenty-six (26) (partial yeans of service will Db included in the calculation of total severance pay).
ARTICLE XIV DISCONTINUED JOBS
14:01 When a departm?nt or operation ceases to function permanently and jpbs are discontinued, any employee affected, If his seniority so allows, shall be entitled to bump to anothe.r iob provided he has had previous experience on the jnb and is physically able to continuethework required.
14:02	In the event an employee cannot be placed on
a job under the terms of ssDtlon 14:01, the employee shall be entitled to displace tne most Junior employee in any of the Seniority Lists (Maintenance skilled classifications excepted) and shall be trained to perform the work required.
14:03 The question of wnlch Seniority List the employee shall be entitled td displace In, shall be subject to discussion between the Company and the Union Committee, giving the employee preference If practicable. Falling mutual agreement in such instances, the most Junior employee of all Seniority Lists (Maintenance skilled classifications excepteld) shall be displaced.
ARTICLE XV REC LL
When recalling seniority employees from lay-off, they shall be recalled cn the basis of plant-wide seniority subject to the following rules:
16:01 An employee due lor recall having previously indicated the jobs he can reasonably perform, shall be notified when suitable openings occur, and according to his seniority shall be offered employment at the prevailing rate of wages for the position available. An employee who refuses an offer of employment In any of the Jobs he
38
had previously Indicated he couio reasonably perforr will automatically terminate his employment.
15:02	When it i S not posslbl Tto contact an employe
by telephone or by messenger, notice of recall snail b sent by registered mail to the st address recorded b the employee with the Human R sources Department
15:03 Employees notified retu.n to work shall report onthe date andtime specked Inthe notice.
15:04	An employee, when notified by registered ma
of recall from lay-off shall advise the Human Resource Department of his intention to re urn to work within thre (3) calendar days of receipt of such notice. His posltio< on the Seniority List shall be maintained for seven (7 calendar days (exclusive of recognized holidays an vacations) from the mailing ddte of the recall notice Should the employee not return to work at the expiry c the seven (7) calendar day pedod, his name shall b< deleted from the Seniority List urless he has furnished li writing an explanation satisfactory to the Company out lining why it was Impossible for hin to comply.
15:05 When required, a junior employee may bi recalled before a senior employee for training purposes The period of training will not exceed six (6) shift worked The llnlnn r.nmmlttes shall be notified il
advance of such recalls.
15:06	Notwithstanding the terms of Article XII, at
employee recalled from lay-off o a temporary assign ment will not be eligible to enter his name on the JOL
ARTICLE XVI JOB POSTING
16:01
(a)	Notice of vacancies shall be posted on designator Bulletin Boardsforthe following occupations:
Day ScheduleOccupations New Occupations.
Skilled Maintenance Onenpations Includin Apprentices.
All Shipping and Stores Occupations.
39
(I)	Notice of such vowu,Uaa shall be postedfrom 12:00 noon to 12:00 noon for seven (7) calendar days.
(II)	Additionally, a Jo& Posting List (JPL) will be maintained by the Human Resources Department to allow employees to record in writing those occupations to which they wish to transfer should a vacancy occur.
It Is the Individual's responsibility to place his name on the JPU and such names will be retained on this list for twelve (12) months.
(b)	Temporary requirements for sickness or vacation relief in E' shift classifications not requiringtraining shall not be posted.
Temporary Job Postings for the purpose of sickness or vacation relief iti al other “ E shift classifications shall be restricted to.
(I)	Shift employees Ir the department where the requirement occurs
(II)	If the vacancy is not filled by the application of 0) above, applications will be considered from shift employees In Dther departments, and from “E" shift employees In classifications not requiring training.
16:02 Notwithstanding^ provisions of Article XII,
applicants shall be selectedl to fill such vacancies under
the following step system:
(1)	Employees with sufficient experience shall be selected first to fill the openings in order of seniority.
(2)	If a sufficient number of employees Is not available for the openings to be filled through the application of step (1), employees shall be selected on a seniority oasis for training, provided they have the necessary qualifications, ability, and physical fitness to perform the work required.
(3)	In the event no svitable applications are available, the vacancy shall be filled by other means.
An
16:03
(a)	An employee selected for a job posted vacancy under the terms of this Aitlcle shall retain his seniority on his former Seniority List for a period of twelve (12) calendar days excluding absences, vacations, or recognized holidays.
(b)	The above notwithstanding, ■employee selected for a job posted vacancy for fth he is considered trained (excluding * jobs Aas not previously occupied) under the terms o tft Article shall retain his seniority on his former S Aity List for a period of three (3) working days Aluding absences, vacations, or recognized holi A.
16:04
(a)	When an employee is selected for a job posted vacancy, he shall be ineligible to apply for another posted vacancy for a period [of six (6) months from the date of acceptance.
(b)	An employee who accepts & job posted vacancy under this Article and who reverses his decision within the time limits specific d in 16:03 (a) and (b) will be restricted from appl; ing for further posted vacancies for a period of tfvee (3) months except for the following situations:
(I) He reverses his decislcfft prior to moving into the new position in order to exercise a JOL move.
(II) He reverses his decislorf prior to the transfer of his seniority for acceptatj|le medical reasons.
(ili) In the judgement of thepompany he is unable to satisfactorily perform fie job.
16:05 Notwithstanding the Provisions of section 16:04, an employee placed on a jib as a result of a posting who is subsequently moved f om this job due to the application of the provisions of Ar icle XIII, shall have the option to return to that Job If it i gain becomes vacant within a period of forty (40) cal ndar days (excluding vacations and recognized holiday ) from the date he was moved off that Job. Should the i mployee exercise this option, the vacancy shall not be ppsted.
16:06 An employee res tloned six (6) month period from this obligation should stances occur during the six
dieted by the above men! hall be considered released i iny of the following circum-6) month period.
(a)	The elimination of the operation or job.
(b)	The operation or job changes from a day schedule to a shift schedule.
(o) The employee is moved off the job due to the application of the provisions bf Article XIII.
16:07 The Company shbll not be obligated to post notice of any job the duratlor of which is less than seven (7) working days, unless extended by mutual agreement betweenthe parties.
16.08 The following procedure will be adopted In determining shift allocations for ail future openings in the Maintenance Classification.
1.
3A.
3B.
3C.
When an opening occ Plant and applications dance with Article XVI
rrs it will be posted in the will be accepted In accor-c I the Agreement.
If there Is no suocessMi applicant the opening will befilled by othermeani
The new Maintenance with the continuous sh pared to go on shifts period Is completed months after date of hlri.
I fechanlc will be familiarized ft routines and will be presoon as the familiarization lut not later than five (5)
ai
The new Electrician Will be familiarized with the continuous shift routine i and will be prepared to go on shifts as soon as t re familiarization period is completed but not latdr than twelve (12) months afterdate of hire.
The new Apprentice wit be trained on day shift (or other shifts as appropi iate) during which time he will be familiarized with the continuous shift routine. He will be prepared to go on shifts after the successful completion of ills final year of apprenticeship.
4?
4.
5.
These procedures will app circumstances, for exampl i sickness. An exceptional c
cussed with the Union and the familiarizationperlod
/ In all but exception! 11 vacation purposes c : 'cumstance witl be dis
ipon mutual egreomcr ■ be extended.
mar
When the Maintenance pentm is prepared for con tinuous shifts, a notice wil be posted from 12;0i noon to 12:00 noon for sev !n (7) calendar days ii the Maintenance Depart! font to allow presen employees in the appropriate classification to bit for the opening on day shift
6. The most senior applicant dbf the Continuous Shil incumbents) for the opening on day shift will go oi days and the new (most Junior qualified) employer will be placed on the shift vacated no later than thr week followingthe selection
7.
a.
The Union will be notified df the successful appll cant of this posting.
Should an opening occur orl a shift, the duration o which is known to be for me re than six (6) months day schedule employees wi I be given first consld eration in order of seniority i s per the MOL, provid ed the efficiency of the opa-minn is not adversely affected.
ARTICLE
WAGES, HOURS W WORK,
LUNCH AND REST PERIODS
17:01 Classification and wiage rates shown in Appendix "A" erf the Agreement, spall remain In effect for the duration of this Agreement sfiblect to the provision: of section 17:02.
17:02 The Company shall In establishment of new or changed and the subsequent revisions Union does not consider the may be lodged at Step 2 of the the Agreement. If this matter Is
ti
rat >
.	ap ><
his Jurisdiction shall be confined tn confirming the
orm the Union of the classifications of wort the Appendix. If thr proper, a grievance Grievance procedure Ir ealed to an arbitrator rate, oi
43
applying another rate whlchl would be an equitable rate based on the existing rate Structure for the various job classificationsshown In the Appendix.
17:03 For calculation qurposes, the working day shall commence at 7:00 a.m. The working week shall commence Sunday at 7:00 am.
17:04 The following are the regular hours of work and work schedules:
(a)	Day Schedule • ‘E Shift Forty (40) hours per week. Monday - Friday 7:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m.
Before an employee'sjnours of work are changed from E shift to M shift the Company will provide the Union with a letter Indigating:
(a)	the employee(s) 8 jjected will maintain contractual rights associated w Ith E shift.
(b) that should vac8 classifications, these v with the E shift provisl°Ps
Jcles occur in the affected be posted In accordance of Article XVI.
v'lll
(b)	One Shift Schedule-'f(i shift:
7:00 a.m. • 3:00 p.m. Monday- Friday
(c)	Two (2) Shift Swing Sc Monday • Friday 7:001 Monday - Friday 3:00 f Shifts will rotate each wi
ledule • 'F' and 'Q' Shifts: m. -3:00 p.m.
.m. -11:00 p.m. eek.
'wWvi
(d)	Tire Cord Alternate Ti Two (2) Shift Scheduls Tuesday-Thursday T. Friday 7:00 a.m. -3:00 Tuesday-Thursday 7: Shifts will rotate each
e Hour
'H1 and V Shifts:
JO a.m. -7:00 p.m. arJ p.m.
X) p.m. -7:00 a.m. week.
When a recognized Hpuaay falls on a normal day off, the day in lieu of the Holiday shall be taken on the 7:00 a.m. • 3:00 nlm shift on either the Friday
44
preceding the Holiday or lithe Friday following the Holiday.
(e)
Three (3) Shift Swing Schdiule - 'J', 'K'. 1' Shifts:
Monday - Friday 7:00 a.m. Monday - Friday 3:00 p.m. Sunday - Thursday 11:00 [
3:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m. m. - 7:00 am.
(Except during a start-up period, when the wort week on ‘L* Shift may end |t 7:00 a.m. Saturday.)
<0
The weekly shift rotation stall be from days (7-3) tc nights (11-7) to afternoons (3-11).
Continuous Shift Schedule
- 'A', 'B', 'C\ ‘D’ Shifts:
There shall be two (2) d lly shifts of twelve (12} hours each in every twenty-four (24) hour period at follows:
7:00 a.m. • 7:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. -7:00 am.
Continuous shift employs shall work three (3] consecutive day shifts foHtped by three (3) days o rest and three (3) conse^niVe night shifts follower by three (3) days of rest.
/n I) Continuous Shift Day Schedule • Reinforcing Ma ‘S' and T Shifts 7:00 am • 7:00 p.m.
Three (3) consecutive daw snitts, followed by three (3) days of rest.
il) Continuous Shift Night Schedule - Fabrication's Utility Cleaner'Q' and ‘R‘ Shifts 7:00 p.m. • 7:00 a.m.
Three (3) consecutive night shifts, followed by three (3) nights of rest
17:05 When an employeeTb transferred from one
continuousshiftto another con ee may request to work onl requiredbytne newshiftsched transfer.
nuous shift, the employ-the number of hours leinthe pay week of his
45
17:06 Normal lunch and I rest Deriods snail be as follows:
(a)
(b)
(c)
<d)
Day Schedule Employes i
A twenty (20) minute lun h period at regular pay. A ten (10) minute rest perio d at regular pay.
All other Non-Contlnuous A thirty (30) minute lunch Continuous Shift Schedu A thirty (30) minute lunch
Shift Schedule Employees period at regular pay.
e Employees period at regular pay.
Two (2) fifteen (16) minute rest periods at regutai pay.
The normal lunch period the day schedule shall bi > p.m., except In the Maipl Mat Departments where according to operating the employees shall be dose to the normal period
for en ployees assigned to from 12:00 noon to 12:20 itenance and Reinfordn( the lunch period may vary r tqulrements In which casr allowed a lunch period ai as practicable.
17:07 The Company reserves the right to modify or amend the above mentioned lunch periods to meet any of its production and/or main enance requirements and agrees that it shall not exercise this right in an aibitrary manner.
17:08 When an employed is required to work overtime for a period of three (3) riours or more, he shall be allowed a fifteen (15) minute rest period within the first hour of the overtime perioc, provided such overtime assignment necessitatesthatlthe employee remain continuously at work.
17:09 Two employees working on a continuous twelve (12) hour shift schedul >, in the same dassification and on the same shift set edule combination, may request to enter into a formal aareement to work straight days and nights.
The agreement approved tly the Human .Resources Department and signed by nil narties will identify the
time period and, for the purposd of vacations, reductions and temporary moves, they wfl revert to their original schedule.
ARTICLE Will OVERTIME
18:01 Overtime shall be paiu at the rate of one and one-haif times the basic classification rate for the work an employee is required to perform In excess of his normal number of hours per day, ol in excess of his normal number of hours per week.
Should an employeetransfer frdTI a non-continuousshift schedule to a continuous shift schedule he shall be paid overtimefor hoursworked inexLks of forty (40) hours in the week cf transfer.
18:02 An opportunity £ de hours in an employee's regular ments of fewer hours than an will be accumulated until regulr -reached, atwhichtime an
Ined as the number of shift Overtime 8sslgn-mployee's regular shift shift hours have been opportunity will be charged.
18:03 As far as practicable! opportunities for overtime will be distributed evenly wihln the same classification. Distribution lists will be posted monthly.
18:04 For non-schedulea excluding all twelve (12) hour employees in the same classlfic ed, following which relief may
employees within the Departmerf.
emergency overtime, hlft schedules, working tlon shall first be solicit->e obtained from other
18:05 Should an employee woik overtime and fail to report f|>i vious to, or subsequent to this shall forfeit his overtime pay unless he has a reason satisfactory to the Company.
i ccept an assignment to r his regular duties pre-ertime commitment, he the period he worked
18:06 Overtime distribution! will be in accordance with the spirit and provisions of tile following documents:
(a)	Company Bulletin No. 3 82 headed "Overtime Distribution"dated July 22
47
(b)
Company letter to Unlor 1982, with attached doc ji Distribution', and ‘General
President dated July 27, iments headed'Overtime Rules and Guidelines".
(c)
Company Bulletin No. 38/82 headed ‘Overtime Distribution’,dated July i 8,1982.
(d)
Company memo date “Revised Special Arr Distribution, Maintei Electricians”.
d May 6, 1987 headed angements - Overtime iance Mechanics and
ARTICbP XIX REPORTINGjftm WORK AND EMERGENCY CALL-IN
19:01 An employee wtfo has not been told in advance not to report to wort, shall be given work for at least one-half the shift for wt Ich he reported. If no woik is available he shall be pal I for one-half the shift for which he reported. This oblig itlon shall not prevail when the employee is prevented from working because of any of the following reasons:
(a)	A breakdown of machinery or equipment.
,h) A power shortage or fait ire of power supply.
) Any circumstance bqyond the control of the Company.
) An employee's neglect In keeping the Company advised of his current aqdress.
):02
An employee requested from his regular shift dt s paid a minimum of four hourly rate or time an I rate for the hours actually worked,
to report for work apart to an emergency Shan be (4) hours' pay at his basic one-half his basic hourly 1, whichever is the
) The above notwithstanding an employee requested to report for work apart from his regular shift, between the hours of 1 j :00 p.m. and 4.00 a.m. due to an emergency, shall pe paid a minimum of six (6)
4b
hours' pa/ at his basic hourlb rate, or time and one-half his basic hourly rate for the hours actually worked, whichever is the greyater.
(g) Overtime hours as a result 4f emergency situations
will not be considered as anpvertlme opportunity.
ARTICLE »K SHIFT PREMIUM SAND CONTINUOUS SHIFTPREMIUMS
20:01
(a)	A premiumofthirty-four (34)|C*hts per hour shall be paid to a non-continucus shift employee working from 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
s lift
;ems per hour shall be employee working
(b)	A premium of fifty-one (51) paid to a non-continuous i from 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m
(c)	A premium of fifty-one (51) bents per hour shall be paid to a continuous shift Employee working from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(d)	The applicable shift premiun tinuous shift employee fo Contract Agreed Holidays,S;
shall be paid to a con-all hours worked on turdays and Sundays.
20:02 A continuous shift pre times the basic classification rate regular hour worked on regular ci between 7:00 a.m. Saturday ai When a recognized holiday fal Sunday, this premium will be applicable premium specified ir 26:08.
nlum of one-half (1/2) shall be paid for each idntlnuous shift schedule d 7:00 a.m. Monday, s on a Saturday or a I aid In addition to the Article XXVI, Section
premiums and they continuous shift preml-........... c mployee'e basic classic imputing overtime pay
20:03 Shlfl _ urns shall not be Indudedin an ficatlon rate for the purpose of and pay for holidays not worked.
20:04 Continuous shift emplo n tinuous shift premium In accordapi shall also be paid the regular dance with section 20:01, but thl r compounded with any other prom
ees receiving the conice with section 20:02, premium in accor-premium shall not be um.
s rift
49
ART1C IXXI
NOTIFICATION IFABSENCE
21:01 An employee una le to report for work shall notify the Company before lie commencement of his regular shift on the first day I absence, and the estimated length <f absence if it is lor more than one shift. An employee who is absent fol more than one shift must notify the Company of his in* nt to return to work one full shift prior to the commence! ent of his scheduled starting time.
21:02	Such absence snail nol be excused unlessthe
employee has ajustifiablerefson
ARTICllE XXII ABSENCES
22:01 In the event an employee is absent or does not report for work on time, tne Foreman may arrange for a replacement If he considers It necessary.
22:02 An employee who accepts such a replacement assignment shall:
(a)	Have the option of sta ftg over for the balance of the shift, if such becom I necessary.
(b)	Be expected to remain In the job until the scheduled employee report tor work, or until another replacement arrang I for or called in by the Foreman reports for wo 1
22:03 An employee wh°| does not report to work as scheduled, shall be allowed bne-half (1/2) hour to repon to work or advise the Conll (any when he can report to work. Should an absent e|J (aloyee do neither of these within the one-half hour pen >d allowed, he shall lose his entitlement to work on tit I shift concerned and the Foreman may arrange repheement if he considers It necessary.
22:04 An employee who agrees to substitute for another employee through f Straight Time Switch, and this anangement is approved by tne Foreman, shall be paid any premium payment™ which the employee who
SO
was granted time off, was eligible. Overtime assignment hours, however, shall not be considered in any of these calculations.
tout
LEAVE OF ABMNCE 23:01 General
An employee may request in writing a leave of absence without pay for legitimate reasorIf a leave of absence is granted, seniority shall accum date. Leave of absence shall not be unreasonably with! eld. An employee who fails to return to work at the expi y of a leave of absence shall be considered to have volt ritarily quit unless he is able to give a reason satisfactory to the Company for his failure to returnto work. The sect itary of the Local Union shall receive a copy of all leaves bf absence.
23:02 Pregnancy
(a) The Company shall grant Six (6) months leave of absence, three months of which may be taken prior to the expected date of birtti to a pregnant employee upon written request.
<b) Upon receipt of a certiflcatb from a duly qualified medical practitioner, this leave of absence will be extended either before or aner the date of birth to a total maximum period of one) year.
23:03 Bereavement
Bereavement pay shall be limitecnto tne employee's regular number of hours per day atlhls basic classification rate, and shall be restricted to tfnse days on which the employeewould normaly be scheduled to work.
(a)
(b)
Upon the death of an employee's spouse, child, or step-child, bereavement pay will be paid for all hours lost in the five (5) consecutive day period following the date of death
(i) Upon the death of an employee's parent stepparent, guardian, brothc , sister, parerfWMaw, son-in-law, or daughte -in' law, bereavement pay will be paid for all hi urs lost In the three (3) consecutive day perloc foltowing the date or death for the purpose qf arranging for and/or attending the funeral.
st
If the employee dees not arrange for and/or attend the funeral, he will be paid for one (1) lost regularly sche iu:ed work day within the three (3) consecutive day period following the date of death.
(c)	Upon the death of ad brother-in-law, grandpa :i ment pay will be paid fo: ly scheduled shift to att<
employee's sister-in-law, :ent or grandchild, bereave-r the loss of one (1) regular-lend the funeral.
(d)	Should a member of aP Employee's family die while the employee is on roved compassionate leave of absence to visit the t family member, bereavement pay will be paid it accordance with the provisions of this clause.
23:04 International Unlorf Anent
On receipt cf a written reaiest from the Intemationdl Union, an employee who is selected or appointed by the International Union to eng; ige In special International! Union activities on a full-tirm basis (i.e., thirty (30) calendar days or more) shall be g anted a leave of absence In writing, without pay for a p iriod not to exceed one (1) year, (subject to extension m written application). Such employee shall accumul ite seniority during such absence if he returns to work at the expiration of the leave of absence. Any such request from the International Union shall be submitted to the Company ai least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the date the leave is to start.
23:05 IntemationalUnloJi Conventions/Conferences
The Company shall grant a leave of absence without pay to a delegated Local Union Member to attenc International Union convent ons and conferences, not to exoeed thirty (3Q) calendar r lays provided:
(a) The Com pany receive:
sufficient notice.
(b)	Not more than two (SO employees from a department are concerned.
(c)	The general efficiencyjof the Company's operations shallnot be adversely {affected.
23:06 Local Union Meetings
The Company shall grant a leavibf absence without pa
to Local Union Committee menpws for the purpose C
attending meetings called by thol-ocal Union provided:
(a)	The Company receives sufficient notice.
(b)	Not more than two (2) employees from a shift withii a department are concerned.
(c)	Not more than three <31 employees from a depart ment are concerned.
(d)	The general efficiency of thi Company's operation: shall not be adversely affected.
23:07 Union Business Upon written request from the Uocal Union Committee
the Company will pay members their norma) earnings while they of absence to attend approved
Council business is excluded fror i this arrangement
Upon presentation of an invoice} the Local Union shal reimburse the Company.
of the Bargaining Uni are on approved leavt Union business. Join
23:06 Court Appearances
(a) in the event an employee is unable to work his reg ular shift or shifts due to bel g called for and report ing for Jury duty, or due t > serving as a Crowr Witness, or subpoenaed as a witness in a dispute in which he Is not directly ivolved, the employee shall be paid the difference tetween the amount h< would have earned 1or worl Ing his regular shltt(s) and the amount he receives for performing suet duty.
(b)	In order to qualify for suih compensation, th< employee shall give forty-eight (48) hours piioi notice of such obligation (except in an emergency] and present proper evldenfce as to the duty performed.
23:09 Vacation Purposes
(a) Upon written request an employee who has completed ten years of service ipay be allowed up to <
53
maximum of two week! psy, on one occasion between the 10th anc employment, provided absence does not adve operations. Such leave outside the Prime Vacat u/visevtonslnn of hisful
leave of absence without i uring the five-year period 15th anniversary of his timing of such leave of sely affect the Company's of absence shall be taken on Period and be a contin-vacation entitlement.
tie
(b)
I
quent five-year period, leave of absence doe i Company's operations, be tsiken outside the Pri rv a continuous extension of
1 irovided the timing of such i not adversely affect the ! Such leave of absence shall e Vacation Period, and be ' his full vacalion entitie-
(c)	Employees affected by khut-down for vacation purposes who request a leave of absence under this section may be allowed to taka such leaves of absence as a continuous extension of the balance of their vacation entitlsmarts outside the Prime Vacation Period sublectjto the conditions outlined ir
<«fl
23:10
(a) Three (3) additional employees per vacation yea (restricledto a maxlmv t» of one (1) employee within a Departmental arT ’ one time) shall be allowet leaves of absence oV f and above the maximun allowed off in section* 28:02 and 28:04 of thli Agreement
(b)	Leaves of absence asloutlined In 23:10 (a) abov* may be taken at any Wma but are sub|ect to tm remaining provisions Ip subsections 23:09 (a) am (b) above.
94
23:11 H an employee, who hi of absence under section 23:09 decides not to take that leave, seniority within the remaining ti 23:09 (a) and (b) should he absence under the same section
s been granted a leave or 23:10, subsequently
t} shall not exercise his ne limits as defined in apply for a leave of is the original request
23:12 If an Individual emp!o)jei at work in a stressful situation ci ceptable behaviour, he must e; supervision and if it cannot be may leave the premises for the out pay or penalty. If, in the privilege (described in 23:12) employee(s) will be subject to dis
e feels that remaining lead to some unac-utolore the problem with asolved, the employee qalance of the shift with-mpany's opinion, this is being abused, the Mine.
:c uld I
C 3I
ARTICLE X$IV INJURY AND DISABILITY
24:01 An employee injured qn tne job shall be paid for the balance of his shift at his lasic classification rate. If as a result of such injury, the employee is sent home or to a hospital, transportation shall be supplied by the Company if necessary.
24:02 Should an employee sustain a major disability while in the employ of the Comnany, an exception may be made to the seniority provision of this Agreement in favour of such employee by agreement between the Company and the Union.
24:03 In the event there Is reason to believe an employee's Workers' Compensal on claim will be unduly delayed, upon request the empl yee will be allowed to simultaneously submit a Weekly idemnity daim, provided he signs a waiver form agree! ig to Immediately reimburse the Sun Life Assurance Canmany upon receipt of his WCB benefit cheque(s).
This special arrangementviUbe Subjecito cancellation if Sun Life or the Company encourvers difficulty in collecting from any employee.
55
ARTICLE XXV
SAFETY, HEALTH|AND SECURITY
25:01 The Company mukt make reasonable provision for the safety and health of employees during working hours. In addition, the (company must provide the Union Information It has knov ledge of In respect to existing or potential hazards of ct emlcals. The Union agrees to assist the Company in maintaining proper observation of all safety and health rules.
25:02 The parties agree to the establishment of a Safety and Health Committe i at least one-half of whom shall be members of the bai|gaining unit to be selected
by the Union.
25:03 The parties agree dealt with in accordance Current Year of Occupational
that work refusals will be ^rlth the provisions of the Health and Safety Act.
25:04 In the event the Cc at any time to inspect ar Company shall arrange for a time the locker is opened anc witness shall be a member preferably a Union Steward the Inspection. In the evei abnormal situation however,, right to have present any wl or notthe witness is a member of the
mpany deems it necessary, employee's locker, the witness to be present at the during the inspection. Said of the Bargaining Unit and is at work at the time of <£ an emergency or an the Company reserves the ijness regardless of whether '' Bargaining Unit
\ rho
i it
25:05
(a)	Safety footwear is mandatory for employees working in the Plant. The Company will reimburse employees up to a max num of one hundred twenty dollars ($120) per cor ract year, toward the purchase of safely footweaf.
(b)	Should an employed opt to purchase safety footwear from other tha r Company-designated suppliers, he must provide the original receipt of payment to be eligible for reimbursement.
25:06 Safety eye protection, which Includes side-
shields and brow protection,|s mandatory for employees
56
working in certain designated Companywill provide the necess employees, at no cost. Including
prescription safely lenses andfraJ£S.
TSas of the plant. The ry safety glasses to all ny employee requiring
26:01
ARTICLE XW RECOGNIZE DHOjJDAYS
(a)	The following days are designated as recognized holidays for whicn an emplwee shall receive payment in accordance with fhe provisions of this Article.
New Years Day National Heritage Day'
Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Floater
* In the event proclamation is not made, the third (3rd) Monday in February [hall be designated a holiday.
(b)	The date of the Floater Holiday shall be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union priorto January 31st of each Hear.
26:02 (a)
An employee shall receive dight (6) hours' pay at his basic classification rate, irovlded he has completed his Iasi regular schedi led shift preceding the holiday and his first regular icheduled shift following the holiday in accordanc > with the shift schedule, and he has also comple ed any overtime commitment adjacent to the holiday for which he has volunteered
57
(b) Subjectto the above fi 0 visions an employee working *H‘ and"P' shifts si all receive twelve (12) hours pay at his basic class ficatlon rate when a recognized holiday falls on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday,
26:03 Notwithstanding the provisions of section 26:02 an employee shall be considered eligible for holiday pay provided:
(a) He was not late in ex regular shift following satisfactory reason for fil
«ss of one hour on his first the holiday, and presents a ils lateness.
(b) He requested and received written permission from his Foreman to be ab: ent on either his fast regular scheduled shift preceding the holiday, or his first regular scheduled shlf following the holiday, or any portion of these time:, and returns to work at the expiry of the period fcjr which he had received per-missionto be absent
26:04 An employee wtjo accepts an assignment tc work on a holiday and fails jto report, shall not be paid foi the holiday unless he hasl a reason satisfactory to the Company,
26:05
(a) An employes normally scheduled to work on a holiday must complete his regular scheduled shift to be eligible fir holiday pay.
«
An employee who scheduled shift due pay on a pro-rated t quently provides pr^ attentionthatday, '
«)6nnot complete his regulai ' illness shall receive holidaj .sis. If the employee subse [fof that he received medica he (Shall receivefull holiday pay.
26:06 An employee assigned to the continuous shlf schedule who is normally i >n his days off shall be consid ered to be In continuous < imployment and shall be pair for the holiday in accordance with the provisions of this
Article.
58
26:07 Noiwimsianoing ine erovtsions of section 26:02, an employee who is absent on his last regular scheduled shift preceding the holiday, and/or his first regular scheduled shift following t te holiday, due to personal sickness supported by a n edical doctor's certificate, or because of lay-off, shall ri ceive holiday pay provided he works one complete shi : in the week In which the holiday occurs, or In the casi of a continuous shift employee, provided he works on complete shift within five (5) calendar days preceding <|r succeeding the holiday.
26:08
(a) An employee requiredto work on a holiday (except on Christmas Day) shall be paid at time and one-half his basicclassifi cation mfn
(b) An employee required to wdrk on Christmas Day shall be paid two (2) times 6is basic classification rate.
(c)
An employee required to shifts on any holiday (excep be paid two and one-half (S classification rate for the sei
cc 1
(d)	An employee required to w >rk two (2) complete shifts on Christmas Day st all be paid three (3) times his basic classlflcatioe rate for the second shin.
irx iwo (2) complete Christmas Day) shall 1/2) times his basic d shift.
(e)	An employee required to wbrk after 7:00 pm on Christmas Eve shall be paid one and one-hall times his basic classification rate.
26:09 For a 3-shift operation the 24 hour period which shall be observed for all Contract designatedholi-days shall be the24-hour period fdlowing 11:00 p.m. the night immediately priorto the holiday, and ending 11:00 p.m. the day of the holiday.
In these circumstances, the ratelof pay for the 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shift on the day pf the holiday shall be calculatedon a straighttime basis
59
ARTlCljfe XXVII VACATION PLAN
All employees are required^ take a vacation with pay in accordancewith the provlsichs of this Article.
27:01 (a)
<b)
An employee is eBgibld for an annual vacation with pay provided he has lerformed work for at least thirty (30) calendar da; s during the qualifying period of July 1st of the preceding year and June 30th of the current year.
The service of rehired employees acquired while in their previous employ] shall not be considered in assessing their eligibility/ for vacation entitlement
27:02
(a) An employee having Ibss than one (1) year's service, at the end of th i qualifying period, shall be entitled to one (1) day of vacation with pay for each full month of employment up to a maximum of ten
(10) days.
(b) An employee having
one (1) year but less than
three (3) years' service i, at the end of the qualifying period, shad be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation annually wth pay.
(c)	An employee having three (3) years, but less than ten (10) years' servlo during the current calendar year, snail be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation annually with pay. Th s additional week of entitlement must be taken after the employee's third anniversary date.
(d)	An employee having ten (10) years, but less than eighteen (IS) years' s atvlce during the current calendar year, shall be e otitted to four (4) weeks vacation annually with pay This additional week of entitlement must be takejn after the employee's tenth anniversary date.
(e)	An employee having eighteen (18) years, but less than twenty-eight (28) years' service during the current calendar year, shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation annt ally with pay. This additional week of entitlement rr jst be taken after the employee's eighteenth anniversary date.
(0
(g)
An employee having twenti-elght (28) years, but less than thirty-two (32) ye irs’ service during the current calendar year, sha be entitled to six (6)
weeks vacation annually w h pay. This additional
week of entitlement must be
taken after the employ-
ee's twenty-eighth annlversa y date.
An employee having thlrty-t vo (32) or more years service during the current t alendar year, shall be entitled to seven (7) weeks vacation annually with pay. This additional week < f entitlement must be taken after the employee's rhirty-second anniversary date.
27:03
(a) For an employee entitled to f ss tnan two (2) weeks vacation with pay, vacation (ay shall be calculated at the rate of 4% of the emfloyee’s gross earnings for the qualifying period.
(b) For an employee entitled to vacation with pay, payment^ tion shall be calculated at ‘ employee’s gross earnings f
wo (2) weeks or more r each week of vaca-he rate of 2% of the rthe qualifying period
including the vacation pay received during that period.
27:04 Subject to the provisions of Section 27:01 (a), an employee who through lllnoss or accident loses seven (7) continuous working days or more of employment shall have his earnings credited with the nurriber of hours so lost multiplied by hlslbaslc regular rate for the purpose of computing vacation pay, provided such Illness or accident is verified by a certificate from a duly certified medical practitioner.
27:05
(a) An employee shall be paid ns vacation pay prior to the commencementof his vai ation period.
(b) Notwithstanding 27:05 (a), not taken his full vacation December of each year shall any outstanding vacation p year, provided he advls Supervisor before December
employee who has entitlement prior to upon request be paid by the end of the
8 his Foreman or st
piy
81
27:06 An employee le Company shall be paid the entitled from the preceding his last day of employment
aving the employ of the vacation pay to which he is Julv 1st up to and including
27:07 The Company m; its plant for vacation purpos through August 31st In any down shall be the ‘Prime Va ees so affected and shall their total vacation entitlemti includes a recognized holic employees affected by the vacation period extended by
ay elect to dose any part of as within the period July 1st j ear. The period of this shut-:atlon Period' for all employ-({onstltute all or a portion of at. If the shut down period ay, then all non-contlnuous shutdown shall have their one (1) day without pay.
27:06 Employees not at acted by section 27:07 shall be entitled to take a maxim jm of two (2) weeks of their vacation during the Prime ' 'acatlon Period. (An excep
tion to this may be made
n accordance with section
26:02.) Unless other arrangements are made, the remainder of their entitleme it shall be given at another time with consideration giyen to their preference and seniority.
27:09 Vacation schedules shall be posted not later than March 1st, and the C ompany shall endeavor to inform the employees affected of any departmentalshutdown priorto this date.
i shall
27:10 An employee any portion of his vacation allowed to have It accumulaila
not be permitted to waive entitlement, nor shall he be from vear to year.
27:11	When a n employee
lay-off is expected to last weeks, any unpaid vacatior shall be paid him at the time
is laid off and the period of 'or more than thirteen (13) pay to which he is entitled of lay-off.
27.12 Should an employee oe recalled to work during the current calendar year, he shall be entitled to a vacation period as provide! i for in 27:02. An employee who has been on lay-off for less than twice his vacation entitlement must take the vacation to which he Is entitled under27:02.
62
It shall be the prerogative of an on lay-off for more than twice hi! choose whether or not to take tht
entitled. Payment tor such vaca upon whether or not he has alrt tion pay under the terms of 27:11
^nployee who has beer vacation entitlementtc vacation to which he I:
on shall be dependen ady received his vaca above.
27:13 An employee recalled tied to vacation period must sei not been previouslyallocatedto1 department, group, or shift t1 recalled.
rcm lay-off who isentl 'ct a period which ha bother employee In tht which he has beer
ARTICLE Xtflflll VACATION ALLOCATIONS
28:01 Vacations shall be allocated within the fitty-twc j52)^week period commencing with the first Sunday Ir
28:02
(a)
Except as described In sectl n 28:02 (b), the ‘Prime Vacation Period' shall no mally be twelve (12) weeks in duration, subject t< a maximum of seventeen (17) percent of the t nplcyees in any one group being allowed off for' acatlon purposes. The Prime Vacation Period shall end each year on the Saturday Immediately pn cad ng Labour Day. Vacation relief during the I rims Vacation Period shall be retained within shif s and on a shift basis except where a wheel relief system is In operation, or where it is mutually agreed to extend such systems to other groups.
<b)
When the complement In the leal Group and/or the Maintc i is eighteen (18) or more, tl determine the maximum nurfeber the Prime Period will be nearest whole number. At this calculation will result In of vacation weeks for all both of the above groups tc the Prime Period.
Maintenance Mechan-ance Electrical Group a calculation made to allowed off during ounded down to the ertain complements, an insufficient number employees in either or choose two weeks In
63
28.03	The following grou
individualand separate units allocations inthe Prime Perl<
>s shall be considered to be for the purpose of vacation donly:
1.	FORMING GROUP:
All Forming classifications except Utility Cleaner Group Leader and Day Schedule Utility Cleaner.
2.	COMBINEDGROUP:
Utility Cleaner Foming Group Leader Utility Cleaner- Forming
3.
FABRICATION" A TWI
STAND PLY GROUP:
Fabrication" A Twist ar d Ply Operators Fabrication" A Machine Cleaner
4. FABRICATION “A" PACKING GROUP: Fabrics!ion"A Packeis Fabrication" A Production Operator
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10
ROVING GROUP.
All Roving and milled Fiber classifications.
REINFORCING MAT G ROUP:
All Reinforcing Mat classifications. FABRICATION ‘C’ GR )UP:
All Fabrication *C" das: ifications. MATERIALSDISTRIBl TION GROUP:
All Shipping and Stores classifications. MAINTENANCE MECI- ANICAL GROUP: MaintananceMechanu Maintenance Mechanlc|Apprentiee. Carpenter-Painter.
MAINTENANCEELECtRICAL GROUP:
MaintenanceElectrlclaili. MaintenanceElectrlclaili Apprentice.
11. MAINTENANCE COMBINEC|GROUP: MaintenanceGenerdlLaboun Janitor.
Maintenance Utility.
Tool Crib Attendant Material Handler- Batch Houte.
When there are six employees in Group 11, two additional weeks in the primejwill be provided.
28.04 The maximum number Af employees allowed off for vacations outside the PrimUPeriod shall be computed for each group accordingtoHie following formula:
(a)
(b)
(d)
After the Prime Period has been completely allocated, a balance of weeks outside the Prime Period shall reman in the vacation y|ar.
The total remaining weeks c for the entire group shall thei case of ‘continuous shift pri computation shall be made CUD combinations, (orequival
vacation entitlement be computed. In the duction groups', this 'or both the A/B and snt designation).
(c)	The total remaining weeks ot shall be divided by the wei vacation year outside the Prln
vacation entitlements ks remaining in the e Period.
th \
The total resulting from above, shall then be increase l number and shall be the employees in the Group alt outside of the Prime Vacation
Example: In Group X a twe ve (12) week Prime Vacation Period has been cor ipletely allocated and ninety-live (95) weeks of vac ition entitlements are still to be taken in the remaln4g forty (40) weeks of the vacation year.
95 140= 2.4
calculations In (c) to the nearest whole njaxlmum number of off at any one time »erlod.
low id
Therefore, a maximum of thre employees in Group X would be allowed off at af one lime outside of the Prime Vacation Period.
65
Notwithstanding^ above,
i) if the calculation generates a number whose decimal fraction Is greater than .8 (eg. 3,81), one additional errll loyee shall be allowed off at any one time outSSe the prime but within April 15th to Septemb6 ' 15th, and In the two week period which incltl *fes both Christmas and New Years Day. This £ft|>lles to continuous shift production only.
ii) Group 9 (Utility C ’ ' "leaner) wl1 2 3 4
(e) 0)
Utility Cleaner) time outsidethe i
Except as noted (All Skilled Classifications) Electrical Maintei lined In 28.05, shall be allowed Prime Period in a ber as compute I described in 28:0'
'aner G/L and Day Schedule be allowed 2 off at any one
plihrte
, on?
off
(ID
n 28:04 (e) (ii) for Group 6 Mechanical Maintenance and Group 7 (All Skilled ince Classifications) as out-employee from each group at any one time outside the ldltlon to the maximum num-according to the formula «l).
When the complement of a group 6 or Group 7 or both is eightee \ (18) or more, then the number of employee: i allowed off from the group during the two (2 week period which includes both Christmas C ay and New Years Day, and the two (2) wee t period which includes the annual March scl ool break, shall be the maximum number con puted according to the formula described In 28:04 (d) plus two (2) additional per week.
28:05 The following^ ®partmental Groups shall be considered as separate fts for the purpose of vacation allocations outsidethe p" e Period
1.	All FormingDepartifi* Cleaner G/L and Day
2.	All Fabrication"A"
3.	All Fabrication's"
4.	All Fabrication'C"

I Classifications except Utility schedule Utility Cleaner.
irtment Classifications, ’artment Classifications, irtment Classifications.
66
5.	All Materials DistributionClalsiflcations.
6.	All SkilledMechanicalMalntinance Classifications.
7 All Skilled Electrical Malnlorijnco Classifications.
8. All other MaintenanceOepajment Classifications.
9 Utility Cleaner GIL and ray Schedule Utility Cleaner
28:06 The classifications of 'arpenter-Painter and Tool Crib Attendant shall be e* :luded from the units referred to in section 28:03 & jj section 28:05 and employees in these two (2) das! flcatlons shall be entitled to select their vacation durlrw the period referred to In section 28:01.
This entitlement is valid only so lohg as there is only one (1) employee in the dassification concerned.
28:07 Employees eligible for vacations shall be contacted in order of seniority and asxed to select their entitlement.
The method of allocating vacation4 shall be as follows:
(a) (I) OPTION ONE
First Choice - Two (2), one{1) week segments in the Prime Period wherever available.
Second Choice • The remailSer <f his entitlement In weekly segments in any Janner. If any of this entitlement is taken outsld^ of the Prime Period during this choioe, an emploVfe may elect to specify that he will be taking on6] Weeks vacation one day at a time outside of thdifrime Period as outlined in28:07 (b).
An employee who chooses iptlon One must wait until all first choice selection^ have been made in his Group or Departmental Iroup before making his second choice.
(ii) OPTION TWO
The employee's foil entitlement in weekly segments outside the Prime Period.
An employee who selects Ortlon Two may choose
67
his entitlement in anyl manner and this selection shall be considered asp complete and final choice.
An employee may ele taking one week's vai side the Prime Period
:t to specify that he will be icptlon one day at a time out-outlined in 28:07 (b).
(b) An employee may eifOt to choose one week oi vacation which will be taken one day at a time subject to the following:
(I)	For continuous shifts, one week will be considered as 3 or 4 shifts as specified by the employee.
(II)	Fornon-contlnuou 8 hour shifts, one week will be considered as {shifts.
Single day a time, shall be ri and a minimum of four weeks notice gle day may not selected day is talji
selections must be taken one day at e strlcted to one (1) per week, one week and a maximum ot must be given. A further sin-selected until the previously en.
b i
(iv) Notwithstanding single day selectibi come first servp employees per in Article XI) addition to the other provisions
e above, seniority provisions, ins will be granted on a first ! basis. A maximum of 2 per department (as deflnec be off at any one time, In iployees allowed off througf o) this agreement.
dry
mar
eni
(v) Vacation pay for single day selecti|>i lowing the first d;
the week selected under the ms will be paid the week fol-a taken.
(vf) Single day selei the two week Christmas Day af
«ilons are not allowed during p eric d which includes both d New Years Day.
arc not taken before January year, the employee will con-ian the dates which he wil be to fulfill His entitlement If the i ible to provide those dates, shal assign sufficient dates to
(vii) If all eligible days 31 of the vacatio i firm with his forer i taking as vacatioiji employee is un then the foreman utilize any outstanding days entitlement
68
(viii) Single day requests wli not be granted if vacation special arrangements would be contravened.
(c)	In some Instances, becausf of prior selections, full options may not be availably to an employee.
28:08 When a recognized vacation period of a day-schecjjl may elect to extend his vacation out pay. This day shall follow hi: the employee’s absence a< Company's operation. In these day shall be selected which is m Company and the employee, his Foreman of his intentto extei least two weeks before the start if the above mentioned vacatior than one recognized holiday, th shall apply regarding extension a
i onday falls within the jle employee, then he jerlod by one day with-vacatlon period unless Iversely affects the circumstances another iipally acceptable to 1he employee must notify l his vacation period at if his vacation. Further, period contains more in the same principles id other terms.
Th! r d
28:09 Certain Vacation Spefcii selected classifications are necei dent operation of the Plant durin Company and the Union shall mi vacation period and mutually agi tatlon of said Vacation Special Arrangements
al Arrangements for sary to ensure the effi-vacation periods. The annually prior to the upon the implemen-
< et ir ie
28:10 The Company and theiunlon agree that subject to the general provisions of Article XXVIII, Vacation Allocations for the Mechanics in vie Alloy Section of the Maintenance Mechanical grouplshall be restricted so that:
<i)
At a complement of two 12) employees, one (1) shall be retained at any ( ne time.
(II) At a complement of hree (3) or four (4) employees, a minimui i of two (2) shall be retained at any one time
Should the complemen section increase to f Company and the Unio the matter with a view minimum restriction if necessary in the Interest^ Plant efficiency.
or Mechanics In this ve (5) or more, the i will meet to discuss Increasing the above action Is deemed
sich .
69
ARTICLE XXIX
TRAINING AND EDUCATIONAL MEETINGS
29:01 From time to time ed to attend classroom type Ings outside of their regular meetings shall be at straight days notice shall be given, conducted on Saturdays, Sl. Holidays, and shall not excep week.
employees will be request-raining or educational meet-vorklng hours. Pay for such time, and at least seven (7) Such meetings shall not be jindays, or Contract Agreed id six (6) hours In any work
An employee requested to attend classroom type training, or an educational meetipg which Is not adjacent to, or during his regular shifts, [shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours straight time wages. If the employee is not in attendance at the stai I or finish of the meeting, he shall be paid only for the tlm > present at the meeting.
29:02 On a maximum o endar year, Forming Depar convened and employees
AttAnri
eight (8) occasions in a cal-ment shift meetings may be nvolved are encouraged to
These meetings will take place following a regularly scheduled shift, and will r ot exceed two (2) hours In duration. Pay for such meetings shall be at time and one-half the employee's bi sic class flcation rate. Such meetings will not be convened on a Saturday, Sunday, or recognizedholiday.
At each meeting, safety anfi prime objective. Notice of ed at least one week In adv
d health subjects will be the t lese meetings shall be post-snce.
If the Company encounters attendance problems at such meetings, the parties agree to meet at the request of the Company to discuss and qkplore solutions to the problem.
29:03 On the occasion When It Is necessary to selec employees for courses or! peclalized training, the Unlor Committee will be consult id on the Company's selec tlon.
70
ARTICLE xkx BENEFIT COVERAGE
30:01 The Company aoknow"'~'“* that the Tollowln
benefit plans are in effect:
(a)	Group Life Insurance Plan
(b)	Weekly Indemnity Plan
(c)	Long Term Disability Plan
(d)	Group Health Plan
(e)	Ontario HealthlnsuranceP141 (0 Dental Insurance Plan -
An employee is eligible to partlcfi ate in these plans in accordance with their provisions!as outlined in the governing benefit pian documents. $l benefit plan change: become effective October 1, 1992 except as otherwis* stated. Some of the highlights 4f the plans are brief I'
described helnw
30:02
(a) Basic Life InsurancePlan:
100% of basic annual earnliigs rounded to neares $500, minimum $35,000 ba: c life insurance cover age for all eligible employee!,
Employees hired prior to Oc ober 1.1992 retain ai Accidental Death and Dism imberment (AD.& D. Benefit of $17,500 which supplemental to thi Basic Life Insurance Benefit.
(b) Wfeekly Indemnity Plan:
(i) Payment of W.l. benefit will be 86.2/3% 0 scheduled dally earnlnga In no event less thar the minimum Unemployment Insurance (U.l. benefit entitlement and {subject to the benefi
payment scheduled.
(II) Benefit Payment Schedule
Scheduled Working Day of Absence % of Maximum Ipaiiy Benefit Payable
Duration			3rd&
(Hr*.)	1st Day	2nd Day	ubsequent Day
e	0	50%	100%
12	0	100%	100%
71
If an employee becomes Occupational accident, or Is a licensed hospital for at dally benefit will become p, uled working day of absence
(c)	Long Term Disability PI in (L.T.D.):
disabled due to a non-ponfned as a bed patient in ast twenty-four hours, the i yabe from the first sched-
In order to qualify for L
service with FCI. If he coverage Is scheduled
T.D. coverage an employee
must complete a minlti mm of 12 months of active
s not actively at work when I to commence, his coverage will not begin unm he Has returned to work full time for full pay.
Eligible employees longer than twenty-sin their total Weekly Inde tied to apply for L.T. qualify win receive a l) $375.00 per month each full year of servlci i basic pre-disability e monthly earnings up (Including Income fro employer contributes Canada Pension Plah which is payable solely: ee has a dependent from all sources for i respect of the disability benefits) and paymen s exceed SS% of basic p 'i
becoming totally disabled for (26) weeks, having drawn nnlty benefits, shall be enti-benefits. Employees who inefit equal to the greater of plus $30.00 per month for up to a maximum of 60% of irnings or ii) 37% of basic to a maximum of $1,500 i any sources to which an except that portion of the (CPP) Disability Pension because a disabled employ-ihlld). In any event, income ilch benefits are payable in (Including CPP dependent from any employer cannot e-dlsability earnings.
b i!
The payment of benefits is subject to a pre-existing conditions limitation.
(d)	Group Health Plan:
(D Hospital Benefit:
A 90% reimbursement of Hospital charges for semi-private accojnmodation.
(I|) Major Medical:
80% reimbursement! of the first $500 of eligible expenses for emolovlee coverage and $1,000 for
12
family coverage in each calendar year 100% reimbursement above these levjels. Eligible expenses shall includethe following:
Expenses incurred for drugsl provided they are prescribed by a physician or de itist, and dispensed by a pharmacist, physician or lentist. To be eligible, drugs must have an assigr ed Drug Identification Number (DIN), or must be ai extemporaneous mixture which contains a drug ingredient which has been assigned a DIN.This do ss not include vitamins.
A Vision Care benefit provi ling reimbursement of eligible expenses up to a m udmum of $100 every 24 months, per person, and £100 every 12 months for children under 18 years, or corrective prescription lenses, frames, or cont ict lenses, when such are recommended by a phys Han or optometrist
(e)	Ontario Health Insurance Pla i
The Company pays the emp Ontario HospitalandMedical
oyer health tax for the Plan (OHIP).
(I) Dental InsurancePlan:
This plan is comprised of thri nents, namely Basic (Pre
e (3) separate compo-entlve) Care, Major
Restorative Care, and Orthoc antic Services.
Eligible expenses for Majc r Restorative Dental Care, which includes covert jg for inlays, crowns, and dentures, are reimburse I at 50%, and in combination with Basic Care, are subject to a maximum benefit of fifteen hundred do ars ($1,500) per year per insured person.
Eligible Orthodontic service! which pertain to the moving or straightening of seth, Including appliances, bands, eta, are provit ed on a 50% co-insurance basis. This coverage »limited to a lifetime maximum of one thousand dollars ($1,000) per insured person.
Reimbursement is based Dental Association Schedu effective on the date of the ai dental charges shall be Schedule of Fees. In 1996, the announcement covered
m me 1994 Ontario e of Fees. In 1995, gnouncement, covered d on the 1995 ODA effective on the date of c ental charges shall be
bas j>
73
based on the 1996 OD t Schedule dt Fees. In 1997, effective on the date of the announcement, covered dental charges shall be based on the 1997 ODA Schedule of Fees.
30:03 The Company shall Dav the total cost of the
plans described above.
30:04
(a) The Company shall cdntinue to maintain the above plans for an employee who is disabled and unable to work because of act ident or sickness.
(b) The Company shall m the exception of Weel I employee who Is on a i or on lay-off for thirty (ft
30:05 An employee si vacation pay and Weekly ously. If an employee be£> scheduled vacation period Weekly indemnity claim vacation or he may choose tion period and have the v dance with the provisions '
slntain the above plans, with :fy Indemnity benefits, for an i approved leave of absence 10) calendar days or less.
be ineligible to receive ndemnity benefit simultane-ernes disabled prior to his ie may choose to waive the or that period and take his ! to waive his scheduled vaca-acation rescheduled in accor-and (b) below:
I all
(*)
(a)	For employees witHi vacations in July and/oi August, the Compaq will endeavor to reschedule their vacations within July and/or August at a time mutually convenient to the Company and the employee.
(b)	For employees with vacations outside of July and August the Company shall reschedule their vacations outside July and August at a time mutually convenientto the Comoany and the employee.
ARTICLE XXXI PENSkON PIAN
31:01 An employee Id eligible to participate in the “Fiberglas Canada Inc. P sr slon Plan for Hourly-Rated Employees' (dated October 1st, 1972, as amended on January 1st, 1977, Januar r• st, 1981, January 1st 1985, and January 1st, 1989), in accordance with its provisions. The highlights of the ‘Plan’ are outlined in a Pension Plan booklet
74
31:02 The current pension dan shall continue as previously amended on January 1 1989 pursuant to the pension plan agreement with the ACTWU and CEP. The plan will be renegotiated as or 1/1J95 upon the expiration of the current pension plan agreement either collectively as in the Dast or it some other manner.
ARTICLE XXXII DISPOSABLE COVERALLS
32:01 Upon request, disposable coveralls will be supplied to employees working r C hop Strands, Wet Chop Strands, Milled Fiber, an" rtreel Operators in Fabrics tion'C".
ARTICLE XXjllll TERMS, CONDrnONS
MODIFICATION, RENEWAL AND TERMINATION
33:01 This Agreement shall d 1st dav of June. 1994 and shall ri
em
3ist day of Mav 199/ and from ?jrns$5 Bltner’party gives the other of its desire to mocfify or amend a thereof. Such notice must be giv i (60) days, nor more than one hun days prior to the termination date
jjsantryrannsTBSffeT party notice in writing iy section or provision n not less than sixty Ired and twenty (120} this agreement.
33:02 It notice of desine to modify or amend any section or provision of the Agreerm nt is given by either parly, in accordance with sectio i 33:01, negotiations shall commence not later than twe ity (20) calendar days after receipt of such written notici, and this agreement shall continue in full force and effe :t until consummation of a new Agreement or completi in of the conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Ontario.
effective on the ain In effect until the
33:03 The parties hereto agree that this Agreement and all attached Letters of Intent and Understanding and Memoranda of Agreement shall constitute the complete
75
CollectiveAgreement between the parties hereto and th< parties hereto are bound by its terms and conditions.
33:04 This Agreement supersedes all prevlour Agreements and Memoran la relating hereto dated prlo to the affective date of this Agreement.
33:05 The Union agr strikes, work stoppages, w would stop or interferewith
es that there shall be nr 'flkouts rr other actions whicl production.
33:06 The Company aprees that there shall be nr lockout of employees.
33:07 The parties und ■ keto forward a copy of the Agreement to the printer I n thirty (30) calendar days <f the date of the slgnatu 1 The Company agrees to make available a copy of to: Agreement to all employ-
SIGNED AT GUELPH, ONTAF 1 THIS 22ND DAY OF NOVEMBER1994.
FOR THE COMPANY
E.W. Mogk,
Plant Manager
0, Charlton,
Manager, Corporate Personnel& IndustrialRelatlc
R, Friend,
Human Resources Manager C. DeNardls,
Labour Relations Specialist A. Larsen,
Forming Superintendent Z. Zongor
Fabrication Superintendent R, Irving,
Maintenance Superintendent
FOR THE UNION P.Raso,
President, Local 130$
L. Lelstl,
Vice President, Local 1305 R. Leader
Recording Secretary, Local 1: D. Norris,
Financial Secretary, Local 13i R. Conway,
Sergeant-at-Arms, Local 130.' A Trewln,
Regional Rep., Joint Council
77
SCHEDULES OF BASIC
HOURLY RATES OF PAY		IUNE		19S	
			Con-		Ion-Con
			dnous		tinous
Job Classification	c	ie	Shift	:od<	Shift
Electrician				LI	
Maintenance Mechanic	it	>	20.12	L2	20.68
Caroenter-Palnter				L4	
Furnace Ooerator			18.19	N1	18.75
Binder Mixer			I7.95	P1	18.50
BatchhouseOoerator	E	i	17.72	03	18.01
Set-up					
Utility berator-Formina	E	i	17.47		18.01
Bushina Heat Control Man	E	2		Q1	18.26
Yam Checker-Forming	
Bushing Operator Winder-Forming	Ft i
Reinforcing Mat Machine	
Operator	
Wet ChopOperator/WIndei Roll-Up Operator	i
Reinforcing Mat Storeskeeper Mixer	F)
Milled Fiber Operator Tool Crib Attendant	F ’
InspectorReinforcing Mat Packer-Textiles Slitter
Reinforcing Mat__________
Winder Checker Twist and Ply Operator Splicer-Fabncation"C" Service Attendant Fabrication
Service Attendant Forming Winder-Fabrication "B" Reconditioner-Forming
»
l
H2
H3
15
16
17.25
17.15
R8
RI	17.86
R2 R5 RG R9	
51 52	17.76
B. T2 T3	
T5	17.65
T6 T7	
APPENDIX ‘A’
SCHEDULESOF BASIC I
HOURLY RATES OF PAY I JUNE 1. 1094
Job Classification	Co	Is	tlnous Shift 17.13	Code W2 W7	Non-Cos tlnous Shift 17.63
Creel Operator End Finder Multiplewinding Operator Mis. Textile Operator Maintenance Utility Fab B Utility Cleaner	t 1C				
Production Operator	j-			X1	
Material Handler					
Batch House	-		18.92	Xi	17.42
Utility Cleaner-Formina	-			X3	
Machine Cleaner	.			Z1	
Janitor	-			Z2	
Bobbin Reconditioner	K1		16.79	Z3	17.29
Sweeper	-			Z4	
General Labour	1C			Z5	
The basic classification rate forlprobationary employees shall be $2.00 per hour less thin the basic hourly rates listed above for the first forty-five (45) calendar days of the probationary period.
The basic classification rate folbtudents shall be $2.00 per hour less than the basic hoiJ *y rates listed above.
Group Leaders shall be paid a f 'emlum of $.70 per hour and their basic classification rat# shall include the Group Leader’s premium.
Charge Hands appointed for a Idngthy illness or vacation relief purposes shall be paid a premium of $.30 per hour plus a Group Leader's premium of $.70 per hour and their basic classification rate snail include these premiums.
79
APPENDIX 'A'
SCHEDULESOF BASIC I
HOURLY RATES OF PAY ) JUNE 1 '99S
		Con-		on-Con
		tlnous		Ilnous
Job Classification	lode	Shift	lode	Shift
Electrician	r1		LI	
Maintenance Mechanic		20.42	L2	20.99
Carpenter-Painter			L4	
FumaceODerator	Pi	18.46	N1	19.03
Binder Mixer	01	16.22	n	18,78
BatchhouseOperator	E3	17,99	Q3	18.28
Set-Up	El E2	17.73		
Utility Operator-Forming Bushing Heat Control Man			Q1	18.28 18.53
Yam Checker-Forminq	Ft			
BushingOperator	F2		R8	
Winder-Porming ReinforcingMat Machine	F3			
Operator	F4	17.61	Rl	18.13
V\fet Chop OperatorAVInder	F5			
Roll-Up Operator	F6			
ReinforcingMat Storeskeeoer	F9		R2	
Mixer			R5	
MilledFiberOperator	F7		RG	
Tool Crib Attendant	02		A9	
Inspector-				
ReinforcinqMat	G1	17,51	SI	18.03
Packer-Textiles Slitter	G2		S2	
ReinforcingMat	G3			
Winder Checker	H1		Ti	
Twist and Ply Operator	H2		T2	
Splicer-Fabrication “C“ ServiceAttendant	H3		T3	
Fabrication ServiceAttendant Forminq	H5	17.41	T5 T6	17.91
Winder-Fabrication "B“	H6			
Reconditioner-Forming	H7		T7	
appendixI		7		
SCHEDULESOF BASIC				
HOURLY RATES OF PAY		JUNE	id*s	
		Con-		1 Non-Con
		tlnous		tlnous
Job Classification	Cod	shin	Code	, shin
Creel Operator	12		W1	1	
End Finder	13		W5	
Multiplewinding Operator	-	17.39	W2	17.89
Mis. Textile Operator	-		W3	
Maintenance Utility	-		W4	
Fab B Utility Cleaner			W7	
Production Operator	J1		X1	
Material Handler				
Batch House	•	17.17	X2	17.68
Utility Cleaner-Forminq	-		X3	
Machine Cleaner	-		Z1	
Janitor	*		Z2	
Bobbin Reconditioner	K1	17.04	Z3	17.55
Sweeper	-		Z4	
General Labour	K2		Z5	
The basic classification rate for Probationary employees shall be $2.00 per hour less thalthe basic hourly rates listed above for the first forty-fivq (45) calendar days cf the probationaryperiod.
The basic classification rate for s udents shall be $2.00 per hour less than the basic hourh rates listed above.
Group Leaders shall be paid a prt miim of $.70 per hour andtneir basic classification rate ihal includethe Group Leader's premium.
Charge Hands appointed for a led rthy illness or vacation relief purposes shall be paid a pre ilium cf $.30 per hour plus a Group Leader's premium of $.70 per hour and their basic classification rate shell Include these premiums.
81
HX A1
■APPI
SCHEDULES OF BASIC HOURLY RATESOFPA'I
Job Classification	ode Al A2 cT Dl_ E3_ El E2	Con- :lnous Shift	Zada	Ion-con tlnous Shift
Electrician MaintenanceMechanic Carpenter-Painter		>0.83	L1 L2 L4	21.41
FurnaceOperator		18.83	N1	19.41
Binder Mixer		18.58	P1	19.16
BatchhouseOperator		18.35	Q3	18.65
Set-Up Utility Operator-Forming Bushing Heat Control Man		18.08	81	18.65 18.90
Yam Checker-Forming Bushing Operator Winder-Forming ReinforcingMat Machine Operator Wet ChopOperator/Winder Roll-UpOperator ReinforcingMat Storeskeeper Mixer Milled Fiber Operator Tool CribAttendant	FI F2 F3 F4 F5 F6 F9 F7 D2 G1 G2 G3 H1 H2 H3 H5 H6 H7	17.96	R8 RI R2 R5 RG R9	18.49
Inspector- ReinforcingMat Packer-Textiles Slitter ReinforcingMat		17.86	51 52	18.39
Winder Checker Twist and Ply Operator Splicer-FabricatiorfC" ServiceAttendant Fabrication ServiceAttendant Formin! Winder-FabricatiorfB” Reconditioner-Forming		17.76	Tl T2 T3 T5 T6 T7	18.27
92
APPENDIX		A’		
SCHEDULES OF BASIC				
HOURLY RATESQF PAY		JUNE 1.-1096		
		I Con-		Non-Con
		tinous		llnoue
Job Classification	Code	Shift	Code	Shltt
Creel Operator	12		W1	
End Finder	13		W5	
Multiple Winding Operator		17.74	W2	18.25
Mis. Textile Operator			W3	
Maintenance Utility			W4	
Fab B Utility Cleaner			W7	
Production Operator Material Handler	Jl		X1	
Batch House		17.51	X2	18.03
Utility Cleaner-Forming			X3	
Machine Cleaner			Z1	
Janitor			Z2	
Bobbin Reconditioner	K1	17.38	Z3	17.90
Sweeper			Z4	
General Labour	K2		Z5	
The basic classification rate for probationary employees shall be $2.00 per hour less than the basic houny rates listed above for the first forty-firel(45) calendar days of the probationary period.
The basic classification rate for s jdents shall be $2.00 per hour less than the basichou' Prates listed above.
Group Leadersshall be paid a p tnium of $.70 per hour and their basicclassificationratf nail includethe Group Leader's premium.
Charge Hands appointedfor ak reliefpurposes shall be paid a pi
urns.
thy illness or vacation lium of $.30 per hour if $.70 per hour and include these preml-
a3
19&5
CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE - A,B,C,D
□□naaanaoaaaaaaoananacioacinaoann
□□aaaaaauiiaiuiDmoimDDiiiaaiaaaaQtii^Eaa
nnnQDQaUaHHBDE3GQEQaaGBBDEDBQBU
□□□aaBQDBaacjaacjBQBBaQBEBoaaHaao
Ftbrusry	w	T	7	7	7	M	T	w	t	7	6	fi	u	7	N	7	7	7	S	M	T	w	7	7	a	S	u	7	■“		“
	T	7	7	7	7	1	7	T	7	io	vt	\7	is	M	J	is	17	16	IS	30	5i	22	a	M	i	5	27	S			
Osys	A	A	c	7	C	B	8	B	0	0	0	A	A	A	C	c	c	e	D	B	0	0	D	A	a	A	C	c			
Nights	9	B	o	0	0	A	A	A	c	c	C	B	7	B	D	0	0	A	A	A	c	e	C	B	■	0	D	0	—		
—																															
Mftrch	w	1	f		8	M	T	w	1	f	s	S	M	T	w	T	F_	B	a	M	T	w	T	F	8	8	an		W\	T	F
	1	r	7	7	S	•	7	r	«	10	(1	i?	13	U	js	is	17	is	it	s	21	22	a	H	a	a	:iiE		a	s	31
Oays	C	i	0	7	0	0	D	A	A	A	c	c	C	fi	B	B	D	D	0	A	A	A	c	0	c	B	nr		S	0	0
Nights	IT	A	A	A	c	C	£	I	1	B	PI	0	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	a	H	B	D	0	0	A	□E		3	c	C
	- 			1																															
April	fl	aaBEJuau							ij	[m	T	wl	T	F	E	2	M	3	M	3	M	S	s	2	u	3	3	H	a	aj	
	3	Ejaaaaaa							2	[io	U	ij]	(7	U		a	17	a	a	g	3	i	i	§		a	u	g	a	S	
Days 1	A1	auaaanc							b]	[o	0	D]	A	A	5l	j	C	2		S	2	0		0	J		£	<T		2	
Night*	X	nnaannu							AJ	E	c	11	B	fi	s		0	D	Aj	E	a]	Cj	e1	1	B	I	1	3	3	D	_
[TgMaaaHt3aaaBaaaDQaaanaaaauaouuuaua
■■aaaaaaauaQaiuaE(DtDiBa]E3aa3a3aejaQ3£!i
inlnnnQQBaoaBBBErEEonanaBBBEEEEBBD
KSiaanaBanrBBBBncnBBBDDBBEBnnoHaaE
Juno 0*. Nights	T	F	8	s	M	T	w
		2	3	«	5	S	7
	A	A	C	c	C	B	8
	|	B	0	D	D	A	A
tiQaanonaao	[s	M	E	w	T	7	0	s	[y	[7]	w	0	f	2
□C1S[DEDK0[HE	p	it	g	21	22	23	s	a]	S		a	a	30	
□□□□DUCQBB	le	B	s	0	0	D	a	AJ	[X	rcl	c	a	B	
□HGBEGrEGE	[A	A	E	C	c	C	a	]y	ft	0	0	l	A	
□□□DaaatiBnoaaQiaaauciDaBBDonoQBBD
uuaaauauuHfflitiaiiiiaiaaiDtuaaiaaaaafflacaa
EnaaaaauaBaEctBBBauuaBBCEEBDaQa
naaaaEnEBBanaDBBBEEaFiBBnDnaaaEE
AupuM 0«ys Nights	T	w	T	f	S	8	M	T	w	T	F	s	8		T	w	T	F	8	9	w	T	w	7	7		5	M	T	w	T
		2	3	4	»	S	7	•	I	10	It	12	13		13	10	17	11	IS	a	21	3	»	M	a	26	27	a	a	a	31
	A	C	C	C	£	B	£	0	0	0	A	A	A		£	c	B	B	B	D	0	0	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B
	1	0	X	0	A	A	A	C	c	c	£	£	£		3.	p	A	A	A	C	c	c	E	9	e	£	0	0	A	A	a
auaDanauaunnaasiaanaonuannciaanaBB □□aaauauaaaaBBiaumacGaasaaasaaaB naQQuuaaar.ErntinaaaaaacEEEBBuauB BaarnnnnnnanatiBrEnBnnDoaBaacEEB
ncioaHBULiQuauuuaaQaHauuLJuauui-iiJDu
oauaauauuiQaoaoiaaaatDaaaaaaGHacaa
uaaccEBBBauuEBBEEnBnnuuuuaacEEn
nannnoaaarrFnrcioanaaarrrnBrinana
Nuwhor Days Nights	w	f	F	8	8	M	f	5y	7	f	rsi	8	M		ran	nns	M T W 30 21 B 5u p**
	i	2	S	4	S	1	7	«	s	10	ii	12	IS		hi	LUliiiL	
	0	0	A	A	A	6	e	i	B	0	B	0	0		ME	uau	
	c	c	B	B	D	f)	0	0	A	A	A	c	c		rr	EEC	
																	
naana
3-2E3EQ
EBBED
nBQBF
E
n
[A
[1
on
EE
□a
EE
r-3auuauauaaaaoanaaaaaaaaaaDQCioaBa
■MaauaauauuatiiiQaBinaiQaicaaEaaEEaEEEa
SSuurrrnnnaaouBBrrrtnnnaDBBUucEEnn
ffifflinBaanaaQrrrnnEaaaaHaEEnEEEnaoaa

1997
FTSFh
CONTINUOUS SHIFrSPHEDULE - A,B,C,D
Jwiuvy
aaaaaaaauiHffliasiMioajomQaiaasiaaaaaESJ
UBEaaidaaaaaauEiaGaLJuaaDfciuuEEEuuu
□anD'daaDQDauamauuuGEEBBunnnauu
T	T	s	S	M	[f]	7	T	E	I
T	i	T	T	io	jfi]	ii	i5		ft
r	a	9	B	IT	[Em	IT	A	3	i
S’	X	A	A	r	P]	E	I		g
□□aaaaaaaa
II Si 2J ID 5)03:32133 U'JUEEUULiUia
uuuaaauauE
8 IE
D**b
Nlahit
D*y*
win
uannaaaiJuaDauananuDQaaunaanaaaa
□uuQaauuaamiDiuD^iaiiiiijiDa'aiaaaaaaaQEtii
ddQEDJjaaUIJaaLMGElJtJLiaUUUUUGGGLlU
aannnaaaDaouuuianaaaaEEEEsiEanautJ
UEaaQQaaaaanapaauannaaaoanoaQn*
□□□□□□□□UQ[nDmrj'aElH[DtDt3[3I322iaaEPEE*
aLlDUJJJEEUiJULJUaUtJ'JaEEELJUUUDUUU*
aanD3GianaadadCEEuuuanntdtdtdEcnuu
uaauaucaaauuaaaauaaDuannDnnncinnD
uuuauuuouiHtaiiiflaniaajciEaaasaaEjaaaEa
annDJadanudd'dEncudaaaDdaaEccuQa
jaaadddnooauaDanadaEEEUULJDnaduu
aaaaanonnnanaQaannnaDnnonoDDna* uaaaaauuaaiDmaeDiDiaiotDaa-DsasaaaaEB Uaa'dddCDUaddDCaUddEDEBlJUQBDUtiUB nnnaaaaaojjdnc EQaaannuaucEEEQaB
aaoanunaaBauaiiaaaaDuaanDQannnnn
uuaaaaunuiDiDaniiiajaiiiDicaLiiaaagLJEBaQEa
□□GaaanuaaaaEEEuaauaauuuECEuaBa
uaadddCEnaaaaEnaddCEEauuDDnuaur
DuoauaaauuauasjiuuanucaaBcunDDOOLio
auuaaaauuaauuc.iaciiamiijaaaaaaa'jaaEa
□□aaacGnaaaaaGBuaEEEaaaanLjuuunc
cnaaaanaaaaGniaaanaauaucccEEEua
	M	aa
	7	aa
Day*	1	jj
Monts	A	aa
nn	7	m	J	JU	[ m]	7	w	T	7	8	3	M	7	w	B	7	8	B	3	T	~
UL	10	n	M	iij	1 m	ji	17	ii	li	30	lii	a	5	5	3	a	27	5	a	s	
aa	t	B	[1	| c	E 3	0	A	A	7	C	E	r	e	1	is	0	0	0	i	A	
aa	D	A	H	A j	[ 3	c	2	B	2	0	E	0	A	A	Aj	c	t	c	2	3	I
□□□□naantiannanaananonaDnannncjnia
aaaaaaauaiBBEraaianiaiDmaaaa-aaaQSSJEGi
□aaanEnaaauuouuarrraaauuuuHucrc
naaannoaaarrniiaaaanauarrcraaranuo
uuanauuuaauaDuauGDaaanannnnrsnn*
uuuaauuumDanjHi'jaamiDffiEa3232'DsaQE*
aaaaanaaarnraiiaauaaaaEFraanDaaB
aaannnaaaaaaauarFGaaaaanaHarrrB
□□□uauannaQaoaaaQuanaancnQunaDa
uuuuauuuuaiaaaicaciaiDcaaaaaaaaaEaci
aaannEaaaaauaiaarrcaaaauaaaQFrrH
sinBaaaaannnaanoQaatJrrrsnnntmB
		r			r	j	n	r	r	p		P	r	□
	s	5	•	r	ff	2	S	[s		E	I	E	fi	ra
	5	m	K	a	m	§	wj	m	m	S|	«	E	|t	i
	i	[7	T	M	2	5	f]	[7	f"3	E	M	E	i	□
BnnnoDDonoE
□rraranmmnann
nnnnnnnanaa
•HAN
«*0
tti'ititi i nil n riTi 1111n i1111,
CGCQDDGBElDDDEliEDDDDBDDanBQEanDG
ocsBOfflEiEiaBBiBGninBininmtsQiiEninnHnBnQmi
nnanciEmnnDDnniinannnnnnannnonnan
rnmn mi nlrm n n m 11111 rrswr
DnnannocnnrEEiinnnaDDnnnnccnnnEB
DEsramBBBiEEiBBniriniainioKiaiBQinnBODOtinn
□nnnnpnnnnnnaiinunnrcjnannnnnnaDa
sA*a
rm i iinTTi rn mm n rj m*
•tea
lOPfiQDEnnnnEEEnnnnEonnoEDDDoncc
iGsnsacjiaEEiEEjoinniDiBionaBiaaoBaBnoBn
unauDauaupnaEnnDDnDnnnnDnnnnnn
~riTT~rn i i 11 i ill it rn
iTU I I T f 1 i t I I I f i T I I I I •ngw
•tea
BOODBBBnDDBDEEiaaQBBDDDEBEaanEEE
nntsGsaBSEEBcninnnirannEiiDcinnnnnnnEn
QnQoooBaDcinnnFDDnnnnnnnaDnnnnnn
rri rri t iTm 11 ~n~
iii*
7 H it (i i "I**8
" TTT
■■■
■BnooEDonEOEDFODODDnnnEnBnnnEEE
■□SGEEmaasEEGainiBinraotiamannnnDnnno
■DnnoapjaannupcnuEnDaonannnPoaDD
1 lit f i ill l l wtPtfi •tea

Mir
Trrrmrr
nnnEDDnnnDBEnGnDDDnnncEonnnEEEn
(nnBEBEEBEEEDrnn mranjo rasm mnnoDDDOEn EnaonnnDDnDannnnnnanDnnnnaonnoa
•tea
ri rr m n 111 nti rrirn hti \ rn i\
■■■nuuonnnuEEEonDEEEDnoEEDonnEC ■■■EaGEQEEraEcnn'DnitiniriFTtirannnnnnnnn ■naEDnnnnnnnnonnDannnnnaannna
nwT
Btea
Miuvi
□DDDBEBnOOEEBD nnEOEDonooonnncEB
EEaaaQEi3BEa3EniB)iiniEnm!EtnicinDnnDaBnn
DnnnnnannnnnnninnDBiipnnonBoanca
■535n
ttma
IVIN ONV 30NVN3ANIVN
i's—BinasuosAva jjihs snormwoo
S66t
uaiiriaoaaaucjoonaaauLinannnnnnnnnn
nuDapaaaauajiDui-JiDiDiBiaiDGaasaiDSfiinnati!
uaujpuuEiuupuoiiDPPPuiiUUPUUQaujpa
Nw.,n n m n 111111 rm i rm.mrrrn
Hqwmbw 0»*t	f	S	ft	u	r	ft	T	F	ft	7	u	T	w	r f	r	9	M	7	ft	f	F	ft	9	M	T	W	T	F	f	
	1	?	J	4	»	•	?	%	1	M	M	U	IS	4 l»	i?	1*	ii	it	k	»	(2	3	it	n	k	&	M	if	so	
	T	f	r	?	i	r	T	T	i	ft	1	T	T	*	ft	ft	T	T	T	T	7	7	T	7	T	7	7	7	T	
													it																	
fTTTTTraQaanaaaannaaaaaaaanaonnnnnDngna
■■■uuunauuDUiDajioaiDniaimDiDaaiaaLaacQDEaca
[SluujjJuiiatJuauuiiuuLiuuajuuuuuajLiuu
mn7
CONTINUOUS SHIFT DAY SCHEDULE—S,T MAINTENANCE AND MAT
1995
CONTINUOUS SHIFT NIGHT SCHEDULE ■ Q,R
maEinaDaaaauaaaciaaoaaucjHCiQaocjoa naanaaaaaiiaiDiiin DmoammaaaaaaatsaQQEi
1996
CONTINUOUS SHIFT NIGHTSCHEOULE * Q.R
ESC	□
□□■a □□■a □r.«a	
□HI	3
□iia	
SB!	n
BHI	a
UMB	a
OBI	71
OBI	□
OBI	3
□HI	3
labia □HI	Li □
hub	y
□ai	x
ubb □aa oaa ana	X x a a
oaa	3
uoa	m
aai	p|
□□a □oa □ OB SOB	□ a a a
aoa	
uni BBI	s
in	

Wsna
□Cl
□a
□ci
SB
OB
PCI
OB
QB
OB
OB
OB
ae
oa
as
oa
oa
□a
OR
OR
pa
oa
□□
oo
DO
SO
so
PO
oo
an
□a
_ 2
o
1997
CONTINUOUS SHIFT NIGHT SCHEDULE - Q,R
aaapanaEoaoDaGiaoaoanoaaGeiLiciaaaa
rFEaaacmaaanr'naaannnaaarrraBBB
□□□□□DaaDaanauQaapaoaaaDaaoDuaa
□□oaaaaapacDinEDitacDCQtamGEiaaaaaEGGaa
-WWi l» UIJ cl Jr In 1h 1 q| q! q|h Ir 111 ol qI qIp U U LI <J oL Ip Iff Ij {JqU In I
Oty*
Nlghtt
0*y*
Nighte
□nnaaaanaDaQaciaanQDnaanDaQnDQnB
□□□□□uaaaojttiniJCJiDiotijDEGQ^aEaaaaGaB
□rppnaarinn'aaarnnaaannnaaarrraa*
naoaaaaaauaaat^aaaaDUujnnDanncfinB
uuuaHuuuaHmBBnsiiJiDimusuaQjaa^sD^pQ
□EFEaaarppnaaiTnpaaannnaaLirFFaaa
□□□□□□□□□DaaauaaQanQDannDonnDaB
□□□□□uaauEttiBiBiaiDataimEa333E33E23a
EFFanaFFFaaani
iiaHuiiiinrsjinain/asn
5To r 5 s 5 s 5	5s53s55Z
Day*
FFFaaaEFEaapncBnaannnaaaFFFaaaF
□uuaanuauuaaaaauaaoaBaauDuciQQao
□uuaauaauiaiDDUDH[ncuaiD2a33aagEaaaaEii
auoaauuauDuaapoaEPuaaQunaQncicjD*
□□naauaaaaaiaaoiDniiJiDmDaaaGaaQDDa*
□□ananaunaaaoauuaaauaannnnnanai
auaauuauaEKDaEiDDiDuiiunjauiaacaaEDDai
Laei.
□□caQaBCjaapaaEQaaDHanaanEDnaonan
□uuauuuuuiHaiBii.a]DiijaJEiut3ai3PPPa[SPEam
■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■a
□ □□EEEOQUEEEPEQEQBIJUElEEGQlJaEEGU
1995
CONTINUOUS SHIFI\SCHEDULE SHIFT ELECTRICIANS
i&* 'S
CONTINUOUS St IFT SCHEDULE SHIFT ELEC TRICIANS
Ffl
DnoaaanannoaoDannnDounnciijQODonn
DoaaaaaaaiDtDiDioaiQDiDaiDaagaaaDEa^EGa
DauatJtiLiULjDaauuiJUULaaauitiuuuLLDaQ
uuiJuaaaaautJLjtjLisanEUtJtJttnaEKCtiut:
uaoaaaaDaDuaanaQaaaQaanaaaaau auuQauHuuuiDaBaaiDQjiiimaaaaaaneiina cuuuuuaaaaauuijiaaDcictdiJLLkauctiBB uaaaatatiuuuuaaaauLiULjUDai2DEiUULiuaB
aaaDaaauaaaaauauuDuaanancinnnnno
uuunaaaaaainiDamiiimflCimQaaEauiaEaaaEaa
uaauuaaaaauuLLauaL:iiutJL,Luaaut:uuu
DaaaaautitJulaaQQtJutjt.taactit!uuui.Hna
□HnijanaaaanraaaaannQaunnnnnnnnna
aaaDaaaanEtnEumaataEiDGaaaaasaaEaa
uaaaaaauuuEaaaaBuuiitiiiaaEEtitiuEiiJi
EaaQauunnQaQaaiiuanEEEUUEEaanEE
□uanuaaaouuQaapuaDnnQaaauDanaaa
uuuaaatiuuiHiiuHiiiciDiataiQiEEaaQEaQQiaEatii
uaaauuuLijaaaEEUULLLaaEEUutjLLaaL*
ouLiUuaaoauauLjuanEEcaaLLaaacEuuLi
□□□□□□QauaaaauaaaoaQarinnnrinrinn aaaaaaaaaniaaEC HnsamiEiasssiQaEaEiQQ* EQQULjLjDDUUOULJEl»LQBEEUUUEL.UOEEE* EJLiaaaaauaijEanEQEaaEEaaaEEEELLL«
DuaaaaQnaaaaunanaDQaaanaaannona
uuuauuuuuiJiliiDBiiiammamamaaaaaEaaEaEB
UULjUOQQUEUUEEL.QBECtiaaEEEBEEEEULi
BaQDaauELaaEaEUQEEaaaEEUuLLLaaE
DaoaauaaaQaaucuDuuDuanQnnnnnnnn
auuaauuauiBffliUiJiuJttJiiiiuicaaaaaaaaaaaci
LjaaBaOUULEEaDEEUUUEEnaEEEEEEEaa
EauatjtjaaDOQuuLiLBaacEauEEEoaEEEU
Otyt
°*V*
WoUtt Z
[s	M	T	w	rl	f	s	7]	n
[T	2	9	7	|1	7	7	r	□
»7	X	X	2	z\	7	3	3	a
fr	w	w	Y	rl	X	I	Si	a
								
n	7	a	8	M	T	w	T	p	8	8	u	1	w	m
it	il	n	is	is	17	a	IS	20	ti	a	a	N	ts	3
E	I	a	I	7	95	7	V	X	X	X	1	1	Ti	L
E	V	3	7	3	X	z	a	7	7	si	1	7	X	E
n	u	r	w	7	p	7	8		T	ai
u	7	•	7	10	11	ii	I9		IS	
ffl	V	7	X	X	r	Y	7		7	a
E	z	1	B	s	7	7	V		X	Ul
uuoua
miDiEsa
BEEEU
□ECUO
n	8	5]	2	w	T
r:	27	m	»	90	91
b	7	jj		T	7
u	Y	3	73	I	s
MqH$
Day*
uuuaQaonuuaaatiuuacanarannnonnna
HunauaauuuDUBCJiaaEaiDLiaasaQaaaDEB
tULiaaDDUUQEEDBEEEaUEUaaUEEEUEEB
EnEQQECDHaDEQUEEEBnEEaUEEEanEEl
□□DnaaaaaoauatiLiancnaQaonnnnnnnn
uuuuaauuaamamuHammmauiaaa^aaasaa
EaaDaaauEEaaEi3DuaLEaaaEEEUELLBa
raoctaaaEEauEEEaaEEuuuEEaaEEEEU
1997
CONTINUOUS SHIFTl SCHEDULE SHIFT ELECTRICIANS
if i if *1
li i Ii
■ 1111 i li 11 l
II II
H |
CONTINUOUS SHIFT ..AYSCHEDULE - U,V
1996
CONTINUOUS SHIFT DA Y SCHEDULE - U.V
DuaoaoQauaoaaijCjnciEBDQDDEJQQQUDQQ OQQDQUQUDH3IQIQ[QIQIQ(QiQ[I BEE22E)2IEaQa2EDEQ£D □annaaaaaaannnaanciaaanncsejnnrjQcin
I t M t I U.LU LI.U l.l I 1 II l l l l.lll l l U
*abntsif Oft
HaaaaaaDuaanaciDaQODaaanaaaaca UUUUUUUUUiJ[DaBaiia3BClD33-3Sa335iaE*B □aaannuannnaunnaaannaannnHann««
' I I I I U 1-U UH.1.11. U I I LI I I IHI.L
□□□□aaoaoDaaDaaaan□□□aaaauaaneia □□OUUQOUa[a[fliQI][flI3iI]fflaoaa23E3DQ2E3tD □□□□aaananaannDtoan’jaannnacinnama
Bir»
www i i i i i i r i i i m i n in i i rn rn i i 1 i i m
□aanutjoaueiuaunaaan jqqdodqdddqdi □□□□□□naaiDmajDaiaEiiBaDEsaiaaaaaaaEa* ancjaannaannaatinnacjinrjQBnnnQHPina
WWW I I I I I I Mil i i rri II I w I I I I i i i i tt i
□□□QaauauauuaaaaauijaaaQunaanDua
auuauuaaaEiDiUiacuiaajsuisjaaijaaiJQaEaa
cjanaaai'jaamananacirjaiiaanntaauinnuaa
ww» i ) i i i ) i i i i i i ) i i i i i i i i i i I I J L I l.l.i i
c	T	7	1	5	u	[7	w	T	F	8	8	m	T	iTT	7	E	7	M	T	W	T_	F	s	7	
tl	«	7	•	[?	10	m7	H	i?	U	is		M7	i?	i»		»]	a	a	H	i	97	a	9	M	
n	7	7	U	[7	7	y	u	U	z	z	z	[CF	7	!Z	7	0	u	z	z	7	U	z	z	z	
■				f								c													
aduauaapauauaauaDuiiuaaanannDoao
uauaauaaniunHOoaiDiBiacEeaaangEDEaasaED
aocjaaaacja.'jLJDCjaauaaaaaQaaiueiciaaiau
www II I I II I ll ll ll ll ll ll l ll ll II I II M
uuDQauuuuuauauuauunaaannnnnnnn*
uuuauuuuuaiDUiDiaiUEiuauj'aajaaEjaae/acEi*
aaauaaaujuaaaacjanauaaacuoujaaacaaa*
mw« i i i i i r it i i i i i m i r i r i ri i t i i i nm
Beilin	8	u	T	w	T	f	8	8	u	y	ft	T	F	8	8	W	T	Ml	T	f	r	•	M	T	w	T	F	8	8	M	T
	1	*	I	«	S	T	7	i	•	10	11	i?	i?	14	IS	11	17	7	10	10	21	7	a	i*	5	»	a	a	a	s	Si
Day*	r	u	U	/	t	0	7	7	/	4	7	7	/			u	u	/	4	J	7	u	4	4	7	U	¥	V	4	7	U
MoMo																															
1i&7
CONTINUOUS SHIFT JAY SCHEDULE - U,V
oDDisaaQDQDanciODaDauaDnuonnQBai
□auaaupaQEiaBjjiaiaaiBiamEaiaaaaaEiiaa!
aaauuaaauuaQimuuiauaaacivjBDQDCci
■w n ) n i i n m rrrm-m rrr
**t D«yt Niahti	T	w	T	f	S	9	u	T	w	T	f	8		M	T	a	r	e	8	8	M	T	w	T	f	8	8	It	T
	\	1	i	4	i	•	1	T	i	10	11	12	i	14	IS	M	IT	ti	19	20	21	a	a	24	a	k	27	3	a
	U	5	V	U	u	U	7		u	u	7	V	p	U	U		V	u	c	U		V	u	U	V	V	V	E	u
													£																
Awftutf
0*.
Nights
uuuaaauuDnao'jaauuaoaauaoQDauo DQBDQPDLlDEQIIliQlillZIiQlQIBIQIQBSilQQluIQQQQBI □□□atiQciaaaaa aBQQatJBiQQEiUBQBocQ ■■■■■■■■■■■■»■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■
DUaauDaDaanaFjtianDaQtjanDcnnnaai
□□aaaauaaiaiuaaaiaBiaamaajassiiQQaE!
uaaauuaBoaiaaaacjcitJiauuBaBBCBQBBi
w i i M-i n IT i n M i II m Mill rrm
□anaaaaaaaapaaciaaaoaarjnDnonDai
aanaaaaaaucai]Qa]aa][DQ3(D2[i!03a3DQ2Gi
uaoQQcaaaaaaEaoDCiDDDaacuaQQCCUi
NmN. mu m m rrr nim
uoD»J3HunDDUi:aaupaunuunnnnnnan
auuaaaauuuaiiiiBmajaiiDjcaaascsDaiaG
anaaoaoaaoaEiaaaBaaoBeiaaEEBBEE
1995
THREE SHIFT SCHEDULE - J,K,L
Jsiwry 0^ i «	s	M	n	w	T	w	a	•	u	T	w	7	F	8	s	u	T	T	F	■	•	M		w	T	f	•	S	M	T
	1	l	i	4	i	i	z	£	1	if	)l	it	ta	11	'1	11	12	>1	s		tf	22	21	a	a	V	ft	P		31
		4	j	J	J	J			R	R	K	R	K			L	L	L	L			J	j	j	j	J			K	X
		R	K	R	X	R				L	k	L				J	4	4	J			X	ft	ft	ft	ft			L	l
	r	r		r	r			7	7	7		J			X	IT					C	L	L	r	r			7	3	7
fHtwy o**t At NigHl	w	T	*	9	8	S	T	H	T	f	8	8	M	T	w	T	f	9	M	T	Mr		F	8	8	y	1			
	i	\	}	f	i	i	I	l	i	tfi	u	|}	a	12	11	1ft	U	u	20	it	»	p	31	a	ff	If	9f			
	ft	R	T			L	L	.	f	.			J	J	J	J	J		R	R	I	R	R			L	L			
	t	L	.			J	J	J	4	j			R	R	R	R	R		i	L	L	L	L			4	J			
	J	7			ft	R	R	R	R			7	r	.	.	i		4	4	J	J	7			ft	A	ft			
March Oayi At Nights	W	T	f	s	8	u		M	T	F	8	1	u	T	Mr	T	F	9	H	T	W	T	F	6	8	M	J	w	T	F
	1	i	3	4	9	£	I	£	S	<0	If	it	13	14	i»	If	»r	II	30	11	s	2	2*	a	a	V	?f	ff	89	31
	l	.	.			J	J	J	J	J			K	k	R	R	R		L	L	L	L	l			4	4	j	J	J
	J	J	J			R	R	R	R	r			.	L	.	L	i		4	J	4	J	J			R	R	R	R	ft
	R	R			r	r	r	:	L			J	7	J	7	7		R	R	R	I	R			r	L	L	r	L	
AprH Days At MOM*	8	9	M	T	w	T	F	8	&	M	T	w	T	F	8	s	M	w	T	F	S	$	M	T	w	T	F	8	8	
	1	|	»	i	s	«	7	£	f	If	1	1	11	12	H	U	17 i	11	ft	21	22	28	3<	39	ft	37	39	3»	30	
			X	X	ft	R	R			.	L	.	L	L			J	J	J	J			K	ft	K	ft	ft			
			.	L	i	L	L			J	J	j	J	J			R f	R	R	R			L	L	L	L	L			
		7	J	7	7	J			R	r	R	R	R			7	r c	r	r			7	7	7	J	7			ft	
Wiy 0»y* At Nt«n	M	T	w	T	F	S	S	u	l	w	T	F	8	8	U	T	w	F	8	8	u	T	w	t	F	I	8	M	T	W
		£	1	4	£	£	7	f	s	■9	it	if	u	11	l»	19	If	If	&	21	s	23	22	39	29	37	B	f9	ft	f!
	l	.	.	L				J	j	4	J	j			R	R	r f	R			L	L	L	L	L			J	J	J
	J	J	j	J	J			R	K	X	K	R			.	.	. i	L ~			J	4	4	J	J			R	X	ft
	V	R	X	X			r	i	r	r	l			J	j	j	j			X	X	K	R	A			7	r	r	l
JWI* 0*t At Mghts	T	f	8	9	U	T	w	7	F	8	8	u	T	W	T	F	8	U	T	Mr	T	F	8	8	M	T	w	i	F	
	1	i	}	f	f	1	7	4	7	i£	n	12	i3	M	1}	19	y:	11	ff	11	B	a	a	a	38	V	n	ft	30	
	J	j			i	K	R	K	R			.		.	.	»		J	J	J	J	4			X	R	R	R	R	
	R	R			L	L	L	.	L			j	j	J	J	J		R	R	R	R	R			L	L	»	L	k	
	r			7	J	J	J	j			X	R	R	R	R		" L	r	r	r	C			j	J	J	j	J		
July Ooys At worts	B	s	M	T	W	T	7	r	8	M	T	w	T	F	8	8	y	w	T	F	a	£	y	t	W	T	F	8	8	M
	1	t	1	4	f	4	1	i	£	5	LI	11	11	u	12	li	•f	If	ft	It	Ff	33	74	a	21	2Z	3f	a	£	Jl
			L	L	L	l	i			j	J	j	J	J			R i	X	X	X			l	L	L	L	L			J
			J	J	J	J	j			R	K	R	R	R			L 1	L	L	L			J	J	J	J	J			X
		R	R	A	R	R			7	r	L	.	r			7	J	J 7	J			R	R	R	R	R			r	l
lu|MI	T	w	T	f	9	■	M	T	w	T	F	8	8	y	T	w	T	F 8	8	M	T	w	T	F	8	8	M	T	w	T
D*H At Nights	1	l	J	i	f	£	7	l	«	i?	'1	12	13	14	19	19	17 '	! !i	£	21	n	33	21	29	ff	a	ft	?s	ft	ft
	J	j	J	j			ft	R	R	X	X			.	.	.	. L			j	4	4	j	4			R	R	R	ft
	K	R	X	R			L	.	L	.	.			J	J	J	4	4		X	R	R	ft	R			L	l	i	L
	L	.	.			J	7	j	7	4			R	R	R	R	K		L	L	l	L	r			j	J	j	j	J
SqMa Days At NifiltS	T	s	8	M	T	w	T	F	8	8	M	T	w	T	f	8	8	4 X	W	T	f	8	8	M	I	w	T	F	8	
	i	i	I	4	I	T	i	r	i	If	iT	5	1)	|4	if	19	17 !	l 1	99	31	33	33	s	a	2f	ff	a	a	?o	
	K			.	L	.		L			j	j	j	J	j		1		R	X	R			i	L	L	L	i		
	t			J	J	j	j	J			k	X	R	R	K		1	.	L	L				j	J	4	j	4		
			K	K	R	R	R			.	L	7	.	.			J	4 4	J	J			R	R	R	R	a			
Odstsr Oiys At »**•	8	M	T	w	1	F	8	S	U	T	w	T	t	8	i	M	T	1 T	F	8	8	M	T	w	7	f	8	9	M	T
	1	1	1	1	I	£	J	|	•	If	iT	ii		12	tl	!ft	SI:	i j	ft	21	tf	a	a	a	ff	f7	a	ff	ft	11
		J	J	j	J	J			X	R	X	R	K			.	. L		L			j	4	j	J	J			ft	X
		R	X	R	R	R			L	.	.					4	J	j j	4			R	R	R “	R	R			L	L
	r	r	.	L	.			J	J	j	J	j			R	R	ft 1	i			r	7	7		7			4	J	“7
HfMNtNf Osya At Mom	w	T	t	8	?	N	T	H	!	7	4	5	y	T	Mr	T	F	8	y	T	w	r	t	8	8	y	r	W	T	
				i		£	I	i	I	ti	s	!I	1?		ft	3	3:	ff		f)							jS	s	30	
	K	K	X			i.	L	u	i.	i.			j	J	J	j	4		X	X	X	X	X				i.	L	L	
	l	.	.			J	J	J	J	1			K	X	X	X	K		L	l		i	L			4	4	J	4	
	4	J			R	ft	R	R	X			.	.	.	.	.		J	4	J	4	4			t	K	t	K	ft	
Ouomtm D*. At	f	i1	s	y	T	w	T	r	J	4	u	T	W	T	T	8	7	1 T	W	T	F	9	8	y	T	w	T	F	8	8
	1	1	l	4	i	i	7	i	£	i	11	if	if	11	if	t£	ii:	[ ]	20	71	FF	n	s	w	n	a	tf	ff	£	a
	L			4	j	j	j	j			X	X	K	X	X		u		L	L	L			j	4	j	J	J		
	J			X	k	K	K	K			.	.	.	.				J 4	J	4	J			X	X	X	X	X		
						t.	i.			a	4	4		1			X	: (	X	X			L	L	L	L	L.			j
January	M	T	W		f	8	3	M		W	T	F	; L	M		w	T	F	?	8	M	I		I	F	8	t	u	t
Days	A	L	g	4	i		i	i	a	If			1 f	1ft	If	17	If				77								
	X	X	j:	1	x			|	|	|	|	A .		J	4	4	J	J				y	y						
Aft	1	L	l	k	x			4		4	4	J				y							|	1				4	4
Mgftft	J	J	j	J					y				J	1		|				4	j	j	4	4					y
February	T	t	s	8	u	7	w	T	F	8	8	M	F	f	f	8	8	M	T	ft	T	f	6	8	U	t	W		
Oaya	|	1		1	t	7	l	£	ft	is	11	1£ 1	i R	|ft	|f	17	ft	1?	JO	21	77				ft				
	_L	l			4	J	J		J			y	t |t	X	X			x	X	1	A	A			J	4	4	4	
Aft	4	<1			X	X	Jl		K			1 J	L l	X	L			J	i	4	4	j							
								£			J	4		4					y					k	J	|		|	
March	F	8	•	M	T	w	T	F	8	8	M	T	¥ t	F	8	3	M	1	ft	T	F	1	1	M	t	W	T	f	8
	1	£	j	«	£		L	£	1	IQ	11	!£	j Q	12	11	iz	18	11				&	n		S				ft
D^t	J			JC	JC	JC	X	JC			X	1	L x	1			J	J	4	4	4								
Aft	Jl			1	X	1	|	|			4	J	7	j															
"r*			7	J	4		J			x	1	IT	1 K			x	1	1	|	|			4	4	4	J	J		
Apfft	M	T	W	T	F	8	8	M	t	w	T	f	8	M	r	w	T	F	8	«	¥	T	K	I	F	£	8	M	I
	]	1	)	1	£	f	I	f	£	11	u	If i	• £	|j»	if	17	H	s	n	fi	3	ft	71	a	fa		7#	ft	ft
Day*	J	1	i	l	L			J	J	4	J	4										|	1		1			4	4
Aft	J	J	J	J	4				y		y			1	I	1		1			j	4	4	4	J				
NrBKft	|	|f	|				|	l	|,	x	|,		J	J	j	7	4					y	y					|	1
Hay	ft	T	7	8	8	M	T	ft	T	F	8	8	T	ft	T	F	8	8	M	T	w	I	F	8	8	M	T	W	f
	A	£	»	f	1	i	I	|	ft	|0	i|	111	u	a	U	1?	u	11	jo		B	a	21	2ft	ft	ft			
Oaya	J	J	4										Jj	i	X	J			4	4	j	4	4						
Aft	JC	X	X			x	|	l	l				J	j	4	4			y		y	y	y				|	|	|
Ntofta					7	4	4	J	4			x J	K	y				|	|	1	1	|			J	4	J	4	4
4UM	8	8	u	T	w	1	F	8	8	M	T	w	F	8	8	U	T	ft	T	F	8	8	M	T	W	T	F	8	8
	1	£	T	1	JL	7	I	ft	t	1°	11	If 1	u	(S	12	u	II	ff	ft	fl	ff	a	24	if	ft	2f		ft	»
Oaya			J	A	L	1	1			J	J	j	J			y			X	y			A	A		I			
Aft			4	J	J	j	J			X	£	X J				X	1	x	1	x			J	4	4	j	4		
_*»»•						1			x		l	Jl J			7	4	4	4	J							y			|
My	M	T	•V	T	F	8	8	M	T	w	T	r i	8^	H	T	ft	T	F	8	y	M	T	fi	T	£	8	8	M	t
Oaya	1	2	£	1	|	i	£	£	ft	u	11	U ]	u	12	ti	JZ	|ft	If		71	22	ft	a	ft	ft			it	ft
	J	j	4	J	J				JC			JC .		£	i	X	|	|			j	4	4	4	4				
Aft	|	y	y	y	JC			L	L	L	(,	X .		J	4	4	J	4			X	x	x	y				I	|
Niahta	J	k		J			7	j	7	4	J		; k	y	x					1	|	L	l	|			7	7	
August	T	F	8	8	II		ft	T	F	8	8	M	w	T		8	8	M	T	w	T	F	8	8	M	T	ft	T	F
Oaya	1	2	£	1	I	£	l	1	£	i	|1	If 1	11	|ft	j	1 f	l|	2	X	71	e	a		ft	3	27	ft	ft	ft
	J	X			i	(	1	|	L			J	J	J	4														|
Aft	1	L			J	J	J	J	4			JC,		y	y			i		A		A			4	4	4	4	4
Marta	J																J	j	4	J	j					y			
	S	u	T	ft	T	f			M	T	ft	T	8	£	M	I	w	7	f	7	8	M	x	ft	7	F	8	8	M
	i	ft	£	1	ft	f	£	£	ft		|1	If	H	1ft	If	iz	12	if	s	&	3	2?	M	2ft	ft	27	ft	a	32
Oaya		4	4	J	J	J			JC			I			i	1		X	1			4	4	4	4	J			
Aft		y		Jl	JC				L	1	1	x			4	J	j	4	4										
Mflfta		J						7	J	7	J	J			ff	y					1	|	L	|	|			j	4
Oct Mat	T	ft	T	f	6	r	M	T	w	T	7	6	M	T	W	T	F	s	8	G	T	W	T	l	8	8	M	T	W
	1	£	£	1	R	£	£	1	ft	11	ti	If	i n	11	u	iz	If	11	28	it	77	ft			3	i7	ft	If	ft
0*a	J	y		X			|	t	i	1	1		r J	j	J	j	J				y	y		y			1	1	A
Aft	1	l	1	|			J	J	4	J	4				y	y					|	f	i	A			J		4
MKfta	7	7	1			K	K	K	K	H			ft						4	7	T	J	I					f	y
HMMte	F	8	8	M	T	w	T	F	8	8	M	X	¥ T	F	8	8	M	T	ft	T	F	8	8	x	I	w	T		8
		f	1	f	£	1	7	£		|fl	1|	2	I 11	|ft	If	17	ta				7f			a		3	i	71	a
Dftf*				4	4	j	J	j			x	x	lit	y			X	J,	x	A	|			4	j	4	j	y	
Aft	4			X	Jl		jl				1	1	L £	x			j	j	4	4	4			y	y			y	
Malta							x			T		T	jl												1				
	S	M	T	w	J	t	t	a	M	T	w	7	7	5	M	!	w	f	F	t	1	t		w	7	f	t	i	M
	1	f	i	£	£	i	7	ft	£	to	ti	if	I jj	12	1<	2	if	it	ft	11	a	H	M	a	S	s	a	ft	5
0*K		J|	y	y	jl	j			J	|	|	X			J	j	j	j	4			y	x	x	x				I
Aft		J	L	L		1			J	4	J	j	,		y	K	i	X	x			1	1	i	J	1			4
Mima	4	J	J	J	J			y			JC	y		i	1	1	i	1			4	4		4	J			Ml	y
1997
THREESHIFT SCHEDULE - J,K,L
Days At Marts	«v	T			•	ST	7	¥l	T	F	7	T	7	T	w	7	T	TJ		7	w	T	rr	T	T	7	T	5	7	T
		1	9		L	1	L	L	E	IC	U	H	11		IS	11	17	[3	|5a	E	22	E	E	E	a	u	»	a	i	E
	t	t	t			7	4			J			X	T	X	X	X		[T	r	I	r	r			4	J	j	7	j
	J	J	J			if	X	X	X	K			r	I	L	r	r		n"	7	7	7	7			X	X	X	X	X
	1C	K			x	r	T	t	r			j	7	7				X	[X	X	X	X			r	r	r	r	u	
Ftftniaty Day.	8	8	M	T	w	T	f	9	8	H	T	w	T	F	T	8	M	r w	fr	r	i	S	H	7	w	7	r		"	*■
	1	I	l	4	i	t	1	1	i		Vf1	'2	1?	14	£	It	17	[ i»		E	a	12	5	a	X	U	a			
			f		s	7	K			f	r		1	L			4	7		j			X	X	X	X	X			
1 ^ 1 MgMs			l	r	C	U	r			4	J	j	J	j			X	■ X	[X]	X	j		r	r	r	r	t			
		r	tr	7	i	7			X	X	K	X	K			X	r	: r	2]		J	7	2	7	7	7				
; Usrck	8	8	u	T	<H	7	F	8	8	u		w	T	7	8	$	u	‘ w	[7	r	?	8	u	7	w	7	7	7	7	w
	JL	f	y	4	9	j	j	T	E	IS	u	[2	!2	]*	12	it	17	! !>		71		a	s	29	5	E!	a	a	30	a
Days At Man*			L	L	L	£	t				J	j	4	4			X	if		K			r	r	I	r	r			j
			J	4	J	j	4			X	X	X	X	X			L	T		r			7	7	7	7	7			K
		if	X	1C	K	X			r	r	c	t	T			J	4	‘ 7	7			X	X	X	X	X			r	t
April Days	T	w	T	f	8	7	II	T	w	T	F		8	M	T	w	J	1 7	S	U	r	w	7	7	•	8	Si	7	w	
	1	2	i	±		i	»	ft	ft	*9		12	12	11	Ift	19	12	[3	22	E	£	22	E	22	21	27	2!	n	a	
	J	4	J	4			<	X	X	X	X			I	t	r	L		C	4	j	4	j	4			X	X	K	
1 M Mona	X	IT	f	c			r	X	r	u	c			J	j	4	1		r	X	X	X	X	X			u	r	r	
	I	r	c				j	4	j	J			X	X	X	X	X		T	r	r	r	r			7	7	7	7	
May 1 Days At Mans	T	F	8	8	M	T	w	T	F	8	8	H	T	w	T	F	8	M	T	7	T	7	8	1	M	7	w	7	7	7
	t	|	I	4	£	ft	f	ft	2	!2	II	12	13	u	>2	IS	u:		i	E	S	E	E	a	s	fz	3	5	3	21
	K	t			r	£	t	I	f			4	j	4	J	J		if	X	X	X	X			r	r	U	t	r	
	t	c			j	J	J	Jl	J			if	*	X	X	X		r	r	r	r	r			7	7	7	7	7	
	J			&	2	X	X	r			t	r	t	r	r			7	7	7	7			X	X	X	X	X		
Jwa Of Aft Mans	8	M	7	W	T	F	7	s	M	r	w	T	F	6	8	M	T '	7	7	s	8	N	T	w	7	7	1	1	M	
	i	l	I	i	I	i	1	7	I	if	11	Ift	1)	14	ift	It	17 1	i>		2!	a	a	N	a	21	0	»	a	M	
		4	4	4	J	J			X	if	X	X	X			L	l	r	t			7	7	j	7	4			X	
		i	i	K	X	x			u	U	X	C	I			j	4	7	7			X	X	X	X	X			r	
	T	c	C	C	c			4	J	J	4	j			X	K	K 1	X			u	X	r	r	r			7	7	
. Days i Aft Maws	T	w	T	f	7	7	M	T	w	T	7	8	s	M	T	w	T 1	7	S	u	r	w	I	7	7	7	Si	7	w	I
	1	ft	7	4	1	1	7	•	ft	>9	II	12	1)	u	1	11	HI	3	"5	21	3,	»	H	5	§	E	S	3	8	21
	x	X	*	IT			t	t	t	r	I			4	4	4	4 .		n	K	X	X	X	X				r	r	r
	T	r	r	C			4	j	j	4	4			X	X	X	X i		CZ	l	r	r	r	r			7	7	7	7
	j	4	j			r	X	X	K	X			I	t	r	r	t ‘		7	J	7	7	7			X	X	X	X	X
. Aatwsi ■ Days 1 Aft Niqtti Days Aft MflltS	F	7	f	M	T	w	7	r	8	8	M	T	*	T	F	8	ft 1	7	w	7	r	1	8	Si	7	a	7	7	8	7
	1	1	s	4	1	i	I	i	t		11	if	1ft	M	1}		121	12	5	E	2	a	&	a	a	a	a	3	g	F
	t			4	J	J	j	j			X	X	X	X	X		l	L	T	t	t			j	4	j	j	4		
	4			it	iC	if	K	X			r	r	r	L	r			7	7	7	7			X	X	X	X	X		
			19	□	j	J	\£			fr	4	4	4	□			k i	X	j	j			12	12	is	19	□			7
	ouauanaauc3UQunaDniiQUunnnnuDnaD* nnnannnnn[ntniHiiitniaininiii(nP3fn^'n?3ianfBaifna« ujLSJHMUUuuuaaanmnDHBCiaiJUiauua uiaiautaaannnanaaciCJBCiaaauuauuaaaaB UaaUBBULlULllJBBUUUUtBBDDQDDBBlJUUa																													
Odotov	W	T	7	□	□	□	U	w	7	F	s	5	□	T	n	T	j 1	□	M	T	w	T	F	□	□	M	T	w	a	a
Days Aft Mans			y	4	i	1	I	I	I	2	11	12	ift	14	5	19	•71	u	a	E	£	a	5	a	a	a	a	3	a	21
	t	r	c			4	4	J	4	j			X	X	r	t	?		T	t	I	t	L			j	4	j	j	4
	4	J	4			X	I	X	X	X			r	I	r	r	U ’		7	7	7	7	7			X	X	X	X	X
	X	K			c	C	r	c	r			£	j	j	7	7		X	X	X	X	X			c	r	c	r	r	
Nmwitar dm* Aft Mans	I	i	5	7	w	1	r	8	7	y	7	W	T	7	8	i	S ’	w	7	F	8	i	M	7	w	7	7	8	7	
	Z		7	7	1	£	E	L	£	3	u	12	13	14	a	JC	121	a	a	0	2	a	24	a	a	&	3	3	B	
			t	X	7	r	x			r	r	r	r	r			4.	j	4	j			X	X	X	X	r			
			r	r	r	r	r			7	7	7	7	7			X i	X	X	X			r	L	r	r	r			
		7	7	7	j	j			X	X	X"	X	X			r	r 1	X	r			7	j	7	7	7			X	
OssaaMv Days	M	7	w	7	7	7	8	M	7	w	7	X	7	I	X	T	w ’	7	7	7	M	7	w	I	T	7	7	Si	7	w
	1	*	7	7	I	I	z	£	£	5	5	5	5	M	ift	12	Hi	it	a	E	S	a	s	s	s	c	3	5	a	n
	t	C	C	r	r			j	j	j	j	4			X	X	X i	X			t	X	t	L	L			4	7	7
Aft 1 Mans	7	7	I	7	7			X	X	X	X	X			r	r	L \	r			7	4	7	7	£			X	X	X
	K	X	X	X		_	l	r	L	L	L	_		7	£	4m	7 J	~	j	X	X	X	X	X	m		r	r	r	r
ww.» , ...WWWW «	. WWf f^VWi.1. . |*
19$7
NON-CONTINUOUSTVfO SHIFT SCHEDULE - F,G
«j*nu*ry Days Nloht*	5	7	E	s	s	M	7	w	7	7	7	[s	[m	[7	Ev	T	0	j	a	M	I	aaaa	7	[7	T	[w	no	
	1	7	I	7	5_	7	7	•_	7	10	iT	fit	R	[u	M	If	2		>55	s	9>	32 as	»	w	n	g	am	
	0	0	a			I	F	7	7	7		n	g	[a	ra	a	a	t	t	7	7	31301		[a	a	iS	MH	
	F	7				0	0	0	0	a		t		I?	s	f	E	t	t	a	a	3001		[7	£	3	ran	
																												
fibruary	5	5	M	a	w	B	F	§	a	a	1	a	S	F	a	a	M	l	n»	T	f	■jaaocau			a	□	□	n
	Tj	g	7	3	7	»l	7	Tj	s	ial	3	fji	(7	n	s	I	i7	if	0	s	ft	aaasaEE			a	3	J	“1
Day* ;	J	_j	7	t	F	s	7			a	5"	a	o	a			F	7	[7	7	7				&		3	“1
NwW* 1		□	s	ts	1	i	0	I]	3	E	L	Fj	£	i		j	a	0	[a	a	0	mmanaa			E	j	J	
March 1	rg	□ohqun
	[Tj	3UQQUU
Day*	□	■BOORO
Nttftt* 1	Lj	■EEQEE
gm
□nano	pH	[£	g	7]	wTT]	[2	7]	□□aaaa
lammia	ml	fift	m	ft]	iciacj	TTj	3]	2S121QQE1
□□EJQE	fl	L-	B	B	TTfI	E	n	■0QUUQ
aaaa c	#3	n	o'	gj	oiai	g]	n	■nnnnn
e	m	;	a	s	2	£	I	•	3	T	M	E	£	1	8
	g		w	§	nj	ii	3	s	ft	a	5	S	5	K	ft
■	n		F	s	B	7	j		a]	0	a	a	0		
■	3		a	a	a]	a	3	—	B	7	£	E	7		
																															
M*y	7	7	a	8	3	T	w	T	B	8	8		TTv	E	7	8	T	M	7	3	[71	F	8	8	m|	T	W	r	f	£
	t	7	s	7	r	7	7	T	S	to	n	E	iT \	is	ii	7	i*	to	55	ft	B1	it	M	ft	5]	97	5	5	90	Iti
Day*	7	7	J		0	Q	a	?	2			E	£ ]	F	F			8	0	8	raj	8			E	7	F	7	7	
-MflW	0	a	□		B	7	7	7	g	“			o 2	JO	a			I	i	g	|7l	£			3	3	o	Q	0	I
- 	 _ — 1																														
JUM	I	a	B	m	fl	7]	£	1]	nasaaat					IT	0	g	3	[71	g	a	0			i3	nn		3	8	0	
	r	l	0	t	i	7	7_	a	□euddbi					ill	iT	f?	s	ft	s	ft		an			uiii		a	5	M	
Osyf		j	0	Q	V	3		3							J	81	9	8	8	3	rj	fir		L	NI.				[3	
Night*	"1	7	7	7	F	7		3							E	7j	E	B	E	*1	M	ut		E	Ut		J		B	
																														
	2	3	a	g	3	a	3	n		0	F	£	^Tj	Trl	3	2	B	3	S		g	a	E	7	a	6	3	[7]	3	E
	3		a	J	a	a		s	is	0	iT	19	[Tn	jTT	2	ft	Sj	ft	»	i	B	s	[ft	ft		ft	ft	m	ft	s
0*y*	8	Z	o	Tl	3	3	ti	7l	(7	E	F	3	31	nsi	a	8	8		"I	E	F	E	[7	7	n		3	[8	3	3
Night*	7	I	F	I		'	5	a	folo		0		31	m7	£	7	£	__		a	8	0	[o	a	n		7	[7	7	F
□□cjaaauuuuauaiianuciuauuuoaucanuu □uaouauuuiDmajoiaaiDffliaiDEffiaaaa^aasa cmmaaaaammaaauammaaaaaKmaaaaam n*«CJUDCjtiB«anai3n»Baa[aij[DBBnnr3nn»
ciaaDauuDonaaDuaoaaaanDonDanDnQ uauaaaaaaiDmaBiaaiDaiiiltDcaasaaanjjzaa OnDDGlBUUUaUlHQQOaQBBQUBUQBBQO uDBO0BBnnoanB«aciQaaB*nnnnn«
I 10101
Day*
| Nftrn. foIaloT
panDuannaaaHDiianaounaaunanDDnn □□oaaaaaaaai[uaiiD[D[Hai22a'U333aUi2ELj nQDBBUU0U[JB«aunni3B*UL10UU*BnGUU ■□nnQaMaaaaaMaannoMBBUD
Off*
JKSJ
[Ksa;
D*yl
UiMB-
uuaaauauLiaapnauLiaucmjnnDnnnrinn
Dunouuaaua;QJioaiiJ[U[a[iJii.’u;2Lii3333~ESED
■■LuuuaaannanaBBUuuuLiBaunGtJUBB
■■nnnnnBBuiJLijaBBnnnnDBBQUuuuBB
oaaaanaananuaaaapnuuuaDcnunnan
aauuaauuauajuaaiDmcDaJojauiaaaLDaEaEa
UULUUMUNaUHBBUUUUUMUQDUUBBUtJ
naDGDBBauaaaiBnanaDBBOQQuaBBuu