FIBERGLAS CANADA INC. GUELPH, ONTARIO
and
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION LOCAL 1305 GUELPH, ONTARIO
JUNE 1st, 1992
fettaaRfrii
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
FIBERGLAS CANADA INC. GUELPH, ONTARIO
and
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION A.F.L. - C.I.O., C.L.C.
and its
LOCAL 1305
FIBERGLAS CANADA TEXTILE PLANT
JUNE 1st, 1992
1
INDEX
ARTICLE SUBJECT
PAGE NO.
I	General Purpose.......................6
II	Recognition and Union Security .......6
II	Exclusions ...........................7
IV	Reservationof Company Rights .........7
V	Nondiscriminations Conditions of
Employment ..........................8
VI	Strikes and Lockouts .................9
VII	Union Activities .....................9
VIII	Representation.......................10
IX	Grievance Procedure .................13
X	Meetings.............................16
XI	Seniority............................16
XII	Transfers and Promotions ............22
XIII	Reduction in Work Force..............31
XIV	DiscontinuedJobs.....................34
XV	Recall...............................34
XVI	Job Postings ........................35
XVII	Wages, Hours of Work, Lunch and
Rest Periods .......................38
XVIII	Overtime.............................41
XIX	Reporting for Work and Emergency
Call-in ............................42
XX	Shift Premiums and ContinuousShift
Premiums ...........................43
XXI	Notification of Absence..............44
XXII	Absences.............................44
XXIII	Leaves of Absence ...................45
XXIV	Injury and Disability ...............49
XXV	Safety, Health and Security .........49
XXVI	Recognized Holidays .................51
XXVII	Vacation Plan........................53
3
INDEX
ARTICLE SUBJECT	PAGE NO.
XXVIII	Vacation Allocations...............57
XXIX	Training and Educational Meetings.61
XXX	Benefit Coverage ..................62
XXXI	Pension Plan ......................66
XXXII	Terms and Conditions ..............67
XXXIII	Modifications, Renewal and
Terminations ......................67
Letters of Understanding, Intent
Memorandum of Agreement ...........70
Appendix ‘A’ ......................80
4
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
This Agreement is made and entered into this 1st day cf June 1992.
BETWEEN:
FIBERGLAS CANADA INC., a Corporation existing under the laws cf the Dominion cf Canada, with a Textile Plant in Guelph, Ontario, respectively referred to in this agreement as “Company”
OF THE FIRST PART
- and -
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, A.F.L. - C.I.O., C.L.C., hereinafter referred to in this agreement as "International Union”, and its Local 1305 Fiberglas Canada Textile Plant, respectively referred to in this agreement as “Local Union” with said “international Union”
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
The parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
5
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PURPOSE
This agreement is entered into by the parties in order to provide for orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and the Union. It is the desire of both parties to secure prompt and fair disposition of grievances, to eliminate interruption of work and interference with the efficient operation of the Company's business and to maintain fair wages, hours and working conditions for employees within the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE II
RECOGNITIONAND UNION SECURITY
2:01 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent with respect to wages, hours of work and other working conditions, for the Company’s hourly- rated employees save and except those employees excluded in Article III.
2:02 The word “employee” or “employees” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean any or all of the employees, as the case may be, in the bargaining unit as defined in section 2:01 unlessthe context otherwise provides.
2:03 Where the masculine pronoun is used it shall include and refer to the feminine pronoun.
2:04 The Company agrees to deduct once per month from the wages payable to each seniority employee an amount equivalent to the Union dues as may be specified in writing by the South Western Ontario Joint Board, and to remit such deductions to the Financial Secretary of the South Western Ontario Joint Board of the International Union prior to the end of the month in which the deduction is made.
The first deduction will be made from the wages payable to each employee after the completion of the first sixty (60) calendar days of his probationary period. This deduction, which will be credited by the Union as the employee’s Union Initiation Fee, will be remitted to the
6
Joint Board at the same time as the first regular monthly dues.
Regular monthly deductions will commence in the first calendar month following completion of the probationary period.
Should an employee be terminated for any reason prior to the completion of his probationary period, any deduction made under this section shall be returned to the employee.
2:05 The Company shall, at the time of making the said remittance, supply a statement showing the name of each employee from whose pay such deduction has been made. A copy of this statement will be left in the Union's plant mailbox.
ARTICLE III EXCLUSIONS
3:01 The term “employee” as used in this agreement includes all employees of the Company with the exception of foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, office staff, guards, technicians, technical control centre staff and field service staff.
ARTICLE IV
RESERVATION OF COMPANY RIGHTS
4:01 The Union acknowledges that it is the right of the
Company to :
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
(b)	Hire, promote, demote, transfer, suspend, discipline, or discharge for proper cause, any employee subject to the right of the employee to submit a grievance.
(c)	Operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its obligations and to make and alter, from time to time, rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of the Agreement.
7
(d)	Determine the number and location of plants, the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, types and locations of machines and tools to be used, process of manufacturing and designing of its products, and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced.
4:02 Employees outside of the bargaining unit shall not perform the physical or manual work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except where such work is for the purpose of instruction, inspection, investigation, experimentation or development.
4:03 The Union recognizes the Company practice of having outside contractors perform work in or about the plant. The Company will, however, maintain its policy of not using outside contractors to replace bargaining unit employees unless it is deemed by the Company to be essential.
4:04 The above functions shall be exercised in a manner consistent with and subject to the other provisions of the Agreement.
ARTICLE V
NONDISCRIMINATIONand CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
Nondiscrimination
5:01 There shall be no discrimination against any employee for reason of age, race, creed, colour, sex, marital status, handicap as defined in the Ontario Human Rights Code - 1981, or membership in any organization in accordance with the applicable laws of the Province of Ontario.
Conditions of Employment 5:02
(a)	Each and every employee has the responsibility to adhere to all plant safety rules as a condition of employment.
8
(b)	Each and every employee has a responsibility to attend work on a regular basis as a condition of continued employment.
(c)	After a period of twelve (12) calendar months from the last date disciplinary action was issued for attendance problems and where the employee has corrected his attendance, all such references to the disciplinary action taken will be expunged from the employee's record.
ARTICLE VI
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
6:01 The Union agrees that there shall be no strikes, work stoppages, walkouts or other actions which would stop or interfere with production.
6:02	The Company agrees that there shall be no lock-
out of employees.
ARTICLE VII UNION ACTIVITIES
7:01 Members of the Union shall not, on Company time, conduct Union activities, except as expressly provided in this Agreement, nor shall Union meetings of any kind be held at any time on Company premises without the consent of the Company.
7:02 Union bulletins and notices, when approved by the Company, may be posted on bulletin boards provided by the Company.
7:03 The Union shall not distribute or present pamphlets, circulars, or petitions, on Company premisesdur-ing working hours without the approval cf the Employee Relations representative.
9
ARTICLE VIII REPRESENTATION
8:01 The Company shall recognize a UNION COMMITTEE consisting of five (5) members, who shall also serve as the Negotiating Committee. In the event of a lay-off the Committee Members shall have top seniority provided there is work available which they are qualified and willing to do at the established rate of wages for such work. The Union shall notify the Company, in writing, of the names of the Union Committee members and of the names and effective date of changes in the Union Committee.
8:02
(a)	The President of the Local Union shall upon his request, and subject to the limitations of 8:02 (b) and (c), be placed by the Company on Day Schedule and be paid the Day Schedule rate for his classification.
(b)
In order to be on Day Schedule or to be placed on Day Schedule, the President must occupy any one of the following classifications:
Forming Dept.:
FabricationA: Fabrication B:
FabricationC:
Maintenance:
Materials
Distribution:
Day Binder Mixer
Day Bushing Heat Control
Utility Cleaner
Any Classification
Winder - Fabrication B
Milled Fiber Operation
Any ReinforcingMat classification
when these classificationsare on
‘M’, ‘S’, or'T’ shift schedules
Any classificationexcept Winder/
Checker
Any classificationexcept Continuous Shift Mechanic and Continuous Shift Electrician
Storeskeeper
(c) If the President requests to be placed on Day
10
Schedule and he does not occupy one of the classifications noted in (b) above, the granting of his request will be delayed until he transfers into one of the classifications noted in (b) through the provisions of Article XII and Article XVI.
8:03 The Company shall recognize a steward body to be allocated to a department or departments as follows: Forming Department: 1 Steward per shift. This Steward will also represent the Forming Continuous Shift Maintenance employees.
(b)	Fabrication ‘ A Department: 1 Steward per shift to a maximum of four in the department. These Stewards will also represent the Fabrication ‘A’Continuous Shift Maintenanceemployees.
(c)	Fabrication 'B’ Department: 1 Steward per shift in Reinforcing Mat and 1 Steward per shift in Roving. The Roving Steward will also represent other Fabrication's’ operations. These Stewards will also represent the Fabrication ‘B’ Continuous Shift Maintenanceemployees.
(d)	Fabrication ‘C’ Department: 1 Steward per shift,
(e)	Materials Distribution Department: 1 Steward.
(f)	Maintenance Mechanical Department: 1 Steward to represent Day Schedule employees.
(g)	Maintenance Electrical Department: 1 Steward to represent Electricians.
8:04 Where a new Department is put into operation or one of the current Departments is changed, the matter of changes in the Steward representation shall be the subject of discussion between the parties and changes made, provided agreement is reached.
8:05 In the event a Steward is transferred to a Department other than the Department he represents, he may continue as a Steward for the Department he is leaving for not more than thirty (30) calendar days or until a new Steward is selected, whichever is shorter.
8:06 The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the Stewards and the Department each
11
Steward represents, and of the names and effective dates of any changes of Stewards.
8:07	Employees shall not be eligible to serve as mem-
bers of the Local Union Committee or as Stewards until they have been employed for a period of one (1) year.
8:08 Committeemen and Stewards, as well as other employees, have their regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and shall not leave their regular duties or their work area without first obtaining the permission of their foremen or supervisor. They shall also not enter another work area without first obtaining the permission of that area's foreman or supervisor. Upon completing their business in another area, they shall check out of the area through the area's foreman or supervisor. The provisions of this section shall also apply to International Union Representatives.
8:09 Committeemen or Stewards shall not absent themselves from their regular duties for unreasonable lengths of time to attend to matters pertaining to the Agreement. In accordance with this understanding, the Company shall compensate committeemen or Stewards at their regular rates of pay, for time spent during their working hours on business which requires their attention under the provisions of the Agreement.
8:10 On the occasions when the Local Union Committee meets with the Company or Company representatives, for the purpose of negotiating a renewal of the Collective Agreement, the Company shall reimburse the Committee Members their normal earnings to a maximum of twelve (12) hours in any twenty-four hour period, should the deliberations between the parties require said members to be off work for a complete shift during the twenty-four hour period adjacent to the meeting.
8:11 At any meeting between the Company and the Local Union Committee, such committee shall be entitled to have present a representativeor representatives of the South Western Ontario Joint Board.
8:12 If an employee is called into any office for the purpose of formal discipline, or for a personal or fact finding discussion that may lead directly to discipline, the
12
employee may request a Union Committee member, preferably a Union Steward, and such request will be granted.
(a)	The employee will be informed of the purpose of such discussion, including the possibility of subsequent disciplinary action.
(b)	If the employee declines such representation the employee must confirm his decision in writing.
ARTICLE IX
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9:01 It is the desire cf the parties that complaints cf employees be adjusted as quickly as possible. If an employee has any complaint or question he wishes to discuss with the Company, he shall first take it up with his immediate Foreman who will attempt to solve the problem. It is understood that the Foreman's solution shall not be considered to be precedent setting.
9:02 It shall be optional to the Company to decline to consider any grievance, the alleged circumstance of which occurred more than fourteen (14) calendar days (excluding recognized holidays and vacations) prior to its presentation.
9:03 The following grievance procedure steps shall apply. For the purpose of this Article the term "working day" is defined as a day on which all parties concerned are scheduled to work.
Step 1:	An employee who believes he has a grievance
shall first present it to his Steward, in writing, on the forms supplied by the Union. The Steward and the Grievor shall present the grievance to the Grievor’s Foreman.
Within three (3) working days after the date the grievance was received, the Department Manager or his designate shall hold a meeting with the Foreman, the Grievor and his Steward. Within three (3) working days after the date of the hearing, the Department Manager or his 'designate shall give his decision in writing.
13
Step 2:	If the decision of the Department Manager or
his designate is not satisfactory, an appeal may be lodged by the Union Committee with the Employee Relations Manager or his designate within five (5) working days afterthe date the decision was received.
Within ten (10) working days after the date the appeal was received, the Employee Relations Manager or his designate shall arrange a meeting date to discuss the grievance between Management representatives, the Union Committee and the employee's Steward. Within five (5) working days after the date of the meeting, the Company shall give its decision in writing.
Step 3:	If the Company's decision is not satisfactory,
the Union may, by written notice within thirty (30) calendar days after the date the Company's decision was received, advise the Company of its intent to proceed to arbitration. In said written notice, the Union shall propose its nominees to act as sole arbitrator to hear the grievance.
Should the Union's nominees be unacceptable, the Company shall propose alternate names. If the parties cannot agree on the selection of an arbitrator within fifteen (15) calendar days after the date the Union's written notice was received, either party may request the Ontario Minister of Labour to appoint one. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties.
9:04 The time limits specified in the foregoing steps of the grievance procedure may be extended by mutual agreement using the forms providedfor this purpose.
9:05 No grievance may be submitted to an arbitrator (other than a policy grievance or a grievance alleging improper discharge) which has not been properly carried through all previous stages of the grievance procedure, and no person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has taken part in an attempt to settle the grievance. The expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared jointly by the Company and the Union.
9:06 In the event a grievance is referred to an arbitrator for arbitration, the arbitrator shall not alter, add to, sub tract from, modify or amend any part of the Agreement.
14
9:07 At any stage of the grievance procedure, including arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned and any witnesses. All reasonable arrangements shall be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the Plant to view disputed operations or to confer with necessary witnesses.
9:08 A policy grievance arising directly between the Company and the Union may be submitted by either party at Step 2 and failing its satisfactory disposition may then be referred to an arbitrator as provided in this Article.
9:09 (a) A discharged employee shall be allowed to confer with a Committee member before leaving Company premises and he may present a grievance, in writing, to his Committeeman. The Committeeman may then or within five (5) calendar days after the day of discharge (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday, recognized holidays, or vacations) present such grievance to the Employee Relations Manager or his designate. The grievance shall then be processed in accordance with the procedure outlined in Step 2 of the grievance procedure except that Management shall give its decision in writing within three (3) calendar days (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday, recognized holidays or vacations) after the day the meeting was held to discuss the employee's discharge.
(b) The discharge of an employee who has acquired seniority rights may be settled under the grievance or arbitration procedure by:
(i)	Confirming Management's action in dismissing the employee.
(ii)	Reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost.
(iii)	By any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable.
9:10 Except as provided in section 9:04, any grievance not answered within the time limits defined in this Article shall be considered settled in favour of the Grievor or withdrawn by the Union.
15
ARTICLE X MEETINGS
10;01 The Negotiating committee shall meetwiththe Company, as provided in Article XXXIII for the purpose of negotiating amendments to or modifications of any provision of the Agreement.
10:02 The Union Committee shall meet with the Company on matters concerning the administrationof the Agreement, and to negotiate amendments to, or modifications of any provision of the agreement. Any amendments or modificationswill be suitably posted for 30 calendar days.
10:03 The Union Committee shall be entitled to have a representative or representatives of the International Union present at any meeting with the Company.
10:04 Employees at one plant location shall not attend Union Committee - Company meetings at another plant location either as an International Union representative or in any other capacity.
10:05 Meetings between the parties shall be held when mutually agreed upon. The party requesting the meeting shall supply the other party with an agenda, listing the matters to be discussed, at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the day on which the meeting is requested.
ARTICLE XI SENIORITY
11:01 During the first one hundred and twenty (120) calendar days of employment, an employee shall be considered to be on probation. However, if the employee is absent during this period, then the probationary period shall be extended by the number of calendar days required to make up the missed shifts. He shall acquire seniority after completing the probationary period, provided such period does not exceed five (5) consecutive months. His seniority date shall be backdated to his most recent hiring date.
16
11:02 A probationary employee who completes intermittent employment to the extent of one hundred and twenty (120) calendar days within a period of seven (7) consecutive months shall be considered to have completed his. probationary period and shall acquire seniority. His seniority date shall be back-dated to his most recent hiring date.
11:03 The dismissal of a probationary employee shall be at the sole discretion of the Company and shall be deemed to be for just cause. Upon request by a member of the Union Committee, the Company shall supply the reason(s) for the dismissal of a probationary employee.
11:04 The seniority of an employee shall cease and his employment shall terminate for any of the following reasons:
(i)	When an employee voluntarily terminates his employment in writing with the Company.
(ii)	When an employee terminates his employment verbally to his foreman and does not reverse his decision at least two (2) hours prior to the start of his next regularly scheduled shift.
(iii)	When an employee is discharged and not reinstated, such discharge shall take place in the presence of a Local Union Committee Member, or a Steward if a Committee Member is not available.
(iv)	When an employee is laid off and does not acknowledge the Company’s recall notice as specified in Article XV of the Agreement.
(v)	When an employee is absent from work for three (3) or more consecutive working days without notifying the Company with a satisfactory explanation.
(vi)	When an employee is laid off for eighteen (18) consecutive calendar months without being recalled to work within this period.
(vii)	When an employee is retired under the Company Pension Plan.
11:05 (a) Seniority shall be allotted to employees on a departmental basis as follows:
17
(j) Forming Department-to includeclassifications,
Furnace Operator Binder Mixer Batch House Operator Utility Operator-Forming Bushing Heat Control Man Bushing Operator Yarn Checker-Forming Winder-Forming Wet Chop Operator/Winder Service Attendant-Forming Reconditioner-Forming End Finder
Utility Cleaner-Forming*
Production Operator*
(jj) FabricationA Department- to includeclassifications,
Packer Textiles Twist and Ply Operator Machine Cleaner*
Production Operator*
Bobbin Reconditioner*
(iii)	Fabrication B Department- to includeclassifications,
ReinforcingMat Machine Operator
Roll-Up Operator-ReinforcingMat
Service Attendant-Fabrication
Winder-Fabrication B
Creel Operator-ReinforcingMat
Inspector-ReinforcingMat
Slitter
Milled Fiber Operator Fabrication's’ Utility Cleaner
(iv)	FabricationC Department- to includeclassifications,
Mixer
Packer-Textiles Winder Checker Twist and Ply Operator Splicer-FabricationC Creel Operator Set-up
18
Miscellaneous Textile Operator Multiple Winder Operator Production Operator*
Machine Cleaner*
Bobbin Reconditioner*
Sweeper*
(v)	Maintenance Department - to include classifications,
Maintenance Electrician Maintenance Mechanic Carpenter-Painter Tool Crib Attendant Maintenance Utility Material Handler-Batch House*
Janitor*
General Labour*
(vi)	Materials Distribution Department - to include classification,
Storeskeeper
The Job Classifications indicated by an asterisk (*) are considered as not requiring training.
11:05 (b) An employee selected by the Company to participate in a Maintenance Mechanic or Electrician Apprenticeship program shall acquire and commence classification seniority within the Maintenance Department on the date he begins the program.
A Maintenance Department employee who is affected by a reduction in the work force may exercise his seniority (as defined in 11:01 above) in accordance with Article XIII of the Agreement.
11:06 The allocation of new classifications to existing Departments or to new Departments shall be based on operational relationships. If the Local Union considers the operational relationships inappropriate, this matter may be the subject of a grievance to be submitted at the final step of the Grievance Procedure.
11:07 Copies of Seniority Lists shall be revised and posted in a suitable place every three (3) months. Copies of all Seniority Lists shall be provided to Union
19
Committee members and the International Union office.
11:08 Temporary changes or adjustments of the seniority provisions of the Agreement may be required during shutdowns occasioned by other major repairs (not referred to in 11:09). In these instances any proposed changes shall be discussed between the Company and the Union and be subject to their agreement.
11:09 The parties agree that during shutdowns occasioned by furnace rebuilds/repairs/modifications, the following temporary changes to seniority provisions are necessary and desirable:
(a)	Employees on the Seniority Lists affected by the shutdown will be entitled to exercise their rights under 13:01 (a), (b), (c), and (d).
(b)	Having completed 11:09(a), the employees identified for temporary layoff will be utilized as a rebuild/repair/modification crew, as required by the Company, and shall retain seniority on their individual seniority lists during the period of rebuild/repair/modification. Employees retained must be able to perform the work required.
(c)	Employees utilized in 11:09(b) shall retain the basic hourly rate of pay of their regular job classification during the period of rebuild/repair/modification.
(d)	(i) Employees utilized in 11:09(b) shall work during the required period on an appropriate shift schedule and be paid any shift premiums and weekend continuous shift premiums which may be applicable.
(ii)	Employees identified in 11:09(b) who are not required for a rebuild/repair/modification crew, or those whose rebuild/repair/modification work has been completed, shall be placed on temporary layoff until the rebuild/repair/modification work has been fully completed and production resumed. The temporary layoffs will be in accordance with 11:09(e) time limits.
(e)	The period of temporary layoff should not normally exceed twenty one (21) calendar days, the following excepted:
20
(i)	Thirty five (35) calendar days for a twenty (20) bushingfurnace abnormal rebuild/modification.
(ii)	Forty two (42) calendar days for greater than a twenty (20) bushing furnace normal rebuild.
(iii)	Forty nine (49) calendar days for greater than a twenty (20) bushing furnace abnormal rebuild/repair/modification.
(f)	(i) Employees who exercise their rights under 13:01 (a), (b), (c), and (d) (as outlined in 11:09(a) above) shall return to their previous classification and shift (providing a labour adjustment associated with a product mix change was not announced prior to the shutdown) at the end of the shutdown in a manner that provides for maximum efficiency.
(ii) During the period of temporary layoff, the employees affected shall retain seniority on their individual seniority list and be recalled to their former job classifications and shift (providing a labour adjustment associated with a product mix change was not announced prior to the shutdown) in a manner that provides maximum efficiency for return to normal production. All benefits for which an employee is eligible shall be maintained during the period of temporary layoff except Weekly Indemnity.
(g)	Upon request, certain employees may be allowed to take all or a portion of their annual vacation entitlement (in units of one (1)week periods only) during the period of the rebuild/repair/modification. The Company reserves the right to refuse or restrictthis privilege to any employee or group of employees whose absence could, in the Company's opinion, impair general efficiency.
11:10
(a)	The names of student employees, hired on a temporary basis, shall be placed on a separate Seniority List to be attached to the Plant Seniority Lists.
(b)	In the event of a reduction in the work force as described in Article XIII of the Agreement, student employees whose names appear on the separate
21
student Seniority List will be terminated before any other employee is displaced.
(c)	On completion of their assignments, students will be terminated. However, a student employee may request that he be retained in employment, and if employment is granted by the Company his seniority will be back-dated to his most recent hiring date and his name will be placed on the Seniority List for the Department in which he is retained. At the same time he will become eligible to participate in the Plans enumerated in Articles XXX and XXXI of this Agreement.
(d)	The experience acquired while employed as a student shall not be considered in assessing eligibility for transfers, promotions, job postings and/or reduction in the workforce.
11:11 It is the Company's intention in any given year to
employ students from April 15th to September 15th only.
ARTICLE XII
TRANSFERS AND PROMOTIONS
Where there is a simultaneous requirement to implement Article Xll-Transfers and Promotions, and Article XIII -Reduction in Work Force, all labour moves required under Article XII will be planned before Article XIII is put into effect.
12:00 The experience of rehired employees acquired while in the previous employ of the Company shall not be considered in assessing their eligibility for Transfers, Promotions, or Job Postings.
12:01 A Departmental Move List(DML) will be maintained by the Employees Relations Department to allow an employee to record in writing, classificationswithin his own Seniority List to which he wishes to transfer and/or a shift transfer within his own classificationshould a vacancy occur. If the Company's operation would be adversely affected, the request for shift transfer may be denied. Such employee(s) are encouraged to record only those
22
classifications to which they would transfer if a vacancy occurred.
It is the individual’s responsibility to place his name on the DML, and such name will be retained on the list for twelve (12) months.
Only those names on the DML will be considered for transfer.
12:02 In dealing with promotions, upgradings, or the transfer of employees within a Department, the following procedures shall apply:
(a)	Employees having their names on the DML for shift transfer within his classification shall be selected first to fill the opening in order of seniority prior to the application of subsections(b), (c) and/or (d).
(b)	For all classifications except Furnace Operator, Binder Mixer, and Batch House Operator.
(i)	Employees on the DML with sufficient experience shall be selected first to fill the openings in order of seniority.
(ii)	If a sufficient number of employees is not available for the openings to be filled through the application of sub section (i), then other employees on the DML with direct or related experience applicable to the openings, shall be selected on a seniority basis provided they have the necessary qualifications, ability and physical fitness to perform the work required.
(iii)	If a sufficient number of employees is not available for the openings to be filled through the application of sub sections (i) and (ii), then the employees who have recorded a request for transfer on the Voluntary Transfer List as provided in section 12:05 shall be transferred subject to the provisionsof section 12:03, to the lowest classification on the applicable Seniority List.
(c)	For transfers to Furnace Operator, Binder Mixer, or Batch House Operator, the following procedures shall apply:
23
(i)	Employees on the DML with sufficient experience who have not refused a relief assignment to these classifications within the previous twelve (12) months shall be selected first to fill the openings in order of seniority.
An employee who previously refused a relief assignment as described above, shall be exempted from the above restriction, effective on the date he acknowledges in writing to the Company his acceptance of an offer of a subsequent assignment.
No restriction shall be imposed if an employee refused a relief assignment to accept another relief assignment.
(ii)	If a sufficient number of employees is not available for the openings to be filled through the application of subsection (i), then other employees on the DML with sufficient experience shall be selected to fill the openings in order of seniority.
(iii)	Notwithstanding the previous references in 12:01 and 12:02 re transfers within a Department, employees outside the Department with sufficient experience may be solicited to fill the openings in order of seniority.
(iv)	If a sufficient number of employees is not available for the openings to be filled through the application of subsections (i), (ii) and (iii), then other employees on the DML with direct or related experience applicable to the openings, shall be selected on a seniority basis provided they have the necessary qualifications, ability and physical fitness to perform the work required.
(v)	If a sufficient number of employees is not available for the openings to be filled through the application of subsections (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv), then employees who have recorded a requestfor transfer on the Voluntary Transfer List as provided in section 12:05 shall be transferred, subject to the provisions of section 12:03.
(d)	When possible, the DML will be used to offer vaca-24
tion relief assignments within a department after employees with sufficient experience on the shift requiring the relief have been canvassed. If the DML is used, and the senior employee on the DML who requests the relief assignments is on another shift, he may transfer shifts only if an employee on the shift requiring the relief and in the same classification as the potential relief employee volunteers to transfer shifts.
(e)	An employee will normally only be allowed to perform vacation relief assignments for one classification.
12:03 Openings which cannot be filled under the provisions of section 12:02 may be filled by selecting employees whose names are recorded on the Voluntary Transfer List as provided in section 12:05 on the following basis:
(a)	Employees with sufficient experience shall be selected first to fill the openings in order of seniority.
(b)	If a sufficient number of employees is not available for the openings to be filled through the application of subsection (a), then employees with direct or related experience applicable to the openings shall be selected on a seniority basis provided they have the necessary qualifications, ability and physical fitness to perform the work required.
(c)	If a sufficient number of employees is not available for the openings to be filled through the application of subsections (a) and (b), then employees shall be selected on a seniority basis for training provided they have the necessary qualifications, ability and physical fitness to perform the work required.
12:04 Openings which cannot be filled through the application of sections 12:01, 12:02, and 12:03 may be filled by other means, including hiring.
12:05 Voluntary Transfer List (VTL)
(a)	An employee with four (4) or more years of seniority may record in writing a request for voluntary transfer to any Seniority Lists provided there is not a more
25
senior non-restricted employee on lay-off at the time.
(b)	Such written request shall be retained in the Employee Relations Department for a period of twelve (12) months on a record known as the Voluntary Transfer List.
(c)	An employee recalled from lay-off to a position which requires training shall be ineligible to transfer under the Voluntary Transfer List to another position requiring training for a period of six (6) months.
(d)	An employee who confirms his intent to transfer under the Voluntary Transfer List and who reverses his decision shall be ineligible to place his name on the Voluntary Transfer List for six (6) months except for the following situations:
(i)	He reverses his decision prior to moving into the new position in orderto exercise a DML move.
(ii)	He reverses his decision prior to the transfer of his seniority for acceptable medical reasons.
(iii)	In the judgement of the Company he is unable to satisfactorily perform the job.
(e)	If an employee transfers under the provisions of section 12:03, he shall be ineligible to request a further transfer by these means for a period of six (6) months from the date his seniority is credited to the Departmental List to which he is transferred.
(f)	A continuous shift employee who transfers via the VTL to a classification in which there is more than one shift schedule in effect, may select a continuous shift schedule provided his seniority so allows.
(g)	The above notwithstanding, an employee transferred to a new Seniority List underthe provisionsof section 12:03 who is subsequently displaced from this Seniority List through the application of Article XIII, Reduction in Work Force, may be allowed to immediately re-enter his name on the Voluntary Transfer List.
(h)	As a result of any initial VTL transfer, there can be
26
two (2) subsequent VTL moves. If the Company's operation would be adversely affected, a restriction may be applied to allow no more than three (3) employees to transfer by means of the provisions of the VTL, from any one (1) department during a labour adjustment.
12:06
(a)	An employee transferred from one Seniority List to another, through the application of this Article, shall retain his seniority on his former Seniority List for a period of seventy-two (72) worked hours in the new classification. On the expiry of this period, his seniority shall be credited to the Departmental List to which he is transferred, unless this period is extended by mutual agreement between the parties.
For any VTL transfer in which an employee opts to return to his former classification before his seniority transfers, any experience acquired, shall not be considered for future transfers, promotions, or a reduction in workforce.
(b)	The above notwithstanding, an employee transferring to a classification in which he is trained (excluding * jobs he has not previously occupied) through the application of this Article, shall have his seniority transferred to his new Departmental List immediately. If the employee requests to review the contemplated new job prior to making his decision to transfer, he will be given a maximum of one (1) hour to review it with supervision of the new classification.
12:07	When an employee's state of health is such that
he can no longer perform his normal duties satisfactorily, and it is recommended in writing by his Doctor (and verified by the Company Doctor) that he be transferred from his normal job for health reasons, the following procedure shall apply:
(a)	The restricted employee shall be displaced from his position and the resulting vacancy filled through the application of subsections 12:02(b) (i), (ii) and (iii), and (c) (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv).
27
(b)	The restricted employee will be allowed to displace the most junior employee in the plant, seniority allowing, in a classification in which he has been medically cleared by his Doctor, and verified by the Company Doctor, to perform the work required. Training will be provided if required.
The employee displaced in (b) above shall be allowed to exercise his rights underthe provisions of Article 13. Any further employees affected by the application of this subsection shall also be allowed to exercise their rights under the provisions of Article XIII.
(d)	If the restricted employee cannot be placed through the application ‘of this section, then he shall be placed on the Inactive Seniority List (provided he is not receiving wages from other employment or refuses rehabilitative training as offered by the Workers' Compensation Board), and the Company shall advise him of any future openings which he could perform.
(e)	An employee having at least three (3)years' seniority who cannot be assigned to another job through the application of sub-sections (a), (b), or (c), and who is ineligible for the Inactive Seniority List, may be placed on lay-off.
12:08
(a)	Arr employee temporarily assigned to another job (including assignment due to a temporary disability covered by Worker’s Compensation) shall receive the rate of job to which he is transferred or the rate of the job from which he is moved, whichever is the higher.
A temporary assignment shall not exceed forty (40) calendar days (excluding vacations and recognized holidays) unless extended by mutual agreement between the parties.
(b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) an employee, if transferred for any of the following reasons, shall receive the current rate of pay for the
28
job to which he is transferred:
(i)	Transferred at his own request.
(ii)	Transferred in lieu of lay-off.
(iii)	Transferred on a Doctor's recommendation.
12:09 Should an opening occur on a shift, day schedule employees will be given first consideration in order of seniority, provided the efficiency of the operation is not adversely affected.
12:10 An employee transferred to a position outside of the Bargaining Unit shall accumulate seniority for a period of six (6) months. If he is returned to the Bargaining Unit by the Company due to a reduction of work, or other reasons, within that period, he shall be returned to his former classification provided his seniority so allows and he pays Union Dues retroactive to the date he left the Bargaining Unit.
Such an employee shall lose all seniority rights after the expiration of the six month period.
12:11
I (a) An employee off work due to sick leave, leave of absence, Worker's Compensation, or vacation shall be returned to his former classification upon his return to work provided he can continue to perform the work required, or he may exercise a move to another classification which he had previously requested on the DML and for which he would have been selected had he been at work.
The above notwithstanding, any employee absent from work due to sickness and/or accident for a period in excess of six (6) months, or when it is known to the Company that the employee will be absent for a period in excess of six (6) months shall have his seniority transferred from his Departmental Seniority List to the Inactive Seniority List in accordance with the provisionsof 12:07 (d).
(b) Upon the return to work of an employee whose name is on the Inactive Seniority List, the following procedure shall apply:
29
(i)	Provided the employee returns to work within three (3) years he shall be entitled to displace the most junior employee within his former classification provided his seniority so allows and he is physically able to perform the work required.
(ii)	If the employee returns after a three (3) year absence, then he shall be entitled to displace the most junior employee within his former classification provided his seniority so allows and he can continue to perform the work required.
(iii)	If the employee cannot be placed through the application of sub-sections (i) and (ii), then the employee shall be entitled to displace the most junior employee in his former Department provided his seniority so allows and he is physically able to perform the work required.
(iv)	If the employee cannot be placed through the application of sub-sections (i), (ii), or (iii), then he shall fill an existing Plant vacancy provided he is physically able to perform the work required.
(v)	If the employee cannot be placed through the application of sub-sections (i), (ii), (iii), or (iv), then the employee shall be entitled to displace the most junior employee in the Plant (Maintenance skilled classifications excepted), provided his seniority so allows and he is physically able to perform the work required.
(c)	The seniority of the employee who accepts an assignment to relieve another employee who is off work due to sick leave or leave of absence or to relieve employees who are on vacation, shall not be transferred, and he shall be returned to his former classification upon completion of the assignment.
(d)	The provisions of this section are not applicable when the employees referredto in sub-sections (a), (b), and (c) above are affected by a lay-off or a reduction in the workforce duringthe period.
12:12 There shall be no transfer of employees
between the Fiberglas Textile Plant and the Fiberglas
30
Chemical Plant through the application of any provision of this Agreement.
12:13 Copies of DML and VTL transfer forms will be deposited in the Union supplied mailbox.
12:14 Copies of temporary transfer forms for sickness relief, the duration of which is expected to exceed fifteen (15) calendar days, will be deposited in the Union supplied mailbox.
ARTICLE XIII
REDUCTION IN WORK FORCE
13:01 When circumstances require a reduction in the number of employees within a Department, the following procedure shall apply:
(a)	(i) An employee with the least amount of seniority in the classification affected shall displace the most junior employee in another classification within the same Seniority List, provided his seniority so allows and he can continue to perform the work required.
(ii) If the reduction results in the classification changing from Continuous Shift to a nonContinuous Shift, then senior employees being retained in the classification may, in order of seniority, be allowed to exercise any “bump” that the junior employee(s) could have exercised under 13:01 (a) (i) or 13:01 (d), provided the senior employee is capable of continuing to perform the work required.
(b)	An employee so displaced shall in turn displace the most junior employee in another classification within the same Seniority List, provided his seniority so allows and he can continue to perform the work required.
(c)	Notwithstanding (a) and (b) above, an employee displaced from a day job (“E” shift) through the provisions of this Article, shall have the following options:
To displace the most junior employee on any 31
Seniority List on a day job (“E shift) not requiring training (*) provided his seniority so allows.
OR
To displace the most junior employee in any classification on any Seniority List (Maintenance skilled classifications excepted), provided his seniority so allows and he can continue to perform the work required.
(d)	An employee displaced from a Departmental Seniority List, having previously exhausted all possible options within his own Seniority List as detailed in (a) and (b) of this section, shall be entitled to displace the most junior employee in any classification on any Seniority List (Maintenance skilled classifications excepted), provided his seniority so allows and he can continue to perform the work required. If more than one shift schedule is in effect in the classification, said employee may select his schedule provided his seniority so allows.
(e)	An employee displaced from a Departmental Seniority List, having previously exhausted all possible options as detailed in (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section shall be entitled to displace the most junior employee in any of the Seniority Lists (Maintenance skilled classifications excepted) provided his seniority so allows and he has the physical fitness to perform the work required and shall be trained to perform such work.
(f)	An employee entering another Department through the provisions of this Article, shall have his seniority transferred as of the date of the transfer.
(g)	An employee displaced from his Department through the application of this Article, shall not transfer to another Department under the provisions of Article Xll-Transfers and Promotionswhile a more senior non-restricted employee is on lay-off.
32
13:02 In the event a reduction of work results in a layoff, probationary employees shall be the first to be laid Off.
13:03 Employees laid off shall for the purpose of recall, be provided with a form by the Employee Relations Department on which they shall indicate the jobs they can reasonably perform.
13:04 Employees who have indicated the jobs they can reasonably perform, on a form provided by the Employee Relations Department, shall under certain circumstances be allowed to place themselves on lay-off.
13:05 In the event of lay-off for reasons other than those listed in Article XIX of the Agreement section 19:01
(a), (b), (c), and (d), the Company shall give at least seven (7) calendar days notice to the employees affected.
13:06 Whenever two (2) job classifications are combined into a single new classification, any employee who has been classified in either job during the previous five (5) years shall be allowed to displace a more junior employee in the new classification if he is affected by a reduction in the work force.
13:07 On occasions that scheduled maintenance of electrical equipment necessitates a power outage, employees affected shall be laid off for a period not in excess of one-half of their regular shift and shall not be eligible to displace other employees under the provisions of this Article.
13:08 In the event of a total plant closure, the Company agrees to pay a severance payment for all employees (except those on the Inactive Seniority List) at the rate of one (1) weeks regular pay per year of service to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks of pay. Employees with more than twenty-six (26) years of service shall receive an additional one-half (1/2) weeks pay for each year of service beyond twenty-six (26) (partial years of service will be included in the calculation of total severance pay).
33
ARTICLE XIV DISCONTINUED JOBS
14:01	When a department or operation ceases to func-
tion permanently and jobs are discontinued, any employee affected, if his seniority so allows, shall be entitled to bump to another job provided he has had previous experience on the job and is physically able to continue the work required.
14:02 In the event an employee cannot be placed on a job underthe terms of section 14:01, the employee shall be entitled to displace the most junior employee in any of the Seniority Lists (Maintenance skilled classifications excepted) and shall be trained to perform the work required.
14:03 The question of which Seniority List the employee shall be entitled to displace in, shall be subject to discussion between the Company and the Union Committee, giving the employee preference if practicable. Failing mutual agreement in such instances, the most junior employee of all Seniority Lists (Maintenance skilled classificationsexcepted) shall be displaced.
ARTICLE XV RECALL
When recalling seniority employees from lay-off, they shall be recalled on the basis of plant-wide seniority subject to the following rules:
15:01 An employee due for recall having previously indicated the jobs he can reasonably perform, shall be notified when suitable openings occur, and according to his seniority shall be offered employment at the prevailing rate of wages for the position available. An employee who refuses an offer of employment in any of the jobs he had previously indicated he could reasonably perform will automatically terminate his employment.
15:02 When it is not possible to contact an employee by telephone or by messenger, notice of recall shall be sent by registered mail to the last address recorded by
34
the employee with the Employee Relations Department.
15:03 Employees notified to return to work shall report on the date and time specified in the notice.
15:04 An employee, when notified by registered mail of recall from lay-off shall advise the Employee Relations Department of his intention to return to work within three (3) calendar days of receipt of such notice. His position on the Seniority List shall be maintained for seven (7) calendar days (exclusive of recognized holidays and vacations) from the mailing date of the recall notice. Should the employee not return to work at the expiry of the seven (/(calendar day period, his name shall be deleted from the Seniority List unless he has furnished in writing an explanation satisfactory to the Company outlining why it was impossible for him to comply.
15:05 When required, a junior employee may be recalled before a senior employee for training purposes. The period of training will not exceed six (6) shifts worked. The Union Committee shall be notified in advance of such recalls.
15:06 Nothwithstanding the terms of Article XII, an employee recalled from lay-off to a temporary assignment will not be eligible to enter his name on the D.M.L. orV.T.L.
ARTICLE XVI JOB POSTING
16:01
(a)	Notice of vacancies shall be posted on designated Bulletin Boards for the following occupations:
Day Schedule Occupations.
New Occupations.
Skilled Maintenance Occupations including Apprentices.
All Shipping and Stores Occupations.
Notice of such vacancies shall be posted from 12:00
35
noonto 12:00 noonfor seven (7) calendar days.
(b)	Temporary requirements for sickness or vacation relief in “ E shift classifications not requiring training shall not be posted.
Temporary Job Postings for the purpose of sickness or vacation relief in all other “ E shift classifications shall be restricted to:
(i)	Shift employees in the department where the requirement occurs.
(ii)	If the vacancy is not filled by the application of (i) above, applications will be considered from shift employees in other departments, and from “ E shift employees in classifications not requiring training.
16:02 Notwithstanding the provisions of Article XII, applicants shall be selected to fill such vacancies under the following step system:
(1)	Employees with sufficient experience shall be selected first to fill the openings in order of seniority.
(2)	If a sufficient number of employees is not available for the openings to be filled through the application of step (1), employees shall be selected on a seniority basis for training, provided they have the necessary qualifications, ability, and physical fitness to perform the work required.
(3)	In the event no suitable applications are available, the vacancy shall be filled by other means.
16:03
(a)	An employee selected for a job posted vacancy under the terms of this Article shall retain his seniority on his former Seniority List for a period of-twelve (12) calendar days excluding absences, vacations, or recognized holidays.
(b)	The above notwithstanding, an employee selected for a job posted vacancy for which he is considered trained (excluding * jobs he has not previously occupied) under the terms of this Article shall retain his seniority on his former Seniority List for a period of
36
three (3) working days excluding absences, vacations, or recognized holidays.
16:04
(a)	When an employee is selected for a job posted vacancy, he shall be ineligible to apply for another posted vacancy for a period of six (6) months from the date of acceptance.
(b)	An employee who accepts a job posted vacancy under this Article and who reverses his decision within the time limits specified in 16:03 (a) and (b) will be restricted from applying for further posted vacancies for a period of three (3) months except for the following situations:
(i)	He reverses his decision prior to moving into the new position in order to exercise a DML move.
(ii)	He reverses his decision prior to the transfer of his seniority for acceptable medical reasons.
(iii)	In the judgement of the Company he is unable to satisfactorily perform the job.
16:05 Notwithstanding the provisions of section 16:04, an employee placed on a job as a result of a posting who is subsequently moved from this job due to the application of the provisions of Article XIII, shall have the option to return to that job if it again becomes vacant within a period of forty (40) calendar days (excluding vacations and recognized holidays) from the date he was moved off that job. Should the employee exercise this option, the vacancy shall not be posted.
16:06 An employee restricted by the above mentioned six (6) month period shall be considered released from this obligation should any of the following circumstances occur during the six (6) month period.
(a)	The elimination of the operation or job.
(bj The operation or job changes from a day schedule to a shift schedule.
(c)	The employee is moved off the job due to the application of the provisions of Article XIII.
37
16:07 The Company shall not be obligated to post notice of any job the duration of which is less than seven (7) working days, unless extended by mutual agreement between the parties.
ARTICLE XVII
WAGES, HOURS OF WORK,
LUNCH AND REST PERIODS
17:01 Classification and wage rates shown in Appendix "A" of the Agreement, shall remain in effect for the duration of this Agreement, subject to the provisions of section 17:02.
17:02 The Company shall inform the Union of the establishment of new or changed classifications of work and the subsequent revisions to the Appendix. If the Union does not consider the rate proper, a grievance may be lodged at Step 2 of the Grievance procedure in the Agreement. If this matter is appealed to an arbitrator, his jurisdiction shall be confined to confirming the rate, or applying another rate which would be an equitable rate based on the existing rate structure for the various job classifications shown in the Appendix.
17:03 For calculation purposes, the working day shall commence at 7:00 a.m. The working week shall commence Sunday at 7:00 a.m.
17:04 The following are the regular hours of work and work schedules:
(a)	Day Schedule- ‘ E Shift Forty (40) hours per week.
Monday - Friday
7:30 a.m. - 3:30 p.m.
(b)	One Shift Schedule - ‘M’ Shift:
7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
Monday - Friday
(c)	Two (2) Shift Swing Schedule- ‘F’ and ‘G’ Shifts: Monday- Friday7:00 am. - 3:00 p.m.
Monday- Friday3:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m
38
Shifts will rotate each week.
(d)	Tire Cord Alternate Twelve Hour
Two (2) Shift Schedule - ‘H’ and'P’ Shifts:
Tuesday - Thursday 7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. and Friday 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
Tuesday - Thursday 7:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
Shifts will rotate each week.
When a recognized Holiday falls on a normal day off, the day in lieu of the Holiday shall be taken on the 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. shift on either the Friday preceding the Holiday or the Friday following the Holiday.
(e)	Three (3) Shift Swing Schedule - ‘J’, ‘K’, ‘L’ Shifts: Monday- Friday7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
Monday - Friday 3:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m.
Sunday - Thursday 11:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
(Except during a start-up period, when the work week on 'L’ Shift may end at 7:00 a.m. Saturday.)
The weekly shift rotation shall be from days (7-3) to nights (11 -7) to afternoons (3-11).
(f)	Continuous Shift Schedule - ‘A, ‘B’, ‘C’, ‘D’ Shifts:
There shall be two (2) daily shifts of twelve (12) hours each in every twenty-four (24) hour period as follows:
7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
Continuous shift employees shall work three (3) consecutive day shifts followed by three (3)days of rest and three (3) consecutive night shifts followed by three (3) days of rest.
(g)	i) Continuous Shift Day Schedule - Reinforcing Mat ‘S’ and T Shifts
7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.
Three (3) consecutive day shifts, followed by three (3) days of rest.
ii) Continuous Shift Night Schedule - Fabrication ‘B’ Utility Cleaner‘Q’ and ‘R’ Shifts
39
7:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
Three (3) consecutive night shifts, followed by three (3)nights of rest.
17:05 When an employee is transferred from one continuous shift to another continuous shift, the employee may request to work only the number of hours required by the new shift schedule in the pay week of his transfer.
17:06 Normal lunch and rest periods shall be as follows:
(a)	Day Schedule Employees
A twenty (20) minute lunch period at regular pay. A ten (10) minute rest period at regular pay.
(b)	All other Non-ContinuousShift Schedule Employees A thirty (30) minute lunch period at regular pay.
(c)	Continuous Shift Schedule Employees
A thirty (30) minute lunch period at regular pay.
Two (^fifteen (15) minute rest periods at regular pay.
(d)	The normal lunch period for employees assigned to the day schedule shall be from 12:00 noon to 12:20 p.m., except in the Maintenance and Reinforcing Mat Departments where the lunch period may vary according to operating requirements in which case the employees shall be allowed a lunch period as close to the normal period as practicable.
17:07 The Company reserves the right to modify or amend the above mentioned lunch periods to meet any of its production and/or maintenance requirements and agrees that it shall not exercise this right in an arbitrary manner.
17:08 When an employee is required to work overtime for a period of three (3) hours or more, he shall be allowed a fifteen (15) minute rest period within the first hour of the overtime period, provided such overtime assignment necessitates that the employee remain continuously at work.
40
ARTICLE XVIII OVERTIME
18:01 Overtime shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the basic classification rate for the work an employee is required to perform in excess of his normal number of hours per day, or in excess of his normal number of hours per week.
Should an employee transfer from a non-continuous shift schedule to a continuous shift schedule he shall be paid overtime for hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in the week of transfer.
18:02 As far as practicable, opportunities for overtime will be distributed evenly within the same classification. Distribution lists will be posted monthly.
18:03	For non-scheduled emergency overtime, exclud-
ing all twelve (12) hour shift schedules, working employees in the same classification shall first be solicited, following which relief may be obtained from other employees within the Department.
18:04 Should an employee accept an assignment to work overtime and fail to report for his regular duties previous to, or subsequent to this overtime commitment, he shall forfeit his overtime pay for the period he worked unless he has a reason satisfactory to the Company.
18:05 Overtime distribution will be in accordance with the spirit and provisions of the following documents:
(a)	Company Bulletin No. 35/82 headed “Overtime Distribution”dated July 22, 1982.
(b)	Company letter to Union President dated July 27, 1982, with attached documents headed “Overtime Distribution”, and “General Rules and Guidelines”.
(c)	Company Bulletin No. 38/82 headed “Overtime Distribution”, dated July 28, 1982.
(d)	Company memo dated May 6, 1987 headed “Revised Special Arrangements - Overtime Distribution, Maintenance Mechanics and Electricians“.
41
ARTICLE XIX REPORTING FOR WORK AND EMERGENCY CALL-IN
19:01 An employee who has not been told in advance not to report to work, shall be given work for at least one-half the shift for which he reported. If no work is available he shall be paid for one-half the shift for which he reported. This obligation shall not prevail when the employee is prevented from working because of any of the following reasons:
(a)	A breakdown of machinery or equipment.
(b)	A power shortage or failure of power supply.
(c)	Any circumstance beyond the control of the Company.
(d)	An employee's neglect in keeping the Company advised of his current address.
19:02
(a)	An employee requested to report for work apart from his regular shift due to an emergency shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours' pay at his basic hourly rate or time and one-half his basic hourly rate for the hours actually worked, whichever is the greater.
(b)	The above notwithstanding an employee requested to report for work apart from his regular shift, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. due to an emergency, shall be paid a minimum of six (6) hours' pay at his basic hourly rate, or time and one-half his basic hourly rate for the hours actually worked, whichever is the greater.
42
ARTICLE XX SHIFT PREMIUMSAND CONTINUOUS SHIFT PREMIUMS
20:01
(a)	A premium of thirty-four (34) cents per hour shall be paid to a non-continuous shift employee working from 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
(b)	A premium of fifty-one (51) cents per hour shall be paid to a non-continuous shift employee working from 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(c)	A premium of fifty-one (51) cents per hour shall be paid to a continuous shift employee working from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(d)	The applicable shift premium shall be paid to a continuous shift employee for all hours worked on Contract Agreed Holidays, Saturdays and Sundays.
20:02 A continuous shift premium of one-half (1/2) times the basic classification rate shall be paid for each regular hour worked on regular continuous shift schedule between 7:00 a.m. Saturday and 7:00 a.m. Monday. When a recognized holiday falls on a Saturday or a Sunday, this premium will be paid in addition to the applicable premium specified in Article XXVI, Section 26:08
20:03 Shift premiums and the continuous shift premiums shall not be included in an employee's basic classification rate for the purpose of computing overtime pay and pay for holidays not worked.
20:04 Continuous shift employees receiving the continuous shift premium in accordance with section 20:02, shall also be paid the regular shift premium in accordance with section 20:01, but this premium shall not be compounded with any other premium.
43
ARTICLE XXI
NOTIFICATION OF ABSENCE
21:01 An employee unable to report for work shall notify the Company before the commencement of his regular shift on the first day of absence, and the estimated length of absence if it is for more than one shift. An employee who is absent for more than one shift must notify the Company of his intent to return to work one full shift prior to the commencement of his scheduled starting time.
21:02 Such absence shall not be excused unless the employee has a justifiable reason.
ARTICLE XXII ABSENCES
22:01 In the event an employee is absent or does not report for work on time, the Foreman may arrange for a replacement if he considers it necessary.
22:02 An employee who accepts such a replacement assignment shall:
(a)	Have the option of staying over for the balance of the shift, if such becomes necessary.
(b)	Be expected to remain on the job until the scheduled employee reports for work, or until another replacement arranged for or called in by the Foreman reports for work.
22:03 An employee who does not report to work as scheduled, shall be allowed one-half (1/2) hour to report to work or advise the Company when he can report to work. Should an absent employee do neither of these within the one-half hour period allowed, he shall lose his entitlement to work on the shift concerned and the Foreman may arrange replacement if he considers it necessary.
22:04 An employee who agrees to substitute for another employee through a Straight Time Switch, and this arrangement is approved by the Foreman, shall be paid any premium payment to which the employee who was
44
granted time off, was eligible. Overtime assignment hours, however, shall not be considered in any of these calculations.
ARTICLE XXIII LEAVE OF ABSENCE
23:01 General
An employee may request in writing a leave of absence without pay for legitimate reasons. If a leave of absence is granted, seniority shall accumulate. Leave cf absence shall not be unreasonably withheld. An employee who fails to return to work at the expiry of a leave of absence shall be considered to have voluntarily quit unless he is able to give a reason satisfactory to the Company for his failure to return to work. The secretary of the Local Union shall receive a copy of all leaves of absence.
23:02 Pregnancy
(a)	The Company shall grant six (6) months leave of absence, three months cf which may be taken prior to the expected date of birth, to a pregnant employee upon written request.
(b)	Upon receipt of a certificate from a duly qualified medical practitioner, this leave of absence will be extended either before or after the date of birth to a total maximum period of one year.
23:03 Bereavement
Bereavement pay shall be limited to the employee's regular number of hours per day at his basic classification rate, and shall be restricted to those days on which the employee would normally be scheduled to work.
(a)	Upon the death of an employee's spouse, child, or step-child, bereavement pay will be paid for all hours lost in the five (5)consecutive day period following the date of death.
(b)	(i) Upon the death of an employee's parent, stepparent, guardian, brother, sister, parent-in-law, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law, bereavement pay will be
45
paid for all hours lost in the three (3) consecutive day period following the date of death for the purpose of arranging for and/or attending the funeral.
(ii) If the employee does not arrange for and/or attend the funeral, he will be paid for one (1) lost regularly scheduled work day within the three (3) consecutive day period following the date of death.
(c)	Upon the death of an employee's sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparent or grandchild, bereavement pay will be paid for the loss of one (1) regularly scheduled shift to attendthe funeral.
(d)	Should a member of an employee's family die while the employee is on approved compassionate leave of absence to visit that family member, bereavement pay will be paid in accordance with the provisions of this clause.
23:04 International Union Agent
On receipt of a written request from the International Union, an employee who is selected or appointed by the International Union to engage in special International Union activities on a full-time basis (i.e., thirty (30) calendar days or more) shall be granted a leave of absence in writing, without pay for a period not to exceed one (1) year, (subject to extension on written application). Such employee shall accumulate seniority during such absence if he returns to work at the expiration of the leave of absence. Any such request from the International Union shall be submitted to the Company at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the date the leave is to start.
23:05 International Union Conventions/Conferences
The Company shall grant a leave of absence without pay to a delegated Local Union Member to attend International Union conventions and conferences, not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days provided:
(a)	The Company receives sufficient notice.
(b)	Not more than two (2) employees from a department are concerned.
46
(c)	The general efficiency of the Company's operations shall not be adversely affected.
23:06 Local Union Meetings
The Company shall grant a leave of absence without pay to Local Union Committee members for the purpose of attending meetings called by the Local Union provided:
(a)	The Company receives sufficient notice.
(b)	Not more than two (2) employees from a shift within a department are concerned.
(c)	Not more than three (3) employees from a department are concerned.
(d)	The general efficiency of the Company's operations shall not be adversely affected.
23:07 Court Appearances
1(a) In the event an employee is unable to work his regular shift or shifts due to being called for and reporting for jury duty, or due to serving as a Crown Witness, or subpoenaed as a witness in a dispute in which he is not directly involved, the employee shall be paid the difference between the amount he would have earned for working his regular shift(s), and the amount he receives for performing such duty.
(b) In order to qualify for such compensation, the employee shall give forty-eight (48) hours prior notice of such obligation (except in an emergency) and present proper evidence as to the duty performed.
23:08 Vacation Purposes
(a) Upon written request an employee who has completed ten years of service may be allowed up to a maximum of two weeks leave of absence without pay, on one occasion during the five-year period between the 10th and 15th anniversary of his employment, provided the timing of such leave of absence does not adversely affect the Company's operations. Such leave of absence shall be taken
47
outside the Prime Vacation Period and be a continuous extension of his full vacation entitlement.
(b)	Upon written request an employee who has completed fifteen years of service may be allowed up to a maximum of four (4) weeks leave of absence without pay, on one occasion during each subsequent five-year period, provided the timing of such leave of absence does not adversely affect the Company's operations. Such leave of absence shall be taken outside the Prime Vacation Period, and be a continuous extension of his full vacation entitlement.
(c)	Employees affected by shut-down for vacation purposes who request a leave of absence under this section may be allowed to take such leaves of absence as a continuous extension of the balance of their vacation entitlements outside the Prime Vacation Period subject to the conditions outlined in this section.
(d)	All leaves of absence under this section shall be subject to the provisions governing leaves of absence as provided in this Article, shall be limited to a maximum of one employee per Department at any one time, and be included in the maximum number allowed off per Department as specified in section 28:04 of this Agreement.
23:09
(a)	Three (3) additional employees per vacation year (restrictedto a maximum of one (1) employee within a Department at any one time) shall be allowed leaves of absence over and above the maximum allowed off in sections 28:02 and 28:04 of this Agreement.
(b)	Leaves of absence as outlined in 23:09 (a) above may be taken at any time but are subject to the remaining provisions in subsections 23:08 (a) and (b) above.
23:10 If an employee, who has been granted a leave
of absence under section 23:08 or 23:09, subsequently
decides not to take that leave, he shall not exercise his
48
seniority within the remaining time limits as defined in 23:08 (a) and (b) should he re-apply for a leave of absence under the same section as the original request.
23:11 If an individual employee feels that remaining at work in a stressful situation could lead to some unacceptable behaviour, he must explore the problem with supervision and if it cannot be resolved, the employee may leave the premises for the balance of the shift without pay or penalty. If, in the Company’s opinion, this privilege (described in 23:11) is being abused, the employee^) will be subject to discipline.
ARTICLE XXIV INJURY AND DISABILITY
24:01 An employee injured on the job shall be paid for the balance of his shift at his basic classification rate. If as a result of such injury, the employee is sent home or to a hospital, transportation shall be supplied by the Company if necessary.
24:02 Should an employee sustain a major disability while in the employ of the Company, an exception may be made to the seniority provision of this Agreement in favour of such employee by agreement between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE XXV
SAFETY, HEALTH AND SECURITY
25:01 The Company must make reasonable provision for the safety and health of employees during working hours. In addition, the Company must provide the Union information it has knowledge of in respect to existing or potential hazards of chemicals. The Union agrees to assist the Company in maintaining proper observation of all safety and health rules.
25:02 The parties agree to the establishment of a Safety and Health Committee at least one-half of whom shall be members of the bargaining unit to be selected by
49
the Union.
25:03 The patties agree that work refusals will be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act for the province of Ontario - 1980.
25:04 In the event the Company deems it necessary, at any time to inspect an employee's locker, the Company shall arrange for a witness to be present at the time the locker is opened and during the inspection. Said witness shall be a member of the Bargaining Unit and preferably a Union Steward who is at work at the time of the inspection. In the event of an emergency or an abnormal situation however, the Company reserves the right to have present any witness regardless of whether or not the witness is a member of the Bargaining Unit.
25:05
(a)	Safety footwear is mandatory for employees working in the Plant. The Company will reimburse employees up to a maximum of one hundred twenty dollars ($120) per contract year, toward the purchase of safely footwear.
(b)	Should an employee opt to purchase safety footwear from other than Company-designated suppliers, he must provide the original receipt of payment to be eligible for reimbursement.
25:06
(a)	The Company will contribute towards the purchase of prescription safety lenses and frames as follows:
-	Up to a maximum of sixty dollars ($60) for single vision.
-	Up to a maximum of eighty dollars ($80) for bifocals.
(b)	Should an employee opt to purchase safety lenses and frames from other than Company-designated suppliers, he must provide the original receipt of payment to be eligible for reinbursement.
50
ARTICLE XXVI RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
26:01
(a)	The following days are designated as recognized holidays for which an employee shall receive payment in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
New Years Day National Heritage Day'
Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Floater
* In the event proclamation is not made, the third (3rd) Monday in February shall be designated a holiday.
(b)	The date of the Floater Holiday shall be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union prior to January 31 st of each year.
26:02 (a) An employee shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at his basic classification rate, provided he has completed his last regular scheduled shift preceding the holiday and his first regular scheduled shift following the holiday in accordance with the shift schedule, and he has also completed any overtime commitment adjacent to the holiday for which he has volunteered.
26:02 (b) Subject to the above provisions an employee working “H” and “P” shifts shall receive twelve (12) hours pay at his basic classification rate when a recognized
51
holiday falls on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday.
26:03 Notwithstandingthe provisions of section 26:02 an employee shall be considered eligible for holiday pay provided:
(a)	He was not late in excess of one hour on his first regular shift following the holiday, and presents a satisfactory reason for his lateness.
(b)	He requested and received written permission from his Foreman to be absent on either his last regular scheduled shift preceding the holiday, or his first regular scheduled shift following the holiday, or any portion of these times, and returns to work at the expiry of the period for which he had received permission to be absent.
26:04 An employee who accepts an assignment to work on a holiday and fails to report, shall not be paid for the holiday unless he has a reason satisfactory to the Company.
26:05
(a)	An employee normally scheduled to work on a holiday must complete his regular scheduled shift to be eligible for holiday pay.
(b)	An employee who cannot complete his regular scheduled shift due to illness shall receive holiday pay on a pro-rated basis. If the employee subsequently provides proof that he received medical attention that day, he shall receive full holiday pay.
26:06 An employee assigned to the continuous shift schedule who is normally on his days off shall be considered to be in continuous employment and shall be paid for the holiday in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
26:07 Notwithstandingthe provisions of section 26:02, an employee who is absent on his last regular scheduled shift preceding the holiday, and/or his first regular scheduled shift following the holiday, due to personal sickness supported by a medical doctor's certificate, or because of lay-off, shall receive holiday pay provided he works one
52
complete shift in the week in which the holiday occurs, or in the case of a continuous shift employee, provided he works one complete shift within five (5) calendar days preceding or succeeding the holiday.
26:08
(a)	An employee required to work on a holiday (except on Christmas Day) shall be paid at time and one-half his basic classification rate.
(b)	An employee required to work on Christmas Day shall be paid two (2) times his basic classification rate.
(c)	An employee required to work two (2) complete shifts on any holiday (except Christmas Day) shall be paid two and one-half (2 1/2) times his basic classification rate for the second shift.
(d)	An employee required to work two (2) complete shifts on Christmas Day shall be paid three (3) times his basic classification rate for the second shift.
(e)	An employee required to work after 7:00 pm on Christmas Eve shall be paid one and one-halftimes his basic classification rate.
26:09 For a 3-shift operation, the 24 hour period which shall be observed for all Contract designated holidays shall be the 24-hour period following 11:00 p.m. the night immediately prior to the holiday, and ending 11:00 p.m. the day of the holiday.
In these circumstances, the rate of pay for the 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shift on the day of the holiday shall be calculated on a straight time basis.
ARTICLE XXVII VACATION PLAN
All employees are required to take a vacation with pay in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
27:01
(a) An employee is eligible for an annual vacation with 53
pay provided he has performed work for at least thirty (30) calendar days during the qualifying period of July 1st of the preceding year and June 30th of the current year.
(b) The service of rehired employees acquired while in their previous employ shall not be considered in assessing their eligibility for vacation entitlement.
27:02
(a)	An employee having less than one (1) year's service, at the end of the qualifying period, shall be entitled to one (1) day of vacation with pay for each full month of employment up to a maximum of ten (10) days.
(b)	An employee having one (1) year but less than three (3) years service, at the end of the qualifying period, shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation annually with pay.
(c)	An employee having three (3) years, but less than ten (10) years’ service during the current calendar year, shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation annually with pay. This additional week of entitlement must be taken after the employee's third anniversary date.
(d)	An employee having ten (10) years, but less than eighteen (18) years’ service during the current calendar year, shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation annually with pay. This additional week of entitlement must be taken after the employee's tenth anniversary date.
(e)	An employee having eighteen (18) years, but less than twenty-eight (28) years' service during the current calendar year, shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation annually with pay. This additional week of entitlement must be taken after the employee's eighteenth anniversary date.
({) An employee having twenty-eight (28) years, but less than thirty-two (32) years’ service during the current calendar year, shall be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation annually with pay. This additional
54
week of entitlement must be taken after the employee's twenty-eighth anniversary date.
(g) An employee having thirty-two (32) or more years service during the current calendar year, shall be entitled to seven (7) weeks vacation annually with pay. This additional week of entitlement must be taken after the employee's thirty-second anniversary date.
27:03
(a)	For an employee entitled to less than two (2) weeks vacation with pay, vacation pay shall be calculated at the rate of 4% of the employee’s gross earnings for the qualifying period.
(b)	For an employee entitled to two (2) weeks or more vacation with pay, payment for each week of vacation shall be calculated at the rate of 2% of the employee's gross earnings for the qualifying period including the vacation pay received during that period.
27:04 Subject to the provisions of Section 27:01 (a), an employee who through illness or accident loses seven (7) continuous working days or more of employment, shall have his earnings credited with the number of hours so lost multiplied by his basic regular rate for the purpose of computing vacation pay, provided such illness or accident is verified by a certificate from a duly certified medical practitioner.
27:05
(a)	An employee shall be paid his vacation pay prior to the commencement of his vacation period.
(b)	Notwithstanding 27:05 (a), an employee who has not taken his full vacation entitlement prior to December of each year shall, upon request be paid any outstanding vacation pay by the end of the year, provided he advises his Foreman or Supervisor before December 1st.
27:06 An employee leaving the employ of the Company shall be paid the vacation pay to which he is
55
entitled from the preceding July 1st up to and including his last day of employment.
27:07 The Company may elect to close any part cf its plant for vacation purposes within the period July 1st through August 31st in any year. The period of this shutdown shall be the 'Prime Vacation Period' for all employees so affected and shall constitute all or a portion of their total vacation entitlement. If the shut down period includes a recognized holiday, then all non-continuous employees affected by the shutdown shall have their vacation period extended by one (1) day without pay.
27:08 Employees not affected by section 27:07 shall be entitled to take a maximum of two (2) weeks of their vacation during the Prime Vacation Period. (An exception to this may be made in accordance with section 28:02.) Unless other arrangements are made, the remainder of their entitlement shall be given at another time with consideration given to their preference and seniority.
27:09 Vacation schedules shall be posted not later than March 1st, and the Company shall endeavor to inform the employees affected of any departmental shutdown prior to this date.
27:10 An employee shall not be permitted to waive his vacation and have it accumulate from year to year.
27:11 When an employee is laid off and the period of lay-off is expected to last for more than thirteen (13) weeks, any unpaid vacation pay to which he is entitled shall be paid him at the time of lay-off.
27:12 Should an employee be recalled to work during the current calendar year, he shall be entitled to a vacation period as provided for in 27:02. An employee who has been on lay-off for less than twice his vacation entitlement must take the vacation to which he is entitled under27:02.
It shall be the prerogative of an employee who has been on lay-off for more than twice his vacation entitlement to choose whether or not to take the vacation to which he is entitled. Payment for such vacation shall be dependent upon whether or not he has already received his vacation
56
pay underthe terms of 27:11 above.
27:13 An employee recalled from lay-off who is entitled to vacation period must select a period which has not been previously allocated to another employee in the department, group, or shift to which he has been recalled.
ARTICLE XXVIII VACATION ALLOCATIONS
28:01 Vacations shall be allocated within the fifty-two (52) week period commencing with the first Sunday in April.
28:02
I (a) Except as described in section 28:02 (b), the “Prime Vacation Period” shall normally be twelve (12) weeks in duration, subject to a maximum of seventeen (17) percent of the employees in any one group being allowed off for vacation purposes. The Prime Vacation Period shall end each year on the Saturday immediately preceding Labour Day. Vacation relief during the Prime Vacation Period shall be retained within shifts and on a shift basis except where a wheel relief system is in operation, or where it is mutually agreed to extend such systems to other groups.
(b) When the complement in the Maintenance Mechanical Group and/or the Maintenance Electrical Group is eighteen (18) or more, the calculation made to determine the maximum number allowed off during the Prime Period will be rounded down to the nearest whole number. At certain complements, this calculation will result in an insufficient number of vacation weeks for all employees in either or both of the above groups to choose two weeks in the Prime Period.
28:03 The following groups shall be considered to be individual and separate units for the purpose of vacation allocations in the Prime Period only:
57
1.	FORMING GROUP:
All Forming classifications except Utility Cleaner Group Leader and Day Schedule Utility Cleaner.
2.	COMBINED GROUP:
Utility Cleaner Forming Group Leader Utility Cleaner- Forming
3.	FABRICATIONS” TWIST AND PLY GROUP: Fabrication “ A Twist and Ply Operators Fabrication “ A Machine Cleaner
4.	FABRICATION" A PACKING GROUP:
Fabrication" A Packers Fabrication" A ProductionOperator
5.	ROVING GROUP:
All Roving and milled Fiber classifications.
6.	REINFORCING MAT GROUP:
All Reinforcing Mat classifications.
7.	FABRICATION“C” GROUP:
All Fabrication^” classifications.
8.	MATERIALS DISTRIBUTION GROUP:
All Shipping and Stores classifications.
9.	MAINTENANCE MECHANICAL GROUP: Maintenance Mechanic.
Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice. Carpenter-Painter.
10.	MAINTENANCE ELECTRICAL GROUP: Maintenance Electrician.
Maintenance Electrician Apprentice.
11.	MAINTENANCE COMBINED GROUP:
Maintenance General Labour.
Janitor.
Maintenance Utility.
Tool Crib Attendant.
Material Handler- Batch House.
28:04 The maximum number of employees allowed off for vacations outside the Prime Period shall be computed for each group according to the following formula:
(a)	After the Prime Period has been completely allocated, a balance of weeks outside the Prime Period shall remain in the vacation year.
(b)	The total remaining weeks of vacation entitlement for the entire group shall then be computed.
58
(c)	The total remaining weeks of vacation entitlements shall be divided by the weeks remaining in the vacation year outside the Prime Period.
(d)	The total resulting from the calculations in (c) above, shall then be increased to the nearest whole number and shall be the maximum number of employees in the Group allowed off at any one time outside of the Prime Vacation Period.
Example: In Group X a twelve (12) week Prime Vacation Period has been completely allocated and ninety-five (95) weeks of vacation entitlements are still to be taken in the remaining forty (40) weeks of the vacation year.
95 / 40 = 2.4
Therefore, a maximum of three employees in Group X would be allowed off at any one time outside of the Prime Vacation Period.
(e)	(i) Except as noted in 28:04 (e) (ii) for Group 6 (All Skilled Mechanical Maintenance Classifications) and Group 7 (All Skilled Electrical Maintenance Classifications) as outlined in 28:05, one employee from each group shall be allowed off at any one time outside the Prime Period in addition to the maximum number as computed according to the formula described in 28:04 (d).
(ii) When the complement of Group 6 or Group 7 or both is eighteen (18) or more, then the number of employees allowed off from the group during the two (2) week period which includes both Christmas Day and New Years Day, and the two (2) week period which includes the annual March school break, shall be the maximum number computed according to the formula described in 28:04 (d) plus two (2) additional per week.
28:05 The following Departmental Groups shall be considered as separate units for the purpose of vacation allocations outside the Prime Period.
1.	All Forming Department Classifications.
59
2.	All Fabrication "ADepartment Classifications.
3.	All Fabrication “B” Department Classifications.
4.	All Fabrication “C” Department Classifications.
5.	All Materials Distribution Classifications.
6.	All Skilled Mechanical Maintenance Classifications.
7.	All Skilled Electrical MaintenanceClassifications.
8.	All other Maintenance Department Classifications.
28:06 The classifications of Carpenter-Painter and Tool Crib Attendant shall be excluded from the units referred to in section‘28:03 and section 28:05 and employees in these two (2) classifications shall be entitled to select their vacation during the period referred to in section 28:01.
This entitlement is valid only so long as there is only one (1) employee in the classification concerned.
28:07 Employees eligible for vacations shall be contacted in order of seniority and asked to select their entitlement.
The method of allocating vacations shall be as follows:
(a)	(i) OPTION ONE
First Choice - Two (2), one (1) week segments in the Prime Period wherever available.
Second Choice - The remainder of his entitlement in weekly segments in any manner.
An employee who chooses Option One must wait until all first choice selections have been made in his Group or Departmental Group before making his second choice.
(ii) OPTION TWO:
The employee's full entitlement in weekly segments outside the Prime Period.
An employee who selects Option Two may choose his entitlement in any manner and this selection shall be considered as a complete and final choice.
60
(b)	In some instances, because of prior selections, full options may not be available to an employee.
28:08 When a recognized holiday falls within the vacation period of a day-schedule employee, then he may elect to extend his vacation period by one day without pay. This day shall follow his vacation period unless the employee's absence adversely affects the Company's operation. In these circumstances another day shall be selected which is mutually acceptable to the Company and the employee. The employee must notify his Foreman of his intent to extend his vacation period at least two weeks before the start of his vacation. Further, if the above mentioned vacation period contains more than one recognized holiday, then the same principles shall apply regarding extension and other terms.
28:09 Certain Vacation Special Arrangements for selected classifications are necessary to ensure the efficient operation of the Plant during vacation periods. The Company and the Union shall meet annually prior to the vacation period and mutually agree upon the implementation of said Vacation Special Arrangements.
ARTICLE XXIX
TRAINING AND EDUCATIONAL MEETINGS
29:01 From time to time, employees will be requested to attend classroom type training or educational meetings outside of their regular working hours. Pay for such meetings shall be at straight time, and at least seven (7) days notice shall be given. Such meetings shall not be conducted on Saturdays, Sundays, or Contract Agreed Holidays, and shall not exceed six (6) hours in any work week.
An employee requested to attend classroom type training, or an educational meeting which is not adjacent to, or during his regular shifts, shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours straight time wages. If the employee is not in attendance at the start or finish of the meeting, he shall be paid only for the time present at the meeting.
29:02 On a maximum of eight (8) occasions in a calen-
61
dar year, Forming Department shift meetings may be convened and employees involved are encouraged to attend.
These meetings will take place following a regularly scheduled shift, and will not exceed two (2) hours in duration. Pay for such meetings shall be at time and one-half the employee's basic classification rate. Such meetings will not be convened on a Saturday, Sunday, or recognized holiday.
At each meeting, safety and health subjects will be the prime objective. Notice of these meetings shall be posted at least one week in advance.
If the Company encounters attendance problems at such meetings, the parties agree to meet at the request of the Company to discuss and explore solutions to the problem.
ARTICLE XXX BENEFIT COVERAGE
30:01 The Company acknowledges that the following benefit plans are in effect:
(a)	Group Life Insurance Plan
(b)	Weekly Indemnity Plan
(c)	Long Term Disability Plan
(d)	Group Health Plan
(e)	Ontario Health Insurance Plan
(f)	Dental Insurance Plan
An employee is eligible to participate in these plans in accordance with their provisions, as outlined in the governing benefit plan documents. All benefit plan changes become effective October 1, 1992 except as otherwise stated. Some of the highlights of the plans are briefly described below.
30:02
(a) Basic Life Insurance Plan:
62
100% of basic annual earnings rounded to nearest $500, minimum $35,000 basic life insurance coverage for all eligible employees.
Employees hired prior to October 1, 1992 retain an Accidental Death and Dismemberment (A.D.& D.) Benefit of $17,500 which is supplemental to the Basic Life Insurance Benefit.
(b) Weekly Indemnity Plan:
(i)	Payment of W.l. benefit will be 66.2/3% of scheduled daily earnings, in no event less than the minimum Unemployment Insurance (U.I.) benefit entitlement and subject to the benefit payment schedule.
(ii)	Benefit Payment Schedule
For each scheduled working day of absence due to disability resulting from illness, during the period of June 1, 1992 to December31, 1992, benefitswill be paid in accordance with the schedule inthe previous contract. Effective January 1, 1993 the following schedule will be used.
Scheduled Working Day of Absence % of Maximum Daily Benefit Payable
Shift
Duration	3rd &
(Hrs.) 1st Day 2nd Day Subsequent Day 8	0	50%	100%
12	0	100%	100%
If an employee becomes disabled due to a nonoccupational accident, or is confined as a bed patient in a licensed hospital for at least twenty-four hours, the daily benefit will become payable from the first scheduled working day of absence.
(c)	Long Term Disability Plan (L.T.D.):
In order to qualify for L.T.D. coverage an employee must complete a minimum of 12 months of active service with FCI. If he is not actively at work when coverage is scheduled to commence, his coverage will not begin until he has returned to work full time
63
for full pay.
Eligible employees becoming totally disabled for longer than twenty-six (26) weeks, having drawn their total Weekly Indemnity benefits, shall be entitled to apply for L.T.D. benefits. Employees who qualify will receive a benefit equal to the greater of i) $375.00 per month plus $30.00 per month for each full year of service up to a maximum of 60% of basic pre-disability earnings or ii) 33.1/3% of basic monthly earnings up to a maximum of $1,500 (including income from any sources to which an employer contributes, except that portion of the Canada Pension Plan (CPP) Disability Pension which is payable solely because a disabled employee has a dependent child). In any event, income from all sources for which benefits are payable in respect of the disability (including CPP dependent benefits) and payments from any employer cannot exceed 85% of basic pre-disability earnings.
The payment of benefits is subject to a pre-existing conditions limitation.
(d)	Group Health Plan:
(i)	Hospital Benefit:
A 90% reimbursement of Hospital charges for semiprivate accommodation.
(ii)	Major Medical:
80% reimbursement of the first $500 of eligible expenses for employee coverage and $1,000 for family coverage in each calendar year; 100% reimbursement above these levels. Eligible expenses shall include the following:
1. Expenses incurred for drugs provided they are prescribed by a physician or dentist, and dispensed by a pharmacist, physician or dentist. To be eligible, drugs must have an assigned Drug Identification Number (DIN), or must be an extemporaneous mixture which contains a drug ingredient which has been assigned a DIN. This does not include vitamins.
64
2. A Vision Care benefit providing reimbursement of eligible expenses up to a maximum of $100 every 24 months, per person, for corrective prescription lenses, frames, or contact lenses, when such are recommended by a physician or optometrist.
For employees only, this benefit may be used to supplement the allowance for prescription safety glasses and frames.
(e)	Ontario Health Insurance Plan:
The Company pays the employer health tax for the Ontario Hospital and Medical Plan (OHIP).
(f)	Dental Insurance Plan:
This plan is comprised of three (3) separate components, namely Basic (Preventive) Care, Major Restorative Care, and Orthodontic Services.
Eligible expenses for Basic (Preventive) Dental Care, during the first year of this contract, will be paid at 100% by the F.C.I. Plan. Effective June 1, 1993, eligible Basic (Preventive) Dental Care expenses will be reimbursedat80%.
Eligible expenses for Major Restorative Dental Care, which includes coverage for inlays, crowns, and dentures, are reimbursed at 50%, and in combination with Basic Care, are subject to a maximum benefit of fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500) per year per insured person.
Eligible Orthodontic services which pertain to the moving or straightening of teeth, including appliances, bands, etc., are provided on a 50% co-insurance basis. This coverage is limited to a lifetime maximum of one thousand dollars ($1,000) per insured person.
All covered dental charges are subject to an annual deductible of twenty five ($25.00) dollars per individual and fifty ($50.00) dollars per family. The deductible will be eliminated effective June 1, 1993. Reimbursement is based on the 1992 Ontario Dental Association Schedule of Fees. In 1993,
65
effective on the date of the announcement, covered dental charges shall be based on the 1993 ODA Schedule of Fees. In 1994, effective on the date of the announcement, covered dental charges shall be based on the 1994 ODA Schedule of Fees.
30:03 The Company shall pay the total cost of the plans described above.
30:04
(a)	The Company shall continue to maintain the above
plans for an employee who is disabled and unable to work because of accident or sickness.
(b)	The Company shall maintain the above plans, with
the exception of Weekly Indemnity benefits, for an employee who is on an approved leave of absence or on lay-off for thirty (30) calendar days or less.
30:05 An employee shall be ineligible to receive vacation pay and Weekly Indemnity benefit simultaneously. If an employee becomes disabled prior to his scheduled vacation period he may choose to waive the Weekly Indemnity claim for that period and take his vacation or he may choose to waive his scheduled vacation period and have the vacation rescheduled in accordance with the provisions (a) and (b) below:
(a)	For employees with vacations in July and/or August, the Company will endeavor to reschedule their vacations within July and/or August at a time mutually convenient to the Company and the employee.
(b)	For employees with vacations outside of July and August the Company shall reschedule their vacations outside July and August at a time mutually convenient to the Company and the employee.
ARTICLE XXXI PENSION PLAN
31:01 An employee is eligible to participate in the “Fiberglas Canada Inc. Pension Plan for Hourly-Rated Employees” (dated October 1st, 1972, as amended on
66
January 1st, 1977, January 1st, 1981, January 1st, 1985, and January 1st, 1989), in accordance with its provisions. The highlights cf the “Plan” are outlined in a Pension Plan booklet.
ARTICLE XXXII TERMS AND CONDITIONS
32:01 The patties hereto agree that this Agreement and all attached Letters of Intent and Understandingand Memoranda of Agreement, shall constitute the complete Collective Agreement between the parties hereto and the parties hereto are bound by its terms and conditions.
ARTICLE XXXIII
MODIFICATION, RENEWAL AND TERMINATION
33:01 This Agreement shall become effective on the 1st day of June. 199? and shall remain in effect until the aist day of May 1994 and from year to year thereafter unless either party gives the other party notice in writing of its desire to modify or amend any section or provision thereof. Such notice must be given not less than sixty (60) days, nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the termination date cf this agreement.
33:02 If notice of desire to modify or amend any section or provision of the Agreement is given by either party, in accordance with section 33:01, negotiations shall commence not laterthan twenty (20) calendar days after receipt of such written notice, and this agreement shall continue in full force and effect until consummation of a new Agreement or completion of the conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Ontario
33:03 This Agreement supersedes all previous Agreements and Memoranda relating hereto dated prior to the effective date of this Agreement.
33:04 The Company agrees to make available a copy of this Agreement to all employees, and undertakes to
67
forward a copy to the printer within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the signatures.
68
SIGNED AT GUELPH, ONTARIO THIS 27TH DAY OF MAY 1993.
FOR THE COMPANY
E. W. Mogk,
Plant Manager
G. Charlton,
Manager, Corporate Personnel & Industrial Relations A Larsen,
Production Superintendent, Forming R. Friend,
Human Resources Manager R. Irving,
Maintenance Superintendent C. DeNardis,
Labour Relations Specialist
FOR THE UNION
P. Raso,
President, Local 1305 R. Ricetto,
Vice President, Local 1305 J. Mifsud,
Recording Secretary, Local 1305 D. Norris,
Financial Secretary, Local 1305, N. Saccary,
Sergeant-at-Arms, Local 1305 N. Younger,
Business Manager, Joint Board 69
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
June 1,1986
The following procedure will be adopted in determining
shift allocations for all future openings in the
MaintenanceClassification.
1.	When an opening occurs it will be posted in the Plant and applications will be accepted in accordance with Article XVI of the Agreement.
2.	If there is no successful applicant the opening will be filled by other means.
3A. The new Maintenance Mechanic will be familiarized with the continuous shift routines and will be prepared to go on shifts as soon as the familiarization period is completed but not later than five (5) months after date of hire.
3B. The new Electrician will be familiarized with the continuous shift routines and will be prepared to go on shifts as soon as the familiarization period is completed but not later than twelve (12) months after date of hire.
3C. The new Apprentice will be trained on day shift (or other shifts as appropriate) during which time he will be familiarized with the continuous shift routine. He will be prepared to go on shifts after the successful completion of his final year of apprenticeship.
4.	These procedures will apply in all but exceptional circumstances, for example vacation purposes or sickness. An exceptional circumstance will be discussed with the Union and upon mutual agreement the familiarization period may be extended.
5.	When the Maintenance person is prepared for continuous shifts, a notice will be posted from 12:00 noon to 12:00 noon for seven (7) calendar days in the Maintenance Department to allow present employees in the appropriate classification to bid for the opening on day shift.
6.	The most senior applicant (of the Continuous Shift incumbents) for the opening on day shift will go on
70
days and the new (most junior qualified) employee will be placed on the shift vacated no later than the week following the selection.
7.	The Union will be notified of the successful applicant of this posting.
8.	Should an opening occur on a shift, the duration of which is known to be for more than six (6) months, day schedule employees will be given first consideration in order of seniority, provided the efficiency of the operation is not adversely affected.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
January 12,1988
The following procedures will be followed in filling shortterm assignments in the Fabrication Departments and
from the Fabrication Departments to Forming.
1.	If a particular classification requires additional labour, and this need can be accommodated among the regularly scheduled non-overtime employees from any other classification, volunteers must be solicited among the employees who can perform the work required.
2.	If no volunteers are forthcoming, the most junior trained employee in the applicable classification will be re-assigned to the job.
3.	If the requirement cannot be filled in the above manner, overtime will be solicited in accordance with practice and in compliance with the Collective Agreement.
4.	If the most junior trained employee is reassigned to another classification, for more than half his regular shifts in any given month, and there is a more junior untrained employee on the shift, the Company will provide training to the most junior untrained employee, or a more senior volunteer on the shift, to accommodate the requirement. If the requirement is in the Forming Department, the training will be as an End Finder or Winder Operator only.
71
5.	Overtime will not be planned for any classification with the pre-conceived intent of transferring employee^) to temporary assignmentselsewhere.
6.	If the requirement cannot be accommodated through the utilization of 1, 2, or 3, above, trained employees outside the classification will be solicited.
7.	The Company assures the Union of its intent to extend every effort to ensure compliance with this procedure.
LETTER OF INTENT
November25, 1987 HOURS OF WORK - MILLED FIBER
Until further notice, the hours of work for F & G shift schedules in the Milled Fibers operation will be as follows:
Monday- Friday 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
Monday - Thursday 3:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m.
Shifts will rotate each week.
Under this modified schedule, subject to the eligibility requirements of Article XXVI, recognized holiday pay will be paid on the basis of 8 hours at the basic classification rate. When a recognized holiday shortens an employee's regular shift he will be allowed the option to make up the lost hours at straight time.
LETTER OF INTENT
August 26, 1988
HOURS OF WORK
BATCH HOUSE MATERIAL HANDLERS
Until further notice, the hours of work for the two incumbents in this classification will be changed to a rotating schedule of 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m., and 11:00 a.m. - 7:00
72
p.m. The normal shift premium of $.34 per hour will be paidfor all hours worked after3:00 p.m.
Any further vacancy in this classification while working this amended schedule will be posted as if it were on “ E shift.
At this time, changes in hours of work are not being contemplated in other classifications and if this should arise in the future, the Union Committee will be consulted beforehand.
LETTER OF INTENT
March 5, 1987
DISPOSABLE COVERALLS
Upon request, disposable coveralls will be supplied to employees working in Chop Strands, Wet Chop Strands, Milled Fiber, and Creel Operators in Fabrication “C”.
LETTER OF INTENT
December 29, 1986 HOURS OF WORK
SET-UP AND PRODUCTION OPERATOR - FABRICATION “C”
Until further notice, the hours of work for these classifications are changedfrom 'Efehift hoursto ‘M’ shift hours.
Should a vacancy occur in either classification while working ‘M’ shift, it will be posted in accordance with the 'E'shift provisions cf Article XVI.
73
LETTER OF INTENT
April 3, 1986
LEAVE OF ABSENCE - UNION BUSINESS
Upon written request from the Local Union Committee, the Company will pay members of the Bargaining Unit their normal earnings while they are on approved leave of absence to attend approved Union business. Joint Board business is excludedfrom this arrangement.
Upon presentation of an invoice, the Local Union shall reimburse the Company.
LETTER OF INTENT
April 3, 1986
MAINTENANCE MECHANICS JOB ASSIGNMENTS
On the occasions when it is necessary to re-assign job assignments to Maintenance Mechanics within the Maintenance Mechanic classification of the Local Textile Plant, the following factors will be considered:
(i)	The recorded interest of the employee.
(ii)	The past demonstrated skills of the employee.
(iii)	The physical ability of the employee.
(iv)	The seniority of the employee.
In all cases, the efficiency (f the operation will remain a prime concern, and the timeliness of the moves will be governed by the complexity of the moves, the number of moves required, and other operational requirements.
The following procedure will apply in the re-assignment of day schedule Maintenance Mechanics:
(a)	Continuous Shift Maintenance Mechanics will be relieved by the most junior qualified employee(s) within the classification. These relief employees shall be excludedfrom re-assignment when removal for C/S relief causes operational problems.
(b)	The Company will solicit volunteers for reassignment by posting a notice on the Maintenance Shop
74
notice board.
(c)	If there are no volunteers, the Company will endeavor to reassign one of the junior employees (the relief employee(s) excluded) from the bottom third of the Seniority List.
(d)	Changes will be implemented, whenever possible, within a six (6) month period (in cases of multiple moves).
(e)	Employees who have been on a job assignment for at least two (2) years may request a desire to change in writing. Earlier moves for medical or other reasons will be considered.
LETTER OF INTENT
April 3, 1986
DELAY IN WCB CLAIM
In the event there is reason to believe an employee's Workers' Compensation claim will be unduly delayed, upon request the employee will be allowed to simultaneously submit a Weekly Indemnity claim, provided he signs a waiver form agreeing to immediately reimburse the Sun Life Assurance Company upon receipt of his WCB benefitcheque(s).
This special arrangement will be subject to cancellation if Sun Life or the Company encounters difficulty in collecting from any employee.
LETTER OF INTENT
April 3, 1986
WARNING LETTERS
A warning letter will be delivered to the employee concerned while at work under normal circumstances. The Company, however, may direct a warning letter to the
75
employee's residence if circumstancesso warrant.
LETTER OF INTENT
April 3, 1986
SPECIALIZED TRAINING
On the occasion when it is necessary to select employees for courses or specialized training, the Union Committee will be consulted on the Company's selection.
LETTER OF INTENT
April 3, 1986
END FINDERS- REDUCTION IN WORK FORCE
Employees who are considered to be trained End Finders will be allowed to displace more junior End Finders in a reduction of the work force regardless of whether or not they are trained Winders.
It is acknowledged by the parties that Winder relief must also be accommodated by End Finders, and as is the practice with Production Operators, an End Finder who cannot function satisfactorily as a relief Winder after the normal period of training, will be removed from the End Finder classification.
76
LETTER OF INTENT
April 3, 1986
The following addresses will be used for mailing of correspondence between the patties:
To the Company:
Owens Corning,
P.O. Box 3603,
Guelph, Ontario,
N1 H 6P6
To the Union:
Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union,
15 Gervais Drive,
Suite 700,
Don Mills, Ontario,
M3C 1Y8
LETTER OF INTENT
April 1, 1986
EXCESSIVE USE OF DML
In the event the Company can provide evidence of excessive abuse to the Departmental Move List (DML) as a result cf employees reversing their decisions to move, the Union agrees to discuss and negotiate appropriate deterrents, as tabled by the Company during the negotiations in April, 1984.
77
LETTER OF INTENT
April 20, 1988
The intent of this letter is to clarify Article 8:10 of the Collective Agreement as it applies to Committee Members of the Local Union.
It will be the Company's intent to reimburse Committee Members for their normal earnings when they attend a negotiating meeting on the following basis. The rule of thumb to be applied is to ensure that each member has a minimum period of 12 hours rest preceding and following each meeting, therefore any regular scheduled hours of work falling in this time frame will be reimbursed.
Further, in the event the negotiating schedule is such that the Committee Member would attend meetings on all of his regular days of rest, the Company will reimburse him for the first scheduled shift after these meetings. This only applies to Continuous Shift Committee Members.
LETTER OF INTENT
May 6, 1992
Hours of Work - M Shift
Before an employee's hours of work are changed from E shift to M shift, the Company will provide the Union with a letter indicating:
(a)	the employee(s) affected will maintain contractual rights associated with E shift.
(b)	that should vacancies occur in the affected classifications, these will be posted in accordance with the E shift provisionsof Article XVI.
78
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
June 17, 1988 Amended August 19,1992
The Company and the Union agree that subject to the general provisions of Article XXVIII, Vacation Allocations for the Mechanics in the Alloy Section of the Maintenance Mechanical group shall be restricted so that:
(i)	At a complement of two (2) employees, one (1) shall be retained at any one time.
(ii)	At a complement of three (3) or four (4) employees, a minimum of two (2) shall be retained at any one time.
Should the complement of Mechanics in this section increase to five (5) or more, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the matter with a view to increasing the above minimum restriction if such action is deemed necessary in the interest of Plant efficiency.
79
APPENDIX ‘A'
SCHEDULE OF BASIC
HOURLY RATES OF PAY JUNE 1,1992
Job Classification	Dock	Con- tinous Shift	'ode	lon-Con- tinous Shift
Electrician	A1		L1	
Maintenance Mechanic	A2	19.33	L2	19.87
Carpenter-Painter			L4	
Furnace Operator	C1	17.43	N1	17.98
Binder Mixer	D1	17.20	P1	17.74
Batchhouse Operator	E3	16.97	Q3	17.26
Set-Up				
Utility Operator-Forming	El	16.73		17.26
Bushing Heat Control Man	E2		Q1	17.50
Yam Checker-Forming	F1			
Bushing Operator	F2		R8	
Winder-Forming	F3			
Reinforcing Mat Machine				
Operator	F4	16.61	R1	17.11
Wet Chop Operator/Winder	F5			
Roll-Up Operator	F6			
Reinforcing Mat				
Storeskeeper	F9		R2	
Mixer			R5	
Milled Fiber Operator	F7		RG	
Tool Crib Attendant			R9	
Inspector- Reinforcing Mat	G1	16.51	S1	17.01
Packer-Textiles	G2		S2	
Slitter Reinforcing Mat	G3			
Winder Checker	H1		T1	
Twist and Ply Operator	H2		T2	
Splicer-Fabrication “C”	H3		T3	
Service Attendant				
Fabrication		16.41	T5	16.90
Service Attendant Forming	H5			
Winder-Fabrication “B”	H6		T6	
Reconditioner-Formina	H7		T7	
80
APPENDIX 'A
SCHEDULE OF BASIC
HOURLY RATES OF PAY JUNE 1,1992
		Con-		Non-Con-
		tinous		tinous
Job Classification	Code	Shift	Code	Shift
Creel Operator	I2		W1	
End Finder	I3		W5	
Multiple Winding Operator	-	16.39	W2	16.88
Mis. Textile Operator			W3	
Maintenance Utility			W4	
Fab B Utility Cleaner			W7	
Production Operator	J1			
Material Handler				
Batch House	-	16.19	X2	16.68
Utility Cleaner-Forming	-			
Machine Cleaner			7i	
Janitor			Z2	
Bobbin Reconditioner	K1	16.06	Z3	16.55
Sweeper			Z4	
General Labour	K2		Z5	
The basic classification rate for Probationary employees shall be $2.00 per hour less than the basic hourly rates listed above for the first forty-five (45) calendar days of the probationary period.
The basic classification rate for students shall be $2.00 per hour less than the basic hourly rates listed above for the first ninety (90) calendar days of the probationary period.
Group Leaders shall be paid a premium of $.70 per hour and their basic classification rate shall include the Group Leader's premium.
Charge Hands appointed for a lengthy illness or vacation relief purposes shall be paid a premium of $.30 per hour plus a Group Leader’s premium of $.70 per hour and their basic classification rate shall include these premiums.
81
APPENDIX ‘A'
SCHEDULE OF BASIC
HOURLY RATES OF PAY JUNE1,1993
		Con-		Ion-Con-
		tinous		tinous
Job Classification	Code	Shift	lode	Shift
Electrician	A1		L1	
Maintenance Mechanic	A2	19.73	L2	20.27
Carpenter-Painter			L4	
Furnace Operator	C1	17.83	N1	18.38
Binder Mixer	D1	17.60	P1	18.14
Batchhouse Operator	E3	17.37	Q3	17.66
Set-Up				
Utility Operator-Forming	El	17.13		17.66
Bushing Heat Control Man	E2		Q1	17.90
Yarn Checker-Forming	F1			
Bushing Operator	F2		R8	
Winder-Forming	F3			
Reinforcing Mat Machine				
Operator	F4	17.01	R1	17.51
Wet Chop Operator/Windei	F5			
Roll-Up Operator	F6			
ReinforcingMat				
Storeskeeper	F9		R2	
Mixer			R5	
Milled Fiber Operator	F7		RG	
Tool Crib Attendant			R9	
Inspector- Reinforcing Mat	G1	16.91	S1	17.41
Packer-Textiles	G2		S2	
Slitter Reinforcing Mat	G3			
Winder Checker	H1		T1	
Twist and Ply Operator	H2		T2	
Splicer-Fabrication “C”	H3		T3	
Service Attendant				
Fabrication		16.81	T5	17.30
Service Attendant Forming	H5			
Winder-Fabrication “B”	HE		T6	
Reconditioner-Formina	Hi		T7	
82
______________APPENDIX ' A
SCHEDULE OF BASIC
HOURLY RATES OF PAY JUNE 1, 1993
	I	Con-		Non-Con-
		tinous		tinous
Job Classification	'ode	Shift	Code	Shift
Creel Operator	I2		W1	
End Finder	I3		W5	
Multiple Winding Operator		16.79	W2	17.28
Mis. Textile Operator	J	L	W3	
Maintenance Utility			W4	
Fab B Utility Cleaner	I		W7	
Production Operator Material Handler Batch House Utility Cleaner-Forming
Machine Cleaner Janitor
Bobbin Reconditioner Sweeper General Labour
The basic classification rate for probationary employees shall be $2.00 per hour less than the basic hourly rates listed above for the first forty-five (45) calendar days cf the probationary period.
The basic classification rate for students shall be $2.00 per hour less than the basic hourly rates fisted above for the first ninety (90) calendar days of the probationary period.
Group Leaders shall be paid a premium of $.70 per hour and their basic classification rate shall include the Group Leader's premium.
Charge Handsappointedfor a lengthy illness or vacation relief purposes shall be paid a premium <f $.30 per hour plus a Group Leader’s premium of $.70 per hour and their basic classification rate shall include these premiums.
83
CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE 1993
j SHIFT	1	2	3	4	5	e	7	s	9	10	11	12	13 I 14		15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30131	
U 1	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	C	B	B	B D		D	D	A	A	A	C	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A
	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A C		C	C	B	B	B	D	d[d		A	A	O		C	clB		B	B
BTWTFSSUTWTPSSUTW-tfSSMTWTFSS																															
r SHIFT ? 2	i	2	3	4	s	e	7	$	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28			
	C	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B			
	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A			
MT.WT FSSMTW TFSSUTWTFS9MTWTFSSMTW																															
SHIFT C H 2													13						19				23	24	25		27	28 [29		30	31
	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A
	A* A		C	C	cl B		B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	d|a		A	A	C	C	C	B	B
TFSSUTWTF&SMTTVTFSSMTVKTFSSMTWTF																															
SHIFT	1	2	3	4	s	6 1 7		3	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	is	17 I 18		19	20	21	22	23	24	25	25	27	28	29	30	
	A	c	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B	
	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	
SSUTWTFSSMTWTFSSUTWTFSSMTWTFSSM																															
SHIFT	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	3	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	B	D	D	0	A	A	A	c	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A
	A	c	C	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	c	B	B	B
TWTFSSUTWTF9SMTWTFS9VTWTF9SMTW																															
1 SHIFT! 1		2	3	4	5	6	7		9	10	ii	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26 1 27		28	29	30	
lu 1 j 2	C	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	C	B	B	B	
	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	
7FSSMTWTFSSKTWTFSSKTWTFSSMTWTFS																															
| shift	1	2	3	4	s	6 1 7			9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	D	D	D	A	A	A C		C	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c
	C C		C	B	B	b|d		D	D	A	A	A C		C	Cl B		B	B	D	D	D	A	A	a|c		C	C	B	B	B	0
SUTWTFSSMTWTFRSUTWTFSSUTWTFSSUT																															
SHIR 6 1 T 2																		18		20		22	23		2$	26	27	28	29 I 30 1 31		
	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	c	B	B	:		
	D	D	A A		A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c| c	
WTFOCHTWTF FQMTWTFSAUTWTFaSMTWT																															
j			3	4	5	6			9	10 11		12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28			
	D	A	A	A	c	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	
	C	B	B	B	DiD		D	A	A	A	c	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	
F4euTVJ7FS*UTWTFSSMTWTFSSMTWTFSS																															
0SHIR			3									12				16			19								27TMl»T30l31				
	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B			_	_
	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A j A		A	C	C	c
UT«TFBSUTWTFSRUTWTFSSUTWTFSSyt																															
N SHIFT |	i	2 1 3		4	s	6 | 7		3 I 9		10	ii	12 I 13		14	15	16117		is	19 1 2C		21	22	23	24	25	26 1 27		28	29	30	
	A	A	A	c	C	c	B	B B		D	D	DA		A	A	c	C	C	B B		B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	
	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	a|a		C	C	C B		B	B	D	D	D	a|a		A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	
uiTCeeuTwTFRRUTVrTFSRMTWTFSSMTVrTF																															
D SHIFT		?	a	4	4	K	7	X	9	10	11	1?	is	1.	1S	16	IT	ii	1!	2!	21	22	E	E	2S	26	27	26	29	30	31
	G	G	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	e	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B	g	p	D	D	
	A	A	A	If	C	c	E	E	E	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	E	E	e	D	D	D	if	A	A	c	clc		\
CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE1993
____	Q&R_______ s s < t
j SHIP	1	2	3	4	5	e	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	is	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
»	Q	Q	R	R	R	G	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q
5						T								T																	
	u	T	w	T	F	S	8	u	T	w	T	F	s	S	M	T	w	T	F	S	8	M			T						
F shift		2	3	4	S	s	7	8	9	1C	11	12	13	14	1S	1S	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28			
8	Q	R	R	R	G	G	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R			
5																															
	M		w	T	p	$	8	M		w	T	p	8		M	T	w	T	F	8	8	M	T	w	T		8				w
[shift	t I 2		3	4	s	6	7	8	9	19	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24 2S		26	27	28	29	30	31
F	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q
																											T				
		F		s	u	j		T	F																						
I SHIF		2										12			15							22						28	29		
F 1	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	
r 1																															
	S																									w					u
SHIFT										10			13			IS			19				23							30	
; 1	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q
2																															
	T		r	p	g		M	r		T	F	8	s	M		w		p	s		u	T	w	T	F	S		u	r	w	
SHIFT																															
i ,	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	
2																															
														w																	8
SHIR													13										23								
t 1	0	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q
2			1								|																				
						p									8	u			T		8	s	u	T	w	T	F	s	8	M	T
| SHIR			s																						25			28	29		
I 1	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	O	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R
T 2			T																												
	w														w							w						T	w	T	
SSHIFT		2 1 3		4 5		s																									
	R	R	G	0	Q	R	R	R	Ct Q		Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	
									T																						
						w																					w	,	F	s	8
															15													28			
0 1	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	0	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R
8 2									1																						
	U	T	w	T						w							w							w							
N SHIFT	1	2	3 1 4 1 5 | 6				7	8	9 1 10 1 11			12	13	14	15 | IS		17	18	19	20	21 | 22		23 1 24		25	26	27	28	29	30	
	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	0	Q	R	n	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	
■ 2																	I														
	W	T	p	s	R			w	T													w									f
																			19 1 20		21							26			
s ,	R	Q	Q	a	R	R	R,	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R	Q	Q	Q	R	R	R
I 2																															
CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE 1993
____	^ S&T........ t _ t
j shift	1	2	3	4	5	e	7	B	9	18	11	12	18	14	15	16	17	is	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
s 1	s	T	T	T	s	S	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	s	S	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	S	s
5 2														T								J				T					
																								w							
f shift									9	10					15			18		20			23		25		27	28			
	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	8	S	S	T	T	T	s			
? 2																															
																	w							w							w
SHIFT										10					15					20		22					27	20		30	31
n 1	S	S	T	T	T	s	S	S	T	T	T	s	S	S	T	T	T	s	S	S	T	T	T	S	S	S	T	T	T	s	s
H 2		1											I																|		
							w							w							w										
SHIR	1	2	a 1 4		5	6	7	e	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
5 1	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	S	8	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	$	s	
L 2																															
				T	w	t	C			H	,	w		p	s	s	M		w	T	F	R	s	M	T	w	T	p	3	g	u
SHIR	1	2	3	4	s	s	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
5 i	s	T	T	T	S	S	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	S	S	T	T	T	s	s	s
' !																															
		w														w							w							w	
																				20			23		25	26		28		30	
t ,	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	
																															
							w							w							w							w			g
						e										16							23	24		26		28	29	30	31
i ,	T	T	T	S	s	S	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T
2																	L														
	s	y	T	w	T		,	R		T	w		F		s	M	T	w	T		8	s	M	T	w	T	F	g	g		
smn										10	n	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
jj 1	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	S	s	T	T	T	s	$	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T
'																															
		j	F	g		y		w	T	F	S	B	M	T	w	T	F	S	s	„	T	w	T	F	g	g	M	T	w	T	
																			19					24							
	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	$	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	
|f																															
	F		s	y	T	YU	T	F	s		H	T	w	T	p	s	s	M	T	w	T	p	$	s	M	T	w	T	p	$	$
SHIF								8		10								18		20					25		27		29	30	
J	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	$	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T
*																															
	M	T	w	T	F	s		u	T		T	F	a	g	u	T	w	T	F	R	s	M	T	w	t	p	g	g	u	T	
		7		4							11						17 116					22									
	s	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	
																															
	w	T	p	«.		M	T	w	T	F			M	J	*	T	p	S	S	H	T	w	T	F	S	g	u	T	w	T	p
D SHIF		2	3	4	s	6	7	8	9	1(	11	1J	i:	14	15	it	17	1t	1!	20	21	22	23	24	25	21	27	28	29	30	31
§	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	8	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s
*									1																						
CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE 1993 SHIFT ELECmCIANS	_
j SHIFT	1	2	3	4		6	7	8	s	19	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	13	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26	29	30	31
	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	Z	z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	w	w	w
v 2	X	X	X	Z	z			Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X
			w														w							w							
F SHIFT	1					6	7		9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28			
jj '	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	z	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	w	w	w			
r 2	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	x	X	Z	z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	Z	w	W	Y	Y	X	X	x			
										w							w							,y							w
SHIR	1	2	3	4		6	7	a	s	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20 I 21		22	23	24	25	26	27	26 29		30	31
s ’	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	z	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	W	w	w	Y	Y	X
" 2	Z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	w	w	w	Y	Y	x	X	Z	Z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	x	X	X	z	Z	w
														w														w			
swn	1	2			5 I 6		7		9	10	ii	12	13	14	15	16	17			20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26	29	30	
B 1	X	z	z	Z	w	W	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	w	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	
L 2	w	Y	Y	Y	X	x	Z	z	w	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	Z	z	w	tv	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	W	IV	Y	
	a				V,														w							w					M
sHin			3 4				7		9	10	ii	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	2D	21	22	23	24	25 1 26		27	28	29	30	31
- ,	z	Z	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	z	w	W	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	w	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	z	w
2	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	Z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X
	T	w																					w								
SHIF	1					s	7			10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26	29	30	
i T	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	z	w	W	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	w	w	W	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	z	w	IV	Y	
2	X	Z	z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	
	I													w							w										
SHIF										10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
i ,	Y	X	X	X	z	z	W	W	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	w	w	IV	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X
2	z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	Z	w	tv	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	Z	w	w
			T	w							w										g							8			
SHIF													13			16	17												29		
H 1	X	z	z	w	W	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	IV	w	W	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	z	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	z
	w	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	Z	tv	tv	Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	z	IV	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	tv	w	tv	Y	Y
		T						w											s	M	f	w		F			M	T	w		
8 $HIF										10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
l t	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	w	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	
1 2	X	X	Z	z	Z	w	w	Y	v	X	X	X	z	z	tv	IV	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	IV	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	
	p					w								r						w	T						W		p		8
SHIR							7	8 9		10	11	12	13	14 15		16	17	18	19	20 21		22	23	24 25		26	27	28	29	30	31
	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	z	w	w	Y	y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y
.. 2	z	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	Z	tv	IV	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	IV	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	Z
				T								p					w			8	8	M			T			8	M		
PfSHIF	1				5 6			Jj»		10	11	12 13		14	15	16	17	16 19		20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30 1	
	X	X	Z	z	w	W	tv	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	z	IV	IV	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	Z	IV	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	
8	wlw		Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	z	w	k	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	w	IN	w	Y	Y	X	x	z	z	z	w	w	
	w														w																
SHIR	1 I 2 fa			4	5 I S		7	8	9	10	11	12	13 I 14 I 1S			16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23 1 24		•25 1 26		27	26	29	30	31
I 1	Z	z	w	w	W	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	z	wlw		Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	y	Y	X	X	z	z	w
1 2	Y	Y	v x	X	X	Z	Z	W	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	w	w	w	Y	Y	x	X	z	Z	z	w w		Y	Y	X
NON-CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE 1993
...... _ F&G..........
					T	w	r	F																			w				3
j SHIFT	i	2	3	4	5	e	7	8	9	10	n	12	13	14	is	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	28	26	27	28	29	30	31 1
5 .	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F		
Y 2	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	0	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G		
			*			S	«			»							W							w							
p SHIFT	1	2	3	4	s	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28			
1 ,	G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F					
y 2	F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G					1
										W							w							w							V
SHIFT	1	2	3	4	5	S	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26	29	30	31
5 1	G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G
" *	F	F	F	F	F			e	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F
							W							w																	
SHIFT	i	2	3	4	5	6	7	a	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
R 1	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G	
L 2	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F	
		s	M	T	w	T	F	S	s	M	T	w	T		s	s	U		w	T	F	8	s	u	T	w	T	F	s	„	M
SHIFT						6		a					13	14		16		18	19	20	21		23	24	25	26		28		30	31
; 1			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F
<			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G
		w							w																						
SHI FI	1	2	3	4	5	E	7	3	9	10	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
i 1	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	
2	G	G	G	G	1		F	F	F	F	F		' |G		G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	
	T						w							w							w										s
: SHIFT	1	2	3		5	6	7	8		10	11	12	13	14	15	is	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F	
2	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G	
											w							W							W						T
SHIR										10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
i 1		G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G
* j		F	F	F	F	F		1°		G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F
	w			S	s	U			T	F					w	T	F		$			w	T	F					w		
SSHIF											11	12	13			16		18		20		22	23		25	‘26		28		30	
l 1	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	P	F	F			G	G	G	G	
E 2	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	
	F	s	s	u	T	w	,		s	S	H	T	Y>	T	F	s	3	II	T	w	T	F	S	$	M	T	w	T	F	s	s
SKIF	1	2	3	4	■5	s			9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	16	19	20]21		22	23	24	25	25	27	28	29	30	31
J	G			'F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G		
i 2	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	f|		
	M	T	w	T	F		S	u	T	w	T	F	s	S	„	T	w	T	F		s	M	T	w	T	F	s	s	M	T	
jfjSHIF																			19 21			22				26				30	
r	F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	
|i	G	G	G	G	G			F	F	I F	F	F			G	G	1°	la	G	JJz			F	F	I F	I F			G	G	
		j	f		«.		T	w	T	F	s	s	„	T	w	7	F	S	s	u	T	w	T	p	s	s	M	7	w	r	F
		?		4	s 1 e		7	B	f	10	i	1?	1:	1	15	1i		1	19	2i	21	22	23	24	25	2b	2				31
[	F	F	F		G		G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	Q			F	F	F	F	F
i	C	G	G	F			F	F		If			G	G	G	,0	lG			.F	F	F	.F	F			G	G	G	G	L
THREE SHIFT SCHEDULE 1993
	.f					w																									
j SHIFT	1	2	3	4	s	6	7	e	9	10 | 11		12	13|14		15	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	20	24	25	26	27 | 26		29	00	31
N 1	J			K	K	K	K	K		I L		L	L	L	L			J	J	J	J	J			K	K	K	K	K		
A 2	K			L	L	L	l	L			J	J	J	J	J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L		
V 3			.1	J	.1	J	J			K	K	K	K	Kl			L	L	L	L	L			J	J	J	J	J			K
			w																					w							
fSHIF1	1	2		4	5			s	9	10	n	12	13	14	is	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	20	24	25	26	27	26			
1 1	L	L	L	L	L			J	J	J	J	J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L					
A 2	J	J	J	J	J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J	J	J	J	J					
r 3	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J			J	J				K	K	K	K			L			
																	w							w							lV
SHIFT	■									10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26	29	30	31
JJ ,	J			J	J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L				J	J					K	K	K
c 2	K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J	J	J	J	J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L
H 3	L	L	L	L			J	J	J	J	J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J	J	J	J
							w																					W			
smn	1	2				6	7 1 8		9	10	n	12	13	14	15 I 1S		17	18	19	20	21	22	20	24	25	26	27	28	29	3U	
	K	K	Mm:			L	L	L	u	>_ I |J			J	J	■J	J			K	K	K	K	Kl		1 *-		L	L	L	L	
	L	L		1 J		J		J	J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L				J				
				K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L		[ J								K	K	K	K	K	[	
	8				w							w																			M
SHIFT													13					16		20			23		25			28	26		
U 1				J						K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J				J			K
Y 2			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J	J		J	J			*	K	K	K	K			L
3		L	L	L	L	L										K	K	K	K	K			L		L	L	L				J
	I	w							w							w							w							w	
SHIFT	1	2	a	4	5	5	7		9	10	11	12	13 I 14		15	16	17 ha		19	20	21	22	20	24	25	26	27	28	26	0(1	
ii 1	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J		J	J	J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	
E 2	L	L	L	L					J	J				K	K	K	K	K			L	L	Jd	L	L			J	J		
3	J		J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J	J	J	j	J			K	K	K	K	
			s			T	w				s	M			T			s	M		w	T			s	M	T	w	T	F	6
SHIFT										10			18					18					20								
J 1	L	L										K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	l|			J	J	J		J	
Y 2					K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J	J			j			K	K	K	K	K	
3				L	L	L	L	L					J			~r		K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L		
		u	T	w	T	F	s	s	M			r			s	M		w	T	F	s	$	M	T	w	T	F	s	s	M	T
SHIF	1 2									10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	00	01
5 1		K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L						J				K	K	K	K	K			L	L
s 2		L	L	L	L	L			J	J			J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L				J
' 3				J				K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J							K	K	K
	W	T	F	s	s	H	T	w	T	F	s	s	14	T	w	T	F	s	s	M	T		T	F	s	s	u	7	IV	r	
										10								18											26	00	
} 1	t	L	L				J	J	J				K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J	J	J		
M 2		J				K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J	J			J			K	K	K	K	
| 3	K	K			L	L	L	L	L				J	J		J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L	
	8	s		M	T	w	T	F	s	s	M	T	w	T	F	8	s	U	t	w	T	F	8	s	M	T	w	T	F	s	s
0SHir													13					18							25	26			26	00	
				K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J	J	J		J			K	K	K	K	K		
2	K			L	L	L	L	L						J	J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L		
" 3			J	J			J			K	K	K	K	K			1-	L	L	L	L			J	J		J				K
			w	r			s			W	T	F				T			F	8			T		T	F	s	s	M	T	
N SHIF													13		15					20						26			29		
	L	L	L	L	L										K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J	J	
15 2		J		J				K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J	J			J			K		
	K	K	K	K			L	»-	L	L	>-			<1	J	J		J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	
	w	T	F	s		u	T	w	T	F			M	r		T		s	8			w	T	F	8	s	M	T	w	7	
r SHIFT										10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19 I 20		21	22	23	24	26	25	27	28	29	30	31
' 1	J	J				K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L		I J		J	J		J			K	K	K	K	K
M 2	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	L			J	J	J	J	J			K	K	K	K	K			L	L	L	L	I
		L		_k		J	J	J				K	«	K	K				L	A	L	L	L			J	J	J	J	J	
CONTINUOUSSHIFT SCHEDULE 1994
					m	T	F	s				w					u	i	w					u		w				s	u
4 SHIFT	1	2	a	4	5	6	1	#	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
B 1	A	A	C	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B
5 2	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A
	T	w				S			w								T						w		F						
f SHIFT	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	e	9	10	n	12	13	14	15	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26			
| 1	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D			
? 2	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	0	C	C			
									w							w							w							w	
	1	2	3	4	5	e	7	s	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26	29	30	31
R '	A	A	A	c	c	C	B	B	B	0	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	C	B
H 2	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	0	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A
						w							w							w							w				
																															
	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	
	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	0	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	c	B	
											w							w							w						T
SHIFT	1	2	3	4	s	s	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	is	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
“ 1	A	A	c	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B
2	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A
	w							w														w							w		
SHIFT		2	3	4	s	a	7	8	9	10	11 1 12		13	14	15	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
i .	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	
* ,	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	
													w																		
SHIFT										1U			13					16	19			22		24		26	27		29	30	
i 1	A	C	c	c	B	B	B	0	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	0	A	A	A	c	c	C	B	B	B
' *	B	0	0	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	c	B	B	B	D	D	p	A	A	
			w							w														w		F					w
SHIR		2			s	6				10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	16	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	23	29	30	31
S 1	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c
? *	C	C	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D
														w							w							w			
S SHIF1	tl2									10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
l 1	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	C	B	B	B	D	
I 2	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	0	D	A	A	A	C	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	
	s	a	M	T	w	T	F	a		M	T	w	T	F	S	S	u	T	w	T		S	s	M	T		T	F	S	<,	U
SHIP													13							20	21				26						
o 1	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	C	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	C
1 2	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	C	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	C	C	B	B	B	D	D
	T	w	T	F	s	s	M	T	w	T	F	s	3	M	7	w	T	F	s	S	M	T	w		F	s	s	u	r	w	
N SHIFT		2	3	4	S | 6		7	a	9	10	11	12	12	1«	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
l	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B	B	D	0	D	A	A	A	c	c	c	B	B	B	D	D	
E 2	D	A	A	A	C	C	c	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	C	C	
	j	F	s	s	M	T	<v	T	F	s		M	T	vr	r	F	S	S		T	w	T	F	g	s	M	T	VI	T	F	g
				4 1 S		6	7	a				17	If	1'	1b	Hi	17		1S	ns	21		23 I 24								
|	D	A	A	A	C	c	c	B	E	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	C	B	B	B	D	D	D	A	A	A	c	c	C
I	C	B	E	E	D	D	D	A	A	A	G	C	C	B	E	E	D	0	D	A	A	A	C	C	Ic	E	E	E	I □	D	lD
CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE 1994 Q&R
CONTINUOUSSHIFT SCHEDULE1994
___________S &T'
jSHin o 1 y 2	1		3		5	8	7		9	10	11	12	13	14	is	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s
																															
									w							w							w					u			
F SHIFT											11	12			is				19		21		23 24		25	26	27	28			
| ,	$	s	T	T	T	8	S	S	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T			
? 2																															
		W							w							W														W T	
SHIFT			3		5				9		11		13		15				19		21		23					26		30	
5	T	s	$	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	S	S	s	T	T	T
H j																											_L				
						w							w							w							w			8	
SHIFT	i	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14 1 15		16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	25	29	30	
i 1	S	s	S	T	T	T	$	s	s	T	T	T	s	8	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	
1 *																															
				»							w							w							w					U T	
SHIFT	1	2	3	4	5	s	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	16	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
“ 1	s	8	s	T	T	T	s	8	s	T	T	T	s	8	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	
2																															
	w							w							V*							w								T	
SHIFT									9			12	13		15	16	17		19	20	21	22	23		25		27		29	30	
U 1	s	S	T	T	T	s	s	8	T	T	T	s	s	S	T	T	T	$	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	
6 ,																															
						*																					w			s $	
SHIFT	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	9	9	10	11	12	13	14	15 I 16		17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26	29	30	31
i 1	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	8	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	S
’ 2																															
			w														w							w							W
[SHIFT				4			7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
I '	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	S	s	T	T	T	s	S S	
1 2																															
														w							w							w		p	
S SHIFT										10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
l 1	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	
! 2																															
	s	5	M	T	w	T	F	s			T	w	T	p	g		M	T	w		p	g	8	u	T	*	T	p	$	g	
SHIF			3				7	a 9		10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	*	26	27	28	29	30	
0 1	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	$	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	
i																		I—													
	T	w	T	p	s	S		T	w	T	p	8	$	u	T	w	T	p	s	8	H	T	W	T	f	s	s	M	T	w .	
					s				9			12								20		22	*	24		»	27		28		
i t	T	T	S	s	S	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	8	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	
i 2																					J				J						
	T	p	S	a	U	T	w	T	p	s		M	T	W	T	p	8	a	M	T	w	T	p	8	s	U	t	w	T	F	
OSHIF																															
C	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	$	T	T	T	S	s	s	T	T	T	s	s	s	T	T	T	$	s	s	T	
|																															
CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE 1994 SHIFT ELECTRICIANS___________
	[-2-	rf	l-H-	r~	rsi	rf	rf	-f-	rf	rf	rf	if	rf	pf	rf	rf		—	rf	20	rf	rf	23	f	f	26	—	f	f	30	31
5 «	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	Z	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	w	W	w	Y
? 2	X	X	Z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z
									w																						
pSHin													13						19	20			23								
i ,	Y	X	X	z	z	z	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	w	W	W	Y			
V 2	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z			I	
	T	w				s	„			T	p	S											W		F					w	
shift										10																					
s ,	Y	X	X	z	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X
“ 2	Z	WW		Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	Z	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	Z	w	w
						w	r	p	B		M	T								w							w				
SHIFT															15					20								28			
B 1	z	z	z	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	W	Y		V	X	X	Z	Z	w	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	
^ 2	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	
																		w													
																															31
: ,	Z	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	W	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	W	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	Z	w	w
2	Y	x	X	Z	Z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	Z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X
	w							w														w							w		
SHIP!																												28			
i 1	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	w	w	W	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	
2	Z	Z	w	WW		Y	Y	X	X2		z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	
	F		S	u	T	w		p					w		F					w								T			s
SHIFl										10	11	12	10	14	15	is	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
i 1	X	X	X	z	z	W	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	w	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X
' 2	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	w	w	w
			w							w							w							w							W
SHIFl										10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	26	29	30	31
I 1	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	Z	w
i ,	Y	Y	X	X	z		z	WW		Y	Y	X	X	X	Z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	Z	w	w	w	Y	Y	x
														w							»							w			
SHin																16							23						29	30	
	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	w	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	z	W	W	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	
R 2	X	Z	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	Z	
		S		T		T	F	S	S	u	T	w	T					T			F						T				H
. SHIR										10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	'll	26	29	30	31
0 1	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X
2	Z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	*	Z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	Xlz		Z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	5Z		Z	Z	w
	T	w				S	u				F				r						u			T				U		w	
j SHIFT							7 8			10	11	12 13		14	15	is	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
f ,	X	z	z	w	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	
. *	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	w	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	Z	Z	Z	w	w	Y	
																					w										
															15			1#				22			2b			26			31
	z	W	w	w	Y	Y	X	X	z	z	Z	W	w	Y	Y	X	X	X	z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	Z	z	W	w
. *	Y	X	X	X	Z	z	w	w	Y	Y	Y	X	X	z	Z	w	WW		Y	Y	X	x	z	Z	Z	w	w	Y	Y	x	X
NON-CONTINUOUS SHIFT SCHEDULE 1994
............F& G t _ r _ _ ..
j SHIFT	1	2	3	4	s	6	7	B	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17.	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
■ .			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G
			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F
TWTF SSttTWTFSSMTWTFSSBT WTfSSM																															
F shift Y 2	1	2	3	4	s	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28			
	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G			
	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F			
T W T F SS UTWT FSSMTWT FSSUTWT f ssutwt																															
H 2																									26			28	29		
	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G
	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F F		F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F
FSSMTWTF8SM .TWTFS .8HTWTFSSMTWTF5																															
shift	1	2	3	4	s	6	7	B	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G		
	F			0	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F		
sutwtfsshtw tfssutwtfssmtwtfssht																															
; ,	1	2	3	4	s	6	7	8	9	10	ii	12	13	14	16	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
		F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F
		G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G
WlF-SSUTWTFSSMTY/TFSSWTWTFSSMTWT																															
‘ ■												12	13			16					21	22		24	25		27	28	29	30	
	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	
	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	0	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	
fssuty/tfssmtwtfssutwtfssmtwtfss																															
SHIFT	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	Q			F	F	F	F	F		
	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	0	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G		
MTWTFSSMTWTFS														SMTWTF8SMTWTFSSUTW																	
I	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	a	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G
	F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F
TFSSHTY/TFSSWTWTFSSMTWTFSSUTWTF																															
| SHIFT	1				5			8	9			12	13			16					21	22		24	25			28	29	30	
	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G	
	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F	
SSMTWTFSSUTWTFSSMTVYTFSSBTWTFSSH																															
SHIFT			3				7 8								15		17 | 18														
			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F
			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G
TWTFSSXTWTFSSU r W TFSSMTWTFSSMTW																															
L SHIFT	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	B	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	
	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	
	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	L
tfssmtwtfssmtwtf sshtwtfssmtwtfs																															
																									25						
	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F	
	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G			F	F	F	F	F			G	G	G	G	G	
THREE SHIFT SCHEDULE 1994