MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Entered into in quintuplicate as of the 28th day of January, 2010
BY AND BETWEEN:
INVISTA (Canada) Company, hereinafter called the "Company"
and
Kingston Independent Nylon Workers Union, hereinafter called the "Union".
WITNESSETH THAT:
The parties hereto have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I - SCOPE
(a)	In this agreement:
(i)	"said Site" means the Company's nylon manufacturing plant located in the City of Kingston, County of Frontenac in Ontario, known as its Kingston Site.
(ii)	"employee" means anyone employed by the Company at the said Site who is paid at an hourly rate, save and except office staff, guards, forepersons and persons above the rank of foreperson.
(b)
This agreement covers all employees as herein defined.
For purposes of clarification the parties recognize that this agreement applies to Kingston Site employees assigned to the Company's Customer Technical Centre and Research Centre located in the City of Kingston.
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION
(a)	The Company recognizes the Union during the term of this agreement as the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect of wages, benefits, hours of work, seniority, grievance procedure and such other working conditions as are included in this agreement.
(b)	The Union recognizes the right ofthe Company:

2
(i)	to manage the said Site and to direct the working forces including the right to hire, promote, transfer or classify any employee and to demote, discipline, suspend or terminate the employment of any employee for anyjustifiable reason. Justifiable reason for the termination of employment of any employee who has not achieved seniority status shall be determined by the Company. Such determination shall not be made in bad faith or in an arbitrary manner;
(ii)	to change hours of work, determine or change work assignments or methods, classify new occupations and select the materials to be handled, processed or manufactured;
(iii)	to make and alter from time to time rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this agreement to be observed by the employees.
ARTICLE III - CO-OPERATION
(a)	Recognizing that the general standard of living can be raised only through increased productivity and that in most respects the best interests of the Company and its employees are synonymous, the Union pledges itself to co-operate fully with the Company to improve production methods, increase efficiency, promote safety and to develop good work habits among employees.
(b)	The Company shall maintain in place pursuant to Schedule “B” hereof benefit plans providing: life insurance, A.D.& D., dental insurance and health care insurance.
The Company’s obligation is to pay its portion of the premiums as provided for in Schedule “B” and nothing in the Schedule shall be read as implying or creating any greater obligation.
(c)	The Company will maintain in place a Short Term Disability (S.T.D.) plan, essentially similar to that in place upon the expiry of the previous Collective Agreement that provides the following benefits:
For up to 26 weeks,
•	after 24 hour waiting period, the balance of the first six (6)weeks - 85% of pay
•	the next twenty (20) weeks - 70% pay
The benefit is payable subject to the terms of the plan. The Company may insure the plan in which case its obligation is to pay the premium.
(d)	The Company will pay the premium for a Long Term Disability (L.T.D) plan, essentially similar to that in place upon the expiry of the previous Collective Agreement.
(e)	The Company will continue its current Pension Plan applicable to employees in the bargaining unit during the term of this Collective Agreement subject to any changes required by law.
3
(f)	Employees shall be granted vacation in accordance with Schedule “C” attached hereto.
(g)	While the Company fully expects to continue these benefit policies indefinitely, it reserves the right to discontinue or amend a plan or policy at any time, provided, however, that no such discontinuance, and no amendment will have the effect of terminating or reducing in the aggregate the benefits provided. No such limitation shall apply, however, if the discontinuance or amendment results directly or indirectly from any government action which either:
(i)	requires the Company to effect such discontinuance or amendment, or
(ii)	provides a benefit or benefits which when considered together with the results of the Company’s actual or proposed discontinuance or amendment does not in the aggregate occasion any loss or reduction of benefits to the participants.
(h)	The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize, or sanction, nor permit its members to cause or take part in (and it is agreed that the Company may discharge any employee who causes or takes part in) any sit-down, stay-in or slow-down in any department or any strike or stoppage of any of the Company’s operations or any curtailment of work or restriction of or interference with production or any picketing of the Company’s premises during the term of this agreement.
(i)	The Company agrees that it will not cause or sanction a lockout during the term of this agreement.
(j)	The Company agrees that the Union may post notices in the said Site on notice boards supplied by the Company for such purposes provided that such notices have been individually approved in writing by the Company.
The Union agrees that it will not distribute or post any pamphlets, advertising or political matter, cards, notices or any kind of literature, within the said Site or its appurtenances except as provided in this agreement.
(k)	Members of the Union not exceeding ten (10) in number on any one day may be granted occasional leave of absence without pay for the purpose of attending normal functions of the said Union such as steward, executive, or general meetings and training courses.
(l)	During the term of this agreement the Company will deduct the amount of the regular Union membership dues from the wages of each employee.
The Company shall remit to a recognized Canadian financial institution duly designated from time to time by the Union, for deposit to the Union’s account, the total of all amounts so deducted not later than ten (10) days after the deduction has been made. The Company will at the same time forward a list of all
4
employees from whose wages such deductions have been made and a list of the changes to the deduction list since the last payment to the Union.
(m)	There shall be no discrimination, intimidation, interference, restraint, coercion, or attempted coercion by or on behalf of the Company or by or on behalf of the Union, its members or its agents with respect to any employee because of membership or non-membership in the Union.
(n)	No one shall conduct Union activities at the said Site during working hours except as specifically permitted in this agreement.
(o)	The Company agrees to continue the system whereby vacancies in certain classifications in Schedule "A" are posted for not less than fourteen (14) days on the bulletin board in the said Site. The Company further agrees to inform the Union concerning the content of each notice prior to posting, and to inform a committee of the Union forty-eight (48) hours in advance of the announcement of selection to fill such vacancies.
(p)	During a new or rehired employee's induction the Company agrees to permit the Union reasonable time for discussion with the employee.
(q)	An employee, hired and designated as a Fibre Trainee, who is retained after completion of twelve (12) cumulative months of active employment shall no longer be designated as temporary, provided the period of lapse of employment does not exceed twelve (12) months on any occasion.
ARTICLE IV - REPRESENTATION
The Company agrees to recognize fifty-two (52) stewards, one of whom shall be the Chief Steward, to represent fifty-one (5 1) groups of employees. The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names of the stewards and of the Chief Steward. A steward will be allowed to leave his/her duties for a reasonable length oftime to investigate and settle grievances in his/her group without loss oftime or pay provided that he/she obtains prior authorization from his/her foreperson. A member of the Union Bargaining Committee will be allowed to leave his/her duties for a reasonable length oftime to prepare for Step 3 of the grievance procedure without loss oftime or pay provided that he/she obtains prior authorization from his/her foreperson.
The Company agrees to recognize a Union Bargaining Committee composed of not more than seven (7) employees.
The Union Bargaining Committee shall have the right of meeting the appointed representative or representatives of the Company at a predetermined date and time, normally once every month. Members who happen to be on duty shall be paid straight time for that part of their regularly scheduled working hours devoted to attendance at such meetings held on Company property.
5
ARTICLE V - HOURS OF WORK
(a)	The normal number of daily hours of work shall be either eight (8), and shall vary from eight (8) hours for six (6) days in a week to eight (8) hours for two (2) days in a week, or twelve (12), and shall vary from twelve (12) hours for four (4) days in a week to twelve (12) hours for one (1) day in a week, or a combination of two (2) twelve (12) and two (2) eight (8) hour days in a week, in accordance with schedules established from time to time. It is understood that the day of rest shall be Sunday for day workers.
(b)	The normal number of daily hours of work is stated solely for the purpose of calculating overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of any minimum nor as a restriction on any maximum number of hours to be worked.
(c)	It is understood that employees shall be at their work place and ready to assume their duties at the commencement of their working day.
(d)	The Company undertakes to communicate to the steward of the group any change proposed by the Company in work assignments or in the hours of work which affects the majority of employees in such group, before the change becomes effective.
(e)	The Company shall schedule one (1) rest period often (10) minutes' duration in each half of the working day.
(f)	Day workers shall be granted a five (5) minute wash-up period before their luncheon period. A period of five (5) minutes before the end of their working day shall be granted as needed for the purpose of putting away tools, cleaning work benches, making out time report sheets and washing up. Employees engaged in unusually dirty work may be allowed extra washing time, at the discretion of their foreperson.
(g)	An employee may work extra hours beyond the regular scheduled work day and beyond forty-eight (48) hours in a week. This provision is agreed to in order to comply with the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE VI - OVERTIME AND OTHER ALLOWANCES
(a)	Employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work required to be performed in excess of the normal number of daily hours of work in any one day or in any continuous period, provided however, that they shall be paid at the rate of double time, instead of at the rate of time and one-half, for all hours worked in excess of four (4) hours beyond the normal number of daily hours of work in any one day or in any continuous period.
(b)	Employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work required to be performed on their regularly assigned day of rest. They shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work required to be performed on their extra day of rest, provided however, that they shall be paid at the rate of double time instead of at the rate of time and one-half, for all hours worked in excess of four (4) hours beyond the normal number of daily hours of work on that day or in any continuous period.
6
(c)	An employee shall, subject to the second paragraph of this clause, be paid an amount equivalent to eight (8) hours pay at his/her straight time hourly rate for the following holidays whether or not he/she works on such holidays: New Years Day, Family Day, Monday of the School Winter Holidays, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Third Friday in July, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and 26th December.
However, employees shall not be entitled to be so paid:
(i)	if they do not work on such holidays when they are required or scheduled to do so. Notwithstanding the foregoing, they shall be entitled to be so paid when leave of absence has been granted for paid disability, jury duty or bereavement.
(ii)	if they were absent without good cause on the scheduled working day immediately preceding or succeeding such holiday.
(iii)	if they are absent for any reason on both the scheduled working days immediately preceding and succeeding such holidays. Notwithstanding the foregoing, they shall be entitled to be so paid if such absence is due to their scheduled vacation or when leave of absence has been granted for paid disability, jury duty or bereavement.
(iv)	if such holiday occurs while they are on leave of absence, subject to the same exceptions as set out in subsection (iii) above.
(d)	An employee who works on the following holidays: New Year’s Day, Family Day, Monday of the School Winter Holidays, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Third Friday in July, Civic Holiday and 26th December shall be paid in addition thereto at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked on that day or in any continuous period.
An employee who works on any of the following holidays: Good Friday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be paid in addition thereto at the rate of double time for all hours worked on that day or in any continuous period.
If another day is substituted by statute or municipal proclamation or by mutual agreement between the parties for the observance of any of the holidays listed in clause (c) the day of observance so substituted shall be deemed to be the holiday for the purpose of this Article VI.
If employees are required by the Company to report to the said Site to perform work at other than their regularly scheduled working hours, they shall be paid a minimum amount equivalent to pay for three (3) hours at their applicable overtime rate if their pay for the performance of such work is less than this amount, except when such work forms a continuous period with their regularly scheduled working hours, in which case no minimum shall apply. If they are entitled to the payment provided in clause (c), this minimum amount shall be paid in addition thereto for the performance of such work on a holiday.
If employees are required by the Company to report to the said Site to perform work at other than their regularly scheduled working hours, they shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked at other than their regularly
7
scheduled working hours, provided however, that they shall be paid at the rate of double time instead of at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of four (4) hours beyond the normal number of daily hours of work on that day or in any continuous period. In any event, they shall be paid at the straight time rate only, for regularly scheduled hours worked. When an employee is sent home by the Company during his/her regularly scheduled working hours to return later that day, premium rates under this provision shall be calculated as if he/she had completed his/her normal number of daily hours.
If employees are required by the Company to report to the said Site on less than four (4) hours' notice to perform work at other than their regularly scheduled working hours, the Company will provide transportation to the said Site for those employees or will pay them one (1) hour's pay at their straight time rate. If they are entitled to payment under the provisions of clause (a), (b), (d), or (f), this travelling allowance shall be paid in addition thereto.
If an employee reports for work when scheduled to do so without having been previously notified not to report he/she shall be provided three (3) hours' work at his/her straight time rate or, in lieu thereof, shall receive three (3) hours' pay at this straight time rate, provided however, that the employee shall not be entitled to such work or such pay:
(i)	if the failure to provide work is due to circumstances beyond the control of the Company.
(ii)	if the employee has not provided the Company with his/her correct telephone number or cannot be reached at that number.
Whenever an employee's schedule is changed by the Company so as to result in regularly scheduled working hours with new starting and finishing times, the employee shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work performed during his/her first working day following such change unless thirty (30) or more hours' notice prior to the commencement of the calendar week of the employee's new schedule in which the change occurs has been given to him/her by the Company, provided however, that he/she shall be paid at the rate of double time instead of at the rate of time and one-half, for all hours worked in excess of four (4) hours beyond the normal number of daily hours of work in any one day or in any continuous period.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article VI an employee shall not be paid at the rate of time and one-half, or double time as the case may be, for overtime work if such overtime work, with the permission of the foreperson, is performed by the employee at his/her own request or by special arrangement with another or other employees who may wish to change or exchange working hours.
For the purpose of establishing which shift crew employees, regularly scheduled to work on Sunday, shall receive Sunday premium and the premium pay for work performed on the holidays shown in clause (c) of this Article VI, the day shall extend from midnight to midnight for employees assigned to schedules with normal eight-hour days and from 1930 hours on one day to 1930 hours on the next day for employees assigned to schedules with normal twelve-hour days. But for all other purposes any day shall be deemed to be a twenty-four hour period as shown in schedules established from time to time.
8
(l)	When hours of work which are paid at a premium rate under the provisions of this Article continue without interruption into a second day, such hours in the second day up to the starting time of an employee's regularly scheduled working hours will be treated for the purposes of applying provisions of this Article as if they had occurred in the previous day.
(m)	An employee shall not be entitled to be paid under more than one clause of this Article, unless otherwise specifically provided, and in any event the rate of payment including holiday and other allowances but excluding the minimum payment and travelling allowances provided in clauses (f) and (g) shall not exceed three (3) times the straight time hourly rate.
(n)	An overtime meal allowance up to the value of $9.25 shall be provided in accordance with an Overtime Meal Allowance Procedure.
(o)	The Company may average the regular hours of scheduled work over a two (2) week period for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the overtime provisions of the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE VII - WAGES - CLASSIFICATION
(a)	The classification of all occupations and the wage rates appear in Schedule "A" attached hereto, which is made part of this agreement and is signed for identification by the parties hereto. It is agreed that when a new classification is created or an existing classification is substantially changed by the Company, the Company will discuss the change with the Union.
(b)	While an employee may at any time discuss his/her classification with his/her foreperson, no request for a change in the classification of such employee need be entertained by the Company unless presented to the Company within thirty (30) days following the date of the classification or of the change in classification to which such employee objects.
(c)	A successful applicant for promotion, whose appointment is delayed because of the needs of the Company, and whose place is taken by another employee, will be credited with time and experience, and receive any applicable higher wage rate, as if their place had not been taken.
(d)	Employees who successfully apply to enter a training program leading to qualification as a first class maintenance technician, or stationary engineer 2nd class will enter the program at the trainee level, but will receive an hourly rate equivalent to the higher of their former classification rate or the trainee rate.
(e)	An employee who is successful in posting to a new classification and who is not immediately classified at the top classification in that line of progression, may not engage in further posting activity until such time as he/she worked at the top classification for a period equivalent to the progression period. In the event the posting occurs to a new classification not in a line of progression, the employee may not engage in further posting activity for two (2) years.
(f)	An employee having acquiredjob experience in a posted classification and, on being regressed from that posted job because of lack of work, will return to their
9
previously held classification, provided their seniority holds them there. That employee shall hold reserve status in that particular posted job for a period not exceeding three years from date of transfer from the particular posted job classification. If a summer student is placed in the posted classification, such reserve status will begin from the time the student leaves.
(g)	In keeping with the Company's performance based culture, the Company may
introduce a discretionary bonus system and/or other incentive systems based upon such criteria as it determines in its absolute discretion reflect an overall contribution of the Company's success. Bonus and/or other incentive payments, if made, will be made at the time, manner and frequency of the Company's selection and are in addition to the wage rates and premiums set out herein. The Company may, from time to time, publish details of such discretionary bonus or incentive system.
ARTICLE VIII - SENIORITY
(a)	An employee, other than anyone hired and designated as temporary, shall acquire seniority status after he/she has been in the employ of the Company for a probationary period of one hundred and eighty (1 SO) consecutive days. It is understood that in cases of absence beyond ten (10) consecutive days, the Company may extend the probationary period by the total number of consecutive days absent.
(b)	Seniority shall govern on all occasions when:
(i)	a layoff which the Company expects to remain in effect for more than one (1) week occurs provided employees are sufficiently qualified. Sufficiently qualified shall be deemed to mean that the employee is qualified to perform the normal duties of the j ob. In the event of a workforce reduction, employees designated as temporary will be terminated before any regular employee.
(ii)	a transfer or a promotion to a classification included in Schedule "A" which the Company expects to remain in effect for more than thirty (30) days occurs, provided however, that the senior employee has qualifications equal to or better than those of other employees. If any such temporary layoff, transfer or promotion should subsequently become permanent, or
exceed the stipulated time limits, the provisions of this clause (b) shall apply immediately but such application shall be without retroactive effect.
For the purpose of this Agreement, seniority shall be calculated from the date an employee first enters the bargaining unit under this Collective Agreement with the Company or its predecessor. Employees who leave the bargaining unit and transfer to a non-bargaining unit role, shall maintain and continue to accumulate seniority for thirty-six (36) months of subsequent employment with the Company or its predecessor except that following thirty-six (36) cumulative months of subsequent employment, only seniority accumulated as a member of the bargaining unit will be maintained. It is understood by the parties that this
10
paragraph applies only to employees who leave the bargaining unit and transfer to a non-bargaining unit role, subsequent to January 28, 2007. It is understood that employees who left the bargaining unit, for any reason, prior to January 28, 2007 shall maintain and continue to accumulate seniority for the total period of their subsequent employment with the Company or its predecessor. An employee’s seniority shall be lost if the employee is laid off for more than eighteen (18) months. This paragraph shall not apply to anyone hired and designated as temporary.
An employee, other than anyone hired and designated as temporary, who is laid off for two (2) weeks or less as the result of a layoff which the Company expects to remain in effect for two (2) weeks or less, will be credited with seniority for such period upon return to work from such layoff.
(d)	When an employee who has been in a classification for twenty-six (26) or more consecutive weeks is regressed to a lower classification due to lack of work, he/she will be given four (4) weeks’ notice of such regression or paid at the rate of the higher classification in lieu of such notice.
(e)	Seniority shall terminate and an employee shall cease to be employed by the Company if:
i)	the employee is absent from active employment for a period of twenty-four (24) months calculated from the period the absence commenced.
ii)	the employee is absent for three (3) consecutive working days without notifying the Company of the absence and providing reasons satisfactory to the Company for such absence.
(f)	An employee laid off for a period greater than two (2) weeks will receive two (2) week’s notice of layoff. This provision does not apply to an employee designated as temporary.
(g)	When employment offers are made, employees who were laid off during the preceding eighteen (18) months and who are qualified for the job orjobs available shall be offered employment on the basis of seniority accumulated prior to layoff. Any person being recalled under this clause shall not be designated as temporary. The Company shall be under no obligation to recall such a former employee unless he/she has filed his/her current address and telephone number with the Company for this purpose, can be reached when the opportunity for recall arises and is available for work when his/her services are required.
In the event that a laid off employee fails to accept recall, other than of a temporary nature, the Company may consider that he/she no longer wishes to be recalled.
(h)
(i)
The Company agrees to post seniority lists showing the seniority status of each employee and to furnish a copy of such lists to the Union.
The Company agrees to alter the seniority lists from time to time and to correct any errors therein whenever proof of error is submitted by the Union or any
employee. No change shall be made in the seniority status of an employee without consultation with the Union.
11
ARTICLE IX - SEVERANCE PAY
An employee who has one (1) year or more of seniority shall be paid severance
pay if his/her employment is terminated due to lack of work, except that such pay
will not be paid when employment is terminated:
(i) due to circumstances beyond the direct control of the Company including, without limitation, fire, flood, power failure or hostile acts of foreign governments, or to strike or other labour dispute whether or not the Company is directly involved, transportation difficulties, material shortages and the like, or regulations or controls established by any governmental authority; or
(b)	It is understood that severance pay will not be paid to an employee when:
(i)	the termination is for any reason other than lack of work;
(ii)	the employee accepts employment at any Company location, or with an affiliated company, before termination becomes effective;
(iii)	the employee is offered employment with a successor company at the same location before termination becomes effective;
(iv)	the employee becomes a pensioner;
(v)	the employee resigns, even in anticipation of termination;
(vi)	the employee elects layoff in lieu of demotion, promotion, transfer or any change in status. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an employee in the classifications of Stationary Engineer 2nd Class or 1 st Class Maintenance Technician who is demoted due to lack of work, will be given the option of being terminated by the Company due to lack of work.
The amount of an employee's severance pay, subject to the foregoing provisions of this Article, shall be:
(i) one (1) week's pay for each of the first four (4) years of seniority, plus
(ii) one (1) week's pay for each year of seniority over four (4) and an additional week's pay for each year of seniority over fifteen (1 5).
(iii)	The amount of severance pay payable in case of termination shall be limited to fifty-two (52) weeks' pay. Partial years, after the first full year, shall be computed to the nearest full month, including the month in which the employee is laid off if the employee has accumulated fifteen (15) or more days of seniority in that month, and the rate ofone-twelfth (1/12) of one (1) or two (2) weeks' pay as the case may be, shall be applicable for each such month.
12
For severance pay purposes a week's pay shall be equal to the employee's current straight time hourly rate multiplied by the number of hours, not to exceed forty (40), constituting the employee's normal number of weekly hours of work at the said Site at any time of termination, and shall not include overtime or any other premium pay or allowance.
Employees who elect to receive severance pay shall forfeit all seniority and recall rights. For the purposes of clarity, employees who elect to receive severance pay pursuant to this Article shall be entitled to severance pay after a layoff of 26 weeks.
The Company may elect to pay severance pay in weekly installments or in a lump sum.
ARTICLE X - SAFETY AND HEALTH
(a)	The Company will continue to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment. Such protective devices as the Company requires to be worn and other equipment which in the opinion of the Company is necessary to protect the employee from injury shall be provided by the Company.
(b)	Whenever the Company recommends to the employees for their better protection the use of additional personal safety equipment which it does not supply free of charge, it will make such equipment available to employees at cost, except that should safety shoes not be stocked by the Company, it will subsidize the purchase of these shoes for the personal use of the purchaser.
The subsidy will be the lesser of the cost per pair or $112.00 for the first pair purchased in each calendar year, and the lesser of the cost per pair or $75.00 for subsequent pairs purchased in each calendar year.
ARTICLE XI - DISCHARGES
The Company agrees to notify the Union of the reason for the discharge of any employee. Such notice shall be given in writing and mailed by registered mail addressed to the President of the Union within seventy-two (72) hours of the discharge. Regardless of the foregoing, at the point of discharge, a regular employee may request the presence of a Union Officer or Steward. Any discharge may be discussed as a grievance, provided that the grievance is submitted in writing within seven (7) days after receipt of notification of discharge by the Union. In the event that an employee is discharged and after subsequent investigation is exonerated and reinstated he/she shall be reimbursed for the time lost by reason of such discharge on the basis of his/her normal number of daily hours of work less earnings received from other employers in respect to the period for which he/she is to be reimbursed.
In the event that an employee is discharged and is not exonerated by subsequent investigation, a lesser penalty may be substituted where, in the opinion of an arbitrator, the penalty of discharge is considered to be inappropriate.
ARTICLE XII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13
(a)	Any dispute, grievance or misunderstanding (hereinafter called "grievance") involving occupational classification, wages, the benefits plans, seniority, hours of work or other working conditions which any employee or group of employees may desire to discuss and adjust with the Company, shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
(b)	While an employee may discuss a grievance with his/her foreperson at any time, a request for retroactive adjustment need not be entertained by the Company unless the grievance is presented in writing within thirty (30) days of the date of the incident which gave rise to the grievance. Any grievance shall be deemed to have been withdrawn if, after a written decision has been given at either step 1 or step 2, more than thirty (30) days have elapsed before the grievance is carried to the next step.
The employee shall first take up his/her grievance directly with the foreperson of his/her department. If the matter is not resolved by the foreperson, it shall be handled as follows:
Step 1
The employee may report the matter to the steward designated to represent his/her group, who, together with the employee may take up the matter with the foreperson and shall at the same time present to the foreperson a written summary of the grievance. If the written decision of the foreperson does not settle the matter to the satisfaction of the employee or three (3) regularly scheduled working days of the employee have elapsed since the grievance was submitted under the provisions of this step, the employee and the steward may:
Step 2
Submit the grievance to the appropriate Manager or his/her appointee. If the written decision of the Manager or appointee does not settle the matter to the satisfaction of the employee or fourteen (14) days have elapsed since the grievance was submitted under the provisions of this step, the steward may:
Step 3
Submit the grievance in writing to the Union Bargaining Committee which may bring the matter to the attention of the Site Manager by presenting to him/her or his/her appointee the written statement of the grievance. The Union Bargaining Committee may then discuss the grievance with the Site Manager or appointee at a time to be agreed upon. A grievor may attend the discussion of his/her grievance at the mutual consent of the Company and the Union. If the written decision of the Site Manager or appointee does not settle the matter to the satisfaction of the Union Bargaining Committee or six (6Jweeks have elapsed since the grievance was submitted under this step, the provisions of Article XIII may be invoked.
All decisions arrived at by agreement between the Site Manager or appointee and the Union Bargaining Committee with respect to any grievance shall be made in writing and shall be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
14
(e) Nothing in this agreement shall be deemed to take away the right of an individual employee to present any personal grievance to the Company.
ARTICLE XIII - ARBITRATION
(a)	Within a period of fourteen (14) weeks after a matter has been brought to the attention of the Site Manager, any grievance or other matter in dispute between the Company and the Union, involving the interpretation or alleged violation of any Article of this agreement may, in the event of failure to reach agreement thereon, be referred by either party to arbitration by an arbitrator selected as follows:
0)
00
(iii)
the party desiring arbitration shall notify the other party in writing of the matter to be arbitrated and propose three (3) arbitrators; the party receiving the notice shall, within ten (10) days, notify the other party of either its agreement to one of the proposed arbitrators or its proposal of a further three (3) arbitrators.
should the party originally desiring arbitration fail to accept one of the arbitrators proposed in (ii) above, within ten (10) days, either party may apply to the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to appoint the arbitrator.
(b)	The arbitrator shall convene a hearing into the matter in dispute and issue an
award, in writing, to both the Company and the Union, within sixty (60) days of completion of the hearing.
(c)	The decision of the arbitrator on the matter at issue shall be final and binding on both parties but in no event shall the arbitrator have the power to add to, subtract from, alter or amend this agreement in any respect.
(d)	Each party shall pay its own costs and the fees and expenses of the witnesses
called by it. Fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally between the parties.
(e)	Time limits specified in this article shall be deemed to be exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and those holidays described in Article VI (c) of this agreement and may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
ARTICLE XIV - TERMINATION
(a)	This agreement shall become effective as of the 28th day of January, 2010, and shall remain in full force and effect until the 27th day of January, 2013.
(b)	Either party may on ten (10) clear days' notice in writing, require the other party to enter into negotiations for the renewal of the agreement within the period of two (2) months prior to the expiry date and both parties shall thereupon enter into such negotiations in good faith and make every reasonable effort to secure such renewal.
The party giving notice in accordance with clause (b) hereof shall at the same time as such notice is issued, and the party receiving the notice shall within ten
(10) days of its receipt of such notice, respectively present to the other party in writing any proposed modifications or revisions of this agreement.
15
ARTICLE XV - NOTICE
Notices provided in Articles XIII and XIV shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by mail addressed, if to the Union, to the President of the Union and, if to the Company, to the Site Manager at the said Site.
ARTICLE XVI - SUCCESSOR IN BUSINESS
This agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successor in business of the Company at the said Site.
INVISTA (Canada) Company	Kingston Independent Nylon Workers
Union
Site Manager - Kingston Site	IJnionPresident - KINWU
Negotiations Team:	Bargaining Committee:
16
WAGE INCREASES SCHEDULE“A”
17
Employees hired into Maintenance with apprentice qualifications, but without journeyman certification, will receive: seventy-five percent (75%) of Trainee rate; eighty' five percent (85%) of Maintenance Technician 3rd class rate; ninety percent (90%) of Maintenance Technician 2nd class rate until such time a Certificate of Qualification is attained.
Premiums
An employee who is appointed to the role of shift engineer shall receive eighty-four ($0.84) cents per hour more than his/her classification rate during the period of his/her appointment.
An employee who is engaged in the work of a fire captain shall receive eighty-four ($0.84) cents per hour more than his/her classification rate for the shifts that he/she undertakes this work.
An employee engaged in shift work shall be paid a premium of ninety ($0.90) cents per hour for work performed during the evening shift and one dollar and twenty-one cents ($1.2 1) per hour for work performed during the night shift. An employee engaged in shift work, whose regular work schedule includes Sunday work, shall be paid, in addition to any shift premium, a premium of two dollars ($2.00) per hour for each hour worked on Sunday.
These premiums are to be added to the hourly rates after, and not before, calculating overtime.
Performance Premium
An employee who qualifies to receive a performance premium, as determined according to Article VII (g), shall receive one dollar ($1 .00) per hour more than his/her classification rate during the period of payment.
Any performance premium is to be added to the hourly rates after, and not before, calculating overtime.
18
SCHEDULE“B” CHOICES for Employees
PURPOSE
1.	The purpose of this Plan is to offer employees a variety of Options for obtaining needed benefits coverage and to provide compensation which can be used to pay for the coverage.
ELIGIBILITY
2.	All regular employees who are not on leave of absence to accommodate employment with an affiliated company or working outside Canada, shall be eligible to participate in this Plan.
ELECTION OF COVERAGE
3	(a) Each participant may select coverage from the Options described in the
following benefit plans:
Benefit	Name of Included Benefit Plan
Accidental Death Benefits	•	Employee Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan •	Spousal Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan •	Dependent Child Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan
Dental coverage	• Dental Assistance Plan
Health Care	•	Major Medical Plan •	Health Manager Plan
Life Insurance	•	Life Insurance Benefit Plan •	Life Insurance for Employees Plan •	Spousal Life Insurance Plan •	Dependent Child Life Insurance Plan
Long-Term Disability	• Supplementary Long-Term Disability Income Plan
(b)	The election of coverage shall be made at the initial enrolment or at the annual enrolment.
(c)	At the annual enrolment, each participant should go to the on-line system to check their individual benefit options available, the applicable price tags, and the benefits available under Clause 5. This information shall be calculated as of the freeze date.
(d)	Any participant, who does not make an election within the time limits specified, will be deemed to have elected default coverage.
19
4.	In case of a life event, a participant may elect to vary the coverage at times other than at the annual enrolment, subject to the limitations specified in each plan.
BENEFITS
5.	In addition to all other forms of compensation, each employee shall receive annual flex dollars as specified below:
____________Applicable to:
All Employees___________
All Employees - AD&D
Employees who choose Life Insurance: Option 1
______________$ Amount______________
$1,500.00__________________________
An amount equal to the price tag for coverage under Option 3 of the Employee Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan.
An amount equal to 50% of the difference between the price tag for coverage under Options 1 and 2 of the Life Insurance Benefit Plan.
Option 2
Employees who choose Dental:
An amount equal to 100% of the difference between the price tag for coverage under Options 1 and 2 of the Life Insurance
Benefit Plan._________________________
Coverage Category
You	You + 1 You+2 or More
Option 1 Option 2 Option 3-4
$174.00
182.00
192.00
$174.00
325.00
384.00
$174.00
503.00
622.00
PAYMENT OF BENEFITS
6.	(a) The benefits payable under this Plan shall be applied against the participant’s benefit costs, added to income, or allocated to the Health Manager Plan, as directed by the participant.
(b)	Flex dollars directed to the participant’s benefit costs or income shall be applied on the benefit payment dates.
(c)	Flex dollars directed to the Health Manager Plan shall be applied at the beginning of the calendar year, except if a participant is a new employee, when they shall be applied at the beginning of the month following the month in which the option was elected. In the case of a life event, an additional amount can be added, and will be pro-rated.
COST
20
7.	The cost of providing these benefits shall be borne by the Company as provided in paragraph 5 above.
DESIGNATION OF DEPENDENTS
8.	(a) A participant shall have the right to name different individuals as dependents
under different plans and may also select different coverage categories under each plan.
(b) No benefits shall be payable in respect of a dependent who has not been named in accordance with paragraph (a).
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
9.	Payment of benefits under this Plan shall cease at the end of the calendar month in which a participant ceases to be an employee of the Company for any reason.
NON-ASSIGNMENT AND SEIZURE OF BENEFITS
10.	Any payments made or to be made under this Plan shall be exempt from seizure to the full extent permitted by law. No person shall have the right to assign any interest in any amount which is or may become payable at any time hereunder.
ADMINISTRATION
11.	The Company shall administer this Plan and may make such regulations as may be deemed necessary and its decision in all matters involving the interpretation and application of this Plan shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all parties.
DEFINITIONS
12.	For the purposes of this Plan:
(a)	The term annual enrolment shall mean the period determined annually by the Company for the purpose of electing options under this Plan.
(b)	The term benefit payment date(s) shall mean the date(s) on which benefit deductions are scheduled to be made by the system used to pay employees.
(c)	The term Company shall mean INVISTA (Canada) Company and its predecessor companies and such subsidiary companies as may be designated.
21
(d)	The term coverage category shall mean categories for the number of individuals covered by the participant under various plans, as established, from time to time, by the Administrator. Until further notice, the categories shall be:
Coverage Category	Definition
You	Coverage applies to the participant only
You +one	Coverage applies to the participant and to one named dependent
You + one or more	Coverage applied to the participant and to any number of named dependents
(e)	The term default coverage shall mean the coverage applied to a participant who has not made his or her own election. Until further notice, default coverage shall be:
(i)	For a participant who was employed at the current freeze date:
•	The Plan Option and coverage category previously in effect
•	Health manager Plan deposit up to the amount applicable in the previous year.
(ji) For a participant hired subsequent to the current freeze date:
Benefit Plan	Coverage Level
Employee Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan Dependent Accidental Death and Dismemberment Dental Assistance Plan Dependent Life Insurance Health Manager Plan Life Insurance Major Medical Plan Supplementary Long-Term Disability Income Plan Vacation	Option 1 No coverage No coverage No coverage No deposit Option 2 Option 1 No coverage No buying
(iii)	The coverage category applicable to default coverage at the initial enrolment will be “You”. At subsequent annual enrolments, the coverage category previously in effect shall continue.
(f)	The term dependent(s) shall mean the spouse or the dependent child(ren) of a participant.
(g)	The term dependent child(ren) shall mean:
(j) The natural or adopted child of a participant or his or her spouse who is unmarried, under age 25, and financially dependent on the participant, or
22
(ii)	The natural or adopted child of a participant or his or her spouse irrespective of age if unmarried and incapable of self support because of mental or physical handicap, provided that such condition existed on attainment of age 25 and was reported to the Insurer within 31 days.
(h)	The terms employee and regular employee shall mean a regular employee of the Company as defined in the Company’s Service Rules.
(i)	The term flex dollars shall mean funds provided to employees by the Company under the terms of this Plan.
(j)	The term freeze date shall mean the date set by the Company to establish the employee’s age, service, and earnings, for the purpose of determining the value of benefits under this Plan and the price tags of coverage under the plans listed in Clause 3(a).
(k)	The term initial enrolment shall mean:
(i)	1994 September 16 for all employees eligible to participate in this Plan on that date; or
(ii)	the date of hire for all employees hired subsequently.
(l)	The term life event shall mean an occurrence whereby:
(i)	an individual becomes qualified as the spouse of a participant; or
(ii)	a person for whom coverage has been purchased under the plans listed in Clause 3(1) ceases to be the spouse of a participant as a result of separation, divorce, or death; or
(iii)	a child is born to, adopted by, or comes into the custody of, a participant; or
(iv)	an individual covered as the child of a participant dies or ceases to qualify as a dependent child in accordance with the terms of paragraph (g) above, or
(v)	coverage under another plan previously provided through a participant’s spouse ceases as a result of the termination of the spouse’s employment or the cancellation by the employer of the applicable plan.
(m)	The term Option shall mean a level of coverage selected by a participant in accordance with this Plan.
23
(n)	The term participant shall mean an employee who is eligible to participate in this Plan.
(0) The term price tag shall mean the annual cost of an Option for coverage under the plans listed in Clause 3(a) established on the freeze date in accordance with the terms of the applicable benefit plan.
(p)	The term service shall mean service with the Company as defined in the Company’s Service Rules.
(q)	The term spouse shall mean a person who is:
(j) The legally married wife or husband of a participant; or
(jj) The “common-law” spouse of a participant provided that such person has cohabited with the participant:
•	continuously for a period of not less than one year, or
•	within the preceding year when a child was born of whom the “common-law” spouse and the participant are the natural parents.
However, in no case is a participant entitled to designate more than one individual as his or her spouse for any year.
24
SCHEDULE“C”
VACATIONS
(1)	The purpose of this Plan is to provide annual vacations with vacation allowance for eligible employees.
(2)	All regular employees of the Company shall be eligible to participate in this Plan.
(3) Annual vacations shall be granted as follows:
Service	Vacation Entitlement
Service beginning on or before the first day of Julv ofthe current calendar vear	1 week
Service beginning on or before the first working day of the current calendar year but less than 3 years to be completed during the current year	2 weeks
3 years but less than 10 years to be completed during the current year	3 weeks
10 years but less than 20 years to be completed during the current vear	4 weeks
20 years but less than 30 years to be completed during the current vear	5 weeks
30 years or more to be completed during the current year	6 weeks
(4) Commencing with 5 or more years of service a portion of a current year’s vacation may be carried forward to a subsequent year in accordance with the following:
Years of Service Completed in Current Year	Maximum Carry-Over Per Year	Maximum Cumulative Carry-Over
5 but less than 10	1 week	1 week
10 but less than 15	1 week	2 weeks
15 but less than 20	1 week	3 weeks
20 but less than 25	2 weeks	4 weeks
25 but less than 30	2 weeks	5 weeks
30 or more	3 weeks	6 weeks
(i) Each payroll employee granted a vacation shall be paid a vacation allowance in an amount equal to the employee’s current hourly rate multiplied by 40 hours for each week of vacation; provided, however, that in cases in which the individual employee’s regular work week is less than 40 hours, the number of hours in the employee’s regular work week shall govern.
25
(ii)	Each salaried employee granted a vacation shall be paid a vacation allowance for each week of vacation equal to current regular salary calculated on a weekly basis.
(6)	0) Vacations shall be scheduled by the Company and, as far as is practicable,
shall be arranged in advance for such time during the year as may be found suitable, after consideration has been given both to the wishes of the employees and to the efficient operation of the units concerned.
(ii) An employee working in a unit whose operations are suspended at the end of a calendar year may, at his or her option, elect to receive part or all of the vacation that she or he would be entitled to in the subsequent calendar year during the shutdown period.
(7)	(i) An employee may purchase one week of vacation in addition to the vacation
to which she or he is entitled to under Clause 3. No lesser amount of vacation may be purchased.
(ii)	Vacation purchased under this clause shall be taken in accordance with the provisions of Clause 7 and must be taken after all vacation to which the employee is entitled under Clause 3 and Clause 4 has been taken.
(iii)	The purchase of vacation must be made at the initial enrollment or at each annual enrollment.
(iv)	If an employee elects to purchase vacation under this clause, the cost of the vacation shall be calculated in accordance with Clause 5 at the rate of pay applicable to the employee as of the freeze date. A portion of this cost will be deducted from the employee’s pay at each benefit payment date.
(v)	If an employee indicates that vacation elected under this Clause will not be taken in the calendar year, the amount deducted under paragraph (iv) shall be added back to his or her pay prior to the end of the calendar year.
(8)	(i) An employee who is eligible for at least 4 weeks of vacation under Clause 3,
and who has not elected to purchase vacation under Clause 7, may sell one week of vacation. No lesser amount may be sold.
(ii)	The sale of vacation under this Clause must be made at the annual enrollment.
(iii)	If an employee elects to sell vacation under this Clause, the value of the vacation shall be calculated in accordance with Clause 5, at the rate of pay applicable to the employee as of the freeze date. The value of vacation sold shall be added to the employee’s pay at the beginning of each calendar year.
(9)
(10)
(1 1) (12)
(13)
(14)
(15)
26
(iv)A decision to sell vacation may not be rescinded.
The length of an employee's vacation may be reduced because of absence from work during the twelve months immediately preceding 1st January of the year in which the vacation is scheduled to commence.
The amount of the vacation allowance shall be reduced by the applicable amount of any statutory or other vacation allowance paid to the employee upon termination of service during the current or the preceding year and the length of the vacation shall be correspondingly reduced.
The Company confirms it has revised its payroll practices so that an employee who, terminates from the Company, shall be paid for all vacation accrued to date of termination, at the employee's applicable vacation entitlement.
An employee who is entitled to a vacation at the time of retirement shall be granted an allowance in an amount equal to:
(i)	any vacation allowance due and not paid for vacation earned in the previous year, and
(ii)	any carry-over to which the employee is entitled, and
(iii)	vacation earned in the year of termination prorated on the basis of time worked and the vacation entitlement in that year.
Any payments made or to be made under this Plan shall be exempt from seizure to the full extent permitted by law. No person shall have the right to assign any interest in any amount which is or may become payable at any time hereunder.
The Company shall administer this Plan and may make such regulations as may be deemed necessary and his or her decision in all matters involving the interpretation and application of this Plan shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all parties.
For the purposes of this Plan:
(i) The term annual enrollment shall mean the period established for the election of coverage under the Company's CHOICES Plan.
The term benefit payment date(s) shall mean the date(s) on which benefit deductions are scheduled to be made by the system used to pay employees.
The term Company shall mean INVISTA (Canada) Company and its predecessor companies and such subsidiary companies as may be designed by the Company.
27
(iv)
The terms employee and regular employee shall mean a regular employee of the Company. .
The term freeze date shall mean the date on which the price tags of benefit options are calculated, as defined in the Company’s CHOICES Plan.
(vi)	The term hourly rate shall, for a payroll employee, mean the hourly rate for the employee’s classification according to the schedule of rates in effect at the time vacation commences except that effect shall be given to any adjustment in rates occurring during the vacation period. Overtime work and wages paid therefore, and all premiums, are excluded from these calculations.
(vii)	The term initial enrollment shall mean:
(i) At 1994 September 16 for all employees eligible to participate in this Plan on that date; or
00
the date of hire for all employees hired subsequently.
(viii)	The term payroll employee shall mean an employee whose remuneration is based on hours worked.
(ix)
The term salaried employee shall mean an employee whose remuneration is based on a monthly rate.
INVISTA (Canada) Company
Site h - -ign Site
Negotiations Team:
28
Kingston Independent Nylon Workers Union
UnionPresident - KINWU
Bargaining Committee: