MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Entered into in quintuplicate as of the 28th day of January, 2013.
BY AND BETWEEN:
INVISTA (Canada) Company, hereinafter called the "Company"
and
Kingston Independent Nylon Workers Union, hereinafter called the "Union".
WITNESSETH THAT:
The parties hereto have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I - SCOPE
(a)	In this agreement:
(i)	"said Site” means the Company's nylon manufacturing plant located in the City of Kingston, County of Frontenac in Ontario, known as its Kingston Site.
(ii)	"employee" means anyone employed by the Company at the said Site who is paid at an hourly rate, save and except office staff, guards, forepersons and persons above the rank of foreperson.
(b)	This agreement covers all employees as herein defined.
(c)	For purposes of clarification the parties recognize that this agreement applies to Kingston Site employees assigned to the Company's Customer Technical Centre and Research Centre located in the City of Kingston.
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION
(a)	The Company recognizes the Union during the term of this agreement as the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect of wages, benefits, hours of work, seniority, grievance procedure and such other working conditions as are included in this agreement.
(b)	The Union recognizes the right of the Company:
00851 (13)
2
(i)	to manage the said Site and to direct the working forces including the right to hire, promote, transfer or classify any employee and to demote, discipline, suspend or terminate the employment of any employee for any justifiable reason. Justifiable reason for the termination of employment of any employee who has not achieved seniority status shall be determined by the Company. Such determination shall not be made in bad faith or in an arbitrary maimer;
(ii)	to change hours of work, determine or change work assignments or methods, classify new occupations and select the materials to be handled, processed or manufactured;
(iii)	to make and alter from time to time rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this agreement to be observed by the employees.
ARTICLE III - CO OPERATION
(a)	Recognizing that the general standard of living can be raised only through increased productivity and that in most respects the best interests of the Company and its employees are synonymous, the Union pledges itself to co-operate fully with the Company to improve production methods, increase efficiency, promote safety and to develop good work habits among employees.
(b)	The Company shall maintain in place benefit plans providing: life insurance, A.D.& D., dental insurance and health care insurance. The Company’s obligation is to pay its portion of the premiums and nothing shall be read as implying or creating any greater obligation.
(c)	The Company will maintain in place a Short Term Disability (S.T.D.) plan, essentially similar to that in place upon the expiry of the previous Collective Agreement that provides the following benefits:
For up to 26 weeks,
•	after 24 hour waiting period, the balance of the first six (6) weeks - 85%
of pay
•	the next twenty (20) weeks - 70% pay
The benefit is payable subject to the terms of the plan. The Company may insure the plan in which case its obligation is to pay the premium.
(d)	The Company will pay the premium for a Long Term Disability (L.T.D) plan, essentially similar to that in place upon the expiry of the previous Collective Agreement.
(e)	The Company will continue its current Pension Plan applicable to employees in the bargaining unit during the term of this Collective Agreement subject to any changes required by law.
3
(f)	Employees shall be granted vacation in accordance with Schedule “B” attached hereto.
(g)	While the Company fully expects to continue these benefit policies indefinitely, it reserves the right to discontinue or amend a plan or policy at any time, provided, however, that no such discontinuance, and no amendment will have the effect of terminating or reducing in the aggregate the benefits provided. No such limitation shall apply, however, if the discontinuance or amendment results directly or indirectly from any government action which either:
(i)	requires the Company to effect such discontinuance or amendment, or
(ii)	provides a benefit or benefits which when considered together with the results of the Company’s actual or proposed discontinuance or amendment does not in the aggregate occasion any loss or reduction of benefits to the participants.
(h)	The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize, or sanction, nor permit its members to cause or take part in (and it is agreed that the Company may discharge any employee who causes or takes part in) any sit-down, stay-in or slow-down in any department or any strike or stoppage of any of the Company's operations or any curtailment of work or restriction of or interference with production or any picketing of the Company's premises during the term of this agreement.
(i)	The Company agrees that it will not cause or sanction a lockout during the term of this agreement.
(j)	The Company agrees that the Union may post notices in the said Site on notice boards supplied by the Company for such purposes provided that such notices have been individually approved in writing by the Company.
The Union agrees that it will not distribute or post any pamphlets, advertising or political matter, cards, notices or any kind of literature, within the said Site or its appurtenances except as provided in this agreement. Such notices may be submitted electronically by the Union for approval by the Company.
(k)	Members of the Union not exceeding ten (10) in number on any one day may be granted occasional leave of absence without pay for the purpose of attending normal functions of the said Union such as steward, executive, or general meetings and training courses.
(l)	During the term of this agreement the Company will deduct the amount of the regular Union membership dues from the wages of each employee.
The Company shall remit to a recognized Canadian financial institution duly designated from time to time by the Union, for deposit to the Union's account, the total of all amounts so deducted not later than ten (10) business days after the deduction has been made. The Company will at the same time forward a list of all employees from whose wages such deductions have been made and a list of the changes to the deduction list since the last payment to the Union.
4
(m)	There shall be no discrimination, intimidation, interference, restraint, coercion, or attempted coercion by or on behalf of the Company or by or on behalf of the Union, its members or its agents with respect to any employee because of membership or non-membership in the Union.
(n)	No one shall conduct Union activities at the said Site during working hours except as specifically permitted in this agreement.
(o)	The Company agrees to continue the system whereby vacancies in certain classifications in Schedule "A" are posted for not less than fourteen (14) days on the bulletin board in the said Site. The Company further agrees to inform the Union concerning the content of each notice prior to posting, and to inform a committee of the Union forty-eight (48) hours in advance of the announcement of selection to fill such vacancies.
(p)	During a new or rehired employee's induction the Company agrees to permit the Union reasonable time for discussion with the employee.
(q)	An employee, hired and designated as a Fibre Trainee, who is retained after completion of twelve (12) cumulative months of active employment shall no longer be designated as temporary, provided the period of lapse of employment does not exceed twelve (12) months on any occasion.
ARTICLE IV - REPRESENTATION
(a)	The Company agrees to recognize fifty-two (52) stewards, one of whom shall be the Chief Steward, to represent fifty-one (51) groups of employees. The Union shall notify the Company in writing, or electronically, of the names of the stewards and of the Chief Steward. A steward will be allowed to leave his/her duties for a reasonable length of time to investigate and settle grievances in his/her group without loss of time or pay provided that he/she obtains prior authorization from his/her foreperson. A member of the Union Bargaining Committee will be allowed to leave his/her duties for a reasonable length of time to prepare for Step 3 of the grievance procedure without loss of time or pay provided that he/she obtains prior authorization from his/her foreperson.
(b)	The Company agrees to recognize a Union Bargaining Committee composed of not more than seven (7) employees.
The Union Bargaining Committee shall have the right of meeting the appointed representative or representatives of the Company at a predetermined date and time, normally once every month. Members who happen to be on duty shall be paid straight time for that part of their regularly scheduled working hours devoted to attendance at such meetings held on Company property.
ARTICLE V - HOURS OF WORK
(a)	The normal number of daily hours of work shall be either eight (8), and shall vary from eight (8) hours for six (6) days in a week to eight (8) hours for two (2) days in a week, or twelve (12), and shall vary from twelve (12) hours for four (4) days
in a week to twelve (12) hours for one (1) day in a week, or a combination of two (2) twelve (12) and two (2) eight (8) hour days in a week, in accordance with schedules established from time to time. It is understood that the day of rest shall be Sunday for day workers.
(b)	The normal number of daily hours of work is stated solely for the purpose of calculating overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of any minimum nor as a restriction on any maximum number of hours to be worked.
(c)	It is understood that employees shall be at their work place and ready to assume their duties at the commencement of their working day.
(d)	The Company undertakes to communicate to the steward of the group any change proposed by the Company in work assignments or in the hours of work which affects the majority of employees in such group, before the change becomes effective.
(e)	The Company shall schedule one (1) rest period of ten (10) minutes' duration in each half of the working day.
(f)	Day workers shall be granted a five (5) minute wash-up period before their luncheon period. A period of five (5) minutes before the end of their working day shall be granted as needed for the purpose of putting away tools, cleaning work benches, making out time report sheets and washing up. Employees engaged in unusually dirty work may be allowed extra washing time, at the discretion of their foreperson.
(g)	An employee may work extra hours beyond the regular scheduled work day and beyond forty-eight (48) hours in a week. This provision is agreed to in order to comply with the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE VI - OVERTIME AND OTHER ALLOWANCES
(a)	Employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work required to be performed in excess of the normal number of daily hours of work in any one day or in any continuous period, provided however, that they shall be paid at the rate of double time, instead of at the rate of time and one-half, for all hours worked in excess of four (4) hours beyond the normal number of daily hours of work in any one day or in any continuous period.
(b)	Employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work required to be performed on their regularly assigned day of rest. They shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work required to be performed on their extra day of rest, provided however, that they shall be paid at the rate of double time instead of at the rate of time and one-half, for all hours worked in excess of four (4) hours beyond the normal number of daily hours of work on that day or in any continuous period.
(c)	An employee shall, subject to the second paragraph of this clause, be paid an amount equivalent to eight (8) hours pay at his/her straight time hourly rate for the following holidays whether or not he/she works on such holidays: New Year’s Day, Family Day, Monday of the School Winter Holidays, Good Friday, Victoria
Day, July 1st (Canada Day), Third Friday in July, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and 26th December.
However, employees shall not be entitled to be so paid:
(i)	if they do not work on such holidays when they are required or scheduled to do so. Notwithstanding the foregoing, they shall be entitled to be so paid when leave of absence has been granted for paid disability, jury duty or bereavement.
(ii)	if they were absent without good cause on the scheduled working day immediately preceding or succeeding such holiday.
(iii)	if they are absent for any reason on both the scheduled working days immediately preceding and succeeding such holidays. Notwithstanding the foregoing, they shall be entitled to be so paid if such absence is due to their scheduled vacation or when leave of absence has been granted for paid disability, jury duty or bereavement.
(iv)	if such holiday occurs while they are on leave of absence, subject to the same exceptions as set out in subsection (iii) above.
An employee who works on the following holidays: New Year’s Day, Family Day, Monday of the School Winter Holidays, Victoria Day, July 1st (Canada Day), Third Friday in July, Civic Holiday and 26th December shall be paid in addition thereto at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked on that day or in any continuous period.
An employee who works on any of the following holidays: Good Friday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be paid in addition thereto at the rate of double time for all hours worked on that day or in any continuous period.
If another day is substituted by statute or municipal proclamation or by mutual agreement between the parties for the observance of any of the holidays listed in clause (c) the day of observance so substituted shall be deemed to be the holiday for the purpose of this Article VI.
It is understood for day workers the Monday of the School Winter Holidays or third Friday in July may be taken as a floating holiday.
If employees are required by the Company to report to the said Site to perform work at other than their regularly scheduled working hours, they shall be paid a minimum amount equivalent to pay for three (3) hours at their applicable overtime rate if their pay for the performance of such work is less than this amount, except when such work forms a continuous period with their regularly scheduled working hours, in which case no minimum shall apply. If they are entitled to the payment provided in clause (c), this minimum amount shall be paid in addition thereto for the performance of such work on a holiday.
If employees are required by the Company to report to the said Site to perform work at other than their regularly scheduled working hours, they shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked at other than their regularly scheduled working hours, provided however, that they shall be paid at the rate of
7
double time instead of at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of four (4) hours beyond the normal number of daily hours of work on that day or in any continuous period. In any event, they shall be paid at the straight time rate only, for regularly scheduled hours worked. When an employee is sent home by the Company during his/her regularly scheduled working hours to return later that day, premium rates under this provision shall be calculated as if he/she had completed his/her normal number of daily hours.
(g)	If employees are required by the Company to report to the said Site on less than four (4) hours' notice to perform work at other than their regularly scheduled working hours, the Company will provide transportation to the said Site for those employees or will pay them one (1) hour's pay at their straight time rate. If they are entitled to payment under the provisions of clause (a), (b), (d), or (f), this travelling allowance shall be paid in addition thereto.
(h)	If an employee reports for work when scheduled to do so without having been previously notified not to report he/she shall be provided three (3) hours' work at his/her straight time rate or, in lieu thereof, shall receive three (3) hours' pay at this straight time rate, provided however, that the employee shall not be entitled to such work or such pay:
(i)	if the failure to provide work is due to circumstances beyond the control of the Company.
(ii)	if the employee has not provided the Company with his/her correct telephone number or cannot be reached at that number.
(i)	Whenever an employee's schedule is changed by the Company so as to result in regularly scheduled working hours with new starting and finishing times, the employee shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for work performed during his/her first working day following such change unless thirty (30) or more hours' notice prior to the commencement of the calendar week of the employee's new schedule in which the change occurs has been given to him/her by the Company, provided however, that he/she shall be paid at the rate of double time instead of at the rate of time and one-half, for all hours worked in excess of four (4) hours beyond the normal number of daily hours of work in any one day or in any continuous period.
(j)	Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article VI an employee shall not be paid at the rate of time and one-half, or double time as the case may be, for overtime work if such overtime work, with the permission of the foreperson, is performed by the employee at his/her own request or by special arrangement with another or other employees who may wish to change or exchange working hours.
(k)	For the purpose of establishing which shift crew employees, regularly scheduled to work on Sunday, shall receive Sunday premium and the premium pay for work performed on the holidays shown in clause (c) of this Article VI, the day shall extend from midnight to midnight for employees assigned to schedules with normal eight-hour days and from 1930 hours on one day to 1930 hours on the next day for employees assigned to schedules with normal twelve-hour days. But for all other purposes any day shall be deemed to be a twenty-four hour period as shown in schedules established from time to time.
8
(l)	When hours of work which are paid at a premium rate under the provisions of this Article continue without interruption into a second day, such hours in the second day up to the starting time of an employee's regularly scheduled working hours will be treated for the purposes of applying provisions of this Article as if they had occurred in the previous day.
(m)	An employee shall not be entitled to be paid under more than one clause of this Article, unless otherwise specifically provided, and in any event the rate of payment including holiday and other allowances but excluding the minimum payment and travelling allowances provided in clauses (f) and (g) shall not exceed three (3) times the straight time hourly rate.
(n)	An overtime meal allowance up to the value of $ 10.00 shall be provided in accordance with an Overtime and Other Allowances Procedure.
(o)	The Company may average the regular hours of scheduled work over a two (2) week period for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the overtime provisions of the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE VII - WAGES - CLASSIFICATION
(a)	The classification of all occupations and the wage rates appear in Schedule "A" attached hereto, which is made part of this agreement and is signed for identification by the parties hereto. It is agreed that when a new classification is created or an existing classification is substantially changed by the Company, the Company will discuss the change with the Union.
(b)	While an employee may at any time discuss his/her classification with his/her foreperson, no request for a change in the classification of such employee need be entertained by the Company unless presented to the Company within thirty (30) days following the date of the classification or of the change in classification to which such employee objects.
(c)	A successful applicant for promotion, whose appointment is delayed because of the needs of the Company, and whose place is taken by another employee, will be credited with time and experience, and receive any applicable higher wage rate, as if their place had not been taken.
(d)	Employees who successfully apply to enter a training program leading to qualification as a first class maintenance technician, or stationary engineer 2nd class will enter the program at the trainee level, but will receive an hourly rate equivalent to the higher of their former classification rate or the trainee rate.
(e)	An employee who is successful in posting to a new classification and who is not immediately classified at the top classification in that line of progression, may not engage in further posting activity until such time as he/she worked at the top classification for a period equivalent to the progression period. In the event the posting occurs to a new classification not in a line of progression, the employee may not engage in further posting activity for two (2) years.
(f)	An employee having acquired job experience in a posted classification and, on being regressed from that posted job because of lack of work, will return to their
previously held classification, provided their seniority holds them there. That employee shall hold reserve status in that particular posted job for a period not exceeding three years from date of transfer from the particular posted job classification. If a summer student is placed in the posted classification, such reserve status will begin from the time the student leaves.
(g)	In keeping with the Company’s performance based culture, the Company may
introduce a discretionary bonus system and/or other incentive systems based upon such criteria as it determines in its absolute discretion reflect an overall contribution of the Company’s success. Bonus and/or other incentive payments, if made, will be made at the time, manner and frequency of the Company’s selection and are in addition to the wage rates and premiums set out herein. The Company may, from time to time, publish details of such discretionary bonus or incentive system.
ARTICLE VIII - SENIORITY
(a)	An employee shall acquire seniority status after he/she has been in the employ of the Company for a probationary period of one hundred and eighty (180) consecutive days. For an employee designated as temporary, the probationary period shall commence upon attainment of status as a regular employee. For all probationary employees, it is understood that in cases of absence beyond ten (10) consecutive days, the Company may extend the probationary period by the total number of consecutive days absent.
(b)	Seniority shall govern on all occasions when:
(i)	a layoff which the Company expects to remain in effect for more than one (1) week occurs provided employees are sufficiently qualified. Sufficiently qualified shall be deemed to mean that the employee is qualified to perform the normal duties of the job. In the event of a workforce reduction, employees designated as temporary will be terminated before any regular employee.
i
(ii)	a transfer or a promotion to a classification included in Schedule "A" which the Company expects to remain in effect for more than thirty (30) days occurs, provided however, that the senior employee has qualifications equal to or better than those of other employees. If any such temporary layoff, transfer or promotion should subsequently become permanent, or
exceed the stipulated time limits, the provisions of this clause (b) shall apply immediately but such application shall be without retroactive effect.
(c)	For the purpose of this Agreement, seniority shall be calculated from the date an employee first enters the bargaining unit under this Collective Agreement with the Company or its predecessor. Employees who leave the bargaining unit and transfer to a non-bargaining unit role, shall maintain and continue to accumulate seniority for thirty-six (36) months of subsequent employment with the Company or its predecessor except that following thirty-six (36) cumulative months of subsequent employment, only seniority accumulated as a member of the
10
bargaining unit will be maintained. It is understood by the parties that this paragraph applies only to employees who leave the bargaining unit and transfer to a non-bargaining unit role, subsequent to January 28, 2007. It is understood that employees who left the bargaining unit, for any reason, prior to January 28, 2007 shall maintain and continue to accumulate seniority for the total period of their subsequent employment with the Company or its predecessor. An employee’s seniority shall be lost if the employee is laid off for more than eighteen (18) months. This paragraph shall not apply to anyone hired and designated as temporary.
An employee, other than anyone hired and designated as temporary, who is laid off for two (2) weeks or less as the result of a layoff which the Company expects to remain in effect for two (2) weeks or less, will be credited with seniority for such period upon return to work from such layoff.
(d)	When an employee who has been in a classification for twenty-six (26) or more consecutive weeks is regressed to a lower classification due to lack of work, he/she will be given either four (4) weeks' notice of such regression or paid at the rate of the higher classification in lieu of such notice. Notice of regression or payment in lieu shall be at the discretion of the Company.
(e)	Seniority shall terminate and an employee shall cease to be employed by the Company if:
. i) the employee is absent from active employment for a period of twenty-four (24) months calculated from the period the absence commenced.
ii) the employee is absent for three (3) consecutive working days without notifying the Company of the absence and providing reasons satisfactory to the Company for such absence.
(f)	An employee laid off for a period greater than two (2) weeks will receive two (2) weeks’ notice of layoff. This provision does not apply to an employee designated as temporary.
(g)	When employment offers are made, employees who were laid off during the preceding eighteen (18) months and who are qualified for the job or jobs available shall be offered employment on the basis of seniority accumulated prior to layoff. Any person being recalled under this clause shall not be designated as temporary. The Company shall be under no obligation to recall such a former employee unless he/she has filed his/her current address and telephone number with the Company for this purpose, can be reached when the opportunity for recall arises and is available for work when his/her services are required.
In the event that a laid off employee fails to accept recall, other than of a temporary nature, the Company may consider that he/she no longer wishes to be recalled.
(h)	The Company agrees to post seniority lists showing the seniority status of each employee and to furnish a copy of such lists to the Union.
(i)	The Company agrees to alter the seniority lists from time to time and to correct any errors therein whenever proof of error is submitted by the Union or any
11
employee. No change shall be made in the seniority status of an employee without consultation with the Union.
ARTICLE IX - SEVERANCE PAY
(a)	An employee who has one (1) year or more of seniority shall be paid severance
pay if his/her employment is terminated due to lack of work, except that such pay
will not be paid when employment is terminated:
(i) due to circumstances beyond the direct control of the Company including, without limitation, fire, flood, power failure or hostile acts of foreign governments, or to strike or other labour dispute whether or not the Company is directly involved, transportation difficulties, material shortages and the like, or regulations or controls established by any governmental authority; or
(b)	It is understood that severance pay will not be paid to an employee when:
(i)	the termination is for any reason other than lack of work;
(ii)	the employee accepts employment at any Company location, or with an affiliated company, before termination becomes effective;
(iii)	the employee is offered employment with a successor company at the same location before termination becomes effective;
(iv)	the employee becomes a pensioner;
(v)	the employee resigns, even in anticipation of termination;
(vi)	the employee elects layoff in lieu of demotion, promotion, transfer or any change in status. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an employee in the classifications of Stationary Engineer 2nd Class or 1st Class Maintenance Technician who is demoted due to lack of work, will be given the option of being terminated by the Company due to lack of work.
(c)	The amount of an employee's severance pay, subject to the foregoing provisions
of this Article, shall be:
(i)	one (1) week's pay for each of the first four (4) years of seniority, plus
(ii)	one (1) week's pay for each year of seniority over four (4) and an additional week's pay for each year of seniority over fifteen (15).
(iii)	The amount of severance pay payable in case of termination shall be limited to fifty-two (52) weeks' pay. Partial years, after the first full year, shall be computed to the nearest full month, including the month in which the employee is laid off if the employee has accumulated fifteen (15) or more days of seniority in that month, and the rate of one-twelfth (1/12) of one (1) or two (2) weeks' pay as the case may be, shall be applicable for each such month.
12
For severance pay purposes a week's pay shall be equal to the employee's current straight time hourly rate multiplied by the number of hours, not to exceed forty (40), constituting the employee’s normal number of weeldy hours of work at the said Site at any time of termination, and shall not include overtime or any other premium pay or allowance.
(d)	Employees who elect to receive severance pay shall forfeit all seniority and recall rights. For the purposes of clarity, employees who elect to receive severance pay pursuant to this Article shall be entitled to severance pay after a layoff of 26 weeks.
(e)	The Company may elect to pay severance pay in weekly installments or in a lump sum.
ARTICLE X - SAFETY AND HEALTH
(a)	The Company will continue to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment. Such protective devices as the Company requires to be worn and other equipment which in the opinion of the Company is necessary to protect the employee from injury shall be provided by the Company.
(b)	Whenever the Company recommends to the employees for their better protection the use of additional personal safety equipment which it does not supply free of charge, it will make such equipment available to employees at cost, except that should safety shoes not be stocked by the Company, it will subsidize the purchase of these shoes for the personal use of the purchaser.
The subsidy will be the lesser of the cost per pair or $125.00 for the first pair purchased in each calendar year, and the lesser of the cost per pair or $75.00 for up to one (1) subsequent pair purchased in each calendar year.
ARTICLE XI - DISCHARGES
The Company agrees to notify the Union of the reason for the discharge of any employee. Such notice shall be given in writing to the President of the Union within seventy-two (72) hours of the discharge. Regardless of the foregoing, at the point of discharge, a regular employee may request the presence of a Union Officer or Steward. Any discharge may be discussed as a grievance, provided that the grievance is submitted in writing within seven (7) days after receipt of notification of discharge by the Union. In the event that an employee is discharged and after subsequent investigation is exonerated and reinstated he/she shall be reimbursed for the time lost by reason of such discharge on the basis of his/her normal number of daily hours of work less earnings received from other employers in respect to the period for which he/she is to be reimbursed.
In the event that an employee is discharged and is not exonerated by subsequent investigation, a lesser penalty may be substituted where, in the opinion of an arbitrator, the penalty of discharge is considered to be inappropriate.
13
ARTICLE XII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
(a)	Any dispute, grievance or misunderstanding (hereinafter called "grievance") involving occupational classification, wages, the benefits plans, seniority, hours of work or other working conditions which any employee or group of employees may desire to discuss and adjust with the Company, shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
(b)	While an employee may discuss a grievance with his/her foreperson at any time, a request for retroactive adjustment need not be entertained by the Company unless the grievance is presented in writing within thirty (30) days of the date of the incident which gave rise to the grievance. Any grievance shall be deemed to have been withdrawn if, after a written decision has been given at either step 1 or step 2, more than thirty (30) days have elapsed before the grievance is earned to the next step.
(c)	Prior to issuing a written grievance, the employee shall first take up his/her grievance directly with the foreperson of his/her department. For non-disciplinary matters, a meeting with select individuals may be convened in any effort to resolve the matter. If the matter is not resolved by the foreperson, it shall be handled as follows:
Step 1
The employee may report the matter to the steward designated to represent his/her group, who, together with the employee may take up the matter with the foreperson and shall at the same time present to the foreperson a written summary of the grievance. If the written decision of the foreperson does not settle the matter to the satisfaction of the employee or ten (10) days have elapsed since the grievance was submitted under the provisions of this step, the employee and the steward may:
Step 2
Submit the grievance to the appropriate Manager or his/her appointee. If the written decision of the Manager or appointee does not settle the matter to the satisfaction of the employee or fourteen (14) days have elapsed since the grievance was submitted under the provisions of this step, the steward may:
Step 3
Submit the grievance in writing to the Union Bargaining Committee which may bring the matter to the attention of the Site Manager by presenting to him/her or 1 his/her appointee the written statement of the grievance. The Union Bargaining Committee may then discuss the grievance with the Site Manager or appointee at a time to be agreed upon. A grievor may attend the discussion of his/her grievance at the mutual consent of the Company and the Union. If the written decision of the Site Manager or appointee does not settle the matter to the satisfaction of the Union Bargaining Committee or six (6) weeks have elapsed since the grievance was submitted under this step, the provisions of Article XIII may be invoked.
(d)	All decisions arrived at by agreement between the Site Manager or appointee and the Union Bargaining Committee with respect to any grievance shall be made in writing and shall be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
14
(e)	Nothing in this agreement shall be deemed to take away the right of an individual employee to present any personal grievance to the Company.
ARTICLE XIII - ARBITRATION
(a)	Within a period of fourteen (14) weeks after a matter has been brought to the attention of the Site Manager, any grievance or other matter in dispute between the Company and the Union, involving the interpretation or alleged violation of any Article of this agreement may, in the event of failure to reach agreement thereon, be referred by either party to arbitration by an arbitrator selected as follows:
(i)	the party desiring arbitration shall notify the other party in writing of the matter to be arbitrated and propose three (3) arbitrators;
(ii)	the party receiving the notice shall, within ten (10) days, notify the other party of either its agreement to one of the proposed arbitrators or its proposal of a further three (3) arbitrators.
(iii)	should the party originally desiring arbitration fail to accept one of the arbitrators proposed in (ii) above, within ten (10) days, either party may apply to the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to appoint the arbitrator.
(b)	The arbitrator shall convene a hearing into the matter in dispute and issue an award, in writing, to both the Company and the Union, within sixty (60) days of completion of the hearing.
(c)	The decision of the arbitrator on the matter at issue shall be final and binding on both parties but in no event shall the arbitrator have the power to add to, subtract from, alter or amend this agreement in any respect.
(d)	Each party shall pay its own costs and the fees and expenses of the witnesses called by it. Fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally between the parties.
(e)	Time limits specified in this article shall be deemed to be exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and those holidays described in Article VI (c) of this agreement and may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
ARTICLE XIV - TERMINATION
(a)	This agreement shall become effective as of the 28th day of January, 2013, and shall remain in full force and effect until the 27th day of January, 2017.
(b)	Either party may on ten (10) clear days' notice in writing, require the other party to enter into negotiations for the renewal of the agreement within the period of two (2) months prior to the expiry date and both parties shall thereupon enter into such negotiations in good faith and make every reasonable effort to secure such renewal.
(c)	The party giving notice in accordance with clause (b) hereof shall at the same time as such notice is issued, and the party receiving the notice shall within ten
(10) days of its receipt of such notice, respectively present to the other party in writing any proposed modifications or revisions of this agreement.
15
ARTICLE XV - NOTICE
Notices provided in Articles XI, XIII and XIV shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by electronic or hard copy mail addressed, if to the Union, to the President of the Union and, if to the Company, to the Site Manager at the said Site.
ARTICLE XVI - SUCCESSOR IN BUSINESS
This agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successor in business of the Company at the said Site.
INVISTA (Canada) Company
Site Manager - Kingston Site
16
WAGE INCREASES SCHEDULE“A”
JOB CODE	PRODUCTION AND SERVICE CLASSIFICATIONS	1/28/2013	1/28/2014	1/28/2015	1/28/2016
06/06E/06T	Polymer Specialist	30.75	31.05	31.35	31.65
10/10E/10T	Polymer Technician 3	29.75	29.95	30.20	30.50
11	PolymerTechnician 2	26.70	26.85	27.00	27.20
12	PolymerTechnician 1	26.00	26.10	26.20	26.40
17/17E/17T	Batch Operator	24.80	25.00	25.20	25.40
36/36E	Solution Preparation Operator	24.99	24.99	24.99	24.99
38/38E/38T	Fire Inspector	24.44	24.44	24.44	24.44
15/15E/15T	Spinning Technician	25.30	25.55	25.80	26.05
19/19E	Textile Machine Operator "A"	22.56	22.56	22.56	22.56
24	Manufacturing Tech IV	22.56	22.56	22.56	22.56
64/64E/64T	Fibre Specialist	26.00	26.35	26.55	26.75
63/63E/63T	Fibre Technician 3	23.40	23.60	23.80	24.00
68	Fibre Technician 2	22.05	22.20	22.35	22.50
84	Fibre Technician 1	19.70	19.90	20.10	20.30
60	Fibre Trainee (Temporary)	17.60	17.75	17.90	18.05
41/41E	Materials Flandler	24.44	24.44	24.44	24.44
42/42E/42T	Material Specialist	22.10	22.30	22.50	22.70
43/43E	Material Operator	19.70	19.90	20.10	20.30
45/45E	Service Operator	17.60	17.75	17.90	18.05
46	Manufacturing Service Temporary	16.00	16.00	16.00	16.00
94	Student	13.00	13.00	13.00	13.00
	LABORATORY CLASSIFICATIONS				
31/31E/31T	Laboratory Technician 1st Class	26.99	26.99	26.99	26.99
32	Laboratory Technician 2nd Class	24.99	24.99	24.99	24.99
37/37E/37T	Laboratory Research Specialist	29.30	29.40	29.50	29.60
33/33E/33T	Laboratory Specialist	27.00	27.25	27.50	27.70
34/34E/34T	Laboratory Technician	24.80	25.00	25.20	25.40
35/35E/35T	Laboratory Operator	22.05	22.20	22.35	22.50
	ENGINEERING CLASSIFICATIONS				
50/50E/50T	Stationary Engineer 2nd Class	36.50	40.00	40.35	40.70
61	Stationary Engineer 3rd Class	33.00	36.00	36.25	36.50
74	Stationary Engineer 4th Class	28.00	28.25	28.50	28.75
51/51E/51T	Maintenance Technician 1st Class	32.80	33.15	33.50	33.85
62	Maintenance Technician 2nd Class	29.40	29.65	29.90	30.15
75	Maintenance Technician 3rd Class	27.00	27.25	27.50	27.75
81	Maintenance Trainee	26.40	26.60	26.80	27.00
65	Apprentice Maintenance Technician 2nd Class	26.46	26.69	26.91	27.14
66	Apprentice Maintenance Technician 3rd Class	23.00	23.16	23.38	23.59
67	Apprentice Maintenance Trainee	19.89	19.95	20.10	20.25
72/72E	Maintenance Operator	22.05	22.20	22.35	22.50
17
Employees hired into Maintenance with apprentice qualifications, but without journeyman certification, will receive: seventy-five percent (75%) of Trainee rate; eighty-five percent (85%) of Maintenance Technician 3rd class rate; ninety percent (90%) of Maintenance Technician 2nd class rate until such time a Certificate of Qualification is attained.
Premiums
An employee who is appointed to the role of shift engineer shall receive eighty-four ($0.84) cents per hour more than his/her classification rate during the period of his/her appointment.
An employee who is engaged in the work of a fire captain shall receive eighty-four ($0.84) cents per hour more than his/her classification rate for the shifts that he/she undertakes this work.
An employee engaged in shift work shall be paid a premium of ninety ($0.90) cents per hour for work performed during the evening shift and one dollar and twenty-one cents ($1.21) per hour for work performed during the night shift. An employee engaged in shift work, whose regular work schedule includes Sunday work, shall be paid, in addition to any shift premium, a premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour for each hour worked on Sunday between the hours of 7:30 am and 4:00 pm.
These premiums are to be added to the hourly rates after, and not before, calculating overtime.
Performance Incentive
An employee who qualifies to receive a performance incentive, as determined according to Article VII (g), shall be reclassified and receive one dollar ($1.00) per hour more than the normal classification rate during the period of payment.
For the purposes of clarity, classifications subject to a Performance Incentive in Schedule “A” are designated with an “E” in the Job Code. A Job Code so designated denotes two separate classifications, the higher rated classification is paid at a rate one dollar ($1.00) above the lower rated classification.
TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT
It is understood a former employee with required skills may return to the bargaining unit for a period of temporary employment at the former classification and rate.
Classifications in Schedule “A” for which such temporary status is applicable are designated with “T” in the Job Code. For the purposes of clarity, during such a period of temporary employment benefits will be statutory only, seniority status is not acquired, the
just cause provisions under Article II and the severance provisions under Article IX do not apply.
18
SCHEDULE“B”
VACATIONS
(1)	The purpose of this Plan is to provide annual vacations with vacation allowance for eligible employees.
(2)	All regular employees of the Company shall be eligible to participate in this Plan.
(3)	Annual vacations shall be granted as follows:
Service	Vacation Entitlement
Service beginning on or before the first day of July of the current calendar year	1 week
Service beginning on or before the first working day of the current calendar year but less than 3 years to be completed during the current year	2 weeks
3 years but less than 10 years to be completed during the current year	3 weeks
10 years but less than 20 years to be completed during the current year	4 weeks
20 years but less than 30 years to be completed during the current year	5 weeks
30 years or more to be completed during the current year	6 weeks
(4)	Commencing with 5 or more years of service a portion of a current year’s vacation may be carried forward to a subsequent year in accordance with the following:
Years of Service Completed in Current Year	Maximum Carry-Over Per Year	Maximum Cumulative Carry-Over
5 but less than 10	1 week	1 week
10 but less than 15	1 week	2 weeks
15 but less than 20	1 week	3 weeks
20 but less than 25	2 weeks	4 weeks
25 but less than 30	2 weeks	5 weeks
30 or more	3 weeks	6 weeks
(5)	(i) Each payroll employee granted a vacation shall be paid a vacation allowance
in an amount equal to the employee’s current hourly rate multiplied by 40
19
hours for each week of vacation; provided, however, that in cases in which the individual employee’s regular work week is less than 40 hours, the number of hours in the employee’s regular work week shall govern.
(ii)	Each salaried employee granted a vacation shall be paid a vacation allowance for each week of vacation equal to current regular salary calculated on a weekly basis.
(6)	(i) Vacations shall be scheduled by the Company and, as far as is practicable,
shall be arranged in advance for such time during the year as may be found suitable, after consideration has been given both to the wishes of the employees and to the efficient operation of the units concerned.
(ii)	An employee working in a unit whose operations are suspended at the end of a calendar year may, at his or her option, elect to receive part or all of the vacation that she or he would be entitled to in the subsequent calendar year during the shutdown period.
(7)	(i) An employee may purchase one week of vacation in addition to the vacation
to which she or he is entitled to under Clause 3. No lesser amount of vacation may be purchased.
(ii)	Vacation purchased under this clause shall be taken in accordance with the provisions of Clause 7 and must be taken after all vacation to which the employee is entitled under Clause 3 and Clause 4 has been taken.
(iii)	The purchase of vacation must be made at the initial enrollment or at each annual enrollment.
(iv)	If an employee elects to purchase vacation under this clause, the cost of the vacation shall be calculated in accordance with Clause 5 at the rate of pay applicable to the employee as of the freeze date. A portion of this cost will be deducted from the employee’s pay at each benefit payment date.
(v)	If an employee indicates that vacation elected under this Clause will not be taken in the calendar year, the amount deducted under paragraph (iv) shall be added back to his or her pay prior to the end of the calendar year.
(8)	(i) An employee who is eligible for at least 4 weeks of vacation under Clause 3,
and who has not elected to purchase vacation under Clause 7, may sell one week of vacation. No lesser amount may be sold.	.
(ii)	The sale of vacation under this Clause must be made at the annual enrollment.
(iii)	If an employee elects to sell vacation under this Clause, the value of the vacation shall be calculated in accordance with Clause 5, at the rate of pay
20
applicable to the employee as of the freeze date. The value of vacation sold shall be added to the employee’s pay at the beginning of each calendar year.
(iv)	A decision to sell vacation may not be rescinded.
(9)	The length of an employee’s vacation may be reduced because of absence from work during the twelve months immediately preceding 1st January of the year in which the vacation is scheduled to commence.
(10)	The amount of the vacation allowance shall be reduced by the applicable amount of any statutory or other vacation allowance paid to the employee upon termination of service during the current or the preceding year and the length of the vacation shall be correspondingly reduced.
(11)	The Company confirms it has revised its payroll practices so that an employee who, terminates from the Company, shall be paid for all vacation accrued to date of termination, at the employee’s applicable vacation entitlement.
(12)	An employee who is entitled to a vacation at the time of retirement shall be granted an allowance in an amount equal to:
(i)	any vacation allowance due and not paid for vacation earned in the previous year, and
(ii)	any carry-over to which the employee is entitled, and
(iii)	vacation earned in the year of termination prorated on the basis of time worked and the vacation entitlement in that year.
(13)	Any payments made or to be made under this Plan shall be exempt from seizure to the full extent permitted by law. No person shall have the right to assign any interest in any amount which is or may become payable at any time hereunder.
(14)	The Company shall administer this Plan and may make such regulations as may be deemed necessary and his or her decision in all matters involving the interpretation and application of this Plan shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all parties.
(15)	For the purposes of this Plan:
(i)	The term annual enrollment shall mean the period established for the election of coverage under the Company’s CHOICES Plan.
(ii)	The term benefit payment date(s) shall mean the date(s) on which benefit deductions are scheduled to be made by the system used to pay employees.
21
(iii)	The term Company shall mean INVISTA (Canada) Company and its predecessor companies and such subsidiary companies as may be designed by the Company.
(iv)	The terms employee and regular employee shall mean a regular employee of the Company. .
(v)	The term freeze date shall mean the date on which the price tags of benefit options are calculated, as defined in the Company’s CHOICES Plan.
(vi)	The term hourly rate shall, for a payroll employee, mean the hourly rate for the employee’s classification according to the schedule of rates in effect at the time vacation commences except that effect shall be given to any adjustment in rates occurring during the vacation period. Overtime work and wages paid therefore, and all premiums, are excluded from these calculations.
(vii)	The term initial enrollment shall mean:
(i)	At 1994 September 16 for all employees eligible to participate in this Plan on that date; or
(ii)	the date of hire for all employees hired subsequently.
(viii)	The term payroll employee shall mean an employee whose remuneration is based on hours worked.
(ix)	The term salaried employee shall mean an employee whose remuneration is based on a monthly rate.
INVISTA (Canada) Company
22
Site Manager - Kingston Site
23
ADMINISTRATIVE ITEMS
After discussions during negotiations, understanding was reached on the administrative items described in Appendices A to K. These are applicable for the duration of this collective agreement, and may be enforced pursuant to the grievance and arbitration provisions.
24
APPENDIX A
Administrative item:
Once nine (9) months have elapsed since the successful candidate(s) for a posted job are announced, and further opportunities exist in that classification, the Company will re-post that particular posting, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
APPENDIX B
Administrative item:
Company agrees to allow employees the opportunity to bank PRH pay, as it is earned, and to be released by the employee at their convenience throughout the year. In all cases any balance not so released or paid, will be paid out by year end of each calendar year.
The administration outlined above is subject to statutory or other regulatory requirements.
APPENDIX C
Administrative item:
As per Article III (k) of the collective agreement, “Members of the Union not exceeding ten (10) in number on any one day may be granted occasional leave of absence without pay for the purpose of attending normal functions of the said Union such as steward, executive, or general meetings and training courses.” In the case of Union Bargaining Committee members, when granted, leave will be without pay, and the Company will provide temporary remuneration, to be reimbursed by the Union (Maintain Pay Union -(MPU)). This will protect the earnings and service of the individuals involved.
As per Article XIII (d) of the collective agreement, in reference to Arbitration, “Each party shall pay its own costs and the fees and expenses of the witnesses called by it. Fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally between the parties.” In the case of Union Bargaining Committee members, when granted, leave will be without pay, and the Company will provide temporary remuneration, to be reimbursed by the Union (MPU). This will protect the earnings and service of the individuals involved.
The Company will pay the wages of the Union President for work undertaken at INVISTA (Canada) Company’s Kingston site. If the Union President requires leave to . perform Union functions at a location other than Kingston site, he will be expected to request leave without pay. When leave is granted, the Company will provide temporary remuneration for the period of leave, to be reimbursed by the Union (MPU). This will protect the earnings and service of the individual involved.
25
For negotiations, the Company will protect the normal earnings of Union Bargaining Committee members, for the time required to meet with the Company. For all other time required by the Union to prepare for negotiations, the Company will consider leave without pay. When leave is granted, the Company will provide temporary remuneration, to be reimbursed by the Union, which will protect the earnings and service of the individuals involved (MPU). Employees must communicate leave requirements to their line organizations.
For the time required by the Union to prepare, present and conduct the ratification vote, the Company will protect the normal earnings of Union Bargaining Committee members. Normally this process requires three days. For all other time required by the Union for this purpose, the Company will consider leave without pay. When leave is granted, the Company will provide temporary remuneration, to be reimbursed by the Union, which will protect the earnings and service of the individuals involved (MPU).
The Company will consider requests for leave, related to training for Union matters, on a case by case basis. In cases where the Company believes that the training will provide value to the business, it will consider granting leave with pay.
APPENDIX D
Administrative item:
Upon retirement, maintenance technicians will be allowed to retain the tool buggy and certain hand tools of limited life and value that were assigned to them by the Company.
APPENDIX E
Administrative item:
Whenever an opportunity that results in a change of essential duties arises in an area, that opportunity will be appropriately communicated to all employees in that area for not less than fourteen (14) days. It is understood for opportunities expected to last for less than ninety (90) days such communication shall not apply. The Company will share the results of all job opportunities with the Union.
APPENDIX F
Administrative item:
The deployment of temporary employees shall not restrict any seniority employee from his/her normal line of progression or delay the movement of a successful candidate to.a job posting.
26
The Company will discuss deployment of MSTs with the union, if any material change to this concept.
It is understood during the collective agreement term January 28, 2013 to January 27, 2017 that the classification Manufacturing Service Temporary (MST) shall not exceed one hundred (100) incumbents at any one time.
APPENDIX G
Administrative Item:
During negotiations for the renewal of the 2007 collective agreement a number of changes were made to progression and rates of pay in Polymer, Spinning, Post-Spinning, and Laboratory classifications. This administrative item describes transition treatment for employees affected by changes to progression.
Classification and Rates for Incumbents Following Ratification
Incumbents at the time of ratification will maintain their current classification and corresponding rate, unless otherwise indicated, provided they remain classified as such.
Incumbents in Spinning at the time of ratification, who have not reached the Spinning Technician classification, will continue to progress according to the Spinning line of progression in place at the expiry of the previous collective agreement, provided they remain in the Spinning line of progression. The top of the Spinning line of progression will be the Spinning Technician classification.
Transfers and Promotions Between Classifications for Current Employees
If an employee successfully posts to a line of progression with a higher rated classification (such as Polymer, Maintenance or Powerhouse), rate maintenance will apply until the new rate exceeds the previously classified rate.
If an employee successfully posts to a lower rated classification (such as Material Operator, Material Specialist, Batch Operator, Laboratory Operator, Laboratory Technician or Laboratory Specialist) the new, lower rate will apply.
Incumbents classified as Spinning Technician or Textile Machine Operator “A” who are receiving the instructor premium of ninety ($0.90) cents at the time of ratification, will retain this premium while performing the Instructor role. It is understood that employees who post into Specialist roles will not receive the instructor premium.
If an employee successfully posts to another role and is subsequently involuntarily regressed for performance or medical reasons within 6 months, or the normal time to the top of the progression (if the posted role is in a line of progression) the employee will be
27
returned his/her previously held classification and rate provided it does not displace an incumbent.
An employee previously classified as Spinning Technician who moves outside the Spinning line of progression and qualifies to return to the top of the Spinning progression may return to the rate of Spinning Technician.
In the event of regression due to lack of work, employees will regress to their previously held classification and corresponding rate (e.g. a Spinning Technician who successfully posted to Laboratory would be returned to Spinning Technician), subject to available work.	.
An employee who was terminated during the preceding eighteen (18) months due to layoff, who is re-hired will return to their previously held classification and corresponding rate, subject to available work in that classification. If an employee returns to a different classification, the current rate for that classification will apply. If the employee subsequently returns to the work they were performing immediately prior to termination due to layoff, the employee will be returned to their previously held classification and rate. Effective January 28, 2010 this paragraph will apply to employees laid off and recalled to employment.
If an employee otherwise moves from a higher rated classification to a lower rated classification they will receive the lower rate.
APPENDIX H
Administrative item:
In keeping with the Company’s performance based culture, a performance incentive system will be continued to encourage and reward positive contribution. Employees will be evaluated on their performance in each calendar year, and will be rated as “Meets,” “Exceeds” or “Does Not Meet”.
Exceeds
Designated classifications in Schedule “A” shall be deemed to have a higher level Exceeds classification at a wage rate which includes a performance incentive. Eligible employees, who are rated as Exceeds will be placed in the applicable Exceeds classification.
Employees in lines of progression who have not achieved the top level in the line of progression are not considered to be eligible employees.
28
Does Not Meet
Employees who are rated as Does Not Meet, will be reclassified, and receive the corresponding wage rate, as follows:
(a)	They will be reclassified into the classification most recently held prior to their current classification, if suitable work in such classification exists, except in the case of employees classified in the Polymer line of progression; or
(b)	In the case of employees classified in the Polymer line of progression, they will be reclassified to the last classification previously held outside the Polymer line of progression, if suitable work in such classification exists; or
(c)	They will be reclassified according to their qualifications for any suitable and available work; or
(d)	They will be reclassified as Service Operator.
For the purposes of clarity, employees in grandfathered classifications who are rated as “Does Not Meet” can retain their grandfathered status and move one level down from their current classification. For example, a Spinning Technician would be reclassified as a Manufacturing Technician IV, and a Laboratory Technician 1st Class would be reclassified as a Laboratory Technician 2nd Class.
For the purposes of reclassifying “Does Not Meet” employees, it is understood that an employee so rated will not be reclassified to a classification in which the employee was previously rated “Does Not Meet” (or equivalent) at the time of leaving that classification.
Implementation
An employee must be rated as Exceeds for two consecutive years to be eligible to move into an Exceeds classification and can maintain the classification as long as the employee continues to be rated as Exceeds. For the purposes of clarity, employees rated as Exceeds in the performance review reflecting two consecutive calendar years will move to the higher rated classification effective January 28th in the following calendar year.
Similarly, employees must be rated as Does Not Meet for two consecutive years before they will be reclassified in the manner set out above. For the purposes of clarity, a Does Not Meet employee for two consecutive calendar years will be reclassified after January 28th of the next calendar year.
Regression/Recall
Under Article VIII (g) of the collective agreement for the purposes of recall, employees qualified for work in a lower rated classification are deemed not to be sufficiently qualified for corresponding work in a higher-rated classification.
29
For the purposes of Article VIII of the collective agreement, employees who are rated as Does Not Meet in a particular classification for two (2) consecutive years shall be deemed not to be sufficiently qualified for that classification.
It is understood for the purposes of recall that employees rated as Does Not Meet who have been regressed due to performance, are considered less qualified for jobs than Meets and Exceeds employees, regardless of seniority.
General
The performance assessment of employees and payment of the performance incentive shall be determined by the Company pursuant to Article VII (g).
For the purpose of clarity, reclassification of an employee who is subject to regression or layoff shall not be made in a bad faith or arbitrary manner.
APPENDIX I
Administrative Item:
Notwithstanding Article V (a) of the collective agreement, subject to discussion with the Union prior to implementation, the Company may also introduce a shift system with four 10 hour shifts per week with one, unpaid meal period.
For the purposes of an initial pilot, such a 10 hour shift schedule will be implemented in the Maintenance (Reliability) organization on a Monday to Friday basis.
APPENDIX J
The parties have agreed to a trial period for remittance of union dues on a monthly basis, under the provisions of Article III (1).
APPENDIX K
Notwithstanding Article III (e) of the collective agreement, it is understood provisions of the Pension Plan will be amended,
Effective April 1, 2013:
• Temporary employees will be no longer eligible to participate in the Pension Plan. Effective January 1, 2015:
30
« The definitions of earnings will be amended to exclude the following earning types: (i) overtime (1.5x and 2x); (ii) shift premiums during overtime; (iii) the portion of premium pay for working on a holiday (i.e. above lx); (iv) bonuses (including incentive compensation and PIP). For employees active in the Plan on the effective date, Average Monthly Earnings will be based on the member’s AME on December 31, 2014 or the AME as defined by the Plan, whichever is greater.
•	The Plan will be amended to provide for a required contribution by employees eligible to participate in the Plan. The contributions will be equal to 2% of earnings (as defined in the Plan).
•	All current provisions for early retirement will be removed and the Plan will be amended to change unreduced retirement to age 65 in all situations. Employees will be eligible for early retirement at age 55. Any payments occurring before normal retirement age as a result of a retirement or termination of employment will be subject to a prorated 5% reduction per year. Notwithstanding the above, any employee who has a combination of years of service and age equal to or greater than 65 on December 31, 2014 shall be eligible for the early/unreduced retirement provisions in the Plan in effect as of December 31, 2014.