THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 21st day of November 1997.
BETWEEN:
CONSOLTEX INC.
hereinafter called the "Company” OF THE FIRST PART
■and-
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES
AFL-CIO-CLC, on its own behalf and on behalf of its Local 1664
hereinafter called the "Union”
OF THE SECOND PART
Effective from July 1, 1997 to June 30, 2000
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
I	Purpose ......................
II	Recognition ..................
III	Relationship .................
IV	Management Rights . . , , , . . , ,
V	Plant Executive	Committee ....
VI	Grievance Procedure ..........
VII	Arbitration ..................
IX	Discharge and	Discipline Cases
X	No Strikes - No Lockouts , . . ,
XI	Wages.......................
XII	Hours of Work	and Overtime	...
XIII	Vacation with Pay.............
XIV	Plant Holidays ...............
x v Seniority .......................
XVI	Job Posting ..................
XVII	Transfers ....................
XVIII	Bulletin Boards...............
XIX	Leave of Absence .............
Personal Leave ............
Sick Leave ................
x x Bereavement .....................
XXI	General ......................
XXII	Health and Safety.............
XXIII	Deduction of Union Dues ......
XXIV	Letters of Agreement ........
xxv Wage Rates ......................
XXVI	Shift Premiums................
XXVII	Rest Periods ................
XXVIII	Weekend Shift ..............
XXIX	Termination ................
APPENDIX LISTING	?	■
A	Job Classification and Rates
B Removed ......................... '
C	Letters of Agreement .........
PAGE
1
1
. . 2
. , . . 3 . . . 4 . .	7
. .	9
. . 10
, , , 12 13 .	14
. 20 .	23
.	25
.	31
.	34
.	36
.	36
.	36
.	39
.	41
.	42
.	46
. . 50 . .	51
.	51
.	53
.	53
64
66
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this agreement is to
establish mutually satisfactory relations between the company and its employees and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours of work and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this agreement.
The Company and the employees agree that upon any dispute or grievance to the Collective Agreement, the English Translation shall prevail.
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all employees, including all Purchasing and Traffic Department Office employees, of the Company at Alexandria, Ontario, save and except shift foremen, persons above the rank of shift foremen, chief stationary engineer, management trainees, switchboard receptionist, main office and sales staff and guards.
All employees in the exempt classifications above shall not do the work of union members, except in the event of an emergency, or for training purposes or for experimental work.
ARTICLE iii - RELATIONSHIP
3.01	The Company agrees to make reasonable
arrangements to afford an opportunity to
members of the Plant Executive Committee to interview new employees on the completion of their probationary period with a view to informing such new employees as to the contents of this agreement respecting union security. The Union and the members of the Plant Executive Committee agree to cooperate with the Company in this regard.
3.02	The Company agrees that no employee shall in
any manner be discriminated against or coerced, restrained or influenced on account of membership or non-membership in any labour activity or lack of activity in any labour organization.
3.03	The Union agrees it will not discriminate against, coerce, restrain or influence any employee because of his membership or non-membership, his activity or his lack of activity in any labour organization.
3.04	The Union will not engage in union activities
during working hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without the permission of the Plant Manager or his designates.
2
ARTICLE IV - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01 The Union recognizes and acknowledges that the management of the plant and direction of the working force are fixed exclusively in the
Company and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency:
b)	classify, hire, promote, demote, transfer, suspend and terminate employees and to
discipline or discharge any employee for cause, provided that a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided:
c)	make, enforce and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the
employees, but before putting such rules and regulations into force the Company will discuss them with the Union Committee:
d)	determine the nature and kind of business conducted by the Company, the kinds and locations of equipment, tools and materials to be used, the control of materials and parts, the methods and techniques of work, the schedules and rates of production, the number of
3
employees to be employed, the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations, or any part thereof and to determine all other functions and prerogatives which shall remain solely with the Company except as specifically limited by the provisions of this agreement.
4.02	It is agreed that during the lifetime of this
agreement the Company shall not conduct an organized time study.
4.03	It is agreed and understood that none of these
rights shall be exercised in a manner inconsistent with the express provisions of this agreement.
4.04	Where the Provincial Law overrules the
Collective Agreement, the Company will abide, e.g.: Pregnancy Leave & Parental Leave.
ARTICLE V
PLANT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
5.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the
Union to select a plant executive committee, six (6) in number. The Union may also elect or appoint four (4) stewards on day shift and two (2) stewards on each of the afternoon and night shifts as follows:
Production Planning - 1 steward (day shift)
4
Shipping, Receiving and Warehouse Laboratory, Maintenance - 1 steward (per shift)
Finishing, Coating - 1 steward (per shift) inspection and Maintenance (afternoon and night shift) - 1 steward (per shift)
Dyehouse and Greige - 1 steward (per shift)
Each member of the above committee and all stewards shall have seniority with the Company and shall be regular employees of the Company during their time of office. The Company will recognize and bargain with the said committee on any matter properly arising out of this agreement and the said committee will cooperate with the Company in the administration of this agreement.
5.02	The name and jurisdiction of each of the
stewards and the names of the executive
members from time to time selected shall be given to the Company in writing and the Company shall not be required to recognize any such steward or executive member until it has been notified in writing by the Union of the name and jurisdiction of same.
5.03	The Company undertakes to instruct all
members of its supervisory staff to cooperate with the stewards and executive members in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this agreement.
5
5.04	The Union undertakes to secure from its officers, stewards and executive members their cooperation with the Company and with all persons representing the Company in a
supervisory capacity.
5.05	The privileges of one (1) steward and three (3)
executive members to leave their work without loss of basic pay to attend to union business in the plant is granted on the following conditions:
a)	such business must be between the Union and Management;
b)	the time shall be devoted to the prompt
handling of necessary Union business;
c)	the steward or executive member and the employee concerned shall obtain permission of the foreman concerned before leaving their work. Such permission shall be granted if sufficient notice is given;
d)	the time away from productive work shall be reported in accordance with the time-keeping methods of the department in which the steward or executive member is employed.
5.06	Under normal circumstances, executive members meet once per month. Occasionally circumstances arise which require additional meetings. The Company agrees that time off
6
without pay to attend such meetings shall be granted and the Union agrees that proper notice of such meetings shall be given to the company and that no more than two (2) executive members shall be absent from any one department to attend such meetings.
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	The parties of this agreement are agreed that it is of the utmost importance to adjust complaints and grievances as quickly as possible.
6.02	No grievance shall be considered where the
circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated more than five (5) full working days before filing of the grievance.
6.03	Grievances properly arising under this agreement shall be adjusted and settled as follows:
Step 1
The aggrieved employee shall present his
grievance orally or in writing to his foreman. He shall have the assistance of his steward or an executive member if he so desires. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within two (2) working days (or any longer period which may be mutually agreed upon) the grievance may be presented as follows at any time within two (2)
7
working days thereafter.
Step 2
The aggrieved employee with his steward or an executive member, may present his grievance (which shall be reduced to writing on a form supplied by the Union and approved by the Company) to the Plant Manager or his designate, who shall consider it in the presence of the person or persons presenting same, and the foreman, and render his decision in writing. Should no settlement satisfactory to the employee be reached within two (2) working days, the next step in the grievance procedure may be taken at any time within two (2) working days thereafter.
Step 3
The aggrieved employee may submit his grievance in writing to the Plant Executive Committee. A maximum of three (3) members of this Committee shall meet with the management to consider the grievance. Such meeting shall be held within ten (10) days of the grievance being presented to the Company. At this stage, they may be accompanied by a representative of the International Organization if his or her presence is requested by either party.
6.04	If final settlement of the grievance is not completed within seven (7) working days after
6
deliberations have commenced and if the
grievance may be referred by either party to the single arbitrator as provided in Article VII below, at any time within twenty-one (21) days thereafter, but no later.
6.05	Any difference arising directly between the Company and the Union regarding an alleged violation of this agreement may be submitted in writing by either party pursuant to this Article at Step No. 3 of the Grievance Procedure and ultimately to arbitration if necessary.
ARTICLE VII - ARBITRATION
7.01	Both parties to this agreement agree that any
dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of the agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the grievance procedure outlined in Article VI above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to a single arbitrator at the request of either of the parties hereto.
7.02	The Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario will be asked to nominate a member of the judiciary of the Province of Ontario to act as single arbitrator.
7.03	The decision of the single arbitrator shall be binding on both parties.
9
7.04	The single arbitrator shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this agreement.
7.05	Each of the parties to this agreement will bear
the expenses of the single arbitrator appointed by the Minister of Labour.
7.06	At any stage of the grievance procedure
including arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned, any necessary witnesses, relevant records, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant to view disputed operations and to confer with necessary witnesses.
ARTICLE VIII - NON EXISTENT ARTICLE IX
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE CASES
9.01	Employees will not be discharged except for just cause. When an employee, who has attained seniority, is discharged, written notification shall be given to the employee and to his steward or to a member of the plant executive committee and to the local union secretary. In the event of
10
an employee who has attained seniority being discharged from employment and the employee feeling that an injustice has been done, the case may be taken up as a grievance.
9.02	All such cases shall be taken up within three (3) working days and disposed of within seven (7) days of the date the employee is notified of his discharge, except where a case is taken to arbitration. A claim by an employee, who has attained seniority, that he has been unjustly discharged from his employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Plant Manager or his designate within three (3) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step No. 2 will be omitted in such case.
9.03	Such special grievances may be settled by
confirming the management's action in dismissing the employee or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
9.04	When an employee has been dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to interview his steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises.
11
9.05	The following provisions shall apply with respect to discipline and discharge:
a)	any written warning or discipline or discharge slip will be issued in triplicate, one copy going to the employee, the Union and the Company respectively;
b)	if a disciplined employee deems he has been disciplined without cause, he may have access to his Union representative and appeals from the Company's decision to discipline must be submitted in writing by the Union within seven (7) days following the discipline. Such appeals shall start with the third step of the Grievance Procedure.
c)	all warning slips shall be void if, after ten (10) months, no similar offence has occurred.
ARTICLE X
NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS
10.01	In view of the orderly procedures established by this agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling of grievances, the Union agrees that, during the life of this agreement, there will be no strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout.
10.02	The Company shall have the right to
12
discharge or otherwise discipline employees who take part in or instigate any strike, picketing, stoppage or slowdown, but a claim of unjust discharge or treatment may be subject to a grievance and dealt with as provided in Article VI above.
10.03	Should the Union claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lockout, it may take the matter up with the Company as provided in Section 6.03 of Article VI.
ARTICLE XI - WAGES
11.01	During the term of this agreement, the Company and the Union agree that all payments of wages will be made in
accordance with the wage rates set forth in the attached Job Classification list, which is hereby made a part of this agreement.
The employees are given the option of having their wages paid by “Direct Deposit”. This decision is left to the discretion of the employee. Employees choosing “Direct Deposit” must stay with the program for a minimum of one year (12 months) after signing the request forms.
11.02	An employee who reports late for his shift, will have deducted from his pay the number of minutes that he is late.
13
ARTICLE XII
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
12.01	The following paragraphs and sections are intended to define the normal hours of work and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week or of days of work per week.
12.02	a) Day
The day is considered to be from 12.01 a.m. to midnight.
b)	Work Week:
The work week is from 12.01 a.m. Sunday to Saturday midnight.
c)	Day Work:
8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday consisting of eight (8) hours per day inclusive of one half (V2) hour paid lunch break, forty (40) hours per week.
When leaving Company premises during working hours, if it is necessary for an employee to leave work during working hours the employee must first obtain permission from their foreman or immediate supervisor, secondly the employee must punch out when leaving and punch in when returning.
The working hours may be flexible as agreed
14
by both Management and Union.
d)	Shift Work:
Eight (8) hour shifts inclusive of a thirty (30) minute paid lunch break, forty (40) hours per week worked according to the following rotation 00:00 to 08:00 /16:00 to 24:00 / 8:00 to 16:00 from 00:01 Monday to 24:00 Friday. Maintenance operation shall be considered as shift work.
e)	If the Company wishes to institute a
regularly scheduled seven (7) day week in additional areas to those presently in force, the Company and the Union must mutually agree to the terms of the change before it comes into effect.
12.03	It is understood that no employee may leave his department prior to 3 minutes before the end of his shift.
12.04	a) All work performed beyond the normal
working day and ail work performed in off-scheduled hours shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half ((1 -Vi) excepting that all work performed on Sunday shall be paid at the rate of double (2) time.
b) All overtime rates shall be based on the employee's basic rate plus shift premium, where applicable.
15
c) In the event an employee agrees in working two (2) full consecutive shifts, the Company agrees to provide such employee with a paid one-half (VS) hour break at the
beginning of his overtime shifts, during which time he may leave the plant.
12.05	When a machine operator or a rotating
maintenance shift worker does not report for duty and sufficient prior notice has not been received, the operator or the rotating maintenance shift worker shall remain on duty if no volunteers are available or until a replacement is obtained or up to a maximum of two (2) hours. That employee shall not be required to work more than four (4) hours of overtime in any calendar week.
The above employee who is required to stay back into the next shift less than fifteen (15) minutes on overtime shall be paid fifteen (15) minutes at straight time.
The above employee who works overtime for fifteen (15) minutes or more, that employee shall be paid time and one half (1-%) his hourly rate to the nearest quarter (%) hour.
12.06	All work performed on Saturday between
12:01 a.m. and 12:00 midnight shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (1-VS) without regard to the number of hours worked.
16
All work performed on Sundays between 12:01 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on the said Sunday shall be paid at the rate of double time (2) without regard to the number of hours worked.
Neither the Saturday premium nor the Sunday premium as the aforesaid, shall apply to jobs having a regularly scheduled seven (7) day week.
12.07	The Company agrees that the working of
overtime is a voluntary matter, the decision resting with the individual, except when 12.05 applies.
12.08	All opportunities for overtime shall be offered by seniority on an equitable basis with due regard to experience and skill.
A list will be posted weekly from Tuesday 12:00 noon to Thursday 12:00 noon for
overtime during the weekend. The Company shall use this list for planning employee overtime if required as so stipulated in the paragraph of Article 12.08.
An employee who agrees to work scheduled overtime and does not work the overtime, that employee shall miss the next opportunity to overtime, unless the employee can provide an acceptable reason for his absenteeism.
17
However each department shall have the option of establishing an “Overtime Scheduling Guideline” for their own department. Such Guideline(s), once established and approved by the employees of the department, must be documented and thereafter shall govern the scheduling of overtime for that department only and shall be deemed to form part of this agreement. For the purpose of this agreement, the “Appendix "B" Overtime Scheduling Procedures” as listed in the July 1994 to June 1997 contract shall become the Guidelines for the respective departments.
In the event changes to the Departmental Guideline(s) are requested by either party, management will meet with the Union (Executive Committee and worker representatives from the department concerned) to discuss the proposed changes and in the event agreement is not reached, the guideline currently in effect shall continue in full force and operation.
12.09	Maintenance employee(s) who are working on a machine breakdown (emergency) these employees will be asked on a voluntary basis to work a maximum of two (2) hours overtime to repair breakdown of production equipment. The Union agrees to wave seniority rights for these ... (emergency repairs). In the event
18
employee(s) above refuses overtime, paragraph one (1) Article 12.08 shall prevail.
12.10	Overtime shall be applied as per clause 12.08 and 12.09.
12.11	Banking of Overtime Hours (Pay)
The banking of overtime hours is to have a maximum of 40 hours totalled per 6 month period.
Two six (6) month period:
January to June July to December
There will be no carry over from the last month of the period to the start up of the
following period. This arrangement will be in effect as per the first week of the accounting period for the year 1998 and thereafter.
12.12	Despite any other provision in this agreement, in the event an employee is incorrectly bypassed for the working of overtime, such employee shall be offered make-up work, in his own department, according to the following formula:
If by-passed for eight (8) hours of overtime, the employee will work six (6) hours of makeup and be paid for eight (8) hours at time and
19
one-half (11/2); for other than eight (8) hours of by-passed overtime, the make-up work will be offered and paid in the same ratio.
It is understood that make-up work must be completed within fourteen (14) days of its being offered, must not be regular production work and will be comprised of housekeeping, painting and/or filing. It is further understood that such make-up work shall not interfere with or have any effect on the normal scheduling of overtime for the employee concerned or for any other employee(s).
ARTICLE XIII VACATION WITH PAY
13.01	All employees shall be granted vacations with pay in accordance with the schedule set out below:
Seniority Vacation	Duration Vacation	of Vacation Pay
0 to 2 years	2 weeks	4.5%
2 to 5 years	3 weeks	6.0%
5 to 10 years	3 week	3 8.0%
10 to 15 years	4 weeks	9.0%
15 to 20 years	4 weeks	10.0%
20 to 25 years	5 weeks	11.25%
25 years and over	5 weeks	11.50%
20
Vacation pay as referred to in the schedule above shall be calculated on the employees gross earnings in the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st of the current year (i.e. from July 1st of the previous year to June 30th of the current year) and shall be distributed as follows:
Employees shall have the option:
a)	Receiving their vacation pay on one (1) cheque to be issued not later than the Friday of the last pay period immediately preceding the annual summer shutdown; or
b)	Having their vacation pay split into two (2) cheques; the first to be paid not later than the Friday of the last pay period immediately preceding the annual summer shutdown and the second to be paid between July 1st and December 31 st.
Employees selecting option b) must give the Company at least one (1) month's written notice prior to the date the second cheque is requested.
ADDITIONAL VACATION YEAR PERIOD LIMITATION
The additional week(s) vacation shall be applied and defined as continuous service completed prior to July 1st.
i.e.
Seniority earned during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st of that year.
Concrete Example
First day of service; September 18th, 1977.
Two years service completed; September 18th, 1979.
This employee would be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation on July 1, 1980 only. This
employee would be able to take his additional week(s) holiday (at mutual convenience of the Company) between July 1st, 1980 to June 30th, 1981.
It is further understood that whenever possible, the employee shall take his vacation during the annual plant shutdown and that any additional vacation shall be taken at mutual convenience of the Company and the employee. This (these) additional week(s) shall be taken from July 1st to June 30th. In the event that the plant will be closed for three (3) consecutive weeks for the annual summer plant shutdown the employee shall be notified on or before April 1st previous to the shutdown; and or no later than May 1st.
13.02	In the event of a conflict over the scheduling of vacation, seniority shall be the sole governing factor.
22
ARTICLE XIV - PLANT HOLIDAYS
14.01	All employees who have attained seniority shall receive payment for the following plant holidays:
Dominion Day
The First Monday in August
Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day
Remembrance Day
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
New Year's Day
January 2
Good Friday
Victoria Day
a)	On the work day immediately preceding or immediately following the plant holiday, if the employee is late more than one-half (VS>) hour at the beginning of his shift a corresponding time, in one quarter {'A) hour increments, shall be deducted from his plant holiday pay up to a maximum of two (2) hours late. After two (2) hours late, no payment for the plant holiday shall be made.
b)	If the employee does not report for work or does not complete his shift on the work day preceding or immediately following the plant holiday, no payment shall be made unless he
23
is absent with the permission of the management, or through sickness certified by a doctor's statement, or in receipt of Workmen's Compensation benefits, provided such absence shall not exceed ten (10) working days.
c)	If an employee works on one of the above named paid plant holidays, he shall receive payment at time and one-half (1-V4) for the time actually worked by him in addition to receiving his holiday pay.
d)	When a plant holiday falls on a nonworking day or during a plant shutdown, a (1) day shall be granted in lieu of the plant holiday. That day shall be the first normal working day following the aforementioned plant holiday. For all intent and purposes this day in lieu shall be considered as a plant holiday.
14.02	In addition to the plant holidays listed in Article 14.01, all employees who have completed their probationary period as set out in this agreement shall be entitled to two (2) days pay each year, without time off.
The first day's pay shall be included in the last pay before Christmas and the second day's pay shall be included in the pay of the week ending the second (2nd) Saturday in
24
February.
For the purpose of this article, a floating day's pay shall be in an amount equal to eight (8) hours at the employee's current regular rate of pay.
ARTICLE XV - SENIORITY
15.01	In all cases of promotion other than a
promotion to a position outside the bargaining unit the following factors shall be considered skill, competence, efficiency, reliability and seniority. It is understood that where the factors referred to above other than seniority, are relatively equal, then seniority shall govern.
15.02	An employee transferred to another job or recalled to another job in accordance with
15.01	above, shall have a period often (10) working days to reach normal proficiency on the job, if normal proficiency is not obtained in ten (10) working days, the employee will return to his or her former job.
15.03	An employee will be considered probationary for the first four hundred and eighty (480) working hours accumulated over a six (6) month period and will have no seniority rights during that four hundred and eighty (480) working hours service, accumulated over a six
25
(6) month period, his seniority shall date back to the day on which employment began.
15.04	Seniority shall terminate when an employee:
a)	quits for any reason
b)	is discharged and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration;
c)	has been on lay-off for a continuous period of:
-	twelve (12) months with 0 to 5 years seniority
-	eighteen (18) months with 5 years and over seniority.
d)	who has been on lay-off for a continuous period of less than twelve (12) months or eighteen (18) months depending on their seniority and who, when notified by registered mail addressed to the last address he has recorded with the Company, fails to notify the Company within five (5) working days that he is intending to return to work as soon as possible after receiving notice and in any event within seven (7) days of mailing or other communications of such notice, unless he shows that he is prevented from notifying the Company or from reporting for work by a legitimate sickness or other reasonable cause.
26
e)	fails, to return to work immediately after the expiration of a leave of absence unless prevented from doing so by illness or other cause which is reasonable:
f)	is absent from work for more than three (3) consecutive working days unless absent due to verifiable illness or unless there was reasonable justification for such absence.
15.05	a) Layoffs and recalls from layoffs shall be conducted by department according to the divisional seniority of the employees in such department as may be affected. In the event of a lay-off of fourteen (14) days or less employees shall be laid off by divisional seniority in each department so affected. The remaining employees could be assigned new jobs temporarily to do work remaining in the affected departments. In such an instance no employee would be paid less than his normal rate of pay and in the case where an employee is transferred to a higher rate job, they shall be paid that higher rate.
b) Should a layoff occur which appears likely to the Company to exceed fourteen (14) days, the week and weekend employees would be combined together and the Company would proceed to lay off the most junior employee(s) in his division.
27
The Company has the sole right to ask the most junior employee(s) to move to the weekend shift.
c)	In the event an employee is not able to displace the most junior employee in his
division, that employee shall bump the second (2nd) most junior employee in his division, then the third (3rd) most junior employee in his division etc., until that employee finds a job into which he can bump, provided he has the seniority to do so.
d)	Employees who have been forced to leave their departments because of a cutback and have exercised their bumping rights, shall have recall rights to their former jobs for a period of eighteen (18) months.
e)	Recall rights shall be lost if:
a)	the employee refused recall; or
b)	the employee applies for and is awarded a posted job; or
c)	the employee quits the Company Converting Division:
Shipping, Receiving
& Warehouse	Coating
28
Inspection Production Planning Laboratory
Greige
Dyeing Finishing
Maintenance Division:
Maintenance
The above shall be subject to the
qualifications referred to in clause 15.01.
15.06	An employee shall accumulate seniority under any of the following conditions:
a)	while he is at work for the Company, after he has completed his probationary period as set out in 15.03;
b)	during any period when he is prevented from performing his work for the Company by reason of injury arising out of and in the course of his employment for the Company and for which he is receiving compensation under the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Act.
15.07	An employee who does not qualify to
accumulate seniority under Section 15.06 shall maintain his existing seniority unless and until he loses same pursuant to Section 15.04.
15.08	An employee's return to work after sick leave
29
will be conditional on his supplying, when requested, a certificate from a physician that he is fully recovered from the sickness which caused his absence.
15.09	Seniority as referred to in this agreement shall mean length of continuous service in the employ of the Company and shall be on a divisional basis namely length of continuous service in one (1) of the two (2) divisions of the Company at Alexandria that is the Converting Division and the Maintenance Division. Separate seniority lists shall be established for each of the two (2) divisions.
15.10	The two (2) separate lists will be revised each six (6) months. Copies of the lists will be posted in the plant and a copy given to the Union. After the posting of the first seniority lists of employees, the lists shall be deemed to be conclusive, unless objected to within fourteen (14) days.
15.11	In the event that an employee covered by the agreement should be promoted to a supervisory or confidential position beyond the scope of this agreement and is later transferred to a position within the scope of this agreement, he shall retain the seniority previously acquired and shall have added thereto the seniority accumulated while serving in such supervisory or confidential
30
capacity. This applies to a period up to six (6) months served in the supervisory or confidential capacity. After the above six months have been applied the employee shall have lost seniority for purposes of lay-off, promotion, etc., but shall maintain seniority for calculation of vacation pay and any other benefits which may be in effect at the time. Up to the six (6) month period, if the employee or Company refuses the above mentioned position, the employee shall return to their prior job. The replacement employee goes to the junior position in their department, if the employee has sufficient seniority, failing this, to the most junior job in the employee's division.
ARTICLE XVI - JOB POSTING
16.01	When a vacancy occurs within the Bargaining Unit or a new position within the Bargaining Unit is established by the Company, such newly established position or vacancy shall be posted within the Company for a period of three (3) working days. A copy of such posting shall be provided to the Union within twenty-four (24) hours.
16.02	Only employees who have attained twenty-four (24) months of plant seniority (i.e. from date of hire) shall be eligible to apply for a posted vacancy provided such application is
31
submitted to the Company in writing within the posting period.
16.03	The Company will evaluate the skill,
competence, efficiency and reliability of the employees bidding for such vacancies and where skill, competence, efficiency and reliability are relatively equal seniority shall govern. In any such evaluation the Company and the Union shall discuss the matter prior to the announcement of the decision.
However, if the employee believes that skill, competence, efficiency and reliability have not been given due consideration, he may file a grievance under the provisions of Article VI, claiming that the Company acted in an arbitrary, unfair and/or discriminatory manner and the matter may be submitted to arbitration. The Arbitrator shall have full authority to rule on all matters in dispute and any increase in pay resulting from the disposition of the grievance shall be applied retroactively to the date of the grievance.
16.04	When an employee has been awarded a posted vacancy he shall be moved to the job within ten (10) working days of his being
notified by management.
It shall be the sole responsibility of the Department Superintendent to ensure that the
32
employee and the payroll department are properly notified of such award.
16.05	The successful applicant will be placed in the vacancy for a training/trial period often (10) working days.
If the employee proves satisfactory, then he shall be considered permanently assigned to the vacancy. If however during that time the employee proves unsatisfactory, or the employee feels he is unable to perform the duties of the vacancy to which he has posted, the employee will be returned to his former position at his former rate of pay, as will any other employee who was promoted or transferred by reason of such placing.
16.06	An employee shall not be allowed to bid for another posted vacancy for nine (9) months from the date of his being moved to the new job.
If however for any reason the employee is not placed in his new job within ten (10) days of his being notified of the move, the nine (9) months will be deemed to begin ten (10) working days following the date of his being notified.
16.07	In the event of a vacancy resulting from any leave of absence of ninety (90) days or less
33
(including Sick Leave & Workers Compensation), only the original (1st) vacancy will be posted however any vacancy resulting from such posting shall be filled by first offering it, in order of seniority, to employees on lay-off; if not filled in this manner the Company may then hire from outside the bargaining unit.
In the event of a vacancy resulting from any leave of absence of over ninety (90) days (including Sick Leave & Workers’ Compensation), the vacancy must be filled under the normal job posting procedures outlined in this agreement.
ARTICLE XVII - TRANSFERS
17.01	In a case of a permanent transfer or a job obtained by bidding for a posted job, the employee shall receive the following rate:
a)	if the rate for the new job is higher than the previous rate, the employee shall receive the new rate before a maximum of thirty (30) working days;
b)	if the rate for the new job is lower, the employee shall receive the new rate immediately.
17.02	An employee who, for the convenience of the
34
Company, is temporarily transferred to another job for which the rate of pay is different from that in effect for such
employee's regular job, shall be paid while so employed as follows:
a)	if the rate of pay for the job to which he is transferred is higher than the employee’s regular pay, he shall receive his own higher rate of pay;
b)	if the minimum rate of the range for the job to which he is transferred is higher than the employee’s regular pay, he shall receive the minimum rate or if the employee displays efficiency, skill or ability relatively equal to that of the employee performing the job to which he is transferred, a rate commensurate with that being paid to such employees.
17.03	An employee who for the convenience and benefit of the employee, is temporarily transferred to another job because of a layoff in the plant due to lack of work, breakdown of machinery or other like cause, shall be paid, while so employed as follows:
a) If the rate of pay for the job to which he is transferred is less than the employee’s regular pay, he shall receive the lower rate paid for the job to which he is transferred;
35
b) If the rate of pay for the job to which he is transferred is higher than the employee's regular pay, he shall receive such higher rate provided that he displays sufficient efficiency, skill, and ability to perform the job to which he is transferred, and until such time as he displays such efficiency, skill, or ability, he shall continue to receive his own regular rate.
17.04 Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is understood and agreed between the parties that in the event of a transfer for less than a full shift, the employee will receive his regular rate of pay for the balance of the shift.
ARTICLE XVIII BULLETIN BOARDS
18.01	The Company will provide bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory locations throughout the plant, which are available for the Union in posting notices of Union activities.
18.02	All such notices must be signed by the proper officers of the Union and submitted to the Plant Manager or his designate for approval before posting .
ARTICLE XIX LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01 The Company will grant leave of absence
36
without pay to not more than three (3)
employees in the bargaining unit to attend Union conventions or conferences, and it is agreed by the Union that in selecting the members every effort will be made to avoid affecting the production of the plant, and the time so requested will be kept to the minimum.
In the case of a union school, the Company agrees to grant a leave of absence to the executive members and stewards who are on duty during the time of school provided that sufficient written notice is given to the Company. It is further agreed that such union school sessions will be of not more than one
(1)	day at a time and shall be limited to twice
(2)	per year.
PERSONAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.02	a) The Company will grant a leave of absence to any employee for legitimate personal reasons, provided sufficient notice is given so that management can arrange the work schedule so as to avoid significant loss of production. Request for leave of absence by employees at Alexandria, must be in writing to the Plant Manager or his designate, with reason clearly stated and reply will be given in writing. Any leave of absence granted by the Company to such employees shall be limited
37
to three (3) months with provision made for return to their regular job when leave of absence expires. An extension. of a further three (3) months can be applied for and, if granted, it is with the understanding that the employee will accept any job that may be available, in the event that his previously held job has been satisfactorily filled. An employee shall not take employment elsewhere while on a leave of absence without the consent of the Company.
b)	When an employee returns from a leave of absence inside a three (3) month period with authorization, this employee will return to his original job and every other employee who have signed postings concerning this leave of absence shall also return to their original job.
The nine (9) month waiting period for signing a posting will be void when they return to their original job. This means that these employees will be able to sign for future postings.
If the employee does not return from his leave of absence, employees who have signed the posting identified as a leave of absence, automatically get the job and have six (6) months left before being able to sign another posting. This should be beneficial for the employees and the Company, especially for small departments.
38
19.03	If an employee overstays his leave of
absence, he is presumed to have severed employment with the Company, unless he can give a satisfactory explanation for his inability to return to work on the expiry date of his leave of absence.
SICK LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.04	If an employee finds that he is unable to
report to work he will notify the Plant Manager or his designate or foreman at Alexandria as the case may be, if possible before the start of his shift, or as soon thereafter as possible.
If absence is due to illness of the employee and is to exceed seven (7) days, the leave of absence will be given in writing by the Company.
This leave of absence will be granted with the understanding that the employee will return to work when physically capable of doing so, but in any case, such leave of absence may not exceed one (1) year, if the case so warrants, further extensions will be granted thereafter.
When an employee returns from a leave due to illness or non-work related accident or receiving Workmen's Compensation benefits while in the employ of Consoltex Inc., the employee will return to his original job and
39
every other employee who has signed postings concerning this leave of absence shall also return to their original job.
If absent for a period of over 24 consecutive months, the employee will be provided with any job available or at the very least the junior employee’s job in their division provided he or she is able to do the work.
19.05	If an employee is absent for more than three
(3)	consecutive working days, without proper notification to the Company, he is presumed to have severed employment with the Company, unless he can give a satisfactory explanation for his inability to provide this notification and for his inability to return to work.
19.06	A copy of all leaves of absence shall be sent to the Union.
19.07	In the event that an employee is injured while on duty, that employee will be paid at straight time for the remainder of his shift if said employee must leave the plant for medical treatment and can provide reasonable evidence that he is unable to return to work for the remainder of his shift.
In the event that an employee is injured during an overtime shift, that employee shall
40
be paid at the overtime rate up to the time of injury and the balance of the shift at the base rate, if that employee is unable to return to work.
19.08	JURY AND WITNESS DUTY
Employees subpoenaed to serve as a Juror or a witness in a Civil or Criminal Court Proceeding shall be granted a leave of
absence for the period required for such duty.
Upon the employee's presenting a certificate signed by the Clerk of the Court indicating the period of service, the employee shall be paid the difference between the amount received from the Court and the employees straight time wage rate to make up his wages for all scheduled work days lost.
ARTICLE XX BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
20.01	In the event of a death in an employee’s family, the employee will be granted time off work without loss of pay in order to attend the funeral or take part in the funeral arrangements or otherwise be in attendance in connection with the death.
Such time off work will be granted in
accordance with the schedule set forth below:
41
a)	Four (4) working days in the event of the death of the employee’s mother, father, wife, husband or child.
In addition to the four (4) days indicated above, an employee will be granted one (1) additional working day off without loss of pay for the purpose of attending the spring burial of the employee’s mother, father, wife, husband or child.
b)	Three (3) working days in the event of the death of the employee’s brother or sister.
c)	Up to three (3) working days, the last of which must be the day of the funeral, in the event of the death of the employee’s mother-in-law, father-in-law, step-mother, stepfather, step-mother-in-law, step-father-inlaw, or legal guardian.
d)	One (1) working day to attend the funeral of the employee’s grand-parents, sister-inlaw or brother-in-law.
For the purpose of this article, sister-in-law or brother-in-law shall be defined as the spouse of the employee’s brother or sister.
ARTICLE XXI - GENERAL
21.01	During the lifetime of this agreement the
42
Company agrees to pay the full cost of Ontario Health Insurance (O.H.I.P.) premiums applicable to employees in the bargaining unit who have attained seniority.
21.02	An employee other than a maintenance
employee who has completed his regular
shift, leaves the plant and is then recalled to work, shall receive a minimum of three (3) hours pay at time and one-half (1 %) his basic rate.
21.03	Employees reporting for work as usual on a regular working day, unless notified by the previous day not to report and for whom no work at his regular job is available, shall be offered at least four (4) hours employment in other work at the employee's current rate of wages, or at the Company's option, will be paid four (4) hours pay in lieu of work. This provision shall not apply if the failure to provide work is caused by reason of a strike or other work stoppage, machinery breakdown, fire, flood, power failure or other like cause beyond the control of the Company.
21.04	Maintenance employees who are called in to work to effect emergency repairs or emergency maintenance are subject to the following conditions:
43
a)	they shall remain in the plant available for work for a minimum of one (1) hour;
b)	they shall be paid for a minimum of two (2) hours at time and one-half (1 Vi);
c)	all hours worked in excess of two (2) hours on a specific call-in shall be paid for at the applicable rate provided for by the collective agreement;
d)	if the employee punches in priort o 7.01 a.m. conditions (a), (b) and (c) shall apply;
e)	if the employee punches in after 7:00 a.m. he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/z) up to his scheduled starting time (usually 8:00 a.m.). In this case, pay calculation shall be made on the basis of the nearest quarter (14) hour.
f)	A maintenance employee on a call-in shall be paid travel allowance of one (1) additional hour at this regular rate of pay.
21.05	It is agreed that there will be a joint effort by the Union and management to make certain that every employee is aware of the hazardous chemicals in the plant.
21.06	Any major change or any substantial change in the work loads shall be discussed in depth
44
with the union executive and a representative of the International Union.
If the Company and the Union are unable to agree on the proposed change or substantial change in work loads, the Company may institute such change or substantial change in work loads for a trial period of eight (8) consecutive calendar weeks.
In the event that agreement is not reached at the termination of the trial period, the matter shall be submitted to an arbitrator appointed by the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario. The arbitrator shall have full power to rule on such change or substantial change in work loads and to set the wage rate or rates for the jobs affected. His decision shall be final and binding on both the Company and the Union and any change in the wage rates shall be retroactive to the beginning of the trial period.
21.07	The Company acknowledges that it is the
right of each individual employee to view his own personnel file in the presence of Management on Company premises.
A notice shall be given to the superintendent of the department concerned twenty-four (24) hours in advance.
45
21.08	Employees working the 12-8 shift shall be paid before 8 a.m. Thursday morning of said 12-8 week, if possible.
Employees working day shift 8-4, employees working evening shift 4-12, their cheques will be available in their respective departments after 13:00 Thursday.
21.09	The Company shall pay 50% of straight time earnings to the members of the Plant Executive Committee when attending negotiation meetings with management, or jointly meet with a Conciliator or a mediator.
ARTICLE XXII HEALTH AND SAFETY
22.01	The Company agrees to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of employees during the hours of their
employment and to give full consideration to any suggestions from the Union and/or Joint Health and Safety Committee to that end.
22.02	The Company will adhere to the Ontario
Occupational Health and Safety Act which includes the continuation of a Joint Health and Safety Committee comprised of an equal number of representatives from Management and from the Union which will meet monthly to review health and safety issues. Union
46
representatives shall be selected by the Union without any interference from Management.
22.03	One (1) member of the Committee shall be
appointed to act as Chairman and such appointment shall be on an alternating basis from management and the Union. Minutes must be taken at all meetings and must be distributed to all members of the Committee, the Plant Manager, the President and Recording Secretary of the Union.
Each month two (2) representatives from the Committee (one from Management and one from the Union) will conduct a safety inspection of the plant and report the results of the inspection to the Joint Health and Safety Committee.
22.04	All accidents or injuries must be investigated by two (2) representatives from the Joint Health and Safety Committee (one from management and one from the union).
22.05	All time spent on Health and Safety
Committee meetings, investigations and/or monthly inspections shall be considered as time worked and the Company agrees to pay such employee at their current regular hourly rate of pay, and/or any applicable overtime rate.
47
22.06	The Company will ensure that one member of the Joint Health and Safety committee who represents management and one (1) member who represents the bargaining unit employees are certified members under the Occupational Health and Safety Act ("OSHA"). The members who are selected to become certified shall be paid as required by the OSHA as if they were at work while they are fulfilling the requirements of becoming certified.
The Company agrees that the person
selected by the Union to become the Certified Worker Member shall be trained at a course offered by the Workers' Health and Safety Centre ("WHSC") within a 300 hundred kilometre radius of Alexandria at such time as the Union may request.
22.07	The Company shall provide all protective
clothing and safety equipment as required by the Joint Health and Safety Committee.
22.08	The Company shall supply protective clothing and equipment for employees in the Coating Department, the Finishing Kitchen, the Dyehouse Kitchen, Receiving, Maintenance Department and to Allocators.
22.09	The use of such protective clothing and
equipment as required by the Joint Health and
48
Safety Committee shall be mandatory.
22.10	The Company agrees to replace all worn and damaged protective clothing and equipment upon the return of the old or damaged clothing and equipment.
22.11	Upon receipt of invoice the Company agrees to subsidize the cost of safety footwear for employees who have completed their
probationary period according to the following.
Effective July 1st 1997 ALL EMPLOYEES: up to a maximum of ninety ($90.00) dollars and after July 1st 1999 the Company agrees to pay up to a maximum of ninety-five ($95.00) dollars towards the purchase of one (1) pair of safety footwear per year or in the case of dyehouse employees, towards the purchase of three (3) pair of rubber boots;
COATING DEPARTMENT MIXERS: shall be granted up to a maximum of an additional ninety ($90.00) dollars or ninety-five ($95.00) dollars according to the above schedule, towards the purchase of a second pair of safety footwear.
22.12	Extended Health Care (Semi-Private,
Prescription Drugs) shall include Vision care in the amount of $80.00 per 24 months per person and the Company shall pay 100% of
49
the premium. Employee will pay $5.00 deductible fee per prescription.
The Union agrees that the Company may
change carriers at any time; provided that in doing so the benefits under the new plan are equal to, or better than those under the current plan.
22.13	The Company agrees to pay $1 SO per week per employee towards their “Short Term Disability Plan”“.
22.14	The Company shall provide a $1 0,000.00 Life Insurance Policy for all members and shall pay 100% of the premium cost of the policies.
ARTICLE XXII I
DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
23.01	During the lifetime of this agreement, the Company shall deduct from the pay of all employees by this agreement who have attained seniority, on the first full week, the weekly sum designated by the Union as dues and shall remit same prior to the end of such month to the Union of Needle Trades Industrial and Textile Employees, AFL-CIO-CLC. The Company shall also deduct from the pay of all employees covered by this agreement who have attained seniority, the
50
sum designated by the Union as an initiation fee and shall remit same when the employee attains seniority with the first payment of weekly deductions. The said sums shall be accepted by the regular weekly dues and the initiation fee of those employees who are or shall become members of the Union and the sums so deducted from the non-members of the Union shall be treated as their contribution towards the expenses of maintaining the Union.
ARTICLE XXIV LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
24.01	All Letters of Agreement listed in Appendix "C", signed and agreed to by the Union and Management shall form part of this Collective Agreement unless otherwise agreed.
All Letters of Agreement signed and agreed to by the Union and Management during the life of this agreement shall form part of this agreement unless otherwise agreed.
ARTICLE XXV WAGE RATES
25.01	a) Job classification rates are listed in
Appendix A to the present collective agreement.
51
b)	Lead Hand in the Inspection Department shall be paid $0.25/hour more than the highest rate in the Inspection department.
25.02	a) A new employee shall commence working at a wage rate which Is forty cents ($0.40) below the scheduled rate for his job classification. At the completion of his four hundred and eighty (480) working hours probationary period his wage rate shall be increased by twenty cents ($0.20), which is twenty cents ($0.20) below the scheduled rates.
At the completion of one year seniority, the rate will be increased by twenty cents ($0.20) per hour to the scheduled rate.
b) A new employee in the maintenance department, “A” Trade, licensed, shall commence working at a wage rate which is forty cents ($0.40) below the scheduled rate for his job classification.
At the completion of his four hundred and eighty (480) working hours probationary
period his wage rate shall be increased by forty cents ($0.40) per hour to the scheduled rates.
52
ARTICLE XXVI SHIFT PREMIUMS
26.01	Afternoon shift $0.35 per hour.
Night Shift $0.60 per hour.
ARTICLE XXVII - REST PERIODS
27.01	All employees shall receive a ten (10) minutes paid break during the first half of their shift and a ten (10) minutes paid break during the second half of their shift.
27.02	In addition all employees shall receive one half (1/z) hour paid lunch break in the middle of their shift.
27.03	It is understood that the scheduling of all breaks is the responsibility of the Company. The scheduling of all breaks will be done in such a way that no continuous production equipment (Tenter frames, Coating Ranges, Dyeing equipments) will stop because of such break periods.
27.04	It is also understood that smoking will be allowed during the scheduled breaks only.
27.05	In order to ensure the continuity of operation of the Finishing Tenter Frame it is agreed that the Finishing Mixers, the Sanforizer/Sueder, Calendar and Breaker Operators will form a
53
“Pool” for the sole purpose of relieving the Tenter Frame Operators while they are on their rest and lunch breaks.
NOTE: It is understood that the Company will create one additional Sanforizer/Sueder
operator's position.
ARTICLE XXVIII WEEKEND SHIFT
28.00 This agreement applies to the following
Converting Division:
Greige Department Dyehouse Department Finishing Department Coating/Stork Department Inspection Department Quality Control Department Planning Department Laboratory Department Warehouse Department
Maintenance Division:
Maintenance Department
Weekend employees will be paid 40 hours for 32 hours worked.
In recognition of the acceptance of the
54
importance of the "32/40" formula for the
weekend shift operation by both parties, It is the Intent of management that the following shall apply.
1)	Weekend shift employees will work two (2), twelve (12) hour shifts during the weekend and will work one (1) scheduled eight (8) hour shift during the week on either the first (1st), second (2nd) or the third (3rd) shift.
2)	The weekend employees will be assigned as follows:
a)	On idle equipment;
b)	Vacation replacement:
c)	Replacement on job(s) which may be created in future during the week;
d)	Straight replacement of job.
3)	Except as in #2 c) & d) above, it is the intent of management that the normal hours of work, as defined in Article XII of the
agreement, of regular week day employees WILL NOT be reduced by virtue of their duties being assigned to weekend employees.
PURPOSE
28.01	The Company and Union agree on total
flexibility of employees working on weekend shift inside of each department. By having one flat rate per department, we expect
55
employees to operate any machine(s) that is/are scheduled, after they have been trained.
PLANT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
28.02	The Union may elect or appoint one (1)
steward per weekend shift to represent the weekend shift employees.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
28.03	No grievance shall be considered where the circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated more than seven (7) calendar days.
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
28.04	The regular work week for employees working on weekend shift will be from 00:00 a.m. Saturday morning until 24:00 midnight Sunday. Consisting of two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts from:
00:00 to 12:00 noon Saturday
12:00 to 24:00 midnight Saturday
00:00 to 12:00 noon Sunday
12:00 to 24:00 midnight Sunday
One (1) scheduled 8 hours shift from Monday
to Friday.
28.05	The weekend shift employee will rotate every weekend.
56
28.06	All additional hours of work performed during the week shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate as per job Classification
Appendix “A” and shall include shift premium where applicable.
28.07	The scheduled weekend overtime does not apply to employees hired to work during the weekend.
VACATION WITH PAY
28.08	The vacation schedule for the weekend
employees will consist of 3 weekends in a row at summer shutdown and will be paid according to the following schedule.
Seniority 0 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 to 10 years 10 to 15 years 15 to 20 years 20 to 25 years 25 years and over
It is understood that no other time off will be . granted for vacation purposes unless both parties mutually agree. It is understood that the vacation pay percentage refers to the employee's earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding July 1st of that
4.5%
6.0%
8.0%
9.0%
10.0%
11.25%
11.50%
57
year and distribution as follows:
All employees shall receive their vacation pay percentage the week preceding the annual shutdown.
PLANT HOLIDAYS
28.09 Plant Holiday: For weekend purposes
a)	A plant holiday is deemed to be 8 hours at the flat rate at straight time of the department to be paid once a year at Christmas time.
b)	All weekend employees who have attained seniority shall receive payment for plant holiday equivalent to 1 holiday per month
provided he did work during that month. One extra pay holiday will be paid at Christmas provided that the employee has worked during the month of December.
c)	At Christmas time all weekend employees will have two (2) weekends off in a row and be paid for the equivalent plant holiday they are entitled to.
d)	It is understood that regular employees joining the weekend shift will be paid at
Christmas the remaining plant holiday he is entitled to and shall not exceed the equivalent of 13 paid holidays per year.
e)	For calculation purposes a calendar year
58
shall be used to calculate plant holidays.
SENIORITY
28.10	An employee will be considered probationary for the first 480 hours accumulated over a six (6) month period his seniority shall date back to the day on which employment began.
Should a lay off occur which appears likely to the Company to exceed fourteen (14) days, the week and weekend employees would be combined together and the Company would proceed to lay off the most junior employee(s) in his Division.
The Company has the sole right to ask the most junior employee(s) to move to the weekend shift.
28.11	Employees working on weekend shift will be contacted by phone to offer them the job and the opportunity to sign a posting. They will be required to come in the plant through the Main Office to sign postings in their respective department. The department superintendent or supervisor and one union steward will be assigned to call and keep record of who was called.
59
TRANSFERS
28.12	Employees who transfer from the regular work week to the weekend work force or vice versa shall be paid the applicable rate of the job they transfer to, starting the day they are physically transferred.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
28.13	On weekend:
The weekend shift employee in the event that he is Injured while on duty, that employee will be paid at the rate that he would have been normally paid if he had finished that shift.
Purina 5 dav regular week:
In the event that a weekend shift employee is injured during an overtime shift, that employee shall be paid at the overtime rate up to the time of injury and the balance of the shift at the bass rate, if that employee is unable to return to work. In this case, the rate of pay will be the one found in Appendix “A”.
GENERAL
28.14	No weekend shift employee will be recalled after 12 hours of work during the course of the following shift if he has left the plant.
28.15	The weekend employee cheques will be
60
available in their respective departments after 1:00 p.m. Thursday. They will be allowed to come to the front office to get their cheques if they so desire or they will be given to them on the Saturday in their department.
WAGE RATES
28.16	Weekend shift flat rate.
Department Dyehouse Finishing Coating Inspection Greige Laboratory Off ice Warehouse Maintenance Licensed Millwright
1 st 1 st July July 1996	1997
13.10
12.80
13.00
13.00 12.60 12.75 12.50 12.85
13.48
13.18
13.38
13.38 12.98 13.13 12.88 13.23
1st
July
1998
13.86
13.56
13.76
13.76 13.36 13.51 13.26 13.61
1st
July
1999
14.24
13.94
14.14
14.14 13.74 13.89 13.64 13.99
15.98 16.36 16.74 17.12
SHIFT PREMIUM
28.17	The shift premiums are included in the flat rate as established in 28.16.
61
REST PERIOD
28.18	Employee on weekend shift will receive two (2) half (1/2) hour break periods for their lunch. It is understood that the scheduling of the breaks is the responsibility of the Company.
28.19	It is to be understood that Appendix "A” rates apply for any work outside the regular hours of work as defined in 28.04.
ARTICLE XXIX TERMINATION
29.01 This agreement shall remain in forcejjntil June 30, 2000 and sfiall continue-in force "yearlo'year thereafterunless, not more thin ninety (90) days and not less than sixty (60) days before.-the date of termination, tither party furnished the other with notice of termination of or proposed revision of this agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representatives, as of the day and year first above written.
62
UNION OF NEEDLE TRADES INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES U.N.l.T.E. ON ITS BEHALF AND BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL 1664.
P. Quig V. Poirier s. C6t6
P. MacDonald C. Deschamps
C.	MacKay
CONSOLTEX INC.,
D.	Racine J. Filteau M. Lafleur
63
APPENDIX A
A: JOB CLASSIFICATION AND RATES
JOB	July 1 July 1 July 1
CLASSIFICATION	1996 1997 1998
DYEING DEPARTMENT
Dyeing Machine
Operator	13.23	13.61	13.99
Dyeing Kitchen Mixer 13.36 13.74 14.12
Pad/Washer Operator 12.86 13.24 13.62
FINISHING DEPARTMENT
Finishing Mixer	12.93
Frame Operator	12.86
Calendar Operator 12.86 Button Break Operator 12.86 Sanforizer/Sueder Operator	12.86
COATING/STORK DEPARTMENT
Coating Mixer	13.26	13.64	14.02
Knife Tender	13.06	13.44	13.82
13.31	13.69
13.24	13.62
13.24	13.62
13.24	13.62
13.24	13.62
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
A trade licensed
Electrician	16.73	17.11
High Pressure Welder 16.49	16.87
Machinist	16.13	16.51
Millwright	16.13	16.51
A trade	14.60	14.98
17.49
17.25
16.89
16.89 15.36
64
July 1 1999
14.37
14.50
14.00
14.07
14.00
14.00
14.00
14.00
14.40
14.20
17.87
17.63
17.27
17.27 15.74
B trade C trade Labour Janitor
14.15 14.53 14.91 13.75 14.13 14.51 12.60 12.98 13.36 12.70 13.08 13.46
PURCHASING & TRAFFIC
Office	12.73 13.11 13.49
OFFICE
Office	12.73 13.11 13.49
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT Lead Hand	13.60
Final Inspector	13.11
Pre Inspector	12.75
Clubber	12.75
Re-Examiner	13.35
13.98
13.49
13.13
13.13 13.73
14.36
13.87
13.51
13.51 14.11
SHIPPING, RECEIVING & WAREHOUSE
Receiver	13.22	13.60
Checker	13.06	13.44
General	12.49	12.87
13.98
13.82
13.25
LABORATORY
Dyehouse Lab Operator 12.88 13.26 13.64
Quality Control	.
Lab Operator	12.88 13.26 13.64
PRODUCTION PLANNING
Expeditor	12.93	13.31	13.69
65
15.29
14.89
13.74
13.84
13.87
13.87
14.74
14.25
13.89
13.89 14.49
14.36
14.20
13.63
14.02
14.02
14.07
GREIGE OPERATOR
Allocator	12.95 13.33 13.71 14.09
Beamer	12.75 13.13 13.51 13.89
APPENDIX B - REMOVED
APPENDIX C
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #001 BETWEEN CONSOLTEX INC.
Alexandria, Ontario AND
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILES EMPLOYEES Local 1664
IMPROVED VENTILATION
The Company shall make every effort to improve
ventilation throughout the plant within a reasonable period of time.
Renewed at Alexandria, Ontario This 16th day of September, 1994.
66
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #002 BETWEEN CONSOLTEX INC.
Alexandria, Ontario AND
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES Local 1664
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
In an attempt to offer an opportunity to Consoltex production employees, Consoltex has decided to implement an Apprentice Program in conjunction with the Ontario Ministry of Skill and Development.
The following criteria must be respected:
A posting will be put up to read as follows:
a)	Be presently employed by Consoltex Inc.
b)	Must attend classes on a day release basis (One day per week in Cornwall)
c)	Must provide proof of graduation from grade ten (10).
d)	Must past a series of tests:
i)	English proficiency
ii)	Mathematics
iii)	Mechanical ability
67
e)	Prior experience relevant to maintenance would be an asset.
9 Salary: as per Contract
Should finalists possess equivalent qualifications, final decision may be based on seniority. Note: Program could last a maximum of 4 years.
The successful candidate will undergo a personal
interview with a representative of management and the union.
Candidates writing a test will be issued a number, which will be kept confidential until after completion of test.
If the successful candidate comes from the production division, he has to realize that his plant seniority will be lost, but NOT for the purpose of vacation calculation.
The aforementioned is a guideline. Future programs may involve somewhat different regulations and will not set an established precedence.
Renewed at Alexandria, Ontario
This 16th day of September, 1994.
68
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #003 BETWEEN CONSOLTEX INC.
Alexandria, Ontario AND
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILES EMPLOYEES Local 1664
DYE HOUSE PLAN
The Parties agree that this Plan will best achieve their goal of improving the efficiency of the operation and thus enable us to gain long term success in face of today's intense foreign and domestic competition.
PURPOSE
It is the intent of the Parties that this Plan serve as a sound basis upon which to forge a new Partnership in which the Union can become actively involved with Management to strengthen the Company's economic performance both short and long term and initiate Joint Employee Involvement Programs designed to improve quality and productivity.
PART I
1)	The Jets and Bianco would be combined to form one segment of the operation.
2)	The Jets and Bianco would be operated initially by:
69
i)	Two (2) operators on one shift;
ii)	Two (2) operators on another shift; and
iii)	One (1) operator a third shift.
3)	Immediately upon the introduction of an additional Jets, the Jets and Bianco would be operated by:
i)	Two (2) operators per shift Part I would allow for the greatest and most effective use of the Bianco on a 24 hours a day basis. It would also require the least amount of training now and when filling future job postings.
PART II
1) The Open Beams and the Jigs would be combined to form another segment of the operation.
Part II would also require a minimum amount of training and would facilitate the sharing of any
increased workload on the Jigs.
PART Ill
1)	Eliminate the ‘General' Job Classification.
2)	Pad unloaders would have the responsibility of
helping in the loading and unloading of the Closed Beams.
3)	The Pad Dyer would do Pre-Weighing.
70
PART IV
1)	A Joint Union/Management Committee would be established to oversee the operation of the Plan in the Dye House.
2)	The Committee would consist of:
a)	Three (3) representatives from Management;
and
b)	Three (3) representatives from the Union:
i)	The President of the Local;
ii)	One (1) other member of the Local Executive (to be selected by the Executive Committee); and
iii)	One (1) representative from the Dye House (selected by the Dye House employees).
3)	The Committee will meet not less than once per month or more often as needs dictate.
Renewed at Alexandria, Ontario
This 16th day of September, 1994.
71
■ LETTER OF AGREEMENT #004 BETWEEN CONSOLTEX INC.
Alexandria, Ontario AND
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND - TEXTILE EMPLOYEES Local 1664
MAINTENANCE CONTRACTING OUT
The Company agrees that to the extent possible, all regular maintenance work will be performed by our employees. The Union agrees that outside contractors may be employed by the company for the installation or replacement of equipment, if no qualified employee is available or that the equipment is purchased on an Installed or Serviced basis.
The Company will, if possible, employ unionized
contractors when necessary on an installation, service basis or on regular maintenance work.
This 4th day of November, 1994
72
LETTER OF AGREEMENT #005
PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT BETWEEN CONSOLTEX INC.,
Alexandria, Ontario
(hereinafter referred to as “The Company) AND
UNION OF NEEDLETRADE, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES Local 1664
(hereinafter referred to as “The Union”) PURPOSE
The parties recognize the world is changing and that organizations must also change to meet the challenges of this environment. The parties further recognize that the adversarial labour relations of the past threaten the success and survival of the Company and the Union. To ensure the well-being of employees and the business success of The Company, we also need to change. To meet these challenges the parties have therefore agreed to form a partnership.
OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the Partnership are to:
1) Recognize the values and goals of each
73
organization and strive to find ways to make those values and goals contribute to the success of the partnership.
2)	While recognizing that there are no absolute
employment security guarantees, to endeavour to improve the employment security of employees by continuously improving operations.
3)	Develop and implement joint initiatives which enhance customer service.
4)	Balance the interests of Consoltex Inc. and the employees through joint decision making between the Company and the Local Union on matters of mutual concern.
5)	Increase the success of the Local Union in the areas of leadership, and partnership effectiveness.
6)	Empower employees to bring forth their ideas, solve and prevent problems.
7)	Create and enhance a healthy and safe work environment.
THE PARTNERSHIP
The Partnership draws the values, goals and resources of U.N.l.T.E. and Consoltex inc. in a mutually beneficial relationship.
At the core of the Partnership are the following beliefs:
1)	The success of Consoltex, Alexandria is best
achieved through adaptability, cost effectiveness, responsiveness and continuous improvement.
2)	Employee involvement and empowerment is achieved by involving employees, through U.N.I.T.E., in the decision making process.
The Partners recognize that the changes needed in both organizations to achieve the objectives of the Partnership is substantial, and will likely be a long
process. Both the Company and the Union are fully committed to achieving these changes and will build a relationship based upon openness, honesty, cooperation, and healthy conflict resolution.
The Partners further recognize that substantial changes of this nature can place a great deal of stress on the employees. The Partners further recognize that a comprehensive program of training and education can help to ease some of this stress. Both the Union and the Company are committed to cooperating in the setting up of such programs including, but not limited to, Literacy Training, Basic Skills and Technical Upgrading.
The Company and the Union will likely cooperate on many issues and will disagree on others. The Union and the Company encourage and value differing perspectives. Challenge and disagreement will not
75
threaten the Partnership because they are healthy and result in better decisions.
OPERATING OF THE PARTNERSHIP:
The Partners are jointly committed to the effective
operation of the Partnership and may form “Teams” or “Task Forces” for this purpose.
The formation of such “Teams” or “Task Forces” shall be governed by the following:
1)	They require joint consensus between the Company and the Local Union as to their
mandate.
2)	They should be as lean as possible while
assuring quality results and participation.
3)	They require consensus between the Company and the Local Union on their composition.
4)	Worker representatives must be designated or elected by the Union with no interference from the Company.
5)	Worker representatives must be given adequate time, without loss of income, to prepare for meetings.
76
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DYEHQUSE PROBLEM SOLVING TEAM'S RECOMMENDATIONS:
As part of this Partnership Agreement, the Partners agree that the recommendations of the Dyehouse Problem Solving Team, as presented on January 18, 1996, be fully implemented on a trail basis for a period of twelve (12) months. The Partners further agree that upon the completion of this twelve (12) month trial period, the Partners will review and assess the success of these recommendations.
DYEHOUSE PROBLEM SOLVING TEAM:
The current Dyehouse Problem Solving Team will
remain in place and will be charged with overseeing the implementation of their recommendations, meeting periodically to assess its progress and reporting their findings to the Partners.
WITHDRAWAL:
In the event that, at any time, Management refuses to deal with the Union as a full and equal partner, the Union reserves the right, upon written notice to the Company, to withdraw from this Partnership.
Signed at Alexandria, Ontario This 23rd day of April 1996.
77