and the
“NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA) AND ITS LOCAL 40”
and
PLANTRULES AND REGULATIONS
INDEX
PART I -AGREEMENT
Article No. 1 2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
Page
General Purpose...........................3
Union Recognition.........................3
Union Security and Check Off............3-4
Reservation of Management Rights..........4
Strikes and Lockouts......................4
Union Shop Committee................... 5-6
Stewards..................................6
Grievance Procedure.....................7-9
Arbitration........................... 9-10
Seniority.............................10-13
Layoff............................... 14-16
Recall.............................. 16	-	17
Transfer............................ 17	-	18
Promotion............................ 18-19
Hours of Work........................... 19
Rest Period..............................20
Wash-up Period...........................20
Legal Holidays....................... 20-21
Vacation with Pay....................21	-	22
Wages................................22	-	27
Overtime Pay.........................28	-	29
Shift Premium........................... 29
Report Pay........................... 29-30
Emergency Call Pay.......................30
Employees Injured........................30
Bereavement Cl surra.....................31
Jury Duty................................31
Group Insurance Plat.................31	-	35
Employees’ Pension Plan..................36
Health and Safety........................36
Bulletin Boards..........................37
Company Regulations......................37
Termination Clause...................... 37
Schedule A............................38-39
PARTII
Employee’sGuide.......................39-42
Safety Rules......................... 42-44
1
PART I
This Collective Agreement made and entered into as of the 2nd day of August, 1993
By and between:
HARDING CARPETS INC. (BRANTFORD)
Hereinafter designated as the "Company"
and the
"NationalAutomobile Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada) and its Local 40"
Hereinafter designated as the "Union"
2
—	Article 1 —
GENERAL PURPOSE
1:01 The general purpose of this Collective Agreement is to provide for the general welfare of the Company and its employees,to further promote and improve the good relations existing between the parties in a spirit of good will, tolerance and understanding.
NO DISCRIMINATION
1:02 The Company and the Union agree that there Mil be no intimidation, discrimination, interference, restraint, or coercion exercised or practised by either party against any employee because of an employee’s race, colour, nationality, ancestry, place of origin, religious or political beliefs, sex, marital status or age.
—Article2 —
UNION RECOGNITION
2:01 The Company agrees to recognize the Union as the sole and exclusive Bargaining Agency for its employees, excluding:
a)	Department Heads, Foremen, Foreladies, Watchmen, 1st and 2nd Class Engineers, and all others having power to hire, suspend or dismiss employees.
b)	Executive and office employees, including designers, and all others engaged in a confidential capacity.
—	Article 3 —
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK OFF
3:01 The Company agreesthat all present employeessubject to this Agreement, except new employeesduring their probationary period, shall become and remain members of the Union in good standing as per the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union.
3
3:02
3:03
3:04
3:05
3:06
4:01
New employees shall make application for membership in the Union on forms furnished iy the Union at the time of their hiring, and shall become and remain members of the Union in good standing as per the constitution and Bylaws of the Union.
The obligation of the Company to dismiss employees who fail to remain members in good standing shall arise only if the Union furnishes evidence that the employees’ connection with the Union has been terminated forreasons which are'\ust and equitable.
The bona fides of the action under this clause may be subject to review through grievance procedure and arbitration, if necessary, having due regard to the factthat in any event the Company is obliged to deduct Union dues from all eligible employees for the duration of this Agreement.
The Company agrees that it will, for the full period of this Agreement deduct weekly from the earnings of all eligible employees union dues and remit monthly the money so deducted to the person designated by the Union, whose receipt therefore shall be considered as a discharge to Harding Carpets forthe amount so deducted,
The Company further agrees that it will deduct weekly from the earnings of all new employees union dues and remit same monthly to the person designated by the Union, whose receipt therefore shall be considered as a discharge to Harding Carpets for the amount so deducted.
— Article 4 —
RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Nothing in thi s Agreement shall be interpreted as limiting the Company in any way in the exercising of the regular and customary functions of Management.
4
5:01
6:01
6:02
6:03
6:04
— Articles —
STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockouts of ita employees and the Union agrees that there will be no strikes or other collectiveaction which will stop or interfere with production.
— Article 6 —
UNION SHOP COMMITTEE
In order to establish an orderly procedure for the handling of grievances and disputes, the Union shall appoint a Committee to be known the Union Shop Committee, such committee not to exceed four (4) in number.
The Companyshall be kept informedofthe personnel ofthe Shop Committee.
The Shop Committee shall be organized as follows:
a)	Union Stewards will be designated as set out below in Article 7 - Stewards.
b)	For the purpose of meeting with the Management as outlined in Article 8 - Grievance Erocsdureparagraph
8:02 Step 3 and 4.
1)	The Union Steward from the shift of the area involved.
2)	The Chairman of the Shop Committee.
3)	The other two (2) members of the Shop Committee to be selected by the Union.
The Union acknowledges that Stewards and Union (fir-ers have duties to perform on behalf of the Company, and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without arrangingthe matter with their foreman, or immediate supervisor,and when resuming their regular duties, they will report to their foreman or supervisor, and will give reasonable explanation which may be requested with re-spedto their absence.
5
6:05 It is clearly understood that Union Officers and Stewards v\^l not absentthemselves from their regular duties unreasonably in order to deal with the grievancesof employees, or with other Union business, The Company will compensate such employees for time spent in handling-grievances andatte ndi ng meetings vith Management, at thei r regular rateofpay.
6:06 The Company till pay the union negotiating team an aggregate of 280 hours for the time spent negotiating a new collective agreement.
— Article 7 —
STEWARDS
7:01 There shall be one (1) Steward for the employees of the areas and shifts listed below:
Day Shift
1.	Wet Processing
2.	Finishing
3.	Tufting
4.	Material Handling'
5.	Maintenance
Afternoon Shift
6.	Wet Processing
7.	Finishing
8.	Tufting, Material Handling and Maintenance
Might Shift
9.	Wet Processing
10,	Finishing
11.	Tufting, Material Handling and Maintenance
6
8:01
8:02
— Article 8 —
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
a)	Should grievances arise between the Company and the Union or employees as to the meaning and application of the provisions of this Agreement or as to the compliance by either party with any of its obligations under this Agreement or should there be any complaint or grievance by any employee or the Union or the Company, there shall be no suspension or interruption of work on account of such grievances. The settlement of such grievance shall be handled in the followingman-ner, subject to the provisions of paragraph 9:05.
b)	Both parties agree that section 44 (6) of the Ontario Labour Relations Act will not apply in respect to this CollectiveAgreement.
Step 1:
Verbally between the employeeand his immediate supervisor; The employee may be accompanied by his Union Steward, if he desires such assistance. The decision of the Supervisor shall be made within twenty-four (24) hours.
Step 2:
If the immediate supervisor fails to settle the grievance satisfactorily the Steward shall reduce the grievance in writing in quadruplicate on forms to be supplied by the Company. The Steward shallpresent the copies of the grievance to the Supervisor for his written disposition, which will be given within two (2)working days.
Step 3:
Failing settlement at Step 2 the Chairman of the Shop Committee shall discuss the matter with the next level of supervision within three (3)working days and endeavour to effect a settlement. A decision atthis level shall be made within three (3) working days.
Step 4:
The Chairman ofthe Shop Committee may present the grievance to the designated representative of Management who shall consider the grievance at a meeting with the Shop
— 7 —
8:03
8:04
8:06
8:06
Committee. Such meeting wi 11 be held within five (5) working days of the presentation of the grievance to the designated representative of Management. His written answer shall be given to the Chaiimanof the Shop Committee not later than five (6) working days after the meeting. It is agreed that a National Representative cf the Union maybe present at this step at the request of either of the parties.
If the Company has a grievance, it shall be taken up with the ShopCommitteedesignatedby theUnionandthe try resentative designated by the executives of the Company. If the Union has a pdicy grievance such grievance may be Ned at Step 4 of the Grievance Procedure. A policy grievance is defined as and limited to one which alleges an actual violation of the specific provision of this Agreement and which could not otherwise be resolved at a lower step ofthe grievance procedure becauseofthe nature and scope of the grievance.
If it is found after investigationthat an employee has been wrongly dismissed, demoted or suspended, such employee shall be re-instated and paid at his or her wage rate or average earning for any time lost through the dismissal, demotionor suspension,or by any other arrangement which may be deemed j ust and equitable in the opinion of the representative of the Management and the Union.
All decisions arrived at by agreement between the Company and the Shop Committee shall be binding upon the Company and the employees.
Any andall time limits in the Grievance BxrFctiremay be extended by mutual agreement in writing of the parties hereto; however, unless otherwisemutually agreed,a grievance wi 11 be deemed to have been abandonedif the Union fails:
1)	to proceed to Step 1 within thirty (30)working days from the time ofthe alleged incident.
2)	to process a grievance from one step to the next within ten 0-O)days or receipt ofadecision atSteps 1, 2, or 3.
3)	or, if the Lhimfaits to request arbitration wrtbinthirty (30) days of receipt of the decision at Step4.
8
8:07 Discharge
A claim made by an employee who has acquired seniority rights that he has been dischargedwithout just cause will be treated as a grievance if a written statement of the grievance is lodged with the Management within ten (10) working days afterthe employee ceases to workforthe Company. A discharged person may interview his committee man for a reasonable period of time, if he so requests,before leaving the Company’spremises. The preliminarysteps ofthe grievance procedure shall be eliminated in such cases, and discussion of the grievance dall commence at Step 4 of the Grievance Procedure. Such a grievancemay be resolved by confirming the Company’s action in discharging the employee,or by re-instating the employeewith full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is consideredjust and equitable in the opinion of the parties or of any Board of Arbitration to which the matter is referred.
8:08 At any stage of the Grievance Procedure, including Arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employeesconcerned and any necessary witnesses and relevant records, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant, to view disputed operations and to confer with the necessarywitnesses.
— Article9 —
ARBITRATION
9:01	In the event that the grievance or dispute cannot be satis-
factorily settled by the methods outlined above, the matter shall be referred to a Board of three arbitrators, one of such arbitrators to be appointed by the Company, one by the Union, and the third arbitrator to be mutually agreedupon by the other two arbitrators, provided that in the event of the failure of the two arbitrators, to agree upon a third arbitrator, they shall request the assistance of the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario in the selection of such third arbitrator, who shall be a resident of the Province of Ontario.
9
9:02
9:03
9:04
9:05
9:06
10:01
10:02
10:03
No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involvedin an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
Each member of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it, and the parties wi I Ij ointly bear the expenses of the chairmanof theArbitration Board, if any.
No matter may be submitted to Arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure,
TheArbitration Board shall not be authorizedto make any decision inconsistentwiththe provisionsof the Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, nor to deal with any matter not coveredby the Agreement.
Th eproceedingsof the ArbitrationBoardwi 11 be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of such Board will be final and bindingupon the parties hereto.
—ArticlelO —
SENIORITY
The principle of seniority based on length of continuous service with the Companywithin the bargainingunit, shall govern in the event of promotions, transfers, layoffs and recalls, subject to the followingprovisions:
a)	Plant wide seniority shall mean seniority within the bargaining unit and shall govern as noted.
b)	Job classificationseniority shall mean senioritywithin
a given occupation.
c)	Company service shall mean years of continuousserv-ice with the Company and shall govern in respect to pensions, vacations and group insurance.
a)	A new employee will serve a probationary period of sixty (60) daysworkedbefareacquiringseniontyri^its. If an employee is laid c£f during his probationary pe-riodandif he is recalledhe wi II acquireseniorityrights when he has worked sixty (60) days in any consecutive
— 10 —
six (6) month period, in which event, his seniority dabs will be a date sixty (60) scheduled working days prior to the date on which his seniority rights were acquired.
b)	Time absent when on Worker’s Compensation shall not be subtracted from a probationer’s seniority cred-itsbut is to be computed after he has worked sixty (60) days.
10:04 Seniority lists shall be kept up to date by quarterly revisions. Copies of the lists will be issued to Union Officials and Stewards. An employee’sseniority record will be made available to him on request. With the exclusion of clerical errors, seniority lists shall be final thirty (30)days after being issued,however, it is agreed that this paragraph shall be administered fairly and reasonably.
10:05 Promotions to supervisory positions shall not be subject to the provisions of this Agreement. An employee who has been transferred from the bargaining unit and is subsequently transferred back to the bargaining unit shall retain his seniority. However, he shall not accumulate more than three (3) years additional seniority prior to his return.
10:06 It is clearly understood that Foremen and Assistant Foremen will only perform jobs related to their positions.
10:07 In the event of a lay-off or recall, an employee will have choice of shifts within hisjob classification in accordance with his plant wide seniority.
10:08 Termination
Employment is terminated when:
a)	An employee is dismissed and not re-instated.
b)	An employee quits.
c)	An employee is absent three (3) consecutive working days without notification acceptable to the Company, unless such absence is laterjustified by illness verified by Doctor's ca&fkais. Such verification when requested, shall be furnished without unreasonable delay.
d)	An employee refuses recall under Article 12, 12:03 below.
11
e)	An employee who has accumulated less than two (2) years service with the Company is laid cff for a period equivalents his/her length of service or an employee who has accumulated two (2) years or more service with the Company is laid c£f for a period of more than two (2) years.
f)	An employeeretires or is retired in accordance with the Company’s retirement policy.
10:09 An employee shall continueto accumulateseniorityunder the following conditions:
a)	During any absence caused by an illness or accident verified by a doctor. Except in cases com/ngunder the Worker’s Compensation Act, an employee will not accumulate additional seniority when absentmore than one year due to verified illnessor accident.
b)	During an absence panted by the Management in writing.
c)	During pregnancy and parental leave as provided in Article 10.10,
10:10 Pregnancy and Parental Leave
An employee’s entitlement to pregnancy leave and parental leave will be as follows, unless a leave of greater benefit is provided under the EmploymentStandards Act of Ontario:
a)	The employee will, if possible, give the Company at least two (2) weeks notice of intention before commencing pregnancy and/or parental leave.
b)	The Company will continue its benefit premiums and pension contributions during pregnancy and parental leave as required by the Employment StandardsAcf.
c)	If the employee does not specify the end date of the leave, it wdl be assumed that the maximum leave entitlement is being taken. The employee will give at least two (2) weeks notice of any change in the end data of the leave.
12
d)	A seniority employee who is pregnant is entitled to a combined pregnancy and parental leave of up to 35 weeks afterthe birth of the child, or up to one (1) year afterthe commencementof the pregnancy leave, whichever is the longer period of time.
e)	An employee who is a new father or an employee who is an adoptive parent is entitled to a parental leave of up to eighteen (18) weeks, beginning within 35 weeks afterthe birth or afterthe child first comes irtothe custody and care of a parent.
f)	An employee who is delivered of a stillborn child after the beginning of the 16th week before the expected date of birth is entitled to the leave provided in paragraph (d) above.
g)	An employee who gives birth prematurely and whose child is consequently hospitalized is entitled to discontinuous maternity leave. The employee may return to work before the end ofher maternity leave by replacing the most junior employee in the bargaining unit provided that she is qualified and willing to perform the job. The employee may then complete her maternity leave when the child's condition no longer requireshos-pital care.
h)	A seniority employee returning from pregnancy leave and/or parental leave will be reinstated to his/her former position, or an equivalent position if the position no longer exists, with no loss of seniority.
10:11	Leave cf Absence
A leave of absence up to one week may be granted for personal reasons upon application of the employee and approval by his/her Foreman. Requests in excess of one week must be forwarded along with recommendations, to Personnel for further Management approval. Such leaves
will not be unjustly withheld.
13
— Article 11 —
LAYOFF
11:01 When it is necessary to reduce the working fores the following procedures will apply providing it does not prevent the Company from iraintaininga working force of employees who ana qualified and willing to do the work that is available.
a)	Probationary and temporary employees w i 11 be laidoff first. (A probationary employee is defined as a new employee during his/her first sixty (60) days worked or an employee who has been promoted or transferred during his/her probationary period as set out in Article 20:01. A temporary employee is defined as one who is hired for a limited period and/or for a specific purpose.) Probationary employees on jobs to which they have been promoted or transferred will be laid off in accordance with their plant wide seniority after they have completed the required number of days worked on thejob as set out in Schedule A
b)	Employees withinthe affectedjob classification aslisted inArticle 20:06 (below)wi 11 be entitled to exercisetheir plant wide seniorityby:
1)	Returningto ajob classification in which they have the required number of worked days of in-plant experience as set out in Schedule A.
2)	Replacingthe mostjunior employee with lessplant wide seniority in Group 1.
3)	Bumpingasoutlinedin 11:01 b) 1) andb) 2) above, shall be exercised in sequential order in accordance with the rate of pay from the highest to the lowest, all rates inclusive except where this bumping procedure is not feasible for reasons of age or health, the latter to be verified in writing by a doctor.
4)	Relocating to another occupation if they so desire providing they have five (5) years or more plant wide seniority. It is understood that under this
right, the employees cannot select their jobs and placement will be at the discretion of the Company. Seniority employees in Groups 9 and 8 and inthejob classification of Stockkeeper, Shipper’s Receiver’s Assistant and Shearhand, all tractor trailer drivers, employeesin Maintenance Trades, and employees working under the Apprenticeship schedule referred to in Article 20, 20:06 below cannot be displaced under this clause.
11:02 a) If,inthe opinion of Management, it becomes impractical to continue layoff as defined in 11:01 above, the four (4) day week will go into effect. This clause is not intended to guarantee that a four (4) day week will always be maintained. If the four (4) day week extends for a period of one (1) month, the matter will be discussed with Shop Committee, and a further reduction in force may result.
b) As production schedules are increased, employees will be recalled from layoff according to seniority as provided in the Recall Procedure. If the work week has been increased to five (5) days prior to the recall of employees; however, the Company may, after discussion with the Union, make a limited addition to the work force if it is not practicable to meet production requirements without such recall.
11:30	1) The Company will notify an employee of his layoff
before the employee goes off duty on the working day prior to his last full working day.
2) When an employee returns from sick leave, the employee he is displacing will be notified of layoff at the start of his final shift of work.
3) Notice requirements WiHL not apply with respect to the following:
a)	Probationary employees
b)	Temporary layoffs under Clause 11:04
15
o) Layoffs resulting from matters beyond the Company’s control,' including but not limited to fire, lightning, flood,tempest, power failure, machine breakdown and work stoppage.
11:04	The Company shallhave the right to make temporary lay-
offs up to one (1) week by occupation regardless of the seniority position of the employee or employees affected. Temporary layoffs of more than one (1) weekmaybemade by mutual agreementwith ShopCommittee. The total time that an employee may be laid off under the provisions of this clause shall be limited to six (6) working days in any one (l)agreementyearexceptthat a legal Holiday, asenu-merated in Article 18, below will not be counted as a day under the provisions of this clause. After six (6) working days have been accumulatedin any one (1) agreementyear, he wi 11 be permitted to exercise his seniority rights as provided in Article 11, IayaEf.
—Article12 —
RECALL
12:01 Recall shallbe according to plant wide seniorityas follows:
To aj ob i n which the employee has the required number of working days of in-plant experience as set out in Schedule A, or to the employee’s formerjob if it is available, then consideration will be given to calling the employeeback to a job in which the employee will have the benefit of the normal training period, provided saidjob has been posted. In the caseof an employee who has relocated to another occupation in accordance with the provisions of Article 11:01 b)
4), suchemployeewill not be recalled to a Service Helpjob until thejunior employee due for recall is an employeewho is classified in the occupation into which the senior employee has relocated.
12:02	A11 employeeretalled to an occupation other than his own
shall retain his rights in accordance with 12:01 above.
12:03 a) Retail shall mean notification by telephoneto the last number listed withthe PersonnelfTFinp
16
b)	If an employee is unable to return to work on the day specifiedby the Company, his/her name will be passed over and another employee with lees seniority will be re-called instead. The senior employee who was unable to return to work on the day specifiedby the Company will be recalled the followingweek. If the employee is the mostjunior, orthe only one available, he/she must return as outlined in 12:03 c) below.
c)	In all cases the recalled employees must report for work on the day specifiedby the Company, provided notification by telephone is received at least (two) 2 regular working days in advance.
d)	Failingcontactby telephone, aregistered letter will be sent to the last address on record with the Personnel Department. The registered letter will be deemed to have been received (two) 2 regular working days after the date of registration at which t i e 12:03 b) and c) above, will apply.
e)	It is the employee’s responsibility to keep the Personnel Department informed of his current address and phone number.
-Article 13-TRANSFER
13:01 a) An employee desiring transfer to an equal or lower paying job shall make application to the Personnel Office prior to or atthe time of posting of aj ob vacancy.
b)	Provided he has the necessary qualifications, selection will be according to plant wide seniority.
c)	Successful application for transfer shall be limited to one (1) per year per employee. Only an employee with more than one (1)year’s seniority canapplyunderthis article. An employee must stay six(6) monthsonajob before applying for anotherjob change.
d)	ffoarrial consideration will be given for health reasons.
17
e)	Atransfer canbe delayedup to one (1) monthbythe Company for cause.
13:02 An employee permanently transferred at his own request as providedin 13:01 above, or by the Company, v\^l receive the rate for thejob to which he has been transferred.
13:03 An employeeontemporarytransfer up to one (1) monthor longer if mutually agreed to v\^l receive his own rate for the balance ofthat shift and thereafter will be paid the rate for thejob to which he has been transferred, if the transfer is to provide work in lieu of layoff. If the employee is temporarily transferred forthe convenience of the Company, then the employee will be paid the higher of the two (2) rates for the balance ofthat shift and thereafter.
13:04 a) When an employee is permanentlytransferred, he will carry his plant wide seniority with brim to his newjob classification.
b)	An employee on temporary transfer shall accumulate seniority in his own occupation for the period he is working on temporarytransfer.
— Article 14 —
PROMOTION
14:01 a) Notices of vacancies in occupational classifications own-ring on a given drift covered by this Agreement shallbe postedonthe Bulletin Boards fortwo (2) work-ingdaysbefare beingpermanently filled. Only employees with a lower rate than the rate of thejob posted may apply under this Article. Application to be made to the Personnel Office.
b)	Preference for promotion shall be given to the employee with the greater seniority,providing his ±dl-ity is approximately equal to that of the more junior employees who apply. If a dispute arises about a promotion, the past work records of the candidates shall also be considered. An employee must stay six (6) monthsonajob before applyingforanotherjobchange.
18
15:01
15:02
15:03
15:04
If within fifteen (15) working days an employee is unable to perform thejob because of a medical condition which is acceptable to the Company, he/she will be returned to their previousjob.
c)	Experience gained by an employee in a job classification other than his own cannot be claimed as ability under this Article.
d)	A promotion can be delayed up to one (1) month by the Company for cause.
e)	The Company will provide written notification to the successful applicants for promotion.
—Article15 —
HOURS OF WORK
The normal hours of work are forty (40) hours in one (1) week of five (5) days as follows:
Day Shift	7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
Afternoon Siift 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
Night Shift 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 am.
(Mondaythrough Friday)
Employees working on such shifts will be provided with a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period.
The Union agrees to co-operate with Management in altering the hours of work in other jobs where changes will result in greater productivity, higher operating efficiencies and improved quality. However, such changes will be made only by mutual agreement between Company and Union.
Truck drivers and tractor trailer drivers may be scheduled to work hours other than as set out above, provided their overtime payment and shift premium are maintained as set out below.
Current hours will be posted in the Traffic Department and will not be changed except by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
For pay purposes the week commences Sunday midnight. —19 —
—Article16 —
REST PERIOD
16:01 There shall be two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods, at a t i me to be ag need upon for each eight (8) hour shift of work in addition to the twenty (20) minute paid lunch period specified in Article 15:01, Hours oflfork.
— Article 17 —
WASH-UP PERIOD
17:01 TheCompanywillallowaperiodoffive(5) minutes forthe purpose of washing up immediately prior to each meal period and at the end of each shift for employees working in the fcOJowingjob classifications:
•	All Maintenance Classifications
•	Kettlehand
•	Backing Applicator
•	Latex Mixer
•	Drugman
•	Assistant Kettlehand
All other employees will work to the office stoppingtime of
nheir shift.
Article 18
LEGAL HOLIDAYS
18:01 New ’’Ear's Day
Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Two (2) floating days between Christmas Day and New 'Ear's Day at the Company's discretion (one (1) to be applied as ter-itarp Day, if declared).
20
The above holidays will be granted, with pay, to all employees other than probationary employees provided the followingconditions are met.
NOTE: For the purpose of this Article, "Absent" shall rrean sickness, leave of absence or layoff.
	Day Before	Day After	Pay
	Holiday	Holiday	
A.	Absent	Worked	Yes
B.	Absent	Absent	No
C.	Worked	Absent	Yes
The above will not apply to employees on layoff out of seniority under 11:04 above who will be paid.
18:02 In the event that a holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company shall observe such holiday on either the Friday preceding or the Monday following.
18:03 Probationary employeeswho stay past the sixty (60) days worked wfll be paid only for the holidays which occurred afterthe first fifty (50) days worked of their employment, on the same conditions as above.
— Article 19 —
VACATION WITH PAY
19:01 The Company agrees to provide vacation per schedule below. Earnings and years of service will be calculatedon the twelve (12) month period ending June 30th.
a)	Two(2) weeks vacation and fourper cent (4%)of fcteZ earnings far service up to five (5)years.
b)	Three (3) weeks vacation and sixper cent (6%)c*f earnings for service over five (5) years.
c)	Four (4) weeks vacation and eight per cent (8%) of earnings for service over fourteen (14) years.
d)	Five (5) weeks vacation and ten per cent (10%) of earnings for service overtwenty-five (25) years.
21
e)	Six (6) weeks vacation and twelve per cent (12%) of earnings for service overthirty (30)years.
f)	Employees entitled to thres(3), four(4), five(5) orsix (6) weeks vacation will observe them as follows. Two (2) weeks vacation v\^l be observed during the period the plant is shutdown for vacation. The shutdown period will be the last two weeks in July prior to the Civic Holiday if mutually agreed. The third, fourth, fifth or sixth week w i 11 be granted at a t i e mutually agreed upon by the employee concerned and the Company, but in any ease, must be taken prior to June 30thofthe followingyear. Employees who have earned less than their vacation pay entitlement due to a layoff will be allowed to waive a pro-rated portion of their vacation time.
g)	Maintenance employees hired after August 2,1986 are required to work during the plant shutdown and their vacation will be re-scheduled accordingly. If the above noted maintenanceemployeesare not required to work plant shutdown,they shall be notified afcleastonemonth (1) in advance.
h)	lost time while receivingWorkmen’ sCompensation or Sick Benefit under Group Insurance shall, for the purpose of calculating holiday pay, be taken as if the employee has been paid his full wage rate cr average earnings during such absence. However, Vacation Pay w/ll not be paid to an employee who has been absent from work for more than one (1)year on Workmen’s Compensation.
i)	TbtaLvacationpay entitlementwill be givenatthe tie oftheplant shutdownforthe annual vacationperiod to any employee upon request in writing prior to June 30.
— Article 20 —
WAGES
20:01 Employees hired, promoted, or transferred will be paid fifteen 0-6) cents below the Wage Rate and increased to
— 22 —
the appropriate Vforp Rate on completion of their probationary period, sixty (60) days worked unless otherwise recommended by the Foreman.
20:02 The Company will advise the Union of operations not covered or new operations that come irto use and will set wage rates in line with Labour Groups listed below. Should disagreement result concerning said rates, it will be handled through the Grievance Procedure.
20:03 If during the lifetime of this Agreement any employee feels that hisjob has changed sufficiently to warrant Tgria.gsifi-cation, this matter shall be handled through the normal Grievance Procedure.
20:04	When an employee is designated by the Company to train a
new employee or to instruct an incumbent, he/she will be paid a premium of ten (10) cents an hour.
Lead Hands
20:05	Employeesselectedby the Company to work as Lead Hands
will be paid twenty-five (25) cents per hour more than the job rate for their own classification.
When Lead Hands are trained to the extent that they are able to perform all the jobs in their charge, they shall be paid twenty-five (25)centsper hour more than the highest paid employee under their direction.
Lead Hands appointed in the Maintenance Department shall be paid twenty-five (25) cents per hours above their
own classification.
It is understood that the Company shall have the right to make the selection based on ability.
If none of the applicants for a Lead Hand position are accepted, then the Company may make the appointment.
Lead Hands will not be required to discipline employees in their charge.
23
20:06 Job Classification by Labour Group
EFFECTIVE DATES AUG. 2/93 AUG. 2/94
Labour Group Service Help
Labour Group 2 Wrapper
Labour Groups Trmmsr Operator Creeler/Mender KetdehandAss’T.
Labour Group 4 Driver Qrrraftnr Forklift Operator Backing Range Relief
Labour Group 5	11.91	12.11
Finishing
Warehouseperson
Printer’s Assistant
Cutting Floor Operator
Kettle Hand
Material Handler
MaintenanceLabour
Writer
Asst. Kuster Operator/Drugman J-Box Operator Roll-up Insp./Comp. Op.
Tufter Operator
$11.67	$11.87
11.70	11.90
11.78	11.98
11.84	12.04
24
AUG. 2/93
Labour Group 8	$12.02
Diyer Operator Finished Goods Inspector Latex Mixer
CuringOven-Asst. Operator
Carpet Cutter Asst
Mat Handler (Haz. Chem)
Labour Group 7	12.14
Stockkeeper
Shipper’s/Receiver’s Asst.
CarpetCutter
F. G. IJShear Relief/Comp. Op.
Labour Group 8	12.22
Backing Applicator Shearhand Kuster Operator
Labour Group9	12..40
CuringOven Operator Printer Operator Tractor Trailer Driver
Labour Group 10	12.92
Drugman
MAINTENANCE TRADES Tradesman (General)IV	13.36
Tradesman (Qualified) III	13.83
•	General Carpenter
•	Construction Millwright
•	Industrial Millwright
•	Plant Electrician
•	Industrial Nfecbanic
— 25 —
AUG. 2/94 $12.22
12.34
12.42
12.60
13.12
13.56
14.03
AUG. 2/93
AUG. 2/94
Tradesman (Qualified) II	$15.46
•	Electrician
•	Steamfitter
•	Industrial Machinist
•	Gcmstructi.cn \ lillwi'iyfit
•	Industrial Mechanic
Tradesman (Qualified) I 15.88
•	Electrician
•	Motor Vehicle Mechanic
•	( (instruction \ lillwi'iyfit
•	Industrial Machinist
•	Industrial Mechanic
•	Steamfitter
26
$15.66
16.08
APPRENTICES SCHEDULES FOR THOSE ENROLED IN GOVERNMENT CERTIFIED PROGRAMS
HOURS 5 z 1800 Hours
0 to 900 901 to 1800 1801 to 2700 2701 to 3600 3601 to 4500 4501 to 5400 5401 to 6300 6301 to 7200 7201 to 8100 8101 to 9000 After Trades • Certification
4 x 2000 Hours
Oto 900 901 to 1800 1801 to 2700 2701 to 3600 3601 to 4500 4501 to 5400 5401 to 6300 6301 to 7200 7201 to 8100 After Trades Certification
AUG. 2/93	AUG. 2/94
$11.99
12.25 12,47 12,68 12,89
13.04
13.25 13.46 13.68 13.83
14.04
$11,99
12.20
12.35
12.52
12.68
12.83
12.99
13.15
13.31
14.04
$12.19
12.45 12.67 12.88 13.09
13.24
13.45 13,66 13.88 14,03
14.24
$12.19
12.40
12.55
12.72
12.88
13,03
13,19
13.35
13.51
14.24
NOTE: Apprentices - Our apprenticeship program will be governed by the rules and regulations of the Apprenticeship and Tradesman' sQualification Act.
27
21:01
21:02
21:03
— Article 21 —
OVERTIME PAY
Overtimewill be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-
1/2) the wage rate or average earnings for:
i)	All time worked in excess of the normal daily hours applicable as provided in Article 15 above except when an employee voluntarily works beyond such normal hours ofworkto complete an eight (8) hour shift.
ii)	All time worked on Saturday unless special arrange-menta havebeen made or unless such time is part of the shift commencing on Friday.
iii)	All time worked (up to eight (8) hours) on thefirstshift following a shift change within the same work week, (work weekbeing definedas forty (40) hours from Mon-daythrough Friday). It isunderstoodthat no employee will be required to change a shift of work within one (1) workweek
Overtime wil be paid at the rate of double (2 times) the
wage rata or average earnings for:
i)	All times worked on Sunday or on the Legal Holidays enumerated in Article 18 aboveunless such time is part of a shift commencing on the day before or ending on the day following a Legal Holiday or is part of a shift commencing on a Sunday and ending on a Monday. This pay is in addition to the holiday pay provided under Article 18, Section 18:01 above.
ii)	All time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours on any one(l) continuousshift of work.
a)	Overtimeshall be govemedby thefollowingprocedure:
1.	An employeein thejob classification who normally performs the work on the shift required to work.
2.	An employeewho normally performsthe work on the shift in the same classification by seniority.
28
3.	An employee in the same classification within the department by seniority. (Wet Processing; Inspection and Finishing; Material Handling; and Maintenance; Cut Table).
4.	After exhausting the above steps, the Company will endeavour to share overtime amongst all employees able to perform the overtime work.
b) The Union agrees to co-operate with Management in curbing any abuses which may arise from the above overtime arrangements.
— Article 22 —
SHIFT PREMIUM
22:01 A premium of THIRTY (30 )cents per hour shall be paid to employees working onthe afternoon shift(3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.) and a premium of THIRTY (30) cents per hour shall be paid to employeesworking onthe night shift (11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.). An afternoon shift is one starting at or after 12:00 noon, a night shift is one starting at or after 6:00 p.m.
— Article 23 —
REPORTPAY
23:01 An employeewho reports for work at the commencement of a regular shift shall be entitled to a minimum of four (4) hours’ pay at his or her wage rate or average earnings unless previously notified by the Company to the contrary, provided that if requested by the Company the employee shall perform such available work as the Company may assign. This does not apply in the case of steam failure, fire, flood,or other conditions beyond the Company’scontrol. It should be noted that the term “Shift” means one (1) full working period, as provided in Article 15 above.
23:02 An employeeis expected to giveprior notice when reporting for work followingan illness. However, in the event such absences exceed one (1) working day, he shall not qualify
29
for work or pay pursuant to Article 23 unless he has so infonredthe PersonnelDepartmentby no later than 12:00 Noon two (2) working days priorto the day that he/she will be returning to work.
23:03 Employees who receive medical clearance on a Saturday, Sunday or Holiday wi 11 be expected to make a reasonable effort to contact their immediate supervisor, in any case they are required to at least notify the Plant Security, leaving their name, department and supervisor’s name.
— Article 24 —
EMERGENCY CALL PAY
24:01 If an emergency arises and an employee is called to work outside his normal working hours, he shall be paid the greater of:
a)	Time worked at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2). OR
b)	Time worked on Sunday and Legal Holidays at the rate of double time.
OR
c)	Four (4) hours’ pays at straight time.
— Article 25 -EMPLOYEES INJURED
25:01 Employees who are injured while at work and have to go home because of suchinjuries shall be paid their wage rate or average earnings for the balance c£ the shift on which the injury occurred,
— Article 26 —
BEREAVEMENT
26:01 Should a bereavement occur in an employee’s immediate family (Spouse, children, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparents or grandchildren) he/she shall be granted a leave of absence of three (3) days upon request or, in the case of brother-in-law or sister-in-law, one (1) day upon request, and shall be reimbursed at his/her wage rate or average earnings for time so lost. Employees shall not be paid pursuant to this article while on vacation or leave of absence.
— Article 27 —
JURY DUTY
27:01 The Company shall pay to any employee who may be re-quiredto serve asa juror the difference, if any, between the amount paid to him for hisj ury service and the amount he would otherwise have earned for his scheduled hours dur-ingthe same period of time, on condition that proof of such service and fees received is provided by the employee.
— Article 28 —
GROUP INSURANCE PLAN
28:01 The cost ofthe Group Insurance ELaiwill be sharedonthe
following basis:
a)	The Company will pay 100% of the cost of hospital, surgical and medical benefits through O.H.I.P. as well asthe extended health carebenefits currently provided through The Insurance Carrier.
b)	Effective Aug. 2, 1985, the Company will pay 80% of the cost of Life Insurance and Weekly Indemnity with the employeespayingthe remaining 20%.
c)	The Company will pay 50% of the cost of the Dental Care Plan.
31
d)	Any change in the cost of the Group Insurance Plan during the life of this Agreement will be shared on the same basis.
Summary of Benefits:
28:02 O.H.LP.
Provides hospital, surgical and medical benefits. Standard ward accommodations,
28:03 Semi-Private Hospital (Optional)
Semi-private hospital accommodation is available on a voluntary contribution basis to employees and their -finrilva through ManufacturersLife.
28.04 Extended Health Card
The extended health care benefit currentlyprovided through The Insurance Carrier covers or pays all eligibleexpenses of an employee and his/her dependents under this plan during any twelve (12) consecutive month after deducting the first ten (10) dollars per individual or deducting the first twenty (20)dollarsper family. The services available to the employee under the plan include the following (subject to the master contract between the employer and the carrier).
Benefits:
a)	Drug3, seams,injectibles and insulin purchased on the prescription of a medical doctor, except for vitamins and vitamin preparations (unless injected) and patent orpropietory medicines.
b)	Private duty nursing by a Registered Nurse who is registered in any of the provinces of Canada (not a relative); either in the hospital or home, providingit is ordered by the attending physician.
c)	Services of aregisteredor a licensed physio-therapist. Diagnostic services when not covered by an government agency.
d)	Difference in cost between semi-private accommodation and a private room (but not a suite) in a public general hospital.
— 32 —
e)	Dental care as a result of an accident caused by external, violent and accidental means occurring after the effectivedate of the contract, when not covered by any government agency.
f)	Charges up to $10 per day for care in a licensedprivate hospital, to a maximum of 120 days.
g)	Purchase or rental or special remedial appliances, artificial limbs, etc. when not covered by any government agency.
h)	Specialized treatments, such as radium and radioisotopes.
i)	Ambulance services when not covered by any government agency.
j)	Paymentto registered clinicalpsychologistsup to $35 forthe first visit and $20 per hour forsubsequenttreat-ments to a maximum of $200 during a benefit year in all.
k)	Payment to registered masseurs up to $7 per treatment for not more than twelve (12) treatments per benefit year, but onlywhen treatment is certified necessary by a medical Doctor.
l)	Payment to qualified speech therapists up to $200 per benefityear, but only when treatment is certified necessary by a medical Doctor.
ro) Payment for medical fees where legal when such fees are over the applicable provincial schedule of fees and are not greater than what would be paid in the subscriber's home province.
n) For all out of province/out of country coverage please refer to your InsuranceBenefitbooklet.
Exclusions:
1. Services normally paid through any provincial hospital plan, any provincialmedical plan, Workmen’s Compensation Board, other government agencies or any other source.
33
2.	Treatment for mental illness, tuberculosis or chronic diseases in hospitals other than public g 1 hospitals.
NOTE A chronicpatient unit attached to a public general hospital is classified as a separate hospital ' Extended Health Care benefits do not apply.
3.	Dental careunlessnecessitatedthroughaccidentalm-jury occurring after the effective date of the contract.
4.	Rest cures, travel for health reason or in: examination.
28:05 Weekly Indemnity
Sixty percent (60%) of weekly earnings to a limit of th current Unemploymentlnsurance Commissionm benefit for a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks commencing on the first day for accident or hospitalization and th fourth (4th) day for illness.
28:06 life Insurance
All eligibleemployees- $30,000.
28:07 Accidental Death and Dismemberment
Tractor Trailer Driver and Maintenance Trades Only -$30,000.
28:08 Paid-upLife Insurance at Retirement	_
Employees with five (5) or more years service at norn retirement receive a paid-up Life Insurance Policy for:
•	$2,000.00 for serviceof five (5) to fifteen (15) years
•	$2,500.00 for service over fifteen (15) years.
28:09 “Coverages and benefits are those currently provided b the company under this collective agreement, The Company reservesthe right to change the carrier forthe G Insurance Plan, including Life Insurance, Extended” Care, Weekly Indemnity and Dental Care Plan, provided il the Companychangesthe insurance carrier, there shall! no less of benefits to the employees.”
,8:10 Dental Care Plan
The Dental Care Plan is provided through the Insurance Carrier. The Annual Calendar Year maximum will be in accordance with the 1991 Ontario Dental Association Fee Schedule. Payment is subjectto the Calendar Year maximum of $1250 per insured. See the Carriers Booklet for complete details of the plan.
Basic Services - Level 1
Oral examinations, two (2)per calendar year;
•	BitewingX-rays, two (2) per calendaryear; Prophylaxis and fluoride treatments, two (2) per calendar year;
•	Oral hygiene instructions; initial plus one (1) recall; Light scalingand polishing, two (2) per calendaryear; Rill mouth X-rays, one (l)per two (2) calendaryear; Fillings(amalgam, silicate, acrylic,and composite)and retentive pins;
•	Minor surgical procedures, extractions, and post surgical care;
•	General anaesthesia, laboratory and diagnostic procedures;
•	Space maintained;
• Stainless steel crowns;
•	Dental repairs, relines and rebases;
•	Denture adjustments,
•	In-office laboratory services and diagnostic casts,
•	Completedentures once every five (5) years;
•	Partial dentures once every five (5) years.
Supplementary Basic Services - Level II
•	Major surgical procedures;
•	Endodontic services which include root canals and therapy, periapical service, bleachings;
•	Periodontal.services,treatment for diseases ofthegum and other supporting tissue of the teeth excluding appliances and splinting.
35
29:01
30:01
30:02
30:03
— Article 29 —
EMPLOYEES PENSION PLAN
The Employees' Pension Plan as outlined, among ' ’ things, in the booklet titled “Harding Employees' Pen ' and Profit Sharing ELsns" is 'hereby made a part of t’ Agreements Schedule"!?”.
—Article30 —
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The Company shall make all reasonable provision for th safety andhealth of employees.
The Company and the Union shall co-operate in m “ pertaining to the health and safetyof employees.
Both parties further agree to abide by the Occupr1-Health and Safety Act, 1978 Statutes of Ontario, 197,. Chapter83.
A Safety Committee, consistingof an equal number of r resentatives of the Company and of the Union set up i accordance with Section8 of the Act shall hold a meeting least once a month.
The Company will pay $60.00 towards the cost of one (i pair of safety shoes for each employee. The Company ’ also pay towards the cost of one (1) additionalpair of ' ' shoes per contract year when proven required for * _ ~' working in the maintenancetrades and in thejob cl " cations of latex mixer and wet processing, backing tor. and cut floor operator.
The company will pay $50,00 every two (2) years toi pair of safety glasses provided lenses and frames areCU. approved.
36
— Article 31 —
BULLETIN BOARDS
31:01 The Union shall have the right to use the Bulletin Boards in the plant for the purpose of pasting notices, etc., provided that all such notices shall first have been approved by the Company.
— Article 32 —
COMPANY REGULATIONS
32:01 It is understoodand agreed that the employeeswill respect and abide by the Company’s rules, regulations and practices, which may be in force from time to time.
— Article 33 —
33:01 This Agreement shall come into effect on the second (2nd) day of August 1993 and shallremain in force uritllTfiefirst (lst)day of August, 1995. It shall be automatically renewed ^ froirryear'to year thereafter unless request is made in writ-ingby either party for modificationorcancellationbetween the thirtieth (30th)andtheninetieth (90th) day priortothe date of termination.
For the Company
Keith Robinson Jim Nickling
For the Union
Dan Webster Jr, Bill Ferguson Dave Eley Brian Boyd Bill Irwin Laurell Ritchie
37
SCHEDULEA
Number of worked days required on job promotion or transfer before an employ ee' s plant wide sarinrity w i 11 be applied during l^cff from or recall to the job:
10 Days
20 Days
40 Days
Finishing Hands Warehouseman
Roll-up Inspector - Backing Range Roll-uplnspector- Kuster/Mitter
Sevrln
Kettle Hand Assistant
J. Box Operator- Kuster/Mitter/Zimmer
<J. Box Operator- Backing Range
TriinmerOperator
Screen Assembler
Wrapper
Creeler Mender
Forklift Operator Backing Range Relief Cutting Floor Operator KettleHand Material Handler Maintenance Labour Writer
Finished Goods Inspector LatexMixer Dryer Operator Carpet Cutter Assistant Tufter Operator
Stockkeeper Driver Operator Kuster PrinterDrugman
Kuster Operator
Assistant Kuster Operator-Drugman Shearhand
Shipper- Receiver Assistant Backing Applicator Carpet Cutter
38
60 Days	• Curing Oven Operator
•	Curing Oven Operator Assistant
•	Printer Operator
•	Printer’s Assistant
•	Tractor Trailer Driver
•	Driver Operator
•	Second Hand
PART II
EMPLOYEES GUIDE
It is necessary for the members of any organization to observe certain regulations in order to make the co-operative effort a success. Our rules at Harding Carpets are not designed to restrict the individual, but to protect you by assuring safe working conditions and equal treatment. For this reason, we have provided the following brief outline:
Pay
Employees are paid each Thursday by cheque. Certain deductions, such as income tax and unemployment insurance, are required by law. Deductions under the Retirement Income Plan and Union dues are also compulsory. Other deductions may be made on the authorization of the employee which would include Group Insurance,
purchase of savings bonds and charitable donations.
Time Clock Information
231 employees must punch their time cards when commencing and finishing work.
Smoking Privileges
Smokingis not allowedin the plant, except during specified periods and then only in areas designated forthis purpose by Management. It is essential for the safety and security of ail concerned that this rule be strictly adhered to.
39
Plant Rules
The purpose of these rules and regulations is not to restrict the rights of anyone but rather to define and protect the rights of all whileensuring co-operation. Committingany of the followingviola-tionswi I Ibesufficient groundsfor disciplinary action rangingfrom reprimand to immediatedischarge, depending upon the seriousness of the offence in thejudgementof Management.
Employee's Guide:
1.	Falsificationofpersonnelorother records.
2.	EhUxneto ring your own time G2zd,ringinga card other than your own, or permitting your card to be rung by another.
3.	Absencefromworkortardyarrivalafcplaceofwork. Itiseach employee’s responsibility to notify his foreman of any absence, telling him the probable length of absence and the reason for absence.
4.	Ieayingworkassignmentorplantduringworkinghaurswith-out permission or failure to return to work after lunch period without permission,
6.	Distractingthe attention of others, or otherwise causing con-fusionby unnecessary demonstrationof any kind onCompany premises.
6.	Creating or contributing to disorderly or unsanitary conditions.
7.	PossessionofweaponsonCompanypremises,
8.	Failure or refusal to follow the instructions of supervision or to do your job assignment. (Doyour work assignment and follow instructions; any complaint may be taken up later through jiour foreman)
9.	Operation of machines, tools, or equipment, to which you have notbeenspecifically assigned.
10.	Making waste unnecessarily; faulty or careless workmanship.
11.	Horseplay,scuffling, running orthrowingthings.
12.	Wastingtimeorloiteringin toilets or on any Company property during working hours.
— 40 —
13.	Smoking, except in specifically designated areas and during specified periods.
A- Assaulting, threatening, intimidating, coercingor interfering with employeesor supervision.
15.	Solicitingorcollectingcontributionsfor any purpose whatsoever on Company premises, without the specific approval of Management.
16.	Distributing literature, written or printed matter of any description on Company premises, without the specific approval of Management.
17.	Posting or removal of notices, signs or writing in any form on
Bulletin Boards or Company property without the specific
approval of Management.
18.	Misuse or unauthorized removal of employee lists,blue prints, Company records or confidential information of any nature.
19.	Careless use, misuse or abuse of any tools, equipment, materials, products, or other property, owned by other employeesor being the Company’sor in the Company’s custody.
20.	Restricting output.
21.	The making or publishing of false, vicious, or malicious statements concerningany employee,or member of supervision,the Company or ita products.
22.	Abusive language to other employeesor supervision.
23.	Fighting.
24.	Theft or misappropriation of property of employees,or of the Company, or in the Company’s custody.
25.	Possession or consumingof alcoholicbeverages,narcotic drugs, inhaling of any substance to create an hallucinary effect, on Company property or while onjob assignment. Reporting to work under the influence of alcohol or narcotic drugs, when suffering side effects from alcoholic or narcotic drugs.
26.	Sabotage or deliberate destruction of any property belonging to the Company, its employees, or in the Company’scustody.
27.	Disregard of safety rules or common safety practices,
■— 41 —
28.	Immoral conduct or indecency.
29.	Throwingrefuse or objects on the floors or out the windows.
30.	Stoppingwork or making preparations to leave work (such washing up or changing clothes) before lunch period or authorized quitting time.
31.	Repeated violations of plant or safety rules.
Safety Rules
Harding Carpets Limited endeavoursto make working conditions in the plant as safe as possible. The purpose of the entire Safety Ecogranisto protect you from injury. The following are general safety rules applicable to all employees. Specific safety instruction for certainjobs wi 11 be issued by Supervision where necessary.
1.	Nc machinery should be operated without authority or without a thorough knowledge ofthe method of operation.
2.	Machineiy should never be set in motion without definitely ascertainingthat no one is in a position to be injured,
3.	Guards and other safety devices are provided for ycur protection. They must not be removed except by authorization of foreman, and then replaced immediately after operation for which authority was given to remove guard or fixture.
4.	R^artdefectiveguaids,equipment, ornadamatynotoperat-ing correctly to your foreman.
6. Stopyour machine before you leave it; when oiling, cleaning, or adjusting switch cffthe motor, see that the belt is on the loose pulley, and if possible lock your machine, to prevent accidentalstart/ng.
6.	Never distractthe attention of other operators, You may cause them injury.
7.	Where dango- exists from dust, flyingchips, splinters, grinding, etc., shatter-proofgoggles must be worn.
8.	It is laid down that Safety Hair nets or cap must be worn by
employees working on or near machines, revolving6 7 8 *!13^3) etc.
42
They MUST be used. This is a Provincial regulation and the Employer and Employee are equally responsible for a fine for non-observance.
9.	Keep space around your machine, paasageways, etc., clear of surplus materials, to prevent tripping into machinery.
J). Notify your foreman if the floor around your machine is oily, slippery, broken or in bad condition, so that this may be rectified.
11.	Do not wear rings, loose fitting clothing or loose ties near machinery or other moving shafts, etc., forthese increase the chance of accident.
12.	Anticipate rough and jagged edges on all material when lifting.
13.	Carefully wash hands free from grease or oil at the end of a shift, and before eating food, to avoid certain types of poisoning. Methylated spirits and similar degreasing agents cause a skin irritation and should not be used.
14.	Electrical equipment should never be interfered with. Report to foreman who will send for electrician to effect any repairs, adjustments or overhauls.
15.	To avoid strains and ruptures, stand firmly on both feet, as close to the work as possible, slightly bendingthe knees. This posture permits the even distribution ofthenecessaryeffort.
16.	If you are injured, no matter how slightly, report to your foreman for treatment. It should be borne in mind that a slight scratch or cut, if neglected, may lead to a loss of a limb or even cause death. Aproper record of all injuries andthe treatment given must be kept by the Plant Nurse.
17.	Do not wear rubber soled shoes, especially in wet or oily places. Wear safety shoes to prevent injury to feet.
18.	See that ladders have proper safety feet or hooks, or are tied to prevent slipping. Report to your foreman any that are unprotected,broken or unsafe.
19.	Larking and horseplay are a common cause of injuries. Discourage anyone attempting it.
If any of the above rules are not clear to you—ask your foreman.
— 43 —
Fire Protection
1.	Learn the specific fire hazards involved in your work.
2.	Learn the location of the nearest extinguisher and t*::; : useofsuch equipment.
3.	Submit any questions regarding fire precaution to ; supervision.