CROSSLEY CARPET MILLS LIMITED
(hereinafter called the "Company")
and
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE,
AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW) LOCAL 4612
(hereinafter called the "Union")
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Description	Article	Page
PREAMBLE
Company - Union Relationship	1.01	7
Labour/Management Meetings	1.02	7
PURPOSE
Purpose Defined
2,01	7
DEFINITIONS
He/She
Employee(s)
Skilled Trades Job Classification
3.01	a
3.02	a
3.03	8
RECOGNITION
Members of Unit and
Staff Exclusions	4.01	9
Other Members	4,02	9
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Management Rights Defined	5,01	9
Continued Operation	5,02	11
UNION MEMBERSHIP
Union Membership Defined Union Activity Union Check-off Union Dues Recorded Union Meetings Union Member Orientation Union Agent Visits Union Bulletin Boards
6.01	12
6.02	12
6.03	12
6.04	12
6.05	13
6.06	13
6.07	13
6.08	14
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
Grievance Committee Member	7.01	14
Member LeavesWork Station	7.02	15
Notice of Discipline	7.03	16
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Purpose	8.01
Formal Presentation	8.02
Arbitration Notification	8,03
Discharge and Suspension Grievances8.04	
Management Grievances	8.05
Policy Grievances	8,06
Time Limits	8.07
Grievances Defined	8.08
Grievance Resolution Binding	8.09
17
17
19
19
19
20 20 21 21
ARBITRATION Appointment Limitations Decision Binding Expenses
9.01	21
9.02	21
9.03	22
9.04	22
SENIORITY
Seniority Date Seniority Zone Probation Period Loss of Seniority Employee Address Physician's Certificate Short Layoffs
Extended Layoffs & Bumping Recall Procedure
Advance Applications for Postings Promotion and Job Posting
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04
10.05
10.06
10.07
10.08
10.09
10.10 10.11
22
23
23
24
25
25
26 27
31
32 32
Promotion Restrictions Seniority Retention Staff Vacancies Transfer Out of Unit Temporary Transfers Training Programs Cross Training Permanent Shift Transfers Temporary Employees
LEAVE OF ABSENCE Request for Leave Leave for Union Business
Bereavement Leave
Leave of Absence Jury Duty Sick Leave
10.12	34
10.13	34
10.14	35
10.15	35
10.16	36
10.17	37
10.18	37
10.19	38
10.20	38
11.01	39
11.02	39
11.03	40
11.04	41
11.05	41
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES, WORKLOADS ANDCLASSIFICATIONS
Technological/Organizational
Change	12.01	42
Competitive Position Workloads	12.02	43
Job Classifications	12.03	44
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND PREMIUMS		
Hours of Work	13.01	45
Breaks	13.02	46
Shift Premiums	13.03	46
Overtime Rates	13.04	47
Overtime Rates for Prime Time	13.05	47
Overtime and Rescheduled Shifts	13.06	48
Overtime Distribution	13.07	48
Overtime Breaks	13.08	52
Overtime Lunch Allowance	13.09	52
Call-In	13.10
Reporting In	13.11
HOLI DAYS
Designated Plant Holidays	14.01
Holiday Pay	14.02
Qualifying for Holiday Pay	14.03
Work on a Holiday	14.04
Holiday on Vacation/Day of Rest 14,05
VACATIONS Vacation Days Vacation Pay Rates Vacation Pay Base Vacation Scheduling Vacation Work Option
15.01
15.02
15.03
15.04
15.05
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Accident Prevention	16.01
Injury on Duty	16.02
Safety Committees	16.03
Right to Refuse Unsafe Work	16.04
Union Safety Education	16.05
Safety Shoes	16.06
Environmental Measurements	16.07
53
54
54
55 55
55
56
56
57
57
58
59
59
59
60 60 62 62 63
ALLOCATION OF WORK Contracting Out Assignment of Work
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS No Work Stoppage Strike Discipline
17.01	63
17.02	64
18.01	64
18.02	64
WAGES
Hourly Wage Rates	19.01
Wage Progression	19.02
Training Premium	19.03
Workers' Compensation/Weekly Indemnity	19.04
Stationary Engineers	19.05
Shift Leaders	19.06
65
65
67
67
68 68
GENERAL
Recreation Committee	20.01	69
Pension/Life Insurance and
Weekly Indemnity	20.02	69
Tool Allowance	20.03	69
DURATION
Expiration Date	21.01	70
APPENDIX "A WAGE SCHEDULE	72
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA 1	78
LOA 2	79
ARTICLE 1 - PREAMBLE
1.01	COMPANY-UNION RELATIONSHIP
Parties to this Agreement recognize the common dependence of the Company and its employees upon the welfare of the business, and the importance of maintaining the existing relationship of harmony and mutual respect between them.
1.02	LABOUR/MANAGEMENT MEETINGS
To promote the interest of the Company and to discuss matters of mutual interest which are not proper subjects to be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure, it is agreed to hold Labour/Management Meetings once monthly. The committee shall consist of three (3) representatives of the Union, the make-up of which will be the President, Local Chairperson and one other member and three (3) Management representatives selected by Management. Additional representatives may attend a Labour/Management Meeting by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 2- PURPOSE
2.01	PURPOSE DEFINED
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide for orderly collective bargaining relations betweenthe Company and its employees covered by this Agreement, through the Union, to secure prompt disposition of grievances which may arise from time to time between the Company and the Union, to define wages and working conditions for
7
the said employees, to eliminate interruption of work during the life of this Agreement and to promote efficient operation of the Company's business, all as set forth in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - DEFINITIONS
3.01	He/She
For the purposes of understanding and clarity, where the masculine pronoun "he" is used in this Agreement, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun "she". This shall be the case for the masculine form Tradesman in regards to the Skilled Trades.
3.02	EMPLOYEE(S)
"Employee" or "Employees" as used in this Agreement shall mean those persons described in the collective bargaining unit set forth in Clause 4.01.
3.03	SKILLED TRADES JOB CLASSIFICATION
The term "skilled trades job classification" as used in this Agreement shall mean those job classifications of Steam/Pipefitter, Carpenter, Machinist, Industrial Mechanic, Electrician, dbd Stationary Engineer II, as set out in the Collective Agreement under Appendix "A' Maintenance Department. Also included will be future job classifications listed under Appendix "A Maintenance Department which would require a journeyman status certified and registered with the Nova Scotia Department of Labour. Openings in the Skilled Trades Classification will be posted as stated in Article 10.11 (c).
8
ARTICLE 4- RECOGNITION
4.01	MEMBERS OF UNIT AND STAFF EXCLUSIONS
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for all its employees employed at its plant at 435 Willow Street in Truro, Nova Scotia, save and except first line supervisors, supervision above rank of first line supervisor, office, technical (unless listed as a job classification in Appendix A), clerical and sales staff, security personnel and/or any other employees excluded by Paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (2) of Section 1 of the Trade Union Act.
4.02	OTHER MEMBERS
Any part-time or temporary employees hired by the Company for a period of more than five (5)working days, save those excluded in 4.01, shall be part of the bargaining unit unless excluded by mutual consent of the Company and the Union. However, all provisions of this Agreement shall be prorated in a ratio of hours scheduled compared to a regular 8-hour shift where applicable.
ARTICLE 5 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5.01	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS DEFINED
The parties to this Agreement recognize and acknowledge that the management and control of the plant operations and all other Company operations and the direction of the working force are fixed exclusively in the Company and, without restricting the generality of or limiting, impairing or curtailing the foregoing, the Union
9
acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the
Company except as limited by the express provisions of
this Agreement to:
(a)	independently make and execute all plans and decisions deemed necessary, in its judgement, to the welfare, advancement, and best interests of the Company;
(b)	maintain order and efficiency;
(c)	employ, lay off,	re-employ,	evaluate
performance, promote, demote, classify, transfer, suspend and retire employees, and to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause;
(d)	make, enforce and alter, from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by the employees;
(e)	extend, limit, curtail or cease operations or any part thereof, or to remove any or all operations to another location as circumstances may require, or to close or liquidate any or all operations;
(f)	determine- the nature and kind of business conducted by the Company, financial policies, accounting methods and procedures, the products to be manufactured, the quality standards of products, the price to be charged for each product, distribution and sales policies, the engineering and design of products and
10
materials to be used in manufacture, the kinds and locations of plants and their layout, the equipment to be used, the location of new equipment and relocation of old equipment, the control of materials and parts, the methods and techniques of work, the content cf jobs, the schedules of production, the size and character of inventories, the number of employees to be employed, those persons to be hired, qualifications to be required of new employees, and methods by which such qualifications are determined, the selection and assignment of staff and supervisory personnel, compensation for services paid to employees not within the unit for which the Union acts as the exclusive bargaining agent, appropriation and expenditures of funds in whatever amount and for whatever purpose, and to determine and exercise all other functions and prerogatives, these remaining solely with the Company.
5,02	CONTINUED OPERATION
In case the Company should determine that any operation be closed, removed or liquidated, the union agrees that operations shall continue without any slowing down or interruption until all stock in process has been completed and other assignments associated with this action have also been completed.
11
ARTICLE 6 - UNION MEMBERSHIP
6.01	UNION MEMBERSHIP DEFINED
The parties hereto mutually agree that all employees hired after the date of execution of this Agreement must, within one month of employment, become members of the Union for as long as he is employed with the Company.
6.02	UNION ACTIVITY
The Company and the Union agree that there will be no intimidation, discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practice by either of them or by any of their representatives or members because of an employee's membership or non-membership in the Union or because of his activity or lack of activity in the Union.
6.03	UNION CHECK-OFF
All new employees in the bargaining unit shall be required, as a condition of employment, to authorize the Company to begin, after their first full week of employment, deducting from their pay an amount equal to the regular Union dues assessed by the Union, and to remit these dues monthly to the Local Union Financial Secretary. The said sums shall be accepted as the regular contributions, of all employees, to the Union.
6.04	UNION DUES RECORDED
Once an employee has authorized the Company to deduct Union dues, such employee shall not be entitled
12
to cancel the authorization so given while this Agreement is in effect.
The Company agrees to indicate on each employee's T4 earnings record the amount of Union dues deducted for the previous year. The Union agrees to advise the Company, each month, of any refund made to any employee.
6.05	UNION MEETINGS
It is agreed that the Union and the employees will not hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without permission of Management.
6.06	UNION MEMBER ORIENTATION
The Company agrees that each new employee will have the opportunity during the first week of employment to meet with his Committee Member for Union Orientation as defined in Article 7.01. The new employees' supervisor will introduce him to his departmental Grievance Committee Member, so that the new member can receive Union orientation. The Company will provide the Union's Local Chairperson after the end of each week with a list of employees who joined the Company during that week.
6.07	UNION AGENT VISITS
The Company agrees to permit visits by the agent of the Union to contact employee representatives or officers of the Union in connection with provisions of this Agreement, and further agrees that such person will be
13
permitted on the Company property providing prior consent of Management is obtained.
6.08	UNION BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company will provide bulletin boards for the purpose of posting Union information, in locations satisfactory to both parties, through the plant. Use of these bulletin boards must be restricted to the following types of information:
(a)	Election notices, names of candidates,	and
results of Union elections.
(b)	Notices of Union Meetings.
(c)	Any other information authorized	by	the
Company.
Each item will be provided with a removal date and will remain posted until that date.
ARTICLE 7 ■ GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
7.01	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE MEMBER
The- Company acknowledges the right of the Union to have employees elected or otherwise appointed Committee Members and, in addition, one Local Chairperson.
All Committee Members and the Local Chairperson shall be regular employees of the Company who are paying union dues. The names and area of representation of
14
each of the Committee Members and the Local Chairperson shall be given to the Company in writing and the Company shall not be required to recognize any such Committee Members or Local Chairperson until it has been so notified.
The number of Committee Members so elected or appointed shall be limited to one Committee Member for each shift in each of the following work areas:
Yarn Mill
Quality Control
Dyehouse
Finishing
Maintenance
National Service Centre
Tufting
Sampling
Weaving
Winding
7.02	MEMBER LEAVES WORK STATION
The right of Grievance Committee Members to leave their work without loss of pay to investigate or adjust grievances on behalf of an employee in any area they represent is granted on the following conditions:
(a) The Committee Member shall obtain the permission of his Supervisor before leaving work. In cases where a Committee Member represents more than one area, or is required because of an absence or vacancy to represent another area, he shall, in addition, advise the
15
Supervisor of the other area the purpose of his business. Should permission be denied for reasons unsatisfactory to the Committee Member, he may proceed to Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
(b) The time off shall be devoted to the prompt handling of grievances and shall be limited to the time required for attending Grievance Step meetings.
7.03	NOTICE OF DISCIPLINE
(a)	A copy cf any recorded verbal warning, written reprimand, suspension or discharge which has been given to any employee will be given to the Steward designated by the Union for that employee's department and also a readable copy will be given to the Local Chairperson. The Union will notify the Company in writing as to whom the designated Steward is for each department and shift.
(b)	Employees have the right to have their Grievance Committee Member or if their Grievance Committee Member is not available the Local Grievance Committee Chairperson present when ever disciplinary action is involved.
16
ARTICLE 8 ■ GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	PURPOSE
The parties of this Agreement acknowledge that it is of the utmost importance to deal with complaints and grievances as quickly as possible. Before any discussion on a complaint, it is recognized that an employee has the right to be accompanied by his Grievance Committee Member if he so desires or by another Grievance Committee Member if his member is unavailable. Both parties agree that under no circumstances shall an employee consider that he has a grievance until he has presented his complaint verbally or in writing to his immediate Supervisor and has allowed his Supervisor an opportunity to adjust the complaint.
8.02	FORMAL PRESENTATION
If the complaint is not satisfactorily settled, the formal grievance procedure may be invoked, provided that no more than seven (7) calendar days have elapsed since the time of the incident giving rise to the grievance.
Step No. 1
A written grievance shall be prepared outlining the alleged violation of the Agreement, in a form acceptable to the Union and the Company. It shall be signed by the employee filing the grievance and presented by the employee or his Grievance Committee Member to the employee's immediate Supervisor. Within five (5) employee working days of receipt of the alleged grievance, the Supervisor and the Department
17
Superintendent or their nominee, shall call a Step 1 meeting and issue a written decision within the same time limit. The grievor may be accompanied at the Step 1 meeting by his Grievance Committee Member, if he so desires, or by another Committee Member if his member is unavailable. One copy of the decision at Step 1 will be given to the employee, one to his Committee Member and one to the committee Chairperson. Receipt of any one of these copies will constitute fulfilment of the time limits of the clause.
Step No. 2
Failing settlement of the grievance at Step 1, the grievance may be taken to Step No. 2. The grievor or the Grievance Committee Local Chairperson shall, within five (5) employee working days of the decision in Step No. 1, notify, in writing, the Director of Human Resources of the intent to take the grievance to Step No. 2. The Company shall call a meeting within ten (10) employee working days after the date the Director of Human Resources or his nominee receives notification of the intent to proceed to Step No. 2. The Step No. 2 grievance meeting shall include the Director of Human Resources or his nominee, and not more than four (4) Management Representatives; the President of the Union; the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee; not more than two (2) members of his Committee; the Grievor, if he wishes to be present; and the Union Representative, if desired by either the Company or the Union. The decision of the Company shall be given in writing within five (5) employee working days after the date of the Step 2 meeting. The Step 2 meeting may be cancelled by mutual consent between the Company and the Union. One copy of the decision at
18
Step 2 will be given to the employee, one to his Committee Member and one to the Committee Chairperson. Receipt of any one of these copies will constitute fulfillment of the time limits of this clause.
8.03	ARBITRATION NOTIFICATION
If all required steps cf the grievance procedure have been followed, and a final settlement of the grievance has not been reached at Step No. 2, then the Union may at any time within forty-five (45) calendar days after the decision is given under Step 2, give written notification of its intent to invoke arbitration as provided in Article 9.
8.04	DISCHARGE AND SUSPENSION GRIEVANCES
If an employee who has completed his probationary period is discharged or suspended without just cause and feels he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall, within seven (7) calendar days after the suspension or discharge, file a written grievance with the Company and the grievance shall be dealt with beginning at Step No. 2 of the grievance procedure.
8.05	MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCES
Any grievance instituted by Management may be referred to the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee within five (5) days of the occurrence of the circumstances giving rise to the grievance. The Union Representative and the Chairperson cf the Grievance Committee and/or President of the Local shall meet within five (5) days thereafter with Management to consider the grievance.
19
If final settlement of the grievance is not completed with five (5) days of such meeting, the grievance may be taken to Arbitration as provided in Article 9 at any time within 30 calendar days thereafter, but not later.
8.06	POLICY GRIEVANCES
Any difference arising directly between the Union and the Company as to the interpretation or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement may be submitted in writing at Step 2 cf the grievance procedure.
8.07	TIME LIMITS
Any and all time limits fixed by the grievance procedure and for filing arbitrations may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union. The matter in dispute shall be deemed to have been abandoned should the Company or the Union not proceed from one step to another within the time limits specified, or as mutually extended as set out herein.
A grievance will automatically advance from Step No. 1 to Step No. 2 of the Grievance procedure if the Company fails to respond within the time limits specified, or as mutually extended as set out herein.
A grievance will be deemed to have been judged valid if the Company fails to respond in Step No. 2 within the time limits specified, or as mutually extended as set out herein.
20
8.08	GRIEVANCES DEFINED
Only differences concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of the Agreement are proper subjects for utilization of the grievance and arbitration procedures.
8.09	GRIEVANCE RESOLUTION BINDING
All decisions reached by mutual agreement under this grievance procedure shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union, and the employee.
ARTICLE 9-ARBITRATION
9.01	APPOINTMENT
In any case in which an arbitration shall be required under this Agreement, the Union and the Company shall first attempt to mutually agree upon a single Arbitrator within ten (10) days from the date of the receipt of the notice of Arbitration.
Should the Union and the Company fail to agree on the selection of an Arbitrator, then the appointment of an impartial Arbitrator shall be made by the Minister of Labour for the Province of Nova Scotia. The appointee will act as a single Arbitrator.
9.02	LIMITATIONS
The Arbitrator will not be authorized to make any decision which would alter, modify, or amend any part of this Agreement.
21
However, the Arbitrator may dispose of any discharge or discipline grievance in the manner which he considers just or equitable.
9.03	DECISION BINDING
The decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding upon both parties and the employees concerned, and should, normally, be rendered within 30 calendar days from the time the matter was referred to him. This period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
9.04	EXPENSES
When the Arbitrator deems it advisable to incur other expenses in connection with the grievance, the Arbitrator will obtain the consent of the parties before incurring such expenses.
Expenses which are incurred in connection with the services of the Arbitrator will be borne equally by both parties to this Agreement.
Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling such witnesses.
ARTICLE 10-SENIORITY
10.01	SENIORITY DATE
After having served the probationary period, an employee will be given a seniority date coinciding with the most recent date such employee first commenced
22
work with the Company under Article 10.03.
10.02	SENIORITY ZONE
(a)	Seniority shall be plant wide. An employee transferred to another department shall retain his original seniority date. Seniority lists will be revised after signing cf this Agreement and every three (3) months thereafter. Copies of the lists will be posted on the corresponding departmental bulletin boards and copies will also be given to the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee. If an employee does not challenge his seniority as stated on the seniority list within ten (10) employee working days after the list is posted, then that statement shall be deemed correct. Protests with respect to alleged inaccuracies inthe seniority lists shall be initiated at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
(b)	A new seniority list shall be posted and a copy given to the Chairperson of the grievance Committee within three working days of each layoff and recall. Each laid off employee shall be shown as LO under status or RC if recalled to his job classification or if recalled from outside the plant.
10.03	PROBATION PERIOD
An employee will be deemed to be a probationary employee and he shall have no seniority rights until, he has acquired ninety (90) days of accumulated employment, within the preceding twelve (12) months, at
23
which time he shall become entitled to Company seniority dating from his first most recent date of hire.
Any disciplinary action against a probationary employee including, without limitation, warnings, suspensions, demotions and discharge, shall be deemed absolutely to be for just cause. The Company, in its absolute discretion may terminate the employment of any probationary employee at any time with or without notice or pay in lieu of notice. The probationary period may be extended by the duration of any leave of absence granted during that period and may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
A new employee, during his probationary period but no later than upon completion of his probationary period, will be assigned by the Company to a job classification which has not been filled through the job posting procedure.
10.04	LOSS OF SENIORITY
An employee shall lose all seniority when he:
(a)	voluntarily quits his employment with the Company or retires.
(b)	is discharged and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration.
(c)	is off work for a continuous period of twenty-four (24) months or the length of the employee's seniority, whichever is shorter, except when a leave of absence has been granted.
24
1(d)	fails to accept recall when given notice of recall,
or fails to report to work within five (5) days of accepting recall, unless a reason acceptable to the Company (such as a 2 week notice to a current employer) is given and a leave of absence procedure invoked.
(e)	fails to return to work upon termination of authorized leave of absence, unless a reason acceptable to the Company is given.
(f)	accepts gainful employment while on leave of absence without first obtaining the consent of the Company in writing.
(g)	fails to notify the Company of his absence for a period of three (3) consecutive working days unless his reason for such lack of notification is beyond his control.
10,05	EMPLOYEE ADDRESS
It shall be the duty of each employee to notify the Company promptly of any change in address. Notice required to be given by the company shall be deemed to be given if forwarded to the employee at the last address cf which the Company had notice. The Local Chairperson will be notified when the Company has failed to contact an employee for recall or other seniority related items.
10.06	PHYSICIAN'S CERTIFICATE
(a)	An employee's return to work after a medical
25
leave will be conditional on supplying, when requested, a certificate from a physician that states he is fully recovered and is able to perform the work in his job classification.
(b)	The Company reserves the right to require medical certificates verifying illness-related absences.
(c)	If the Company requests a medical certificate, other than those required for Weekly Indemnity claims, the Company will reimburse the employee to a maximum of $25.00 if the employee is required to pay a Doctor's fee.
10.07	SHORT LAYOFFS
Short layoffs may be invoked as the result of a breakdown of equipment, accident, or other events outside the control of the Company.
Layoffs within specific plant operations of more than one day, but less than five (5) calendar days, shall be based upon seniority of the employees in the job classification of the departmental shift affected.
Should a short layoff exceed more than one complete day, an employee affected by such a layoff may exercise his seniority as set out in the following order.
(a)	By taking the layoff or by displacing the most junior employee within his departmental shift, provided he is capable of performing the required work efficiently, or,
26
(b)	If the employee is not able to exercise his seniority as stated above he shall;
(I) Displace the most junior employee in another department on the same shift in a group level (4)job for which he has previously qualified, or a group level (3)job for which he has previously qualified, or a group level (2)j ob for which he has previously qualified, or;
(ji) Displace the most junior employee in a group level I job, provided he is capable of performing the required work efficiently.
Once the layoff expires, the employee affected by the
layoff must return to his prior job classification.
10.08	EXTENDED LAYOFFS AND BUMPING
(a)	The Company will give the Union one (1) week notice in writing of its intent to lay off if the layoff is to exceed five (5) consecutive working days, The Company will provide the initial employee being laid off the same one (1) week notice of the layoff in his classification. This does not apply to an employee who is subsequently laid off as a result of having been bumped by a more senior employee.
(b)	Foremost, those employees with seniority who remain must be capable of performing the required work efficiently.
27
(c)	Employees with seniority shall not be required to leave the plant through the layoff procedure while employees without seniority remain in the plant except where such employee holds a skilled trades job classification.
(d)	Where it is necessary to reduce the work force by extended layoffs, an employee who is laid off or, who is bumped, thereby displacing the employee from his job classification, shall, provided he has plant seniority over the employee he bumps, exercise his bumping rights in the following order:
(i)	The employee shall first bump his last previously held job classification, (qualified through job posting), in sequential order within the plant, by bumping the most junior employee in such job classification:
(ii)	If such an employee, because of his seniority, cannot exercise his bumping rights set out in (i) above, he shall be required to exercise his bumping rights to his last previously held job classification obtained under the temporary transfer clause (Article 10.16), which will include jobs covered under the umbrella of the employee's current job. This will be done in sequential order within the plant, by displacing the most junior employee in that job classification.
28
(iii) If such employee, because of his seniority, cannot exercise his bumping rights as set out in (ii) above, he shall be required to exercise his bumping rights to his last previously held job, (obtained as a result of a prior bumping or recall procedure) in sequential order within the plant, by bumping the most junior employee in that job classification.
(iv) If -such employee, because of his seniority, cannot exercise his bumping rights set out in (iii) above, where such employee is not the most junior employee in the plant, he shall bump the most junior employee working in a group level four (4) job classification. If not because of his seniority, he shall bump the most junior employee in a group level three (3) job classification and continue bumping in sequential order until no person junior to such employee remains in the plant. An employee exercising this right must be able to show that he will be able to do the job within the qualifying time or be disqualified. An employee if he desires may voluntarily take the layoff by advising the Company in writing within one day of notice of layoff and will be placed on general recall status.
29
(e)	The right to bump shall be confined to those
employees who	have	completed	their
probationary period.
(f)	The onus is on an employee to be aware cf his bumping rights and it is agreed that the Company will not be liable to an employee or his Union for an employee failing to exercise his proper bumping rights. However, when requested, the Company will assist an employee in determining his bumping right.
jg) In the case of a reduction, an employee affected by a layoff may elect to take the layoff if he is in a skilled trades classification or in the case where an employee has a bona fide medical reason and is unable to perform work which is available and such reason is acceptable to the Company.
(h) An employee who is displaced from his job classification as a result of a reduction in the work force but not laid off from the plant must return to his prior job classification when a permanent job vacancy becomes available within a two (2) year period. Beyond the two (2) year period, the job classification will be posted when a permanent vacancy occurs and is required to be filled, However, an employee as described herein will forfeit his right to return to his prior job classification if he takes a job posting during this period.
30
10.09	RECALL PROCEDURE
Recall to the plant from a layoff exceeding one (1) day
shall be based upon the following:
(a)	It is understood that a vacancy shall be filled first by the employee with the most Company seniority who has posted recall or bumping rights to the job classification.
(b)	A vacancy in a Group Level four (4) or lower job classification shall be filled by the employee on layoff from the plant with the most Company seniority, unlessthey are on a voluntary layoff. A Skilled Trades employee shall remain on layoff and will be recalled only to h , skilled trades job classification when it becomes available or will be placed on general recall status if advised in writing by the employee at time of lay off.
(c)	An employee who has been recalled from layoff from the plant must return to his prior job classification when a permanent job vacancy becomes available. However, an employee as described herein shall forfeit his right to return to his prior job classification if the employee is awarded a job posting during his layoff.
(d)	An employee exercising this right must be able to show that he will be able to do the job within the qualifying time or be disqualified.
31
10.10	ADVANCE APPLICATIONS FOR POSTINGS
(a)	If an employee wishes to be considered for the next vacancy which may occur in any job classification, he may make written application to the Human Resource Department using the prescribed form. The Company will forward a copy to the Union President and will maintain the application on file until the end of each calendar year or until the employee is awarded the job or he asks, in writing, for this application to be removed, whichever occurs first. When a vacancy occurs in the job classification sought, he is assured of consideration along with any others who may have applied by that method or through the normal job posting procedure and will be required to take the job classification if awarded as in 10.11(a).
(b)	Employees who have such a request filed with the Human Resource Department and are awarded the position must return to work within four (4) months from the date of the posting. If the employee cannot return to work or does not return to work within the four month period the position will be awarded to the employee next in line who qualifies.
10.11	PROMOTION AND JOB POSTING
(a)	Posting of Permanent Job Vacancies
All present and newly created hourly-rated permanent
32
vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be posted on the Company bulletin board for six (8) calendar days, which shall exclude holidays and plant shutdowns, to give employees with qualifications and seniority ample time to apply in writing. Employees are required to submit separate applications when applying for more than one job posting and must indicate their preference (e.g. first, second, third, etc.). The successful applicant for a posted vacancy will be obliged to take the job when awarded a job posting.
Qualifying experience or skill as stated in the job posting will be reasonable and consistent with requirements of the job classification.
(b)	Awarding of Job Postings
The Company shall fill all job postings based upon plant seniority provided that the senior employee possesses the qualifying experience or skill as outlined in the job posting.
(c)	Special Skill Job Vacancies
When requisite qualifications for permanent job vacancies which require special skills, (skilled tradesmen) are not possessed by applicants, then the job vacancy may be filled through outside hiring.
(d)	Transfer to New Job
The Company will be able to temporarily transfer employees or hire new employees to fill a job vacancy that cannot be filled immediately by the successful
33
applicant because of training requirements or other delays. This period will not exceed twenty-one (21) calendar days, unless mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union.
(e)	Failing to Qualify
An employee failing to become qualified for the new job will be returned to the job from which he was promoted.
(f)	Accommodation of a disability
Before awarding a job posting, the Company and Union will consider the accommodation of any employees who are off work as a result of an occupational disability. When considering such employees the parties will keep in mind the seniority rights of the bargaining unit.
10.12	PROMOTION RESTRICTIONS
Employees within the bargaining unit shall not be restricted from being awarded promotional or lateral moves through the job posting procedure within the plant. However, an employee who wishes to self-demote through the job (to a lower paying job classification) shall be limited to one (1)such self-demotional job posting award within a one (1) year period from the date of the award.
10.13	SENIORITY RETENTION
An employee permanently promoted or transferred from one job classification to another shall retain his seniority in his former job classification until he is transferred and
34
commences work in his new job classification.
10.14	STAFF VACANCIES
It will be Company policy to fill staff vacancies by promotion or transfer of existing Company employees drawn either from outside or within the bargaining unit, subject to management judgement of suitability.
10.15	TRANSFER OUT OF UNIT
(a)	In the event that an employee within the bargaining unit has been promoted or transferred to a position beyond the scope of this Agreement and within one year is returned by Management to a position within the scope of this Agreement, he shall retain all seniority he had previously acquired and shall have added thereto the seniority accumulated while serving outside the bargaining unit. This one year period shall be accumulative. Such an employee shall retain his job rights for this one year period.
(b)	In the event that an employee within the bargaining unit has been promoted or transferred to a position beyond the scope cf this Agreement for more than one year but less than two years is returned by Management to a position within the scope of this Agreement, he will be laid off and will be subject to recall based on the seniority accumulated prior to the promotion or transfer.
35
(c)	The Company shall advise the Union in writing of the name of any employee within the bargaining unit who is promoted or transferred by the Company to a position beyond the scope of this Agreement and the date in which the promotion or transfer occurred.
10.16	TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
(a)	Where a temporary transfer of an employee to a job classification is necessary to effect proper and efficient operation cf the plant, the Company will give preference by seniority to employees within the shift and department affected to fill the immediate job vacancy and subsequent job vacancies.
Temporary transfers will be made by giving the senior employee occupying a job classification within the departmental shift concerned preference provided he makes his desire known to his Supervisor and that he has the knowledge and ability to do the job. If a senior employee does not indicate preference to be temporarily transferred, the Company will temporarily transfer the least senior employee from within the departmental shift who has the knowledge and ability to do the job.
(b)	The employee transferred shall receive the higher of his current rate or the rate cf the job to which he is transferred, as outlined in the wage schedule. He shall be considered to be in his regular job classification for the purpose of
36
overtime distribution during such time as he fills the temporary job. Upon completion of such temporary transfer period, the transferred employee shall be returned to his previous job.
(c)	Temporary transfers shall be limited to a maximum of thirty (30) calendar days except where such transfer is caused by a leave of absence having been granted to another employee, in which case the temporary transfer may continue for the duration of the leave of absence. Where temporary transfers exceed thirty (30) calendar days, the Company shall advise the Local Chairperson in writing; at which time, upon written request by the Union, the transfer will be reviewed by the Company, the Local Chairperson of the Union, and the transferred employee.
10.17	TRAINING PROGRAMS
When training programs for job classifications within the bargaining unit are implemented, postings and selection shall be on the basis as provided in 10.11.
10.18	CROSS TRAINING
Where applicants for cross training have been invited through the job posting procedure, and subsequently selected, no further posting is required when a vacancy occurs in the job for which the selected employee has been cross trained and qualified. The employee will retain the cross training job posting until either he posts to a higher job classification in his department or posts
37
out of his department.
10.19	PERMANENT SHIFT TRANSFERS
(a)	For employees on permanent shifts, transfers from one shift to another shall be based on seniority within the classification affected.
(5) Employees will be able to trade shifts for limited agreed periods of time providing they have permission from their immediate Supervisors.
10.20	TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
It is understood that the Company will first temporarily recall an employee who is laid off from the plant to fill in for temporary increases in production requirements, vacations and other absences before hiring a temporary employee. When the Company deems it necessary, they may hire and train temporary employees for Group Level five (5) or lower to fill in for temporary increases in production requirements, vacations or other absences. These employees will pay Union Dues and be under the rules and regulations that apply to all employees but will not have seniority rights or rights to grievance procedures that normally are given to employees who have completed their probationary periods. Temporary employees will be limited to working 130 calendar days in any one calendar year. A temporary employee who exceeds this period will be considered to be a permanent employee. The seniority date for such an employee will be back-dated 90 days from the point at which he exceeded his 130 days. Thus, the traditional 90 day probationary period will be recognized for seniority
38
purposes. All employees who are hired as temporary employees will be told that their employment is conditional and will have to sign a form to this effect. The Local Chairperson will be given a copy of these forms and a list of temporary employees which will include their starting dates and the date at which they would have exceeded their 130 days.
The rate of pay for temporary employees will be twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour below the rate for Group 1 jobs.
The Company will provide the Local Chairperson with a list, weekly, containing the names of all temporary employees and the jobs they have worked at during the previous week.
ARTICLE 11 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.01	REQUEST FOR LEAVE
The Company may grant leave of absence without pay to employees for acceptable reasons and durations.
Duplicate copies cf any employee request to supervision for leave of absence will be filed simultaneously with the Personnel Department and the Union Local Chairperson and will be considered jointly by the employee's Supervisor and the Director of Human Resources to ensure fair and consistent consideration of all requests.
11.02	LEAVE FOR UNION BUSINESS
The Company will allow leave of absence without pay to
39
a maximum of one (1) representative from each department, as listed in Article 7,01, chosen by the Union to participate in Union activities, provided that reasonable notice is given, and also provided that there will be no adverse effect on operating requirements and the duration requested is reasonable. The Union may request leave of absence for more than the one (1) Union members, from each department, simultaneously in special circumstances.
11.03	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
(a)	An employee who suffers a death in his immediate family shall, upon request, be granted a leave of absence beginning at the time of the death five (5) consecutive working days to make arrangements for and to attend the funeral. The employee shall be compensated at his regular rate of pay for each day of his normal work schedule without premiums. Immediate family is defined as Spouse, Father, Mother, Sister, Brother and Child.
(b)	An employee who suffers a death in his extended family shall, upon request, be granted a leave of absence beginning at the time of the death three (3) consecutive working days to make arrangements for and to attend the funeral. The employee shall be compensated at his regular rate of pay for each day of his normal work schedule without premiums. Extended family is defined as Mother-in-Law, Father-in-Law and Legal Guardian. Bereavement leave shall also be granted in the event of death of an
40
individual not fitting the relationships outlined above, but being domicile in the same unit residence as the employee at the time of death.
(c)	Employees are ensured of one day without loss of pay to attend the funeral of a Grandparent, Grand Child, Grandparent of Spouse, Sister-inLaw or Brother-in-Law.
(d)	Application for Bereavement Leave under this provision of the Agreement must be completed in writing using the prescribed Company form.
(e)	Common-Law status of a Spouse or Same Sex Spouse will be recognized only if the employee has advised the Company in writing of such Common-Law status prior to bereavement.
11.04	LEAVE OF ABSENCE JURY DUTY
An employee who is summoned for jury duty and is required to lose time from work as a result, shall be paid for actual time lost with a maximum of one day's pay at the straight time rate of his position for each day lost, less the amount allowed him for jury duty for each such day excluding any allowances paid by the court for meals, lodging, transportation, etc.
11.05	SICK LEAVE
Each employee will be granted two days of paid sick leave during the calendar year. Unused sick leave
41
entitlement will be paid out at the end of the calendar year. Sick leave will be paid at the regular rate of pay without premiums, times the hours of the shift scheduled at the time of illness. Employees must have completed their probationary period before qualifying for this leave. Employees who terminate employment will be credited for one paid sick day for each period of six months of employment completed within the calendar year and the final payment of wages will be adjusted according to sick days already used.
ARTICLE 12 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES, WORKLOADS AN D CLASSIFICATIONS
12.01	TECHNOLOGICAL/ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGE
Where a technological or organizationalchange will result in the termination of one or more permanent jobs, the Company will engage in meaningful discussion with the Union with the object of arriving at the best solution to the problem of worker displacement. The following principles will provide guidelines for such consultations:
(a)	Eight (8) weeks notice of proposed changes will be given to the Union.
(b)	Flexibility will be practice by both parties.
(c)	Placement of as many employees as practical within Company operations will be attempted.
(d)	Natural attrition will be utilized to minimize worker displacementto the maximum degree the Company finds practical.
42
(e)	If placement within the Company is not practical, government agencies will be consulted to assist in outside placement.
(f)	Final notice, if necessary, will be given as follows:
(I) one week's notice in writing to the employee if his seniority is more than three months and less than two years;
(ii)	two weeks' notice in writing to the employee if his seniority is two years or more, but less than five years:
(iii)	four weeks' notice in writing to the employee if his seniority is five years or more, but less than ten years; and,
(iv)	eight weeks' notice in writing if the employee's seniority is ten years or more.
Alternatively, the Company may give notice in writing and pay the employee an amount equal to the pay to which he would have been entitled for work that would have been performed by him, at his regular rate, in a normal non-overtime work week for the appropriate period of notice as defined above.
12,02	COMPETITIVE POSITION AND WORKLOADS
The parties hereto recognize that, for the purpose of providing more efficient operations of the plant and thereby keeping the Company in a competitive position
43
in the industry, it is necessary from time to time to:
(a)	install new and modern machinery;
(b)	develop new machines;
(c)	develop improvements for machinery;
(d)	develop new methods, manufacturingprocesses and techniques;
(e)	make changes in materials processed or quality or manufacturing standards;
(f)	create new jobs and revise or combine existing jobs and establish wage rates;
(g)	make time and motion studies and	adjust
workloads on jobs, and;
(h)	change from-day ratesto incentive rates,	or vice
versa.
Consistent with the principle of a fair day's work for a fair day's pay and consistent with the employee's welfare in regard to safety, health and the effect of sustained effort, the Company may establish and maintain, and the Union agrees to co-operate in establishing and maintaining full workloads.
12.03	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
The Company will continue the established practice of determining relative wage rates. Before finalizing new or
44
revised job descriptions covered by this Agreement, the Company agrees to discuss with the Union President or his nominee and a Steward of the Department affected, the circumstances giving rise to the change.
The Union may request the Company to re-evaluate a job classification rate. Within ninety (90) days of a written request outlining reasons for the request, the Company will advise the Union of the result of the re-evaluation. A job classification rate will not be reduced during the term cf the Agreement as a result of a re-evaluation of a job classification requested by the Union.
ARTICLE 13- HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND PREMIUMS
13.01 HOURS OF WORK
(a)	Eight (8) hours of work will constitute a work day and forty hours a work week for 5 day, 8 hour day work and 5 day, 8 hour shift work operations.
(b)	Twelve (12) hours of work will constitute a work day and 40 hours per week averaged over a one year period will constitute a work week for the 12 hour, 7 daywork schedule.
(c)	Eight (8) hours of work will constitute a work day and 40 hours per week averaged over a one year period will constitute a work week for an 8 hour, 7 day work schedule. This 8 hour, 7 day work schedule will only be implemented during the term of this Agreement by mutual agreement
45
between the Company and the Union.
Nothing herein, however, shall be interpreted to guarantee minimum hours of work or limit the number of hours of work that the Company may require.
13.02	BREAKS
Breaks will be provided as follows:
(a)	Eight (8) hour shift work - one paid thirty (30) minute lunch break and two paid fifteen (15) minute rest breaks.
(b)	Twelve (12) hour shift work - one paid thirty (30) minute lunch break and four (4) paid fifteen (15) minute rest breaks, or, one paid thirty (30) minute lunch break and two (2) paid thirty (30) minute rest breaks by mutual agreement between the Supervisor and an employee.
13.03	SHIFT PREMIUMS
(a)	8 HOUR SHIFTS
Eight (8) hour shift workers will be paid a thirty-two cents ($0.32) per hour shift premium for the hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight and a forty cents ($0.40) per hour shift premium for the hours worked between 12:00 midnight and 8:00 a.m.
(b)	12 HOUR SHIFTS
Twelve (12) hour shift workers will be paid a fifty cents
46
($0.50) per hour shift premium for the hours worked
between8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
13.04	OVERTIME RATES
(a)	For all authorized work in excess of the regularly scheduled eight hour shifts, an employee will be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 'A) times his regular hourly rate.
(b)	For all authorized work in excess of 12 hours per day, an employee will be paid at the rate of two (2) times his regular hourly rate.
(c)	For production employees on 12 hr. 7-day shift schedule who normally work 84 hours every two weeks, the extra 4 hours will be paid at overtime rate. On the week of 36 hours all hours will be paid at regular rate; on the week cf 48 hours, 44 hours will be paid at regular rate and 4 hours at the rate of time and one half. It is agreed that absence during the 48 hour week will not eliminate the overtime hours so long as a minimum of 12 hours are worked in that week.
13.05	OVERTIME RATES FOR PRIME TIME
(a)	Forthe 5-day, 8-hour day work and 5-day, 8-hour shift schedule, the employee will be paid at the rate cf two (2) times his regular hourly rate for all authorized work between the hours of 4:00 p.m. Saturday and 4:00 p.m. Sunday.
(b)	Forthe 7-day, 8-hour or 12-hourdav and the 7-
47
day, 8-hour or 12-hour shift schedule, the employee will be paid at one and one half (1 'A) times his regular hourly rate for work performed on his designated Saturday and two (2) times his regular hourly rate for work performed on his designated Sunday. A first day off will be considered a Saturday. Second and subsequent days off the schedule will be considered to be Sunday.
13.06	OVERTIME AND RESCHEDULED SHIFTS
Overtime rate will not be paid for make-up or rescheduling of shifts to suit the convenience of an employee or group of employees.
13.07	OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION
Overtime work in excess of the shift schedule in effect at any one time is intended to be on a voluntary basis provided adequate response is received. Overtime will be allocated on an equal opportunity basis and will be distributed as evenly as possible to those employees in the job classification for which overtime work is required, who are willing to work overtime, and who are qualified for the work required. Overtime will be offered to employees outside of the job classification within the department only after all reasonable attempts to obtain sufficient response within the job classification have been exhausted. After all reasonable attempts to obtain sufficient response from both inside and outside the department have been exhausted, the Company reserves
48
the right to schedule the most junior qualified employee in the classificationto do the overtime.
It is understood that the distribution of overtime does not assume that each employee sharing overtime will at any given time have received the same number of overtime credits, but merely expresses a fundamental practice to keep such overtime as nearly in balance from time to time as is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
When the Company deems it necessary to have work performed on overtime the following procedure will be used:
(a)	Overtime opportunities will be first offered to employees in the job classification who normally perform the work, commencing with the employee who has on record the least amount of overtime credits. An employee shall be recorded on the overtime list within his job classification as having worked the overtime when he has worked the overtime; when he is absent from work on his shift when overtime would have been offered to him; when he has been offered voluntary overtime and declines; when he is absent and, as a result of his absence, overtime is required, except when he is on vacation including the weekend (or designated weekend) continuous to the vacation, unless availability is made known beforehand; and when the Company is unable to contact the employee after reasonable attempts to do so.
(b)	After all reasonableattemptsto obtain sufficient
49
response by employees from within the job classification are exhausted, Overtime opportunities will be offered to employees outside the job classification, within the department. Overtime worked by an employee outside his job classification shall be recorded with the overtime credits on the overtime list as having worked within his job classification. If such an employee declines an overtime opportunity outside his job classification, no overtime credits will be recorded.
(c)	If the balance of overtime hours among employees who normally share overtime work is not properly maintained because of an improper allocation and a grievance is filed, and as a result, an employee is found not to have had his fair share of overtime, the off-balance condition shall be identified and preference given to the aggrieved employee over the other employees involved as soon as is reasonably possible until a fair balance in the overtime distribution is reestablished.
(d)	The Company agrees to post overtime lists showing overtime credits of employees. These lists will be revised each week and total credits shall be carried forward from week to week during the calendar year. Each department within the plant will be consistent in the manner for which overtime credits are recorded.
(e)	Overtime credits will be recorded on the overtime list as follows: For example, eight (8)
50
hours worked at time and one half will be recorded as twelve (12) credits and eight (8) hours worked at double time will be recorded as sixteen (16) credits.
(f)	An employee who is transferred from one job classification to another job classification through a job posting, bumping or recall, will, upon transfer, be credited with the average of the overtime credits in the job classification within the departmental shift to which he is transferred, except when there is only one employee per shift in that classification in which case he will be averaged with those in the classification.
(g)	An employee who is absent from work for one week or more, except when he is on vacation, will upon return to work, be credited with the average of the overtime credits in the job classification within the departmental shift to which he returns except when there is only one employee per shift in that classification in which case he will be averaged with those in the classification.
(h)	An employee on temporary transfer under Article 10.16 (b) shall be considered in his regular job classification for the purpose of overtime distribution.
(I) When overtime credits are equal for all employees in a job classification the most senior employee will be asked first. This procedure will
51
continue until all employees in the job classification have established overtime credits, at which time Article 13.07 (a) will prevail.
(j) Probationary or Temporary employees will be asked for overtime only after all employees in the job classificationwith seniority have been asked.
(I<) The difference in overtime credits should not exceed forty (40) hours.
13.08	OVERTIME BREAKS
An employee who has worked an eight (8) hour shift and is required to work overtime shall be allowed a ten (10) minute break before the start of his overtime work. If he is scheduled to work two hours or more of overtime, he shall be allowed a twenty (20) minute break prior to beginning his overtime work.
Subsequent breaks will follow the pattern of the department in which he is working.
13.09	OVERTIME LUNCH ALLOWANCE
An employee who is required to work three and one half hours to eight hours of overtime as an extension of his shift will be paid a lunch allowance of six dollars ($6.00). If an employee is required to work a further three and one half hours, he will be entitled to an additional six dollars ($6.00) lunch allowance. The employee's foreman or another member of supervision will make arrangements for the payment to the employee.
52
13.10 CALL IN
I (a)	If an emergency arises whereby an employee is
recalled without prior notice to come to work after his scheduled shift, he will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his regular rate or for the actual time worked prior to the commencement of his next shift, at the applicable overtime rate, whichever is greater. At the time the employee is called, he will be advised of the nature of the problem and/or the approximate amount of time he will be required to work. The employee will only be required to perform the work for which he was called except when it is apparent and he is so advised, before he leaves the plant, that additional emergency work is required.
(b)	An employee, while on emergency call-in, will receive a six dollar ($6.00) lunch allowance for each consecutivefour (4) hours worked until the commencement of his next scheduled shift. An employee while on emergency call-in, who works less than four (4) hours however is required to work past one (1) hour immediately prior to the commencement of his next scheduled shift will receive a six dollar ($6.00) lunch allowance.
(c)	If an employee is called in after midnight, the call in pay will be six (6) hours pay at his regular rate or for the actual time worked prior to the commencement of his next shift, at the applicable overtime rate, whichever is greater.
53
13.11 REPORTING IN
Any employee who comes to work for which he was scheduled without having been advised in advance that his services were not required shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate for his scheduled eight (8) hour shift or six (6) hours pay at his regular rate for his scheduled twelve (12) hour shift, whichever the case may be, provided he does any job available that the Company may request. This, however, does not apply in the case where lack of available work is due to causes beyond the control of the Company, as, for example, machinery breakdown, fire, flood, power failure or other like causes, or if the failure to receive notice was caused by the employee's absence on the previous day.
ARTICLE 14- HOLIDAYS
14.01	DESIGNATED PLANT HOLIDAYS
The following will be paid plant holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Unless mutually agreed otherwise between the parties
54
herein, two additional paid holidays between Boxing Day and New Year's Day will be selected by the Company following a discussion with the Union.
14.02	HOLIDAY PAY
All regular employees shall receive holiday pay at their regular hourly rate for the number of hours in their normal work day.
For employees on a 12 hour, 7 day shift schedule, the holiday pay will be 12 hours when the holidays fall on a regularly scheduled day. For employees who are off on their regular days off, attempts will be made to allocate a day prior to or immediately after the holiday as a designated holiday. Employees working on their designated holiday will be paid according to the provisions in Article 14.04. Holidays will begin at 8:00 a.m. on the day of the holiday and end at 8:00 a.m. on the day after the holiday to accommodate the present 12 hour, 7 day shift schedule.
14.03	QUALIFYING FOR HOLIDAY PAY
In order to be entitled to payment for a plant holiday, an employee must have worked his scheduled full working day immediately preceding the holiday and his scheduled full working day immediately following the holiday unless a reason acceptable to the Company is given.
14.04	WORK ON A HOLIDAY
If an employee is required to work on one cf the above-mentioned plant holidays, he shall receive payment at the
55
rate of time and one-half his regular hourly rate for the hours actually worked by him in addition to receiving his holiday pay.
14.05	HOLIDAY ON VACATION/DAY OF REST
When any of the said holidays falls on a day of an employee's vacation or on an employee's day off, the Company may pay the employee the holiday pay to which he may be entitled or give the employee a day off in lieu thereof, at a time mutually convenient to the Company and the employee or majority of employees when more than one employee is affected.
ARTICLE 15-VACATIONS
15.01	VACATION DAYS
Length of employee vacation in a given year shall be in
accordance with the following schedule:
(a)	Seniority of lessthan one (1) year as of May 31 = the equivalent of one 8-hour day per month of service, up to a maximum of two (2) weeks.
(b)	Seniority in excess of one (1) year as of May 31 = two (2) weeks.
(c)	Seniority in excess of five (5)years as of May 31 = three (3) weeks.
(d)	Seniority in excess of twelve (12) years as of May 31 = four (4)weeks.
56
(e)	Seniority in excess of twenty-two (22)years asof May 31 = five (5)weeks.
15.02	VACATION PAY RATES
Annual vacation pay shall be in accordance with the
following schedule:
(a)	Up to five years seniority at May 31 =4%oftotal earnings.
(b)	Five years seniority up to twelve years at May 31 = 6% cf total earnings.
(c)	Twelve years seniority up to twenty-two years at May 31 = 8% of total earnings.
(d)	Twenty-two years or mare at May 31 = 10% of total earnings.
15.03	VACATION PAY BASE
(a)	Vacation pay shall be based on earned wages including vacation pay for the previous fifty-two (52) week period closest to May 31 provided the employee had worked during that fifty-two (52) week period.
(b)	An employee will receive vacation pay for approved absence for reason of illness or accident, calculated at the appropriate percentage stated in Article 15.02 times the pay that the employee would have received during
57
the period of absence at the straight time rate without premiums.
(c)	An employee absent for more than four (4) months between June 1 and May 31 will be entitled to his regular vacation pay in percentage of actual earnings only, except when the absence is due to Pregnancy Leave.
15.04	VACATION SCHEDULING
Employees with three weeks or less of vacation will take their vacation during the annual plant shutdown. Exceptions will be made in the case of employees required for maintenance and those requested to work in other areas on a voluntary basis. In these cases, preference will be given to employees with the greatest seniority in scheduling vacations outside the annual shutdown period, provided the employee advised his intent at least one month before the requested vacation date.
For the employees with a fourth or fifth week of vacation, the fourth or fifth week may be taken at a time mutually satisfactory to the Company and the employee. Employees with a fourth or fifth week of vacation, may be permitted to take any portion of the fourth or fifth week in periods of not less than one half day durations provided the vacation time taken is at a time mutually satisfactory to the Company and the employee.
Where an annual plant shutdown is not anticipated, vacation scheduling will be based on a selection process which recognizes seniority as a pre-determining factor in
58
vacation preference. Such application of seniority rights in choosing vacation dates will be exercised prior to the second Friday in April. Any request after this date will not be allowed if it will displace any junior employee who has already fixed a vacation date.
15.05	VACATION/WORK OPTION
For employees having more than two weeks of vacation entitlement, the Company agrees to allow employees to work a third, fourth and/or fifth week of vacation at their regular rates of pay, including overtime and premiums. The employees must declare their intention to sell their third, fourth and/or fifth weeks of vacation and be paid on the pay period when the employee has his next vacation week scheduled.
ARTICLE 16 - OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
16.01	ACCIDENT PREVENTION
Both parties hereto will co-operate to the fullest extent reasonably possible toward the prevention of accidents and the promotion of safety and health of the employees of the Company. It is hereby agreed that it shall be the duty of the employees to make use of all reasonable protective devices and equipment made available by the Company.
16.02	INJURY ON DUTY
An employee who is injured on duty, should such an injury necessitate the employee leaving the plant for
59
medical treatment during his authorized work period, shall be paid the wages to which he would have been entitled, had he worked the entire authorized work period, provided the injury necessitates that the employee remain off work for the remainder of that shift.
16.03	SAFETY COMMITTEES
The Company and the Union agree to establish a Joint Occupational Health & Safety Committee and Departmental Safety Committees. The	Joint
Occupational Health a Safety Committee shall be comprised of six members elected or appointed by the Company and six members elected or appointed by the Union, and the Director of Human Resources or his delegate who will act as Chairperson. All members must be full time employees of the Company. The purpose of the Committees will be to point out hazardous conditions and actions, recommend corrective action, and monitor the speed with which such action is implemented.
16.04	RIGHT TO REFUSE UNSAFE WORK
(a)	If an employee has reasonable cause to believe that a machine, device or thing is unsafe to use or operate, or that a work situation is unsafe, because such operation is likely to endanger himself or another employee, the employee may refuse to use or operate the machine, device or thing, or continue to work in that situation.
(b)	The Company agrees that there shall be no discriminatory action taken againstan employee who has made such a refusal; however, it does
60
not permit an employee or a group of employees to declare a work place, machine, device or thing as unsafe and automatically have the operation suspended.
(c)	When such a refusal is made by an employee, an investigation will be performed by the immediate supervisor, at least one (1) member of the Departmental Safety Committee, at least one (1) member of the Central Health and Safety Committee and the employee(s) involved in the refusal.
The investigation report will be completed by the foreperson involved, with copies going to the employee involved, Union President, Local Chairperson, Director of Human Resources, Department Supervisor and the Central Health and Safety Committee.
(d)	If the investigation reveals that the employee's complaint is valid, he will be temporarily reassigned other work if an immediate remedy to the problem is not feasible or practicable.
(e)	If the investigation reveals that the work can be performed safely, then the Supervisor may request the employee to return to the job. Should the employee again refuse, he may be reassigned other work or be sent home without pay. The Supervisor then may instruct another employee to perform the task provided he is made aware of the first employee's refusal.
61
(fj Any prolonged disagreement on the safety of a work situation shall be investigated by the Joint Occupational Health Committee and then, if necessary, be referred to the appropriate authorities. An employee who fails to adhere to a directive following such an investigation shall be subject to normal disciplinary procedures for continuing to refuse to perform work assigned.
16.05	UNION SAFETY EDUCATION
The Company may grant leave of absence without pay to employees identified by the Union Executive for the purpose of attending safety education courses sponsored by the Union. Such leave may be granted provided that the number of employees released at any one time does not exceed ten (10) and provided that reasonable notice is given, and also provided that there will be no adverse effect on operating requirements and the duration of requests and the frequency of requests are reasonable.
16.06	SAFETY SHOES
The Company agrees to reimburse employees, with valid receipts up to fifty dollars ($50.00) per pair, per employee, per year towards the purchase of safety shoes that meet Company specifications and that are purchased from a recognized industrial Safety Shoe supplier or manufacturer and which are regularly worn by such employee. The Union will cooperate with the Company in assuring that employees follow the policy regarding the wearing of safety shoes.
An employee must have been in the employ of the
62
Company for at least six months before he qualifies for a safety shoe reimbursement.
The safety shoe reimbursement shall be $50.00 per year or $100.00 for two years time since the date of the last safety shoe purchase.
16.07	ENVIRONMENTAL MEASUREMENTS
The Joint Occupational Healths Safety Committee will be responsible for determining the need to take environmental measurements. The Company will designate three members and the Union will appoint or elect three members to form a committee to monitor such testing. Whenever a test or measurement is conducted, it will be done by at least one member of the Company Committee and one member of the Union Committee. Testing equipment acquired at a reasonable cost to the Company as well as any procedural methods or standards must be certified by either Canadian or United States Governmental authorities.
ARTICLE 17 -ALLOCATION OF WORK
17.01	CONTRACTING OUT
The Company has in the past and may continue at its discretion to allocate certain work to outside suppliers from time to time. These management decisions will only be taken after due consideration to the efficient operation of the business and the personal welfare and job security of any employee affected.
63
Except in the case of an emergency, the Company will give the Union advance notice in writing of any work within the plant performed under this Contracting Out clause.
17.02	ASSIGNMENT OF WORK
The Company agrees that members of Supervision and Staff shall not perform work which is assigned to members of the bargaining unit. Exceptions may be made in situations dealing with items such as emergencies, safety, training, and development work. Development work, shall be defined as experimental work which when completed will become part of the existing bargaining unit work.
ARTICLE 18 -STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
18.01	NO WORK STOPPAGE
In view of the orderly procedures established by this Agreement for the settling of disputes and handling of grievances, the Union agrees that, during the life of this Agreement, there will be no strike, picketing, slow-down or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout. In the event of an illegal strike, picketing, slow-down or stoppage of work, the Union will actively assist the Company in quickly ending such action.
18.02	STRIKE DISCIPLINE
The Company shall have the right to discipline employees who take part in or instigate any strike, picketing,
64
stoppage or slow-down contrary to the provisions of the Trade Union Act or this Agreement.
ARTICLE 19 -WAGES
19.01	HOURLY WAGE RATES
All current wage rates listed in Appendix A were increased by two percent effective November 1,1996 and payable retroactively from date of signing for actual earnings excluding premiums during that period. Effective November 1, 1997, all current wage rates listed in Appendix A were increased by one and one half percent. Effective November 1, 1998, all wages listed in Appendix A were increased by two percent.
19.02	WAGE PROGRESSION
(a)	An	employee	promoted	from	one	job
classification to another job classification within the same labour group will retain the same pay throughout the training period of the new job.
(b)	An	employee	promoted	from	one	job
classification to another job classification immediately above his present labour group will continue atthe rate of pay of his former job for a period of four (4) weeks and then progress to the standard rate for his new job. However, an employee who has previously held the new job classification through the job posting procedure shall receive the standard rate for the new job upon transfer provided the employee is qualified to perform the job without training.
65
(c)	An employee promoted to a job classification which is in a labour group more than one labour group above his present job classification, will continue at his present rate for four (4) weeks, then progress to the rate of pay of the next labour group. He will then be paid at the rate of that group for a period of four (4) weeks and for any other subsequent group rate for a period of four (4) weeks until he reaches his new group rate. For an employee promoted from a group 1 to a group 3 job would, for example, be paid the group 1 rate for four (4)weeks, then the group 2 rate for four (4)weeks and then the standard rate of his new job. However, an employee who has previously held the new job classification through the job posting procedure shall receive the standard rate for the new job upon transfer provided the employee is qualified to perform the job without training.
(d)	An employee who, through the job posting procedure, takes a job classification that is in a labour group lower than his present labour group, will be paid the appropriate rate of the new job immediately upon commencing work in the position.
(e)	A probationary employee will be paid $0.25 below the group 1 rate for the length of his probationary period. Progression after that date will be the same as it would be for a permanent employee if the new employee holds a job above group 1. This will not be the case if the new employee holds a license that is required for his
66
job. Employees such as skilled trades who are newly hired will be paid $0.25 below their appropriate rate for the length cf their probationary period.
19.03	TRAINING PREMIUM
(a)	A training premium of forty-five cents ($0.45) per hour for a minimum of four hours will be paid to any employee selected to train a new employee for all hours during which the employee is directly engaged in the initial training activity approved by supervision.
(b)	Training premiums are payable only to employees specifically requested to train and are not payable in cases where training is part of the normal job requirement.
19.04	WORKERS'COMPENSATION/WEEKLY INDEMNITY
For employees on Workers' Compensation or Weekly Indemnity,the Company agrees to advance if requested by the employee, and provided the administrative procedure is followed, benefits equivalent to those that would be received from the Workers' Compensation Board, or under the Weekly Indemnity Plan, until the benefits are received by the employee at which time the Company will be reimbursed by the employee. It is also understood that if the claim is not approved by the insurer the employee will reimburse the Company for any advances or overpayments.
67
In order to qualify for this benefit, an employee must have at least two (2) years of seniority.
19.05	STATIONARY ENGINEERS
It is understood that the operators of the Boilers and related equipment may work abnormal schedules.
For the "Winter Schedule" coverage is for the entire seven days in a week. Currently, operators work an average of 42 hours per week in a 4 week cycle. Forthis schedule, overtime will be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 '/>) times the regular hourly rate for the hours worked over an average of 40 per week during the cycle.
For the "Summer Schedule" which is normally a five day 40 hour schedule, overtime will be as per Article 13.04 and 13.05.
19.06 SHIFT LEADERS
Employees designated by the Company to temporarily work as a Shift Leader in charge of a departmental shift, in the absence of a Supervisor, shall be paid a premium of two dollars (52.00) per hour above his regular rate.
It is understood that the Company shall have the right to make the selection based on ability giving due regard to seniority of employees who have expressed an interest. The Company may from time to time designate alternate Shift Leaders in order to give other interested employees an opportunity to demonstrate their ability.
68
No Shift Leader shall be directly involved in the discipline of an employee in his charge.
All employees who are required to do shift leader work according to their job description will be trained in all aspects of the shift leaders job.
ARTICLE 20 - GENERAL
20.01	RECREATION COMMITTEE
The Union will elect or appoint and the Company will recognize two members to serve on the Recreation Committee.
20.02	PENSION/ BENEFITS
The Company agrees to keep the pension and benefits in force for the life of this Agreement. Those programs are detailed in booklets which are available to all employees. Each employee will be advised of the annual pension contribution and the amount of pension contributions accumulated to date at the end of each year.
The weekly indemnity plan will be registered with the Employment Insurance Commission in accordance with the Unemployment InsuranceAct and any reduction paid in accordance with this Act will belong entirely to the Company in view of the other advantages awarded.
20.03	TOOL ALLOWANCE
The Company agrees to provide a tool allowance for tradesmen and fixers on a proratedyearly bases provided
69
such tools are purchased through the Company stores and are tools required for their job. Tools may be purchased as needed during the year and the value, at Company cost, will be deducted from the following allowances:
Mechanics Electricians Pipe Fitters
Technicians/Technical Specialist Fixers/Textile Fixers/Fixer Lead hand Asst. Overhaulers/Mechanic II /Maintenance Helper Carpenters Overhaulers General Repairer
$160 $110 $110 $160 $ 90
$ 90 $110 $110 $ 75
It is understood that an employee in the above classifications will own his tools and if said employee ceases employment, then the tools are his to remove.
The unused portion of the tool allowance will be paid out at the end of each calendar year.
ARTICLE 21 - DURATION
21.01 EXPIRATION DATE
This Agreement comes into effect gnJNoyembeifLJ996 and shall remain in effecLuntil June 30, 2000__at which time it shall automatically be subject to renewal year to year thereafter unless either party requests the negotiations of a new Agreement by giving written notice to the other party not less than sixty (60) calendar days
70
and not more than ninety (90) calendar days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement or any renewal date thereafter.
In Witness Whereof, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed this /^day of
1997.	<3
FORTHE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
D. Reid	G. Murray
D. Perry	D. McClellan
M. Dickey	L. Turnbull
C. Burns
T. Bennicke
A. W. Burden
L. Stuart
F. Ingraham
71
WAGE SCHEDULE
APPENDIX "A"
DEPARTMENT: YARN MILL
Job Classification Cleaner Reeler Blender
Service Operator - Yarn Heat Set Winder Spinner Operator Twister Operator Baler Blender Card Draw Operator Yarn Operator - C/S/B Autoclave Operator Yarn Operator - T/R/S Twist/Set Operator Senior Reeler Process Technician Twist/Reel Operator I Blending Leader Card/Spin Operator I Roll Shop Operator Lift Truck Operator I Q.C./Forklift Operator Garnetter Yarn Mill Leader Yarn Inventory Controller Fixer
Assistant Overhauler Textile Fixer Overhauler Technician - Yarn
Group
Level	Nov.1/96	Nov. 1/97
1	10.03	10.18
1	10.03	10.18
1	10.03	10.18
1	10.03	10.18
1	10.03	10.18
2	10.24	10.39
2	10.24	10.39
2	10.24	10.39
2	10.24	10.39
3	10.42	10.58
3	10.42	10.58
3	10.42	10.58
3	10.42	10.58
3	10.42	10.58
4	10.64	10.80
5	10.88	11.04
5	10.88	11.04
5	10.88	11.04
6	11.08	11.25
6	11.08	11.25
6	11.08	11.25
6	11.08	11.25
6	11.08	11.25
6	11.08	11.25
7	11.35	11.52
8	12.20	12.38
8	12.90	13.09
8	13.30	13.50
8	15.43	15.66
72
Nov.1/98
10.38
10.38
10.38
10.38
10.38 10.60 10.60 10.60 10.60
10.79
10.79
10.79
10.79
10.79 11.02 11.26 11.26 11.26
11.48
11.48
11.48
11.48
11.48
11.48 11.75 12.63 13.35 13.77 15.97
WAGE SCHEDULE
APPENDIX "A"
DEPARTMENT: CARPET MANUFACTURING
Job Classification Creeler Winder
Service Operator Burler
Loom Service Operator Creeler ■ Weaving Tufting Operator Yarn Inspector Winding Service Op. Examiner Senior Creeler- Tufting Beamer/Tufter Operator Weaver Burling Leader Beamer Operator - Weaving Yarn Inventory Controller Sample Machine Operator Weaver I Senior Weaver Senior Operator -Tufting Lift Truck Operator I General Repairer P.D, Sample Developer Fixer - Weaving Fixer - Tufting Winding Leader Off Loom Inspector Textile Fixer - Tufting Textile Fixer - Weaving Overhauler
Group
Level	Nov,1/93 Nov. 1/97
1	10,03	10.18
1	10.03	10.18
2	10.24	10.39
2	10.24	10.39
2	10.24	10.39
2	10,24	10.39
3	10.42	10.58
3	10.42	10.58
3	10.42	10.58
4	10.64	10.80
4	10.64	10.80
4	10.64	10.80
4	10.64	10.80
5	10.88	11.04
6	11.08	11,25
6	11.08	11.25
6	11.08	11.25
6	11.08	11.25
6	11.08	11.25
6	11.08	11.25
6	11.08	11.25
7	11.35	11,52
7	11.35	11.52
7	11.35	11.52
8	11.59	11.76
8	12.39	12,58
8	12.90	13.09
8	12,90	13.09
8	13.30	13.50
Nov,1/93
10.38
10.38 10.60 10.60 10.60 10.60
10.79
10.79
10.79 11,02 11.02 11.02 11.02 11.26
11.48
11.48
11.48
11.48
11.48
11.48
11.48
11.75
11.75
11.75 12.00 12.83
13.35
13.35 13.77
73
Trainer	8
Fixer - Lead hand	8
Technician -Weaving	8
Technician - Tufting	8
Technical Specialist ■ Weaving 8
13.58	13.78
15.18	15.41
15.43	15.66
15.43	15.66
19.62	19.91
74
14.06
15.72
15.97
15.97 20.31
WAGE SCHEDULE
APPENDIX "A
DEPARTMENT: DYEHOUSE Group
Job Classification	Level
Service Operator - Dyehouse	1
Dye Machine Operator	4
Dye Weigher	6
Lab Tech. I - Dyehouse	6
Lift Truck Operator I	6
Senior Dye Weigher	7
NoV.1/96 Nnu 1/97
10,03 TO. 18 10,64	10,80
11.08	11.25
11.08	11.25
11.08	11,25
11,35	11,52
DEPARTMENT: FINISHING
Service Operator - Finishing Mat Finisher Latex Floor Operator Blade Operator Cut Roll-up Operator Lift/Wrap Operator Utility Operator Relief Operator Mender/lnspector Assistant Inspector Shear Operator Final Inspector Compound Operator Latex Operator II Dryer Operator I Backcoat Operator Latex Operator I Dryer Leader
1	10,03	10.18
2	10,24	10,39
3	10,42	10,58
3	10,42	10,58
4	10,64	10,80
4	10,64	10.80
4	10,64	10,80
5	10,88	11,04
5	10.88	11,04
5	10,88	11.04
6	11.08	11,25
6	11,08	11,25
6	11.08	11,25
6	11.08	11,25
6	11,08	11,25
6	11,08	11,25
7	11.35	11,52
8	11.58	11,75
75
Nov.1/9B
10.38
11.02
11.48
11.48
11.48 11.75
10.38
10,60
10.79
10.79 11.02 11.02 11,02 11.26 11.26 11,26
11.48
11.48
11.48
11.48
11.48
11.48 11,75 11,99
WAGE SCHEDULE
APPENDIX “A’
DEPARTMENT: NATIONAL SERVICE CENTRE
Job Classification Service Operator Wrapper Operator Inventory Checker Computer/Filing Clerk Finish Cut Handler Lift Truck Operator I Receiver
Shipper/Receiver
Group
I aval	Nov.1/96	Nov. 1/97
1	10.03	10.18
2	10.24	10.39
3	10.42	10,58
5	10.88	11.04
6	11.08	11.25
6	11.08	11.25
7	11.35	11.52
8	12.53	12.72
Nov.1/98 10.38 10.60 10,79 11.26
11.48
11.48 11.75 12.97
DEPARTMENT: SAMPLE
Sample Operator	3
Iventory Operator	4
Material Handler II	4
Rug Finisher Helper	4
Computer/Filing Clerk	5
Sample Leader	5
Rug Finisher	5
10.42	10.58	10,79
10.64	10.80	11.02
10.64	10.80	11.02
10.64	10.80	11.02
10.88	11.04	11.26
10.88	11.04	11.26
10.88	11.04	11.26
DEPARTMENT: QUALITY CONTROL
Hand Sample Maker	2
Process Technician	4
Q.P.C. Tech. I	5
P.D. Technician	5
10.24	10.39	10.60
10.64	10.80	11.02
10.88	11.04	11.26
10.88	11.04	11.26
76
WAGE SCHEDULE
APPENDIX "A"
DEPARTMENT: MAINTENANCE
Job Classification General Labourer Janitor-
Maintenance Helper -'ixer
Stores Attendant Stationary Eng. IV Textile Fixer Stationary Eng. Ill oteam/Pipefitter Carpenter Machinist
ndustrial Mechanic Electrician Stationary Eng. II Shief Stationary Eng, I
Group
Ip'ipI	Nov.1/96	Nov. 1/97
1	10.03	10,18
1	10.03	10,18
4	10.64	10.80
7	11,35	11.52
8	11,56	11.73
8	12,69	12,88
8	12.90	13,09
8	13,76	13,97
8	15,27	15,50
8	15,27	15,50
8	15,27	15.50
8	15,27	15,50
8	15,27	15,50
8	15,27	15.50
8	18,84	19,12
Nov. 1/98
10.38
10.38 11,02 11,75 11,97 13,14 13.35 14,25
15.81
15.81
15.81
15.81
15.81
15.81 19.50
'JOTE:	Stationary Engineer with 2nd Class Refrigeration
(-$1,00.
77
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA1
Local 4612 CAW
Date
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the Agreement reached during negotiatic that employees in the job classification of Fixer shall, up obtaining and presenting a qualification certificate of seco year Millwright, be reclassified to Textile Fixer j classification and paid the applicable job rate,
Yours very truly,
Crossley Carpet Mills Limited Director, Human Resources
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOA2
Local 4612	July 23, 1997
CAW
Dear Sirs
1.	Benefit Plan
Commencing November 1,1997 participating employees shall pay the current rate ($46.75 family). All premium increases are to be cost shared 50/50 for the remaining agreement term.
2.	Paid Education Leave
Employer (Company) to pay to the Union by cheque, the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000) following signing of the collective agreement toward the fund.
3.	Outstanding Grievances
All grievances dated prior to December 31,1996 are to be disposed of in the grievor's favour by the employer (Company).
The grievances so disposed cf shall not be used or referred to by either party to this agreement in the future and shall be considered never to have existed.
4.	Collective Agreement Negotiations
This will confirm the agreement reached during
79
negotiations that to avoid delay in reaching the next Collective Agreement, negotiations will commence 60 days before the present contract expires.
5.	Pension Committee
The Company and the Union agree to establish a committee, before December 31, 1997, to develop a recommendation to the Company on revisions to the present pension plan. Should the parties fail to agree, by December 31, 1997, on a recommendation either party can apply for Arbitration. The Arbitrator will make a recommendation based on the presentations made by both parties.
6.	Benefits Program
This will confirm agreement reached in negotiations that the Benefits Programs are compulsory unless an employee already has health and dental insurance coverage.
7.	Computer/Filing Clerk Sample Dept and National Service Centre
When the present incumbent in the Sample Dept. vacates the position the new incumbent, along with the incumbent in the National Service Centre, will be expected to fill in for each other when required.
8.	Wage Rate Changes
The following wage rate changes are to take effect at the signing and not retroactive to November 1, 1996.
80
Sample Dept. Maintenance Dept.
Computer/Filing Clerk From	10.42	To
Steam/Pipefitter From	14.91	To
Carpenter
From	14,91	To
Machinist
From	14.91	To
Industrial Mechanic From	14.91	To
Electrician
From	14,91	To
10.87
15.27
15.27
15.27
15.27
15.27
The following wage rate change took effect April 20, 1997 and is not retroactive to November 1, 1996.
Carpet Manufacturing Technical Specialist/Weaving
From 16.55 To 19.23
Representing the Union Representing the Company
CT Reid	G. Murray
D. Perry	D. McClellan
Dickey	L. Turnbull
C. Burns T, dennicke A. W. Burden L. Stuart F Ingraham
81