Agreement
between
HARDING CARPETS
(Collmgwood)
and the
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING TEXTILE WORKERS
Union, Local 1857
PLANT RULES AND REGULATIONS
00876 (05)
January I, lv94
INDEX
PART 1 - AGREEMENT
Article.
2
3
4
5
6 7 a
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
Page
General Purpose.........................................4
Union Recognition........................................4
Reservation of Management Ri^its.........................4
Union Security Check QEE................................5
Strikes and Lockouts....................................6
UnionEnecutive Committee.................................6
Stewards................................................8
Grievance Procedures....................................9
Discharge...........................................10
Arbitration............................................11
Seniority ............................................ 12
Promotions to Supervisory Positions.................14
Leave of Absence....................................14
Termination of Employment...........................15
Job Postings.......................................... 16
Transfer............................................. .17
Lay-Off............................................... 18
Recall................................................ 21
Hours of Work........................................ .22
Overtime............................................. -25
Shift premium .........................................26
Statutory Hobdays.................................... -26
Vacation with pay.................................... .27
Reporting Allowance................................... 28
Report-in Following Illness....................... .28
Emergency Call-in Pay............................. .29
Jury Duty...........................................29
Tool Allowance......................................29
Fist Aid Attendants............................... .29
Employees Injured...................................... 29
Wages................................................. .30
23
24
25
26
27
28 29
Group Insurance.......
Pension Plan..........
Bereavement Pay.......
Bulletin Boards.......
Health and Safety.....
Company Regulations Termination Clause....
35
37 .37.
38
38
39 .39
PART II
Employees’ Guide.........
Pay......................
Tune Clock Information
Smoking Privileges......
Plant Rules.............
Safety Rules............
Fir* Protection.........
41
41
.41
41
41
.44
46
2
PART I
This Agreement made and entered into as of 1st day ofJanuary,1994
By and between:
HARDING CARPETS. COLUNGWOOD, ONTARIO
Hereinafter designated as the “Company"
-and-
Amalgamated Clothing Textile Workers Union, Local 1857,
Hereinafter designated as the "Union"
3
Article 1
GENERAL PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to provide for the general welfare of the Company and its employees, to further promote and improve the good relations existing between the parties in a spirit of good will, tolerance and understanding.
Article 2
UNION RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the sole exclusive bargaining agency for its employees save and except: fixer-assistant foremen, persons above that rark, industrial nurse, office staff, and security guards.
2.02	Where the masculine pronoun is used herein, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context applies.
Article 3
RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive right and
function of the Company to:
a)	Hjrr, retire.direct-.rjAKifY,,transfer-,lay-off, recall.
promote, reprimand, discharge, demote, and geoerally to discipline employees subject to the Grievance Procedure as herein provided.
b)	Detennine, fix, alter, make studies of and institute changes in tasks, work assignments,job duties, job qualifications, work loads, job classifications, quality and quantity standards; to select and retain employees for positions excluded from the Bargaining Unit and to transfer employees into tie Bargaining Unit: the Company agrees to exercise the above rights in a reasonable manner.
c)	Plan, direct, control, manage, operate, extend, curtail, limit
and discontinue the Industrial Enterprise in which the Company is engaged and, without restricting the generality of the [ocegaisg	(b), uni ttetsTf.ii.fc all products
to be manufactured, all methods and processes of manufac-
4
schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, the engineering and designing of its products and the control of materials and parts incorporated in the products produced.
3.02	It is agreed that all the functions not referred to or limited by this Agreement shall be considered residual to 3,01. The Company agrees to exercise these fimction* fairly in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
3.03	The Company agrees to discuss with the Union Executive, matters of mutual concern which may arise, for the purpose of better communications.
3.04	No production supervisor shall do work normally done ty a Bargaining Unit employee so as to replace an employee, except to instruct a worker in their duties, to assist a worker in doing experimental work on production equipment or to provide emergency relief
Article 4
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK OFF
4.01	The parties	present employees subject to
this Agreement except new employees during their four hundred (400) hour probationary period, shall become and remain members of the Union in good standing
4.02	New employees shah make application for membership in the Union at the time of their hiring, and shah become and remain members of the Union in good standing by the time their probationary period has been served.
4.03	The obligation of the Company to dismiss employees who fail to remain members in good standing shall arise only if the Union furnishes evidence that the employee’s connection with the Union has been terminated for reasons which are just and equitable.
4.04	The bona tides of the action under this clause may be subject to review through the grievance procedure and arbitration, if necessary, having due regard to the fact that in ary event the Company is obligated to deduct Union dues from all eligible employees for the duration of this Agreement.
4.05	The Company agrees that it will, for the full period of the AgreemaU, provide for the collection of the Local’s initiation fee during the probationary period of all employees and deduct weekly from the earnings of all eligible employees, including new employs** upon completion of their probationary period, union due*, not to include fines or special assessments, etc. and to remit the money so deducted to the prson designated by the Union whose receipt shall be considered as a discharge to Harding ets for the amount so deducted. The first deduction of ues from new employees shall be consideredthe Initiation Fee.
Article 5
STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
5.01	Whereas this Agreement provides for the just settlement, by Arbitration if necessary, of disputes which may arise between the parties hereto, it is therefore agreed that during the life of this Agreement or while Negotiations for its Amendments or Renewal are in progress, subject to the terms and conditions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act, there shall be no Strike, Slow Down, Stoppage of Work, or other interference with production ty the employees hereby covered and the Company will not cause or direct ary Lock Out of its employees.
Article S
UNION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
6.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select from amongst the Executive Committee of the Local, not more than five (5) members who would act on behalf of the Union in meeting with the Company with respect to any matter pertaining to this Contract which properly arises from time to time during the life of this Agreement The said Company will co-operate in the administration of this Agreement
6
6.02	It is agreed that no more than one (1) member of the Union Executive Committee will absent themselves from any one (I) Seniority Group at the same time when thfy are employed on the same shift for the purpose of negotiating with the Company if it would unduly affect maintaining nonnal production.
In each instance, permission of the. immediate supervisor will be obtained before leaving work assignment or taking time off for Union business, and such permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
6.03	When discussing grievance beyond Step 1 of the Grievance Procedure, three (3) members of the Union Executive Committee designated by the Union shall meet with designated representatives of the Company if the depertineut involved in the grievance is represented on the Committee If it is not. the Steward may then be called in with the Committee
6.04	The Union acknowledges that Stewards and Union Officer* will continue to perform their regular duties on behalf of the Company and they will not leave their regular duties without arranging the matter with their Foreman; that they will not be absent from their work unreasonably in order to deal with grievances of employees or with other Union business, and when resuming their regular duties they will report to their Foreman or Supervisor. In accordance with this understanding the Company will compensate such employee* for time spent in handling grievances of employees, attending meetings of the Union Executive Committee with the management, at their regular rate af pay. and that this does not apply to time spent on such matters outside of working hours. However, the company shall cease to condensate employees for time spent in negotiations (not including time spent in proce**ing grievances or arbitration) when an aggregate of three hundred and forty (340) hours of negotiating time has elapsed.
*6.05 It is agreed from the Union Executive Committee, the president and Vice-president, shall be considered to have acquired seniority rights as a result of holding said office.
Such additional seniority rights will apply only in the case of lay-off at which time any of the aforementioned who are affected by lay-off, and unable to retain a position through the normal lay-off procedure, will displace the most junior
employee on the Plant-Wide Seniority list, where they h«»» the ability to perform the work required.
The Union will inform the Company in writing which two (2) Union members hold the positions entitled to the additional Plant-Wide Seniority right*. Such seniority rights are not transferable.
*6.06 The company will grant a leave of absence without pay to the delegated union members to attend union conventions or conferences provided it does not limit the company in any way in the exercising of the regular and customary functions of management.
Article 7 STEWARDS
7.01	Hie Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select Stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to the representatives of the Company. Employees, to be eligible to serve as Stewards, mst have completed their probationary period with the Company.
7.02	There shall be one (1) Steward for the employees of each section and shift listed below:
1	Dyehouse and Blending
2	Carding
3	Spinning
4	Twisting
5	Reeling, Winding, Backwinding, Autoclaving
6	Yam Mechanical/Maintenance
7	Tufting
g Material Handling
9	Quality Control
10	Maintenance
7.03	The Union shah supply the Company with the names of the employees constituting the Union Executive Committee and Shift Stewards and shall infonn the Company promptly of any changes which may occur. The Company shall recognize only those employees so listed.
a
7.04	If one particular shift in any department is temporarily without a Steward, the Steward of either of the other two shifts or a designated member of the Executive Committee shall be the recognized Union Representativefor the department.
Article 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
*8.01 Should any difference arise between the Company and the Union or its members employed by the Company, as to the meaning anddirection-ofmfjaraykion*oIlhi^AamemenLor
any legislation labour law within the province of Ontario all such differences shall be taken up and disposed of in the procedure* to follow:
It is also agreed to ly both parties that under no circumstances shall an employee consider that he has a grievance until he ha* first given his Foreman an opportunity of dealing with the complaint or other matters which may be the source of the grievance.
The employee will be accompanied by his Steward if he desires such assistance. The decision of the Foreman shag be made within two (2) working days
step | If the Foreman fails to settle the grievance satisfactorily, the. Steward shall within live (5) working days of the incident, rata 0» grievance ti writtv m forms to be supplied by the Union. The Steward shall present the copies of the grievance to the Foreman for hi written disposition, which will be given within two (2) working days.
Step2 Failing settlement with the Foreman, the aggrieved employee and his Steward or the Chairman of the Union Executive Committee shall discuss the matter with the Superintendent or his delegated representative within three (3) wcrldng days, and endeavour to effect a settlement. The decision of the Superintendent, or his representative, shall be made, in writing not later than three (3) working days after the meeting.
Step 3 AH grievance not settled A Step 2 shag be taken up between tho Chairman nf the Union F-Terartive C‘.«wwmttt»c_M_fifPcer of
the Union and the Plant Manager and/or a designated represea-
9
tative ofthe Company within five (5) working days ofthe decision given in Sup 2. The Union representative may be included if desired by either party. The decision of the Company shall be given in writing within five (5) working days following the date of the meeting, If the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of both parties, then at the request of either party to the Agreement, the grievance may be referred to Arbitration.
8.02	If the Company or the Union has a policy grievance, such grievance may be filed at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure. A policy grievance, is defined as and limited to, one which alleges aa actual violation of a specific provision of this Agreement
and which could not otherwise be resolved at a lower step of the Grievance Procedure because of the nature and scope of the grievance.
8.03	All decisions arrived at ty agreement between the Company and the Union shah be binding upon the Company, the Union and the employees.
8.04	Any and all time limits in the Grievance procedure may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties hereto. However, unless otherwise mutually agreed, a grievance will be deemed to have been abandoned if the Union fails to process a grievance from one step to another within the time Units outlined above or if the Union fails to request arbitration within fourteen (14) days of the date of the decisiongiven at Step 3.
DISCHARGE
8.03	A claim by an employee who has acquired seniority rights that he has been discharged withoutjust cause, will be treated as a grievance if a written statement of the grievance is lodged with the Management within five (5) working days after the employe® ceases to work for the Company. A discharged person may interview his Union Steward for a reasonable period of time, if he so requests, before leaving the Company's premises. The preliminary steps of the Grievance Procedure shall be eliminated in such cases, and discussion of the griev-aaee sthaV commence h^Axe? i’ot me Grievance Procedure. Such grievance may be revived by Confirming the Company's
10
action in discharging the employee, or by reinstating the employee with Ml compensation for thus lost, less any monies earned elsewhere^ or by any other arrangement which is considered just and equitable in the opinion of the parties.
‘Note* In all cases of termination, a letter will be given to the employee. In cases of where the employee is outside the plant a registered letter will be sent to the last address on record with, the personnel department. The registered letter will be deemed to have been received two (2) working days after the date of registration and a copy will be sent to the union.
8.06 At any stage of the Grievance Procedure, including Arbitration. the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned, and any necessary witnesses and relevant records, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to' the plant to view disputed operations and confer with the necessary witnesses.
•8.07 The record of any disciplinary action shall not be referred to or used against an employee ary time after three (3) years following such action, except of the cases of other than mild &—-
Artlcla 9 ARBITRATION
9.01 When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to Arbitration, they shah make such request in writing, addressed to the other party to this Agreement. Should the parties fail to agree on an Arbitrator within ten (10) days, they shall then request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario, to assist them in selecting an impartial chairman. If an agreement is not reached on an impartial chainnan within a further ten (10) days, then the Minister of Labour for the Province shall be requested to appoint a chairman who shall be a resident of the Province of Ontario.
In the. event of default by either party in nominating its representative to the Arbitration Board, the other party may apply to the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario who shall have power to effect such nominations.
11
9.02>- ' No*j>trson iinayi:be appointed as: ^Arbitrator, who has been i ju oi:; ^involved in an;attemptto negotiate tor seniortha-grievance.
9.0i 1	Of the
Arbitrator appointed by lfand the parties will jointly bear the ■	expenses bftbe chairman of theArbtaalionBoard, if any. ‘ ■'
9.04	’ No matter mayb'esub mitteri to Arbitration which has not been
; , prt^rty.c^iedt^ou^all^	of the Grievance
,	Procedure,'’, *	'
9.05	The ArbitratiotvBeHid-sHail not be-- authori2ed to make any decision inconsistent with theprovisions of the Agreement nor
" ' 4b modify or amend any part of this Agreement, not to 'dbal%ftK.any mkternot'coyered by this ApedrnehL'
9.06	The proceedings of the Arbitration.'Beard will bo expedited by the parties heqigpv asd. the decision of the Chairman of such
. Boantwiil be final and jDindin&upanthe parties hereto.
9.07 Any and all time limits referred to ii&&lie Grievance and ' Arbitration Procedures herein, may at ady tirnebe extended by
written agreement between the Company and Hie Union or their representatives; ..I	.	.	.	■ ,
Artlcla-10
SENIORITY
10.01 .The principle.of seniority based .on length of ooerinuous scrota. .v; ..vjce.wtth theoGompany twill be recogninedrvith .respect to employees covered by thisAgreerne»UsubjeebtO’ the following provision outlined i n 10.02 and 10.03-.-;
DEPARTMENTAL SENWRiTy1;
10.02-
- (a) An employee acquires departmental seniority-rights after
serving a period of four hundred (4Q0)hours worked in one
(1)	department within a period of five <5) mouths firm his . original date of hire, ti- .- .-.m -0.., ?c; : w:
• • .1 odt '■ no.tc '. ~ t	r.oti jvi, jvra
12
(b)	If a probationary employee is laid off prior to acquiring hU Departmental Seniority rights and if he is recalled and mur mulates the balance of his four hundred (400) hours worked within the period of that recall, or any subsequent recall within that initial five (5) month period of hire, then his seniority dabs will be hii original date of hire.
If a probationary employee fails to accumulate his four hundred (400) hours as outlined above, then a new five (5) month period is to be established based on the last date of recall and the seniority date will be the date of last recall.
(c)	The positioning of an employee on a Departmental Seniority List shall be according to the length of service in the department in which they are employed or in mor-dance with Article 11.02.
(d)	Separate Departmental Seniority Lists shall be established for each of the following:
(1)	The Yam Department shall include Dyehouse Reeling
Blending Winding
Carding Autoclaving
Spinning Yam Mechanical/Maintenance
Twisting
(2)	The	Tufting Department
(3)	The	Spinning Department
(4)	The	Quality Control Department
(5)	TheMaintenanceDepartment
PLANT WIDE SENIORITY
10.03	(a) An employee acquires Plant-Wide Seniority rights after serving a period of four hundred (400) hours worked for the company.
(b)	If a probationary employee is laid off prior to acquiring his plant-Wide Seniority rights and if he is recalled, and accumulates the balance of his 400 hours worked within the period of that recall or any subsequent recall within that initial S month period of hire at which time his seniority date will be the original date of hire.
13
positioning of an employee on a plant-Wide Seniority List will be according to their Plant-Wide Seniority date.
*10.04 Seniority Lists shall be kept up to date by quarterly revisions. Copies of the Utt» will be furnithid to the Union and will be posted on the appropriate bulletin boards. The seniority listings of employees shall be final except where accuracy is deputed and the individual employee lodges a written protest with his Foreman. There shall be no retroactivity in records to this clause
PROMOTIONS TO SUPERVISORY POSITIONS
10.05 Promotion to supervisory positions will not be subject to the provisions of the agreement. However, employees returning to the bargaining unit who have transferred out of the bargaining unit will retain and be credited wrfh only that seniority accumulated while in a position with the bargaining unit These employees exercise their seniority rights ty being placed on their previous departmental seniority list, and will displace the most junior employee in their previous job classification. Failing placement, they will be placed on the plant wide seniority h± and will displace only the most junior employee according to the plant wide seniority.
It is agreed that for thirty (30) calendar days from the date of their return to the bargaining unit, employees will not be considered forjob posting unless there are no other applicants. Upon expiration of the thirty (30) day time period, said employees may make full use of their accredited seniority rights.
‘Note; Any employee transferred from the bargaining unit to a salaried position will not be eligible for re: transfer back to the bargaining unit after a two (2) year period.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
*10.06 An employee’s continuity of service shall not be deemed to have b«n broken under tne following conditions:
(a)	By an absence caused by illness or accident verified by a doctor, except as outlined in clause 10.08 (g).
14
(b)	By any absence granted by Management in writing.
(c)	By the absence caused by pregnancy, paternity leave and the unemployment insurance act under the Employment Standards Act and its amendments thereto.
Time extension for pregnancy leave beyond that specified in the Employment Standards Act. and the conditions and terms pursuant to such extension, may be granted by Management after full consideration of each request.
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
10.C7 Employment is terminated when:
(a)	An employee is dismissed and not reinstated.
(b)	An employee quits.
(c)	An employee is absent twenty-four (24) consecutive working hours without notifying their immediate Supervisor, Superintendent or Human Resources Department and providing an acceptable reason to the Company for such absence unless such absence is later justified by illness verified by a Doctor’s Certificate.
(d)	An employee has been laid off and fails to report for work within five (5) working days after receiving notice of recall, unless prevented from doing so by reasonable cause.
Receiving notice of recall means notification in Writing by registered mail to the last address on record with the Company, if unable to contact the employee in any other way. It is the employee’s responsibility to keep the Company informed of any change of address.
(e)	An employee has been laid off according to the following
schedule:
Plant Seniority Credit Up to 1 year "
Over I year and up to 2 years Over 2 years service
Term of Lay-Off

Equivalent of Seniority
1	year
2	years
15
(!) An employee retires or is retired in accordance with the Company’s retirement policy.
(g)An employee has exhausted his twenty-six (26) week Weekly Indemnity claim for sick benefit, unless the employee provides a medical certificate stating their continued disability, in which case their name will be carried a the Plant-Wide Recall List for an additional six (6) month period from date of exhaustion of benefits. If declared medically fit within the above stated period. the employee may return to their own permanentj ob or to a j o b where the employee has four hundred (400) hours worked upon one (1) week advance notice to the Company.
Article 11
JOB POSTINGS
*11.01 If a permanent job vacancy occurs, the following procedure will apply, permanent jobs are defined as classification and shift for the purpose of posting only:
(a)	Notice of permanent vacancies covered ly this Agreement will be posted cn the Bulletin Board. For a period of time to allow all shifts to see it, a period of forty-eight (48) hours for a three (3) shift operation, and twenty-four (24) hours for a four(4) shift operation. Notice of successful applicants wrilWptkwtfaa the Bulletin Board.
(§>)Senlority shall govern the selection of individuals when in the judgement of Management, ability, related to the requirements of the specificjob are approximately equal. If a dispute arises concerning selection, the past work records of the candidates shall also be considered.
(c)It is understood that new hires will be restricted fromjob postings for six (6) months from date of hire, employees applying from within the department will be limited to one (1) such opportunity every six (6) months and employees applying from other departments will be limited to one (1) such opportunity per year.
16
(d)	Employees obtaining a job posting as a Yarn Mechanic will complete a training period of two thousand (2,000) hours worked. Upon successful completion of the required training period, the employees will be paid the Yam Mechanic rate.
11.02	Employees obtaining a job posting or transfer to another department will have their Department Seniority transferred to that department upon completion of four hundred (400) hours worked in that classification.
*lt.03 (a)If during the four hundred (400) hour training period an employee fails to perform the new job to the satisfaction of the Company, the affected employee may exercise his layoff rights under 13.02 (b), except, shift preference shall not apply.
(b)If au employee fails to accumulate four hundred (400) hours worked on ajob posting within six (6) menths intheir own department or within one (1) year outside their department, they will loae their job posting or hours worked. However hours accumulrted on a temporary posting shall remain on record.
*11.04 Employees who may be held back from a posting will have such time included in their four hundred (400 in the new classification. The above time shall not go beyond two (2) weeks.
Article 12
TRANSFER
**1201 An employee on temporary transfer will receive his own rate for the balance of that shift and thereafter will be paid the rate for thejob to which he has been transferred, if the transfer is to provide work in lieu of layoff. If the employee is temporally transferred for the convenience of the company then the employee will be paid the higher of the two rates for the balance of that shift and thereafter. *
*12.02 Temporary transfers will be handled through the job posting procedures if the temporary vacancy is for a period of two weeks a more duration.
17
*12.03 The above procedure will only apply to postings of the fust temporary vacancy. Any secondary vacancy which may occur will be filled by a capable employee.
* 12.04 Upon completion of the temporary transfer the employee shall return to the classification, department and shift held to priorto transfer.
Attic!* 13 LAY-OFF
*13.01 The Company will give an employee notice of his/her lay-off before the employee goes off duty on the working day prior to the last full working day. This provision will not apply with respect to the following:
0)Probationary employees.
(2) Lay-off resulting from matters beyond the Company’s control including, but not limited to ftre, lightning, flood, tempest, power failure, machine breakdown and work stoppage.
*13.02 Where it is necessary to reduce the working force of employees in a department, they will be laid off in accordance with their Departmental Seniority position providing it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work that is available. ‘The working force in the department will be adjusted on a shift basis only until the fust work day of the following work week, (shift employee has been assigned tj, when it will again be adjusted on the following basis:
(a)	Probationary and temporarily employees will be laid off first
(b)	Seniority rights at time of lay-off will be exercised in the following sequential order; 13.02 (b) (1): 13.02 (b) (2):
13.02	(e* 13,02 (d).
Employees within the affectedjob classification will exercise, first, their Departmental Senionty by:
18
(l)Displacing the employee with the least Departmental Seniority in the. employee's pennanentjob classification or bumping within the department to a job classification in which the employee has previously completed our hundred (400) hours worked and replace the employee in that classification having the least Department Seniority on the Same shift
*(2) Failing an opportunity to qualify under (1) above, employees may exercise their Departmental Seniority by bumping the most junior employee in the following classifications;
For Material
F a Yarn List	For Tufting List	Handling
Gan. Labour	Gen. Labour	Gen, Labour
Material Mover Creeler Blender
Note:
Employees wishing to exercise their departmental rights in accordance with 13.02 (b) (2), must inform their Supervisor within twenty-four (24) hours of notification of lay-off, so that necessa^ changes can ,be completed without delay. Enftloyees exercising their seniority rights into these classifications must be able to do the completejob efficiently in the opinion of Management, with one (1) shift training.lt is agreed that under this right, employees cannot select their job and that placement will be at the discretion of the Company and that to be done fairly
*(c)If, after exhaustion of hisAer Departmental Seniority rights an employee fails to obtain placement- he/she may exercise their Plant-Wide Seniority rights including those employees affected by lay-off during their four hundred (400) hour Probationary Period ty returning to ajob classification in another department in which they have previously completed four hundred (400) hours worked and may displace an employee with the least Plant-Wide Seniority.
<d) If, an employee fails to attain placement ty first exhausting hisAer Departmental Seniority under 13.02 (b) (1); (2) and secondly ty exhausting hisAer Plant-Wide Seniority under
13.02	(c), the following procedure may be applicable:
19
An employee may use their Plant-Wide Seniority to replace the most junior employee in the following class! fications:
General Labour	Creeltr
Material Mover	Blender
Note:
Employees exercising their bumping rights into these classifications must be able to do the complete job efficiently in the opinion of Management, with one shift training. Should the employee be found unable to do thejob after one (1) shift training, they will be laid off.
It	sannnt Select
their job and that placement will be done at the discretion of the Company and that to be done fairly.
Note:
If an employee refuses his/her bumping rights, they will then be placed on the bottom of the recall list for the period of that lay-off or until such time as their pennanent job becomes available.
(e) The Company will then reduce the wort force by laying-off
in line with Seniority, unless in the opinion of Management it is impractical to do so, in which case the four (4) day week will go into effect This clause is not intended to guarantee that a four (4) day week will always be maintained.
In any department having a multiple machine operation with identical production machinery, where a four (4) day week has been found necessary and extends for a period of two (2) consecutive weeks, the matter will be discussed with the Executive Committee to arrange a lay-off procedure to take place no later that two (2)weeks thereafter, should production requirements not increase.
It is clearly understood that in the departments with a single machine operation such as, in Blending a four (4) day vtcek may be the only alternative available, however, in such cases where a four (4) day week extends for a period of four (4) consecutive weeks, the matter will be filly discussed with the Executive Committee and a further reduction in force may result. Where possible, the Company will attempt to find work as a result of the short work week.
20
(f) As production schedules are increased employees, will be recalled from lay-off according to seniority as provided in the Recall ftocedure. If the work week has been reduced, the work week shall be increased to five (5) days prior to the recall of employees.
13.03	Laid off employees shall have their name* transferred to the Plant-Wide available for employment list and offers ofjobs in the department! otherthan their own shall be ai provided in
Article 14-Recall.
Article 14
RECALL
*14.01 Recall Lists will be maintained for each department affected by the lay-off, and employees shall be recalled according to seniority in reverse order to the lay-off, that is, the senior employee laid off shall be the first recalled, subject to the following provisions
(a)Rrst, recall to a job classification within Us department in
which the employee has previously completed four hundred (400) hours werted.
recall to thejob classification from which the employee was kid off.
(c)	Thirdly, recall according to Plant-Wide Seniority to a job classification in which the employee has completed four hundred (400) hours waked
(d)	Fourthly, provided that the employee is physically able to perform the job, an employee shall be according to PlantWide Seniority called back to ajob classification in which they will receive the benefit of a normal training period to prove their skill and ability to do thejob. If within two (2) working days of time of recall the Company has been unable to make contact with the employee at hi last recorded address, they have the right to by-pass that employee and an employeejunior to him may be placed in Mi job. Action will then be taken under clause 10.0* (d).
21
14.02	Employees recalled to jobs other than their own permanent job, shall return to their pennanentjobs when their pennanentjobs become available. Anyone desiring to change pennanentjobs must do to throughjob posting opportunities.
14.03	If an employee isoffered a recall to ajob, the employee is physically able to perform and the recall is refused, such employee will lose recall rights for the period of the lay-off.
14.04	For the purpose of completingjob training, trainees may be held or recalled as required without consideration of seniority to complete their four hundred (400) hours training period. It is understood that trainees will peifonn work only within the job assignment of the trainer and that completion of training will not result in transfer of seniority until a subsequent recall. The Company will inform the Union in .advance of the area where training wig continue or recommence, the number of employees involved, and other relevant matters
Art !cl« 15
HOURS OF WORK
15.01	Hie normal hours of work are forty (40) hours in one (l)w«i of five (5) days, Monday through Friday as follows:
(a)	On a one or two shift operation First Shift - 6:45 am to 10:45 a.m.
1/2 hr. unpaid lunch break ..	11:15 am. to 3:15 pm.
SecoDd Shift • 3:45 p.m. to 7:15 p.m.
1/2 hr. unpaid lunch break
7:45 p.m. to ii r-K/fm.
(b)	On a three shift operation:
First Shift -7:30 am.to 3:30 p.m.
Second Shift - 3:30 p.m. to 11:30 pm Third Shift-11:30 p.m. to 7:30 am.
Employees working cn 'Three Shift Operation" will be provided a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period and two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods at a time to be arranged for each eight (8) hour thill of work. .
22
15.02	On a four shift operation:
The nonnal hours of work are thirty-six (36) hours in one (1) week of three (3) days, Monday through Saturday as follows: First Shift •
7:30 p.m. to 7:30 amt. Sunday.Monday,Tuesday.
Second Shift -
7:30 a.m. to 7:30 p jil Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.
Third Shift -
7:30 p.m. to 7:30 am.Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.
Fourth Shift -
7:30 an to 7:30 p.m. Thursday, Friday. Saturday.
(a)	Wage Rate
Will be increased to provide 39.6 hours pay for thirty-aix (36) hours worked.
(b)	Lunch Break
Two (2) twenty (20) minute paid hutch break periods eadt shift.
(c)	Rest Periods
Three (3) rest periods of seven (7) minute* plus seven (7) minutes, plus six (6) for a total of twenty (20) minutes will be provided at times to be announced ty proper departmental notice
(d)	Statutory Hot [days
Will be granted with pay to qualifying employees when they are observed during the employee's scheduled three (3) day shift.
Employeeswho qualify for statutory holiday*, ana sucu uaug-nated holiday does not Call within their scheduledthree (3) day shift will have twelve (12) hours at regular contract rale* added to their pay for the week in which the holiday is observed, without time off.
It is understood that those holidays observed between Christmas and New Years inclusive, will be paid on the basis of the 39.6 hour week, subject to eligibility and conditions as outlined in Article 18,
23
Special Note:
If a four (4) shift operation is contemplated:in any department, a minimum notice of twenty (201 "Working dSys will be given, at which time a vote will be taken A majority of 60% of eligible employee* will be required to begin operation,
Two (2) weeks prior to the end of three (3) months operation, if any iniquities or problems exist, either party, if they so desire, may serve notice of request to meet to discuss the experience gained and the advisability of condoling this ^stm If any existing problems cannot be resolved by the parties within a further three (3) month period, the system will be terminated as soon as is feasibly possible
'Note:	Upon start up or the shut 'down ,of a four (4) shift operation
seniority will be the governing factor within the classifications, the company will give a fifteen (15) day notice prior to the shut down of the above shift
15.03	For Utility Persons, the normal hours of work wig be de&rat-ed by the Company, but will not exceed fort, (40) hours m any one (1) week of seven (7) calendar days, Sunday to Saturday Overtime premium wig be paid on hours in excess of eight (8) hours pa day or forty (40) hours per calendar week, or twelve (12) hours per day in a thirty-six (36) hour week as scheduled. Double time will be paid for all hours worked on a Sunday, where Sunday is part of a weekly work schedule.
154)4 For payroll purposes, the week commences Sunday night shift The normal hours of work as outlined above shall not be considered or Interpreted as a guarantee by the Company of a specific number of hours of work pa day or days of work per week.
15.05	Boiler start-up personHel will be required to commence work
as
up to two (2) horns pri or to their nonnal shift Sunday night per schedule.
24
Article 16 OVERTIME
16.01	An employeewill be paid at the rate of time and oae-half.-of his regular hourly rate for:
(a)	All time worked in excess of the normal daily hours applicable as provided in Article 15. ■■
(b)	All time worked on Saturday unless special arrangements
have been made or unless such time is part of a regular shift as in Article 15.	. -.
(bl)Overtime does not include:
(1)	Time worked ty employees substituting for one another at their own request.
(2)	A change of an employee's working hours at their own - request •
16.02	' 'An employed will be paid at the rate of double his regular hourfy rate foe:
(a)	All hinsr -nxxttf1 jiTJ.1!* .l^a1 .tuilldr/s jjiimra'esl js paragraph 18.01 unless such time is part of a shift commencing on the day before or ending the day after the holiday. This gay is in addition 'to the pay provided under paragraph 18.01.
(b)	AH time scheduled and worked on Sunday.
16.03 The Company will be reasonable in sharing overtime among employees within- the classification who are. capable and willing to work	-.
-If a dispute arises over the application of overtime; overtime records will be made available to the Union, •' :
The Union Executive Committee will cooperate with the Company in curbing the abuse of overtime as it applies to certain employees working overtime and then subsequently talcing time off.
25
Artlcl* 17
SHIFT PREMIUM
*17.01	(a) Two and Three Shift Operations:
A Shift Premium of thirty-three (33) cents per hour shall be paid to employees working on the second shift and a Shift Premium of thirty-three (33) cents shall be paid to employee* wcrting on the third shift.
(b)	Four Shift Operation:
A Shift Premium shall be paid as follows:
(1)	Fit and Third Shift-
33 cents Iwfweee fiarifcurra'.7:Afyna. St
33 cent* between the hours of 11:30 pm St 7:30 ajn.
(2)	Second and Fourth Sift •
33 cents between the hours of 3:30 pun. & 7:30 p.m.
(c)	Shift fTemium will not be paid for hours worked which are paid for at overtime rates except for hours worked on employee’s regular shift on a Saturday or Sunday.
•18.01 The following holidays will be granted with pay to all emptoy-e a other thanprcbationary employees, provided the conditions outlined in 18.02 are met:
£ivic Floliday
The two (2) floating holidays will be taken between the Christmas andNew Year’s shutdown.
18.02	That the employee works his scheduled working days before and after the holiday unless he is absent with written permission, or due to medically certified illness of the employee or other Justifiable reason later established and found acceptable to me Company.
Article 18
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
26
To qualify for the paid holiday, the employee must have worked at some time during the seven (7) scheduled working days preceding the holiday.
18.03	In the event that a holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company, will observe such holiday on either the Friday preceding or the Monday following.
Artlcl* 19
VACATION WITH PAY
19.01 The Company, agrees to provide vacation to all.employee*. Payment will be calculated on the employees earning! of the year aiding June 30 at the .following rates:
(a)	Two (2) weeks Vacation aod four percent 04 96) of earnings
for service up to and including five (5) years.
(b)	Three (3) weeks vacation and six percent (6%)of earnings for service over five (5) yean.
(c)	Four (&weeks vacation and eight percent (8%) of earnings
for service over fourteen (14) years.
(d)	Five (5) weeks vacation and ten percent (109b) of earnings for service overtwenty-five (25) years.
•.(e)Sist (6) weeks vacation and twelve percent (12%) of earnings for service over thirty (30) years
(0 Employers entitled to more than two (2) weeks vacation will observe them as follow!:
Two (2) week! vacation i 11 be observed during .the period the
plant is idown for vacation. The-additional weeks will be granted at a time mutually agreed upon by the employee con. caned and the Company, but in any case must be taken prior to June 30 of the following year. It is understood the additional weeks will be taken so as to not adversely affect production sebedulea.
19.02	Lost time while receiving Workers' Compensation Sick Benefits, or pregnancy leave under Group Insurance shall, for the purpose of calculating vacation pay, be taken as if the employee has been paid his Ml regular rate of pay during such
absence This shall not apply to lost time m excel* of twelve (12) months
19.03	An employee who b disabled and eligible for Benefits under Workers’ Compensation, Weekly Indemnity (and pregnancy leave) during this vacation period, will be entitled to take vacation and receive their vacation pay at a later date a* mutually amngcd through bisdier Supervisor.
19.04	Maintenance employeesare required to work during plant shut down to complete maintenance duties and overhaul and repair machinery, equipment and building, and tbeir vacation scheduled will be adjusted accordingly.
Employees who are not required to work will be notified at leaat one (I) month prior to plant shut down lo they may arrange their vacations.
19.05	The Conpany agrees to post a notice requesting the names of
employees willing to work during a tcbedule plant shut down
19.06	Total vacation pay entitlement will be given at the tine of plant closure for annual vacation period, to any employee (upon request).
Article 20
REPORTING ALLOWANCE
20.01	An employee who reports for work at the commencement of a regular shift shall be entitled to a minimum of (bur (4) hours pay * hi* or her hourly rate, or on die four (4) shift operatioe,
the company agrees to pay six (6) hours unless previously notified by the Company the employee shall perform such available work as the Company may assign This does not apply in the esse t& tteaimCitirer fra, "ex*. xa "Vri333vfi-tiona beyond the Company’s control It should be noted that the tenn “shift” means one (1) full working period, as provided in Article IS • Hours of Work.
REPORT-IN FOLLOWING ILIMESS
20.02	fa employee is expected to give pnor notice when reporting for work following an illness In the event such absence exceed! one (1) working day, an employee shall not qualify for work or pay purauant to clause 20.01, unless he/she has informed the ftact Nurse by no later than 3:00 p.m. on the lsst
23
scheduled work day immediately prior to the day of returning to work Employees returning to work from Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation claims, must provide a doctor’s certificate or obtain approval of the Plant Nurse prior to returning.
EMERGENCY CALL IN PAY
*20,03 If an emergency arises and an employee is called into work Dutside of his normal working hours, he shall be paid the greater of actual time worked at the rate of time and one half (1-1/2) or four (4) hours pay.
Emergencies on a Sunday will be paid double the rate of an employees hourly rate.
JURY DUTY
20.04- The Company shall pay to any employee who may be required to serve as a Juror, the difference, if any, between the amount paid to them for Jury Service and the amount they would otherwise have earned for their regular scheduled hours during the same period of time, on condition that proof of such service and fees received is provided by the employee.
TOOL ALLOWANCE
*20.05 All enployee* in Yam Mechanical labour groups shall, receive fifteen (15) cents per hour in addition to the hourly rate which is applicable to their classification for all hours worked: Maintenance mechanics labour groups shall receive ten (10) cent* p a hour in addition to the hourly rate which is applicable to their classification for all hours worked.
FIRST AID ATTEN D ANTS
20.06	First Aid Attendants holding a qualifying certificate will be assigned responsibility as required by the Medical Centre Supervisor and receive and additional twenty (20) cents per hour above job rate.
Article 21
EMPLOYEES INJURED
who are injured while at work and have to go home because of such injuries shall be paid for the balance of the shift on which the injury occurred.
29
ArtJcJ* 22 WAGES
*22.01 The Latxsur Groups and Wage Rates to be paid pursuantto this Agreement are as follows:
(a)	Newly hired employees wilt be paid at a rate of fifty (SO) cent* per hour lea than job rate for the firat four hundred (400) hour* worked.
Employees being trained as a result of obtainingj ob posting will be paid a rate of twenty (20) cents per hour less than job rate :fea period not exceeding four hundred (400) hours worked, except for Yam Mechanics who will be paid twenty (20) cents per hour below their rate and fifty (50) cents per hour below their rate for new hi for me two thousand (2,000) hours training period.
(b)	Operation* not covered or new operations that come into use will have wage rates set in line with Labour Groups lilted below.
(c)	If during the lifetime of this Agreement any employee feels
that hisjob has changed sufficiently to warrant reclassification, this matter shall be handled through the normal GrievanceProcedure,
(d)	Employee* working m the capacity of Lead Rand will be paid at a rate of tw enty-live (25) cents per hour more than the Job Rate for the classification of employees they are directing.
Nonnal job porting will apply with first opportunity given to candidates from the classification of employees which they are directing.
30
WAGE RATES- 40 HOUR BASIS
20 cents	20 cents
Jan. 1/94	Jan.1/95
Labour Group 1
General Labourer
Weigher	SH-34	SH-74
Labour Group 2 Material Mover Waste Sorter Blender Utility Person
Dyehouse Dryer Operator	11.66	11.86
Labour Group 3 Creeler
Pre-latex Examiner Kettlehand Reeler/Winder Burler Mender Superba Operator Pinnacle Operator Forklift Operator Stock Keeper
Tradesman 4	11.73	11.93
Labour Group 4 Tufter Operator BCF Twister Twister Q.C. Checker Autoclave Operator Card Tender
12.08
31
11.88
WAGE RATES - 40 HOUR BASIS
20 cent!	20 cents
Jan. 1/94	Jan. 1/95
Labour Group 5
Balepress Operator	11.96	12.16
Labour Group6 Tuflcr Operator I
Spinner 12.10	12.30
Labour Group 7
Buffs (Mechanic)	12.18	12.38
Labour Group 8
Yarn Medmic	1325	13.45
Tradesman 3	1424	14.44
Labour Group 9
Tradesman 2	1458	14.78
An apprenticed Journeyman working in his own trade.
Labour Group 10
Tradesman 1	15.01	15.21
An apprenticed Journeyman working in his cwn trade with more than one ticket that the Company uses.
32
WAGE RATES - 36 HOUR 8ASIS
Jan. 1/94
Labour Group 1 General Labourer Sample Maker Weigher	$12.64
Labour Group 2 Material Mover Waste Sorter Blender Utility Person Dyehouse Dryer Operator	12.78
Labour Group 3 Creel er Pre-latex Examiner Kettlehand Reeler/Winder Burler Mender Superba Operator Pinmack Operator Forklift Operator Stock Keeper Tradesman 4	12.86
Labour Group 4 Tufter Operator BCF Twister Twister Q.C Checker Autoclave Operator Card Tender	13.02
Labour Group 5 Balepress Operator	13.10
Labour Group 6 TUfter Operator 1 Spinner	13.26
33
Jan. 1/95 $12.84
12.98
13.06
13.22
13.30
13.46
WAGE RATES - 36 HOUR BASIS
	Jan. 1294	Jan. 1295
Labour Group 7 Buffer (Mechanic)	13.34	13.S4
Labour Group 8 Yam Mechanic	14.51	14.71
Tradesman 3	15.06	15.26
Labour Group 9 Tradesman 2	15.98	16.18
Au apprenticed Journeyman working in his own trade.		
Labour Group 10 Tradesman 1	16.45	16.65
An apprenticed Journeyman working in his own trade with more than
one ticket that the Company uses
Notes:
1.	Any Tradesman in w ho has successfully completed a course of at least sixty (60) hours duration which has been identified and recommended by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Colleges and Universities, and approved by the Company as being a iisuMia) llicu day tr uSiy luuttutar aru rctpsc1 sibility will be paid a maximum additional allowance of forty (40) cents pa hour over and above his original certification. It is clearly understood that although some employees hold several such certificates, only one (1) forty (40) cents premium will be approved.
2.	Any of our existing Tradesman who wish to enter the Apprenticeship Program and are asked to go to school, will receive their base rate of pay while at school. To qualify for payment, U-LC. payment stubs must be submitted within thirty (30) days of time spend attending each school penod, so the difference in loss can be calculated to make up the shortage in earnings to base rate
34
APPRENTICESHIP SCHEDULE!
For those enrolled in Government Certified Programs -Experienced Earned	1994	1995
Fist 10CO hours training	$11.33	$11.73
After 1000 hours training	11.74	11.94
After 2000 hours training	12.01	12.21
After4000 hourstraining	12.34	12-S4
After 6000 hours training	12.80	13.00
After 8000 hours training	13.85	14.05
After obtaining certificate	1454	14.74
Notu
Cue ApprenticeshipProgram will be governed by the rules and regulations of the Apprenticeship and Tradesman’s Qualifications Act, but limited to academic qualification of at least Grade 12 or equivalent, in me subject required for the Apprenticeship under consideration.
Completionof Apprenticeship does not guarantee employment. Employees become eligible for application through normal job posting procedure when permanent vacancies exist
Article 23
GROUP INSURANCE
23.01 The cost of the Group Insurance Plan will be shared on the following basis, beginning at the first of the month immediately following 400 hours of service.
(a)	The Company will pay 100% of the cast of hospital, surgical and medical benefits through O.H.I.P. as well as the Extended Health Care benefits currently provided.
(b)	The Company will pay 80% of the cost of Life Insurance and Weekly Indemnity with the employees paying the remaining 20%.
(c)	Any change in the cost of the Group Insurance Plan during the Life of this Agreement will be snared on the same basis.
35
SUMMARY OF BENEFITS
O.H.I.P.
23.02
23.03
23.04
23.05
*23.06
23.07
*23.08
23.09
23.10
Provides hospital, surgical and medical benefits. Standardward accommodation.
SEMI-PRIVATE HOSPITAL (OPTIONAL)
Hospital accommodation is available on a volun-taiy contribution basis to employees and their families. EXTENDED HEALTH CARE
Employee* coverage* are as per details in the current booklet as given to .each employee.
WEEKLY INDEMNITY
Benefits for Weekly Indemnity will be paid at 60% of basic earnings to Hie Emit of the current Unemployment Insurance Commission Maximum Weekly Benefit for a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks commencing the first (1st) day of an accident and the fourth (4th) day for sickness LIFE INSURANCE
All eligible employees - 530,000.00.
PAID-UP LIFE INSURANCE AT RETIREMENT
Employees with five (5) or more years service at normal retirement (age65) receive a paid-up Life Insurance policy for -5 to 15 years service - 52,000.00
- over IS vears service - 52,500.00
DENTAL CARE BENEFITS
The Company will pay 50% of the cost of dental care premiums with the employees paying the remaining 50%. Paid at the 1991 OHuA. schedule of fees.
For employees with one (1) year or more seniority, the Company shall maintain all benefits while on Maternity Leave of Absence for a maximum period of seventeen (17) weeks.
Tho Company reserves the right to change the carrier for the Group Insurance Plan, including Life Insurance, Extended Health Benefit and Weekly Indemnity, provided that if the Company changesthe insurance carrier, there will be no loss of benefits to the employees.
36
23.11 More detailed informBJio.o regarding employees' benefits is provided in the policies and documents issued to Harding Carpets, In the event of any variation’betWMu the information iodiis summary and the provisions of the Dolicies and docu-ihents.the fetter will prevail,
Article 24 PENSION PLAN
... t: t'■
24.01 The employees Pension Plan is hereby made a part of this Agreement, and the Company agrees to supply all eligible-employees with a hand book
Article 25
BEREAVEMENTPAY
25.01 Should a bereavement occur in an employee’s imjjyejjiate family (spouse, children, mother, father, sister, brother, ‘mother-inlaw, father-in-law., grandparents, grandchildren, daughter-inlaw, son-in-law),' they shall be granted a leave of absence not to exceed tww^ejjp$4) working hours. ,	,«
In the case of brother'-in-law and sisteriin-law, one (1) day will be granted uponrequest.
Note:
All aDDroved above, mentioned time so lost .will be reimbursed ,at * employee's regular bpu^y rate or, hasp,rat^, .provided the
purpose of the leave includes attending the funeral of the deceased
All time off grantee) for bereavement must be taken at the time of occurrence Or the death and,such time off cannot be cotn-, pounded with olhff benefits. (e„ ... fo, qualify tinder this, clause for a coipmon.-litiv relationship, the employee must previously haye^^ge^li.ispr her documents for insurance beneficiaries, etc. to the person now claiihgd and be on record assuchin our personnel files.
Spouses and Children
Only
37
26.01
27.01
*27.02
27.03
27.04
Article 26
BULLETIN BOARDS
The Union did haveths rightto use the Bulletin Boards in the plant for the purpose of potting notices, etc., provided that all such notices shall first have been approved by the Company.
Article 27
HEALTH A SAFETY
The Company will make all reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during working hours.
The Company will supply employees with protective clothing as outlined as follows at no cost to the employee and these Mist be “properly” worn at all times to ensure the employees’ safetyand/br health:
(a) Hairnet or Company approved caps.
(c)	Steel-toes robber boots for dyehouse employees.
(d)	Dlfference in cost to maximum Of S5.00 on original purchase of prescription safety glasses if their wearing is theresult of a department or plant rule.
(e)	A Safety Shoe Allowance of sixty (60) dollars per person per twelve (12) month period will be pennitted as teim bunement toward the purchase of a pair of approved safety footwear purchased. Owpek per 12 month period from the
date of purchase.
The parties hereto agree that a Plant Safety Committee will be maintained in order to promote safety in the plant. The Committee will be composed of an equal number from Management and the Union and will meet monthly.
Mtcnben of the Safety Committee will be paid at their regular rate of pay for time lost while attending safety meetings.
38
Article 28
COMPANY REGULATIONS
28.01 It ii understood and agreed that the employees will respecr and abide by the Company’s rules, regulations and practices, which may be In force from time to time.
*29.01 This Agreement signed and entered into as of the 1st day of 1994 will be effective from that date until the 31st day shall continue automatically thereafter tor annual terms otonftt) year, unless notice is given in writing by either party of their intention to modify amend, or terminate this Agreement within the 90 day period immediately preceding the date of Termination of said Agreement
’29.02 In the event of such notitication being given as to the revision of the Agreement, and within fifteen (15) days of notification, or within such longer time as may be mutually agreed upon the .parties shall commence negotiations.
29.03	If pursuant to such negotiations, an Agreement is not reached on the renewal or amendment of this Agreement, or the making of a new Agreement prior to the current expiry date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until a new Agreement is signed between the parties or until Conciliation Proceedings under the Ontario Labour Relations Act have been completed, whichever date occurs the earlier.
29.04	In witness whereof each 6f the parties hereto has caused this
Agreement to be signed by their duly authorized represents -lives; this 3rd day of January, 1994.	'
29.05	This Contract constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties ad supersedes ad replaces all previous Agreements.
39
On behalf of the Company: K. Robinson J. Nlckllng
Oq behalf of the Union A.C.T.W.U. Local 1857;
D, Pedlar
R Nolan
D, Charters
T.Heealegrave
S. Baker
M. Stevens
A.Trewln
Greats Toronto Textile Joint Board;
A. TVewin, Business Agent
Fat Sullivan, Joint Board Manager
Amalgamated Clothing Textile Worker* Union, AFL-CIO.CLC:	"
Director
PART II
EMPLOYEE’S GUIDE
It is necessary for the members of any organization to observe certain regulations in order to make the cooperative effort a success. Our rules at Harding Carpets are not designed to restrict the individual, but to protect you by assuring safe working conditions and equal treatment. For this reason we have provided the following brief outline.
PAY
Employees are paid each Thursday by cheque. Certain deductions, such as income tax and unemployment insurance, are leqjireiby law. Deductions under the Retirement Income Plan and Union Dues are also compulsory. Other deductions may be made only with the authorizationof the employee which would include Group Insurance. purchase of savings bonds and charitable donations.
TIME CLOCK INFORMATION All employees must punch their time cards when commencing and finishing work.
SMOKING PRIVILEGES
Smoking is not allowed in the plant, except during speciGed periods and then only in areas designated for this purpose by Management. It is essential for the safety and security of all concerned that this rule be strictly adhered to.
PLANT RULES
The purpose 0f these rules and regulations is not to restrict the rights §' Hhyone, but to define them and protect the rights of all and ensure co-operation Committing any of the following violations will be sufficient grounds for disciplinary action tanging from reprimand to immediate discharge, depending upon the seriousness of the offence in the judgement of Management.
1.	Falsification of personnel or other records. '
2,	Failure to punch your own time card, punching card other than your own, or permitting your card to be punched by another.
41
3.	Absence from work a late arrival at place of work. It is each employee's responsibility to notify his Foreman of any absence, telling him the probable length of absence and the reason for absence.
4.	Leaving work assignment or plant during working houis without permission or failure to return to work after lunch period without permission.
attention of others, or otherwise causing confusion by unnecessary demonstration of any kind on Company premises.
6.	Creating or contributing to disorderly or unsanitary conditions.
7.	Possession of weapons on Company premises
8.	Failure or refusal to follow the instructions of supervision or to do yourjob assignment.(Do your work assignment and follow instructions;any complaint may betaken up laterthroughyour Foreman).
9.	Operation of machines, tools, or equipment to which you have not been specifically assigned.
10.	Making waste unnecessarily; faulty or careless workmanship.
11.	Horseplay, scuffling, running or throwing things.
12.	Wasting time or loitering in toilets or on any Company property during working hours.
13.	Smoking, except in specifically designated areas and during specified periods.
14.	Assaulting, threatening, intimidating, coercing, or interfering
with employees or supervision
15.	Soliciting. or collecting contributions for any purpose whatsoever on Company premises, without the specific approval of Management.
42
16,	Distributing literature, written or printed matter of any description on Company premises, without the specific approval of Management.
17,	Posting or removal of notices, signs or writing in any form on bulletin boards or Company property without the specific approval of Management
18,	Mis e or unauthorised removal of employee lists, blue prints, Company records, or confidential information of any nature.
19,	Careless use, misuse or abuse of any tools, equipment, materials, products, or other property, owned by other employees or by the Company, or in the Company’s custody.
20,	Restricting output
21,	The making or publishing of false, vicious, or malicious state meets concerning any employee, any member of supervision, the Company, or its products.
22,	Abusive language to other employees or supervision
23,	Fighting
24 Theft or misappropriation of property of employees, or of the Company, or in the Company’s custody.
25,	Possession or consuming of alcoholic beverages, narcotic drugs, inhaling of any substance to create an hallucinary effect on Company property or while onjob assignment. Reporting to work under the influence of alcohol or narcotic drugs, when suffering side effects from alcoholic or narcotic drugs.
26.	Sabotage or deliberate destruction of any property belonging to the Company, its employees, or in the Company’s custody
27.	Disregard of safefy rales or common safety practicea
28,	Immoral conduct or indecency.
43
29.	Throwing refuse or objects on the floors or out the windows.
30.	Stopping work or making preparation to leave work (such as washing up or changing clothes) before lunch period or authorized quitting time.
31.	Repeated violations of plant or safety rules.
SAFETY RULES
Carpets endeavours to make working conditions in the plant as safe as possible. The purpose of the entire Safety Program is to protect you from injury. The following are general safety rula applicable to all employees. Specific safety Instruction for certain jobs will be issued by supervision where necessary.
1.	No machinery should be. operated without authority or Wilhout a thorough knowledge of the method of operation
2.	Machinery should never be set in motion without definitely ascertaining that no one is in a position to be injured
3.	Guards and other safety devices are provided for your protection, They must not be removed except by authorizationof Foreman, and then replaced immediately after operation for which authority was given to remove gfiard or fixture.
4.	Report defective guards, equipment, or machinery not operating correctly to your Foreman immediately.
5.	Stop your machine before you leave it; when oiling, cleaning or adjusting, switch off the motor, see that the belt is on the loose pulley, and if possible lock your machine to prevent accidental starting,
6.	Never distract the attention of other operators. You may cause them injury.
7.	Where danger exists from dust, flying chips, splinters, grinding, etc., shatterproof goggles must be worn.
44
8.	It is laid down that safety hair nets or caps MUST be worn by employees working on or near machines or revolving shafts, etc.. They MUST be used. This is Provincial regulation and the employer and employee are equally liable for a fine for nonobservance.
9.	Keep space around your machine, passageways, etc., clear of surplus materials, to prevent tripping into machinery.
10.	Notify your Foreman if the floor around your machine is oily, slippery, broken or in bad condition, so that this may be recti -tied.
11.	Do not wear rings, loose fitting clothing or loose ties near machinery or other moving shafts, etc.
12,	Anticipate rough and jagged edges on all material when lifting.
13,	Carefully wash hands free from grease or oil at the end of a shift, and before eating food to avoid certain types of poisoning. Methylated spirits and similar degreasing agents cause a skin irritation and should not be used.
equipment should never be interfered with. Report to Foreman who will send for electrician to effect any repairs, adjustments or overhauls.
15,	To avoid strains and ruptures, stand firmly on both feet, as close to the work as possible, slightly bending the knees. This posture permits the even distribution of the necessary effort.
16,	If you are injured, no matter how slightly, report to your Foreman for treatment. It should be borne in mind that a slight scratch or cut, if neglected, may lead to the loss of a limb or even cause death. A proper record of all injury and treatment given must be kept by the Plant Nurse.
17,	Do not wash rubber soled shoes, especially in wet or oily places. Wear safety shoes to prevent injury to the feet.
45
18,	See that ladders have proper safety feet or hooks, or are tied to prevent slipping. Report to your Foreman any that are unprotected, broken or unsafe.
19,	Larking and horseplay are a common cause of injuries. Discourage anyone attempting it.
If any of the above rules are not clear to you • ask your Foreman.
FIRE PROTECTION
Learn the specific tire hazards involved in your work.
2.	Learn the location of the nearest extinguisher and the proper use of such equipment.
3.	Submit any questions regarding fire precaution to your supervisor.
46
Carpets
Letter of Understanding Between
Harding Carpets Inc.
CoiUngwood Plant and Local 1857 A.C.T.W.U.
The parties hereto signed agree to the following letter of understanding of the current labour agreement in force, and effect until December 31,
~ DEC 3 11995
This letter will confirm the understanding reached during negotiations that employees will not accumulate hours in a classification unless they have either posted or bumped into that classification.
Signed for the Company
Signed for the Union
Dated at Colllngwood this 29th day of March, 1994,
47