JOURCE^			
SfF.	m	01	CM
eoixiEGm	m	JR	Rl
AGREfiMfevtT
. J no&»m ^<vv6^rloyes
5.0
HARDING CARPETS COLLINGWOOD PLANT
— and —
jgmu
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING TEXTILE WORKER*® UNION,
LOCAL 1857
January 1,1989 — December 31,1990
0CT 20 (989 OoV'? 0-3
INDEX
PART 1 - AGREEMENT
Article
1	General Purpose.........................
2	union Kecogiiiuiin...................
3	Reservation of Management Rights... .
4	Union Security Check Off...................
Strikes and Lockouts.. ,............,...... 4
Page
1
■ i
. l 2 3
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
Union Executive Committee............
Stewards...................,.........
Grievance Procedure..................
Discharge.........................
Arbitration..........................
Seniority............................
Promotions to Supervisory Positions. . .
Leave of Absence...................... }4
Termination of Employment.........
Job Postings..................., . .
Transfer...........................
13 Lay-Off.
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
Recall .
Hours of Work.............
Overtime............-.....
Shift Premium.......,.....
Statutory Holidays........
Vacation with Pay.....-. -. .
Reporting Allowance. -....
Report-in Following Illness . Emergency Call-in Pay . . . .
Jury Duty...............
Tool Allowance.
First Aid Attendants....
Employees Injured.. ,.....
Wages.....................
Group Insurance...........
Pension Plan..............
Bereavement Pay.. . . ,...
4
6
7
12 ii
13
tt
16
s
22
28
29
29
31
31
32 32 32
32
33 33
42
42
INDEX (Continued)
PART 1 - AGREEMENT
Article
£.\J DUildlll uuoiua...........
27	Health and Safety.........
28	Company Regulations.......
29	Termination Clause........
PART II
Employees’ Guide .........
Pay.......................
Time Clock Information ....
Smoking Privileges........
Plant Rules...............
Fire Protection ..........
Page
43
44 44
46
46
46
46
47 50 52
PART 1
This Agreement made and entered into as of 1st day of January, 1989 by and between:
HARDING CARPETS, Collingwood, Ontario, (hereinafter designated as the “Company”)
— and —
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 1857, (hereinafter designated as the “Union”)
Article I
GENERAL PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to provide for the general welfare of the Company and its employees, to further promote and improve the good relations existing between the parties in a spirit of good will, tolerance and understanding.
Article 2
UNION RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the sole exclusive bargaining agency for its employees save and except: fixer-assistant foremen, persons above that rank, industrial nurse, office staff, and security guards.
2.02	Where the masculine pronoun is used herein, it shall mean and include the feminine pronoun where the context applies.
1
Article 3
RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive right and function of the Company to:
(a)	Hire, retire, direct, classify, transfer, lay-off, recall, promote, reprimand, discharge, demote, and generally to discipline employees subject to the Grievance Procedure as herein provided.
(b)	Determine, fix, alter, make studies of and institute changes in tasks, work assignments, job duties, job qualifications, work loads, job classifications, quality and quantity standards; to select and retain employees for positions excluded from the Bargaining Unit and to transfer employees into the Bargaining Unit: the Company agrees to exercise the above rights in a reasonable manner.
(c)	Plan, direct, control, manage, operate, extend, curtail, limit and discontinue the Industrial Enterprise in which the Company is engaged and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing
and	fid‘‘dat<SPmina all nrndii/vfe tn Ks
\ajy w/) auu ws> 1 uwiviiuuiv an piuuuvu vv uv
manufactured, all methods and processes of manufacture, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, the engineering and designing of its products and the control of materials and parts incorporated in the products produced.
3.02	It is agreed that all the functions not referred to or limited by this Agreement shall be considered residual to 3.01. The Company agrees to exercise these functions fairly in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
2
3.03	The Company agrees to discuss with the Union Executive, matters of mutual concern which may arise, for the purpose of better communications.
3.04	No production supervisor shall do work normally done by a Bargaining Unit employee so as to replace an employee, except to instruct a worker in their duties, to assist a worker in doing experimental work on production equipment or to provide emergency relief.
Article 4
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK OFF
4.01	The parties hereto agree that all present employees subject to this agreement except new employees during their 400 hour probationary period, shall become and remain members of the Union in good standing.
4.02	New employees shall make application for membership in the Union at the time of their hiring, and shall become and remain members of the Union in good standing by the time their probationary period has been served.
4.03	The obligation of the Company to dismiss employees who fail to remain members in good standing shall arise only if the Union furnishes evidence that the employee’s connection with the Union has been terminated for reasons which are just and equitable.
4.04	The bona tides of the action under this clause may be subject to review through the grievance procedure and arbitration, if necessary, having due regard to the fact that in any event the Company is obligated to deduct Union dues from all eligible employees for the duration of this Agreement.
- 3 -
4.05	The Company agrees that it will, for the full period of the Agreement provide for the collection of the Local’s initiation fee during the probationary period of all employees and deduct weekly from the earnings of all eligible employees, including new employees upon completion of their probationary period, union dues not to include fines or special assessments, etc. and to remit the money so deducted to the person designated by the Union whose receipt shall be considered as a discharge to Harding Carpets. for the amount so deducted. The first deduction of dues from new employees shall be considered the Initiation Fee.
Article 5
STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
5.01	Whereas this Agreement provides for the just settlement, by Arbitration if necessary, of disputes which may arise between the parties hereto, it is therefore agreed that during the life of this Agreement or while Negotiations for its Amendments or Renewal are in progress, subject to the terms and conditions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act there shall be no Strike, Slow Down Stoppage of Work, or other interference with production by the employees hereby covered and the Company will not cause or direct any Lock Out of its employees.
Article 6
UNION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
6.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select from amongst the Executive Committee of the Local, not more than five (5) members who would act on behalf of the Union in meeting with the Company with respect to any matter
- 4 -
on such matters outside of working hours. However, the Company shall cease to compensate employees for time spent in negotiations (not including time spent in processing grievances or arbitration) when an aggregate of 340 hours of negotiating time has elapsed)
6.05	It is agreed that from the Union Executive Committee, the President, Vice-President, Secretary-Treasurer and Sergeant-at-Arms shall be considered to have acquired seniority rights as a result of holding said office.
Such additional seniority rights will apply only in the case of lay-off at which time any of the aforementioned who are affected by lay-off, and unable to retain a position through the normal lay-off procedure, will displace the most junior employee on the plant-wide seniority list, provided they have the ability to perform the work required.
The Union will inform the Company in writing which four (4) Union members hold the positions entitled to the additional plant-wide seniority rights. Such seniority rights are not transferrable.
Article 7
STEWARDS
7.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select Stewards to assist employees% presenting their grievances to the representatives of the Company. Employees, to-be eligible to serve as Stewards, must have completed their probationary period with the Company.
7.02	There shall be one (1) Steward for the employees of each section and shift listed below:
-6-
1	Dyehouse and Blending
2	Carding
3	Spinning
4	Twisting
5	Reeling, Winding, Backwinding, Autoclaving
6	Yarn Mechanical/Maintenance
7	Tufting
8	Material Handling
9	Quality Control 10 Maintenance
7.03	The Union shall supply the Company with the names of the employees constituting the Union Executive Committee and Shift Stewards and shall inform the Company -promptly of any changes which may occur. The Company shah recognize only those employees so listed.
7.04	If one particular shift in any department is temporarily without a Steward, the Steward of either of the other two shifts or a designated member of the Executive Committee shall be the recognized Union Representative for the department.
Article 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	Should any difference arise between the Company and the Union or its members employed by the Company, as to the meaning and direction of the provisions of this Agreement, all such difference shall be taken up and disposed of m the procedures to follow: It is also agreed to by both parties that under no circumstances shall an employee consider that he has a grievance until he has first given his Foreman an
- 7 -
opportunity of dealing with the complaint or other matters which may be the source of the grievance.
The employee will be accompanied by his Steward if he desires such assistance. The decision of the Foreman shall be made within two (2) working days.
Step 1
If the Foreman fails to settle the grievance satisfactorily, the Steward shall within five (5) working days of the incident, reduce the grievance to writing on forms to be supplied by the Union. The Steward shall present the copies of the grievance to the Foreman for his written disposition, which will be given within two
(2)	working days.
Step 2
Failing settlement with the Foreman, the aggrieved employee and his Steward or the Chairman of the Union Executive Committee shall discuss the matter with the superintendent or his delegated representative within three (3) working days, and endeavour to effect a settlement. The decision of the Superintendent, or his representative, shall be made in writing not later than three (3) working days after the meeting.
Step 3
All grievances not settled at Step 2 shall be taken up between the Chairman of the Union Executive Committee, an officer of the Union and the Plant Manager and/or designated representative of the Company within five (5) working days of the decision given in Step 2. The Union representative may be included if desired by either party. The decision of the Company shall be given in writing within five (5) working days following the date of the meeting. If the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of both parties, then at
8
may be resolved by confirming the Company’s action in discharging the employee, or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, less any monies earned elsewhere, or by any other arrangement which is considered just and equitable in the opinion of the parties.
8.06	At any stage of the Grievance Procedure, including Arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned, and any necessary witnesses and relevant records, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant to view disputed operations and to confer with the necessary witnesses.
Article 9 ARBITRATION
9.01	When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to Arbitration, they shall make such request in writing, addressed to the other party to this Agreement. Should the parties fail to agree on an Arbitrator within ten (10) days, they shall then request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario, to assist them in selecting an impartial chairman. If an agreement is not reached on an impartial chairman within a further ten (10) days, then the Minister of Labour for the Province shall be requested to appoint a chairman who shall be a resident of the Province of Ontario.
In the event of default by either party in nominating its representative to the Arbitration Board, the other party may apply to the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario who shall have power to effect such nominations.
10
9.02	No person may be appointed as an Arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
9.03	Each of thei parties hereto will bear the expenses of the Arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the expenses of the chairman of the -Arbitration Board, if any.
9.04	No matter may be submitted to Arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance procedure.
9.05	The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, nor to deal with any matter not covered by this Agreement.
9.06	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the Chairman of such Board will be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
9.07	Any and all time limits referred to under the Grievance and Arbitration Procedures herein may at any time be extended by written agreement between the Company and the Union or their representatives.
Article 10 SENIORITY
10.01	The principle of seniority based on length of continuous service with the Company will be recognized with resoect to employees covered by this Agreement, subject to the following provisions outlined in 10.02 and 10.03.
11
Departmental Seniority
10.02	(a) An employee acquires departmental seniority rights after serving a period of 400 hours worked in one department within a period of five (5) months from his original date of hire.
(b)	If a probationary employee is laid off prior to acquiring his departmental seniority rights and if he is recalled and accumulates the balance of his 400 hours worked within the period of that recall, or any subsequent recall, within that initial five month period of hire, then his seniority date will be his original date of hire.
If a probationary employee fails to accumulate his 400 hours as outlined above, then a new five (5) month period is to be established based on the last date of recall and the seniority date will be the date of last recall.
(c)	The positioning of an employee on a Departmental Seniority List shall be according to the length of service in the department in which they are employed or in accordance with Article 11.03.
(d)	Separate Departmental Seniority Lists shall be established for each of the following:
(1)	The Yarn Department shall include:
Dyehouse Reeling
Blending Winding
Carding Autoclaving
Spinning Yarn Mechanical/Maintenance
Twisting
(2)	The Tufting Department
(3)	The Shipping Department
(4)	The Quality Control Department
(5)	The Maintenance Department
Plant Wide Seniority
10.03	(a) An employee acquires Plant-Wide Seniority rights after serving a period of 400 hours worked for the Company.
(b)	If a probationary employee is laid off prior to acquiring his Plant-Wide Seniority rights and if he is recalled, he will be deemed to have acquired his PlantWide Seniority rights when he has worked 400 hours within a period of five (5) consecutive months, at which time his seniority date will be the date of last hire.
(c)	The positioning of an employee on a Plant-Wide ‘Seniority List will be according to their Plant-Wide Seniority date.
10.04	Seniority Lists shall be kept up to date by quarterly revisions. Copies of the lists will be furnished to the Union and will be posted on the appropriate bulletin boards. The seniority listings of employees shall be final except where accuracy is disputed and the individual employee lodges a written protest with his Foreman within ten (10)days after the list is posted. The seniority date shall be subject to adjustment if it is proved to have been incorrect and the protest of the employee may be taken through the Grievance Procedure.
Promotions to Supervisory Positions
10.05	Promotion to supervisory positions will not be subject to the provisions of the Agreement. However, employees returning to the Bargaining Unit who have been transferred out of the Bargaining Unit will retain and be credited with only that seniority accumulated while in a position within the Bargaining Unit.
These employees exercise their seniority rights by being placed on their previous Departmental Seniority List, and will displace the most junior employee in their previous job classification. Failing placement,
- 13 -
they will be placed on the Plant-Wide Seniority List and will displace only the most junior employee according to Plant-Wide Seniority.
It is agreed that for thirty (30) calendar days from the date of their return to the Bargaining Unit, employees will not be considered for job postings unless there are no other applicants. Upon expiration of the thirty (30) day time period, said employees may make full use of their accredited seniority rights.
10.06	Seniority standing is cancelled upon the termination of employment.
Leave Of Absence
10.07	An employee’s continuity of service shall not be deemed to have been broken under the following conditions:
(a)	By any absence caused by illness or accident ver-tified by a doctor, except as outlined in clause 10.08(g).
(b)	By any absence granted by Management in writing.
(c)	By the absence caused by pregnancy according to the provisions in effect, under the Employment Standards Act and its amendments thereto.
Time extension for pregnancy leave beyond that
specified in the Employment Standards Act, and the conditions and terms pursuant to such extension, may be granted by Management after full consideration of each request.
Termination Of Employment
10.08	Employment is terminated when:
(a)	An employee is dismissed and not reinstated.
(b)	An employee quits.
- 14 -
(c)	An employee is absent twenty-four (24) consecutive working hours without notifying their immediate Supervisor, Superintendent, or Human Resources Department, and providing an acceptable reason to the company for such absence unless such absence is later justified by illness vertified by a Doctor’s Certificate.
(d)	An employee has been laid off and fails to report for work within five (5) working days after receiving notice of recall, unless prevented from doing so by reasonable cause.
Receiving notice of recall means notification in writing by registered mail to the last address on record with the Company, if unable to contact the employee in any other way. It is the employee’s responsibility to keep the Company informed of any change of address.
(e)	An employee has been laid off according to the following schedule:
Plant Seniority Credit
Up to 1 year
Over 1 year and up to 2 years Over 2 years service
Term Of Lay-Off Equivalent of Seniority
1	year
2	years
(f)	An employee retires or is retired in accordance with the Company’s retirement policy.
(g)	An employee has exhausted his twenty-six (26) week Weekly Indemnity Claim for sick benefit, unless the employee provides a medical certificate stating their continued disability, in which case their name will be carried on the plant-wide recall list for an additional six (6) month period from date of exhaustion of benefits. If declared medically tit within the above stated period, the employee may return to their own permanent job or to a job where the employee has four hundred (400) hours worked upon one (1) week advance notice to the company.
- 15 -
Article 11 JOB POSTINGS
11.01	If a permanent job vacancy occurs, the following procedure will apply:
(a)	Notice of permanent job vacancies covered by this Agreement will be posted on the Bulletin Board for a period of time to allow all shifts to see it. Notice of successful applicants will be placed on the Bulletin Board.
(b)	Seniority shall govern the selection of individuals when in the judgement of management, ability, necessary experience and efficiency related to the requirements of the specific job are approximately equal. If a dispute arises concerning selection, the past work records of the candidates shall also be considered. Employees already in the classification and seeking a shift change, shall be considered on a seniority basis.
(c)	It is understood that new hires will be restricted from job postings for six (6) months from date of hire, employees applying from within the department will be limited to one such opportunity every six (6) months and employees applying from other departments will be limited to one such opportunity per year.
(d)	Employees obtaining a job posting as a Yarn Mechanic will complete a training period of 2,000 hours worked. Upon successful completion of the required training period the employees will be paid the Yarn Mechanic rate.
11.02	Employees obtaining a job posting or transfer to another department will have their Departmental Seniority transferred to that department upon completion of four hundred (400) h ours worked in that classification.
16
11.03	If during the four hundred (400) hour probationary period an employee fails to perform the new job to the satisfaction of the Company, the affected employee may exercise his lay-off rights under 13.02
(b), except, shift preference shall not apply.
Article 12 TRANSFER
12.01	Employees permanently transferred at their own request or by the Company will receive the rate for the job to which they have been transferred and will be placed on the applicable Departmental Seniority list.
12.02	An employee on temporary transfer up to one Q> month or longer, if mutually agreed to will receive his own rate for the balance of that shift and thereafter will be paid the rate for the job to which he has been transferred, iftne iiaiisTcrra Tu l«uviuc“wuiiliir iteu of lay-off. If the employee is temporarily transferred for the convenience of the Company, then the employee will be paid the higher of the two (2) rates for the balance of that shift and thereafter.
12.03	Temporary transfers will be handled through job posting procedures if the temporary vacancy is either for a definite or indefinite period of two (2) weeks or more duration,
(Note: Dye House Only) This time limit may be extended if it is mutually agreed between the employee and the Company. Such agreement will be on a contact form with a copy to the employee.
The above procedure will only apply to postings of the first temporary vacancy and be confined to the department and shift where the vacancy occurs. When
11
it is known that an absence will extend beyond six (6) weeks, the shift restriction will not apply.
Upon completion of the temporary transfer, the employee shall return to the classification, department and shift held prior to transfer.
Article 13 LAY-OFF
notice of lay-off to an employee or such additional notice as required by the Employment Standards Act and the amendment thereto. This provision will not apply with respect to the following:
(1)	Probationary employees.
(2)	Lay-off resulting from matters beyond the Com-
e’s control including, but not limited to tire, ^ ning, flood, tempest, power failure, machine breakdown and work stoppage.
13.02	Where it is necessary to reduce the working force of employees in a department, they will be laid off in accordance with their Departmental Seniority position providing it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work that is available. The working force in the^ department will be
orlinctarl An o chin Kooio Anlv nnld tha ca/>AnH uinrt Hav uujuoivu uii a oiuii wuia vui/ uuui tuv ovwnu nwi rw uujf
of the following work week, (shift employee has been assigned to),, when it will again be adjusted on the following basis:
(a)	Probationary and temporary employees will be laid off first. (A temporary employee is defined as one who is hired for a limited period and/or for a specific purpose and is so noted on his employment record).
(b)	Seniority rights at time of lay-off will be exercised in the following sequential order; 13.02(b) (1); 13.02(b) (2); 13.02(c); 13.02(d).
Employees within the affected job classification will exercise, first, their Department Seniority by:
(1)	Displacing the employee with the least Departmental Seniority in the employee’s permanent job classification or bumping within the department to a job classification in which the employee has previously completed four hundred (400) hours worked and replace the employee in that classification having the least Departmental Seniority on the same shift.
(2)	Failing an opportunity to qualify under (1) above, employees may exercise their Departmental Seniority by bumping into a lower labour group replacing the most junior employee in the following classifications:
For Material
For Yam List For Tufting List Handling
Gen. Labour Gen. Labour Gen. Labour
Material Mover Creeler
Blender
Tufting Burler/Menders on lay-off from Labour Group 3 may exercise their Departmental Seniority by bumping and replacing the most junior employee in General Labour and Creeling Classifications.
Note:
Employees wishing to exercise their departmental rights in accordance with 13.02(b) (2) must inform their supervisor within twenty-four (24) hours of notification of lay-off, so that necessary changes can be completed without delay. Employees exercising their seniority rights into these classifications must be able to do the complete job efficiently in the opinion of
Management, with one shift training. It is agreed that under this right, employees cannot select their job and that placement will be at the discretion of the Company and that to be done fairly.
(c)	If, after exhaustion of his/her Departmental Seniority rights an employee fails to obtain placement, he/she may exercise their Plant-Wide Seniority rights including those em loyees affected by lay-off during their four hundred 400) hour Probationary Period on promotion by returning to a job classification in another department in which they have previously completed four hundred (400) hours worked and may displace an employee with the least Plant-Wade Seniority
(d)	If, an employee fails to attain placement by first exhausting his/her Departmental "Seniority under 13.02(b) (1); (2), and secondly by exhausting his/her Plant-Wide Seniority under 13.02(c), the following procedure may be applicable:
An employee may use their Plant-Wide Seniority to bump into a lower labour group and displace the most junior employee in the following classifications: General Labour	Creeler
Material Mover	Blender
Material Movers and Pinmack Operators on lay-off in Labour Group 2 can exercise their Plant-Wide Seniority by bumping and replacing the most junior employee in General Labour and Creeling classifications.
Note:
Employees exercising their bumping rights into these classifications must be able to do the complete job efficiently in the opinion of Management, with one shift training. Should the employee be found unable to do the job after one shift training, they will be laid off.
20
It is also agreed that under this right, employees cannot select their job and that placement will be done at the discretion of the Company and that to be done fairly.
(e)	The Company will then reduce the work force by laying-off in line with Seniority, unless in the opinion of Management it is impractical to do so, in which case the four (4) day week will go into effect. This clause is not intended to guarantee that a four (4) day week will always be maintained.
In any department having a multiple machine operation with identical production machinery, where a four (4) day week has been found necessary and extends for a period of two (2) consecutive weeks, the matter will be discussed with the Executive Committee to arran e a layoff procedure to take place no later than two H) weeks thereafter, should production requirements not increase.
It is clearly understood that in the departments with a single machine operation such as in Blending a four (4) day week may be the only alternative available, however, in such cases where a four (4) day week extends for a period of four (4) consecutive weeks, the matter will be fully discussed with the Executive Committee and a further reduction in force may result. Where possible, the Company will attempt to find work as a result of the short work week.
(f)	As production schedules are increased, employees will be recalled from layoff according to seniority as provided in the Recall Procedure. Ifthe work week has been reduced, the work week shall be increased to five (5) days prior to the recall of employees.
13.03	Laid off employees shall have their names transferred to a Plant-Wide available for employment list and offers of jobs in the departments other than their own shall be as provided in Article 14 — Recall.
- 21 -
Article 14 RECALL
14.01	Recall lists will be maintained for each department affected by the lay-off, and employees shall be recalled according to seniority in reverse order to the lay-off, that is. the last employee laid off shall be the first recalled, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	First, recall to a job classification within his department in which the employee has previously completed four hundred (400) hours worked.
(b)	Secondly, recall to the job classification from which the employee was laid off.
(c)	Thirdly, recall according to Plant-Wide Seniority to a iob classification in which the employee has completed four hundred (400) hours worked.
(d)	Fourthly, provided that the employee is physically able to perform the job, an employee shall be according to Plant-Wide Seniority called back to a job classification in which they will receive the benefit of a normal training period to prove their skill and ability to do the job. If within two (2) working days of time of recall the Company has been unable to make contact with the employee at his last recorded address, they have the right to by-pass that employee and an employee junior to him may be placed in his job. Action will then be taken under clause 10.08(d).
14.02	Employees recalled to jobs other ‘than their own permanent job, shall return to their permanent jobs when their permanent jobs become available. Anyone desiring to change permanent jobs must do so through job posting opportunities.
14.03	If an employee is offered a recall to a job, the employee is physically able to perform and the recall is refused, such employee may lose recall rights for the period of the lay-off.
14.04	For the purpose of completing job training, trainees may be held or recalled as required without consideration of seniority to complete their four hundred (400) hours training period. It is understood that trainees will perform work only within the job assignment of the trainer and that completion of training will not result in transfer of seniority until a subsequent recall. The Company will inform the Union in advance of the area where training will continue or recommence, the number of employees involved, and other relevant matters.
2.1
Article 15
HOURS OF WORK
15.01	The normal hours of work are forty (40) hours in one (1) week of fivd (5) days, Monday through Friday as follows:
(a)	ON A ONE OR TWO SHIFT OPERATION:
First Shift -
1k hour unpaid lunch break
Second Shift —
xh hour unpaid lunch break
6:45 a.m. to 10:45 a.m,
11.15a.m.to 3.15p.m.
3:45 p.m. to 7:15 p.m.
7:45 p.m. to 11:45 p.m.
(b)	ON A THREE SHIFT OPERATION:
First Shift —	7:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
Second' Shift —	3:30p.m.. to 11:30p.m.
Third Shift— 11:30 p.m. to 7:30a.m..
Employees working on “Three Shift Operation’* will be provided a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period and two (2) ten (10) tninute lest periods at a time to be arranged for each eight (8) hour shift of work.
15.02	ON A FOUR SHIFT OPERATION:
The normal! hours of work are thirty-sis (36) hours in one week of three (3) days, Monday1 through) Saturday as follows:
First Shift —	7:30	p.m.	to	7:30	a.m..	Sun., Mon., Tues.
Second Shift —	7:30	a.m.	to	7:30	p.m.,	Mon., Tues., Wed.
Third Shift —	7:30	p.m.	to	7:30	a.m.	Wed.,, Thurs., Fri.
Fourth Shift —	7:30	a.m.	to	7:30	p.m.	Thurs., Fri., Sat.
(a)	Wage Rate
Will be increased to provide 39.6 hours pay for 36 hours worked.
(b)	Lunch Break
Two (2) twenty (20) minute paid lunch break periods each shift.
(c)	Rest Periods
Three rest periods of 7 minutes plus 7 minutes plus 6 minutes for a total of 20 minutes will be provided at times to be announced by proper departmental notice.
(d)	Statutory Holidays will be granted with pay to qualifying employees when they are observed during the employee’s scheduled three day shift.
Employees who qualify for statutory holidays, and such desrgnated holiday does not fall within their scheduled three (3) day shift will have twelve (12) hours at regular contract rates added to their pay for the week in which the holiday is observed, without time off.
It is understood that those holidays observed be-twceii'vii'feistfiias"diii3l New Kaair inclusive, will be paid
on the basis of the 39.6 hour week, subject to eligibility and conditions as outlined in Article 18.
Special Note:
If a four shift operation is contemplated in any department, a minimum notice of twenty (20) working days will be given, at which time a vote will be taken. A majority of 60% of eligible employees will be required to begin operation.
Two weeks prior to the end of three (3) months operation, if any iniquities or problems exist, either party, if they so desire, may serve notice of request to meet to discuss the experience gained and the advisability of continuing this system. If any existing
- 25 -
Emblems cannot be resolved by the parties within a lrther three (3) month period, the system will be terminated as soon as is feasibly possible.
15.03 For Utility Persons, the normal hours of work will be designated by the Company but will not exceed forty (40) hours in any one (0 week of seven (7) calendar days, Sunday to Saturday.
Overtime premium will be paid on hours in excess of eight (iViiours -pei lra> ~oi riorty (40) Ware per
calendar week, or twelve (12) hours per day in a thirty-six (36) hour week as scheduled.
Double time will be paid for all hours worked on a Sunday, where Sunday is part of a weekly work schedule.
15.04	For payroll purposes, the week commences Sunday night shift. The normal hours of work as outlined above shall not be considered or interpreted as a guarantee by the Company of a specific number of hours of work per day or days of work per week.
15.05	Boiler start-up personnel will be required to commence work up to two (2) hours prior to their normal shift Sunday night as per schedule.
Article 16 OVERTIME
16.01	An employee will be paid at the rate of time and one-half of his regular hourly rate for:
(a)	All time worked in excess of the normal daily
hours applicable as provided in Article 15.
(b)	All time worked on Saturday unless special
arrangements have been made or unless such time is part of a regular shift as in Article 15.
- 26 -
(bl) Overtime does not include:
1.	Time worked by employees substituting for one another at their own request.
2.	A change of an employee’s working hours at their own request.
16.02	An employee will be paid at the rate of double his regular hourly rate for:
(a)	All time worked on the legal holidays enumerated in paragraph 18.01 unless such time is part of a shin commencing on the day before or ending the day after the holiday. This pay is in addition to the pay provided under paragraph 18.01.
(b)	All time scheduled and worked on Sunday.
16.03	The Company will be reasonable in sharing overtime among employees within the classification who are capable and willing to work.
If a dispute arises over the application of overtime, overtime records will be made available to the Union.
The Union Executive Committee will cooperate with the Company in curbing the abuse of overtime as it applies to certain employees working overtime and then subsequently taking time off.
- 27 -
id to employees work-cents shall be paid to
Article 17 SHIFT PREMIUM
17.01	(a) TWO AND THREE SHIFT OPERATIONS:
A Shift Premium of twenty-eight (28) cents per hour shall be ing on the second shift, and a Shift Premium of thirty-two (3 employees working on the third shift.
(b)	FOUR SHIFT OPERATION:
A Shift Premium shall be paid as follows:
(1) First and Third Shift —
28 cents between the hours of 7:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m.
32 cents between the hours of 11:30 p.m. and 7:30 a.m.
(2) Second and Fourth Shift —
28 cents between the hours of 3:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.
(c)	Shift Premium will not be paid for hours worked which are paid for at overtime rates except for hours worked on employee’s regular shift on a Saturday or Sunday.
Article 18
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
18.01	The following holidays will be granted with pay to all employees other than probationary employees, provided the conditions outlined in 18.02 are met: New Year’s Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving	Day
Victoria Day	Christinas Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
Civic Holiday
One floater day to be set by the Company and announced thirty (3)) days in advance.
One floater day between Christmas and New Year’s This holiday will apply to Heritage Day if proclaimed.
18.02	That the employee works his scheduled working days before and after the holiday unless he is absent with written permission, or due to medically certified illness of the employee or other justifiable reason later established and found acceptable to the Company.
To qualify for the paid holiday, the employee must have worked at some time during the seven (7) days preceding the holiday.
18.03	In the event that a holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company will observe such holiday on either the Friday preceding or the Monday following.
Article 19
VACATION WITH PAY
19.01	The Company agrees to provide vacation to all employees. Payment will be calculated on the employees’ earnings of the year ending June 30 at the following rates:
29
(a)	Two weeks’ vacation and four percent (4%) of earnings for service up to and including five (5) years.
(b)	Three weeks’ vacation and six percent (6%) of earnings for service over five (5) years.
(c)	Four weeks’ vacation and eight percent (8%) of earnings for service over ■fifteen (19) years.
(d)	Five (5) weeks’ vacation Htoten percint u0%) of earnings for service over twenty-five (25) years.
(e)	Six (6) weeks’ vacation and twelve (12%) percent of earnings for service over 30 years.
(f)	Employees entitled to more than two (2) weeks’ vacation will observe them as follows:
Two weeks’ vacation will be observed during the period the plant is shut down for vacation. The additional weeks will be granted at a time mutually agreed upon by the employee concerned and the Company, but in any case must be taken prior to June 30 of the following year. It is understood the additional weeks will be taken so as to not adversely affect production schedules.
19.02	Lost time while receiving Workers’ Compensation or Sick Benefits under Group Insurance shall, for the purpose of calculating vacation pay, be taken as if the employee had been paid his full regular rate of pay during such absence. This shall not apply to lost time in excess of twelve (12) months.
19.03	An employee who is disabled and eligible for Benefits under Workers’ Compensation, Weekly Indemnity (and pregnancy leave) during the vacation period, will be entitled to take vacation and receive their vacation pay at a later date as mutually arranged through his/her supervisor.
30
19.04	Maintenance employees are required to work during plant shut down to complete maintenance duties and overhaul and repair machinery, equipment and building, and their vacation schedules will be adjusted accordingly.
Employees who are not required to work will be notified at least one month prior to plant shutdown so they may''a'rrange their vacations.
19.05	The Company agrees to post a notice request... tUa nnmao /\f amnlAiiaac ti/illinr* tn u>rti*lr rlurmn n
uig mt- iianiM t-iiipivjt'VO wining, iv vrviiv uuiuig a
scheduled plant shutdown.
19.06	Total vacation pay entitlement will be given at the time of plant closure for annual vacation period, to any employee (upon request).
Article 20
REPORTING ALLOWANCE
20.01	An employee who reports for work at the commencement of a regular shift shall be entitled to a minimum of four (4>hours’ pay at his or her hourly rate, or on the four (4) shift operation, the Company agrees to pay six (6) hours unless previously notified by the Company the employee shall perform such available work as the Company may assign. This does not apply in the case of steam failure, fire, flood, or other conditions beyond the Company’s control. It should be noted that the term “shift” means one full working period, as provided in Article 15 — Hours of Work.
Report-In Following Illness
20.02	An employee is expected to give prior notice when reporting for work following an illness. In the event such absence exceeds one working day, an
- 31 -
employee shall not qualify for work or pay pursuant to clause 20.01, unless he/she has informed the Plant Nurse by no later than 3:00 p.m. on the last normally scheduled work day immediately prior to the day of returning to work. Employees returning to work from Weeklv Indemnity or Workers’ Compensation claims, must provide a doctor’s certificate or obtain approval of the Plant Nurse prior to returning.
Emergency Call In Pay
20.03	If an emergency arises and an employee is called into work outside of his normal working hours, he shall be paid the greater of actual time worked at the rate of time and one half (VA) or four (4) hours’ pay.
Jury Duty
20.04	The Company shall pay to any employee who mav be reauired to serve as a Juror, the difference, if any between the amount paid to them for Jury Service and the amount they would otherwise have earned for their regular scheduled hours during the same period of time, on condition that proof ofsuch service and fees received is provided by the employee.
Tool Allowance
20.05	All employees in Yarn Mechanical/Mainte-nance and Maintenance labour groups shall, receive ten (10) cents per hour in addition to the hourly rate which is applicable to their classification for all hours worked.
First Aid Attendants
20.06	First Aid Attendants holding a qualifying certificate will be assigned responsibility as required by the Medical Centre Supervisor and receive an additional twenty (20) cents per hour above job rate.
- 32 -
Article 21
EMPLOYEES INJURED
21.01	Employees who are injured while at work and have to go home because of such injuries shall be paid for the balance of the shift on which the injury occurred
Article 22 WAGES
22.01	The Labour Groups and Wage Rates to be paid
pursuant to this Agreement are as follows:
(a)	Newly hired employees will be paid at a rate of fifty (50) cents per hour less than job rate for the first four hundred (400) hours worked.
Employees being trained as a result of obtaining job posting will be paid a rate of twenty (20) cents per hour less than job rate for a period not exceeding four hundred (400) hours worked, except for Yarn Mechanics who will be paid one dollar ($1.00) per hour below the Yarn Mechanics rate for the two thousand (2,000) hours training period.
(b)	Operations not covered or new operations that come into use will have wage rates set in line with Labour Groups listed below.
(c)	If during the lifetime of this Agreement any employee feels that his job has changed sufficiently to warrant reclassification, this matter shall be handled through the normal Grievance Procedure.
(d)	Employees working in the capacity of Lead Hand will be paid at a rate of twenty-live (25) cents per hour more than the Job Rate for the classification of employees they are directing.
Normal job posting will apply with first opportunity given to candidates from the classification of employees which they are directing.
- 33 -
Labour Group 4 Tufter Operator BCF Twister Twister Q.C. Checker Autoclave Operator
Card Tender............
Labour Group 5 Balepress Operator. . , . . , ,
Labour Group 6 j Tufter Operator 1
i, Spinner.................
. Labour Group 7 ' Buffer (Mechanic)........
Labour Group 8 Yarn Mechanic. Tradesman 3...
Labour Group 9
Tradesman 2.............................................
An apprenticed Journeyman working in his own trade.
Labour Group 10
Tradesman 1.............................................
An apprenticed Journeyman working in his own trade with more than one ticket that the company uses.
10.49
10.56
10.70
10.77
11.78 12.24
13.04
13.44
11.02
11.09
4-1 2-3
11.30
12.31 12.77
13.57
13.97
Labour Group 4 Tufter Operator BCF Twister Twister Q.C. Checker Autoclave Operator
Card Tender . . . . ,..................................... 11.54
Labour Group 5
Bale Press Operator....................................... 11.62
Labour Group 6 i Tufter Operator 1
^ Spinner ................................................. 11.77
Labour Group 7
I	Buffer (Mechanic)....................................... 11.85
Labour Group 8
Yarn Mechanic............................................. 12.96
Tradesman 3............................................... 13.46
Labour Group 9
Tradesman 2............................................... 14.34
An apprenticed Journeyman working in his own trade.
Labour Group 10
Tradesman 1............................................... 14.78
An apprenticed Journeyman working in his own trade with more than one ticket that the company uses.
12.12
12.20
12.35
12.43
13.54
14.05
14.93
15.37
Notes:
1	Any Tradesman III who has successfully completed a course of at least sixty (60) hours duration which has been identified and recommended by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Colleges and Universities, and approved by the Company as being a necessary part of their day to day job function and responsibility will be paid a maximum additional allowance of forty (40) cents Der hour over and above his original certification. It is clearly understood that although some employees may hold several such certificates, only one (1) forty (40) cents premium will be approved.
2	Any of our existing Tradesmen who wish to enter the Apprenticeship Program and are asked to go to school, will receive their base rate of pay while at school. To qualify for payment, U.I.C. payment stubs must be submitted within thirty (30) days of time spent attending each school period, so the difference in loss can be calculated to make up the shortage in earnings to base rate.
Apprenticeship Schedule:
For }}?£>$£ ,'nrrUjrH in .Thwernment. Certified .Programs —
Experienced Earned	1989	1990
First 1000 hours training	$10.19	$10.72
After 1000 hours training	10.39	10.92
After 2000 hours training	10.64	11.17
After 4000 hours training	10.94	11.47
After 6000 hours training	11.39	11.92
After 8000 hours training	12.39	12.92
After obtaining certificate	13.04	13.57
OUT.
Our Apprenticeship Program will be governed by the rules and regulations of the Apprenticeship and Tradesman’s Qualifications Mil, but limited to academic qualification of at least Grade 12 or equivalent, in the subjects required for the Apprenticeship under consideration.
Completion of Apprenticeship does not guarantee employment. Employees become eligible for application through normal job posting procedure when permanent vacancies exist.
Article 23
GROUP INSURANCE
23.01	The cost of the Group Insurance Plan will be shared on the following basis, beginning at the first of the month immediately following three (3) months service.
(a)	The Company will pay 100% of the cost of hospital, surgical and medical benefits through O.H.I.P. as well as the Extended Health Care benefits currently provided.
(b)	The Company will pay 80% of the cost of Life Insurance and Weekly Indemnity with the employees paying the remaining 20%.
(c)	Any change in the cost of the Group Insurance Plan during the Life of this Agreement will be shared on the same basis.
Summary Of Benefits
O.H.I.P.
23.02	Provides hospital, surgical and medical benefits. Standard ward accommodation.
Semi-Private Hospital (Optional)
23.03	Semi-Private Hospital accommodation is available on a voluntary contribution basis to employees and their families.
Extended Health Care
23.04	Employees coverages are as per details in the current booklet titled “Your Group Health Benefits” as given to each employee.
Weekly Indemnity
23.05	Benefits for Weekly Indemnity will be paid at 60% of basic earnings to the limit of the current Unemployment Insurance Commission Maximum Weekly Benefit for a maximum of twenty-six (26)
weeks commencing the first day (1st) day of an accident and the fourth (4th) day for sickness.
Life Insurance
23.06	All eligible employees — $15,000.00.
Paid-up Life Insurance at Retirement
23.07	Employees with five (5) or more years’ service at normal retirement (age 65) receive a paid-up Life Insurance Polio} for:
—	5 to 15 years’ service — $2,000.00
—	over 15 years’ service — $2,500.00
Dental Care Benefits
23.08	The company will pay 50% of the cost of dental care premiums with the employees paying the remaining 50%.
23.09	For employees with one (1) year or more seniority, the Company shall maintain all benefits while on Maternity Leave of Absence for a maximum period of seventeen (17) weeks.
23.10	The Company reserves the right to change the carrier for the Group Insurance Plan including Life Insurance, Extended Health Benefit and Weekly Indemnity, provided that if the Company changes the insurance carrier, there will be no loss of benefits to the employees.
23.11	More detailed information regarding employees’ benefits is provided in the policies and documents issued to Harding Carpets. In the event of any variation between the information in this summary and the provisions of the policies and documents, the latter will prevail.
Article 24 PENSION PLAN
24.01	The employees Pension Plan is hereby made a part of this Agreement, and the Company agrees to supply all eligible employees with a hand book.
Article 25
BEREAVEMENT PAY
25.01	Should a bereavement occur in an employee’s immediate family (spouse, children, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, daughter-in-law, son-in-law), they shall be granted a leave of absence not to exceed twenty-four QA working hours.
In the case of brother-in-law and sister-in-law, one (1) day will be granted upon request.
Note:
All approved above mentioned time so lost will be reimbursed at the employee’s regular hourly rate or hage	thS leSYC includes
attending the funeral of the deceased.
All time off granted for bereavement must be taken at the time of occurence of the death and such time off cannot be compounded with other benefits.
To qualify under this clause for a common-law relationship, the employee must previously have changed his or her documents for insurance beneficiaries, etc., to the person now claimed and be on record as such in our personnel tiles.
This clause recognizes Common-Law Spouses and children only.
42
Article 26
BULLETIN BOARDS
26.01	The Union shall have the right to use the Bulletin Boards in the plant for the purpose of posting notices, etc., provided that all such notices shall first have been approved by the Company.
Article 27
HEALTH AND SAFETY
27.01	The Company will make all reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during working hours.
27.02	The Company will supply employees with protective clothing as outlined as follows at no cost to the employee and these must be “properly” worn at all times to ensure the employees’ safety and/or health:
(a)	Hairnet or Company approved caps.
(b)	Hard hats for maintenance employees.
(c)	Steel-toed rubber boots for dyehouse employees.
(d)	Difference in cost to maximum of $5.00 on original purchase of prescription safety glasses if their wearing is the result of a department or plant mle.
(e)	A Safety Shoe Allowance of fifty (50) dollars per person per twelve (12) month period will be permitted as reimbursement toward the purchase of a pair of approved safety footwear purchased on or after January 1 of the current year, to all employees having a minimum of six (6) months’ service credits prior to the time of purchase.
27.03	The parties hereto agree that a Plant Safety Committee will be maintained in order to promote safety in the plant. The Committee will be composed
- 43 -
of an equal number from management and the Union and will meet monthly.
27.04	Members of the Safety Committee will be paid at their regular rate of pay for time lost while attending safety meetings.
Article 28
COMPANY REGULATIONS
28.01	It is understood and agreed that the employees will respect and abide by the Company’s rules, regulations and practices, which may be in force from time to time.
Article 29
TERMINATION-CLAUSE
29.01	This Agreement signed and entered into as of the 1st Day of January. 1989 will he effective from that date until the 31st day of December. 1990 and shall continue automatically thereatter tor annual terms of one (1) year, unless notice is given in writing by either party of their intention to modify, amend, or terminate this Agreement within the 90 day period immediately preceding the date of Termination of said Agreement.
29.02	In the event of such notification being given as to the revision of the Agreement, the party initiating such action shall enclose a copy of its Proposed Amendments with its notification and within fifteen (15) days of notification, or within such longer time as may be mutually agreed upon the parties shall commence negotiations.
29.03	If pursuant to such negotiations, an Agreement is not reached on the renewal or amendment of
- 44 -
this Agreement, or the making of a new Agreement prior to the current expiry date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until a new Agreement is signed between the parties or until Conciliation Proceedings under the Ontario Labour Relations Act have been completed, whichever date occurs the earlier.
29.04	In witness whereof each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be signed by their duly authorized representatives; this 24th day of January, 1989.
29.05	This Contract constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties and supersedes and replaces all previous Agreements.
ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY:
R. Schumann J. ShefFer
C.	K. Thompson
ON BEHALF OF THE UNION A.C.T.W.U. LOCAL 1857:
R. Nolan J. Wensley B. Charters T. Hesslegrave
D.	Grant-Hose D. LeClair
GREATER TORONTO TEXTILE JOINT BOARD: B. Charters, Business Agent Pat Sullivan, Joint Board Manager
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, AFL-CIO, CLC:
J. Alleruzzo, Canadian Director
PART II
EMPLOYEE’S GUIDE
It is necessary for the members of any organization to observe certain regulations in order to make the cooperative effort a success. Our rules at Harding Carpets are not designed to restrict the individual, out to protect you by assuring safe working conditions and equal treatment. For this reason we have provided the following brief outline:
PAY
Employees are paid each Friday by cheque. Certain deductions, such as income tax and unemployment insurance, are required by law. Deductions under the Retirement Income Plan and Union Dues are also compulsory. Other deductions may be made only with the authorization of the employee which would include Group Insurance, purchase of savings bonds and charitable donations.
TIME CLOCK INFORMATION
All employees must punch their time cards when commencing and finishing work.
SMOKING PRIVILEGES
Smoking is not allowed in the plant, except during specified periods and then only in areas designated for this purpose by management. It is essential for the safety and security of all concerned that this rule be strictly adhered to.
PLANTRULES
The purpose of these rules and regulations is not to restrict the rights of anyone, but to define them and protect the rights of all and ensure co-operation. Committing any of the following violations will be sufficient grounds for disciplinary action ranging from reprimand to immediate discharge, depending upon the seriousness of the offence in the judgement of management.
1	Falsification of personnel or other records.
2	Failure to punch your own time card, punching card other than your own, or permitting your card to be punched by another.
3	Absence from work or late arrival at place of work. It is each employee’s responsibility to notify his Foreman of any absence, telling him the probable length of absence and the reason for absence.
4	Leaving work assignment or plant during working hours without permission or failure to return to work after lunch period without permission.
5	Distracting the attention of others, or otherwise causing confusion by unnecessary demonstration of any kind on Company premises.
6	Creating or contributing to disorderly or unsanitary conditions.
7	Possession of weapons on Company premises.
8	Failure or refusal to follow the instructions of supervision or to do your job assignment. (Do your work assignment and follow instructions; any complaint may be taken up later through your Foreman).
- 47 -
9	Operation of machines, tools, or equipment to which you have not been specifically assigned.
10	Making waste unnecessarily; faulty or careless workmanship.
11	Horseplay, scuffling, running or throwing things.
12	Wasting time or loitering in toilets or on any Company property during working hours.
13	Smoking, except in specifically designated areas and during specified periods.
14	Assaulting, threatening, intimidating, coercing, or interfering with employees or supervision.
15	Soliciting, or collecting contributions for any purpose whatsoever on Company premises, without the specified approval of Management.
16	Distributing literature, written or printed matter of any description on Company premises, without the specific approval of Management.
17	Posting or removal of notices, signs or writing in any form on bulletin boards or Company property without the specific approval of Management.
18	Misuse or unauthorized removal of employee lists, blue prints, Company records, or confidential information of any nature.
19	Careless use, misuse or abuse of any tools, equip ment, materials, products, or other property, owned by other employees or by the Company, or in the Company’s custody.
20	Restricting output.
- 48 -
21	The making or publishing of false, vicious, or malicious statements concerning any employee, any member of supervision, the Company, or its products.
22	Abusive language to other employees or supervision.
23	Fighting.
24	Theft or misappropriation of property of
____I_________/'■'«_________._____n_______________
ciiiyiuj'cca, ut ui uic vAsmt'auy, ux m me v^mipaxi/ »
custody.
25	Possession or consuming of alcoholic beverages, narcotic drugs inhaling of any substance to create an hallucinary effect on Company property or while on job assignment. Reporting to work under the influence of alcohol or narcotic drugs, when suffering side effects from alcoholic or narcotic drugs.
26	Sabotage or deliberate destruction of any property belonging to the Company, its employees, or in the Company's custody.
27	Disregard of safety rules or common safety practices.
28	Immoral conduct or indecency.
29	Throwing refuse or objects on the floors or out the windows.
30	Stopping work or making preparation to leave work (such as washing up or changing clothes) before lunch period or authorized quitting time.
31	Repeated violations of plant or safety rules.
49
SAFETY RULES
Harding Carpets endeavours to make working conditions in the plant as safe as possible. The purpose of the entire Safety Program is to protect you from injury. The following are general safety rules applicable to all employees. Specific safety instruction for certain jobs will be issued by supervision where necessary.
1	No machinery should be operated without authority or without a thorough knowledge of the method of operation.
2	Machinery should never be set in motion without definitely ascertaining that no one is in a position to be injured.
3	Guards and other safety devices are provided for your protection. They must not be removed except by authorization of foreman, and then replaced immediately after operation for which authority was given to remove guard or fixture.
4	Report defective guards, equipment, or machinery not operating correctly to your foreman immediately.
5	Stop your machine before you leave it; when oiling, cleaning or adjusting, switch off the motor, see that the belt is on the loose pulley, and if possible lock
6	Never distract the attention of other operators. You may cause them injury.
7	Where danger exists from dust, flying chips, splinters, grinding, etc., shatterproof goggles must be worn.
8	It is laid down that safety hair nets or caps MUST be worn by employees working on or near machines or
- 50 -
revolving shafts etc. They MUST be used. This is a Provincial regulation and the employer and employee are equally liable for a fine for non-observance.
9	Keep space around your machine, passageways, etc., clear of surplus materials, to prevent tripping into machinery.
10	Notify your foreman if the floor around your machine .is mil" stipper}', broken sr. h&d condition,
so that this may be rectified.
11	Do not wear rings, loose fitting clothing or loose ties near machinery or other moving shafts, etc.
12	Anticipate rough and jagged edges on all material when lifting.
13	Carefully wash hands free from grease or oil at the end of a shift, and before eating food to avoid certain types of poisoning, Methylated spirits and similar degreasing agents cause a skin irritation and should not be used.
14	Electrical equipment should never be interfered with. Report to foreman who will send for electrician to effect any repairs, adjustments or overhauls.
15	To avoid strains and ruptures, stand firmly on both feet, as close to the work as possible, slightly bending the knees. This posture permits the even distribution of the necessary effort.
16	If you are injured, no matter how slightly, report to your foreman for treatment. It should be borne in mind that a slight scratch or cut, if neglected, may lead to the loss of a limb or even cause death. A proper record of all injury and treatment given must be kept by the Plant Nurse.
- 51 -
17	Do not wear rubber soled shoes, especially in wet or oily places. Wear safety shoes to prevent injury to the feet.
18	See that ladders have proper safety feet or hooks, or are tied to prevent slipping. Report to your foreman any that are unprotected, broken or unsafe.
19	Larking and horseplay are a common cause of injuries. Discourage anyone attempting it.
If any of the above rules are not clear to you — ask your foreman.
1	Learn the specific tire hazards involved in your work.
2	Learn the location of the nearest extinguisher and the proper use of such equipment.
3	Submit any questions regarding fire precaution to your supervisor.
FIRE PROTECTION
- 52 -