Agreement
be tween
HARDING CARPETS (Brantford)
A Division of National FibreTech Inc.
and the
"NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA)
AND ITS LOCAL 40"
and
PLANT RULES AND REGULATIONS
August 2nd, 1995
*****

oo'nwCo'7/>x
INDEX
PART 1 - AGREEMENT
Article
No.
1
2
3
4
5
6 '7 8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
General Purpose..................
Union Recognition................
Union Security & Check Off.......
Reservation of Management Rights.
Strikes & Lockouts...............
Union Shop Committee.............
Stewards.........................
Grievance Procedure..............
Arbitration......................
Seniority........................
Layoff......................... . .
Recall...........................
Transfer.........................
Promotion........................
Hours of Work. ............... .. .
Rest Period......................
Wash-up Period...................
Legal Holidays...................
Vacation with Pay................
Wages............................
Overtime Pay.....................
Shift Premium...............
Report Pay.......................
Emergency Call Pay...............
Employees Injured................
Bereavement Clause...............
Jury Duty........................
Group Insurance Plan.............
Employees' Pension Plan..........
Health & Safety..................
Bulletin Boards..................
Company Regulations..............
Termination Clause...............
Schedule A.......................
Page
3
3
4
5 5 5 7 7
11
12
16
18
19
21
22
22
23
23
24 26
30
31
32
32
33 33
33
34
35
36
36
37 37 37
PART II
Employee's Guide.................................. 38
Safety Rules..................................... 41
1
PART 1
This Collective Agreement made and entered into as of the 2nd day of August, 1995
By and between:
HARDING CARPETS (Brantford)
A Division of National Fibre Tech Inc.
Hereinafter designated as the "Company"
and the
"National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada) and
its Local 40"
Hereinafter designated as the "Union"
2
Article 1 GENERAL PURPOSE
1:01 The general purpose of this Collective Agreement
is to provide for the general welfare of the Company and its employees, to further promote and improve the good relations existing between the parties in a spirit of good will, tolerance and understanding.
NO DISCRIMINATION
1:02 The Company and the Union agree that there will be no intimidation, discrimination, interference, restraint, or coercion exercised or practised by either party against any employee because of an employee's race, colour, nationality, ancestry, place of origin, religious or political beliefs, sex, marital status or age.
Article 2
UNION RECOGNITION
2:01 The Company agrees to recognize the Union as the sole and exclusive Bargaining Agency for its employees, excluding:
a)	Department	Heads, Foremen, Fore ladies,
Watchmen, 1st and 2nd Class Engineers, and all others having power	to hire, suspend or
dismiss employees.
b)	Executive	and office	employees, including
designers,	and all	others engaged in a
confidential capacity.
3
Article 3
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK OFF
3:01 The Company agrees that all present employees subject to this Agreement, except new employees during their probationary period, shall become and remain members of the Union in good standing as per the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union.
3:02 New employees shall make application for membership in the Union on forms furnished by the Union at the time of their hiring, and shall become and remain members of the Union in good standing as per the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union.
3:03 The obligation of the Company to dismiss employees who fail to remain members in good standing shall arise only if the Union furnishes evidence that the employees' connection with the Union has been terminated	for reasons which	are just and
equitable.
3:04 The bona fides of the action under this clause may be subject to review through grievance procedure and arbitration, if necessary, having due regard to the fact that in any event the Company is obliged to deduct Union dues from all eligible employees for the duration of this Agreement.
3:05 The Company agrees that it will, for the full period of this Agreement, deduct weekly from the earnings of all eligible employees union dues and remit monthly the money so deducted to the person designated by the Union, whose receipt therefore shall be Considered as a discharge to Harding Carpets' for the amount so deducted.
3:06 The Company further agrees that it will deduct weekly from the earnings of all new employees union du es, as per the constitution and bylaws of the union, and remit same monthly to the person designated by the Union, whose receipt therefore shall be considered as a discharge to Harding Carpets for the amount so deducted.
4
Article 4
RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4:01 Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted as limiting the Company in any way in the exercising of the regular and customary functions of Management.
Article 5
STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
5:01 The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockouts of its employees and the Union agrees that there will be no strikes or other collective action which will stop or interfere with
production.
Article 6
UNION SHOP COMMITTEE
6:01 In order to establish an orderly procedure for the handling of grievances and disputes, the Union shall appoint a Committee to be known as the Union Shop Committee, such committee not to exceed
four (4) in number.
6:02 The Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of the Shop Committee.
6:03 The Shop Committee shall be organized as follows:
a)	Union Stewards will be designated as set out below in Article 7 - Stewards.
5
b) For the purpose of meeting with the Management as outlined in Article 8 - Grievance Procedure paragraph 8;02 Step 3 and 4,
1)	The Union Steward from the shift of the area involved.
2)	The Chairman of the Shop Committee.
3)	The other two (2) members of the Shop Committee to be selected by the Union.
6:04 The Union acknowledges that Stewards and Union Officers have duties to perform on behalf of the Company, and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without arranging the matter with
their foreman, or immediate supervisor, and when resuming their regular duties, they will report to their foreman or supervisor, and will give reasonable explanation which may be requested with respect to their absence.
6:05 It is clearly understood that Union Officers and
Stewards will not absent themselves from their
regular duties unreasonably in order to deal with the grievances of employees, or with other Union business. The Company will compensate such employees €or time spent in handling grievances and attending meetings with Management, at their regular rate of pay.
6; 06 The Company will pay the union negotiating team an aggregate of 28 0	hours for the time	spent
negotiating a new collective agreement
6
Article 7 STEWARDS
7:01 There shall be one (1) Steward for the employees of the areas and shifts listed below:
Day Shift
1.	Wet Processing
2.	Finishing
3.	Tufting
4.	Material Handling
5.	Maintenance
Afternoon Shift
6.	Wet Processing
7.	Finishing
8 . Tufting, Maintenance and Material Handling Night Shift
Wet Processing
Finishing
Tufting, Maintenance and Material Handling
Article 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Should grievances arise between the Company and the Union or employees as to the meaning and application of the provisions of this Agreement or as to the compliance by either
party with any of its obligations under this Agreement or should there be any complaint or grievance by any employee or the Union or the Company, there shall be no suspension or interruption of work on account of such grievances. The settlement of such grievance shall be handled in the following manner, subject to the provisions of paragraph 9:05.
Both parties agree that section 44	(6) of the
Ontario Labour Relations Act will not apply in respect to this Collective Agreement.
7
9.
10.
11.
8:01 a)
8:01 b)
8:02 STEP 1:	Verbally between the employee and his immediate supervisor; The employee may be accompanied by his Union Steward, if he desires such assistance. The decision of the Supervisor shall be made within twenty-four (24) hours.
STEP 2:	If the immediate supervisor fails to settle the grievance satisfactorily the Steward shall reduce the grievance in writing i n quadruplicate on forms to be supplied by the Company. The Steward shall present the copies of the grievance to the Supervisor for his written disposition, which will be given within two (2) working days.
STEP 3:	Failing settlement at Step 2 the Chairman of the Shop Committee shall discuss the matter with the next level of supervision within three (3) working days and endeavour to effect a settlement. A decision at this level shall be made within three (3) working days.
STEP 4:	The Chairman of the Shop Committee may present the grievance t o the designated representative of Management who shall consider the grievance at a meeting with the Shop Committee. Such meeting will be held within five (5) working days of the presentation of the grievance to the designated representative of Management. His written answer shall be given to the Chairman of the Shop Committee not later than five (5) working days after the meeting. It is agreed that a National Representative of the Union may be present at this step at the request of either of the parties.
	00
8:03 If the Company has a grievance, it shall be taken up with the Shop Committee designated by the Union and the representative designated by the executives of the Company. If the Union has a policy grievance such grievance may be filed at Step 4 of the Grievance Procedure. A policy grievance is defined as and limited to one which alleges an actual violation of a specific provision of this Agreement and which could not otherwise be resolved at a lower step of the grievance procedure because of the nature and scope of the grievance.
8:04 If it is found after investigation that an employee • has been wrongly dismissed, demoted or suspended, such employee shall be re-instated and paid at his or her wage rate or average earning for any time lost through the dismissal, demotion or suspension, or by any other arrangement which may be deemed just and equitable in the opinion of the representative of the Management and the Union.
8; 05 All decisions arrived at by agreement between the
Company and the Shop Committee shall be binding upon the Company and the employees.
8:06 Any and all time limits in the Grievance Procedure may be extended by mutual agreement in writing of the parties hereto; however, unless otherwise mutually agreed, a grievance will be deemed to have been abandoned if the Union fails:
1.	to proceed to Step 1 within thirty (30) working days from the time of the alleged incident.
2.	to process a grievance from one step to the next within ten (10) days or receipt of a decision at Steps 1, 2, or 3.
3.	or, if the Union fails to request arbitration within thirty (30) days of receipt of the decision at Step 4.
9
8:07 DISCHARGE
A claim made by an employee who has acquired seniority rights that he has been discharged without just cause will be treated as a grievance if a written statement of the grievance is lodged with the Management within ten (10) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company. A discharged person may interview his committee man for a reasonable period of time, if he so requests, before leaving the Company's premises. The preliminary steps of the grievance procedure shall be eliminated in such cases, and discussion of the grievance shall commence at Step 4 of the Grievance Procedure. Such a grievance may be resolved by confirming the Company's action in discharging the employee, or by re-instating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is considered just and equitable in the opinion of the parties or of any Board of Arbitration to which the matter is referred.
8:08 At any stage of the Grievance Procedure, including, Arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned and any necessary witnesses and relevant records, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant, to view disputed operations and to confer with the necessary witnesses.
8:09 After one (1) year has elapsed form the date of any discipline, such discipline will be removed from the employees' record and destroyed. Such discipline will not be used against the employee in the future.
10
Article 9 ARBITRATION
9:01 In the event that the grievance or dispute cannot be satisfactorily settled by the methods outlined above, the matter shall be referred to a Board of three arbitrators, one of such arbitrators to be appointed by the Company, one by the Union, and the third arbitrator to be mutually agreed upon by the other two arbitrators, provided that in the event of the failure of the two arbitrators, to agree upon a third arbitrator, they shall request the assistance of the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario in the selection of such third arbitrator, who shall be a resident of the Province of Ontario.
9: 02 No person may be appointed'as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
9:03 Each member of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it, and the parties will jointly bear the expenses of the chairman of the Arbitration Board, if any.
9:04 No matter may be submitted to Arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous
steps of the Grievance Procedure.
9:05 The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, nor to deal with any matter not covered by the Agreement.
9:06 The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of such Board will be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
11
Article 10
SENIORITY
10:01 The principle of seniority based on length of continuous service with the Company within the bargaining unit, shall govern in the event of promotions, transfers, layoffs and recalls, subject to the following provisions:
10:02 a) Plant wide seniority shall mean seniority within the bargaining unit and shall govern as noted.
b)	Job classification seniority shall mean seniority within a given occupation.
c)	Company service shall mean years of continuous service with the Company and shall govern in respect to pensions, vacations and group insurance.
10:03 a) A new employee will serve a probationary period of sixty (60) days worked before acquiring seniority rights. If an employee is laid off during his probationary period and if he is recalled he will acquire seniority rights when he has worked sixty (60) days in any consecutive six (6) month period, in which event, his seniority date will be a date sixty (60) scheduled working days prior to the date on which his seniority rights were acquired.
b) Time absent when on Worker's Compensation shall not be subtracted from a probationer's seniority credits but is to be computed after he has worked sixty (60) days.
10:04 Seniority lists shall be kept up to date by
quarterly revisions. Copies of the lists will be issued to Union Officials and Stewards. An employee's seniority record will be made available to him on request. With the exclusion of clerical errors, seniority lists shall be final thirty (30) days after being issued, however, it is agreed that this paragraph shall be administered fairly and reasonably.
12
10:05 Promotions to supervisory positions shall not be subject to the provisions of this Agreement. An employee who has been transferred from the bargaining unit and is subsequently transferred back to the bargaining unit shall retain his seniority. However, he shall not accumulate more than three (3) years additional seniority prior to his return.
10:06 It is clearly understood that Foremen and
Assistant Foremen will only perform jobs related to their positions.
10:07 In the event of a lay-off or recall, an employee will have choice of shifts within his job classification in accordance with his plant wide seniority.
10:08 TERMINATION - Employment is terminated when:
a)	An employee is dismissed and not re-instated,
b)	An employee quits.
c)	An employee is absent three (3) consecutive working days without notification acceptable to the Company, unless such absence is later
justified by illness verified by Doctor’s certificate. Such verification when requested, shall be furnished without
unreasonable del-ay.
d)	An employee refuses recall under Article 12, 12:03 below.
e)	An employee who has accumulated less than two
(2) years service with the Company is laid off for a period equivalent to his / her length of service or an employee who has accumulated two (2) years or more service with the Company is laid off for a period of more than two (2) years.
f)	An employee retires or is retired in accordance with the Company’s retirement policy.
13
10:09 An employee shall continue to accumulate seniority under the following conditions:
a)	During any absence caused by an illness or
accident verified by a doctor.	Except in
cases coming under the Worker’s Compensation Act, an employee will not accumulate additional seniority when absent more than one year due to verified illness or accident.
b)	During an absence granted by the Management in writing.
c) During pregnancy and parental -leave as provided in Article 10.10.
10.10 PREGNANCY AND PARENTAL LEAVE
An employee’s entitlement to pregnancy leave and parental leave will be as follows, unless a leave of greater benefit is provided under the Employment Standards Act of Ontario:
a)	The employee will, if possible, give the Company at least two (2) weeks notice of intention before commencing pregnancy and/or parental leave.
b)	The Company will continue its benefit premiums and pension contributions during pregnancy and parental leave as required by the Employment Standards Act.
c)	If the employee does not specify the end date of the leave, it will be assumed that the maximum leave entitlement is being taken. The employee will give at least two (2) weeks notice of any change in the end date of the leave.
d)	A seniority employee who is pregnant is entitled to a combined pregnancy and parental leave of up to 35 weeks after the birth of the child, or up to one (1) year after the commencement of the pregnancy leave, whichever is the longer period of time.
14
e)	An employee who is a new father or an employee who is an adoptive parent is entitled to a parental leave of up to eighteen (18) weeks, beginning within 35 weeks after the birth or after the child first comes into the custody and care of a parent.
f)	An employee who is delivered of a stillborn child after the beginning of the 16th week before the expected date of birth is entitled to the leave provided in paragraph (d) above.
g)	An employee who gives birth prematurely and whose child is consequently hospitalized
is entitled to discontinuous maternity leave. The employee may return to work before the end of her maternity leave by replacing the most junior employee in the bargaining unit provided that she is qualified and willing to perform the job. The employee may then complete her maternity leave when the child's condition no longer requires hospital care.
h)	A seniority employee returning from pregnancy leave and/or parental leave will be reinstated to his/her former position, or an equivalent position if the position no longer exists, with no loss of seniority.
10.11	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
A leave of absence up to one week may be granted for personal reasons upon application of the employee and approval by his/her Foreman. Requests in excess of one week must be forwarded along with recommendations, to Personnel for further Management approval. Such leaven will not be unjustly withend.
15
Article 11
LAYOFF
11:01 When it is necessary to reduce the working force the following procedures will apply providing it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work that is available.
a)	Probationary and temporary employees will be laid off first. (A probationary employee is defined as a new employee during his / her first sixty (60) days worked or an employee who has been promoted or transferred during his / her probationary period as set out in Article 20:01. A temporary employee is defined as one who is hired for a limited period and / or for a specific purpose) . Probationary employees on jobs to which they have been promoted or transferred will be laid off in accordance with their plant wide seniority after they have completed the required number of days worked on the job as set out in Schedule A.
b)	Employees within the affected job
classification as listed in Article 20:06 (below) will be entitled to exercise their plant wide seniority by (see 10:07):
1)	Returning to their most recent j ob Glassification and sequentially thereafter, in which they have the required number of worked days of in plant experience as set out in Schedule A, except where this bumping procedure is not feasible for reasons of age or health, the latter to be verified in writing by a doctor.
2)	Replacing the most junior employee with less plant wide seniority in Group 1.
16
3)	Relocating to another occupation if they so desire providing they have five (5) years or more plant wide seniority. It is understood that under this right, the employees cannot select their jobs and placement will be at the discretion of the Company. Employees in Groups 9 and 8 and in the job classification of Shipper’s Receiver’s Assistant and Shearhand, all tractor trailer drivers, employees in Maintenance Trades, and employees	working	under	the
Apprenticeship schedule referred to in Article 20,	20:06 below cannot be
displaced under this clause.
11:02 a) If, in the opinion of Management, it becomes impractical to continue layoff as defined in 11:01 above, the four (4) day week will go into effect. This clause is not intended to guarantee that a four (4) day week will always be maintained. If the four (4) day week extends for a period of one (1) month, the matter will be discussed with Shop Committee, and a further reduction in force may result.
11:02 b) As	production schedules are increased,
employees will be recalled from layoff according to seniority as provided in the Recall Procedure. If the work week has been increased to five (5) days prior to the recall of employees; however, the Company may, after discussion with the Union, make a limited addition to the work force if it is not practicable to meet production requirements without such recall.
11:03 1) The Company will notify an employee of his layoff before the employee goes off duty on the working day prior to his last full working day.
2) When an employee returns from sick leave, the employee he is displacing will be notified of layoff at the start of his final shift of work.
17
3) Notice requirements will not apply with
respect to the following:
a)	Probationary employees
b)	Temporary layoffs under Clause 11:04
c)	Layoffs resulting from matters beyond the Company’s control, including but not limited to fire, lightning, flood, tempest, power failure, machine breakdown and work stoppage.
11:04 The Company shall have the right to make temporary layoffs up to one (1) week by occupation regardless of the seniority position of the employee or employees affected. Temporary layoffs of more than one (1) week may be made by mutual agreement with Shop Committee, The total time that an employee may be laid off under the provisions of this clause shall be limited to six (6) working days in any one (1) agreement year except that a Legal Holiday, as enumerated in Article 18, below will not be counted as a day under the provisions of this clause. After six (6) working days have been accumulated in any one (1) agreement year, he will be permitted to exercise his seniority rights as provided in Article 11, Layoff.
Article 12 RECALL
12:01 Recall shall be according to plant wide seniority as follows:
To a job in which the employee has the required number of working days of inplant experience as set out in Schedule A, or to the employee's former job if it is available, then consideration will be given to calling the employee back to a job in which the employee will have the benefit of the normal training period, provided said job has been posted. In the case of an employee who has relocated to another occupation in accordance with the provisions of Article 11:01 B)4), such employee will not be recalled to a Service Help job until the junior employee due for recall is an employee who is classified in the occupation into which the senior employee has relocated.
18
12:02 An employee recalled to an occupation other than his own shall retain his rights in accordance with 12:01 above.
12:03 a) Recall shall mean notification by telephone to the last number listed with the Personnel Office.
b)	If an employee is unable to return to work on the day specified by the Company, his / her name will be passed over and another employee with less seniority will be re-called instead.
The senior employee who was unable to return to work on the day specified by the Company will be recalled the following week.
If the employee is the most junior, or the only one available, he / she must return as outlined in 12:03 (C) below.
c)	In all cases the recalled employees must report for work on the day specified by the Company, provided notification by telephone is received at least (two) 2 regular working days in advance.
d)	Failing contact by telephone, a registered letter will be sent to the last address on record with the Personnel Department. The registered letter will be deemed to have been received (two) 2 regular working days after the date of registration at which time 12:03 b and c above, will apply. The union will be
notified on the day an employee is sent a
registered letter.
e)	It is the employee’s responsibility to keep the Personnel Department informed of hi5 current address and phone number.
Article 13 TRANSFER
13:01 a) An employee desiring transfer to an equal or
lower paying job shall make application to the Personnel Office prior to or at the time of posting of a job vacancy.
19
k) Provided he has the necessary qualifications, selection will be according to plant wide seniority.
c)	Successful application for transfer shall be limited to one (1) per year per employee.
Only an employee with more than one (1) year’s seniority can apply under this article. An employee must stay six (6) months on a job before applying for another job change.
d)	Special consideration will be given for health reasons.
e)	A transfer can be delayed up to one (1) month by the Company for cause.
13:02 An employee permanently transferred at his own request as provided in 13:01 above, or by the Company, will receive the rate for the job to which he has been transferred.
13:03 An employee on temporary transfer up to one (1)
month or longer if mutually agreed to will receive his own rate for the balance of that shift and thereafter will be paid the rate for the job to which he has been transferred, if the transfer is to provide work in lieu of layoff. If the employee is temporarily transferred for the convenience of the Company, then the employee will be paid the higher of the two (2) rates for the balance of that shift and thereafter.
13:04 a) When an employee is permanently transferred, he will carry his plant wide seniority with him to his new job classification.
k) An employee on temporary transfer shall
accumulate seniority in his own occupation for the period he is working on temporary transfer.
20
Article 14
PROMOTION
14:01 a) Notices of vacancies in occupational classifications occurring on a given shift covered by this Agreement shall Joe posted on the Bulletin Boards for two (2) working days before being permanently filled. Application to be made to the Personnel Office.
b) Preference for promotion shall be given to the employee with the greater seniority, providing his ability is approximately equal to that of the more junior employees who apply. If a dispute arises about a promotion, the past work records of the candidates shall also be considered. An employee must stay six (6) months on a job before applying for another job change. If within fifteen (15) working days an employee is unable to perform the j,ob because of a medical condition which is acceptable to the Company, he / she will be returned to their previous job.
c)	Experience gained by an employee in a job classification other than his own cannot be claimed as ability under this Article.
d)	A promotion can be delayed up to one (1) month by the Company for cause.
e)	The Company will provide written notification to the union and to the successful applicants for promotion, prior to the vacancy being filled.
21
Article 15 HOURS OF WORK
15:01 The normal hours of work are forty (40) hours in one (1) week of five (5) days as follows:
Day Shift	7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m,
Afternoon Shift	3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
Night Shift	11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(Monday through Friday)
Employees working on such shifts will be provided with a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period.
15:02 The Union agrees to co-operate with Management in altering the hours of work in other jobs where changes will result in greater productivity, higher operating efficiencies and improved quality. However, such changes will be made only by mutual agreement between Company and Union.
15:03 Truck drivers and tractor trailer drivers may be scheduled to work hours other than as set out above, provided their overtime payment and shift premium are maintained as set out below.
15:04 For pay purposes the week commences Sunday
Midnight.	Current hours will be posted in the
Traffic Department and will not be changed except by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
Article 16 REST PERIOD
16:01 There shall be two (2) ten (10)minute rest
periods, at a time to be agreed upon for each eight (8) hour shift of work in addition to the twenty (20) minute paid lunch period specified in Article 15:01, Hours of Work.
22
Article 17 WASH-UP PERIOD
17:01 The Company will allow a period of five (5)
minutes for the purpose of washing up immediately prior to each meal period and at the end of each shift for employees working in the following job classifications:
All Maintenance Classifications Backing Applicator Latex Mixer Drugman
All other employees will work to the official stopping time of their shift.
Article 18
LEGAL HOLIDAYS
18:01 New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Two (2) floating days between Christmas Day and New Year's Day at the Company's discretion (one (1) to be applied as Heritage Day, if declared).
The above holidays will be granted, with pay, to all employees other than probationary employees provided the following conditions are met.
23
NOTE: For the purpose of this Article, "Absent"
shall mean sickness, leave of absence or layoff.
Day Before	Day After	
Holiday	Holiday	Pay
A. Absent	Worked	Yes
B. Absent	Absent	No
C. Worked	Absent	Yes
The above will not apply to employees on layoff out of seniority under 11:04 above who will be paid.
18:02 In the event that a holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company shall observe such holiday on either the Friday preceding or the Monday following.
18:03 Probationary employees who stay past the sixty (60) days worked will be paid only for the holidays which occurred after the first fifty (50) days worked of their employment, on the same conditions as above.
Article 19
VACATION WITH PAY
19:01 The Company agrees to provide vacation per
schedule below. Earnings and years of service will be calculated on the twelve (12) month period ending June 30th.
a)	Two (2) weeks vacation and four per cent (4%) of total earnings for service up to five (5) years.
b)	Three (3) weeks vacation and six per cent (6%) of earnings for service over five (5) years.
c)	Four (4) weeks vacation and eight per cent (8%) of earnings for service over fourteen (14) years.
24
d)	Five (5) weeks vacation and ten per cent (10%) of earnings for service over twenty-five (25) years.
e)	Six (6) weeks vacation and twelve per cent
(12%) of earnings for service over thirty (30) years.
f)	Employees entitled to three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks vacation will observe them as follows. Two (2) weeks vacation will be observed during the period the plant is shutdown for vacation. The shutdown period will be the two weeks prior to the Civic Holiday if mutually agreed. The third, fourth, fifth or sixth week will be granted at a time mutually agreed upon by the employee concerned and the Company, but in any case, must be taken prior t o June 30th of the following year. Employees who have earned less than their vacation pay entitlement due to a lay-off will be allowed to waive a prorated portion of their vacation time.
g)	Maintenance employees hired after August 2,
198 6 are required to work during the plant shutdown and their vacation will be rescheduled accordingly. If the above noted maintenance employees are not required to work plant shutdown, they shall be notified at least one month (1) in advance.
h)	Lost time while receiving Workmen's Compensation or Sick Benefit under Group Insurance shall, for the purpose of calculating holiday pay, be taken as if the employee has been paid his full wage rate or average earnings during such absence.
However, Vacation Pay will not be paid to an employee who has been absent from work for more than one (1) year on Workmen's Compensation.
i)	Total vacation pay entitlement will be given at the time of the plant shutdown for the annual vacation period to any employee upon request in writing prior to June 30.
25
Article 20 WAGES
20:01 Employees hired, promoted, or transferred will be paid fifteen (15) cents below the Wage Rate and increased to the appropriate Wage Rate on completion of their probationary period, sixty (60) days worked unless otherwise recommended by the Foreman.
20:02 The Company will advise the Union of operations not covered or new operations that come into use and will set wage rates in line with Labour Groups listed below. Should disagreement result concerning said rates, it will be handled through the Grievance Procedure.
20:03 If during the lifetime of this Agreement any employee feels that his job has changed sufficiently to warrant reclassification, this matter shall be handled through the normal Grievance Procedure.
20:04 When an employee is designated by the Company to train a new employee or to instruct an incumbent, he / she will be paid a premium of ten (10) cents an hour.
LEAD HANDS
20:05 Employees selected by the Company to work as Lead Hands will be paid twenty-five (25) cents per hour more than the job rate for their own
classification.
When Lead Hands are trained to the extent that they are able to perform all the jobs in their charge, they shall be paid twenty-five (25) cents per hour more than the highest paid employee under their direction.
Lead Hands appointed in the Maintenance Department shall be paid twenty-five (25) cents per hour above their own classification.
26
It is understood that the Company shall have the right to make the selection based on ability.
If none of the applicants for a Lead Hand position are accepted, then the Company may make the appointment.
Lead Hands will not be required to discipline employees in their charge.
20:06 JOB CLASSIFICATION BY LABOUR GROUP
EFFECTIVE DATES
AUG. 2/95 AUG. 2/96 AUG.2/97
LABOUR GROUP SH Service Help
$11.99	$12.17	$12.35
LABOUR GROUP 2
12.02
12.20
12,38
LABOUR GROUP 3
12.10
12.28
12.47
TRO Trimmer Operator C	Creeler/Mender
LABOUR GROUP 4 FLO Forklift Operator
12.16
12.34
12.53
LABOUR GROUP 5	12.23	12.41
AMO Printer’s Assistant MH Material Handler ML Maintenance Labour AKO JBO RI
TO	_ _ . _ .
12.60
27
AUG.2/95 AUG. 2/96 AUG.2/97
LABOUR GROUP 6	12.34	12.53	12.72
DO	Dryer Operator
LM	Latex Mixer
ACO Curing Oven-Asst. Operator MHHC Mat. Handler (Haz. Chem.)
LABOUR GROUP	7	12.46	12.65
SRA Shipper's/Receiver’s Asst.
FSRC F. G. I./Shear Relief/Comp. Op.
LABOUR GROUP	8	12.54	12.73
BA Backing Applicator SHR	Shearhand
KO	Kuster Operator
LABOUR GROUP	9	12.73	12.92
CO	Curing Oven Operator
MO	Mitter Operator
LABOUR GROUP	10	13.05	13.24
DR	Drugman
12.84
12.92
13.11
13.44
MAINTENANCE TRADES
Tradesman	(General) XV	13.70	13.90	14.11
Tradesman	(Qualified) III	14.17	14.38	14.60
General Carpenter
Construction Millwright
Industrial Millwright
Plant Electrician
Industrial Mechanic
Tradesman	(Qualified) II	15.82	16.05	16.29
Electrician
steamfitter
Industrial Machinist
Construction Millwright
Industrial Mechanic
28
AUG. 2/95 AUG.2/96 AUG.2/97
Tradesman (Qualified) I 16.24	16.48	16.73
TE	Electrician
TF	Motor Vehicle Mechanic
TM	Construction Millwright
TM	Industrial Machinist
TM	Industrial Mechanic
TP	Steamfitter
APPRENTICES SCHEDULES FOR THOSE ENROLLED IN GOVERNMENT CERTIFIED PROGRAMS
HOURS
5 X 1800 Hours
0 to 900 901 to 1800 1801 to 2700 2701 to 3600 3601 to 4500 4501 to 5400 5401 to 6300 6301 to 7200 7201 to 8100 8101 to 9000 After Trades Certification
4 x 2000 Hours
AUG.2/97
$13.05	13.27	13.52
13.36	13.58	13.83
13.68	13.70	13.95
14.00	14.22	14.47
14.32	14.54	14.79
14.64	14.86	15.11
14.96	15.18	15.43
15.28	15.50	15.75
15.60	15.88	16.13
15.92	16.14	16.39
16.24	16.46	16.71
Aug. 2/95 Aug. 2/96
0 to 900 901 to 1800 1801 to 2700 2701 to 3600 3601 to 4500 4501 to 5400 5401 to 6300 6301 to 7200 7201 to 8100
After Trades Certification
$13.05	13.27	13.52
13.44	13.66	13.91
13.79	14.01	14.26
14.14	14.36	14.61
14.49	14.71	14.96
14.84	15.06	15.31
15.19	15.41	15.66
15.54	15.76	16.01
15.89	16.11	16.36
16.24	16.46	16.71
NOTE: Apprentices - Our apprenticeship program will be governed by the rules and regulations of the Apprenticeship and Tradesman's Qualification Act.
29
Article 21 OVERTIME PAY
21:01 Overtime will be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) the wage rate or average earnings for:
a)	All time worked in excess of the normal daily hours applicable as provided in Article 15 above except when an employee voluntarily works beyond such normal hours of work to complete and eight (8) hour shift.
b)	All time worked on Saturday unless special arrangements have been made or unless such time is part of the shift commencing on Friday.
c)	All time worked (up to eight (8) hours) on the first shift following a shift change within the same work week, (work week being defined as forty (40) hours from Monday through Friday). It is understood that no employee will be required to change a shift of work within one (1) work week.
21:02 Overtime will be paid at the rate of double (2 times) the wage rate or average earnings for:
a)	All times worked on Sunday or on the Legal Holidays enumerated in Article 18 above unless such time is part of a shift commencing on the
day before or ending on the day following a Legal Holiday or is part of a shift commencing on a Sunday and ending on a Monday. This pay is in addition to the holiday pay provided under Article 18, Section 18:01 above.
b)	All time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours on any one (1) continuous shift of work.
30
21:03 a) Overtime shall be governed by the following procedure:
1.	An employee in the job classification who normally performs the work on the shift required to work.
2.	An employee who normally performs the work on the shift in the same classification by seniority.
3.	An employee in the same classification within the department by seniority. (Wet Processing; Finishing; Material Handling; Maintenance; and Tufting).
4 . After exhausting the above steps, the
Company will endeavour t o share overtime amongst all employees able to perform the overtime work.
b) The Union agrees to co-operate with Management in curbing any abuses which may arise from the above overtime arrangements.
Article 22 SHIFT PREMIUM
22:01 A premium of THIRTY (30) cents per hour shall be paid to employees working on the afternoon shift (3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.) and a premium of THIRTY (30) cents per hour shall be paid to employees working on the night shift (11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.). An afternoon shift is one starting at or after 12:00 noon, a night shift is one starting at or after 6:00 p,m.
31
Article 23 REPORT PAY
23:01 An employee who reports for work at the
commencement of a regular shift shall be entitled to a minimum of four (4) hours’ pay at his or her wage rate or average earnings unless previously notified by the Company to the contrary, provided that if requested by the Company the employee shall perform such available work as the Company may assign. This does not apply in the case of steam failure, fire, flood, or other conditions beyond the Company's control. It should be noted that the term "Shift" means one (1) full working period, as provided in Article 15 above.
23:02 An employee is expected to give prior notice when reporting for work following an illness. However, in the event such absences exceed one (1) working day, he shall not qualify for work or pay pursuant to Article 23 unless he has so informed the Personnel Department by no later than 12:00 Noon two (2) working days prior to the day that he / she will be returning to work.
23:03 Employees who receive medical clearance on a
Saturday, Sunday or Holiday will be expected to make a reasonable effort to contact their immediate supervisor, in any case they are required to at least notify the Plant Security, leaving their name, department and supervisor’s name.
Article 24
EMERGENCY CALL PAY
24:01 If an emergency arises and an employee is called
to work outside his normal working hours, he shall be paid the greater of:
a)	Time worked at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2).
or
b)	Time worked on Sunday and Legal Holidays at the rate of double time.
or
c)	Four (4) hours' pay at straight time.
32
Article 25
EMPLOYEES INJURED
25:01 Employees who are injured while at work and have to go home because of such injuries shall be paid their wage rate or average earnings for the balance of the shift on which the injury occurred.
Article 26 BEREAVEMENT
26:01 Should a bereavement occur in an employee's immediate family (Spouse, children, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in law, daughter-in-law, grandparents or grandchildren) he / she shall be granted a leave of absence of three (3) days upon request or, in the case of brother-in-law or sister-inlaw, one (1) day upon request, and shall be reimbursed at his / her wage rate or average earnings for time so lost. Employees shall not be paid pursuant to this article while on vacation or leave of absence.
Article 27 JURY DUTY
2 7.01 The Company shall pay to any employee who may be
required to serve as a juror the difference, if any, between the amount paid to him for his Jury service and the amount he would otherwise have earned for his scheduled hours during the same period of time, on condition that proof of such service and fees received is provided by the employee.
33
Article 28
GROUP INSURANCE PLAN
28:01 The cost of the Group Insurance Plan will be
shared on the following basis:
a)	The Company will pay 100% of the cost of O.H.I.P. as well as the extended health care benefits currently provided through The Insurance Carrier.
b)	Effective Aug. 2, 1995, the Company will pay 80% of the cost of Life Insurance, Weekly Indemnity and Accidental Death and Dismemberment with the employees paying the remaining 20%.
c)	The Company will pay 50% of the cost of the
Dental Care Plan.
d)	Any change i n the cost of the Group Insurance Plan during the life of this Agreement will be shared on the same basis.
See the carriers booklet for complete details of the plan.
SUMMARY OF BENEFITS:
28 :03 Semi-Private Hospital (Optional)
Semi-private hospital accommodation as mentioned in the carriers booklet is available on a voluntary contribution basis to employees and their families through the insurance carrier.
28:06 Life Insurance
All eligible employees are covered for $30,000 28 :07 Accidental Death and Dismemberment
All employees are covered for $30,000.
34
28:08 Paid-up Life Insurance at Retirement
Employees with five (5) or more years service at normal retirement receive a paid-up Life Insurance Policy for:
$2, 000.00 for service of five (5) to fifteen (15) years.
$2,500.00 for service over fifteen (15) years.
28:09 "Coverage's and benefits are those currently provided by the company under this collective agreement. The Company reserves the right to change the carrier for the Group Insurance Plan, including Life Insurance, A.D. & D. Extended Health Care, Weekly Indemnity and Dental Care Plan, provided if the Company changes the insurance carrier, there shall be no loss of benefits to the employees."
28:10 Dental Care Plan
The Dental Care Plan is provided through the Insurance Carrier. (Seethe Carriers Booklet for complete details of the plan) . The ODA schedule will change on January 1st of each contract year and will lag by one calendar year (ie January 1, 1996-1995 ODA schedule). Payment is subject to the Calendar Year maximum of $1,250. per insured.
Article 29
EMPLOYEE’S PENSION PLAN
29:01 The Current Employees' Pension Plan with Standard Life will wind up on September 30, 1995.
29:02 The New Employee Pension Plan with the Canada Wide Industrial Pension Plan (CWIPP) will commence on October 1, 1995.
29:03 The company will contribute to CWIPP for each hour in which the employee is compensated.
October 1, 1995 .18/hour August 1, 1996 ,22/hour August 1, 1997 ,25/hour
35
Article 30
HEALTH AND SAFETY
30:01 The Company shall make all reasonable provision for the safety and health of employees.
The Company and the Union shall co-operate in matters pertaining to the health and safety of employees.
Both parties further agree to abide by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1978 Statutes of Ontario, 1978, Chapter 83,
A Safety Committee, consisting of an equal number of representatives of the Company and of the Union set up in accordance with Section 8 of the Act shall hold a meeting at least once a month.
30:02 The Company will pay $70,00 towards the cost of one (1) pair of safety shoes for each employee.
The Company will also pay towards the cost of one (1) additional pair of safety shoes per contract year when proven required for employees working in the maintenance trades and in the job classifications of latex mixer and wet processing, backing applicator, and cut floor operator.
30:03 The company will pay $60,00 every two (2) years towards a pair of safety glasses provided lenses and frames are OSA approved.
Article 31 BULLETIN BOARDS
31:01 The Union shall have the right to use the Bulletin Boards in the plant for the purpose of posting notices, etc., provided that all such notices shall first have been approved by the Company.
36
Article 32
COMPANY REGULATIONS
32; 01 It is understood and agreed that the employees will respect and abide by the Company’s rules, regulations and practices, which may be in force from time to time.
Article 33
TERMINATION CLAUSE
33:01 This Agreement shall come into effect on the
second (2nd) dav of August. JJ9.5 .and shall remain in force until the first. ((list 1) _dr\r nf ■Annm-fet-1998. It shall'Be automatically renewed from
year to year thereafter unless request is made in writing by either party for modification or cancellation between the thirtieth (30th) and the ninetieth (90th) day prior to the date of termination.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Jag Bajaj	Dan Webster Jr,
Jim Nickling	Richard Preston
Brian Boyd
Dean Warner
Shirley Bowen Phil Beauvais
SCHEDULE A
Number of worked days required on job promotion or transfer before an employee’s plant wide seniority will be applied during layoff from or recall to the job:
10 days Roll-up Inspector - Kuster/Mitter
J. Box Operator-Kuster/Mitter/Ziminer/Finishing
Trimmer Operator Screen Assembler Creeler Mender
37
20 days
Forklift Operator
Material Handler Maintenance Labour Finished Goods Inspector Latex Mixer Dryer Operator Tufter Operator
Kuster Operator
Finished Goods Inspector/Shearhand -
Relief/Computer Operator Assistant Kuster Operator - Drugman Shearhand Backing Applicator
Material Handler (Hazardous Chemicals)
It is necessary for the members of any organization to observe certain regulations in order t o make the cooperative effort a success. Our rules at Harding Carpets are not designed to restrict the individual, but to protect you by assuring safe working conditions and equal treatment. For this reason, we have provided the following brief outline:
40 days
60 days
Curing Oven Operator
Curing Oven Operator Assistant
Printer Operator
Printer's Assistant
Lead Hand
Pay
Employees are paid each Thursday by cheque. Certain deductions, such as income tax and unemployment insurance, are required by law. Deductions under the Retirement Income Plan and Union dues are also compulsory. Other deductions may be made on the authorization of the employee which would include Group Insurance, purchase of savings bonds and charitable donations.
38
Time Clock Information
All employees must punch their time cards when commencing and finishing work.
Smoking Privileges
Smoking is not allowed in the plant, except during specified periods and then only in areas designated for this purpose by Management. It is essential for the safety and security of all concerned that this rule be strictly adhered to.
Plant Rules
The purpose of these rules and regulations is not to restrict the rights of anyone but rather to define and protect the rights of all while ensuring co-operation. Committing any of the following violations will be sufficient grounds for disciplinary action ranging from reprimand to immediate discharge, depending upon the seriousness of the offence in the judgement of Management.
1.	Falsification of personnel or other records.
2.	Failure to ring your own time card, ringing a card other than your own, or permitting your card to be rung by another.
3.	Absence from work or tardy arrival at place of work. It is each employee's responsibility to notify his foreman of any absence, telling him the probable length of absence and the reason for absence.
4.	Leaving work assignment or plant during working hours without permission or failure to return to work after lunch period without permission.
5.	Distracting the attention of others, or otherwise causing confusion by unnecessary demonstration of any kind on Company premises.
6.	Creating or contributing to disorderly or unsanitary conditions.
39
7. Possession of weapons on Company premises.
8. Failure or refusal to follow the instructions of supervision or to do your job assignment. (Do your work assignment and follow instructions; any complaint may be taken up later through your
foreman).
9.	Operation of machines, tools, or equipment, to which you have not been specifically assigned.
10.	Making waste unnecessarily; faulty or careless workmanship.
11.	Horseplay, scuffling, running or throwing things.
12.	Wasting time or loitering in toilets or on any Company property during working hours.
13.	Smoking, except in specifically designated areas and during specified periods.
14.	Assaulting, threatening, intimidating, coercing or interfering with employees or supervision.
15.	Soliciting or collecting contributions for any purpose whatsoever on Company premises, without the specific approval of Management.
16.	Distributing literature, written or printed matter of any description on Company premises, without the specific approval of Management.
17.	Posting or removal of notices, signs or writing in any form on Bulletin Boards or Company property without the specific approval of Management.
18.	Misuse or unauthorized removal of employee lists, blue prints, Company records or confidential information of any nature.
19.	Careless use, misuse or abuse of any tools, equipment, materials, products, or other property, owned by other employees or being the Company's or in the Company’s custody.
20.	Restricting output.
40
21.	The making or publishing of false, vicious, or malicious statements concerning any employee, or member of supervision, the Company or its products.
22.	Abusive language to other employees or supervision.
23.	Fighting.
24.	Theft or misappropriation of property of employees, or of the Company, or in the Company’s custody.
25.	Possession or consuming of alcoholic beverages, narcotic drugs, inhaling of any substance to create an hallucinary effect, on Company property or while on job assignment, Reporting to work under the influence of alcohol or narcotic drugs, when suffering side effects from alcoholic or narcotic drugs.
26.	Sabotage or deliberate destruction of any property belonging to the Company, its employees, or in the Company’s custody.
27.	Disregard of safety rules or common safety practices.
28.	Immoral conduct or indecency.
29.	Throwing refuse or objects on the floors or out the windows.
30.	Stopping work or making preparations to leave work (such as washing up or changing clothes) before lunch period or authorized quitting time.
31.	Repeated violations of plant or safety rules.
Safety Rules
Harding Carpets Limited endeavours to make working conditions in the plant as safe as possible. The purpose of the entire Safety Program is to protect you from injury. The following are general safety rules applicable to all employees. Specific safety instruction for certain jobs will be issued by Supervision where necessary.
41
1.	No machinery should be operated without authority or without a thorough knowledge of the method of operation.
2.	Machinery should never be set in motion without definitely ascertaining that no one is in a position to be injured.
3.	Guards and other safety devices are provided for your protection. They must not be removed except by authorization of foreman, and then replaced immediately after operation for which authority was given to remove guard or fixture.
4.	Report defective guards, equipment, or machinery not operating correctly to your foreman.
5.	Stop your machine before you leave it; when oiling, cleaning, or adjusting switch off the motor, see that the belt is on the loose pulley, and if possible lock your machine, to prevent accidental starting.
6.	Never distract the attention of other operators.
You may cause them injury.
7.	Where danger exists from dust, flying chips, splinters, grinding, etc., shatter-proof goggles must be worn.
8.	It is laid down that Safety Hair nets or caps must be worn by employees working on or near machines, revolving shafts, etc. They MUST be used. This is a Provincial regulation and the Employer and Employee are equally responsible for a fine for non-observance.
9.	Keep space around your machine, passageways, etc., clear of surplus materials, to prevent tripping into machinery.
10.	Notify your foreman if the floor around your machine is oily, slippery, broken or in bad condition, so that this may be rectified.
11.	Do not wear rings, loose fitting clothing or loose ties near machinery or other moving shafts, etc., for these increase the chance of accident.
42
12.	Anticipate rough and jagged edges on all material when lifting.
13.	Carefully wash hands free from grease or oil at the end of a shift, and before eating food, to avoid certain types of poisoning. Methylated spirits and similar degreasing agents cause a skin irritation and should not be used.
14.	Electrical equipment should never be interfered with. Report to foreman who will send for electrician to effect any repairs, adjustments or overhauls.
15.	To avoid strains and ruptures, stand firmly on both feet, as close to the work as possible, slightly bending the knees. This posture permits the even distribution of the necessary effort.
16.	If you are injured, no matter how slightly, report to your foreman for treatment. It should be borne in mind that a slight scratch or cut, if neglected, may lead to a loss of a limb or even cause death.
A proper record of all injuries and the treatment given must be kept by the Plant Nurse.
17.	Do not wear rubber soled shoes, especially in wet or oily places, Wear safety shoes to prevent injury to feet.
18.	See that ladders have proper safety feet or hooks, or are tied to prevent slipping. Report to your foreman any that are unprotected, broken or unsafe.
19.	Larking and horseplay are a common cause of injuries. Discourage anyone attempting it.
If any of the above rules are not clear to you -ask your foreman.
43
Fire Protection
1.	Learn the specific fire hazards involved in your work.
2.	Learn the location of the nearest extinguisher and the proper use of such equipment.
3.	Submit any questions regarding fire precaution to your supervision.