AGR

V.y.K
No.
EMF
5f » 2\‘r£S
aara jg
^-fCC
between
CANADIAN FABRICAjT ED PRODUCTS A Division of Acustar Canada, Inc.
and die
National Automobii and Agricultural Workers Union
(CAW-Carilada)
cf
Aerospace implement Canada,
Local L3l‘>
December 15, 1989
OC8&2- ^3
ARTICLE
INDEX]
1.
2. 3. 4 *
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
Seniority
11.2-11.4
11.5
11.6
Job Posting 12.1 12.2
12.3-12.6
12.7
12.8-12.13
12.14
12.15	(a)
12.19
13.
Layoffs
13.4-13
13.10
13.11
13.12
13.13
. .1
. .1 ..1
■ 1-2
Purpose..........
Recognition .......
Non Discrimination Union Security and CJl'OOlC-Off
Reservations to Mana< •sment- ......... .2-3
Union Representation*.......*............
Union Representation ■* Overtime ..........6
Grievance Procedure ....................6-10
Disciplinary Action .................... 10
9.1	NotiC' » ..................10
9.2-9.3	Discharge and
Suspei salon	........... 10-11
9.4	Suspei siion...............11
9,5-9.7	Discharge..................11
No Strikes or LoCkoU1 13 ................-11
,12
Proba tionary Employees ..12 loss »>lE seniority ....12-13 Seniority List.............13
...................13
Persians ant Vacancy ......13
Non-Ei .Igibility .........13
Genet' !L Vacancies .... 13-14 Sewer Vacancies
- Day (Shift............14-15
Disqualifications ....15-18 Tempa: isry Job Posting ...18 Tempa; iiry Transfers ..18-19 12.15(b)-12.18 Trans or Procedure
Within Department/To AnotfaH ilC Department . . , 19-20 Departments ............20-21
..................21
Geneti .'L Provision
Layof:	 21-22
Surplnia Layoff.........22-23
EXerC US seniority on
Day Siilft	.............23
NotiOi of	Layoff .•...... 23
Temporary Assignment of sewer > ................23-24
14. Recall
24
i
15.
16617
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
Model Change	Layoff ard Recall .......24-25
Annual Inventory - Cyc !le Check
Inventory ............25
..................25
General ............
Formation/Di9continuar|ce of a
Multi-Shift ........
19.1	General
........26
........26
19.2	Article}................26-28
Sewer Training Programme...............29-30
Salaried Return to the Bargaining Unit..30
.....30-31
Production Standards Hours of Work and Overtime ..............32
23.1-23.4
23.5
23.6-23.13
23.14
23.15
23.16-23.17
23.18
23.19
Workweek and
32
Paid Hoiidays • . Vacation Pay . . . Leave of Absence
Normal S h i ft s
Changer :in Starting Time..33
Overtire ............  33-34
Reporting Pay ............35
Stand-ty Allowance .......35
Call-bnck Allowance ......35
First : Minutes Late in Any Oni i Week - No Pay
Deduct: on................35
Shift Fetation in MultiShift departments........*35
..............35-38
.39-41
.41
26.1-26.3
26.4
26.5 26.6(a) 26.6(b)
26.7
26.8 26.9
26.10
26.11
Genera].................41-42
Persomnl...................42
Sick Lrave..............42-43
Pregnancy Leave ...........43
Adopti.cn Leave ......... .43
BereaveIment Pay .......43-44
Union tiff ice Leave ......44
Conviction • Arising Out of th© 'Operation of a
Motor Vehicle ..........44-45
Jury Dirty Leave ..........45
Electee office ............45
Health and Safety . . Wash-up Period and
.45-46
28.1
28.2
28.3
Period ... ■. .46-47
Wash-ujji	Period ...........46
Rest Pnriod ..............46-47
Rest Pciriod when Overtime ifi more than one hour ........................47
29. Bulletin Boards
47
U
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
LETT----
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13,
14.
15,
16. 17.
wages
•m i
,47
,47
Scald of Wages ......
30.2	Probationary starting
Rated.................47-50
30.3	Pay dn Thursday..........50
30.4	Rights Premium . ........50
30.5	Schedule "A"
Classifications ......51-52
30.6	Overpayment of Wages ....52
Cost-of-Living	Allowance ............52-55
Entry of	Plant	Premises ..............55
Interpretation	Clause ................  55
................55-63
Shilled Trades ...
Automatic Short Wee]| Benefit Plan ...63-64 Injury at Work ...
General Article ..
Duration .........
Group Insurance and Benefits
General Provisions
................  .64
..................65
.................#
Group Health Care
Administration....66
1C Funding	for	Educi	tion Purposes......67
Job	Movement	-	Sewing Department	....68-69
ary Layoff	.70
operation ..........71
Holiday Pay - Tempo: Overtime on Partial
Transport Driver (1 Multi-Shift - Hours
Overtime Scheduled one Hour or Less ..,,72
2) Hour Paid Lunch. •7 3 of Work Schedule 74-75
Committee - Drug anft Alcohol Abuse.....7 6
Job Rotation	-	Doors, ine, Dielectric and
Manual	Button	Opera : ions............77
l e Card  .... 7 8
an New Equipment ....79
..............
.............81
............82
Failure to Punch Ti Union Notification Apprenticeship Programme Tradesman's Tools CoveralIs/Snocks
S&A and WCB Return
Training - New Techiology ..............83
so Work Program ..84-85
Job Opportunity in b New Plant...........86
ilfl
18. Pay Shortage Greater (4) Hours «•••••••••	Than Four
19.	In Plant Lighting an 20.	Traffic Lights and G 21.	Distribution of Lite 22.	Health & Safety ••••	1 Fans	88 ike Path	.89 rature 		90
23.	Warehouse (City of S 24.	Contracting - Mainte 25.	Vacation scheduling 26.	Sexual Harassment- ..	tratford) 	92 nance Work	93
	
27.	Hew Hire Xntroductio 28.	20 Funding - Child C 29.	Wage Rate - Sweeper. General Maintenance 30.	Safety Shoe Allowanc 31.	Classifications Pack Assembler to be Comb 3 2. Ergnnnni r* s .........	are 	97 Janitoress,
	ar/Operator and Lned	100 			.101
11. Kmrtlei nrj Pnl i ry . , . . .	
34.	Job Assignment Pract 35.	Union Dues Deduction 36.	Wage Rate - Packer/O Leader. Fales Set-Up 37.	Qualifications and T Vj*r?*nn.i ps ......... 1	Lees	103 t for Retirees ....104 aerator, Fales Leader	105 ssting For
38. Pneumatic Attachment Machines ...........	i to Sewing
39.	Leader - Exercise Se 40.	Shift Changes for Pe 41.	Thursday Paycheque D 42.	Plant Entrance/Exit 43 - I.nrikers ............	liority	108 rsonal Reasons ....109 stribution	110 t Plant Exit Doors 111
44. Reinstated Grievance 46. Pew Rani tv 					115
4 6, Hew Hi re Sewer .....			H6
47. Wage Progression/COL	L Fold-In	117
iv
ART. 1
ARTICLE a - PURPOSE
1.1	The general purpose of this agreement
is to establish mutually Satisfactory relations between the Company and its Employees, and t o
provide m-aririnery for the I prompt and equitable disposition of grievances land to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours and wages for all employees wao are subject to the provisions of this agreement!.
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the
2.1
sole collective bargaining at its Stratford plants,
foreman, persons above technical personnel and all Those employees excluded f
set--Trtft above w*iTT not perf of a supervisory capacity proven emergency, or for thi employees and for experiment of an experimental nature cases of proven emergency absence of an operator, committee member in writing experimental work or work emergency.
gency of all employees save and except for:
e rank of foreman, ffice and salas staff, om this agreement, as rm any work oth-cr than ixcapt in the ca.s£-s of purpose of instructing al purposes. When work is required or in the the foreman, in the will notify the area irior to performing such In the cases of proven
ARTICLE 3 - NON DISCRIMINATION
3.1	There shall be no
interference, restraint or coercion
of the Company regarding membership in the Union, and/or agents shall not attempt Lo inLunidate any
and shall not, on Company t.me or premises, conduct
Union activities provided.
except
discrimination, by or on behalf
ny employee because of The Union, its members itinidate or coerce or employee of the cornpapy,
as herein expressly
3.2	The company and Union agree to observe the provisions of the Ontario Human Rights Coda 1981 Chapter S3, as amended.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
4.1	All present seniority employees, who
are members of the Union shall remain members of the
i
ART. 4
Union, aa a condition of	which membership
for the purpose of this Agreement shall be confined to the payment of initiation ifeea and dues/
4.2	Present probationary employees and
newly hired	upon completion of the
probationary period shall become and remain members of the Union, as a cone ition of employment. Membership for the purpose of this Agreement shall be confined to the payment of the initiation fee and regular monthly dues which are equally applied to all employees. Probatiorary employees as a condition of employment wil . pay monthly dues in conformity with the Constitution of the Union.
4.3	The Company will deduct from the pay of each employee, the initiaticn fee and the monthly dues authorized by the constitution of the Union, except that, initiation fee not be deducted together from
4.4	All sums deductle
with a record of those fron have been made and the amount together with a list of emplp is terminated,, transferred unit, or any employee where made shall be remitted by Financial Secretary of the Li of the month following the eml the deductions were made. Th|< Total Union Dues on the T-4 the Union.
and monthly dues will any one pay period.
d aa above, together whose pay deductions s of such deductions, yees whose employment sut Of the bargaining no deduction has been the Company to the cal Union by the 15th of the month in which a Company will include ilips as authorized by
4.5	Deductions shall
hourly employees who work receive forty (40) hours pay one month or have outstanding shall hold the Company fully of all such deductions made Agreement.
be made
from all forty (40) hours or in lieu of work in any dues owing. The Union indemnified in respect n accordance with the
ARTICLE S - RESERVATIONS TO MWAOEMENT
5.1	The Union ackno<
exclusive function of the Ccmjf> demote, transfer, layoff, d discharge any employee for claim by an employee, who has than fifty (50) calendar discharged, disciplined or s
jx
da fi
vjledges that it is the any to hire, promote, sciplina, suspend or st cause, provided a been employed for more s, that he has been dapended without just
ART. 5
cause may be the subject of with as hereinafter provided
a grievance and dealt:
*.2	The Union furth«r recognizes the right
of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and rpgpmicaJnj3jThe locatllon of the plants, the products to be manufactured, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing are solely responsibility of the Company the right to make, alter anc time, rules and regulations,
employees, but which rules ari reaulations shall not
be inconsistent with the
Agreement.
Any new or revised rules explained in detail to the prior to Implementation.
and exclusively the The Company also has enforce, from time to to be observed by the
provisions of thid
or regulations to be Union plant committee
5.3	Nothing in this agreement shall bd
the managpant in any way in tha performance of all functions of management except* those specifically abridged or modified by thid agreement.	j
« *	'•'he Company agrees that it will not;
exercise its management rights lor the purpose oi restricting or limiting the rights of its employees
herein grantefl, and the atlove functixrrrs will bd
exercised in a manner consistent with the terms of this agreement.
ARTICLE 9 - UNION REFRESSNT3 NON
6.1	The company recognizes i committee of
eight (8) to be elected or selected by the Union rnnst*tina of five f5t comm -ttee menders * one (H from the skilled trades a Ci airperson and the local Union President. The Committee shall be recognized by the Company as the grievance and negotiating uv*«n	nni on/Company negotiating .
meetings, the committee will be paid .up £o.eight_£jB-l /.-> '' hours per day (Monday tiirou jh Friday inclusive) at ~ their regular rate of pay, plus Cost of Living .( Allowance. Each committee neniber will represent a specific geographic area in the plant as designated by the Union. The plan; chairperson, at his discretion, will be permitted forty (40) hours per week on Union business at hit regular hourly rate of pay, plus cost of living allowance.
ART. «
The Company further agrees t.
a desk, chair, filing cabins
In addition to the present the Company will provide a separate enclosed office for the President and a separate enclosed office for the Union Health and saifety telephone, desk, chair and a,
p provide the Union with
t, and enclosed office.
union office facility,
An extension telephone with additional extension button will be installed and all long distance charges to that extension if*11 be paid for by the Union.
6.2	The Union will
an up-to-date list of all union representatives and the union with a list of Company will notify the unit}] be transferred, for a periofl to another department or se
_ Committee with a
filing cabinet in each.
•supgaly tlae Coapany with . committee members and the Company will supply supervisory staff. The r. if a supervisor is to 1 of one month or more, icitian.
6.3	Notwithstanding, his seniority status, the plant chairperson of the committee shall be required to work only on tjie day shift and shall have top plant seniority f^r the duration of his term of office. The chairperson upon completion of his tenure in office will return to hie Former department, and classificatipn which he held at the time of his election or selection, seniority permitting.
6.4	The Union committee members shall not be required to work on a ah ift other than the day shift and shall have top plat t wide seniority during their term of offitfSt The Union shall have the
-‘fright to appoint matching alternate committee members for any second shift activities where the second shift plant population exceeds 300 employees. Should the second shift population drop below 300
mate committee members e alternate committee
employees, the number of alts shall not exceed (2). Ot member shall be appointed for any third shift. The Company further agrees it will meet with the Union
ctioarniitiiee should the employn shift increase significantly alternate committee persons
6.5	It is underst
committee members as well a regular duties to perform, the approval of the foreman
they are respectively employ^ during their working hours.
ant level on the third to discuss additional >n that shift.
ood and agreed that i other employees have Committee members, with the department where
d shall be permitted, without- loss of pay or
ART. «
Cost o t living allowance, €o leave their regular
duties for a reasonable length of time to adjust and
present grievances in their{geographic area. Upon entering another department! the committee member shall notify the supervisor! concerned. Access by committee members during hofxrs other than regular
tricted to a reasonable illowed only when the
first shift hours must be res time period and will be personnel department representative or night plant superintendent have been properly notified as to the purpose and presence by the ' such access is on Union company.
6.6
committee person, time not paid by
Any
the
Committee Me»sers shall not be
phic area in which they nt so long as they are able work in the said
transferred out of the geogr have jurisdiction in the pi willing to perform the ava: area, except in cases of emergency, and then on a temporary basis so long as I such emergency exists. In the event of a layoff, committee members shall be continued at work as loAg as work in their respective areas and jurisdictions is available, regard3«as of their seniority, provided they are
able and willing to perform of the job in the normal instruction.
wi L
6.7	The Company
committee on all matters pro time this agreement is in ef Committee will co-operate i this agreement.
he normal requirements time, with proper job
1 meet with the plant terly arising during the rect and the Company and the administration of
The Union will have the right to have National Representatives and the President of the Union present at all meetings of Jthe Plant Committee and Management. Such meetings| shall be held at the request of either party providing an agenda is prepared and submitted at least 48 hours before the meeting except in an emergeicy. The company agrees to provide a written respons 3 to the union Committee within 5 working days.
$.8 A committee member who is an hourly rated employee shall be paid! his regular hourly rate plus cost of living allowance.
6.9	Local Executive officers .
The company agrees the president of the union will be on the day shift and pai<; at a rate of pay which is the regular rate of pay fir the classification to Wirich the President would! be normally assigned.

ART. t
During periods of production be expected to perform classification.
the President will not assignments in his/her
The President will conduct it pertains to the Local duties of Benefits Represe upon completion of his tenup to his former department, he held at the time of hie seniority permitting.
In the absence of the President the Coi recognize a Vice-President assume responsibility of th
Local Union business as Union and perform the itative. The President e in office will return Und classification which election or selection,
dent the company shall of the local Union to a President.
6.10	The Company a^lrees that the recording
secretary and financial secretary will be assigned to the first shift and will amount of time during theii
business as it pertains to the collective.agreement
ARTICLE 7 - UNION REPRESENT; iTION - OVERTIME
7.1	When overtime
geographical area of the pi will be offered the opport
the group, if 5 or more provided ne is qualified to to be done.
7.2	If 10 or more employees are required on
overtime for work throughout the plant, rather than in any one specified geographical area, the plant chairperson or his designate will opportunity to attend to U than 10 employees, to a mini on overtime far work throughout the plant, the plant Chairperson or his designate will be . given the opportunity to work provided he ' perform one of the jobs to bk done of the production shift is scheduled the President (not alternate) will perform the duties of the function.
be allowed a reasonable shift to conduct local
is scheduled in a alnt, the committee person unity to work as part of Employees are required, perform one of the jobs
be given the Alon business. If less Imum of 5 are required
is qualified to If the majority
ARTICLE a - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.1	Should any
controversy arise between th as to the compliance of eitha obligations hereunder, or
misunderstanding or e Company and the Union r party with any of its should there be any
ART. 8
grievance involving the tsmi or this Agreement by an employee, or a group of eiployees, or the Union, the sane shall be handled ir the following manner, provided, however, that n< grievance shall be considered, the alLeged c rcumstances of which originated or occurred nor* than six (6) normal working days prior to its first presentation in accordance with the procedure set out herein, except that this limit shall not ipply where an alleged grievance is of such a nature that the employee or the Union, as the case nay ne, could not have been aware of its alleged occurrence at the actual date of sane, the grievance shalljthen be deemed to have occurred on the first date on which tho employee or the Union could have had sues awareness.
step no. 1
It is the mutual desire of tie Company and the Union that complaints of employeei shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and it is understood that an employee has no grievance uxtil he has first given the salaried employee involved an opportunity of adjusting his complaint. Snould the employee, at his discretion, be accompanied by the committeeperson representing his area, discussion of complaint will be as follov
1. Committeeperson wil complaint form to involved for receipt
2. One copy to be retur ned to committeeperson
3.
4 .
Discussion of compli employee, salaried area commltteepersor
Following the neetif will acknowledge, days, disposition return one copy to to the Committeeper:
Complaints involving discipl ine for absentee related incidents will be presented to the Personnel Manager or his designate.
1 present a 3 part the Salaried person
int to take place with erson involved and the of the employee.
_ the salaried person \ ithin (2) two working of the complaint and Personnel, and one copy on involved.
Step No. 2 An employee's complaint, Whi Salaried person, shall be r grievance form, provided by by the Union, signed committeeperson and submi
ilbh
is not settled by the iduced to writing on the :he Company and approved ay such employee or ed to the Department
tt
&H7.8
Hanager concerned within f Ve (5) working days fron which the Union Caimittee! received the complaint form.
A meeting between the Depajx tmental Manager or his designate, the salaried person involved, the Committee member, and qrla’ or involved will be set up within 2 normal working, days to try to resolve such grievance. Following such meeting the Departmental Manager has tup normal working days tc reply to the Union Comaitteeperson. Grievance answers will be left in iphe provided Union mail basket in Personnel.
Step NO. 3
If the decision of the Departmental Manager or hie designata is not acceptable, the Union plant chairperson or his designate may submit the grievance to the Personnel Manager or his designate within two working days of receipt of the reply ir writing by the Departmental Manager or his designate. A meeting between the President of the Union, the Committee, the I[ersonnel Manager or hie designate and the dapartment j manager involved or his designate, will be set up j/ithin 5 normal working days to try to resolve such .grievance; the grievor, and the National Representative may attend at the Union's discretion. The Plant Manager or hie designate at his option wi$l attend the 3rd Stage grievance meeting.
Following such meeting the written disposition within such meeting.
Company shall give its non a 1 working days of
8.2	It is understcod that the Management
may bring forward in writing any complaints with respect to the conduct of th» Union, its officers ox committee member, or employees of the Bargaining Unit, and that if such com] lalnt fcy Management is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the parties, it may be treatejd as a grievance and
referred to arbitration ir
grievance of any employee.
8.3	It ia understood
differences of opinion on the application of the terras of th any difference of this nature writing at the 3rd stage m ly chairperson or his designate Personnel Manager by the Unijon disagreement.
the same way as the
that there could be interpretation and/or is agreement. Should occur a grievance in be initiated by the and submitted to the within 2 days of the
ART. 6
A meeting between the Presipen Committee, the Personnel Ha and the department manager will be set up within 3 non to resolve such grievp Representative may attend at The Plant Manager or his d will attend the 3rd Stage gr
t or the Union, the lager or his designate or designate involved al working days to try nee; the National the Union's discretion, tsignata at his option evance meeting.
Following such meeting the Company shall give its
written disposition within 5 such meeting.
normal working days of
3.4 After exhausting the grievance procedure herein provided! when either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration they shall mike such request, in writing, within 20 working days after the grievance has been dealt with in step wo. 3, addressed to the other party to this Agreement. The arbitration shall be by a single arbitrator who shall be chosen
by the parties by agreement v after such written request.	_
agree upon the arbitrator vlithin the said period, either party may apply to th< Minister of Labour for Ontario to appoint an arbitri appointed by him shall be ; and have jurisdiction herei arbitrator shall be final Conpany and Union. Under retroactive pay be awarded grievance occurred.
ithin five working days If the parties cannot
tor, and any arbitrator ccepted by the parties . The decision of the and binding upon the no circumstances shall eyond the date when a
8.5 The arbitratorJshall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Ac reement except that the arbitrator may dispose >f any discharge or discipline grievance in any manner which he considers just or equitable {within the law.
8.6	Arbitration
Stratford, Ontario, or at su agreed upon by the parties.
s hall be heard at :h other place as may be
8.7	Each of the pa
the expenses of the arbitral
8.8	Grievances no
written disposition of the C< in any of the steps of tfi within the times and in the shall be considered as havih
"ties hereto shall bear or in equal shares.
appealed Prom the mpany's representatives e grievance procedure manner specified herein g been adjusted on the
9
ART. 9
basis of tha disposition la eligible for further appeal
st made and shall not be
8.9	Time limits as outlined in this article
may	be extended by	mutual agreement at
Unicn/Management level.
ARTICLE 9 - DISCIPLINARY ACTION
9.1
Warning Notice
A copy of all warning notices will be given to the employees and the Union within two (2} working days of the violation becoming known to the Company, such notice shall become a part of the employee's personnel record. A warning notice will not remain in effect for a period of more than twelve Y12) months from the date of suijh warning. Suspensions shall be removed from an employee's record after (18) months." The committe|B person concerned will attgnd.all disciplinary interviews. In any case of discipline where suspension or discharge is involved, the employee wil L be interviewed by the Personnel Manager or his di isignate, in the presence of his committeeperson or such suspension or discharge always that the employee interview. The committee will be advised of the
his designate, prior to taking place, providing is available for prior person or his designate employee involved, the
vialation, and the circumstances surrounding the violation immediately prior
9.2	Discharge and
Any employee employed for calendar days, who has been shall have an interview with his committee member, Plant Chairperson or designate in the Union Office. Any employee employed for	'
calendar days, who has been on the 2nd or 3rd shift shall have an Interview with his alternate in the Union Cffice. On completion of this interview a discharged plant. Under circumstances safety of the employee conedx or be of such a nature that
to this interview.
Suspension more than fifty discharged or suspended
to retain the employee iv the plant then such
employee will be required immediately.
9.3	At the request
will be set up by the Compaq
Manager or his designate
employee will leave the which might endanger the mad or other employees, it would be inadvisable
to leave the premises
of the Union a hearing iy between the Personnel and the Chairperson and
10
ART. 9
plant committee member concerned. Such meeting will be set up within one normal working day of the Union's request. The employee, and the foreman may be present at such hearing Lf deemed necessary by either party. The Company will give a written answer within 24 hours of dale of this meeting.
ifitjd
9.4	Suspension
If the Union is not satisfied with the disposition of the case at such hearing, a grievance may then be filed at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure and such grievance procedure shall therefore apply. All suspensions of more than	~	‘ ‘"	'
consecutive working days.
sne day shall be on
9.5	Discharge
If the Union is not satisfi of the case at such hearing, filed at Step No. 3 of the such grievance procedure sha
dd with the disposition i grievance may then be c rievance procedure and 1 thereafter apply.
9.6 Failing to filt a grievance with the Company under 9.4 and 9.5 above within 5 working days from date of the discipline Issuance, the disciplined employee shall ljjorfeit any right under this section.
9.7	The Company agrees that in the event an
employee is late three ,(3) minutes, the three ,(3) minutes will not be documented on the employee's record card for the first suqt^ occurrence in any one
week.
ARTICLE 10 - NO 8TRXXE8 OR L 1KOUTB
10.1 In view of the orderl by this agreement for the s
the handling of grievances, during the lifetime of this no strikes (asdefinedby th either complete or partial, that there will be no lock Labour Relations Act).
y procedure established i ttling of disputes and the Union agrees that, Agreement there will be i Labour Relations Act) and the Company agrees ofats {as defined by the
10.2	In the event
Union will make every effor from participating.
10.3
a legal
:he above occurs, the to persuade employees
The Company agr ses that in the event of ■ike with the C.A.W., it will not
participate in any way in strike breaking.
li
ART. 11
ARTICLE 11 • SENIORITY
11 >1 Fundamentally the rules herein respecting seniority are designed to give employees an equitable measure of security based on length of continuous service with tbci Company. Seniority, except as hereinafter provided, shall be on a plant wide basis.
11,2
Probationary Inployees
An employee shall be tempjo until he has acquired senicu a probationary employee ahal of the Company and there sh for the re-employment of a is laid off or discharged Ontario Labour Relations Act
rary and on probation ■ity. The retention of 1 be at the discretion ill be no responsibility probationary employee who 'Ond the confines of The
lx j
11.3	Upon the complnl
within any period of twelve from date of hire, an employ to have seniority rights fit hire and his name placed This provision shall not e voluntarily resigns.
11.4	Employees'	nagLc
seniority lists in order oi1 of hiring and alphabetic |i appearing on the same datt notify the Union in writing seniority status, such notic: week. Once seniority is section it will not be chanb<
11.5
:ion ofJULcalendar days (12) consecutive months 'ee shall be considered :om his original date of in the seniority lists. ?ply to an employee who
Loss of Senior
s shall appear on the their respective dates [Silly for those names ci. The Company shall as any employee attains ci to be given within one established under this 9d.
tj
Seniority rights shall eea following reasons:
(a) If the employe i quits.
(b) If the employe^ discharge be grievance proce
(c) if the employee; days without giving satisfab
s.e for any one of the
is discharged and such reversed through the •lure.
rot
is absent for 3 working advising the Company torv reasons.
12
ART. 12
(d)
If the employee falis to return to work within $ dark In*} days after notification tq his last known address the Company unless he furnishes oa t Uljactoty reasons for such failure.
(e)
The employee is Workmen's Cob disability leav<
(5) years or seniority, as
continuous absence, whichever is the greater.
absent due to lay-off, jensation claim or for a period of five period equal to his Of the date of his
Any such employee having b under Article 11.5a will
consideration for re-hire.
11,4
seniority List
Seniority lists, master and maintained by the Company a three (3) months with nine C committee.
ARTICLE 12 - JOB POSTING
W , 1
Permanent V -4 c -i n sy
hausted his seniority se given preferential
departmental, shall be rd shall be posted each ipies to the bargaining
A permanent vacancy shall defined as an open
3 1
position created by:	a net?
force, the termination and/o
to increase the work ■ permanent transfer of
an employee from an existinj position. vacancies
will not be posted during Ju
12 . 2
Non-Eligibility
emi 1
Non-eligibility ■ An classification is not eligib the same classification witf except should a vacancy ccc employees on a multi-shift wi to post for a job and vi cia^siTir^tiion within the sa
12,3
General Vaoaaol is
In the event the Company ;eq tires t>® fili. <&• wcsne#'
in any department (otherthar day shift in the Sewing Oepi
.such vacancies in the follow .ng manner in each Case for a period of forty-eight |(48) hours, excluding
y and August.
oyes already in a i to post for a job in 1 n the same department on a day shift, then 1 have the opportunity :e versa in the sane 3 department,
t r i 1
v
sewer vacancies on the rtment) they will poj
13
Saturdays, Sundays and ho seniority employees in the 1: allowed to apply. Selection based on seniority providing necessary'	quaTf lications
satisfactorily perform the w
lidays.	All eligible
argaining unit will be Jc for the vacancy will be *7 ‘ the applicant has the and	ability to
ork available.
12.4	The Company sh<
the Job Posting Board and employees will be allowed to made according to Article department and should nt employees applying for the v, be accepted, selection shall
12.3	All resultant V*
in accordance with the Job p<)
12.6 (a)
1 post the vacancy on ill eligible seniority apply. Selection to be 12.3 from within the eligible seniority ancy in the department be plant wide.
ac
cancles will be posted sting Procedure.
Should the resultant vacancy as set out
(b)
<c)
Should the resiltant vacancy as set out above, be filled by an employee on the Day Shift under this agreement, the resultant vacancy will then be posted ‘	‘	with 12.4 and follow
posting procedure.
in accordance through the job
This completes the cycle of transfer under the job posting procedure for vacancies (othei than sewer vacancies on the Day Shift in the Sewing Department) , and the Company will take such steps as m^y be required to fill
In the event the Company re vacancy in the Sewing Oepar they will post such vacan< manner in each case for a perji hours, excluding Saturdays, Day shift vacancies (limited posted and any further vacanc posted each month thereafte
lulres to fill a sewer ument on the day shift cjiies in the following od of forty-eight (48) Sundays and holidays, to a per month) will be ies will continue to be until all day shift
ART. 12
vacancies have been posted. ■ the vacancy Plant Wide on the blue paper and all eligible s<si be allowed to apply.
The resultant vacancies will with 12.4 of the job posting
Selection for the vacancy will providing the applicant qualifications and ability to the work available.
A total of eight (8) employees within one month of the job p
This completes the cycle of posting procedure forvacanci< the Sewing Department, and tfr such steps as may be required vacancy, if any.
‘he Company shall post Job Posting Board, on ■iorlty employees will
bp posted in accordance rocedure,
be based on Seniority has the necessary iat is factor 11 y perform
per month to be moved < sting.
;ansf«r under the job s on the Day Shift in e Company will take to fill the remaining
U.$
Disqualification! Postings)	I
(Except Day Shift
Where an employee bids for vacancy, he shall be instruction. If, however, he his ability to perform the w ten (10) working days, or disqualified within (10) work posting following his accept* shall be returned to his which he was transferred in tl
c r
n:
fc rm
1.
2 .
3.
The employee w i i section, in the shift from whenc vacancy exist at
Failing the abov fill a vacancy the cLassificati
id is accepted for a en appropriate job fails to demonstrate k efficiently within he requests to be ng days from the job :e of the position, he er department from « following manner:
fill a vacancy in the Lassifloatlon, on the e he came., should a the time.
s,
j n c n,
the employee will the department, in should one exist.
Failing the above, displace the junior employee in the classification,
Failing the above, the employee will displace the junior employee in the plant.	•
15
ART. 12
12.8 (b)
Disqualification Postings)
Where an employee bids for vacancy, he shall be instruction. I fhowever., his ability to perform the ten (10) working days, disqualified within ten (10 job posting following h position, he shall be r department from which he following manner;
and is accepted for a divan appropriate job le falU to demonstrate work a(fIcLentLy within qr he requests to be working days from the s acceptance of the dturned to his former was transferred in the
1.
2 .
3.
4.
5.
The employee v section, in whence he came at the time.
ill fill a vacancy in the tpe classification from should a vacancy exist
Failing the at fill a vacancy department in tfr one exist.
Failing the abo employee in th|a day shift.
Failing the abir employee in thf
Plant.
Failing the aty displace the plant.
12.9
An employee re will be ineligible to po postings for a period of n from date of acceptance.
12.10	The Company wi
of seniority, all eligible disqualification for the perm to determine if anotl
qualifications to satisfac who will be subject to the e This shall also apply when
been extended.
12.11	A vacancy
filled, pending the permanent
(Day Shift
ove, the employee will on the day snift in the a classification should
>ve, displace the junior classification on the
ive, displace the junior classification, in the
ove, the employee will Junior employee in the
qjesting disqualification ut -on any further job jnety (90) calendar days
1 then review, in order bidders from date of lanent/temporary vacancy er bidder has the
borily perform the work ame ten (10) day period, the training period has
may be temporarily filling of the vacancy
16
ART.1*
through the job posting proce 1 sickness or accident, Worker) 1 of Absence, Pregnancy Leave (f leave.
ure or as a result of 1 compensation, Leave Absence or vacation
a temporary position, n of the assignment,
Should a new hire be placed oi the employee, upon corapleti*r will apply his seniority to displace a junior employee in the plant, providing the employee has the ability to perform the function.
A temporary position will be basis should an employee be on leave as of twelve complete m|p
posted on a permanent long term disability nths of absence.
Seniority providing, an empl<yee returning to work after a disability absence of twelve months or greater, will return to their classification in the department or be declared surplus under the surplus language.
An employee who has bid successfully on a temporary job posting cannot accept Another temporary job posting for a period of three (3) months from the date of acceptance unless th< work to which he was transferred as a result of t subsequently discontinued, tl *
be free to bid on another tea sorary job posting.
Upon completion of a six temporary job posting an e opportunity to return to thei] providing such request is submitted to the Personnel D requesting off a temporary j on the function pending the f vacancy.
An employee who has bid successfully on a permanent job posting cannot accept another job posting for a period of six (6) months from date of acceptance unless the work to which he result of such successful discontinued, then the employ on another job pasting.
uch successful bid is en the employee would
>) month period on a ifployee will have the former classification made in writing and ejbartnent. An employee >b posting will remain lling of the temporary
An employee will be con; successfully on a Job posting 10 full working days follovin\ position. Training period mar agreement between Company
was transferred as a bid is subsequently ie would be free to bid
idered to have bid upon the completion of his assignment to the be extended by mutual '’ommittee.
17
ART.12
12.12	The Company wil
of all job postings placed on A copy of the applicants applicants will also be forw. shall be paid the regular rat and have his name posted on within five (5) working acceptance. An employee me accepted on a permanent/tf: within five working days of to be removed from the board rate of the classification of the Payroll Week followirjg is removed from the board, the Plant Committee, names replaced on a temporary job applicant(s) will be moved v days following acceptance of
give the Union a copy the Job Posting Board, along with successful . rded to the Union. He of the classification the Job Posting Board days from date of st be available to be mporary job posting, die date the posting is and shall receive the later than the start the date the posting Company to identify to of employees being posting. Successful ithin five (5) working the position.
ro
12,13	Each posting n
classification reguiremeri' department, the shift, the va or multi shift) rate of pay performed. The acceptance shall include date and time refused. The Company will for information purposes on . signing acceptance form, indicate the probable section information purposes only, altered prior to filling the
12.14
Temporary Job Posting
Temporary Job Postings will . Department/Plant vide and procedure outlined under Art
Dtice will define the ts including the cancy is on (day shift and the work normally form for job postings posting is accepted or j Indicate probable shift y, prior to applicant the notice shall also af the department for as the vacancy may be
vacancy*
Me clearly identified as posted as per the cle 12 Job Posting.
12.15(a)	Temporary Transfers
ed to ten (10) working
A temporary transfer is limip days, or duration of an employee's va the position must be posted
permanent unless the ten extended by mutual consent k the Union. However, where tr
by an employee that he will more than ten (10) working
post the position if necessa under Article 12.14.
(1C)
he
cation and beyond that as either temporary or working day limit is etween the Company and Company is made aware Ije absent from work for days the Company will on a temporary basis
When it becomes necessary to	employees from one
IB
ART. 12
department or classification employees shall be paid classification or the rate they are transferred to, whi the balance of their shift
to another, the the rate of their >f the classification chever is greater, for
12.15(b)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Transfer Prooedur Department/To An
Effective the year the Com
e within itber Department
cond Monday of each ny will post all classifications (except skilled Trades) on the Job Porting Board for five working days.
Employees wishing consideration to transfer to a t<mporary position will place their names on the pasting for selection within department/to another
department.
Selection will be made by sflnloeity-
first fromwlthii
department or section
by shift, sec and from another deparUnent by thift providing there will be a miiimal disruption of production and the applicant has the .cations and ability to perform the work ar, in the event the ty employee(s) , if : transferred, payment the employee(3) .
necessary qualif satisfactorily available. Howev highest senior qualified, is no will be made to
Employees which to disability, off, or vacatiofr will have S wo date of return form provided consideration to
tfere not available due leave of absence, lay**
at time of posting ] king days from their J make application on by Personnel for temporary transfer.
Employees re** department will from their date
application consideration to
1ocated to another have 5 working days of transfer to make n Personnel for temporary transfer.
The Company will transfer change: days of applicati to the Union Conga
select and adjust any within five working ion and provide a copy ittee.
19
ART. 12
12.16	Once the sale*
completed refusal to transfe|r ineligible to transfer refusal was due t o medical had requested and signed off form in Personnel. Any an; for a three month period m form provided by Personnel to the terms of Article 12.
otlon process has been will make the employee three months unless Reasons and the employee the ineligible transfer riloyee deemed ineligible pat make application on r consideration subject (b) 6.
for
f j
Medical clearance and eligibility list will be Personnel Department.
12.17	Once an eraployjs
temporary transfer, the before the employee is temporary transfer. An seniority upon completion will not bump a lower seni second transfer has commenc
e has been placed on a cle must be complete eligible for another employee with higher a temporary transfer <>rlty employee once the

of
• id.
12.18	Should a cl
applicants, on the temporary classification will be ' qualified seniority employe^ section by shift (if such within the department by within the plant by shift, a minimal disruption of procjl has the necessary qualifi satisfactorily perform the
12.19
Departments
The plant shall be divided into the following departments:
1.	Cutting Departrjic
2.	Door Assembly
3.	Fales Department
4.	Dielectric Depi
5.	Sewing Departm<
6.	Quality Control
7.	Material Kandli
8.	Maintenance Dei
9.	Central Stores
10.	Skilled Trades
should a new department ar this agreement the Company anp post all vacancies on accordance with the job pos
iquest to return to ids by employee at the
assification have no transfer posting, the filled by the lowest first from within the applies}, second from shift, and third from providing there will be uction and the employee nations and ability to work available.
ent
department
t
4rtment
ent
Department ng Department dartment
Lse during the life of shall notify the Union Plant Wide Posting in bing procedure. In the
20
ART.13
event there is a new blaesif ication or a
reclassification to be j instituted, such classification and rate of pai will be negotiated by the Company and the Union. Ay new classifications during this agreement will befl posted Plant Wide.
ARTICLE 13 - LAYOTIS
Layoffs of not consecutive
13.1	_
five (5) consecutive wor>ing Saturdays and Sundays, shall
adjustment of the work forceJby seniority. It is understood that the Employee I required will be from the pertinent shift required Jto work.
longer duration than days,	excluding
not require an
13.2	An employee najk exercise his plant
seniority rights after an ac emulative layoff of 4 non-consecutivedays in any calendar month.
13.3	Where it is knc*n that a layoff will exceed 5 working days,,' excluding Saturdays and Sundays, the manpower will qe adjusted on a plant wide seniority basis.
13.4
General Provieicn Layoff
In the case of any reduction of the working force, an employee will be entitled to transfer in line
with his seniority, to ano :her job which he is physically "dapable of parfoiraing efficiently in a
reasonable period of time, except as outlined below.
13.5 A seniority emp seniority rights in tha clas time of a layoff of ten (10 providing he has previously p in the classification and ha capability to perform the wo:
oyee may exercise his {jification below at the working days or less ■ rformed satisfactorily the present physical
Gerber operator Shipping Receiving Leader - Roll Gc ods Dielectric - Sat up/Leader Leader - Door Line Quality Control Inspector Transport Drive:
Receiving lnspe( tor
13.6	A seniority emp.
seniority rights in the clast time of a layoff of ten (10 providing he would have the
qualifications to meet the
oyee may exercise his ification below at the working days or more ability and necessary requirements of the
21
ART.13
classification within ten date the employee exercised
(|10) working days from the his seniority:
Gerber Operatf Shipping Rece Leader - Roll Dielectric -Leader - Door Quality Contro Transport Driv Receiving Ins
r
ving
Goods
$et up/Leader Lina
1 Inspector er
Sector
emp
13.7	A seniority
seniority rights in the cla^ the time of a layoff, pr satisfactorily in the satisfactorily completed as outlined in Article physical capability to per
loyee shall exercise his sification of a sewer at efviding he has performed classification or has Sewing Training Program 0 and has the present torn the work.
the
13.8
first
Probationary laid off in any
to be
^ requiring training addition to a senior employee until the job is of production will occur.
day, except in the case whep job requiring '	'	'
ths
empl
of
13.9	In the event
force greater than fourteen listed officers are to be the work force fall below reduce in the following or<)er.
Guide
In no event can an emplo; utilize this clause to aff
13,10
Surplus - Laycff
The following procedure Shall apply in the event of a layoff, surplus or recall!.
employees will be the layoff of more than one an employee is on a key Company may retain, in oyee, the probationary Secured and no disruption
a reduction in the work (14) calendar days, the Retained at work. Should e number listed, it will
11
Sgt-at-Arms Trustees (by 2nd Vice-Pras;
Vice-President Recording Sec:
Financial Saci President
Bargaining Committee (by natural seniority)
Plant Chairperson
tjatural seniority) dent
retary
rotary
on indefinite layoff 4ct a recall.
yee
22
ART. 13
Employees declared surplus will first exercise tneir seniority In the class 1 floati|on they are employed.
Employees with insufficient seniority will displace a junior employee in their department. ShouIcPtlier'd not be a junior employee in tne department then they will apply their seniority Jto displace a junior employee in the plant, subject to the provisions of Article 13, Sections 13.4, I3|s, 13.6, 13.7, in both the department and the plan The result of the layoff and surplus procedure junior employees in the pli r starting with the probationar the provisions of Article 13 13.6, 13.7 in both the depart
may be that the most nt will be on layoff r employees, subject to Sections 13.4, 13.5, ment and the plant.
13.11 Employees declaied surplus on a steady day shift will first exercise their seniority in the classification on the steady day shift, secondly they will exercise their seniority in the classification they are employed.
Employees with insufficient Seniority will displace a junior employee in their department. Should there not be a junior employee in the department then they will apply their seniority I to displace a junior employee In the plant, subject to the provisions of
Article 13, Sections 13.4, 13
the department and the plan:. The result of the layoff and surplus procedure will be that the most junior employees in the pint will be on layoff
starting with the probationary employees, subject to the provisions o f Article 12,	'
13.6, 13.7 in both the depar
Sections 13.4, 13.5, :ment and the plant.
.5, 13.6, 13.7, In both
give at least twenty-lyoff to the committee ected by model change l model change, unless
13.12	The Supervisor must four (24) hours notice of 1 member and the employee af i c layoff, or layoff otner tha such layoffs affect individuels under the Employment Standards Act in which cas i the layoffs will be within the confines of the v(«24,) hour notice .shall be givjlen on the previous work day on which the employee Marked, However, it is understood that this provision does not apply with respect to circumstances beyfond the control of the Company.
13.13	Due to schedule changes absenteeism or
leave of absence^, it is recognized that during short periods of time of notj greater than two weeks per occasion, employees	rcising plant
seniority to
23
ART. 13
the sewer classification wiill be assigned to other classifications.
ARTICLE 14 - RECALL
1.4	, 1.	On Recall from
1.3, Section L3.1.,	13.2, l:
employees will return to t shall be declared surplus an to their jobs as provided b«i
a layoff under Article .3 and Article IE all heir previous jobs, or 1 maintain recall rights low.
H , 2
Should the PI
force following a layoff, uider Article 13, Section 13.3, surplus employees in the Plant from the Day Shift will return to their former classification on the Day Shift in their depaitment, unless they have successfully posted in the leantime.
ant increase its work
7 I
v. •
Surplus employees in the Pli will return to their former department, unless they have the meantime.
M..
14.3	Further vacanc
accordance with the job employees placed on layoff of seniority, will fill t providing' such employees qualifications to satlsfac available, subject to the p section 13.4,	13,5,	13.6,
become the employees job cl
14 .4
return to their previous cl
nt from the Multi-shift classification in their successfully posted in
Les will be posted in posting procedure and from the Plant, in order le resultant vacancies have the necessary rily perform the work revision of Article 13, 13.7, this then will Ossification.
it O'
Surplus employees on the shift will
issification before any
temporary transfers or tenporary posting occur, providing there will be a minimal disruption of production. In the event the surplus employee is not returned, payment will j>e made to the employee from date of complaint.
ARTICLE 15 - MODEL CHANGE LAYOFF AND RECALL
15.1	Layoff by depart
used, subject to the provl Section 13.9, for a perin calendar days from the time layoffs occur:	this peri
inventory period and vaca employees depending upon p: Where layoffs under this
ment seniority will be sions of Article 13, d of forty-five (45) when the model change includes the annual tion periods for some induction requirements, system create problems of
<d
24
ART. 18
vacation scheduling, alternati arrangements may be made by mutual agreement. Tha timing of the model change, if to be used, will be posted on the bulletin boards on or befor« May 1st each year. Recall to work during this foity-five (45) calendar day period shall be by de >artmental seniority, subject to the provisions of Article 13, Section 13.9. If all except probationary employees are still required in that depar employees shall be recalled in plant wide seniority provided to satisfactorily perform the done,
ARTICLES 18-17 INVENTORY
:mant, the additional accordance with their they have the ability available work to be
- ANNUAL IN FENTORY - CYCLE CHECK
16.1 • 17.1 In the event ok annual/short cycle check inventory (inventoryJfor record purposes) employees shall be requsstfed, by departmental
seniority providing he
necessary
qualifications and is iAmadlataly able to satisfactorily perform the work required. Should the Company be unable to acquire sufficient employees, the junior employees in the department will be required to work tl e annual-cycle check inventory. Additional manpowt r will be requested by plant wide seniority, providing employees have the ability to perform the function.
The annual inventory period Company bulletin boards two ( actual inventory and when tht completed, names will be post
ARTICLE 18 - GENERAL
qtiall be posted on the 2) weeks prior to the selection process is id.
18. 1
In the event of
a major disability, or disability due to advancing age, exception may be rose e to the seniority provisions of this agreeman:	in favour of such
employee but, in the event <
after a layoff, he shall be sibject to the seniority provisions of this agreemeit which would have applied, had he not been disabled. Following recall
again be made to the igreement in favour of .ion to be made when ompany and the Plant
after a layoff, exception rna} seniority provisions of this such employee. Such sxcepl agreed to mutually by the Union Committee.
the
an employee suffering
f a layoff or recall
25
ART. 19
ARTICLE 19 • F0RXATI0N/DI3 SHIFT WITHIN THE SEWING CIA
DEPARTMENT
lONTXNUANCS OF A MULTI-I8XFICATI0N IN THE SEWING
19*1	General Provis
The parties agree that thlci apply only to Sewers dur section of the Sewing Oepar' shift operation and its seniority employees who Multi-Shift of the Sewing opportunity to return to A the Sewing Department.
Vacancies or the re-locatioi as specifically outlined in in accordance with the Job
Lon
General Provision will ng the formation of a 1 ment going onto a Multi** opjoct is to give those ve been moved onto a Department to have the day shift operation in
ha
of employees other than this procedure, will be Posting Procedure.
19.2	Article
The number of seniority Employees in the Sewer classification of the Sewing Department assigned to the	Multi-Shift	section»(s> will have the
opportunity to return to a J«y shift section of the department in the same jclassiffcation, in the following manner:
19*3	Upon the formal
section(s), those seniority location to a Day Shift Department, will be reques on a notice which will appje Notice Board. The notice consecutive working days.
,tion of the Multi-Shift (employees requesting resection, of the Sewing t)ed to place their names
ar on the Derprarrtrnrrrttal will run for five (5)
19,4	Upon complatidi
notice, the names will bt seniority.
19.5	Seniority empl>
a Multi-Shift in accordap
schedule.
19.6	Once the senio
on a Multi-Shift, they shal Shift jobs in the Sewing Sewing Department at a rate employees from each shif attached schedule.
19.7	Those re-laca
section will displace the classification.
'R of the five (5) day arranged in order of
yees shall be placed on >ce with the attached
rity employees are placed be returned to the Day classification in the Of no less than four (4) as outlined in the
ting to a Day Shift unior employee in their
26
ART.19
19.3	This process v
seniority of an employee location to the Day 3hLf displace an employee who is
Li continue until the to has requested ci -is insufficient to n a Day Shift section.
191 1 Those employees by the more senior employee: the Multi-Shift aaot Ion (a) o the completion of the p roc os need to increase the work f vacancies will be filled in Posting Procedure.
yho are being displaced will be re-located to the department. After , if there should be a in the department, ccomlance with the Job
19.10 In the event discontinued, the same pro discontinuanceas for formal
the
idure
on.
Multi-Shift is shall apply for
27
I
Kax. NO.	h
of 10ca.	*
	Weeks	Weeks	Weeks	Weeks	Weeks	Weeks	Weeks Weeks		on Nights
2 3	NIGHT SHIFT	DAY SHIFT	"OUT"						2
6 7	DAY SHIFT	NIGHT SHIFT	DAY SHIFT	"OUT'					2
9 10 li	NIGHT CHTPT	DAY eutw.	NIGHT cutw	DAY CttTt®		"OUT"				4
									
13 14 15	DAY SHIFT	NIGHT SHIFT	DAY SHIFT	NIGHT SHIFT	DAY SHIFT	"OUT"			4
18 19	NIGHT SHIFT	DAY SHIFT	NIGHT SHIFT	DAY SHIFT	NIGHT SHIFT	DAY SHIFT	"OUT"		&
21 22 23	DAY SHIFT	NIGHT SHIFT	DAY SHIFT	NIGHT SHIFT	DAY SHIFT	NIGHT SHIFT	DAY "OUT1 SHIFT	•	6
MT.2Q
ARTICLE 30 - SEWER TRAINING PftOGKAMKZ
. V?
20.1	The Company will provide a training
programme (during periods of full employment or during periods when the plant has employees on indefinite layoff) to enable Seniority employees in classifications other than sewing, an opportunity to become qualified sewers in order to reduce the
inability to meet job will apply to those
possibility of layoff due to requirements. This article employees actively at work at time of'entry into the sewer training and with greate ? plant seniority than
sewers already in the plant
1 o
20.2	The minimum train l
calendar days, but an employe* should the employee fail qualifications or performance 30 day calendar period. Deter i completion of the Sewing Pr m within SO calendar days.
ng period will be 30 may be disqualified,
show satisfactory it any time during the ination of successful gramme will be made
20.3	An employee's
retained in his own depart}) seniority will be accrued dur sewing. From date of success
sewing programme an employee will then complete a further as a sewer. Upon completion employee will return to his transfer to a sewing vacancy ti procedure.
20.4	A	posting will b
Posting Board for one week dur January each year. The Comi maximum of two (2) postings initial posting be exhausted, and qualify under the terms
ieniority shall be lent and plant wide .ng the time spent in Ml completion of the (seniority providing) line (9) month period of this period, the m department or may rough the job posting
< wn
i placed on the Job ng the second week of any will post, to a per year, should the Candidates that apply if this article must
accept the posting or the employee will be ineligible for consideration if the posting. The candidates selected will enter training at a rate not to exceed two per month in order of plant wide seniority.
Should an employee not exer :ise his plant wide seniority to enter the sewing classification, during any twenty-four (24) month pe'led after completion of the training, he may have jo requalify prior to exercising his plant wide seniority into the sewing classification, for layoff purposes only.
AftT.22
Any employee declared surpli completion of the Sewing 20.2, who returns to the p four (24) months of surplus balance of the training per]L to the Sewing Programme months from being declared employee to re-post.
s, following successful Programme under Article ogramme within twenty-date will complete the od. Failure to return ithin twenty-four (24) turplua will require the
ARTICLE 21
UNIT
21.1	Should a salar
to the bargaining unit he seniority that he previously will bump the lowest sen former department and he wi on the job posting procedujr months.
SALARIED R1TORN TO THE BARGAINING
ed employee be returned ^rill be entitled to the acquired in the unit, iority employee in his 1 be ineligible to post e for a period of six
ARTICLE 22
PRODUCTION STANDARDS
22,1	It shall be the
to establish production sta
a)	are fair and
b)	are based on normal worker;
c)	give due cons workmanship reqti
d)	give due considja delays.
egl
id
Company's responsibility •idards that:
1table to workers; and forking capacities of a ind
eration to quality of ired; and
ration to personal time
22.2	Before the Company studies any job and
makes a record of such a j<|b, the worker who works on the job and his committee member shall be notified in advance and sha! of the study.
ed
22.3	Any establish
whether it be a new one or
may be grieved on the gr conform to the provisions accordance with the Grievan
not resolved will be refe submitted to the Manager of
22.4	During such
Union may at Step No. 3 of if they so desire, ha'' Representative Time Study examine all the data which
1 be told of the purpose
production standard, the result of a change, ’bunds that It does not of the Article. In ce Procedure, complaints rred to Step No. 2 and Industrial Engineering.
c rie
vance procedure the
the grievance procedure, their International Engineer present to the Company has
ART.22
pertaining -to the dispute, and
study the job. Standards info also be made available to the request.
may also exaaine and -nation and data will inion in writing upon
22.5	An established pro
no grievance has been filed except for the following exten
(a)
(b)
c ucticn standard where ;hall not be changed
To correct an arithmetic error. In which case only jthe arithmetic error shall be corrects I.
(b
When the Company jab which makes worker to do the j which case, the ch< standard shall ref. change in the job.
(c)
slakes a change in the .t possible for the in less effort. In nge in the production ect no more than the
When the Company makes a change in the job which requires the worker to use more time and/or effort. In which case the change in the production standard shall reflect the :hange in the job.
22.6	Should a production standard be disputed
by the Union, it is agreed that after normal investigative procedures have! been followed, the finn’l resolutron will be by thp stop watch method.
Prior to any job bJing studied the union
22.7
committee member of the area to be taken will be notif industrial engineer in th supervisor.
n which the study is ed verbally by the i presence of the
22.8	If for any reason
or deferred the union commit notified of the oanoellation
industrial engineer in tho supervisor. The reasons deferment shall also be given.
22.9	Priortoa deferred
a later date the committee involved shall be renotifie l engineer in the presence of tne
he study is cancelled tee member shall be
or deferment by the presence of the lor cancellation or
study being taken at member of the area by the industrial supervisor.
22.20	a record log of the notifications for
each study, shall be keptl In the industrial
engineering department.
ART*23
ARTICLE 23	- HOURS OF WORK AMD OVERTIME
kwi
ws
tin
23.1	The normal wor:
days per week, Monday to hours per day. Any time week shall be considered o‘ time and a half. Any time day shall be considered O' time and a half. (Employe!j during the hours between regular quitting time of thi who return to work during shall be credited as haviri< consecutive hours for th«i overtime payment herein.) construed as entitling tl overtime pay twice in resp work. Time and a half aha performed on a Saturday. 0 for all work performed on S
«;ir
eek shall consist of 5 Friday, inclusive of 8 orked over 4Odours per ijirertime andfpaid for at worked over 8 hours per i^ertime and paid for at a absent for any reason e regular startfng and respective shifts and the hours of such shift ig worked the eight (8) purpose of computing Nothing herein shall be e employee to receive of the same overtime 11 be paid for all work >Uble time shall be paid mday.
23.2(a) Normal 8 hour shifty will start between the ■ following hours:
1st Shift - Startirk 6:00 A.
:g times will be between (. and 8:00 A.M.
2nd Shift • Startiqi 2:30 P.
3rd Shift - Start!
il:oo PI
i|ee
(b) Butted Shift OperatL are required on th: normal hours of wo
Days
Afternoon Midnight
Employees working such ope minute paid lunch. The s third butted shift operatic^ night.
23.3	Shift hours
bulletin boards designating times: rest periods and lu
g times will be between and 4:30 P.M.
rig times will be between .M. and 1:30 A.M.
ons ** when operations equal shifts, the will be:
-	3	P.M.
-	11	P.M.
-	7	A.M.
ions will receive a 20 t|&rt of the week for the swill be 11 P.M* Sunday
ill be posted on the starting time: quitting nlch periods.
23.4	The Company will notify the Union of
changes in such posted information in advance of implementation and inform jbhem of the reasons for
the change.
ART.23
23.5 The Company wilt not change the employee's starting tine whei established on the first standard work day of tie regular scheduled workweek. If, however, it beccmes necessary for the
Company to change the ampleyee's starting time during such week, then all work] performed before the regular starting time and aftaa the regular quitting time shall be considered as overtime and take the overtime rate of pay for the first day only with the exception of the following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
when an employee When an employee back to work.
When an employee accepted a job exercised during When an employee department during
ejkercises seniority, is laid off and called
1 as been selected and posting which is the week.
is recalled to his home the week.
When overtime is recessary, the Company
nty-four (24) hours from doing so because trol of the Company.
23,$
will give the employees tw^r notice except where prevented ' of circumstances beyond the ce in sjinala cases the Company will! make evsry effort to notify employees prior to noonlof the day concerned. In any event the company willl advise the committee chairperson and committee person concerned before the employees are notified. I
23.7	It is recognized] that the Company's
operations are of such a nature which at times require overtime work. Overtime will be obligatory up to 8 hours a week. Any overtime over eight hours per week will be voluntary unless, mutually agreed upon between the Union and the Company. further, any overtime on a weekend im mediately following a Friday holiday or a weekend ii mediately preceding a Monday holiday will be volunts ry.
23.6	As far as reasonably possible, overtime
.will be equitably distributed among those employees who normally perform such work in the classification on a departmental basis by shift, except Sew Department and Material Hand.ing Department which will be on a section basi3 by shift. After exhausting the section overtivs during the week, the Company will then canvass the other day shift
sections. Overtime records w by the company and posted department on a weekly basis.



11 be kept up to date in the area and/or A copy of the Master
Overtime Record will be issued to the union.
33
ART.as
23.9	Overtime on a weexena will be equitably distributed among those I employees who normally perform such work in the classification on a departmental basis, except Sew Department and Material Handling Department which will be on a section basis by shift, diving preference to day shift employees first.
23.10	Equalization o: ’ on January let of each ye senior employees, using tip and recording all overtime in the following situation!!
(a)
<b)
Overtime offer department ott
refused.
4d to a classification and er than their own and
Overtime offer than one hour shift.
23.11
<lt
In the event equitably distributed as s 23.9 and a complaint has within six (6) normal worki violation the employee wil to work further partial o' weekend within the 30 ddi; initial complaint provic| legitimate, there is ove employee can satisfactori function.
If a legitimate complaint has been filed by an employee who was by-passed for overtime and not offered additional overtime in accordance with
overtime shall commence ar commencing with the e procedure of charging worked or offered except
t
td and refused with less ramainlng In their regular
overtime has not been out in Article 23.8 or tyeen made by an employee ng days from the alleged be given an opportunity Wartime or overtime on a iy period following the ing the complaint is i|time available, and the y perform the required
Article 23.11, payment appropriate rate.
will be made at the
23.12	Probationary
transferred to other class! shift for any reason sha] average hours of the depar or an applicable multi-shill'
sind
23.13	Excluding vacatji
(from their classification leave, compensation, shall as it occur in the classifi as if they were employees
Seniority Employees ications, departments or 1 be credited with the
timent in a day shift area t area.
on, employees on lay-off leave of absence, sick be charged for overtime Cation on the same basis the classification.
in
34
ART.24
i i
I
23.14	Reporting 7.,
An employee called or permitted the Company for whom no work ' paid four (4|,.l»oura time at the have received if he had actv provision shall not apply when _ due to a fire, flood or uther ‘
to come to work for available shall be hourly-rate he would ally worked. This such lack of work is j list cause.
.	23.15	Stand-By Allovanoe
Should an employee agree tc . .notification to be called into > /4 hours straight time will be ’ is not called in.
stand-by awaiting rork, compensation of 3aid if the employee
23.16	Call- Back Allowance
When an employee has left (the premises after completion of his normal shift or after having discharged the special duties v lich he has agreed tc perform for the Company and is sailed upon to return to the plant for emergency dutiss, prior to the time regularly scheduled for him to resume his duties, he shall receive pay for a minimum of 4 hours at the appropriate rate as provided^ under Article 23, Section 2 3,1.
23.17
will not be paid should an emp call-back allowance.
It is understood that stand-by allowance
oyee receive pay for
23.18	The Company agrees!that in the event an
employee is late three (3) minutes, no deduction of
pay will be made on the first b
one week
23.19	It is agreed that
this Agreement or by mutual Union and the Company, Shi applicable to all employi
departments.
tch occurrence in any
: t
unless specified in consent between the Rotation will be in Multi-Shift
es
Shift rotation will not be re rui red should a third shift be for a "defined perloy". The Company will consider volunteers by department/section seniority, providing the employees have tpe ability to perfora the function.
ARTICLE 2 4	- PAID HOLIDAYS
24.1	Eligible seniority employees will be paid eight (8) hours per dayf plus cost of living allowance provided he meets Jail of the following eligibility rules unless otherwise provided herein:
35
ART.24
fa)
<b)
<°>
(«)
24.2
the employee date of the hi
has seniority as of the Aliday,
the employee tould otherwise have been scheduled to work on such day if it had not been obaeived as a holiday, and
the employee scheduled wor next scheduled holiday within An employee e work on the prior to or working day the scheduled shall be d< requirements
just have worked the last fing day prior to and the working day after such the scheduled workweek, ccused by management from st scheduled working day on the naxt scheduled ajfter such holiday within workweek, but not both, efemed to have met the this Paragraph (c).
It
cf
in the case bf a series of holidays falling on coijsecutive work days (i.e. Christmas fill), the employee must have worked the lapt scheduled working day prior to the Holiday period in order to qualify for the 1st half of the Holiday period. An employee must have worked the-lst scheduled working day following the Holiday period in order to qualify four the balanc t of the Christmas Holiday
ing on December 32
An otherwise retires on Dec last scheduled Christmas Holi& Holiday pay to
work on the day prior to cr the day succeeding the holiday he must have worked the scheduled shift on each day. The employee v|il 1 not be eligible for payment should he be late, without reasonablecause,
eligible employee who 6mber 31 and who works the working day prior to the ay Period is eligible for the end of the year.
If the employee had been scheduled tc
more than 2 hours on qualifying shifts.
ilther or both of the
24.3	it	is further
no duplication of payment arising out of the terms a
agreed that there shall be for the same day or days
this article.
361
ART.24
2 4.4 An employee who agt'ses -to work on the day of observance of a holidiy and who, without reasonable cause, fails to redbrt for and perform such work, shall be ineligible Cor holiday pay.
(led that, should an for one or more of ives Accident and
24.5	It is further prov employee qualify for holiday p the above holidays and rec Sickness or Workers' Compensatilbn benefits for that hollday(s), his holiday pay 3ha|ll be reduced by the amount of Accident and si< Kness or Workers Compensation benefits paid for that day(s).
24.6	Any employee who wo -ks on a paid holiday shall be paid at the rate af double his regular straight time hourly rate for e Jcfi work', this Ts 'to be in addition to the normal days pay for those employees with seniority.
24.7
Employees Laid Offl Going on sick and Pregnancy Leave, Personal Leave or on Wor^tcs' Coopensatipn
An eligible employee who has {been laid off in a reduction of force or who hap gone on sick and pregnancy leave, granted parscmal leave, or on Workers' Compensation will be eligible for holiday pay provided he worked his lastlscheduled work shift in the fourteen (14) calendar Iday period before a holiday, except that as it relefltis to the Christmas
fill period holiday pay shall
first half of the holiday perici.
24.8
Employees Returning and Pregnancy lean • on	Cbrrpelissa
An eligible employee on la pregnancy leave, granted pe Workers' Compensation who retu the holiday will be eligib provided he worked his first sc the fourteen (14) calendar holiday, except that as it rel fill period holiday pay shall b half of the holiday period.
be limited to the
from Layoff, Sick Personal Leave or tloa
’■(Iff, on sick and onal leave or on s to work following for holiday pay eduled work shift In ay period after a 33 to the Christmas limited to the last
24.9	Where required to a
Christmas New Year period, addi be added to the holiday schedu . of this agreement, the follow!
<:complish filling the tional holidays will e. For the purpose days are holidays:
Lrg
37
1ft Yfiar	;p.B9 ,r,im
December 25, 1989) December 26, 1989) December 27, 1989)	Christmas Holiday Period
December 28, 1989) December 29, 1989) January 1, 1990) April 13, 1990	Good Friday
May 21, 1990	Victoria Dav
July 2; 1990	Canada Day
August 6, 1990	Civic Holiday
September!, 1990	Labour Day
October 8, 1990	Thanksgiving Day
2nd Year	|990- 1991
December 24, 1990) December 25, 1990) December 26, 1990) December 27, 1990) December 28, 1990)	Christmas Holiday Period
December 31, 1990) January 1, 1991) March 29, 1991	Good Friday
May 20, 1991	Victoria Day
July 1, 1991	Canada Day
August 5, 1991	Civic Holiday
September 2, 1991	Labour Day
October 14, 1991	Thanksgiving Day
3rd Yaax_	■ i»*l - 1922
December 23 , 1991) December 24, 1991) December 25, 1991) December 26, 1991) December 27, 1991) December 30, 1991) December 31, 1991) January lf 1992) April 17, 1992 May 18, 1992 July 1, 1992 August 3, 1992 September 7, 1992 October 12, 1992
Christmas Holiday Period
Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day
ARTICLE 25 - VACATION PAY
25,1	Every employee wav uoa been in the
employment of the Company during the following period will be entitled to v ication Pay based on their continuous service as follows:
continuous eeryteo
of June 30th, as
Up to Six Months Six Months to One Year One to Three 'Threeto Six „ i./Six to Ten ' ' Ten to Fifteen ( " Fifteen to Twenty pvsr Twenty
U/j >
4%
5*
6\
8%
9%
10*
In calculating the above, empl>yees who have worked less than one thousand (1,0)0) hours, shall be entitled to receive vacation pay based on percentage of the earnings during such twelve (12) month period of the vacation year.
is greater Tine-Off
4* 4%
80 80 or 120 or 120 or 160 or 200
or
or
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
None
Week
Weeks
Weeks
Weeks
Weeks
Weeks
Weeks
25.2	The above percentages shall be
calculated on their total annu; 1 earnings during the year ending May 27, 1990 - Ma/ 26, 1991 - May 31, 1992 of the year of vacation pay. In cases where employees have at least 1,000 hours worked in the vacation year and have re :eived Sidkaa&ss and Accident (S&A) benefits or vorkers1 Compensation benefits (WCB) during the y« a	'
calculation shall include a eradit for 40 hours for each week during which such employees received full week S&k or WC8 benefits, in addition to total earnings from the Company.
Employees who retire with grea t (1,000 hours worked, will reie the rate as outlined inAtticli percentage schedule if less (1.000)hours are worked.
er than one thousand ive vacation pay at 2 5,1 or the vacation than one thousand
Upon termination of employment]], an employee will be eligible to receive vacation pay based on regulations as set out in the! Employment Standards
Act,	I
The vacation pay calculation as outlined above does not include previous vacation Jpay.
39
ART.25
25.3	For the purposejs
the Annual period will be 30th of the following year
25.4 The annual vaca be selected by the Company be paid on the basis set oi
bion shutdown period will and such employees shall t above.
th s
25,5	The dates of
will be posted on the notid year. In allotting choi£i following procedure will entitled to three or more application on forms pr indicating whether or not for additional week(s) in c Vacation Shutdown period for additional 1 week(s) June 30'th. Employees requ from August 1st to June 30th choices but not more than qi month.
annual vacation periods e boards by May 1st each e vacat ion periods the ipply:	Those employees
><reeks vacation will make svided by The Company they wish consideration injunction with the Plant fnd/or for consideration omraencing August 1st to gating additional veek(s) will indicate three (3) ne (1) choice in any one
thp
dt i
Twenty percent (20%) of
(3) or more weeks of vacati$: vacation in conjunctionw be granted approval by understood for the period non-production department! allowed to re-schedule vac requesting vacation Intel maintaining an adequate stajf able to do the necessary Employees with approved conjunction with the Vacat not be eligible to apply year period. Employees en vacation must indicate thei{r the Company may exceed the above in any one year.
For employees requesting v to June 30th approval will the Company.
It is further understood vacation shutdown period ie vacations approved August considered as approved leji additional shnatiSown period
In allotting choice vacatip: will give priority of cho
of Vacation entitlement ren July 1st until June
se employees with three n entitlement requesting the Plant Shutdown will the Company. It is noted above that in the the Company will be ttions should the number fere with the Company f which is qualified and ^rork during this period. week(s) vacation in on Shutdown period will for a further three (3) titled to 3 weeks or more vacation preference, as percentage figure noted
ications from August 1st be at the discretion of
that in the event the greater than two weeks, st to June 30th will be ves of absence and the
designated as Vacation.
n periods, the Company .ce to those having the
40
greatest seniority. Application forms will be available in the Personnel Department May 1st. In order to be given consideration the Vacation Choice Application Forms must be completed and returned to the Personnel Department witiin 3 normal working days from May 1st. Vacatii m approvals will be announced by not later than Miy 15th of each year. In the event the Company schedules production during a vacation shutdown per iod, the Company will canvass by seniority in the production areas, on a department basis those employees with less than three weeks vacation to vprk prior to those employees with three or morje weeks of vacation entitlement.
Employees with three or entitlement may request EarlLr June 30th. Early vacatio submitted one month prior to ^ upon vacation approval a vac upon request, will be Issued of early vacation.
25.6	Vacation pay as a love shall be paid to
the employee prior to commenpement of his annual vacation.
tore weeks vacation * Vacations prior to requests must be acation request date; at ion payment cheque prior to commencement
ARTICLE 26 • LEAVE OB ABSENCE
26.1
(a)
<b)
General The provisions of thi purpose of mainte seniority rating dur of leave of absence purpose.
s Article are for the ining uninterrupted .ng authorized period and for no other
A leave of absence cf one (1) day may be granted by the employee's Immediate Snjxej-.vJ-SQX, except in cases involving the working day before, or the working day following a statutory holiday, excluding Saturday and Sunday, irhich must be approved in advance in writing by the Personnel Manager or his designate. Such application to be submitted at least five (5) normal working days prior :o the day requested off.
(c) The Personnel Manager] or his designate may
grant an employee a absence providing it through the employe
temporary leave of has been processed la's supervisor. A
ART.26
leave of absence writing and in no than one month, period, should c extension of the the Personnel Kan
muse bo applied for in _ case be issued for more Ab the expiration of this ircumstances warrant, an leave may he granted by ager or his designate.
tii i it
2 6.2 An ettployee reque will make application to t on a five (5) part reque Company. The fifth (5) pa retained by the employee Supervisor to forward Leave to Personnel for approval
If the enployee is not advised of the status of his
leave of absence request days from the date of appl "No Response Portion" of
fting a leave of absence a employee's supervisor form supplied by the rt of this form will be for his record. The of Absence request form
jfithin ten (10) working 'cation he must sign the the leave of absence
request form in the Parsorjnel Department. If the request is not processed within an additional two (2) working day period, it ihall be considered to be granted. The advance notice shall not apply to the
months of July and August C|f any year.
26.3
An employee who
employment while on such except for the purpose of r his seniority rights unless made in advance to cover
Plant Chairperson will be g of absence whether approvec
engages in gainful aave or renewal thereof, thabilitation, shall lose specific provisions are this circumstance. The Iven a copy of all leaves or not.
26.4	Personal
briber certain private and employee may not wish to anyone other than the Pe these circumstances an em] to the Personnel Manager absence at his discretion, will be subject to the same Article 26, Section 26.1 ( Plant Chairperson will be the employee's name receivi absence.
26.5 Sick Leave A seniority employee who i
of an illness or non-incustrial injury and who
furnishes sat la factory ev
personal conditions an divulge his reasons to t.*sonnel Manager. Under ployee may apply directly Who may grant a leave of Such leaves of absence limits and conditions in ?) of this Article. The notified, in writing, af ng such approved leave of
s unable to work because
dence thereof shall be
v i w kuw	j esv kMuiivb	oiiuxx
granted a leave of absence while disabled for an indefinite t cd subjectlto paragraph 11.5(c) of Article 1L.
“4
ART.2*
The employee will return to dork In accordance with hie seniority, provided he furnishes to the Company, satisfactory medical evidencjk of recovery prior tc the date of return. 1
26.6
(a) Pregnancy Leavi
Seniority employees who bee >
granted leave af absence froi
The leave of absence shall te, limited to six (6)
me pregnant shall be employment.
commencement of such Shorter duration upon
months from the date of the leave, but may be of a request. Such leaves may be intended beyond six (6) months, upon presentation ofJa doctor's certificate stating the necessity thereoffl.
The employee, prior to return to the Personnel Manager a medical doctor that the emplo; work.
ng to work must submit written opinion by a ree is fit to return to
(b) Adoption Leave
Seniority employees shall
absence from employment.
ae granted leave of
The leave of absence shall months from the date of comm* but may be of a shorter durat rleaves may be extended beyond ^-attenuating'TSircumstances.
>e limited to six (6) icement of such leave, on upon request. Such Bix (6) months due to
26.7 Bereavement Pay
(a) When death occurs immediate family, stepparent or
in the employee's e., spouse, parent, grandparent, parent, of current grandchild,
stepparent or graidparent spouse, child or stepchild „	,
brother, sister, stftpbrothez, stepsister, half-brother, half-sister, son-in-law or daughter-in-law, a ieniority employee, on request, will be excised, and after making written application therefore, receive payment for up to three (3) normally scheduled days < f work (excluding Saturdays, Sundays ai id holidays, or, in the case of seven-day operations, excluding regular off days anc holidays) during the period commencing w th the date of death and ending with the second calendar day after the day of the funeral, provided the employee attends the funeral.
43
ART.as

<C)
(d)
26.3
<*>
i
■ i.
J
26.9
The employee shall for the first threb
receive Bereavement Pay ‘3) full working days
on which the emplovse xs absent during the
period established
An employee who ret the date of the eligible for Berfc subsequent absence bereavement.
urns to work on or after funeral will not be avement pay Cor in conns ction with
Payment shall be straight-time hour, worked exclusive c premiums but includi premium and the i living allowance t) paid will not be for purposes of ov
Union Office Leave Any employee who is
in Subsection (a) .
any
that
mflde at the employee's y rate on the last day ol shift and overtime ng seven-day operations ♦mount of any cost-of-an in effect. Time thus counted as hours worked drtime.
elected or selected foi
(b)
a full time position with the Union shall be granted a leave ot absence for a period of one year/ with e (tension privileges/ and while on 'such laane of absence shall not lose his seniority|status/ but shall enjoy accumulative seniority.
The Company will jrant any member of the Union elected or appointed by the Union to do temporary, vor) for the Union or to attend Union conventions. Conferences or other Union b\|gl.n<jssl a leave of absence ft®"'a pSfToa of dot' exceeding three (3) months, providing the number of employees does not exceed (20) twenty employees at the same time, and that the Company is given at least four days notice whenever possible. The pay fer such leave of absence will be advanced by the Company, on a weekly basis,, tho will bill the local Union once per month at the employee's regular rate including Cost-Of-Living and Shift Premium whcVe applicable, for the wages paid as a result of the Union leave, and the Union agrejes to promptly reimburse the Company.
Conviction - Aris oneratIon af a Wat
An employee shall be granted
ing
Out of the
af Vkhtata
a leave of absence not
44
exceeding 180 calendar dayjjs during which he is
serving a sentence of imprisonment imposed for a conviction arising out of tne operation of a motor vehicle. If an extension ii required the employee may apply under the provision of Section 26.4 of this Article.	I
26.10	Jury Duty Leave
Any seniority employee who i a called to and reports N foT jiygs-'duty or as a subpc enaed witness shall be paid the difference betwetfff } is jury dutypayment or witness payment and his recliar straight time pay for each day partially or wh< lly spent in performing jury duty or as a subpoenaed witness if the employee would otherwise have been scjneduled to work for the Company and does not work. 1 further such leave may be granted by the Perse nnel Manager or his designate. In order to receive payment under this section an employee must c ive the Company prior notice that he has been sumi oned for duty and must furnish satisfactory evidence that the duty was performed on the days fori which he claims such payment.
26.11 Leave of absence s an elected office in the m
federal government for a appointed position of the
Government. Additional requested, in the event of r
I all be granted to fill inicipal, provincial or iod of one term or an’ S Provincial or Federal leape will be granted., i U-a~election.
pe r
A leave of absence shall appointed position in the mu; mutually agreed by the Compafo
>e granted to fill an qicipal government where y and the Union.
Where any such leave is for any elected union office w
such period.
ARTICLE 27 - HEALTH AND SAnfTY
Letter |2i
27.1 There shall be Committee of four (4) membe the Union, two (2) appointee
27.2	The Union Health
&6ffl)3@F5 will tour .the plant with the Company Health and safety Committee to make
recommendation to the Comp; ny, Safety of the employees, and
recommendation shall be forwarded
hours or less per day, 11 be left vacant for
ja Health and Safety , two (2) appointed by
ZB
by the Company.
and Safety Committee once a month and meet
on the Health and copy of the
to the Union.
45
ART.2 ft
Copies of the minutes of this on the Company Bulletin Boar
meeting will be posted
pa.
27.3 Should the Safety Inspector from the Ontario Government tour the |>lant, there shall be a member of the Union Safety Committee in attendance, or in the absence of the Health and Safety Representative the Plant Chairperson will accompany - -	-	-	of any subsequent
p.ny to the Ministry of the Union Health and
the Inspector. Copies correspondence from the Com; Labour shall be supplied tc Safety Committee.
27.4 The Company agrees safety Committee shall atteh three seminars as designati provided by the I.A.P.A. or shall be paid at their norvu It is understood, should th< person from the Company Safe would be entitled to payme from the Union Safety provision.
27.5 It is further ag committeeperson, as part of t the collective bargaining ag ' health or safety problem supervisor for review and re
:hat the members of the id up to a maximum of d by the Company and Ontario Government and 1 wages plus expenses.
Company send only one :y Committee, the Union for only one person ;nmmittee under this
tit
eed that each Union is responsibility under feement, can take up any with the appropriate tolution.
In the event the committeeparson is not satisfied with the supervisor's handling of the matter, the committeeperson will refer if directly to the Safety Committee.
ARTICLE 2* - WASH-UP PERIOD
UfD REST PERIOD
The Company will gr (3) minutes before tin shift (includin'|f
28.1
, three , ,
/ OlC scheduled employees.
28.2(a) A rest period of te|fj half shift will be allowed time for each rest period to by the Company and the Union
int a wash-up period of e end of each normal overtime) for all
(b) Effective January will implement, an eighteen for each half shift for additional mass relief br5 current tag relief system
(10) minutes for each for all employees. The be mutually agreed to
Bth 1990 the Company (18) minute rest period all employees. This ' ak will replace the in some areas and
46
ART*30
washrooms will be used on aA emergency basis for times other than normal rest (periods. Request for washroom relief on an emergency will be made to the supervisor, |
28*3 When overtime is scheduled for more than one (1) hour employees will Jbe granted a ten (10) minute rest period at the condllUBlon of their normal scheduled shift.
ARTICLE 2?
BULLETIN BOARDS
29.1 The Company will ma bulletin boards, one in each
ce available four (4) Cafeteria and one in
the Employees entrance for the Union's use. The Union will submit all noti :es to the Personnel Manager or his designate f >r approval prior to posting such notices. A Trading Post Board will be made available for the Sales
ARTICLE JO * WAGES
3f Articles.
Union agree that the
30.1	The Company and the _______ __________ ____
scale of wages for the job classifications in the Bargaining Unit shall be as set out in Section 30.5 - Schedule A.
30.2 (a)
trad' is
Any new shilled after the effective shall be paid at a r than the rates in e date of hire as set the Collective Barqda shall be advanced 41st calendar date additional $.30 per after hire.
employee hired on or date of the Agreement ate $.45 per hour less ^fect on the employee's out in Section 30 of ining Agreement, and $.15 per hour on the after hire and by an hour on the 81st date
b:
(b)
New employees hir< effective date of th hold a seniority unit and are not co' of Subsection (d) be a rate equal to eig of the maximum b< classification, atb classification., receive an automati
d i
I
d on or after the is Agreement who do not te in the bargaining >\}ered by the provisions low shall be hired at ity-five percent (85%) se rate of the job et than a skilled UCh employees shall increase to:
47
(1)
Ninety maximum classifijc of one h days.
percent (90%) of the base rate of the job at ion at the expiration ibndred and eighty (180)
(2)
Ninety-f maximum classifijc of three (365)
Lve percent (95%) of the base rate of the job ation at the expiration hundred and sixty-five
da f s.
(3)
The maxim olassifip of five (545)
da (
urn base rate of the job :ation at the expiration hundred and forty-five s.
Such an employee vl acquiring seniority in the bargaining u the last day worked receive a rate upop has the same rel maximum base rate of as had been attained to layoff. Upon e credited rate prog employee18 prior p the bargaining unit his rate progressist rate of the job cl purpose of applyijv Subsections (b) , employee will r< acquiring the maximji classification effe worked and will inc) of that pay period.
nit
Thereafter, such credit for seven da during which the em; credit will not be employee is on layo|f given for any pay any reason, the except in cases of occupational diseasjp Workers' compensatio of the pay period in the Christmas Hoiid employee would scheduled to work.
o is laid off prior to and who is re-employed within one year from prior to layoff shall re-employment which 4tive position to the the job classification by the employee prior uch re-employment, the cession period of the jriod of employment in shall be applied toward n to the maximum base assifloation. For the g the provisions of , and (d) only, an 4ceive credit toward m base rate of the job Active with the first day ude the subsequent days
<c>
employee will receive ys for each pay period ijloyee works except that given for any days the f. Credit will not be period during which for «mployee did not work disability for injury or compensable under the n Act and in the case which the full week of ays fall, provided the stherwise have been Each increase shall be
ART.30
effective at the bedinning of the first pay period following tpe completion of the required number of 'lays of employment.
(c A laid-off aeniorlt job classification trades, shall race l employment which position to the ma job classification the employee pr iox bargaining unit, continue to be progression provlsU prior bargaining u such re - employment; progression period ( period of employment shall be appli progression to the job classification
t a
lS
y employee hired in a other than skilled a a base rate upon res the same relative :imum base rate of the had been attained by to layoff from the Such employee shall covered by the rate ns in effect during his li t employment. Upon the credited rate the employee' s prior in the bargaining unit toward his rate ximum base rate of the
if

it a
< ri
c ua]
th i
an i
(d) New employees hir effective date of not hold a 3«ni bargaining unit but and had acquired bargaining unit ar.cl seniority due to continuous period e had acquired at period or due to hav L other than total shall receive a employment which position to the ma: job classification < the employee in his employment. Such to be covered by provisions in eff< bargaining unit amp; employment, the era period of the empl employment in the bi applied toward his maximum base classification.
(e The foregoing Subso shall not apply tt
2d on or after the this Agreement, who do ity date in the Were formerly employed seniority in the who had broken such laing laid off for a 1 to the seniority he time of such layoff rig retired for reasons permanent disability base rate upon re-!S the same relative slimum base rate of the s had been attained by prior bargaining unit employee shall continue t:he rate progression ct during his prior oyment. Upon such rail ted rate progression <yea's prior period of rgaining unit shall be rate progression to the of the job
ha
itions (b) through (d) job classifications
49
AX9.30
covered by the skilled trades section of the Agreement. '
JO. 3	The Company agrees
Thursday of each week on Coif] period ending the previous S
to pay employees on Ipany time for the pay linday midnight.
or\
30.4	Employees working
receive an off shift premium A night shift Bhall constitute which the majority of hours 7 A.M. Nothing herein entitling any day shift empl between the said hours to
addition to his overtime pay
si
a night shift shall of 30 cents per hour, e aTiy"'regular shift in tall between 5 P-M. and all be construed as eyes who works overtime off shift premium in
50
ART. 30
30. &	Classirn
Base Hour Dec. 18, I
Classifications im Non-8kjlled	\
Assembler
Gen. Maintenance 12. 58 Assembler Insp. 12,63 Sewer	12.63
Pales Operator 12.68 Stock Picker	12.68
Q.C. Inspector 12.73 Inspector Packer 12, B2 Stock Chaser	12.92
Welt Fabricator 12.98 Stockperson	13.12
Rec. Inspector 13.17 Gerber Operator 13.31 Shipping L Rec'ng, 13.42 Tool CribAtt'dt, 13.42 Truck Driver	13.42
Transport Driver 13.92
skilled Trades
Lift Truck Repair $.1A^5L7_ Sewing Mach. Rep. 15.27 Stl. Rule-Die Mkr. 15.27 Millwright	15.27
Tool k Die Maker 15.81 Electrical Tech. 15.8^2
Leader	3I over
Sewing Machine Repair • Learner Starting Rate	$14.67
Upon ratification the class Janitoress will be ii classification General Main
_	The following cl^
Lift Truck Oper; Packer/Operator present classi fh as Assembler Jigs and Pixtu Table Cutter
Btions - Schedule "A" Rates' fiffectiv fCKkOje jJan. ldfBectlfe
mo	/\ IY (Sis-.ei	y mi
13.73 13.73		$14.08 ' 13.98
13.78	13.78	14.03
13.78	14.27	14.52
13.8 3	13.83	14.08
13.83	13.83	14.08
13.88	14.57	14.S2
13.97	13 l 97	14.22
14.07	14.07	14.32
14.13	14.13	14.38
14.27	14.27	14.52
14.32	14,57	14.82
14 . 49	14.49	14.75
14.57	14.57	14.82
14.57	14.57	14.82
14.57	14 .57	' 14.82
15.07	15.07	15.32
)16.	42	$lfiuA.2	$16.62, 1
16.	72	16,72~	'TST97
16.	72	16.72	16.97
16.	72	16.72	16.97
17.	26	17.26	17.51 .
17.	27	17.27	17.52 (
group they lead
116.12	$16.12	$16.37
ficatlon of Sweeper and icorporated into the t.enance.
ssifications to deleted: or
'rate Red Circle) and tlon to be re-classified
51
ART.31
30.6
The following classifications to be (Red Circled):
Fales Leader Kales Set-Up Leaflf
Upon ratificat Leader to Classification 31 over highest understood that has no jurisdi Operator.
Gerber Operator Classification.
on the classification include all Leader ind be paid at a rate of group they lead. It being the Cutting Room Leader otion over the Gerber
to be added to list of
n “ It is recognized by J.I.T. Stockperson are separate section of the Department.
J.I.T. Stockpersn the Company that recognized as a Material Handling
Should there be an overpayment of wages, the Company autit notify employees, in writing, of withdrawing adjustments within period from date c£ such overpayment. Fjailure on the Company's part will result in any claim becoming null and void.
ART.31
ARTICLE 31 - C08T-OK-LIVIK
I ALLOWANCE
31.1 The Cost-of-Li herein shall be paid to ea worked. The amount of the in effect at any given t computing vacation pay, he call-in pay, call back pa duty pay, and subpoenaed w
1 'ing Allowance provided :h employee for each hour Cast-of-Living Allowance me shall be included in llday pay, stand-by pay, bereavement pay, jury itness pay.
31.2 The Cost-of-Livi to be based on the consume; Statistics Canada {1981 = down as specified in Artie cent ($.01) adjustment for the Average Index.
31.3	Adjustments dur
Agreement shall be made at
pg Allowance will continue Price Index published by 100) and adjusted up or Le 31, Section 3 with one each .12 5 point change in
ng the period of this the following times:
si
Effective Date March 19, 1990
First pay period beginning on or after June 18, 1990 and at three calendar month intervals thereafter to September 20, 1992.
laaed Upon Three-Month Jv«r«g« of the Consumer
Price Indexes fori
lecetobar, 1989, January tnd February, 1990
larch, April and May,
1990 and at three cal-indar month intervals thereafter to June, July, and August 1992.
In determining the three-* onth Indexes for a specified periol, the shall be rounded to the nearest .01
average of the computed average Index Point.
01.4	Effective the begi
commencing on ox after Agreement, one dollar and twe shall be deducted from the cents ($2.50) Cost of Livinb immediately prior to that dat the fun base rate fOT each
The amount of Cost of Living beginning of the pay period ratification and ending Hard dollar and twenty five cents
Effective the beginning of th > December 17, 1990, seventy ti be deducted from' the Cost qf effect on December 16, 1990 the full base rate for each c
rjning of the pay period atification of this nty five cents ($1.25) two dollars and fifty Allowance in effect * and shall be added to classification.
allowance effective the :ommencing on or after 18, 1990 shall be one ($1.25) per hour. V
pay period commencing ve cents ($0.75) shall Living Allowance in and shall be added to lassification.
01.5	Effective March 19,
ten (10^ tiaafiLfij-m<wath periods 31, Section 3, the Cost-of-Li
adjusted
table:
1990 and for the next as provided in Article dng Allowance shall be
up or down in accordance with the following
Three-Month Average	)f-Living
Consumer Price Index	owance 
153.20 -	150.04	1.26
153.35 -	153.47	T.27
153.48 -	153.59	H.28
153.60 -	153.72	'1.29
153.73 -	153.84	H.30
153.85 -	153.97	H.31
153.98 ■	154.09	'1.32
53
ART.31
...and so forth with one cent ($0.01) adjustment for each ,125 point change in tie average index for the appropriate three months oYer “i®—IJ£€&z8H| three montR average as proVicfed'iS 'Article ^action 3,
Following the adjustment for the three month period beginning December 17,	19(0, the table shall be
adjusted so that the actial three month average Consumer Price Index equiitea to the allowance actually paid during the period beginning December 17, 1990.
31.6	For each adjustme
periods beginning March increase in the cost-of-li required according to the
Ssotion 5, the amount of t each three-month period sha (10), except that the amount on December 17, 1990 shall (20). However, there sh provided herein in any thn the cost-of-living allowanc is equal to or less than th living allowance provided preceding three-month perioitl
■lit during the three-month 19,	1990 in which an
iring allowance shall be table in Article 31,
he Increase so required 1 be reduced by one cent of fncreasV so required be reduced by two cents be no reduction as e-month period in which ,e required by the table amount of the cost-of-by the table in the
Jill
31.7	In the event tha1;
not issue the appropriate Cg: before the beginning of referred to in Article 31, in the Cost-of-Llving Allcfc appropriate Index shall beginning of the first pay has been officially published.
31.8	Ho adjustment, re
shall be made due to any re made in the published calculation of the Canadiah
for any month or months on Cost-of-Living Allowance ha
31.9	The continuance
Allowance shall be continge|n of the official monthly Statistics Canada in th calculated on the same October, 1989 unless othery parties. If such agency c of calculating its Consume Index is rsquired to date Allowance pursuant to Agreement, the parties agrejB to make available, for the
b»
tie
Statistics Canada does nsumer Price Index an or dne of the pay periods faction 3, any adjustment wanes required by such be effective at the period after the Index
broactive, or otherwise, yision which may later be figures used in the Consumer Price Index, the basis of which the ? been determined.
of the Cost-of-Living
t upon the availability Indexes published by sir present form and sis as the Index for ise agreed upon by the Ranges the farm or basis r Price Index, and such zjinlne the Cost-of-Living provisions of this to request such agency life of this Agreement,
54
ART.34
a monthly Consumer Price Xnddtx in its present form and calculated on the same talasis as the Index for
October,
ARTICLE 32 - ENTRY OF PLANT PREMISES
32.1	It is specifically
event of a strife the Union w the plant premises to any Canadian Fabricated Products
agreed that in the
11 not refuse entry to salaried employee of i nd/or the corporation.
ARTICLE 3 3 - INTERPRETATION C LA08E
33.1	Wherever the fern; nine or singular has
been used throughout the abo re agreement, it shall be taken to include the masquline or plural where the context so allows.
ARTICLE 34 - SKILLED TRADES
34.1	seniority in [the skilled trades
department shall be by non-iiterchangeabla trades. Seniority lists shall be by tasic trade and will be represented by one committee Skilled Trade#.
34.2(a)
(b)
Employees working classificationcoi of the CoU-sc>;l.ve April 3/72, shalll Skilled Trades clap 3/72, have their trade classificat entering a Skil L cation after Apri: of entry seniority
member elected by the
under skilled trades tained in Schedule "A" forking Agreement dated ll’, if employed in a si float ion as of April tal seniority in their on. "Future employees ed Trades claastfl* 3/7 % , shall have date

It is understood! that a production or non-production employee shall be given preferential consideration for transfer to the Skilled Trades department over that of a new hiri
(c) Should a produc employee transfe department he sh (20) days worked his qualification be assessed. Sho show satlsfacto performance he
55
on or non-production to a Skilled Trades i be allowed a twenty riod during which time and performance shall [Id the employee Pail to qualification or i i ho i-qturned to the
ART.34
department from following basis:
1.
2.
3.
The embloyee will fill an open vacancy should one exist.
Failing displ employh
lice
In all the above cases it employee be capable of per
is necessary that the farming the job.
34,3	Skilled Tradesman affected by a layoff
may elect to displace, seniority permitting, first, a probationary, secondly, the junior employee of their trade, and thirdly the junior employee of another trade providing la is qualified. If however, a shift change is,	_
exercise seniority, overtime will not be paid under Article 23.5.
which he came on the
(l) the employee will a probationary
Failing (2) the employee will displace the junior employee in the plant with lesser senior |Lty.
Should an employee elect seniority rights to displace seniority in the plant, hn
layoff until such time as performing is available in with his seniority. This deemed to modify the specif and recall provisions.
not to exercise his an employee with lesser shall be retained on work he is capable of {the plant in accordance provision shall not be c Skilled Trades layoff
34.4	Production workers will not carry seniority into the trades classifications nor will skilled trades workers exercise seniority into production or non-productioi groups except where a skilled trade classification is discontinued or eliminated. Such employees Irill then exercise their total plant seniority for ti'e purpose of displacing a junior employee in a classification for which he is qualified, or shall exejrcise all of his plant seniority in the general production, or nonproduction group. This wilj. in no way affect the status of any employse for the purpose of "fringe benefits."
34.5	The term "jourr
used in this Article shall
layman/ j ourneywoman" njean any person:
as
56
ART.34
(a)
<b)
Who presently classification
occupation or
holds journeyman's
a skilled trades
Wn has served a bpna fide apprenticeship and holds a I certificate which substantiates is plain of such service, or
(c) Who has eight (B||> experience in classification
years of practical ’the skilled trades
which he claims
journeyman’s dealgnatLon and can prove same. A U.A.W./C A.w, Journeyman’s Card will be accepted < is proof.
The Company agrees to make ivailable on request to the Skilled Trades Committee Member proof of qualifications of any newly hired skilled trades employee. Employees transCtrring into the skilled trades will provide proof of qualification prior to filing his request for transfer.
14,6 Any further employment in the skilled trades occupations after signing of this Agreement shall be limited to journeyman and apprentices.
34.7	During any per
joumeywomen are unavailable journeymen employees whose d journeymen may be hired temporary basis to supplame skilled trades classificatlo: supplemental employees for p supplemental employees for nj
id when journeymen/ :it is agreed that non-|t.Us shall be to assist re-classified on a it the work force in a and shall be known as |eisent employees and new iw hires.
The opportunity to work as A Supplemental employee shall be offered (1) to any Diaid off Skilled Trades
ity/ (2) to seniority id off employee with
employee in order of senio employees; (3) to any la seniority who has the pfeisent ability or an adaptable skill to do the vork.	If there are no
laid off employees eligible hired on a temporary basis.
When a journeyman becomes considered for hire in a ak
new employees may be
available he will be .lied classification to
which a supplemental employe s has been assigned and if hired such journeymai will replace the supplemental employee who shall then be laid off or returned to his original department, A supplemental employee shall not accumulate seniority within the skilled trades classification but shall accumulate plant-wide seniority and may exercise such plant-
57
ART.34
wide seniority to return apply for vacancies in elsewhere in the Agreement
Should the need arise for
Skilled Trades area on ov irtime by employees other
than those in Skilled outlined in Article 12,IS
to his former job, or tc ' the plant as provided
Supplemental help in the
grades the procedure and 12.16 will apply.
Supplemental employees ottjt' receive five cents ($0. minimum journeyman's rate trade.
er than journeymen shall < >5) per hour below the of the classification or
A journeyman Skilled Trades supplement into another ti basis of his own rate of pp pay of the trade to whic
whichever is the greater.
employee who is used tc ade shall be paid on the y or the maximum rate of tt he has been assigned.
r ^d
34.8	Notwithstanding
during the model change production or nonprod qualifications as outlined supplement the skilled t paid the rate of a jour$ accordance with Schedule minimum rate. Such employ seniority within the skll^ but shall accumulate accordance with the provisions
as
the above paragraph 34.7 period any employee of t|lction possessing the in 34.5(b) or (c) used to as work force shall be eyman in that trade in "A", starting at the ees shall not accumulate ed trades classification p[lant-wide seniority in of 34.7.
34.9	Any overtime ae
first be offered for purpof skilled trades employees J overtime and qualified to . being offered to employe^: trades. The provision of ' require that the company employees from layoff.
laignment scheduled shall e of supplementation, to other trades lowest in perform the work before s outside the skilled this paragraph shall not call in skilled trades
34.10	Zn the event of
in force in any skilled trail Sewing Machine Repair and following procedure shall
(a) First new plant supplemental and thirjjl will be laid off from classification.
(b) If any furl reduced from any skilled employees will be laid off
an increase or decrease es classification except Lift Truck Repair the
ippiy:
l[ire supplemental, second probationary journeymen their skilled trades
her employees are to be classification, such or transferred in order
SB
JUV»'«4*
of their seniority from such skilled trades classification.
(c) Employees a cut back as stated in (a) oi other employees in another tr which they are qualified according to seniority withir
.'ected by a layoff or (b) above may * bump ides classification for Recalls shall be made the classification.
(d) Sewing Kachii Truck Repair classification i cut back will exercise the displace a junior employee i» the provisions of Article 13 13.6,	13.7.
a Repair and/or Lift ffected by a layoff or .r plant seniority to the plant, subject to Sections 13.4, 13.5,
Upon recall to Sewing Machi Truck Repair classifications
a layoff or cutback will re classification.
ne Repair and/or Lift employees affected by urn to their previous
Test results will be made av Trades Committee person and
ailable to the Skilled the employee.
34.11	Should a skil
possessing journeyman's qua trade as listed under the sk
request a transfer and be present classification into classification, he shall re former classification for nin after which he will forfeit his former skilled trades c date of entry. This trans layoff or recall and is limit
34.12	Any employee of
reason of advanced age or unable to perform the wo classification shall be give!
(a) Displace an seniority in another skilled which he is capable of perfo
(b) Failing (a) permitted to exercise his tot a production or nonproductli capable of performing if sucl no such job is available he leave until such a job becorn
When the employee is physic: his previous skilled trades
ed trades employee ifications in another lied trades appendices transferred from his
*nother skilled trades :ain seniority in his »ty (90) calendar days, l|is seniority rights in assification from the fjer shall not apply to ed to once yearly.
ikilled trades who by ihyelcal disability is rk in their regular the opportunity to:
employee with less trades classification iming.
iuch employee shall be »1 plant seniority into ‘on job which he is job is available. If 4hall remain on medical s available.
lly able to return to lassification he shall
59
ART.34
return with his total accumu
34.13	The Company agrees
be given only by Maintenance absence of such supervision : other Supervisor may issue obvious emergency instruct! employee.
on
ated seniority.
that instructions will Supervision. In the it is agreed that any instructions. In an s may be given by an.
the Company's Skilled
34.14	Work performed by	_	_
Trades shall be done by employees who are covered by classifications and rates ai[ outlined in schedule "A" appended to this agreement between the Company and the Union. It is urderstood that if any employee of skilled trades cannot be occupied at his
trade for a period of S hour
a per day it is agreed
that such employee shall be permitted to work in any
other skilled trades classif
as work in his own classification is available. It
is further understood that any emergency situation, during production hours ma|y be handled by any skilled tradesmen.
34,15	The Company wil
necessary training for new pneumatics in order to pJ equipment and facilities ma trades employees.
as
34.16	(a) A Group Lea(jLi
employees shall be defined trades employee, who while skilled trades occupation 1 work of other skilled trades
cation until such time
a: rc in
make available the technology including operly service plant tained by the skilled
er of skilled trades one who is a skilled Engaged in his regular Bade or processes the employees.
(b) Only a journeyman shall be considered as a Group Leader in his respective trade, on the understanding that this does not prohibit such Group Leaded from leading other skilled trades employees.
(c) The rates detailed on the schedule of Agreement.
l)or Group Leadere are wages attached to this
(d) A Group Lead as remaining in his basic t Group Leader. A Group Lea overtime outside the normal procedure where he is spec Group Leader.
34.17	If an emergency a
trades employees to work tl
er shall be considered rede while acting as a dor may be retained in overtime distribution fically required as a
rises requiring skilled hrouqh a rest or lunch
60
ART* 34
period, these employees will! receive the lost rest
nr innrh neriod the earliest
34.18	All sections of
apply to employees in the 5) the extent that if an interpretative conflict arises between the terms of this ssction and the rest of
possible tine.
this Agreement shall illed Trades except to
the Agreement, the specific section shall prevail
tarm or terms of this
34.19	Tb» Learner Program j_n the Sewing Machine
Mechanic Massification sht 1] be subject to the following:
(a) The classification shall be known as Sewing Machine Mechanic Leal
c Learner.
earned * r j months.
(b) The U period of eighteen 118J
(c) The classif be posted in accordance procedure Article 12, Secti and Section 12.3 with t resultant vacancies will be basis for the first sixty (
rogratn shall be a
cation of Learner will with the job posting 12.1 and Section 12.2 exception that the posted on a temporary <J0) working days.
cn 1 e
1.
Should a lea satisfactory performance at at sixty (60) vorki i to the classificp from which he ca
ner fail to show qualifications or y time during the first g day*, he will return tion : n the department e.
2.
Should a lealrner fail to shot satisfactory I H f l notions oi performance at any time after the sixty (60) working daws he will displace the junior employee j|n the plant with lesser seniority.
3.
34.20
When a learner working day vacancies will permanent basis.
Employees trans classification shall retain in the classification transferred. Seniority sha the Learner classification (60) working days. Provid least sixty (60) working classif ication with in twelv
smpletea the sixty (60; beriod the resultant I then be posted on
erred into the Learne: nd accumulate seniority Iron which they wer«
1 not be established it for a period of sixt* ng employees acquire a' days service In the .(.1-2J months from the
61
Page left blank Page blanche
quarterly
Committee will meet on a time 99 the employees comple understood that the I*earn|r meetings.
basis until ouch :e the program. It is r shall attend all
The company agreefk tc deduct the annual
(luring the month of er 40 {forty) hours on the return to work, '£, tor Skilled Trades reement. Deduction of accordance with the
34.28	--------„
Skilled Trades Council dues January each year, or aft employment for new hires, or if not previously checked o employees covered by the kg all dues shall be made ill provision of Article 4 - Union Security and Check off.
IBTTCLH 3S - MTTOWXTTC SHOW WEEK BENEFIT VLAN SECTION 1.
continuation and Amendment olfc the Plan
A.	The Company shall continue tc maintain the Automatic Shert Week Benefit Plan (herein referred to as the "Han") which is attached as Exhibit C to this Collecti ve Bargaining Agreement dated Dec. 16/1989. The plan aw amended shall become effective as of Jan. receipt by the Coup any of referred to in Section 4 of subject to the provisions Article, it shall read the
1/1S90 subject to the any required rulings this Article, so that, of Section 4 of this after as set forth in
"Exhibit C Automatic Short attached hereto.
B. The Company for the duration of this otherwise provided in, and the Plan.
SECTION 2.
Vieek Benefit Plan,"
hall maintain the Plan Agreement, except as ubject to the terms of
Obligations During Term of tfhe Collective Bargaining Agreei
During the te Bargaining Agreement, neit. Union shall request any cha. addition to the Plan or this to bargain with respect interpretation of the Pla during such period no chan addition to any provision,
Plan or this Article shall
ent
of the Collective r the Company nor the ge in, deletion from or Article, or be required to any provision ox or this Article; and e in, deletion from ae interpretation, of the e an objective of, or a
63
A*?.36
reason or cause for any action or failure to act, including, without limitation, any strike, slowdown, work stoppage, lock-out, picketing or other exercise of economic force, or threat thereof, by the Union or the Company.
SECTION 3.
Effective of Termination of collective Bargaining Agra
erne:
the
nt
Anything herein w filch might be construed to the contrary notwithstanling, it is understood that termination of the Agreement shall not have the terminating the Plan.
Collective Bargaining effect of automatically
SECTION 4.
Governmental Rulings
The amendment of the Plan which is this Article and to the Collective e subject to receipt by
of
c
A.
provided in Section 1 incorporated in Exhibit Bargaining Agreement shall b the Company from the Ministei| of National Revenue of any ruling, satisfactory to tfhe Company, that may be required holding that the PI Minister of National Revenue
an is acceptable to the
B.	The Company the rulings described in Section.
nhall apply promptly for »ub-section A of this
C.	Notwithstandji of this Article or of the the consent of the Union m* this Agreement, make revis inconsistent with the purpos provisions thereof which obtain or maintain any of th^ this Section or in the Plan shall adhere as closely as p and intent of the Plan.
ng any other provision lan, the Company, with y, during the term of ions in the Plan not as, structure and basic Shall be necessary to rulings referred to in Any such revisions pssible to the language
ARTICLE 36 - INJURY AT WORK
36.1	An employee injured at work shall be paid
for the balance of his scheduled shift (including overtime) on which the injury occurred if, as a result of such injury the employee requires medical treatment as defined under tqe Workers' Compensation Act,
64
An. 30
ARTICLE 37 - GENERAL ARTICLB
37 , I	The Union recogn
imposed upon it as the exolua£t the unit, and realizes tha maximum opportunities for good working oonditioa4 and must be in a strong market therefore, agrees that it w Company and support its reasonable day's work on the to strengthen good-will betvfc the customer and the public
ifzee the responsibility .ve bargaining agent of in order to provide continuing employment, rood wages, the Company position. The Chtfon, 11 co-operate with the efforts to assure a part of its members and en employer, employee,
ARTICLE 30 - DURATION
This agreement shall becams effective as ftf	?*, lene andshrjn remain in full force
and effect until 11:59 p.H^ Dec. 15,	1992 and
thereafter, it shall be automatically ceiLe-wed' from
ar, either party gives er party of the desire
year to year unless in any y notics in writing to the otl to terminate, revise or ameid this agreement, such notice to be given not earl: er than sixty days and
not later than thirty day:	prior to the annrral
termination date. If such notice is given, negotiations between the parties shall begin within ten days following such notice.
In witness thereof the parti
this agreement as of Decemb«:
of Stratford in the County oflc Perth to be effective
December 18, 1989.
is hereto have executed r 15, 1989 at the City
National Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural lapleaeat Onion of Canada, tCAW-.Canadi)_____________
Ron Pellerin Don Major
Larry Williams Robert Weyers Larry Settler Roxle Baker Judy Cupskey Sharon Lupton Li Allen Standen
Canadian fabricated Prsduots
A Division of Aoustar
ewiflix. ing._________
oes E. Thomas E. Basherian Nelson Brooks William Loebach Clifford r. weinhoid Kenneth J. Bovaird Catherine M. Horzempa Gllen H. Brown
65
RAN Cl!
AND GROUP HEAI/IH CARE BENEFITS GENERAL PROVISOES AND
rai is
Canadian Fabricated referred to as the Compin Automobile, Aerospace and A wx. Canada (<!A

1325, hereinafter referred t agreed on a Group Health c attached hereto as Exhibit Program, attached hereto as benefits to hourly rated a through the purchase of gr self-insurance funds or by insurance carriers. The benefits shall be at the »o. unless such is mandated bj Law. The Company will administration of the enrollment of employees certificates of insurance, ' cash contributions where ap forms and processing claims Governmental Units or Agenc' Programs and in lieu of si
A and a Group Insurance Exhibit B and to provide mployeea of the Company 3Up insurance policies, arrangement with group method of providing a option of the Company Provincial or Federal responsible for the ograms which include distribution of J applicable, accepting propriate, issuing claim Benefits provided by s will be part of these inilar benefits provided
La P :■
la
la
During the Term of thi will pay the,admlnistratio the group insurance and coverages contained in the f and retain any dlvldan interest or any other r* carrier, governmental uni provider. In addition, th certain group insurance ar coverages as described elsa during periods of layoff c where applicable, receive applicable employees in a which coverage is sought, will not assume any rssp which may result from the eligible to continue certai
a agreement, the Company i expenses of providing health care benefits rograms and will receive i divisible surplus, lids from any insurance
fu
B
d Vh r cti dfva
The Company, however, <J>nslb 11 i ty or liability failure of an employee n coverages to make the
66
LETTER II
Hr. R. Pellerln National Representative C. A|W. 203 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Id Funding For Education Purposes
Dear Hr. Psllerin;
(?
i ch
As a paj'l of the 1977 ndjgoti agreed that effective Rabri accrue one cent for a act vacation period) for wh bargaining unit are compenja educational purposes. Such paid at the end of each qu established by the Nation Region at their headquarters
atIons the Company ary 1,	1978, it would
hour (excluding any employees in the a tad, to be used for tccruad amounts shall be rtar into a trust fund Union CAW, Canadian
(1
upon written application a:	least four weeks in
advance, employees selected granted a leave of absence Company for a period not t<
(12) months, twenty (20) day time where necessary. Such only to employees selected educational program funded jboUy or in part from the trust fund referred to a" »ove and will be limited to four employees at any onartime in this particular program.	j
Employees granted such leaves of absence will continue to accrue seniorLfy and benefits during such leave.
by the Union shall be without pay from the exceed, in any twelve i class time plus travel save shall be available to benefit from the
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
Accepted and approved
National Union CAW R. Pellerln
National Representative C.AJ.W.
67
LETTER #2
Mr. R. Pellerin National Representative C.A.H. 205 Placer Court Willowdale. Ontario
Job MovenJent - Sewing Department
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
During the recent negi discussion was held with request for a system of j sewing department.
etiations considerable i'aspect to the Union's >b rotation within the
of all the variables of
After a thorough evaluation production requirements, schedule changes, changes in styling etc. it was found that it would Apt be practical to establish a formal rotation program. It was agreed however, that potential problem a Unic consisting of the Representative, Area Comm
iraal rotation program, r in order to address any (o n/Management committee :hairperson, Benefit | tteeperson, Production
Manager and Personnel Manageir will meet every sixty
calendar days In order to
case, which merits consideration upon employee's request to the Union and/or Personnel Manager with the view of finding a satisfactory resolution of the individual case.
review any individual
within 60 days of the
nt committee consisting and 2 members from the
It was further agreed that date of ratification, a joi of 2 members from the union company will be established to determine, assess, and implement the movement of sewers from light nature sewing operations onto more difficult operations. The goal of this process will be to obtain immediate relief for those sewers who are continuously on more difficult operations.
It was further agreed that the movement of sewers in all sections is a desired goal for the parties to achieve-
68
To this end a determined Hiwtt will be made to
promote job movement among during the 18 month period
sewers, in each section following ratification,
recognizing that this program will require extensive training of sewer operators The joint committee will meet as required to evilijate the progress that is being achieved.
Should the goals of this jllrogram not be met, the parties agree to- have traa Corporation's Labour Relations Executive, and I 'the Union's National President involved in determining that the failure of the program was for legitimate reasons.
Yours truly,
X. J. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
Accepted and agreed:
R. Rellerln
National Representative O.aJw
69
LETTER #3
Hr, R, P«U«rln
National RepresentativeC,A,W. 101 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Holiday Fav • Temporary Layoff
Dear Mr ■ l LarIn(
is laid off during the (Ifi week prior to a week in w holidays in the Christmas who worked the employee' s l prior to such layoff shall receive pay for one-half during such Christmas hoi l temporarily laid off sivil holidays following the em from such layoff. An ample shall receive pay for sucl payday following the Ch r U l
|,lch one or more of the olldv/ period falls and scheduled working day if otherwise eligible, f the holidays falling ay period. An employee receive pay for such .ley a a1 s return to work a a inde£ iriiteLy laid off holidays on the second ias holiday Deriod.
K,	J, Sovaird
Personnel Manager
70
LETTER #4
Mr. R. Pellerln
National Representative C, A iw, 20 5 Placer court Willowdale, Ontario
Overtime on Part Uljl/' Single Shift Operation
Dear Mr. PsUerlm
During the 1977 negotiatiorfs on a
bargaining agreement, consllpUr-ibW held on the Union' voluntary overtime
new collective
discussion was s rsqdlast for a system of and (formalized method of
equalization of overtime.
It is necessary to apply thaO overtime provisions of Article 23, Section 23.7 as written when plant schedules call for full departmental overtime or where necessary to meet the product requirements of our customer.
However, when time and circumstance permit, the Company is willing to consider individual requests to decline overtime assignments offered where partial operations or a single shift of a multi-shift department are sch< duled and there are qualified people who norm* lly perform the work available and willing to wor’k. Under these conditions the selection of employees for overtime assignments will start witi employees lowest in hours among those who noraaLLy perform the work according to the provisions of Article 23, Section 23.8 - 23.9 • 23.10 - 23.11 23.12.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovalrd
Personnel Manager
Accepted and agreed:
R. Pellet-in
National Representative CAW
71
LETTER #5
Mr. R. Psllarin
National Representative C. A. W|, 105 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Overtime Sch Thu One Hour r Less
As agreed during our fas company will continue its employees to bring a light ri station, when overtime is e’ (1) hour or less or when it a overtime will not exceed one
nt negotiations, the j^i'actice of allowing to their work scheduled for one )p#ars that unscheduled (1) hour.
The Company expects that ;^9 practice will be carried out in an	it lou ■ fashion.
72
LETTER 16
Mr. R, PelUrln
National RepresentativeC,A * 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Transport Drivaa <i/2) Hour Paid Lunch
Dear Mr, Pall'srlm
As agreed upon during negotia
classification of transport the function of the job outs Stratford during his normal receive a half (1/2) hour time. Also abnormal expense inclement weather or mechanl reimbursed upon receipts b company.
■aons, in the event the driver has to perform de the city limits of lunch peri/nrfl, he will
id lunch at straight ncurrsd as a result of al break down will be ng presented to the
Yours truly,
K, J. Sovaird
Personnel Manager
73
LETTER #7
Mr, R, Pellerln
National Representative C, A .vj 105 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Multi-Shift tours of Work Schedule
Dear Mr, pallerini
As agreed during our 1977 negotiations, considerable discussion was held regarding the desire of
employees assigned to muIt is an early quitting time an working the afternoon shift;
111. ft operations to have Friday evenings when In order to address
this situation the Company in willing to offer such
employees the right to work
afternoon shift pattern provided the majority of the employees involved choose	'	'
shift on this modified work
Monday Through Thursday
bhe following modified
13 work the afternoon Jittarn.1
J hour shift worked at
An eight and one-half (8 \/‘< straight time rates Including COLA plus shift premium with two paid eighteen (18) minute rest periods, and a 30 minute unpaid lunch period.
Friday
A six (6) hour shift worked <it straight time rates including COCA plus shift	with two paid
eighteen (18) minute restt periods, subject to approval of the Minister of labour under Sections, Employment Standards Act, 1976,
Note:
All hours worked beyond >*vg hours Monday through T'nutr Friday will be considered c time and a half. Any time per week shall be considere at time and a half.
In order to determine whet on multlshift operations de
^ and one-half (8 l/l) ay and six (6) hours and paid for at t irked over forty hours overtime and paid for
sr or not the employees e to take advantage c£
74
this proposal, enployees involved will be requested to make known their prefeneiioa on a ballot to be conducted jointly by the personnel Department and the Union Chairperson. | Ballots will be made available within two weeka after ratification of
f contemplated schedules r shall be effective provisions of Article Work and Overtime, and When and where such e, Article 23, Section i 28.2 shall continue to
paid holidays shall be
la Friday, during the lours of work shall bnday—Wednesday and 6 >rked at straight time shift premium with linute rest periods, j|nch period.
Mond ay-Thursday the Shall be extended by :ach holiday falling rbrk week and the 1Section 23,1 related yrtime shall become >n of the shift.
itminated by either party bn notice in writing tc
K. J, Bovaird
Personnel Manager
Accepted and Approved National Union, CAW
R. Fellerin
National Representative CAW
75
LETTER #*
Mr. R. Pellerin
National Representative C.A 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
rug and Alcohol Abuse
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
The Company and Union recognise the problem of Drug and Alcohol abuse and furth agree to enlarge the program in the areas of edl fcion and awareness to its employees.
The present committee of on | ppainted by the Union and one appointed by the Company will continue to work together to assist emp] | >«3 with a Drug and/or Alcohol problem.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
76
LETTER |9
Mr. R. Pallerin National Representative C.A.N, 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Job Rotationl- Doorline, Dielectric and Min"-') Button Operations
Dear Mr. Pellsrln
Management to Rotate Cielectric and‘manual ticularly on strenuous :annot be done on a : product mix which ling, and the necessity for on-line employees.
lire Packer Operators, botn on-line ana on-line, can and will be rotated. Periodically a Packer Operator will be asked to temporarily perform an Assenplers function due to absenteeism or model mix, irl this case the Packer Operator will continue to geq bis normal pay rate.
It will be the intent Assemblers on the Doorline, button pounding operations pa operations. However, it scheduled basis because o requires continual remanassig to provide replacement-relief
It is further agreed that Oooi
Yours truly,

K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
77
LETTER HO
Mr, R. Pdllerin
National Representative C, A 20$ Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
fnu vo Punch Time Card
As agreed during ne^otUtU to punch his clock card he by his supervisor. A sups' that the employee congarru will note thereon "Mo Penar bo punch during a pay jpirit deduction of sjl% (6) minutyi
is if an employee fails bust have it initialled ,aor, if he is satisfied . was on duty on time, in'" for one such failure , In all other cases a from regular time will
K« J. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
LETTER 111
Mr. R. Pellerln National Representative C, A, 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Union Notlfi tlcm on New Equipment
As agreed upon during negotli notify the Plant Chairpe Committeeperson, and area Con
.ons, the Company will on, Skilled Trades •.tteeperaon of any new
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
79
LETTER #12
Mr. R. Pellerln
National RepresentativeO.A.^. tOi Placer Court willowd4La, Ontario
Adoranticeship Programme
DearMr. Pellerinr
During negotiations for rcfpewal of our current
Collective Agreement, there
need to establish an apprenticeship programme.
The Company reviewed our n future, and current aconomifc stated that, in our opinio,) such a programme was no£_apF time.	1
was discussion on the
feds for the immediate conditions, etc. and , the introduction of ropriate at the present
overall conditions, to jus Uy an Apprenticeship f’rO'pr-aftwTU
the introduction of
Should our expectations m Serialize we will meet with the Union to negotiate the introduction of such
K. J. Sovalrd
Personnel Manager
8 0
LETTER #13
Mr, R. Pellerln
National Representative o. a.w, 5 05 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
SkllUJ Trade's Tools
Dear Mr.
As agreed during the negotiations the following Letter of Understanding:
Metric Tools
Other than the tools a trkdssr.an is personally required to provide, the Company will maintain the necessary tools in the Crib for the use of Tradesmen.
Theft of Tools
In the event of a theft of ^ Tradesman'spersonal tools,, they will be replace/] upon verification by the Maintenance Super intendeivL
Broken or Worn Tools
The Company agrees to replace tools which are broken or won enployment. Such broken o
presented for exchange.
Each tradesman must provide Superintendent for verifies1 value a list of current tools
Reverification of the tools Maintenance Superintendent
necessary.
tradesman' s personal during the course of worn tool must be
to the Maintenance J, on and replacement in his possession.
may
ihVwn
be made by the he deems i t
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovalrd
Personnel Manager
LETTER #14
Mr. R, Pellarin National Representative C. A. W 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
CovaralLa/Smocks
Dear Mr, Pellarin
During the l1?89 negotiations,
Company will review the nffcthod of covaralls/smocks and endea' coveralls/smocks will be Usu Skilled Trades, Material V andling, Maintenance and that that/ will maintained.
it was agreed that the issuing of our to ensure that only to employees in and General be properly
Yours truly,
K. J. Sovaird Personnel Manager
s;
LETTER US
Mr. R. Pellerin
National RepresentativeC.A, 205 Placer Court Wll Low-daU, Ontario
Tr iln<? • New Technology
Dear Mr. Pallarln:
as agreed upon during negotl ions employees where applicable shall, be ^rainasL. i service or operate any _ new technology naghine) or equipment being lnSro'iuo'£>d to the production
This training will be made a U-iMe through short range specialized prcgrarrme! deemed necessary to implement this new technolo* where it is agreed that such work falls with the scope of the bargaining unit.
Yours truly,
K. J, Sovalrd
Personnel Manager
a3
LETTER IK
Mr, R, Pallarirv National Representative C, A ■ W 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
SSA and \tcti Return to Work Program
Dear Mr. PelLarln
During our recent negotiations it was agreed by bath the Union and Management that it was highly desirable that Employees absent due to Sickness & Accident or Workers' Compensation, be returned to
work as soon as possible.
It was further agreed that to this end, recognizing restrictions.
In order to assist the Beriefit Representative and Personnel Manager, employesa must present to the Personnel office, medical documentation outlining all medical restrictions ind medical restriction letters must be up-dated or a monthly basis, unless a permanent disability is (established and accepted by the company.
both parties would work physical and medical
The Company will meet perio review the status of emp). Medical Restrictions.
plcally with the Union to oyees on benefits with
It may be necessary for the employee to attend such meeting.
Permanent/Long Term Disability
Should an employee, with i permanent or long term disability, return to work with Medical Restrictions and be required to work iti another department, the employee will retain Surplv s/Recall rights under the terms of the Collective Ajreement for a period of twelve (12) months. At any time during the twelve (12) month period should transfers to other departments be required due to additional medical problems, the employee wi.1 exercise his seniority under the surplus language. An employee will be assigned permanently t> the department and classification in which h« is located at the end of the twelve (12) month period.
Short Term Disability
Should an employee suffer :u soor': term disability, the Company will endeavour tjo place the employee In a OepactTnent/ClaaalfIcationl <chat will meet their medical restrictions, provided the department is not in a surplus situation. Employees on short term disability will be ineligible for temporary transfers or partial overt inia assignments.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
85
LETTER #17
Mr. R. Pellerin National Representative C.A. 203 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Job 0p{ rtunity in a New Plant
parties discussed the subje< Company has advised the Ul circumstances of Company bus which has a major impact on Products plant and will r layoff of a majority of the company will meet with I National Union to discusi decision and the opportunity consideration at other Chi Canada plants in Ontario.
1$£9 negotiations the . of job security. The ')n that in the event QSS require a decision le Canadian Fabricated Ult in the Permanent in roll employees, the preservatives of the the impact of such or preferential hiring Ler Canada or Acustar
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
fit
LETTER 118
Hr, R. Pellerin National Representative C.A-205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Pay Shortage Cree r Than Four (4) Hours
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
During our recent negotiant s it was agreed that should there be a pay shortai greater than four (4) hours the Company will make pay adjustment on the same pay day, providing a c plaint is made to the Company prior to 1:00 P.H.
Tours truly,
K. J. Bovalrd
Personnel Manager
87
LETTER #1*
Mr. R. Pallsrin National Representative C . A • ^ 209 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
In t| ant Lighting and Fans
Dear Mr, Psllerln:
As agreed during negotlatid is, the Company will ensure adequate lighting is provided in the plant and all fans will be reviswal and in working order by April 1st of each year.
Tours truly,
K, J. govalrd Personnel Manager
B&
LETTER #20
Hr. R, Fellerin National Representative C.AJW 205 Placer Court Willowdale. Ontario
Traffic Lights and Bike Path
Dear Mr. Pellerin;
Curing our recent' negotiations it was agreed that the Company and Union will take a joint submission to City Council on traffic lights and a bike path.
Yours truly,
X. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
89
LETTER #21
Mr. R. Pelierin National Representative C. A 2OS Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
D] rLbution of Literature
Dear Mr. Pelierin:
During the l'SSi negotiatlo the Company agreed to continue its practice of al swing C.A.W, Local 1325 to distribute non-politi 1 literature at the Employee entrance and will llgw such distribution inside the Employee ent nee during inclement weather.
Yours truly,
K. J. Sovaird Personnel Manager
9<
Hr, R. Paliarin
National RepresentativeC.a|w. 105 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Dear Mr. Pellerin
tEvrm #aa
Health and Safety
During negotiations of 19 Company had considerable c pertaining to Health 4 Safety
the Union and the scussion over matters
As a result of those discus the Company and the Union,
participate fully in all Hea which are directed by Chrysl
qtlons and the concern of both parties agree to Lth and Safety programs r Canada.
In addition, both parties ag^oed that the following letters contained in the 1981 Chrysler Canada * CAW Master Agreement would bell recognized and have
Letter 70 Letter 72 Letter 75
Letter 7$ Letter 77 Letter 78 Letter 79 Letter 82 Letter 83 Letter 84 Letter 8 5 Letter 86 Letter 87 Letter 88 Letter 89 -Letter 91 Letter 94 Letter 95 Letter 96 Letter 97 Letter 99 Letter 100 Letter 101
Letter 10 3 Letter 104
JoumeymanjkWoraan Safety Training Committeep irson Safety Training New Employ io Health and Safety Tralnlrv f
Periodic Safety Talks CPR and Fh'flt Aid Training Protective Clothing
Safety Cl as tses
Hands out < £ Point of Operation Working -a l < he Lockout/Tac out Program New or Relocated Equipment Ergonomics Heat
Heat Stres Medical Su confident!
Noise i\bat Chemical I Chemical 0 Breathing Preventive Health 4 S Contact Pr Safety Rep Refusal
Official sftkety Complaint Form Minute of Silanea
Index	__
alliance Programs Medical Information ent Program ormation a Link CCOHS ne Sample Results aIntenance sty Use of Camera ;:edure of Health 4 tentative for Work
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovalrd
Personnel Manager
91
LETTER #23
Mr. R. Pellerin National Representative C.A.W.I 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Warehouse (City of Stratford)
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
The Company agreed during the 1983 negotiations that should stock or production arterial be located anc used in a regular warehouie and/or productior facility in the city of Stratford that the said wor> will be performed by the bargaining unit members.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
92
LETTER 124
Hr. R. Pelierirv National Represen tative C. A. Vi 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Contract ■ m - Maintenance Work
Dear Mr. Pallerin:
During the 1983 negotiations i ) Company agreed that when maintenance work is raqp red the Company will P/lttact work in or out • the plant providing ma permits and employees have the necessary ability to perform the requlr work.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
93
LETTER #25
Mr, p, PelLsrln National Representative C. A .fW. 203 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Vacation Scheduling
During negotiations considerable discussions took place between the Union ard the Company over the many problems resulting from early vacation scheduling. In order t< maximize the use of vacation time during periods more advantageous to employees it is the CompanyPs intention to schedule vacation shutdown periods after July 1st of any vacation year.
should assembly plant requ a deviation from this sche and the Local Union wll preceding April 1st along
This assurance should WO employees in the pre-pla schedules during prime t:n
•ments in any way cause 1«, the National C.A.W. be so advised by the Ith reasons therefore.
X towards accommodating ning of their vacation
X. J. Bovalrd Personnel Manager
LETTER #26
Hr. R.
National Representative C, A.fc 20$ Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Sexual Harassment
Dear Mr, Pal Ur In:
During our recent n ego t Ut lanai cotM Management and Union representatives agreed tl lat there is no place in the work environment for sex|ial harassment in any form.
It was further agreed by bo
offended party must make it kn awn to the harasser,
that the h-ar v* s*r ’ a actions an cease immediately,
h parties that the
not wanted and must
be raised with the Union and/or
Should there be further ha rossient a complaint may
Following such a complaint, a leetLng will be held at the earliest possible time with tiv'i Personnel Manager, Plant Chairperson, viltim and harasser to bring the problem to an immediate resolution.
Company.
Yours truly,
K. J, 8ovaird
Personnel Manager
95
LETTER #27
Mr, R, Pellerin National Representative C.A|.w. 205 Placer court Willowdale, Ontario
New Hire Xntroductia
Dear Mr. Pellerihi
During our recent discusslbn the management agree that any new hire would be allotted a period of ti» not to exceed 15 minut is for the purpose o introduction to the Chairperson or his designate.
The introduction is to taka place on the employee'
first day of employment agreeable to both Union anc of their shift.
at a location mutuall Management, at the star
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
LETTER #28
Hr. R. Pellarin
National Representative C,A.WI ? 0 5 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
2d Funding • Child Care
Dear Mr. PeUerin:
During the 1983 Collective 3arJ the Union discussed at great adequate child care facilitife children of employees.
aining negotiations, length the need for in Stratford for
The Company advised the Union that, while it recognized the employee's neejk for such services, its resfeurcad did not permit it to provide full funding for such jprogranunes. However, the Company agreed to participate with the Union in approaching the appropriate governmental bodies to request that child care CacliltjUs be established in Stratford and to co-operafe lull1/ in any studies required by the government as conditions precedent to the establishment of such piogramme.
care programme is [h government funding
in the future, a child
"established in Stratford,threw _	_
or otherwise, and the Union eleuts to participate in such programme the Company will upon request of the National Union, contribute $0.02 per compensated houar,, effective Geoaimfejsr 1 <s, 1.9.14, to be used toward funding of services forCanadiai Fabricated Products employees in that programme. f it is decided not to implement the child care proi ramme, the $0,02 per compensated hour will be utilized an narties may mutually agree.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
97
LETTER #29
Mr. R. Pellerin National Representative C.AlLW. 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Wage Rate - Sweeper, Janito^ass, General Maintenance
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
During the 1983 nagotiatior discussion regarding the c Janitorpaa and General Mai the above wage rates i classification - sewer.
there was considerable ^assification of Sweeper-tenance with regards to n relationship to the
new hires and employees tlon Sweeper-Janltoress
Effective December 15, 198 placed into the claasific and General Maintenance flroB the effective date, will be paid in accordant ,| with Article 30.02 to a
rate $0.05 below the clas change not to affect cun employee posts to another
Ification of Sewer. Rate pt employees unless such glassification.
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
LETTER #30
Mr. R. Pellerin National Representative C.A. 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
afety Shoe Allowance
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
During our recent negotiations it was agreed that the Company will provide a safety shoe allowance, for all Skilled Trades, Material Handling and General Maintenance employe* of $50.00 per year toward the purchase price.
It is understood that if an] 7, the above purchase safety shoes, the safety sho Tiust be worn.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
99
LETTER m
Mr. x. Pellerin
Uaf<nniil	C.A(<W.
205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Classifications Packer/Operate andI Assembler to be Combine
Dear Mr. pellerin;
During tbs 1986 negotiations there was considerabl
discussion regarding • the Packer/Operator and Assembler.
classification
Effective the first Monday following ratificatia the Packer/Operator classification has been combine with the classification Assembler. Any pa increases will be passed on to those employee presently in the classification of Packer/Operato and from the effective data, new hires and employee entering the classification will be paid a Assemblers In accordance with Article 30.2.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
30
LETTER #32
Mr. R, Psllerin
National Representative C, A > W 50$ Placer Court Wiilovdale, Ontario
Ergonomics
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
During the 103A Negotiations'. ,— /as considerable discussion regarding Ergonomi^
The Company agrees to meet with he committee during the term of the agreement 't the purpose of selecting two (2) members fr< the, committee who will jointly with company rspc* ntatives review the practical problems of	i< in the work place,
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovalri
Personnel Manager
101
LETTER #33
Hr. R. Pellerin National Representative C.A-W* 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Smoking Policy
Company would review tha present smoking policy. Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
LETTER #34
Hr. R. Pelterin
National Representative c. A . v. 20$ Placer Court Willowdale. Ontario
Jo Assignment Practices
Dear Hr. Pellerin;
During the 3.489 negot ations tjhe Union and Company had considerable discussion! pertaining to job assignment practices.
The parties acknowledged the c of Management having the t
utilise the shill's and exparldn
to maintain the highest leveli and1 the efficiency of its opere : acknowledge that under normal desired result is best ac employees performing a regular
impetitive importance cxibility to fully ce of its employees
of product quality ions and to that end cuL^scNontsihaitvses ved by qualified assignment.
f ia
The Union recognizes the Com>any's need for and right., because of absenteeism rand other production requirements, to reallocatl manpower within classification to maintain desijred levels of quality and operational efficiency.
io i
The Company assured the Un condone nor will it permit employees for retaliatory favouritism, as a punitive mea of harassment. The Company position during supervisory tr held after ratification^ the
that it does not the assignment of reasons, out of ;urs or for purposes will reaffirm its alining sessions to be ftareament.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovalrd
Personnel Manager
103
LETTER #35
Mr. R. Pellerin
National Representative C.A. 205 Placer court Willowdale, Ontario
Union Dues [Deductions For Retirees
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
During recent negotiations I the Company agreed to deduct monthly Union dues jram Retirees authorized by the constitution of tBB Union. Union dues deductions will be identified on Retirees T4 slips.
Very truly yours,
Kenneth J» Bovaird Personnel Manager
LETTER #36
Mr. r. Pelierin
National Representative C.A.WJ
Wage Rate - Packdr/Operator,
Pales Leader, Fal|ais Set-Up Leader
Dear-Mr, Pellerin:
During the 1986 negotiations tiere was considerable discussion regarding the rlassi f icat ions -Packer/Operator, Files Leader and Tales Set-up Leader.
loving ratification, placed into the
Effective the first Sunday fo new hires and employees
classification of Faiea Leadir' and Faies Set-Up Leader will be paid in accordance with Article 30.2 and 30.5. Rate change nco to affect current employees unless such employ <e posts to another classification.
It is further understood affective the first Sunday following ratification ej pioyaes presently classified as Packer/Operator illi be re-classified as Assemblers but rate change r ot to affect current employees unless such employees post to another classification.
Very truly yours,
Kenneth J ■ Bovaird Personnel Manager
105
LETTER #37
Hr. R. Pallarin
N*h.1nn»1	lve C.X.W.
20S Placer Court Willordale, Ontario
Qualifications ^nd Testing For Vacancic
Dear Hr. Pellerini
During the 1989 negotiations there was considerahl discussion regarding the qialifloations and testir for vacancies in the plant. It was agreed that tt Plant Committee will be penaitted to review all tee results. It was further ajgreed that tests will t
• M ^WA AUAAUUjfriAA
IAA#. 4
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
LETTER 138
Mr. R. Pallerin
National Representative 0. A . W 10 5 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Pneumatic A1tactons 5 to Sewing Machines
Dear Mr . Feller in;
During the 1999 Negotiation! it was agreed that pneumatic attachments to sei* ">g machines will be installedby Millwrights initl 11/ and maintained by Sewing Machine Repair.
It was further agreed that the _Skilled Trades Department will continue the Jractice of changing the brushes on the power acrul ‘sr-
Yours truly,
X. J. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
107
LETTER #39
Hr. R. Pellerin
National Representative C.n.g. 205 Placer court Willowdale, Ontario
Leader - Exercise Seniority
classification of Leader will not be permitted to exercise seniority from oni department under Articles ljl and 14.
Yours truly,
K. 3. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
10
LETTER #40
Mr. R. Pellarin
National Representative*?. A.ljr.
Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Shift dh-ingqs ror Personal Reasons
Dear Mr , p* i ierln:
During the 198$ Negotiat ions <|oiis iderable discussion was held regarding employee requests to change shifts for personal reasons, j
The Company agrees to consider requests to change shifts providing the request is made to the Personnel Department and that! minImaL disruption of production will occur.
Your truly,
K. J. 8ovaird
Personnel Manager
109
LETTER #41
Hr. R. PelUrin
National Representative C, # > W, 10 5 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Thursday Paycheque Distribution
DearMr. Psllarln;
In the negotiations Isadlji bargaining agreement, the In exploring innovative to enhance employee moral while, at the same time, product quality.
q to the new collective rtlas expressed interest s of doing business so as e and job satisfaction nproving productivity and
Within this context the C Thursday distribution of employees on a one hundrb trial period beginning w ratification of the agraeif i
ampany is agreeable to a paycheques to day shift d and eighty (180) day within 30 days of the nt.
tardiness or discontinuedby the Comp< the Local and National U
'm, the program may be ty at any time after giving ion advance notice.
K. J, Bovalrd
Personnel Manager
10
LETTER 142
Mr. R. Pellerin	.
National Representative C.A.wt 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Plant Entranc«/Exi|: and Plant Exit Doors
it was agreed that employees will be i bottom of the Main tt/exit.
exit doors will be eather permits.
K. J. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
111
LETTER #43
Mr. P. Pellerin
National Representative C.jp.W. 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Lockers
Dear Mr* Pellerim
During the 1989 Hegotiitidn- the Conpany agreed to provide lockers for employees 4n SklUed ffl&gS, General Maintenance, Material Handling and Centrt stores and far the Quality] Control Inspectors.
Yours truly,
X. J. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
12
LETTER #44
Hr. R. Pallerln
National Representative C, A.i Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Reinstated Grievances
Dear Mr, pallet In:
During the 1339	Lai
acknowledged the desirability fair and final resolution cC| The parties also recognized a stable, effective end procedure is necessary to ini principle to whicn the} Accordingly, the parties v reinstate a grievance prop« oonutiGBicy to the purpose for procedure was established a: fundamental principles of coll
However, in those instanceswht (CAW-Canada) , by either its <ii) Public Review Board or Convention Appeals Coiwnltfce* disposition of a grievance disposition was improperly eff a Union representative involve m y inform the Manager Staff writing that such grievance grievance procedure at the original disposition of the gr
It is agreed, however, that th« be liable for any claims for da pay claims, arising out of the (I) are already barred under aforementioned Agreement at reinstatement of the grlevanc to the period between the cLLspaslfjkm and tiae time of provided herein. It is reinstatement of any such TOTrdlhi'orred ’upon ‘the prior ag and the employee or employees them will thereafter pursue su
.heprovisions of the the time of the or (li) that relate me c f the original he jrela&hahemsnt a& further .agreed that the grievance shall be reement of the Union involvei that none of claims for damages
in
Page left blank Page blanche
Page left blank Page blanche
LETTER #4<
Mr. R. Pellarin
National Representative ClA.W. 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
New Hire Sewer
Dear Mr. Pellerin:
Any new hire sewer, vhe, posts out of the Sewer Classification within t’heF nine (9) months following date of attainment of s*n|iorit^ will be required to complete the full Sevi r Training Program for reconsideration as a SevJ fc.
Yours truly,
K. J. Bovaird
Personnel Manager
I 16
LETTER #47
Mr. R. Pellerin National Representative C,A,|pf, 205 Placer Court Willowdale, Ontario
Wage i^:ogression/COLA Fold-In
Dear Mr, Pellerin:
For the purposes of admin provisions of the new Collec agreed that employees hired date of the new Agreement v provisions of Article 30 sha of their base rate determine 90%, or 95%, as the case may rate under the 1989 Agreement of-living allowance fold-in
storing the new hire tive Agreement, it was prior to the effective io are governed by the 1 have the calculation i on the basis of 85%, 3e, of the maximum base r except that the cost-ffective the beginning an or after the receipt
of the pay period commencing of notice of ratification wilU not be subject to the reduction to 85%, 90%, or 951%, as the case may be, but shall be transferred |to base rate without reduction.
Yours truly,
X. J. Bovaird Personnel Manager
117