Agreement
between
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
and the
CAWWTCA
CANADA
OCTOBER 25,1990
PRODUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
iJEf '!)
d ■:'>	/ A
TABLE OF: CONTENTS
PURPOSE AND INTENT................
RECOGNITION
Employees Covered.................
Management Rights.................
Excluded Personnel................
Equal Application of Agreement . . . .
NO STRIKE OR LOCKOUT
Strikes and Lockouts Prohibited . . . .
UNION SEICURITY
Requirement of Union Membership . . .
Check-Off........................
Deductions.......................
Indemnification .................
REPRESENTATION
Number of Zones ..................
Stewards.........................
Plant Shop Committeepersons ......
Abuse of the Procedure............
Conduct of Union Representatives .
Regular Conferences ..............
Special Conferences...............
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Time of Answers..................
Presenting a Grievance ...........
Step I ..........................
Step 2	..........................
Step 3	..........................
Step 4 — National Review and
Appeal to Appeal Board .........
Membership of the Appeal Board ....
Authority of Appeal Board ........
Time of Appeals..................
Time Limit on Claims..............
Payment of Back Pay Claims........
Section
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11 12
13
14
15
16
17
IS
19
20 21
22
23
24
25
26 27
Page
2
3
3
4
4
5
6 7 7
7
8
11
13
14
15
15
16
16
17
17
18 18
19
20 21 23
23
24

Computation of Back Wages . . .
Retroactive Adjustments.......
Withdrawal of Cases ,.........
Finality of Decisions.........
Appeal for Interpretation.....
Law Suits ,...................
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
Maintenance of Discipline .... Notice of Suspension, Disciplinary Layoff or Discharge ......
Union Representation..........
Appeal of Discharge...........
Use of Past Record............
WORK STANDARDS
Work Standards................
SENIORITY
Probationary Employees. . . .
Seniority Lists...............
Loss of Seniority.............,
Exceptions to Seniority and Job Opportunity Provisions —
Disabled Employees............
Reinstatement After Disability .
Change of Address.............
Shift Preference........, . .
Overtime Equalization Agreements Plant Memoranda of Understanding
LAYOFF AND RECALL
Layoff Definitions ,..........
Notice of Layoff . ,..........
Recall........................
TRANSFER AND PROMOTION
Transfer of Employees Between Plants .......
Section Page
28
29
30
31
32
33
24
25 25 25
25
26
34
26
35
36
37
38
27
27
27
28
39
28
40
41
42
36
37
38
43
44
45
46
47
48
40
40
42
42
42
43
49
50
51
43
44 44
52
44
ii
Section
Page
Transfer of Operations
Between Plants..................
Discontinuance of Operations . . , . . Job Security and Outside
Contracting.....................
SUPPLEMENTS Special Provisions Pertaining to Skilled Trades Employees . . . . Provisions Pertaining to Apprentices .
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Leave for Good Cause.........., .
Leave for Union Business .......
Bereavement Pay . . . ,...........
Jury Duty ,.............., . . . .
WORKING HOURS
Call-in and Call-back Pay ........
Shift Premium and Hours . . . .
Time and One-Half ................
Double Time.............., . . . .
Seven-Day Operations .........
Seven-Day Operations Premium . . . . Overtime Pyramiding Prohibited . . . .
Lunch Period......................
Payment for Day of Injury ........
Workweek Defined .................
Reporting Absences ...............
VACATION SCHEDULE
Schedule and Notice ..............
HOLIDAY PAY
Holidays Designated .	.	.	.	.	.
Eligibility .	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.
Employees Laid Off or Going on
Sick Leave. .	.	.	.	.	.	.	.
Employees Returning From Layoff or Leave of Absence	.	.	.	.
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60 61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70 7 I 72
73
74
75
76
77
45
46
46
47
48
48
49
50
51
52
52
53 53
53
54
55 55
55
56 56
56
56
58
60
60
Section
Page
Holidays Falling on Saturday or Sunday
Employees on Leave of Absence for Jury Duty or Vacation . .
Holiday Pay -- Christmas Holiday Period .	.	.	.
Holiday Pay .-Temporary Layoff .
P.A.A. and Holiday Pay Eligibility Return to Work on Friday Holiday
Seven-Day Operations.......
Failure to Report for Holiday Work
PAYMENT IN LIEU OF VACATION AND PAID ABSENCE ALLOWANCE
Payment Schedules , . , ,........... 86
Eligibility ,........................87
UNION BULLETIN BOARDS	....	88
S.U.B.P., INCOME MAINTENANCE/ VOLUNTARY TERMINATION, INSURANCE, RELOCATION ALLOWANCE,
AND LEGAL. SERVICES............. 89
WAGES
Cost-of-Living Allowance Wage	Increases .	.	,	.	.
Rates During Agreement ,
Rate Book .	.
Rates for New Jobs .	.	.
Wage	Progression	.	.	.	.
CONCLUSION
Withdrawal of Demands and
Separability of Provisions	...	96
Termination and Modification	.	.	97
Notice........................ 98
91
92
93
94
95
.	78
.	79
.	80
.	81
.	82
.	83
.	84
85
60
60
61
62
62
63
63
63
63
68
69
70
70
73
75
75
76 76
IV
STATEMENT OF POLICY NO. 1 ABLE TO SATISFACTORILY
PERFORM ..................
SPECIAL. PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO SKILLED TRADES EMPLOYEES , .
PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO APPRENTICES ....
APPRENTICE STANDARDS
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
HEALTH AND SAFETY ,	.	.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
PLANT CLOSINGS............
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING UNION DUES DEDUCTIONS . .
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
DISTRIBUTION AND RECORDING OF OVERTIME ....
SCHEDULE “A”
BARGAINING UNIT DESCRIPTIONS .	.	.
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT TEMPORARY PART-TIME EMPLOYEES .	.	.
81
82
103
115
120
131
133
137
144
147
LETTERS
Subject
REPRESENTATION
Benefit Plans Representatives......
CAW National Health and Safety Co-Ordinator . , . . . Additional Health
and Safety Rep. - WAP............
Full Time Health & Safety
Rep. - Etobicoke . . . ,.........
Workers’ Comp. Rep........., . . . .
CAW Health & Safety Tmg.
Coord. - Windsor Area............
Overtime/Temp. Layoff Work
Opportunities ............
Payment of Union Representatives During Local Negotiations , . . , . .
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Grievance Procedure ...............
Reinstated Grievances . , . . , . . . .
Time Limit on Claims ..............
Grievance Disciplinary Action......
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
Application of Section (35) . . . . Discipline on Afternoon
and Midnight Shifts .............
Discipline on Standards ...........
WORK STANDARDS
Work Standards ....................
SENIORITY
Hiring Practice ...................
Preferential	Hires	.	.	.	.	.	.	.
Preferential Hires - Plant Closure	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.
Temporary Part-Time Employees . . .
Letter
NO.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Page
153
157
159
160 161
164
165 167
169
170
174
175
177
178
179
180
182
183
185
186
vi
Letter
Subject	No.	Page
TRANSFER AND PROMOTION		
Supervisors Working . . . ,	2 I	187
LEAVE OF ABSENCE		
Bereavement Pay		22	188
WORKING HOURS		
Pay Practices 		23	191
Paid Lunch 		24	196
(66)(c) Seven Day Operations ....	25	197
Starting Times in Plants 		26	198
3rd Shift Oprs. Sunday Night Start . .	27	199
HOLIDAY PAY
Prob. P&M Emps. Formerly
on Salary....................... 28	200
Holiday Pay - Attending CAW Leadership Tmg. Prog. . . . , .	29	201
PAYMENT IN LIEU OF: VACATION AND PAID ABSENCE ALLOWANCE
(86)(f) Eligibility		. 30	202
Special Payment - $500 .......	31	203
Holiday - Occurring in Week of		
Sch. Vat:. Shut-Down 		32	204
Vac. & P.A.A. -Encouragement to		
Take Time Off ,		33	205
WAGES
Accumulation of Time
- Higher Classification		34	206
Reclassification . . . . . . . .	35	208
COLA-Calculation . . . . . .	36	209
Wage Progression . . . . . . Wage Progression - Employee	37	212
Covered by WCA		38	213
Wage Increases -Retroactive . . . .	39	214
Wage Progression - COLA Fold-In . .	40	215
Special Adj. - Class 0242 		4 I	216
Vll
Letter
Subject	No.
TRAINING
Tuition	Refund................... 42
CAW	Leadership Training Program 43
RELATED TO BENEFITS PLANS OR SIMILAR ENTITLEMENTS AND PROGRAMS
Alcoholism and Drug Abuse .	.	44
Child	Care..................... 45
Correction Services
- Temp. Absence Program ....	46
Employee Counselling Program. .	47
Employee - Retiree New Vehicle
Purchase Program................... 48
Chrysler Product Programs ....	49
PAYCHEQUES
Unclaimed Paycheques ....	50
Paycheques of Absentees ....	51
Short Pay Due to Company Error ...	52
Early Paycheques	53
Thursday Paycheque Distribution . .	54
Advance Christmas Pay	55
Direct Deposit Payroll System ...	56
EMPLOYMENT CONSIDERATIONS
New Elire Orientation ...	57
JOINT COMMITTEES
National Equal Application
Committee .	.	.	.58
Quality of Work Life................. 59
National Task Force - Work Assign. Struct, and Pay Syst. . .	60
Training Committee ....	61
Employee Participation Activities ...	62
Affirmative Action Committees . .	63
Affirmative Action- Programs .	64
Joint National Environmental
Committee...........................65
Page
217
219
221
223
224
225
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
239
242
244
247
249
250 254
257
Vlll
Subject
SOURCING AND JOE1 SECURITY
Annual Meeting ....
Content.........................
New Technology..................
Grand Marais Road Building . . . Alternative Work Schedules Alternatives to Current Operating
Standards and Agreements . . . Sourcing Decisions .	.	.	.	.	.
Understanding Re Perm.
Job Losses .	.	.	.
Restruct. - Job & Income Prot. . . Skilled Trades - Perm. Job Losses . Vendor Support	.	.	.	.	.
Quality Initiatives .	.	.	.
Employee - Basic Responsibilities , ,
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Journeyman/Woman Safety Training Apprentice Health and Safety
Training .	.	.	.	.	.	.
Committeeperson Safety Training Stewards Safety Training . , . . . Add. Stewards’ Safety Training . . . Alt. Health and Safety Reps.
- Training ,	.	.	.	.
New Employee Health
and Safety Training .............
Periodic Safety Talks..............
CPR & First Aid Training .... Protective Clothing .	.	.	.
Safety Glasses .... Safety Shoes .	.	.	.	.	.	.	.
Chemical Hazard Training Hands Out of Point of Operation . Health and Safety - Working Alone Lockout/Tagout Program.............
Letter
No.	Page
66	259
67	260
68	262
69	263
70	264
71	265
72	266
73	267
74	269
75	277
76	278
77	280
78	281
79	283
80	284
81	285
82	286
83	287
84	288
85	289
86	290
87	291
88	292
89	293
90	294
91	295
92	296
93	297
94	298
ix
Subject
New, Rebuilt or Relocated Equipment .
Ergonomics..............,.............
Heat..................................
Heat Stress Index.....................
Medical Surveillance Programs.........
Review of Medical Dept. Programs . . Confidential Medical Information . . Infectious/Communicable Diseases . . Liquid and Air Supply Systems . . . .
Noise Abatement Program ..............
Chemical Informalion .................
Chemical Data Link CCOHS . , . . Records of Breathing Zone Exposure .
Canadian Elealth Research.............
Preventive Maintenance ...............
Elealth and Safety - Use of Camera . . Contact Procedure of Health and Safety Rep. for Work Refusal . , , . , Notification of Fatalities .........
Official Safety Complaint Form . . . , ■ Minute of Silence .......
Lift Truck/Vertalil't
Driver Trng.......................
Janitors/Booth Cleaners ..,.,,, Aids Training .	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.
Joint Elealth & Safety
Cttees. -Duties & Resp............
Joint Statement on
Health & Safety Work Refusals . . Susbstance Abuse/Drug Test .	.	.
SUPPLEMENTS ■ SKILLED TRADES AND APPRENTICES
Inverse Seniority - Long
Term Layoffs .....................
Notification -Tooling Outsourcing . .
Letter
No.
95
96
97
98
99 100 101 102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
Page
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
311
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
328
329
X
Letter
Subject	No.
MISCELLANEOUS
Social Justice Fund.............. 123
INDEX OF UNITS
1.	Windsor Assembly — Local 444
2.	Grand Marais Road Building — Local 444
3.	Ajax Trim,— Local 1090_
4.	Etobicoke Casting — Local 1459
5.	Pillette Road Truck Assembly -Local 444
6.	Brampton Assembly -Local 1285
7.	Bramalea Assembly — Local 1285
Page
330
xi
Agreement Entered Into on This Twenty-Fifth Day of October, 1990
Between Chrysler Canada Ltd.
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and the following Local Unions
National Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada)
444
1285
1459
and the National Automobile,
Aerospace and Agricultural Implement
Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada)
(The said Local Unions and the National Union being hereinafter referred to collectively as the “Union,“)
(Note: The headings used in this Agreement and exhibits neither add to nor subtract from the meaning but are for reference only.)
PURPOSE AND INTENT
The general purpose of this Agreement is to set forth terms and conditions of employment, and to promote orderly and peaceful labour relations for the mutual interest of the Corporation, the employees and the Union.
The parties recognize that the success of the Corporation and the job security of the employees depends upon the Corporation’s success in building a quality product and its ability to sell such product.
To these ends the Corporation and the Union encourage to the fullest degree friendly and cooperative relations between their respective representatives at all levels and among all employees.
RECOGNITION
(1)	Employees Covered
(a)	— Pursuant to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act, as amended, Chrysler Canada Ltd., herein called the Corporation does hereby recognize the Union as the exclusive representative for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for the term of this Agreement of all employees of the Corporation included in the bargaining units described in Schedule “A” appended to this Agreement.
(b)	— This Agreement shall extend automatically to production and maintenance employees at any new plant the Corporation builds that the parties shall agree, or, in the absence of agreement, that the Ontario Labour Relations Board shall determine, constitutes an accretion to the multiple-plant bargaining unit this Agreement covers, excluding such employees as the parties agree or the Board decides should be excluded.
(c)	-If the Union becomes the representative of employees at a plant that is not a part of such unit, the parties shall determine by negotiation whether this Agreement shall apply, in whole or in part, to such employees.
(2)	Management Rights
The Corporation has the exclusive right to manage its plants and offices and direct its affairs and working forces, except as limited by the terms of this Agreement and any Memorandums, Letter Agreements or Supplementary Agreements that by their terms modify this Agreement.
3
(3)	Excluded Personnel
The Union will not represent anyone in a supervisory capacity or other representatives of management.
(4)	Equal Application of Agreement
The Corporation and the Union, in their respective fields, have been leaders in adopting and effectuating policies against discrimination because of race, colour, religion, age, sex, national origin, or handicap. The terms and conditions of agreements between the Corporation and the Union always have applied equally to all employees, regardless of such considerations,
\	In order to assure full knowledge and understanding of the
' foregoing principle on the part of employees and all agents and representatives of the Corporation and the Union, the parties hereby incorporate the same in this Agreement. Any employee who claims that, in violation of said principle, said employee has been denied rights guaranteed by this Agreement may complain as provided in the grievance procedure. Any such claim, when presented in writing, pursuant to Step 1 (d) of the grievance procedure, must contain a full statement of the facts giving rise to the claim and the reasons why the employee believes the employee has been discriminated against. If appealed to Step 2, the Plant Shop Committee of the Local Union, before deciding whether to take the grievance up with a Plant Labour Relations Representative or the employee’s designated representative, may refer the claim to the Chairperson of the Fair Employment Practices Committee of the Local Union for a factual investigation and report. The Member of the Fair Employment Practices Committee designated by the Chairperson to investigate the claim shall not receive pay from the Corporation for time spent on such activity.
The grievance and arbitration procedure shall be the exclusive contractual procedure for remedying such claims.
4
NO STRIKE, OR LOCKOUT
(5)	Strikes and Lockouts Prohibited
(a)	The Union will not cause or permit its members to cause, nor will any member of the Union take part in any sitdown, stay-in, or slow-down in any plant of the Corporation or any curtailment of work or restriction of or interference with production of the Corporation. The Union will not cause or permit its members to cause nor will any member of the Union take part in any strike or stoppage of any of the Corporation’s operations or picket any of the Corporation’s plants or premises until all of the grievance procedure outlined herein has been exhausted and not even then unless authorized by the National Executive Board of the CAW and a copy of such authorization has been delivered to the Corporation. In case a strike shall occur this Agreement at the option of the Corporation shall terminate immediately. The Corporation reserves the right to discharge any employee who violates any provision of this Section. Such discharged employee shall have recourse to the grievance procedure. The Corporation will not cause or sanction a lock-out until all of the grievance procedure outlined herein has been exhausted.
(b)	In the event of the occurrence of a dispute between the Corporation and employees, the Union agrees that it will at all times during the currency of this Agreement take such steps as may be necessary to ensure that employees employed in the power-house and any substation of the Corporation shall be permitted free and unobstructed entrance into and exit from the premises and plants of the Corporation in order that such employ.. ees may at all times be enabled to perform the regular duties therein to which they are assigned.
(c)	In the event of the occurrence of a dispute between the Corporation and employees, the Union agrees that it will cooperate with the Corporation to ensure that employees required for emergency maintenance repairs to the Corporation’s plants will be pennitted free and unobstructed entrance into and exit from
such plants and that the Corporation’s plant protection staff, plant supervision, office staff and personnel and members of the public shall be allowed free and unobstructed entrance into and exit from the Corporation’s premises and offices, Provided that if at any time during such dispute the Corporation attempts to put any new employees to work in the Corporation’s plants on operations therein performed by employees in the bargaining unit or attempts to employ in such work any members of the plant protection staff or attempts to employ the employees required for such repairs in work other than such repairs, thereupon the Union no longer shall be bound by the provisions of this paragraph.
UNION SECURITY
((>) Requirement of Union Membership
(a)	— Employees covered by this Agreement at the time it becomes effective and who are members of the Union at that time shall be required as a condition of continued employment to continue membership in the Union for the duration of this agreement.
(b)	— Employees covered by this Agreement who are not members of the Union at the time it becomes effective shall be required as a condition of continued employment to become members of the Union for the duration of this Agreement, on or before the fortieth (40tb) day following such effective date.
(c)	— Employees hired, rehired, reinstated or transferred into a bargaining unit after the effective date of this Agreement and covered by this Agreement shall be required as a condition of continued employment to become members of the Union for the duration of this Agreement, on or before the fortieth (40th) day following the beginning of their employment in the unit.
(d)	— An employee who shall tender an initiation fee (if not already a member) and the periodic dues uniformly required as a
6
condition of acquiring or retaining membership shall be deemed to meet the conditions of this section.
(e)	— Employees shall be deemed to be members of the Union within the meaning of this section if they are members and are not more than thirty (30) days in arrears in payment of membership dues.
(I)	Check-Off
(a)	-The Corporation will deduct the Union initiation fee from the pay of an employee hired, rehired, reinstated or transferred into the bargaining unit after the effective date of this Agreement. The initiation fee shall not exceed the maximum prescribed by the Constitution of the National Union at the time of the employee’s hire, rehire, reinstatement or transfer.
(b)	— Check-off of Union dues will be compulsory for all employees who come within the unit to which the Agreement applies. It shall continue during the period of the Agreement. The amount to be deducted shall be such sum as may from time to time be assessed by the Union on its members according to its Constitution.
(8)	Deductions
(a)	— Deductions shall be made only in the conditions and circumstances relating to the payment of dues laid down by the Constitution and By-laws of the Union, together with the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding (Union Dues Deductions), a supplement to this Agreement.
(b)	■— The deduction on the records of the Corporation shall constitute the sums so deducted as money held by the Corporation in trust for the Local.
(9)	Indemnification
The Union shall indemnify and hold harmless the Corporation against any and all liability which may arise by reason of the
deduction by the Corporation of money as Union initiation fee and membership dues from employees’ wages, or by the Trustee of money as Union membership dues from employees’ Regular Benefits under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan.
REPRESENTATION (10) Number of Zones
(a)	--It is mutually agreed that the principle of proportional representation which reflects increases and decreases in the work force is a sound and sensible basis for implementing the representation sections of this Agreement.
(b)	— In each plant of the Corporation covered by the Production and Maintenance Agreement on September 22,1964, the ratio of Stewards to employees shall not exceed 1 to each 225 and the number of Stewards shall be as set forth in the table below.
Number of Employees	Number of
On Active Roll	Stewards
1—337 338 — 563 564 — 789 790 — 1015 1016 - 1241 1242 - 1467 1468 - 1693 1694 - 1919 I 920 - 2 145 2146 - 2371 2372 - 2597 2598 - 2823 2824 - 3049 3050 — 3275 3276 - 3501 3502 — 3727
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
8
3728 — 3953	17
3954 — 4 179	18
4180 — 4405	19
4406 — 4631	20
4632 — 4857	21
(c) — In each new plant of the Corporation to which the Production and Maintenance Agreement was extended after September 22, 1964, the ratio of Stewards to employees shall not exceed 1 to each 250 and the number of Stewards shall be as set forth in the table below:
Number of Employees On Active Roll
Number of Stewards
1 - 375 376 — 626 627 — 877 878 -- 1128 1129 — 1379 1380— 1630 1631 — 1881 1882 — 2132 2133 — 2383 2384 — 2634 2635 - 2885 2886 — 3136 3137 — 3387 3388 - 3638 3639 - 3889 3890 — 4140 4141 —4391 4392 - 4642 4643 - 4893 4894 - 5 144
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
(d) — In plants in which the ratio of Stewards to employees exceed the number allowable under Sub-section (b) the number
9
of Stewards will be increased or decreased in the manner set forth in Sub-section (h), provided however; (i) If the number of employees has decreased, the number of Stewards will be reduced according to the ratio, or major fraction thereof, previously determined in accordance with Sub-section (h) (i) so that the ratio of Stewards to employees after the adjustment does not exceed the ratio previously determined; and (ii) ifthe number of employees has increased, the number of Stewards will be increased at a ratio of one Steward for each 225 additional employees, or major fraction thereof. In no event, however, shall Stewards be added beyond the number of Stewards active on September 22, 1964 until the ratio in the plant conforms with Sub-section (b).
(e)	— Any Steward who dies, retires, resigns as a Steward or employee (excluding resignations as a Steward to accept a salaried position with the Corporation), will not be replaced unless and until the ratio of Stewards to employees in that plant conforms with Subsection (b).
(f)	-Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsections (b) (c) & (d) above, the number of Stewards in plants that are entitled to less than three Stewards according to the appropriate table shall be the larger of the following: (i) the number set forth in the appropriate table, or (ii) a number equal to the number of shifts operating in the plant.
(g)	-Each Steward shall be assigned to a zone. The departments or parts thereof which will constitute zones in a plant will be determined by mutual agreement between the Plant Management and the Local Union. When a zone consists of more than one department such departments will be physically located adjacent to one another insofar as reasonably practicable.
(h)	— Redistricting shall be accomplished in the following manner and at the following times: (i) within five (5) working days after the end of the month of April, August and December, the Local Union will be provided with the average number of employees on the active roll in the plant during each such month.
10
This number shall be the basis on which the appropriate number of zones shall be determined; (ii) adjustments, if any, in the number of zones shall be effective with the first pay period in the month following the month (i.e., June, October, February) in which the number of zones is determined in accordance with (i) above. The rezoning and the determination of the Union representatives shall be accomplished prior to the adjustment date.
(i)	-The plant may be rezoned in accordance with Subsection (g) above from time to time upon the written request of either the Plant Management or the Local Union. The parties in each plant may agree to establish a flexible zoning plan to pre-deter-mine the zones to be eliminated or added consistent with ratios at various employment levels of the plant.
(j)	— When unusual circumstances arise and such circumstances result in the number of employees on active roll at the plant that would require an increase or decrease of two (2) or more zones under the applicable table in Subsections (b) (c)or (d) and Subsections (f) and (g) the parties shall make adjustments in the zones concurrent with such changes in accordance with Subsections (b) (c) or(d) whichever is appropriate, and Subsections (f) and (g) of this Agreement. If the parties are unable to reach agreement, the matter shall immediately be referred to Corporate Staff Labour Relations and the National Union for resolution.
(k)	— When determining the on-roll employment level for representation purposes, apprentices will be included in the employment level count.
(11) Stewards
(a)	— In each zone, employees in the zone shall be represented by one Steward for each shift who shall be a regular employee having seniority and working in the zone.
(b)	— It is understood and agreed that each Steward has full time work to perform in the plant, It is understood and agreed that the Steward will not leave the zone during working hours. The
11
Supervisor will grant permission to the Steward to leave work for the purpose of presenting grievances. The Supervisor also will grant permission to the Steward to leave work if the Steward advises the Supervisor that a grievance or grievances have been referred to the Steward by one or more constituents which require investigation before the grievance or grievances can be properly presented. In such case, the Steward shall advise the Supervisoi of the number and nature of grievances the Steward wishes permission to investigate, and after investigating such grievances shall advise the Supervisor of those grievances the Steward disposed of and present the remaining grievances to the Supervisor.
(c)	— If the Steward goes into a department other than the one in which the Steward works to investigate grievances, the Steward will advise the Supervisor in that department of the Steward’s presence and the number and nature of the grievances the Steward wishes to investigate. After investigating them, the Steward shall advise the Supervisor or the designated representative of management, the number and nature of the grievances disposed of and present the remaining grievances.
(d)	—- If it is necessary fora Steward to speak to an employee about a grievance, the Steward will make arrangements with the employee’s Supervisor to do so.
(e)	— Stewards during their working hours, without loss of time or pay, may in accordance with the terms of this Section, perform their duties of conferring with Supervisors or other designated representatives of the plant management and of investigating grievances. The privilege of Stewards to leave their work during working hours without loss of pay is subject to the understanding that the time will be devoted to the prompt handling of legitimate grievances and will not be abused and that the Stewards will do the work to which they are assigned at all times except when necessary to leave their work to handle grievances as provided herein.
12
(f)	— During overtime periods or weekend work the Steward shall be scheduled to work as long as there is work scheduled in the Steward’s zone the Steward can do and any of the Steward’s respective constituents are working.
(12)	Plant Shop Committee persons
(a)	— The Plant Shop Committee of the Union shall consist of not more than six (6) members, one being the Chairperson, each of whom shall be an employee of the plant having seniority or a regular employee of the plant having seniority who is on leave of absence.
(b)	— It is understood and agreed that each member of the Plant Shop Committee of the Union who is a regular employee of the plant has work to perform in the plant, and will not leave work without first notifying the Supervisor concerned and shall report to said Supervisor upon return.
(c)	— Members of the Plant Shop Committee, by agreement between the Plant Management and the Plant Shop Committee, may have assigned to them certain districts in the plant and on proper occasions may go into those districts, but not into other districts of the plant assigned to other Plant Shop Com-mitteeperson.s.
(d.) — The Supervisor will grant permission to a Plant Shop Committeeperson to leave work for the purpose of attending regular or special conferences with the Plant Labour Relations Representative.
(e) — The Supervisor will also grant permission to Stewards to communicate by telephone on an unsettled grievance with the Plant Shop Committeepersonassigned to theirzones and also will grant permission to a Plant Shop Committeeperson (l) to leave work to confer on grievances with Stewards in the districts of the plant assigned to that Plant Shop Committeeperson when the Plant Shop Committeeperson has been requested to do so by the Steward, and (2) to present grievances to the Superintendent or
13
other management representative designated to receive them from the Plant Shop Committeeperson in the district. Plant Shop Committeepersons may perform their regular grievance procedure duties during working hours without loss of time or pay.
(f)	-During overtime periods or weekend work the Chairperson and the Plant Shop Committeeperson shall be scheduled to work as long as there is work scheduled in the Plant Chairperson’s district they can do and any of their respective constituents are working.
(g)	— On the effective date hereof the number of Plant Shop Committeepersons, including the Chaiipersori of the Plant Shop Committee in the plants shalt be as follows:
Number of Plant Shop
Plant	Committeepersons
Grand Marais Road Building	1
Windsor Assembly	6
Pillette Road Truck	4
Ajax Trim Plant	4
Etobicoke Casting Plant	4
In each plant the Plant Shop Committeepersons including the Chairperson of the Plant Shop Committee shall be assigned to the first shift and to districts in the plant as provided in Section
(12)	(c). Local practices regarding shift assignments of Committeepersons at Ajax Trim Plant and Etobicoke Casting Plant will be continued.
(13)	Abuse of the Procedure
(a)	— The Management in a plant may present to the Secretary of the Local Union as grievances any abuses of the grievance procedure by the Union, its vStewards, its Plant Shop Committeepersons, its Local Union officers, or other representatives or members of the Union, If the Management is dissatisfied with the disposition of the grievance made by the Local Union, it may take the grievance up with the National Union.
14
(b)	— The Union may present to the Labour Relations Supervisor in a plant as grievances any abuses of the grievance procedure by the Management or its representatives. An appeal in accordance with the grievance procedure may be taken by the Union if it is dissatisfied with the Labour Relations Supervisor’s decision.
(c)	— Such grievances by either the Plant Management or the Union shall be presented in writing.
(14)	Conduct of Union Representatives
Union representatives employed in the plant are subject to the same discipline as any other employee in the plant for violation of shop rules.
(15)	Fiegular Conferences
(a)	— Regular conferences shall take place between the Plant Shop Committee of the Union and the Labour Relations Supervisor of the plant on one day, Tuesday, of each week. An agenda of the matters to be taken up at the meeting shall be delivered to the Labour Relations Supervisor by the Plant Shop Committee on the Monday morning preceding the meeting.
(b)	— Members of the Plant Shop Committee of the Union shall receive pay from the Corporation at their regular hourly rates for time spent in such regular conferences. If the Labour Relations Supervisor agrees to a meeting or the continuation of a meeting during overtime hours, each member of the Plant Shop Committee shall receive pay from the Corporation at the appropriate overtime rate for the overtime each member spends in such meeting.
(c)	— The Plant Shop Committee may meet at a place designated by the management on company property For one-half (l/2) hour immediately preceding a meeting with the Labour Relations Supervisor, for which meeting an agenda has been filed with the Labour Relations Supervisor by the Plant Shop Committee.
15
(16)	Special Conferences
(a)	— Special conferences for important matters may be arranged between representatives of the Local Union and the Plant Labour Relations Representative, or the Plant Manager or the Plant Manager’s designated representative. The Union representatives at such special conferences shall be limited to members of the Plant Shop Committee and the five ranking Local Union officers. Upon request, the National President of the Union for the area in which the plant is located, or designated regular representative, may also attend. Arrangements for such special conferences shall be made in advance with the Plant Labour Relations Representative, or the Plant Manager or the Plant Manager’s designated representative, by the Chairperson of the Plant Shop Committee or the President of the Local Union, and an agenda of the matters to be taken up at the meeting shall be presented at the time the conference is requested. Matters taken up in special conferences shall be confined to those included in the agenda.
(b)	-Union representatives as specified in Subsection (a) above if working in the plant shall receive pay from the Corporation at their regular hourly rates for the time spent in such special conferences, provided they would otherwise have worked in the plant during the time spent in such conferences.
(c)	— Upon the request of the CAW President of the National Union, the Manager of Labour Relations of the Corporation will make arrangements for a representative of the National Union to attend such special conferences.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
(17)	'Time of Answers
‘The management will answer in writing any grievance presented to it in writing by the Union;
16
(a)	— by the Supervisor or other designated representative of management within five (5) working days,
(b)	— by the Plant Labour Relations Representative within seven (7) working days,
(c)	— by the Staff Labour Relations Representative or designated representative within seven (7) working days.
These time limits may be extended at any time by agreement between the Corporation and the Union.
(18)	Presenting a Grievance
A grievance of any employee or a joint grievance of any group of employees shall be presented to the management in the following manner:
(19)	Step 1
(a)	— The employee or one member of a group having a grievance may take the grievance up with the employee’s Supervisor, or may ask the Supervisor to send for the Steward without undue delay.
(b)	— The Steward then takes the grievance up with the Supervisor or other designated representative of the management in the zone.
(c)	-If the Steward and the Supervisor or other designated representative of management are unable to dispose of the grievance, the Steward then refers it to the Plant Shop Committeeper-son for that zone. The Plant Shop Committeeperson then takes the grievance up with the Superintendent or other designated management representative.
(d)	— If the grievance is not disposed of and the Steward wishes to pursue it further, the grievance may be reduced to writing and delivered to the Supervisor or other designated representative of management. (Any claim of discrimination when presented in writing, shall contain a full statement of the facts that
I 7
give rise to the claim and the specific reason or reasons why the employee believes discrimination has occurred.)
(e)	— If the grievance is not disposed of, the Plant Shop Committeeperson may take the written grievance up with the Superintendent or other designated management representative for the particular district.
(20)	Step 2
(a)	— If the Plant Shop Committeeperson and the Superintendent or other designated representative of management do not dispose of the grievance, then the Plant Shop Committeeperson refers the written grievance to the Plant Shop Committee.
(b)	— The Plant Shop Committee then delivers a written copy of the grievance to the Plant Labour Relations Representative and thereafter takes the grievance up with the Plant Labour Relations Representative at a scheduled meeting.
(21)	Step 3
(a)	— If the Plant Shop Committee and the Plant Labour Relations Representative are unable to dispose of the grievance, the Plant Shop Committee then refers the grievance to the proper higher officer or officers of the Local Union who may then take the grievance up with a representative of Staff Labour Relations and the Plant Labour Relations Representative after arranging a meeting. Upon request of the President of the Local Union the National President of the Union for the area in which the plant is located, or a regularly designated National Representative of the National President may attend the meeting. The Chairperson of the Plant Shop Committee may elect to attend the meeting.
(b)	— Officers of the Local Union working in the plant and the member of the Plant Shop Committee shall receive pay from the Corporation for time spent in such meetings. If Management agrees to a meeting or the continuation of a meeting during overtime hours, each officer and the member of the Plant Shop
I8
Committee shall receive pay from the Corporation at the appropriate overtime rate for the overtime spent in such meeting.
(c)	— The President of the Local or the designated representative may investigate any grievance appealed to this step of the grievance procedure and, if working in the plant, will receive pay at the regular hourly rate for time spent in such investigation.
(d)	— If a grievance involves the proper classification of employees or their working conditions, a representative of the National Union may enter the plant during regular working hours, after making properarrangements with the Manager Staff Labour Relations or the designated representative thereof, in order to inspect the operation involved in the grievance and to decide whether or not to appeal the grievance. A representative of the local plant management may accompany the Union’s representative.
(22)	Step 4 — National Review and Appeal to Appeal Board
(a) — Step 4 — National Review
If the officers of the Local Union and the Staff Labour Relations Representative and designated representative, are unable to dispose of the grievance, the officers of the Local Union then refer the grievance to the National Representative of the Union for the area in which the plant is located. The National Representative will review the grievance. If the grievance is one on which the Appeal Board has power and authority to rule. the National Representative may arrange a meeting with the Staff Labour Relations Representative and designated representative. to discuss the grievance. At the request of the National Representative, a Local Union Officer and the Local President’s designated representative may attend such meeting, Within ten (10) days of such meeting the Staff Labour Relations Representative or designated representative shall forward to the National Representative a statement of the parties'understanding as to the disposition, if any, of the grievance discussed. In any event, the National
19
Representative shall either dispose of the grievance or if the grievance merits appeal, refer it to the National Union which, if the grievance merits appeal, shall within forty-five (45) days of the appeal of the grievance to Step 4, refer the grievance to the Appeal Board.
For thepurpose of this Section, at the Ajax Trim Plant, Local 1090, and the Etobicoke Casting Plant, Local 1459, the President of the Local Union and the Chairperson of the Plant Shop Committee may attend the meeting at the request of the National Representative.
(b) — Appeal to Appeal Board
If the National Union refers the matter to the Appeal Board, it shall prepare a record which shall consist of the original written grievance prepared by the Steward and the written answers to the grievance and such other written records as there may be in connection with the matter and forward the same to the Manager of Staff Labour Relations of the Corporation, together with a notice that the answer of the representative with respect to that grievance is not satisfactory to the Union.The matter, if within the power and authority of the Appeal Board as provided in Section (24), may then be submitted to the Appeal Board for final disposition, such disposition to be made within thirty (30) days of the submission.
(23)	Membership of the Appeal Board
(a)	-The Appeal Board shall consist of one but not more than two Labour Relations executives of the Corporation and one but not more than two official representatives of the National Union, and an Impartial Chairperson. The Union and Corporation representatives of the Appeal Board shall attempt to settle all grievances properly referred to the Board.
(b)	— In the event that they are unable to settle the matter, it shall be determined by decision of the Impartial Chairperson and not by majority vote of the Board. The Impartial Chairperson
20
shall have the right, however, to participate In all discussions and
meetings of the Appeal Board and shall also have the duty of assisting the parties in resolving particular questions.
(c)	— ‘The Impartial Chairperson shall have only the functions set forth herein and shall serve for one year from date of appointment provided said Impartial Chairperson continues to be acceptable to both the Union and the Corporation. The fees and approved expenses of the Impartial Chairperson will be paid one-half by the Corporation and one-half by the Union.
(24)	Authority of Appeal Board
The power and authority of the Appeal Board shall be limited to:
(a)	— matters involving the correctness of the classification of employees, provided that the absence of a classification from the list of classifications authorized for use at a particular plant by the Corporation shall not preclude the application of that classification at that plant, provided the requested classification is an established hourly classification under this Agreement and provided further the application of the requested classification is proper, based upon the work performed; and
(b)	— applying and interpreting the provisions of the Agreement including written memorandum and letters of understanding between the Corporation and the National Union that relate to and supplement the terms of this Agreement except as may otherwise appear in said Agreements.
(c)	— in proper cases, modifying penalties assessed by the Management in disciplinary discharges and layoffs.
(d)	— grievances submitted charging a violation of the Corporation’s express commitments set forth in Section (55) of the Agreement or Section (II) (a). Section (t 2) or Section (14) of the Supplemental Agreement --Special Provisions Pertaining to Skilled Trades Employees. The Appeal Board may not determine that any Plant Management decision regarding the letting
21
of a contract for maintenance or construction work or for the in-plant fabrication of tools, dies, jigs, and fixtures or any Plant Management decision to buy tools, dies, or models rather than make them violated the express provisions of Section (55) of the Agreement or Section (11) (a), Section (12) or Section (14) of the Supplemental Agreement — Special Provisions Pertaining to Skilled Trades Employees, unless:
1.	the Appeal Eioard finds that the decision complained of has resulted, or will result, directly in the layoff of joumey-men/women or temporary employees in the affected classifications at the plant on layoff, and 2 unless the Appeal Board finds that, in making the disputed decision to contract out the work involved or to buy rather than make, Plant Management did not exercise proper judgment on the basis of the information available at the time the decision was made based on all the considerations set forth in Section (13) of the Supplemental Agreement -- Special Provisions Pertaining to Skilled Trades Employees and those set forth in Section (55), Section (11) (a), Section (12) and Section (14), referred to above as the case may be. If on the basis of the evidence presented the Appeal Board finds that the management decision complained of did not violate the provisions of said Section (55), Section (11) (a), Section (12) or Section (14), such determination shall resolve the grievance. If, however, the Appeal Board finds that the Management decision violated any such provision, the Appeal Board shall have authority to issue an award in which the sole remedy shall be limited to providing relief to journeymen/women and temporary employees in the affected skilled trades classifications at the affected plant who either were laid off directly as a result of the Management decision complained of or who were on layoff from the affected skilled trades classifications at the affected plant when Management made the decision complained of.
The Appeal Board shall not have authority to add to or subtract from or to modify any of the terms of the Agreement or to establish or change any wage or rate of pay.
22
Any case appealed to the Appeal Board on which it has no power to rule shall be referred back to the parties without decision.
(25)	Time of Appeals
(a)	— Hereafter, a grievance not appealed from an answer at one step of the grievance procedure to the next step of the grievance procedure, shall be considered settled on the basis of the last answer and not subject to further review but shall not prejudice the position of either party with respect to a grievance involving the same issue at another plant. Time limits for appeal shall be as follows:
1.	Appeal from an answer given in either Step 1 or 2 of the grievance procedure must be made within five (5) working days after such answer;
2.	Appeal from an answer given in Step 3 of the grievance procedure must be made within fifteen (15) working days after such an answer;
3.	Appeal to the Appeal Board must be made within forty-five (45) days from date of appeal to Step 4.
(b)	— A grievance may be withdrawn without prejudice, and, if so withdrawn, all financial liabilities shall be cancelled. If the grievance is reinstated, the financial liability shall date only from the date of reinstatement. If the grievance is not reinstated within three months from the date of withdrawal, the grievance shall not be reinstated. Where one or more grievances involve a similar issue, those grievances may be withdrawn without prejudice pending the disposition of the appeal of a representative case. In such event the withdrawal without prejudice will not affect financial liability.
(26)	Time Limit on Claims
(a) — No claims, including claims for back wages, by an employee covered by this Agreement, or by the Union, against
23
the Corporation shall be valid for a period prior to the date the grievance was first filed in writing unless the circumstances of the case made it impossible for the employee, or for the Union as the case may be, to know that the employee, or the Union, had grounds for such a claim prior to that date, in which case the claim shall be limited retroactively to a period of thirty (30) days prior to the date the claim was first filed in writing.
(b) — Deductions from an employee’s wages to recover overpayments made in error will not be made unless the employee is notified in writing prior to the end of the month following the month in which the payment in question was made to the employee. The notice will specify the amount of the overpayment, and deductions to recover such overpayment shall not commence until the pay period following the pay period in which the notice of overpayment was given to the employee.
(27)	Payment of Back Pay Claims
If the Corporation fails to give an employee work to which the employee’s seniority entitles the employee, and a written notice of the employee’s claim is filed within ten (10) working days of the time the Corporation first failed to give the employee such work, the Corporation will reimburse the employee for the earnings lost through failure to give the employee such work.
(28)	Computation of Back Wages
No claim for back wages shall exceed the amount of wages the employee would otherwise have earned at the employee’s regular rate less:
(a) — any unemployment, compensation or supplemental unemployment benefit the employee may have received, in which case the Corporation will pay to the appropriate federal agency the amount of the unemployment compensation the employee received in order to restore the employee’s entitlements for unemployment compensation benefits, provided the employee authorizes such payment if authorization is required; also,
24
the employee’s entitlement forsupplemental unemployment benefit will be restored in accordance with the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan; and
(b) — compensation for personal services that the employee was not receiving when the employee last worked for the Corporation. However, wages for total hours worked each week in other employment in excess of the total number of hours the employee would have worked for the Corporation during each corresponding week of the period covered by the claim, shall not be deducted.
The Appeal Board shall have authority in its discretion to deduct such further amount as it may deem fair.
(29)	Retroactive Adjustments
No decision of an Appeal Board or of the Management in one case shall create a basis for retroactive adjustment in any other case.
(30)	Withdrawal of Cases
After a case on which an Appeal Board is empowered to rule hereunder has been referred to the Appeal Board, the case may not be withdrawn by either party except by mutual consent.
(31)	Finality of Decisions
There shall be no appeal from any Appeal Board’s decision. Each such decision shall be final and binding on the Union and its members, the employee or employees involved, and the Corporation. The Union will discourage any attempt of its members, and will not encourage or cooperate with any of its members in any appeal to any Court or Labour Board from a decision of an Appeal Board.
(32)	Appeal for Interpretation
Any issue involving the interpretation and/or the application of any term of this Agreement may be initiated by either party
25
directly with the other party. Upon failure of the parties to agree with respect to the correct interpretation or application of the Agreement to the issue, it may then be appealed directly to the Appeal Board as provided in Section (22).
(33)	Law Suits
Any grievance that either (a) is not processed or (b) is disposed of in accordance with this Grievance Procedure shall be considered settled, and such settlement shall be final and binding upon the Corporation, the employee or employees involved, the Union and its members.
Except with respect to the right to present an individual grievance as expressly set forth in Section (19) (a), the Union shall, in the redress of alleged violations by the Corporation of this Agreement or any local or other agreement supplementary hereto, be the exclusive representative of employees or groups of employees covered by this Agreement, and only the ‘Union shall have the right to assert and press against the Corporation in any judicial or adjudicatory proceeding any claim or action asserting a violation of the Agreement.
No employee or former employee shall have any right of action under this Agreement on the basis of or by reason of any claim that the Union or any Union officer or representative has acted or failed to act relative to presentation, prosecution or settlement of any grievance or other matter as to which the Union or any Union representative has authority or discretion to act or not to act under the terms of this Agreement.
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
(34)	Maintenance of Discipline
It is agreed that the maintenance of discipline is essential to the satisfactory operation of the plant.
26
(35)	Notice of Suspension, Disciplinary Layoff or Discharge
‘The plant management agrees promptly upon the suspension, disciplinary layoff or discharge of an employee including a probationary employee who has worked for the plant more than thirty (30) days to notify in writing the employee and the Steward or Plant Shop Committeeperson in the district of the suspension, disciplinary layoff or discharge, and the reason therefor. Such notice will be provided at a reasonable time where practicable prior to the end of the shift and will advise the employee that the employee has the right to request union representation.
If such an employee is absent from the plant at the time the action is taken, or where it was not practicable to provide written notice prior to leaving the plant, management will send to the employee’s last known address notice of suspension, disciplinary layoff or discharge and notice that the employee has the right to request representation.
(36)	Union Representation
The employee may ask to discuss the suspension, disciplinary layoff or discharge with either the Steward or Plant Shop Committeeperson for the district and the management will designate an office where the employee may do so before the employee is required to leave the plant. Upon request, the employee’s Supervisor or other designated representative of management will discuss the suspension, disciplinary layoff or discharge with the employee and the Steward or the Plant Shop Committeeperson. In proper cases, exceptions shall be made.
(37)	Appeal of Discharge
Should a discharged employee or the Union representative and the Plant Shop Committee consider the discharge to be improper, a complaint shall be presented in writing through the Shop Committee to the designated Labour Relations Representative within forty-eight (48) hours of the discharge. The Management
27
of the plant will review the discharge and give its answer within seventy-two (72) hours after receiving the complaint. The Management of each plant is authorized to settle such matters. If the decision is not satisfactory to the Union, the matter shall be referred to Step 2 of the grievance procedure within five (5) working days after the Management gives its answer to the Union.
(38) Use of Past Record
\	In imposing any discipline on a current charge, Management
1 j 'l will not take into account any prior infractions which occurred ' more than three (3) years previously nor impose discipline on an employee for falsification of the employee’s employment application after a period of eighteen (1 8) months from the employee’s date of hire.
WORK STANDARDS
(39) Work Standards
(a)	— Establishing Work Standards
1.	When the Corporation establishes work standards, by whatever method it may select, it shall do so on the basis of fairness and equity in that such standards shall be based on the reasonable working capacities of normal experienced employees working at a normal pace to produce quality work in the manner that the Company prescribes.
2.	When a work standard is established and is not disputed, or is disputed and settled, such standard shall remain unchanged and not subject to dispute unless and until the operation is changed as a result of change in method, layout, tools, equipment, materials or product design. When a change is made in a work standard for any of the above reasons, only the elements of the operations that are affected by such change will be adjusted.
28
The Corporation agrees it is desirable to establish work standards on a new operation as early as is feasible. Where a standard is not established, the Steward, upon request, will be given management’s reasons for not establishing the standard.
When a standard is not established, an employee, who is following the prescribed method and using the tools provided in the proper manner and performing at a normal pace, will not be disciplined for failure to obtain an expected amount of production.
When imposing discipline for failure to follow a prescribed method or for failure to use the tools provided in a proper manner, an employee will be informed in writing in what respect the employee failed to follow the method or use the tools. Upon request, the Steward will also be given the reason.
3.	When a work study is to be made for the purpose of establishing a standard, advance notice will be given to anj normal experienced employee to be studied and to the employee’s Steward. When a work standard is established, notice will be given to the employee and to said Steward advising them of the established work standard. When a study is made for purposes other than establishing a standard, the purpose of the study will be made known to a Union representative if so requested.
4.	Circumstances affecting the time of performance of a particular job that were not taken into account in establishing a work standard are known as non-standard conditions. When such non-standard conditions exist and are brought to the attention of management, the employee concerned shall be advised of the rate of production at which said employee will be required to perform the job under such non-standard conditions.
(b)	— Relief Time and Other Allowances
1.	All employees on a regular eight-hour shift shall have a relief period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate twelve (12) minutes before lunch and twelve (12) minutes after lunch. Such
29
relief periods represent five per cent of the shift time or three (3) minutes per hour. The amount of such relief time shall be modified accordingly for a shift other than a regular eight-hour shift. This shall not be deemed to affect the environmental relief allowance now included in the work standard of certain operations nor the allowance applicable to certain other operations as expressly set forth in letters from the Corporation to the Union.
Such relief time, except in emergencies, shall not be provided during the first hour of the shift or the first hour after the lunch period, or during such other periods, not exceeding in the aggregate two (2) hours per shift, as may be mutually satisfactory in the local plants.
2.	When a time study is made, the employee’s performance will be rated as to normal at the time such study is made. In addition to the regular relief allowance, allowances will be made for such elements as standard tool changes, material handling, and fatigue where these are a factor,
(c)	— Special Provisions Regarding Breakdowns, Ratio of Body Types, and Controlling Operations.
1.	An employee will not be required to make up a loss in production on the employee’s operation solely as a result of machine or equipment breakdown or shortage of stock or other conditions if the condition is beyond the employee’s control, but the employee may be directed while the condition exists, to perform other work or, if the condition exists during a period when the employee may be required to do so, to take regular relief time.
2.	Work assignments on conveyor lines will be made in accordance with line speeds and available work space and the expected normal ratio of body types, optional equipment or other product types. When it is necessary to adjust the normal scheduled ratio of body types including optional equipment or other product types on conveyor lines and more or less work is required because of the change in mix, compensating adjustments in work
30
assignment, manpower, spacing of units, line speed or any combination thereof will be made. Arrangements will be made locally to establish procedures which will provide advance knowledge of mix changes that require compensating adjustments so that such adjustments will be made in a timely manner. On conveyoi line operations, management will designate specific off-line operations from which employees will be made available to compensate for such mix changes when one of the compensating adjustments selected is an increase in employees. The compensating adjustments will be made known to the affected employee in the employee’s ordinary work area in time to accommodate the mix change. Upon request, Management will advise the Union of the arrangements made. If the time required to perform the elements of work assigned to an employee does not equal the available time of the employee’s work station, additional elements of work may be assigned to the employee, not to exceed the available time of the employee’s work station. If work assignments on such lines are changed, the Supervisor will advise the employee what elements have been added to or removed from the operation.
3.	On some press, machine or conveyor lines the operations are limited by the controlling operation on the line with the result that on such lines either the time required to perform the elements of work assigned to an employee is less than the employee’s available time or the rate of production required of an employee is less than standard. In such circumstances the employee will be advised of the standard and available time for the operation whether or not the employee is required to produce to the standard. When the work standard on the controlling operation is adjusted, the other operations that were so limited will be adjusted accordingly within their standards.
(d)	— Dispute Procedure
1. If an employee or group of employees believes that any paragraph or paragraphs of this Work Standards Section has been violated, and the employee (or they) is aggrieved as the result
31
thereof, the employee, or a designated member of the group, may take the matter up with the Supervisor, or ask the Supervisor to send for their Steward. On request the Supervisor will obtain for the Steward in writing an elemental breakdown of the operation in question. Such elemental breakdown shall consist of all the elements of the operation in the order of their performance with the time for each element and the total time for the operation as these appear on the study or supporting data. On conveyor assembly lines each elemental breakdown will reflect the scheduled rate of production and available time, either by the hour or the day as requested.
The best efforts of the employee, the Supervisor concerned and the Steward shall be directed toward settling the matter. Among other things, it shall be determined that the employee’s work method, the job layout, the tools and equipment are those on which the standard is based. Machine cycle times, feeds and speeds, stock locations and line speed are among other items that should be checked to determine that these are as contemplated in the standard.
By receiving the elemental breakdown and other information regarding an operation, the Union will not thereby waive its right later to dispute the time values of the elements of the operation.
2. (i) If after the above procedure is followed the matter is not resolved, a written grievance may be filed with the Supervisor, signed by the aggrieved employee or aggrieved employees. The Supervisor shall reply to the grievance within two (2) regular working days. If the grievance is not disposed of, it may within two (2) regular working days of the Supervisor’s reply be appealed by the Chairperson of the Plant Shop Committee to the next step by giving written notice to the Labour Relations Department.
(ii) Following receipt of the Supervisor’s reply and prior to the special meeting held pursuant to Paragraph 3 below, the Local
32
Union Time Study Person will be permitted to make a study of
the job in dispute. This study shall not be deemed to be in substitution for the National Union Industrial Engineer giving technical assistance as provided in Paragraph 3 below.
(iii) The Local Union Time Study Person shall be an employee having seniority in a plant of the Corporation, who is trained and qualified by the National Union as a Time Study Person. The Union may designate in writing to the Corporation from among seniority employees at work in the plant a permanent alternate Local Union Time Study Person who is trained and qualified by the Union as a Time Study Person to function when the Local Union Time Study Person is to be away from the plant for at least a full shift and plant management receives advance notification of such absence.
The Time Study Person, during regular working hours of the Time Study Person, may perform the duties as herein set forth subject to the provisions of Section (11) (b), (c), (d) and (e) and notwithstanding seniority status, shall in the event of a layoff be retained at work as long as there is a job scheduled in the plant in which the Time Study Person is employed which the Time Study Person is able to do and shall be recalled to work after a layoff as soon as there is a job in either the Windsor Assembly Plant or the Pillette Road Truck Assembly Plant the Time Study Person is able to do.
3.	Within five (5) regular working days of the receipt of the appeal to the Labour Relations Department, the grievance will be considered at a special step of the grievance procedure by three representatives of the Union, including the Steward, Plant Shop Committeeperson and Chairperson of the Plant Shop Committee and three representatives of management, at least one of whom shall be a member of higher supervision.
After the written grievance has been answered by the Supervisor, all of the data supporting the standard shall be made available to the appropriate Plant Shop Committeeperson or to
33
the National Union’s Industrial Engineer upon request, without undue delay.
If the Chairperson of the Plant Shop Committee so requests, the Corporation will make a new study of the operation promptly by the time study method, using a normal experienced operator on the job. The time limits for the meeting in this step of the procedure shall be extended by the time required to make the study and the study shall be made available to the participants in this step of the procedure. Also, should the National Union through the Labour Relations Department request an Industrial Engineer from the Corporation and an Industrial Engineer from the National Union to give their technical assistance in resolving the grievance the time limits for the holding of this meeting shall be extended by the time required. In this event, the Industrial Engineers shall give their prompt attention to the matter. In the presence of a Local Union representative or representatives they will compare and exchange their studies and computations without undue delay to determine the areas of difference, if any, in order to expedite resolving the grievance. The National Union and the Labour Relations Department will arrange for the participation of the Union’s Industrial Engineer.
The requirements of this procedure for the making available of elemental breakdowns, back-up data, for the taking of a new time study by the Corporation at the request of the Chairperson of the Plant Shop Committee, and for the participation of the Union’s Industrial Engineer shall apply only to grievances alleging that the aggrieved employee cannot perform the work required in the time allowed because the standard was not established in conformity with Section (39) (a) (1) hereof.
4.	Within two (2) regular working days of the special step meeting, higher supervision will give a written answer. If the grievance is not settled at this step, it may within five (5) regular working days from the date of the written answer be referred to the Special Arbitrator. The Special Arbitrator shall consider the
34
grievance and render a decision within two (2) weeks of receipt of such referral.
The Special Arbitrator shall be selected either by mutual agreement of the parties or, failing such agreement, by the Minister of Labour for Ontario. Payment of the Special Arbitrator’s fees and expenses shall be shared equally by the parties. The Special Arbitrator shall be a qualified industrial engineer.
5.	In considering a grievance so referred the Special Arbitrator shall have authority only to rule on whether any paragraph or paragraphs to this section have been violated, including Paragraph (a) 1, and on the correctness of any and all facts that are in dispute in the grievance. However, the Special Arbitrator shall not have authority to alter or establish a standard on any operation. The ruling of the Special Arbitrator shall be binding on both parties.
6.	The Union and the Corporation shall stipulate in advance of the hearing which matters are in dispute and the Special Arbitrator shall make a determination only with respect to those matters. The parties shall make available to the Special Arbitrator at the hearing any data pertinent to the operation which the Special Arbitrator may request, or which the parties may desire
to present.
7.	The Special Arbitrator shall observe the performance of the operation in dispute and when requested by either party the Special Arbitrator shall make a time study of the operation, using a normal exper ienced operator on the job. If the parties cannot agree on the normal experienced operator to be studied, the Special Arbitrator shall make the selection.
8.	In submitting a ruling, the Special Arbitrator shall also submit to both parties copies of all the facts of the study and computations thereto.
9.	If pursuant to the above the Special Arbitrator rules that Paragraph (a) I. has been violated, the Corporation will be obli-
35
gated to establish a new standard within two (2) regular working days following receipt of such ruling.
IO.	If the Union considers the new standard unsatisfactory, it may file a grievance concerning the standard and such grievance will be reviewed by the parties within two (2) regular working days. If the grievance is not resolved at this meeting, the Corporation will give its written reply to the grievance within two (2) regular working days thereafter.
Within two (2) regular working days after receipt of the written answer, the Union may appeal the grievance to the Special Arbitrator and in such event the Special Arbitrator will hold a hearing within one (I) week and review the action taken by the Corporation. The Special Arbitrator will not take an additional time study but shall determine within three (3) regular working days after the hearing whether the new standard is also in violation of Paragraph (a) 1.
1 I. The Arbitration procedure outlined herein shall be subject to the laws of the Province of Ontario and any regulations ot decisions thereunder having the force of law.
SENIORITY
' (40) Probationary Employees
(a)	— New employees of the plant shall be considered as probationary employees For the first ninety (90) days of theit employment except as provided in subsection (b) below. The ninety days’ probationary period shall be accumulated within not more than one (I ) year. After employees have finished the probationary period, they shall be entered on the seniority list of tlieii department or division and shall rank for seniority From the day ninety (90) days prior to the day they completed the probationary period.
(b)	— There shall be no seniority among probationary employees.
36
(c)	— The Union shall represent probationary employee!; for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and otherconditions of employment as set forth in Section (I) of this Agreement, but the Union shall not represent probationary employees who have been laid off 01 discharged and who have worked for the plant less than thirty-one (3 1) days since the date of their last hiring except in case the layoff or discharge is for discrimination for Union activities. The Union may represent probationary employees who have worked at the plant more than thirty (30) days, however, any claim made by a probationary employee after 30 days of employment that a layoff or discharge is not for cause, or discriminatory under Sec. (4), may be taken tip as a grievance; provided, however, that the employee shall be deemed to have continued to be on probation, and therefore the Corporation shall not be held to the same standards as in the case of seniority employees.The Appeal Board shall have jurisdiction over such cases. A probationary employee who is discharged and later reinstated shall not be deemed to have served any part of the probationary period between the date of the probationary employee’s discharge and the probationary employee’s reinstatement.
(41)	Seniority Lists
(a)	— Employees’ names shall appear on the relevant seniority lists (by classification, department and plant) in the ordei of their respective date of hiring or in the case of an employee placed on the seniority lists after ninety (90) calendar days' intermittent employment within any period of twelve (12) consecutive months, in the order of the date ninety (90) calendar days prior to the employee attaining seniority.
(b)	— Seniority lists for each department shall be maintained at all times by the Corporation and shall be made available to Stewards and Plant Shop Commitlcepcrsons for inspection to the extent reasonably necessary for any Steward or Plant Shop
37
Committeeperson to ascertain the seniority status of an employee within said jurisdiction.
(c)	— The Corporation shall post revised seniority lists as required for each department each three months and copies of same shall be supplied to each Plant Shop Committeeperson. The lists so supplied shall include the names of seniority employees then on layoff.
Plant seniority lists shall be compiled each six (6) months and shall be supplied to the respective Chairperson of the Plant Shop Committees.
(42)	Loss of Seniority
(a)	— An employee shall lose seniority for the following reasons only:
1.	The employee quits.
2.	The employee is discharged and the discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure.
3.	If the employee is absent for five (5) regular working days without advising the Corporation’s Employment Department giving satisfactory reasons.
4.	If the employee fails to return to work within five (5) regular working days after notification so to do to the employee’s address on record with the Corporation unless the employee furnishes satisfactory reasons for such failure.
5.	If the employee is not called upon to perform work foi the Corporation for a period of sixty (60) consecutive monthsior for a period equal to the employee’s seniority at the date when the employee last performed work for the Corporation, whichever shall be the greater.
6.	If the employee receives a permanent total disability benefit under a group life insurance policy held by the Corporation. If such employee recovers and either (a) the employee’s
38
permanent total disability benefit is discontinued or (b) the employee’s permanent total disability benefit has been fully paid, the employee’s seniority, including that which the employee otherwise would have acquired during the period of said disability, shall be restored, Provided, however, if the period of the employee’s disability was for a period longer than the seniority the employee had on the date the employee was approved for a permanent total disability benefit the employee shall upon the restoration of seniority as provided above be given seniority equal to the amount of the seniority the employee had on the date such permanent total disability benefit was approved. However. as to an employee who received such benefit prior to the date of this Agreement, the employee’s seniority will continue to accumulate and, should the employee recover, the employee’s total accumulated seniority will be credited.
7.	The employee retires or receives a pension under the Pension Plan of this Agreement. If the employee receives a pension for permanent total disability and recovers and the pension is discontinued, the employee’s seniority including that which the employee otherwise would have acquired during the period of disability, shall be restored, provided, however, if the period of the employee’s disability retirement was for a period longer than the seniority the employee had on the date said pension for permanent total disability began, the employee shall, upon the discontinuance of permanent total disability pension, be given seniority equal to the amount of seniority the employee had on the date such pension began.
8.	The employee accepts a Separation Payment under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan incorporated in this Agreement in which event the employee's seniority shall be broken at any and all plants and locations of the Corporation as of the date the employee’s application for the Separation Payment was received by the Corporation.
(b)	— In the event an employee loses seniority under Section (42) as a result of imprisonment For up to one hundred and eighty
39
(180) days in connection with an offence arising out of the operation of a motor vehicle, the employee’s incarceration shall be considered a proper exception under the provisions governing loss of seniority and the employee’s seniority shall be reinstated.
(43)	Exceptions to Seniority and Job Opportunity Provisions — Disabled Employees
In the event of an employee suffering a disability which would prevent the employee from carrying out normal duties the Corporation and the Union may make exceptions to the seniority j - I and job opportunity provisions of this Agreement in favour of such employee. When exceptions are made pursuant to this Section involving an employee that is recognized by the Corporation and the Union to be an unusual placement problem, the parties may further agree that such employee may not be displaced under the Layoff and Recall paragraphs of the applicable Plant Special Provisions or under Paragraph (21) of the Special Provisions Pertaining to Windsor Area Plants, nor may such employee exercise any job opportunity claim to any other job unless mutually agreed by the Corporation and the Union, However, if in the event of a layoff the seniority of the employee placed under this Section does not entitle the employee to remain at work, the employee shall be laid off accordingly and the employee shall be called back according to seniority provided the employee has the ability to satisfactorily perform the work to be done.
(44)	Reinstatement After Disability
(a)	— When an employee’s absence from work is due solely to disability resulting from sickness or injury and due proof of the disability is given to the plant the employee will be returned to work in accordance with seniority and these rules as nearly as may be as if the employee had not suffered disability, provided the employee passes the required medical examination. If the disposition made as the result of any such medical examination is not satisfactory, the employee may ask to discuss the matter at the plant with the Steward or Committeeperson, and Manage-
40
merit will so arrange it. If a grievance on the matter is submitted, it may be referred io Step 3 of the grievance procedure. The Local Union may then take the grievance up with the Plant Manager; or the designated representative. In proper cases, the parties may select an independent physician to resolve the conflicting medical findings of the employee’s personal physician and the plant physician with respect to determining the employee’s ability to perform the duties of the available work to which the employee would be entitled by seniority. The selection of an independent physician by the Plant Management and the Local Union will be made within seven (7) working days from the date the matter was referred to the Plant Manager or the Plant Manager’s designated representative. Costs will be paid by the Plant. If the report of the independent physician places work restrictions or limitations on the employee equal to or greater than those previously placed on the employee by the plant physician, there shall be no retroactive pay. If the report or decision, places work restrictions or limitations on the employee which are less than those previously placed on the employee by the plant physician, retroactive pay, if any, shall be limited to the period beginning two (2) weeks prior to the day of the final examination by the independent physician and shall be calculated as provided in Section (28).
The decision of the independent physician shall be final and binding on the Corporation, the employee involved and the Union.
(b)	— If an employee claims the employee is unable to perform the duties of the available work to which the employee would be entitled by seniority and Management disputes such claim, the issue shall be submitled lo an independent physician, provided consultation between the employee’s personal physician and the plant physician or physicians acting for the Corporation does not resolve the conflicting medical findings. The independent physician shall be selected by the Local Union and the Plant Management within seven (7) working days from the date the dispute arose. The employee shall submit to a physical
41
examination by the independent physician who shall submit a written report of medical findings and conclusions. Costs of such examination shall be paid by the Plant. The decision of the independent physician shall be final and binding on the Corporation, the employee involved and the Union.
(45)	Change of Address
Employees shall notify the Management of any change of address and a copy of the notification will be given the employee.
Within thirty (30) days after the ratification of this Agreement and every six months thereafter during the term of this Agreement, the Corporation shall give to the National Union and the respective Local Union the names of all employees covered by this Agreement together with their addresses as they then appear on the records of the Corporation. The National Union shall receive and retain such information in confidence and shall disclose it only to those officials of the Union whose duties require them to have such information.
Upon request of the Local Union to the Manager of Labour Relations and Safety, the Corporation shall give, not more than once in every quarter, current mailing labels of all retired, laid-off, and active employees covered by this Agreement.
(46)	Shift Preference
Provisions pertaining to shift preference shall be negotiated locally in the plants. Any such agreements must have sufficient flexibility to give full protection to efficiency of operations at all times.
(47)	Overtime Equalization Agreements
The Local Unions and Local Plant Managements may negotiate local agreements for the purpose of equalizing overtime hours or overtime opportunities in the same department and classification and on the same shift. The foregoing provision will
42
not interfere with any mutually satisfactory local practices now in effect that are inconsistent therewith.
(48)	Plant Memoranda of Understanding
(a)	— Provisions pertaining to matters which are peculiar to a plant because of its physical structure and facilities and, in respect to Ajax Trim Plant, Etobicoke Casting Plant, Brampton Assembly Plant, Bramalea Assembly Plant and Grand Marais Road Building only, matters concerning seniority and job opportunity which are in lieu ofprovisions in this Agreement expressly made inapplicable to any or all of the said plants, shall be negotiated locally in the plants and incorporated into a Plant Memorandum of Understanding.
(b)	— A Plant Memorandum of Understanding shall be governed by this Agreement, to which it is a .supplement.
(c)	— Plant Memoranda of Understanding shall continue in force concurrent with the term of this Agreement and any extension thereof.
LAYOFF AND RECALL
(49)	Layoff Definitions
The term “layoff” when used in this Agreement means a reduction in the working force and includes the following definitions:
(a)	— Temporary Layoff
A temporary layoff means a reduction in the working force for a definite period of time for any reason not set forth in Subsections (c) and (d) below.
(b)	— indefinite Layoff
An indefinite layoff means a reduction in the working force for an unknown or indefinite duration for any reason not set forth in Subsections (c) and (d) below.
(c)	-Temporary Adjustment
43
A temporary adjustment means a reduction in the working force necessitated by unplanned occurrences which require partial or full curtailment ofoperations and over which Management has no control. Such occurrences are usually for a limited duration and are caused for example by parts or material shortages, machinery or equipment failures, temporary tooling or production difficulties. labour disputes, emergencies, or acts of God.
(d)	-- Model Change or Inventory Layoff
A model change or inventory layoff means a reduction in the working force for either or both of these reasons, the duration of which may or may not be known.
(50)	Notice of Layoff
(a)	--On request by the Union the Corporation will advise them of circumstances causing layoffs, type of layoff applicable, probable duration, and other relevant information.
(b)	-- When reasonably possible the Corporation will give twenty-four (24) hours’ notice of layoff to employees.
(51)	Recall
It is understood that the Corporation will endeavour to notify employees affected in accordance with seniority. Such notification shall be in accordance with past practice of the Corporation. It is further understood that any variation, not-exceeding two (2) days, in the time of giving of notice, shall be considered to be notice given in accordance with seniority.
TRANSFER AND PROMOTION
(52)	Transfer of Employees Between Plants
(a)	— An employee who is transferred by the Corporation from one plant to another plant of the Corporation shall rank foi seniority as of the employee’s date of entry in the other plant, except as provided in Section (53) referring to the transfer of operations or departments from one plant to another plant of the
44
Corporation. If the necessity to transfer arises from the the special skills or abilities of employees, the Corporation shall, prior to transferring employees, canvass the qualified employees in the department from which the transfer will be made and shall give preference to the senior qualified employee, if any, who volunteers for such assignment. An employee transferring pursuant hereto shall retain seniority in the plant from which transfer occured and shall be returned to the former plant when the employee’s services are no longer required at the new plant, at which time the employee's seniority at the new plant shall be terminated.
(b)	— If, for other reasons, an employee is transferred at the employee’s own request from one plant to another plant of the Corporation, the employee shall retain seniority in the plant from which the transfer occurred for a period of twelve (12) months from the date the employee last worked in the plant and shall rank for seniority as of the employee’s date of entry in the other plant.
(c)	-An employee transferring under this Section (52) shall retain any rights accrued for purposes of holiday pay, payment in lieu of vacations, pensions, insurance and the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan.
(53)	'Transfer of Operations Between Plants
(a)	— When operations or departments are transferred from one plant to another existing plant of the Corporation, employees on indefinite layoff as the result of the transfer, up to the number needed in the receiving plant to perform the transferred operations, may. if they so desire, be transferred to the other plant with their full seniority provided they are able to do the work. Employ.-ees indefinitely laid off within thirty (30) days of the completion of such a transfer or as a result of the transfer shall also be given the opportunity to transfer subject to the conditions contained herein.
When operations or departments are transferred from one plant.to a new plant, employees engaged on such operations or
/
need for
45
employed in such departments, up to the number needed in the receiving plant to perform the transferred operations, may, if they so desire, be transferred to the new plant and if the new plant is represented by the Union, with their full seniority.
(b)	— At the request of the National Union, the Corporation will negotiate the advisability of transferring employees in related service departments who are affected by the transfer up to the number needed in the receiving plant. Employees who elect to transfer and are transferred shall carry their full seniority to the new plant.
(c)	— If operations are concurrently transferred between two or more plants, the number of employees to be transferred from one plant shall be offset against the number to be transferred to that plant and only the difference, if any, shall be transferred as provided in (a) above and (b) above.
(£14) Discontinuance of Operations
When operations or departments are discontinued, employees affected will be given other work in the plant which they can do and without change of ranking for seniority.
Work will be made available in the following order:
(a)	-Open jobs.
(b)	— Jobs of probationary employees.
(c)	— Jobs of lesser seniority employees.
(155) Job Security and Outside Contracting
Employees of an outside contractor will not be utilized in a plant covered by this Agreement to replace seniority employees on production assembly or manufacturing work or fabrication of tools, dies, jigs and fixtures, normally and historically performed by them when perfonnance of such work involves the use of Corporation-owned machines, tools or equipment maintained by employees. y
46
The foregoing shall not affect the right of the Corporation to continue arrangements currently in effect; nor shall it limit the fulfillment of warranty obligations by vendors nor limit work which a vendor must perform to prove out equipment.
In all cases, except where time and circumstances prevent it, the plant management will hold advance discussion with local Union representatives prior to letting such a contract. In this discussion local management is expected to review its plans 01 prospects for letting a particular contract. The local Union should be advised of the nature, scope and approximate dates of the work to be performed and the reasons (equipment, manpower. etc.) why management is contemplating contracting out the work. At such times Cotporation representatives are expected to afford the Union an opportunity to comment on the Corporation’s plans and to give appropriate weight to those comments in the light of all attendant circumstances.
In no event shall any seniority employee who customarily performs the work in question be laid off as a direct and immediate result of work being performed by any outside contractor on the plant premises.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the notice provisions of Section (I 1) (a) of the Supplemental Agreement, Special Provisions Pertaining to Skilled Trades employees, shall apply when plant maintenance and construction work is let to outside contractors.
(56) Special Provisions Pertaining to Skilled Trades Employees
The provisions of this Agreement apply to employees in the skilled trades, except as specifically modified by the Special Provisions Pertaining to Skilled Trades Employees which is annexed hereto as a Supplement to this Agreement.
47
(57) Provisions Pertaining to Apprentices
The provisions of this Agreement apply to apprentices in the skilled trades, except as specifically modified by the Supplemental Agreement — Apprenticeship and Apprentice Standards, which is annexed hereto.
/
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
. - ( ', y'	^ C V s
(58) Leave for Good Cause .<-	, v- / ■■	(
' I
j (a) — Leaves of absence for reasonable periods not to exceed one (1) year will be granted without loss of seniority for good cause, such as personal illness or accident, death or serious illness in the immediate family, pregngncy, adoption, jury duty, military reserve training and elective or appointive public office, and such leaves may be extended for like cause.
(b) -A leave of absence may be granted for a period not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) days if required for the purpose of travelling to a foreign country.
1 j (c) — A leave of absence for a period not to exceed one (1) ■year without loss of seniority will be granted an employee with one (I) or more years of seniority in order to attend a recognized college, university or trade or technical school full time, provided thecourse of instruction is related to the employee’s employment opportunities with the Corporation. A request for a leave of absence to attend primary or high school will be regarded as being within the intent of this Subsection (c) and the schooling will be regarded as being related to the employee’s employment opportunities with the Corporation. Before receiving the leave, or an extension thereof, the employee shall submit to the Corporation satisfactory evidence that the college, university or school has accepted the employee as a student and, on the expiration of each semester or other school term, shall submit proof of attendance during such term. Such leaves may be extended for additional periods not to exceed one (1) year each.
48
(d)	— A leave of absence without loss of seniority for a period not to exceed one (I) year will be granted an employee who is elected or appointed to a full time position with a credit union chartered by a provincial or the federal government to service primarily Chrysler employees. Such a leave may be extended for additional periods not to exceed one (I) year each.
(e)	— It is understood that leaves of absence granted undei this Section (58) shall be granted only where the requirements of the plant permit and replacement employees are available.
(59) Leave for Union Business
(a) -An employee who is (i) appointed, selected or elected to work for a Local Union, or(ii) appointed orelected to a position on the Staff of the National Union, or (iii) appointed, selected, or elected by the Union to the Staff of the Canadian Labour Congress, or to the Staff of a Provincial, County, City or Regional C.L.C. Council, or Ontario Federation of Labour, shall at the written request of the Union receive temporary leaves of absence for periods not to exceed three (3) years or the term of office, whichever is shorter.
(b)	— An employee appointed to a position identified as one of a labour member of a government agency shall at the written request of the Union receive a leave of absence for a period of not more than three (3) years.
(c)	— A leave of absence may be granted an employee for other union activities upon the written request of the National Union to the Manager of Labour Relations of the Corporation.
(d)	— Upon return from any such leave of absence, the employee shall be re-employed at work generally similar to that which the employee did last prior to the leave of absence and with seniority accumulated throughout said leave of absence.
49
(60) Bereavement Pay
(a)	— When death occurs in the employee’s immediate family, i.e., spouse, parent. stepparent or grandparent, parent, stepparent or grandparent of current spouse, child or stepchild, grandchild, brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, half-brother,
l
half-sister, son-in-law or daughter-in-law, a seniority employee, on request, will be excused, and after making written application therefor, receive payment for up to three (3) normally scheduled eight (8) hour days of work (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, or, in the case of seven-day operations, excluding regular off days and holidays) during the period commencing with the date of death and ending with the second calendar day aftei (he day of the funeral, provided the employee attends the funeral.
(b)	-The employee shall receive Bereavement Pay for the first three (3) full working days on which the employee is absent during the period established in Subsection (a).
(c)	-An employee who returns to work on or after the date of the funeral will not be eligible for Bereavement Pay for any subsequent absence in connection with that bereavement.
(d)	— Payment shall be made at the employee’s straighttime hourly rate on the last day worked exclusive of shift and overtime premiums but including seven-day operations premium and the amount of any cost-of-living allowance then in effect. Time thus paid will not be counted as hours worked for purposes of overtime.
(e)	— In the event the body of a member of an employee’s immediate family is not buried in continental North America solely because the cause of death has physically destroyed the body, or the body is donated to an accredited North American hospital or medical center for research purposes, the requirement that the employee attend the funeral will be waived.
(f)	— In the event an employee is granted a leave of absence because of the illness of a member of the employee’s immediate
50
family and such family member dies within the first seven (7) calendar days of the leave, the requirement that the employee otherwise would have been scheduled to work will be waived.
(g)	— In determining whether an employee on temporary layoff may qualify for bereavement pay on the occasion of the death of a member of the employee’s immediate family, the count for the three (3) day bereavement period shall begin with the date immediately following the date of death, rather than with the day of death under the current practice.
(h)	— An otherwise eligible employee who, for justified reasons related to the death of a family member, requires bereavement leave on a day other than one of the first three (3) normally scheduled working days, will be excused from work and be eligible for pay for any three (3) normally scheduled working days within the ten (IO) calendar day period immediately following the death of a member of the employee’s immediate family as defined, provided the absence is related to the family member’s death and the employee attends the funeral.
Further, the Company also advised the Union that when the funeral of an immediate family member is unusually delayed. the employee excused from work under Section (60) may receive bereavement pay for up to three (3) normally scheduled working days during the period commencing with the date of death and rending with the second calendar day after the day of the funeral provided the employee attends the funeral even if one or more of the successive days in question occur after the tenth day following the date of death.
(61) Jury Duty
Any employee with seniority who is called to and reports to jury duty (including Coroner’s Juries and duty required in connection with the Ontario Public Institution Inspection Act) shall be paid an amount equal to the employee's straight time hourly rate, exclusive of shift, overtime, and any other premiums, on the last day worked multiplied by eight (8) or the number of hours
51
less than eight (8) that the employee otherwise would have been scheduled to work for the Corporation on the day for which the payment is to be made less the daily jury duty fee (not including travel allowances or reimbursement of expenses) paid the employee by the court in which the employee serves.
In order to receive payment under this Section, an employee must give the Corporation prior notice that the employee has been summoned for jury duty and must furnish satisfactory evidence that jury duty was performed on the days for which such payment is claimed. Any employee who is called to and reports for an interview or an examination to qualify for selection to a jury shall be considered to have performed jury duty and shall qualify foi jury duty pay if otherwise eligible as provided herein.
An otherwise eligible hourly employee who reports for jury duty service in accordance with the direction of the court and who is released by the court early in the day, is not required to return to work on that day to be eligible for jury duty pay for the day.
This Section (61) is not applicable to an employee who, without being summoned, volunteers for jury duty.
WORKING HOURS
(62) Call-in and Call-back Pay
An employee reporting to work on the Supervisor’s or management’s instructions but for whom no work at the employee’s regular job is available will be offered at least four (4) hours employment at some other work at the employee’s regular hourly rate. This provision shall not apply when the lack of work is due to a labour dispute, fire, flood or other cause beyond the control of the management.
(63)	Shift Premium and Hours
(a)	— Employees regularly employed on the second or third shift shall receive in addition to their regular pay for the pay
52
t
period five (5) per cent and ten (10) per cent, respectively, additional compensation.
(b)	— The first shift is any shift that regularly starts on oi after 4:00 a.m. but before 11:00 a.nt. The second shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 11:00 a.m. but before 7:00 p.m. The third shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 7:00 p.m. but before 4:00 a.m.
(64)	Time and One-Half
Time and one-half will be paid as follows, except as provided in Section (66):
(a)	— For time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any continuous twenty-four (24) hour period, beginning with the starting time of the employee’s shift.
(b)	— For time worked on Saturday, except when a shift starts on Friday and continues into Saturday: provided, that hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week on such shift will be paid at time and one-half.
(65)	Double Time
Double time will be paid as follows, except as provided in Section (66):
(a)	— For time worked on the calendar Sunday.
(b)	— For the time worked on the calendar holidays designated in Section (74).	;
(66)	Seven-Day Operations
Employees working on what are normally classified as seven-day operations will not be paid overtime or premium pay in accordance with Sections (64) and (65) above, but will be paid as follows:
(a)	-Tune and one-half for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any continuous twenty-four (24) hour period begin-
53
ning with the starting time of the employee’s shift or in excess of forty (40) hours per week.
(b)	— Time and one-half for time worked on the sixth (6th) day of the employee’s scheduled workweek.
(c)	— Double time for time worked on the seventh (7th) consecutive scheduled day whether or not the seven consecutive scheduled days fall in the same workweek.
(d)	— For the purposes of Subsections (b) and (c), a holiday specified in Section (74) for which an employee receives holiday pay or on which the employee performs work will be considered as a day worked. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section (68), a holiday counted in determining an employee’s eligibility for payment pursuant to Subsection (b) may also be counted in determining the same employee’s eligibility for payment pursuant to Subsection (c).
(e)	— Double time and one-half for time worked on any days on which any of the designated holidays is observed unless the holiday falls on one of the employee’s regularly scheduled days off in which event the employee, in addition to holiday pay under Section (84), will be paid double time for time worked.
(f)	— Time and one-quarter for time worked on a Sunday that is not compensable at a higher overtime rate under any other provision of this Agreement.
(67)	Si?ven-Day Operations Premium
Employees who work on operations covered by Section (66) shall receive twenty cents (20(S) per hour above their base rate for time worked. This premium shall be included in computing payment in lieu of vacation with pay, paid absence allowance, holiday pay, Bereavement Pay, Jury Duty Pay, and any overtime or premium pay.
54
(68)	Overtime Pyramiding Prohibited
The allowance of overtime or premium pay (other than shift premium) for any hour or part of an hour excludes that hour from consideration for overtime or premium pay on any other basis, thus eliminating any pyramiding of overtime or premium payments.
(69)	Lunch Period
(a)	— When on full-time three-shift per day operations the time from the beginning of the shift to the end of it does not exceed eight hours, theemployees shall work 7-3/4 hours on each shift and shall have a lunch period of one-quarter hour and shall receive eight hours pay.
(b)	— It is understood that this arrangement does not apply to shifts on which the employees work eight hours and have in addition a period for lunch, or to shifts on which by reason of reduction of hours for reasons other than the lunch period, there is time for a lunch period.
(70)	Payment for Day of Injury
(a)	— An employee who receives Workers’ Compensation will be paid by the Corporation for the balance of the shift on which the injury occurred.
(b)	— An employee who is injured on the job will be paid for the balance of the shift on which the employee has been sent home or to an outside hospital or outside doctor by a medical officer of the Company or other member of management authorized to do so, because of such injury.
(c)	— An employee who is injured at work and who, during the employee’s shift is sent to a hospital for emergency treatment by a medical officer of the Company or other member of management authorized to do so will be paid at the appropriate rate for such time as is approved by the Company medical officer.
55
Any time paid for will not exceed two (2) hours beyond the end
of the employee’s regular work shift.
(71)	Workweek Defined
The regularly scheduled workweek starts at 12:01 a.m., Monday, and ends 168 hours thereafter, except For those employees on third shift operations starting Sunday night in which case their regularly scheduled workweek starts with the beginning of their shift Sunday night and ends 168 hours thereafter.
(72)	Reporting Absences
A system shall be established in each plant which will permit an employee to verify the fact that the employee has notified the Corporation by telephone of an inability to report for work.
(73)	Schedule and Notice
It is agreed that the vacation shall be granted within the months of July and/or August and notice of the vacation period shall be posted not later than April 30th in each year and prior to that date the parties will disscuss whether the vacation period for such a year shall be one (1) week or two (2) weeks.
HOLIDAY PAY
(74) Holidays Designated

The holidays are designated as:

December 25, 1990 December 26, 1990 December 27, 1990 December 28, 1990 Decembi January
Remembrance Day*
Christmas
Holiday
Period
56
March 29,1991 April I, 1991 May 17, 1991 May 20, 1991 July I, 1991 August 30, 1991 September 2, 1991 October 14, 199 1 November 1 1, 1991 December 23,199 1 December 24,199 1 December 25,199 I December 26,199 I December 27, 1991 December 30,199 1 December 3 1,1991 January I, 1992 April 17, 1992 April 20, 1992 May 15, 1992 May 18, 1992 July 3,1992 September 4, 1992 September 7, 1992 October 12, 1992 November 9, 1992 December 24, 1992 December 25, 1992 December 28, 1992 December 29, 1992 December 30,1992 December 3 1,1992 January I, 1993 April 9, 1993 April 12, 1993 May 21,1993
Good Friday Monday after Eastei Friday before Victoria Day Victoria Day Canada Day
Friday before Labour Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day*
Christmas
Holiday
Period
Good Friday Monday after Easter Friday before Victoria Day Victoria Day Canada Day
Friday before Labour Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day*
Christmas
Holiday
Period
Good Friday Monday after Easter Friday before Victoria Day
57
May 24, 1993 July 2, J 993 September September
Victoria Day Canada Day
Friday before Labour Day Labour Day
* Brampton/Bramalea employees will not observe the November 12,1990, November 11,199 I or November 9,1992 holidays but instead will observe the October 11, 199 1 and October 9, 1992 Friday before Thanksgiving Day holidays.
In the event that a province or subdivision thereof either by law or declaration having the force of law requires a plant closing in observance of a holiday: (i) which is not a designated holiday in this Section, such provincial or local holiday shall be observed by the affected plant in lieu of whichever one of the holidays designated herein the parties to the Agreement shall select; or (ii) on a date other than the date specified herein for such holiday, the holiday shall be observed by the affected plant on the date the plant is required to close in lieu of the date specified herein.
(75)	Eligibility
An employee will be paid for eight hours at the employee’s regular straight time hourly rate inclusive of shift premium, but exclusive of overtime premium for the designated holidays provided the employee meets all of the following eligibility rules unless otherwise provided herein:
(a)	— the employee has seniority as of the date of the holiday,
(b)	— the employee would otherwise have been scheduled to work on such day if it had not been observed as a holiday, and
(c)	— the employee must have worked the last scheduled working day prior to and the next scheduled working day aftei such holiday within the scheduled workweek. An employee excused by management from work on the last scheduled working clay prior to or on the next scheduled working day after such
58
holiday within the scheduled workweek, but not both, shall be deemed to have met the requirements of this Paragraph (c); except that in the case of holidays which fall in the holiday period starting December 23 through the following January l the employee must have worked the last scheduled working day prioi to, and the next scheduled working day after, such holiday period, regardless of the workweek in which the scheduled working days fall.
(d)	— Employees will be called in to work only in emergencies on the following days which are not paid holidays under this Agreement:
Saturday, December 22, 1990 Sunday, December 23,1990 Saturday, December 29, 1990 Sunday, December 30,1990 Saturday, December 2 I , 199 1 Sunday, December 22,199 I Saturday, December 28,199 I Sunday, December 29,199 1 Saturday, December 26, 1992 Sunday, December 27,1992 Saturday, January 2, 1993 Sunday, January 3,1993
Employees shall not be disqualified for holiday pay, if otherwise eligible for such pay, if they decline a work assignment on one or more of the above days.
The foregoing provisions shall not apply to employees assigned to (I ) seven-day operations; (2) third shift Sunday night start operations; and (3) a shift which starts on Friday and continues into Saturday.
59
(76)	Employees Laid Off or Going on Sick Leave
Seniority employees who have been laid off in a reduction of force or who have gone on sick leave during the workweek prior to or during the week in which the holiday falls, shall receive pay for such holiday, except that an employee on sick leave and in receipt of Workers’ Compensation benefits for such holiday shall not qualify for the holiday.
(77)	Employees Returning From Layoff or Leave of Absence
When an eligible employee is on layoff or on approved leave of absence and returns to work following the holiday but during the week in which the holiday fell, the employee shall be eligible for pay for that holiday.
(78)	Holidays Falling on Saturday or Sunday
(a)	— When a holiday falls on Saturday or Sunday, eligible employees shall receive holiday pay provided they qualify under Subsection (c) of Section (75).
(b)	— When any of the holidays designated in Section (74) falls on Sunday and the day following is observed as a holiday by the Provincial or the Federal Government, such day shall be paid as the holiday.
(79)	Employees on Leave of Absence for Jury Duty or Vacation
When any of the holidays designated in Section (74) falls within an approved leave of absence for vacation under the established vacation plan and the employee’s absence from work is attributable to such absence, the employee shall receive pay for such holiday.
When any of the holidays designated in Section (74) falls within the employee’s approved leave of absence for jury duty and the employee’s absence from work that day is attributable to the employee’s serving on jury duty, the employee shall receive
60
pay for such holiday and retain the daily jury duty fee paid the employee by the court in which the employee serves.
(80)	Holiday Pay — Christmas Holiday Period
1.	A seniority employee who requests and is granted a vacation leave of absence which includes the last scheduled working day prior to a Christmas Holiday Period and who also requests and is granted a vacation leave of absence which includes the first scheduled working day after such Christmas Holiday Period, shall, if otherwise eligible, receive pay for the holidays which fall in such Christmas Holiday Period.
2.	A seniority employee excused by said employee’s Supervisor from work on the last scheduled working day prior to or on the next scheduled working day after a Christmas Holiday Period, or both, shall, if otherwise eligible, receive pay for the holidays which fall in that Christmas Holiday Period.
3.	A seniority employee on sick leave of absence who is released by said employee’s doctor to return to work during a Christmas Holiday Period, shall, ifotherwiseeligible, receive pay for the holidays in the Christmas Holiday Period falling on and after the date the employee notifies the plant of the employee’s availability for work and, provided further, that the employee presents satisfactory medical evidence of the employee’s availability to work on such day upon the employee’s return to work.
4.	A seniority employee on a personal leave of absence which expires during a Christmas Holiday Period, shall, if otherwise eligible, receive pay for the holidays in the Christmas Holiday Period which fall (1) on or after the expiration date of such leave or (2) on and after the date the employee notifies the employee’s plant of the employee’s availability for work, whichever is later.
5.	A seniority employee absent without excuse on either the last scheduled working day prior to or the next scheduled working day after a Christmas Holiday Period shall be ineligible for pay
61
for two (2) of the holidays in the Christmas Holiday Period, but shall, if otherwise eligible, receive pay for the remaining holidays in the Christmas Holiday Period.
(81)	Holiday Pay - Temporary Layoff
A seniority employee who is temporarily or indefinitely laid off during the fourth work week prior to a week in which one or more of the holidays in the Christmas holiday period falls, and who worked the employee’s last scheduled working day prior to such layoff, shall, if otherwise eligible, receive pay for the holidays falling during such Christmas holiday period. A seniority employee who is laid off during the fifth, sixth or seventh work week prior to a week in which one or more of the holidays in the Christmas holiday period falls and who worked the employee’s last scheduled working day prior to such layoff shall, if otherwise eligible, receive pay for one-half of the holidays falling during such Christmas holiday period. An employee temporarily laid off shall receive pay for such holidays following the employee’s return to work from such layoff. An employee indefinitely laid off shall receive pay for such holidays on the second payday following the Christmas holiday period.
(82)	P.A.A. and Holiday Pay Eligibility
An employee who requests and is granted Paid Absence Allowance for the balance of a week in which a regular paid holiday falls will be deemed to meet the requirements of Section (75) of the Agreement. This will apply only where the employee has sufficient Paid Absence Allowance available to blank out the entire week except for the holiday.
In the circumstance where an employee does not have sufficient P.A.A. to blank out the week of the holiday the employee will be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this Section if the employee is granted a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours P.A.A. which together with excused absence does enable the employee to blank out the week of the holiday.
62
(83)	Return to Work on Friday Holiday
Under the normal holiday pay and sickness and accident benefit rules an employee on sick leave who is cleared on Thursday by the employee’s doctor and the Company medical officei as able to return to work on a Friday holiday may not qualify for either holiday pay or sickness and accident benefits. Such an employee will be deemed to qualify for holiday pay if otherwise eligible.
(84)	Seven-Day Operationa
Employees working on operations which are normally classified as seven-day operations shall receive holiday pay in the event the holiday Falls on one of their regularly scheduled days off and they meet the other eligibility requirements of this procedure for paid holiday time; provided, however, that if such employees work on a holiday which falls on their scheduled day of work when such employees are scheduled to work on a holiday and do work, they shall not receive holiday pay under this procedure but shall be paid for time worked in accordance with Section (66).
(85)	Failure to Report for Holiday Work
An employee who may be requested to work on a holiday and who accepts such holiday work assignment and then fails to report for and perform such work, without reasonablecause, shall not receive holiday pay.
PAYMEENT IN LIEU OF VACATION AND PAID ABSENCE ALLOWANCE
(86)	Payment Schedules
(a)	— On June30 ofeach year the Corporation wilt establish basic payment in lieu of vacation with pay and provide a paid absence allowance to eligible hourly employees who have worked for at least 26 pay periods in the vacation eligibility year
63
(the year including the pay period in which May 3 I occurs and the preceding 5 I pay periods) as follows:
Basic
Payment
Seniority on June 30 of the Vacation Eligibility Year
Paid
in Lieu of Vacation With Pay
Absence
Allow-
ance
1 but less than 3 year;- 1 3 but less than 5 years '
5 but less than IO years< 1'	(
10 but less than 15 years/; >, 15 but less than 20 years! 20 years or more . ,
40 hours Ip0 hours .^80 hours / 100 hours ; 120 hours 160 hours
68 hours 68 hours 68 hours 68 hours 68 hours 68 hours
The number of hours of the basic payment in lieu of vacation with pay and paid absence allowance to which an eligible employee shall beentitled shall be based on the employee’s seniority on June 30 of the vacation eligibility year and the number of pay periods during which the employee worked during the eligibility year.
(b)	— An eligible employee shall beentitled to a percentage of the above basic payment in lieu of vacation with pay and of the above paid absence allowance as follows:
Pay Periods Worked	Percentage
in the Vacation	of
Eligibility Year	Payment
26 or more	100%
25	96%
24	92%
23	88%
22	84%
21	80%
20	76%
19	73%
64
18
17
16
15
14
13
69%
65%
61%
51%
53%
50%
(c)	— A seniority employee with less than one (1) year of seniority on June 30 of the vacation eligibility year who has worked for at least 26 pay periods in the vacation eligibility year will be eligible for a forty (40) hour basic payment in lieu of vacation with pay.
A seniority employee who has worked at least 13 but less than 26 pay periods shall be entitled to a basic payment in lieu of vacation with pay according to the following table:
Pay Periods Worked	Percentage
in the Vacation	of
Eligibility Yeai	Payment
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
100%
96%
92%
88%
84%
80%
76%
73%
69%
65%
61%
57%
53%
50%
(d)	— I .The above basic payments in lieu of vacation with pay shall be computed at the employee’s straight time hourly rate effective the beginning of the first pay period beginning on or
65
after June 1 (or if off the active hourly payroll, at the rate for the last day worked) of each year during the term of this Agreement exclusive of overtime premium, but including shift and seven-day operations premiums plus the then current Cost-of-Living Allowance.
2.	Employees who are otherwise eligible will receive shift premium for payment in lieu of vacation hours based on the proportion of the total time worked to that which is worked on the second and third shift during the vacation eligibility year.
3.	Basic payment in lieu of vacation with pay entitlement shall be paid to eligible employees in June of each year, provided, however, that an employee may elect to be paid all or part of the employee’s basic payment in lieu of vacation with pay at the time the employee takes vacation leave of absence, computed as set forth above, by indicating this election on the employee’s vacation request form.
4.	Payments from an employee’s Paid Absence Allowance because of absence or because of termination of the employee’s employmentby death, retirement or otherwise, shall becomputed at the employee’s straight time hourly rate on the employee’s last day worked exclusive of overtime premium, but including shift and seven-day operations premiums and the amount of any cost-of-living allowance then in effect.
5.	Payment of the unused portion of the Paid Absence Allowance shall be computed in the same manner and at the same time as theemployee’s basic payment in lieu of vacation with pay for the next vacation year.
(e)	— I. An employee may use the hours credited to the employee’s Paid Absence Allowance in units of no less than one-half (1/2) day periods for: excused absence because of illness when not receiving Sickness and Accident Insurance; or absence that the employee’s supervisor has excused because of personal business; or as payment for a vacation leave of absence. A request for Paid Absence Allowance by an eligible employee made sub-
66
sequent to such absence will be approved for payment, but such
payment shall not make such absence an excused absence or preclude the Management from considering such absence as the basis, in whole or in part, for disciplinary action.	'
2. Any portion of an employee’s Paid Absence Allowance that the employee does not use in the form of paid absences during the vacation payment year (the pay period following the pay period in which May 31 occurs and the next 51 pay periods) will be paid to the employee (computed pursuant to Subsection (d), at the: time the Corporation makes its payment in lieu of vacation with pay in the following payment year. An employee permanently separated or promoted to a salaried classification shall receive any remaining unused Paid Absence Allowance within thirty (30) days after the Corporation receives notification of the employee’s separation or promotion,
(0 — An employee disabled from work by compensable injury or legal occupational disease shall accrue credit toward pay periods worked for pay periods the employee would otherwise have been scheduled to work during the period of compensable disability provided such employee works at least one pa) period in the eligibility year.
(g)	-An employee who receives pay for one or more of the designated holidays which fall in work weeks commencing December 24,1990, or December 23,199 I or December 28,1992, shall receive credit for a pay period worked For purpose of computation of entitlement under Section (86), Payment Schedules.
(h)	— Employees who submit a written request for payment of deferred Paid Absence Allowance at least one week in advance of the: requested payment date will receive payment of the full amount of the employee’s remaining Paid Absence Allowance.
67
(87) Eligibility
(a)	-- An employee will be considered eligible for payments under Section (86) if the employee has worked for the Corporation for at least 13 pay periods in the vacation eligibility year and:
1.	is on the active hourly payroll on June 30 of the vacation eligibility year. If the employee has been promoted to a salaried classification subsequent to June 30 of the vacation eligibility year but prior to the established date for distribution of basic payment in lieu of vacation cheques, the employee may be granted a vacation under the appropriate salaried vacation plan rather than the hourly basic payment in lieu of vacation with pay; or
2.	is not on the active hourly payroll on June 30 of the vacation eligibility year because of sickness or injury, layoff, or leave of absence.
(b)	— A salaried employee transferred to an hourly job or laid off from a salaried position and reinstated to an hourly job, who is otherwise eligible, shall receive payments under Section (86) based on the employee’s Corporation service and the total number of pay periods worked in the vacation eligibility year, less any payment previously received for a salaried vacation earned in the current and/or preceding calendar year.
(c)	— 1. Employees who prior to June 30 of the vacation eligibility year have died or have retired under the Pension Plan or were automatically retired at age sixty-five (65), or their estates, or estates of deceased retired employees shall receive basic payments under Section (86) that the employees were otherwise eligible to receive, computed as set forth in Subsection (c) 2. below; provided, however, that an employee who retires or is retired under the provisions of the Pension Plan and who, but for retirement, would have at least one year’s seniority as of June 30 of the vacation eligibility year but who has not worked in at least thirteen (13) pay periods in the vacation eligibility year shall receive for each of the pay periods the employee worked during
68
such year one twenty-sixth (1/26) of the maximum basic payments to which the employee’s seniority as of June 30 of the vacation eligibility year would otherwise have entitled the employee under Section (86), computed as set forth below.
2. The basic payments set forth in Subsection (c) I. above shall be computed at the employee’s straight time hourly rate exclusive of overtime premium but including shift and seven-day operations premium and the amount of cost-of-living allowance in effect on the last day worked.
(88)	Union Bulletin Boards;
(a)	— Placing of Bulletin Boards
A bulletin board shall be placed in each district by the Corporation which may be used by the Union for posting notices of the following types:
Notices of recreational and social events.
Notices of elections.
Notices of results of elections.
Notices of meetings.
Notices of General Health and Safety matters that are educational or informational, provided such notices have prior approval for posting by the Union Member of the Local Joint Health and Safety Committee.
(b)	— Limit on Use of Bulletin Board
The bulletin board shall not be used by the Union for disseminating propaganda of any kind whatsoever; and among other things shall not be used by the Union for posting or distributing pamphlets or political matter of any kind whatsoever, or for advertising.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
69
S.U.B.P., INCOME MAINTENANCE/ VOLUNTARY TERMINATION. INSURANCE. RELOCATION ALLOWANCE, AND LEGAL’ SERVICES
(89)	The following agreements are incorporated and made a part of this agreement:
Exhibit A.	Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan.
Exhibit B.	Income Maintenance Benefit Plan and Voluntary Termination of Employment Plan
Exhibit C.	The Life and Disability Insurance Program
Exhibit D.	Relocation Allowance Plan
Exhibit F.	Legal Services Plan
Exhibit G.	‘The Health Care Program
i	WAGES
(90)	Cost-of-Living Allowance
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be subject to the following cost-of-living allowance formula determining the cost-of-living allowance as set forth below:
(a)	— Effective with the adjustment scheduled for December 3, 1990, the cost-of-living allowance will be determined in accordance with changes in the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1 981 = 100) in accordance with the Letter of Understanding signed by the parties.
Effective with the adjustment scheduled for March 4,1991, the cost-of-living allowance will be determined in accordance with changes in the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986 = 100) in accordance with the Letter of Understanding signed by the parties.
(b)	— Effective December 3, 1990, and thereafter during the period of this Agreement, adjustments in the cost-of-living
70
allowance shall be made on the following dates and, in each case, shall be based on the following Consumer Price Indexes:
Effective at Beginning of First Pay Period Commencing on or After:
Based on Three-Month Average of the Consumer Price Indexes for:
Dec.
Mar.
June ,
Sept.
Dec.
Mar.
June
Sept. I, 1992 Dec. I, 1992 Mar. I, 1993 June I, 1993
Nov., Dec. 1991, Jan. 1992
Feb., Mar., Apr., 1992 May, June, July, 1992 Aug., Sept., Oct., 1992
Feb., Mar., / ± ,
May, June, July, 1991 Aug., Sept., Oct., 199 I
Aug., Sept., Oct., 1990 Nov., Dec.,	.,1991
In determining the three-month average of the Indexes foi a specified period, the computed average shall be rounded to the nearest 0.1 Index Point.
In no event will a decline in the three-month average Consumer Price Index below 157.4 (1981 = 100 Base) provide the basis for a reduction in the wage scale by job classification.
(c)— 1. Effective the beginning of the pay period commencing on or after receipt of notice of ratification but after the application of the wage increases provided in Section (91), one dollar and sixty-seven cents ($1.67) shall be deducted from the one dollar and seventy-two cents ($1.72) cost-of-living allowance in effect immediately prior to that date and shall be added to the full base rate for each classification.
2. The amount of the cost-of-living allowance effective the beginning of the pay period commencing on or after receipt of notice of ratification and ending December 2,1990 shall be five cents (50) per hour.
71
3.	Commencing December 3, 1990 the allowance shall be determined in accordance with the following table:
Three-Month Average	Cost-of-Living
Consumer Price Index	Allowance
157.4	or less
157.5	. . .
157.6	. . , .
157.7	. . .
157.8	. . ,
157.9	....
158.0 .	.	.
.	None
. 10 per hour
. 20 per hour 30 per hour 40 per hour . 50 per hour 60 per hour
And so forth with one cent (10) adjustment for each . I point change in the Average Index as calculated in accordance with the Letter of Understanding signed by the parties.
Commencing March 4,199 I and for each period thereafter as provided in subsection (b) the allowance shall be based on the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986 = 100) with one cent (10) adjustment for each .073 change in the Average Index and will be calculated in accordance with the Letter of Understanding signed by the parties.
(d)	-The amount of any cost-of-living allowance in effect at the time shall be included in computing overtime premium, shift premium, holiday payments, call-in pay, vacation payments, paid absence allowance payments, jury duty pay and bereavement pay.
(e)	— In the event that Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Indexes on or before the beginning of one of the pay periods referred to in Subsection (b), any adjustment in the allowance required by such appropriate indexes shall be effective at the beginning of the first pay period after receipt of the Index.
(f)	— No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision that may later be made in the published
72
figures used in the calculation of the Consumer Price Index, as applicable for any month on the basis of which the allowance has been determined.
(g)	— The continuance of the cost-of-living allowance shall be contingent upon the availability of the monthly Consumer Price Index referred to in Subsection (a) published by Statistics Canada calculated on the same basis as the Index for August, 1990, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties.
(h)	-The cost-of-living allowance payable under the provisions of this Section shall be included in an employee’s weekly pay cheque.
(i)	— Pay adjustments made in a cost-of-living allowance period applicable to any previous cost-of-living allowance period will include the allowance applicable during the period to which the adjustments relate.
(91)	Wage Increases
(a)	— Effective the beginning of the pay period commencing on or after receipt of notice of ratification each employee covered by this Agreement shall receive an increase in straight time hourly wage rate (exclusive of cost-of-living allowance, and shift premium, seven-day operations premium, and any other premiums), in accordance with the following Table I:
TABLE I
Straight Time Hourly ‘Wage Rate
Wage
Increase
Less than $15.50



16.50—	16.83  
17.17—17.49
73
17.50 - 17.83 .
17.84—	18.16 .
18.17—	18.49 .
18.50—	18.83 .
18.84—	19.16 .
19.17—	19.49
19.50—	19.83
530 per hour 540 per hour 550 per hour 560 per hour 570 per hour 580 per houi 590 per hour
The increase in base rates provided for in this Subsection will be added to the full base hourly rate for each classification.
(b)	— Effective the beginning of the pay period commencing on or after receipt of notice of ratification and after the application of the general wage increase provided in Section (a) above, a Special Increase for Skilled Trades of sixty cents (600) will be added to the full base hourly rate for each skilled trades classification.
(c)	— Improvement Factor. The improvement factor provided herein recognizes the principle that a continuing improvement in the standard of living of employees depends upon technological progress, better tools, methods, processes and equipment and a cooperative attitude on the part of all parties in such progress. It further recognizes the principle that to produce more with the same amount of human effort is a sound economic and social objective. Accordingly, effective September 16, 1991 and September 2 1,1992, each employee covered by this Agreement shall receive an improvement factor increase in straight time hourly wage rate (exclusive ofcost-of-living allowance, and shift premium, seven-day operations premium, and any other premiums), in accordance with the following Table II:
TABLE II
Straight Time Hourly	Wage
Wage Rate	Increase
Less than $17.75 ........................... 350 per hour
17.75 - 18.24 ...........360 per hour
74
370 per hour
380 per hour 390 per hour 400 per hour 410 per hour 420 per hour 430 per hour 440 per hour 450 per hour 460 per hour
The increase in base rates provided for in this Subsection will be added to the full base hourly rate for each classification.
(d)	— Effective September 2 I, 1992 and after the application of the improvement factor increase provided in Section (c) above, a Special Increase for Skilled Trades of thirty cents (300) will be added to the full base hourly rate for each skilled trades classification.
(92)	Rates During Agreement
During the term of this Agreement, the base hourly rate foi each classification covered by this Agreement will be as described in the Corporation rate classification book referred to in Section (93) below,.
(93)	Rate Rook
The Corporation will furnish to the National Union a copy of the rate classification book of the Corporation for classifications represented by the Union. The Corporation will also furnish to the National Union for distribution to the Local Unions applicable rate books for classifications at each plant where employees are covered by the terms of this Agreement. The rate classification books are to be treated in confidence and kept at the office of the National Union and the Local Unions.
75
(94)	Rates for New Jobs
(a)	— When a new job is placed in production and cannot be properly placed in an existing classification, the Corporation will set up a new classification and a rate of pay for that job. A written notice of the classification, rate of pay, and effective date of the classification and rate of pay will be given to the National Union,
(b)	— If the National Union disagrees with the new classification or the rate of pay, the National Union may notify the Corporation, and the National Union and the Corporation shall thereafter negotiate the protested classifications or rate of pay. If a rate of pay is negotiated that is higher than the rate established by the Corporation, the negotiated rate shall be applied retroactively not more than 30 days from the date of settlement.
(c)	— If the National Union does not notify the Corporation, as provided in Subsection (b), the classification and rate of pay shall be deemed to be satisfactory to the National Union and there shall be no appeal thereafter.
(95)	Wage Progression
(a)- (1 )A new employee hired on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall be hired at a rate equal to eightyfive percent (85%) of the full base rate of the job classification.
(2)	At the expiration of one hundred and eighty (1 80) days of employment, such employee shall receive an increase to ninety percent (90%) of the full base rate of the job classification.
(3)	At the expiration of three hundred and sixty-five (365) days of employment, such employee shall receive an increase to ninety-five percent (95%) of the full base rate of the job classification.
(4)	At the expiration of five hundred and forty-five (545) days of employment, such employee shall be paid the full base rate of the job classification,
76
(b)	— An employee will receive credit for seven days for each pay period during which the employee works except that credit will not be given for any days the employee is on layoff. Credit will not be given for any pay period during which for any reason, the employee does not work except that an employee disabled from work by compensable injury or legal occupational disease shall accrue credit toward pay periods worked and in the case of the pay period in which the full week of the Christmas Holidays fall, provided the employee would otherwise have been scheduled to work. Further, an employee will be given progression credit of either one or two weeks of the vacation shutdown period provided the employee earns at least 40 or 80 hours of vacation and paid absence allowance entitlement respectively. Each increase shalhbe effective at the beginning of the first pay period following the completion of the required number of days of employment.
(c)	— A laid-off seniority employee hired in a job classification other than skilled trades, shall receive a base rate, upon re-employment which has the same relative position to the maximum base rate of the job classification as had been attained by the employee prior to layoff. Such employee shall continue to be covered by the rate progression provisions in effect during the period of previous employment. Upon such re-employment, the credited rate progression period of the employee’s prior period of employment shall be applied toward the employee’s rate progression to the maximum rate of the job classification.
(d)	—The foregoing Subsections (95) (a), (95) (b), and (95)
(c)	shall not apply to skilled trades classifications.
CONCLUSION
(96) Withdrawal of Demands and Separability
of Provisions
(a)	— Withdrawal of Demands 77
This agreement replaces all previous agreements between the parties.
Prior to and during the negotiation of this agreement, each party made certain proposals to the other. Each party hereto agrees that it has withdrawn all proposals made to the other that are not incorporated in or covered by this agreement, in whole or in part. The withdrawal of those proposals, in whole or in part, is as much aconsideration for this agreement as is the incorporation therein of matters agreed on. It is the intention of the parties that this agreement during its term shall cover all arrangements between the parties concerning wages, hours, and conditions of employment that are to be in effect during the term and that nothing shall be added to the agreement or subtracted from it by amendment, supplemental agreement or otherwise.
(b)	— Separability of Provisions
1.	In the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement are or become invalid or unenforceable, the remaining, unaffected provisions shall remain in full force and effect.
2.	Should the parties hereafter agree that applicable law makes, or probably makes, any of the provisions of this Agreement or of any of its supplements, memoranda of understanding or letters relating thereto invalid or unenforceable, the parties may agree on a replacement for the affected provision(s). Such replacement provision(s) shall become effective immediately upon agreement, and remain in effect for the duration of the Agreement, without the need for further ratification by the Union membership.
(97) Termination and Modification
This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until 11:59 p.m. September _ 14, 1993, or until the end of the last regularly scheduled shift beginning prior to 11:59 p.m. September 14,1993, whichever is later.	""
78
(a)	— If either party desires to modify, amend or terminate this Agreement, it shall, sixty (60) days prior to September 14, 1993, give written notice of its intention as provided in Section (96). Notice to modify or amend shall set forth the nature of the changes desired. Any amendments that may be agreed upon shall become and be a part of this Agreement without modifying oi changing any of the other terms of this Agreement. The giving by either party of such a notice to modify, amend or terminate shall terminate this Agreement at 11:59 p.m. September 14,1993.
(b)	— [f neither party gives a notice to modify, amend or terminate as provided in Subsection (a), or if each party giving a notice to modify, amend or terminate withdraws such notice prior to 11:59 p.m. September 14,1993, this Agreement shall continue in effect from year to year therafter subject to sixty (60) days’ written notice by either party to modify, amend or terminate this Agreement as provided herein prior to September 14, of any subsequent year.
(98) Notice!
Notice shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by mail addressed, if to the Union, to National Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada), 205 Placer Court, North York-Willowdale, Ontario M2H 3H9 or io such other address as National Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada) shall furnish to the Corporation, in writing, and if to the Corporation, addressed to Chrysler Canada Ltd., 2859 Tecumseh Road East, Windsor, Ontario, N9A 4H6, attention, Secretary, or to such other address as Chrysler Canada Ltd. shall furnish to National Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada), in writing.
79
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA)
R.	White
B.	Hargrove R. Nickerson
J.	O’Neil T. Squire R. Chernecki
Local 444, CAW
L.	Bauer G. Parent
K.	Lewenza D. Wilson F. Gillis
R. Schneider
R.	Gniposky D. MacDonald P. McNamara Local 1090, CAW
J.	Gatens P. Kaus
Local 1459, CAW
M.	Holjevac M. McCue Local 1285, CAW
T. Gorrnan
S.	Glendenning J. Krerner
B. Crew
CHRYSLER
CANADA LTD.
K.	R. Francese W.R. Loebach CA. Cooper P. Bezaire DR. Goulin
T.J. Desjardins D.J. Minello J.R. Broderick M.K. Harwood
L.	Bulat R.M. Robbins R.W. Stefanovich R. Hunter
D.C. Hewitt R.A. Beresford D.J. Root R.C. Thrasher P.K. Carswell
80
{STATEMENT OF POLICY NO. ‘I ABLE TO SATISFACTORILY PERFORM
The purpose of this phrase is tied in with seniority to assure the Corporation of a satisfactory performance just as seniority is designed to give an employee an equitable degree of security. The Corporation does feel that a reasonable application of this phrase throughout the Collective Bargaining Agreement would involve careful consideration of the following basic principles:
1.	.The complexity and nature of the job.
2.	The experience of the employee on the type of work involved.
3.	The amount of instruction and/or break-in required.
4.	The length of time that the employee would be working at the job involved.
In applying these principles generally, this would mean that the shorter the period of time an employee would be assigned to a particular job (e.g., overtime, short-term layoff) the less time the Corporation could be expected to spend on instruction or break-in even to the extent that present ability could be a requirement. Likewise, the longer period of time (in indefinite layoff or job opportunity situations) the longer time the Corporation could be expected to spend, up to reasonable limits, on instruction and/or break-in. Members of supervision in making such decisions should give thorough consideration to the ability of the employees.
It would mean that as jobs increase in complexity, etc., the greater the experience on the type of work involved would be required in order to be able to satisfactorily perform.
In its application, particularly in indefinite layoff and job opportunity situations, it would be advantageous to the employee and the Corporation and it would help to eliminate problems if employees would place on record with the Corporation by sup-
81
plemental application for employment, qualifications which they did not make known at the time of hire or which they have since acquired so that the Corporation would be in at least as good a position to qualify applicants in these situations as it is in assessing the qualification of new hires.
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT
Special Provisions Pertaining to Skilled Trades Employees
(1) The following Special Provisions Pertaining to Skilled Trades Employees (hereinafter referred to as the “Skilled Trades Agreement”) supplement the provisions of the Production and Maintenance Agreement applicable to skilled trades employees.
(2)	Definitions
When used in this Agreement:
(a)	— The term “Joumeyman/woman” means an employee in a skilled trades classification who has acquired the right to exercise seniority in one or more of such classifications, as hereinafter provided.
(b)	— The term “Temporary Employee” means an employee who has not acquired the right to exercise seniority in any of the skilled trades classifications.
(c)	— The term “Apprenticeable Skilled Trades Classification” means a classification in a trade which is apprenticed in one or more Chrysler plants covered by the Agreement.
(d)	— The term “Apprentice” means an employee duly registered and entered in a recognized training program for a skilled trade in one or more Chrysler plants covered by the Agreement.
82
(3)	Journeyman/woman
Upon completion of the Chrysler Apprentice Training Course, an apprentice shall immediately become a journeyman/woman and shall be given a seniority date as set forth in Section (12) — Seniority, of the Supplemental Agreement — Special Provisions Pertaining to Apprenticeship and Apprentice Standards.
(4)	New Hires —Skilled Trades Classifications
(a)	— The qualifications of an employee hired to work in the skilled trades classifications shall be carefully ascertained at the time of hiring. The employee’s experience must be in work of the kind performed at Chrysler in the employee’s classification and the employee must be fully qualified to do the work of one or more of these classifications.
(b)	— As a new hire an employee must prove (i) the employee has worked in the trade at least eight (8) years, or (ii) has satisfactorily completed a bonafide apprentice training course with similar standards to the Chrysler Apprentice Training Program.
(c)	— Ii is understood that for the purpose of qualifying for journeyman/woman status, an employee may present as evidence a journeyman/woman card properly issued to said employee by the International Union, UAW, or the National Union, CAW.
(d)	— An employee hired to work in the skilled trades classifications who (1) has satisfactorily completed the Chrysler Apprentice Training Course or an apprentice course of hours and related training comparable to Chrysler’s course, or (2) has accumulated eight (8) years’ experience in the classification in which the employee is hired, shall, upon completion of the probationary period, be entered on the seniority list as a journeyman/woman. It is incumbent on the employee to present these claims and proofs of qualification for journeyman/woman status at the time the employee is hired.
83
(e)	— The Union and the Corporation will review the prior experience and qualifications of an employee hired, transferred or promoted into the skilled trades classifications prior to hire, transfer or promotion. A list of new hires will be supplied weekly to the Skilled Trades Chairperson in Windsor, or the Skilled Trades Com-mitteeperson in Ajax or Etobicoke, as the case may be.
(5) List of Skilled Trades Classifications
Class. No.	Classification
5257
5350
5365
5380
5426
5520
5530
5556
5617
5629
5638
5645
5658
5668
5677
5680
5715
5719
5735
5739
5754
5759
5777
5905
5927
5942
Trimmer — Experimental
Inspector ■— Layout & Sample Check
Layout — Metal & Wood
Tool Maker -Tool & Gauge Inspection
Leader —• Skilled @ .43 Over Class Led
Grinder — Cutter
Grinder -Tool Room
Machine Oper. -Tool, Die & Maintenance
Carpenter
Electrician
Machine Repair
Mechanic — Engineering — Experimental Millwright
Painter & Glazier — Maintenance
Painter-Transportation Equipment
Pipefitter — Plumber
Repairer — Furnace
Mechanic-Gas & Electric Jitney
Recording Instrument — Maint. & Repair
Repairer — Sewing Machine
Repairer-Trailer
Mechanic -Truck — Tractor
Sheet Metal Worker
Boiler Operator
Engineer — Steam
Sewage Disposal Plant Operator
84
6120	Die Maker — Die Cast
6165	Tool Maker
6175	Tool Maker-Jig & Fixture Builder
6242	Welder — High Pressure
6250	Welder — Maintenance
6270	Welder-Tool & Die
For the purpose of this Section, Leader classifications shall be regarded as being the same as the classification led.
The Corporation and the National Union may from time to time, agree to amend, delete, add to, or otherwise modify the foregoing List of Classifications.
(6) Lay-Off — Recall
Where there is a decrease or increase in the skilled trader; the applicable procedure set out below shall be followed.
(a)	— In the event of a seasonal layoff for model change, skilled trades employees shall be laid off, retained or recalled to work on the basis of their seniority in their classification within the department or on the basis of their seniority in their trade group within the department as the case may be, provided, however, they are able to satisfactorily perform the work to be done. During such layoff, classification or trade group seniority within the department shall continue to be the basis upon which employ ees are laid off, retained or recalled until such time as the layoff has been converted to a plantwide basis. At such time and thereafter skilled trades employees shall be retained in or recalled to the plant in accordance with their seniority in their classification or trade group within the plant, provided, however. they are able to satisfactorily perform the work to be done.
(b)	— ‘Temporary Adjustment
In the case of temporary adjustments due to material shortages, machinery breakdowns, power failure, fire, flood or similui causes, or due to temporary reduction of production in some departments only, layoffs shall take place as follows: for the first
85
two days including the day of the layoff; the Corporation may reduce the shift within the department according to the seniority of the employees within their classification or trade group on that shift, provided the employees to be retained are able to satisfactorily perform the work to be done, or if the Corporation so elects, for the balanceof the shift and one day the Corporation may retain the employees on the shift who normally perform the work to be done (the senior employee being given preference in cases where more than one normal operator performs the work). Thereafter the reduction in the working force for each department so affected shall be adjusted and proceed according to the relative seniority of the employees in the department within their classification or trade group provided that the employees to be retained are able and willing to satisfactorily perform the work to be done. Recall to work following such a layoff shall be by department seniority within their classification or trade group provided the employee is able to satisfactorily perform the work to be done. The Corporation shall convert such layoff and recall from a departmental basis to a plant-wide seniority basis within fourteen (14) calendar days (unless otherwise mutually agreed) so that employees are thereafter, retained in or recalled to the plant in accordance with their classification or trade group seniority within the plant, provided however, they are able to satisfactorily perform the work to be done.
(c)	-Temporary Layoffs
When there is a temporary layoff that is a reduction in force for a definite period of time which is not a temporary adjustment or seasonal layoff for model change, employees within their classification or trade group within the department will be laid off as follows:
1.	Probationary employees will be laid off.
2.	Employees with less than one year of seniority within their classification or trade group will be laid off according to seniority.
86
3.	Employees with one year or more of seniority within their classification or trade group will be laid off in the inverse or descending order of their seniority with the most senior employee being laid off first. They will be advised of the expected duration of the layoff and their scheduled return date. However, such employees may elect to remain at work and if able to perform the available work will be permitted to do so in the same seniority order up to the number of employees required. The arrangement described above must result in maintaining an experienced, qualified work force capable of assuring the uninterrupted and efficient operation of the plant.
4.	If the: expected duration of the temporary layoff is subse-
quently extended to a later but definite date, employees laid off pursuant to Subsection (c) 3 above will be afforded the option of returning to work on the date originally scheduled or remaining on layoff for the duration of the extended period. An employee who elects to return on the original scheduled date will displace the junior employee within their classification or trade group in the department.	I
5.	(i) If it becomes necessary to recall employees laid off under Subsection (c) 3 above prior to the date originally planned, they will be recalled in the ascending order of their seniority within their classification or trade group with the most junior such employee in each department being recalled first.
(ii) If, after employees are temporarily laid off under Subsection (c) 3, it is determined in a department or group of departments that the temporary layoff will be extended for an indefinite period of time, the work force in the department or group of departments including those employees on temporary layoff will be adjusted within ten (10) working days in accordance with (d) below.
6.	If the duration of a temporary layoff is expected to exceed ten (IO) working days, the Local Union will be so notified. In a temporary layoff of such expected duration, the Local Union may
87
request the Management to waive the Temporary Layoff provisions set forth in this Section (c) and Management will reduce the working force according to the layoff provisions as set forth in Section (d) below. Such requests shall be made in writing within twenty-four (24) hours of the time the Union is notified of the layoff.
7.	The inverse seniority provisions as set forth in Section (6)
(c)	Temporary Layoffs, shall apply to employees on skilled trades classifications. For purposes of clarification, classification shall be deemed to mean skilled trades classification.
8.	It is understood that past practices with respect to Section 6 (a), (b) and (c) of the above provisions shall remain unchanged at the Etobicoke Casting Plant.
(d)	■— Plant Layoff or Departmental Reduction due to Permanent Discontinuance of Operations, etc. and Recall.
In the event of a layoff or a departmental reduction due to the permanent discontinuance of a specific operation or department or due to an indefinite reduction in production or work to be performed, skilled trades employees shall be retained or recalled to work on the basis of their seniority in their classification within the plant or on the basis of theirseniority in the tradegroup within the plant as the case may be, provided, however, they are able to satisfactorily perform the work to be done.
(7)	List of Apprenticeabie Classifications
Appendix I, which includes a list of the current approved Apprenticeable Skilled Trades and Schedules of Work Processes for certain of these classifications, has been agreed upon and signed by the parties hereto. The Corporation and the National Union, by agreement, may modify, add to or otherwise revise said Lists and Schedules.
(8)	General
(a)	— Seniority Lists
88
The seniority list of the department shall show opposite the name of each Journeyman/woman employee each classification in which the employee may exercise seniority in the department and, where feasible, in the plant.
(b)	— Skilled Trades Seniority Groups and Work Practices
It is understood that past practices with respect to skilled trades seniority groups in the Windsor Car Assembly Plant and Grand Marais Road Building shall remain unchanged.
In addition, skilled trades seniority groups and work practices shall remain unchanged at all other plants.
(c)	— Work Opportunity on Non-Skilled Work
A Journeyman/woman shall not exercise seniority in a nonskilled classification.
A laid-off Journeyman/woman may be hired as a new employee on an open job in a non-skilled classification. When recalled to employment in the skilled trades, the Journey-man/woman shall return and the seniority acquired as a nonskilled employee shall terminate.
(d)	—■ An employee in a Production classification may file in the Employment Department a single application for work in a skilled trades classification or trade group. To be considered, the application must be accompanied by proof that the employee is a journeyman/woman with experience in the work of the kind performed at Chrysler in the employee’s classification. When a vacancy occurs in a skilled trades classification or trade group in a plant other than the employee’s own, which is to be filled by a new hire, consideration will be given to such applications. The vacancy created in Production by the transfer of an employee pursuant to the provisions of this application procedure shall be filled in accordance with the job posting paragraphs of the appropriate Plant Special Provisions. On the written request of the Union, but not mare often than two (2) times in a calendar year,
89
notices will be posted in the plant to advise qualified employees that they may submit such application in writing.
(e)	— Seniority ofaQualified Journeyman/woman Entering a Skilled Trades Classification
Consistent with the intent of the Agreement, a non-skilled trades employee covered by this agreement who is a qualified journeyman/woman, and who enters a skilled trades classification, shall have seniority as of the date of entry into such skilled trades classification. For the purpose of this paragraph “date of entry” means the date on which the notice of vacancy is posted plant-wide.
(f)	— In the event that a qualified journeyman/woman having seniority in a production classification accepts work in a skilled trades classification or trade group and within ninety (90) days thereafter is laid off or disqualified by reason of inability to perform the work in said classification, the employee shall be returned to production with the seniority date the employee had immediately prior to transfer into the skilled trades classification or trade group.
(g)	— Replacement of Tools
The Company shall, where reasonably practical, continue its past practice regarding the replacement of worn, stolen, broken and lost tools provided the employee’s carelessness or abuse has not caused the problem.
The Company agrees to use its best endeavours to speed up the replacement of tools under this sub-section.
(h)	-Testing of Welders
The Corporation will arrange testing of high-pressure welders consistent with governmental regulation.
(i)	-- Foul Weather Gear
90
The Company agrees that it will make available where required foul weather gear for those employees required to perform their duties in winter or inclement weather.
(j)	-Canadian Skilled Trades Council Dues
The Corporation will deduct from the pay of an employee hired, rehired, reinstated or transferred to a skilled trades classification the sum of an amount equal to one-half (1 /2) hours pay as dues for the Canadian Skilled Trades Council. Such deductions will be made from the same pay period as the deduction of the Union initiation fee, and thereafter, on an annual basis, from the second pay period in January. Further, from a list supplied by the Union, dues will be deducted from the pay of employees who were not deducted in January and be remitted to the appropriate Local Union together with a list of the employees so deducted in conjunction with regular membership dues.
The Union shall Indemnify and hold harmless the Corporation against any and all liability which may arise by reason of the check-off by the Corporation of the Canadian Skilled Trades Council dues in accordance with this Agreement.
(k)	-Apprentices
Matters pertaining to apprentices in training to become jour-neymen/wonten are contained in a Supplemental Agreement.
(l)	— Wage Rate Application
A. journeyman/woman working in a skilled trades classification in which the journeyman/woman has acquired the right to exercise seniority shall receive the maximum rate of that classification.
(rn) — Painting of Floor Lines
Skilled Trades painters will, upon ratification of the Agreement, be assigned to paint floor lines as required.
(n)	— Purchase of New Equipment 91
During the course of the 1990 negotiations the parties discussed the propriety of purchasing new equipment at the Corporation’s plants. Management advised that when necessary, obsolete equipment will be replaced and new equipment will be purchased, both on a progressive basis.
(o)	— In-Plant Training
In response to your inquiry, Chrysler Canada Ltd. conducts training in electronics, hydraulics, mathematics, etc., from time to time in plants where there is an apparent need to perform work for which the employees’ past experience and training in their trades has been inadequate. Chrysler is cognizant of the continuing need for such training arising from the introduction of new tools, equipment, procedures and processes and plans tocontinue to conduct training to an increasing extent to meet such needs.
(p)	-Training Bonus -Temporary Layoff
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section (19), Related Training of the Supplemental Agreement — Special Provisions Pertaining to Apprentices with respect to affected employees while on temporary layoff, it is agreed that effective October 29, 1979 a temporarily laid off apprentice, journeyman/woman or temporary employee in the skilled trades will be paid a training bonus in recognition of satisfactory completion of any related training courses required pursuant to the Supplemental Agreement-. Special Provisions Pertaining to Skilled Trades Employees, or such ‘other courses that may be designated by the Corporation such as the Industrial Electronics Training Program, for each week the employee attends class while on temporary layoff as specified below.
An employee earns the training bonus by attending the specified training courses while on temporary layoff and satisfactorily completing the applicable training courses in which the employee was enrolled at the time of temporary layoff.
92
The amount of each week’s bonus is calculated by multiply.. ing the employee’s straight-time hourly rate on the last day worked exclusive of shift and overtime premiums but including cost-of-living allowance then in effect by:
(1)	The number of hours, not to exceed four (4), the employee attends class during a week for which an employee receives a Supplemental Unemployment Benefit; or
(2)	The actual number of hours the employee attends class during a week for which an employee does not receive a Supplemental Unemployment Benefit.
The total training bonus will be an amount equal to the sum of the training bonus for each week the employee may earn it. It will be paid to the employee within a reasonable period of time after the employee has been recalled and reported back to work or within a reasonable period of time after the employee has satisfactorily completed the applicable training courses, whichever is later.
Section (19) of the Supplemental Agreement — Special Provisions Pertaining to Apprentices will continue to be applied as in the past with respect to affected employees while on the active roll.
(q)	— Metric Tools
During negotiations of the Collective Bargaining Agreement dated today, the parties discussed the subject of conversion to the metric system and its effect on certain employee owned tools.
During these discussions the Corporation indicated its intention to make available during the transition period necessary metric tools and calibrated measuring instruments to skilled trades employees when required in the performance of their work. Such tools will be available in the tool cribs and charged out to skilled trades employees when they have need for them.
93
This policy does not preclude the use of conversion tables or any other alternate means of changing to the metric system in place of utilizing such tools or calibrated measuring instruments, nor does it alter the present requirement that skilled trades employees provide their own tools necessary to perform their duties, except as provided in the second paragraph hereof.
(r)	-Training --New Technology, Methods or Processes
In addition to the familiarization normally provided when they are assigned different types of work, skilled trades employees will be provided the necessary training due to the introduction of new technology, methods or processes, as it affects their classifications.
(9)	Skilled Trades Representatives
(a)	— On any shift in a plant where there are fifteen (15) or more employees in skilled trades classifications and there is no skilled trades Steward, the Local Union may designate in writing a skilled trades employee from among those working on that shift as the Skilled Trades Representative (as distinguished from a Steward) for such employees.
(b)	— The function of the Skilled Trades Representative shall be limited to dealing with such matters as may arise on the Skilled Trades Representative’s shift alleging violation of the Supplemental Agreement — Special Provisions Pertaining to Skilled Trades Employees and letters relating thereto.
(c)	— Except as provided in this section the Skilled Trades Representative shall not be treated as a Steward for any purpose under any Section of the Production and Maintenance Agreement.
(10)	Temporary Employees in Skilled Trades Classifications
(a)	— The parties recognize that it is more desirable to secure journeymen/women by hiring and by training through
94
established apprentice training programs, and while these sources are the preferred means of securing qualified journey men/women, they do not at all times meet the needs of the Corporation. Until such time as the preferred sources meet the Corporation’s needs, it will be necessary to transfer and promote employees into skilled trades classifications who do not. at the time of transfer or promotion, have the experience and qualifications of a journeyman/woman but have worked in an appropriate skilled trade.
(b)	-Temporary employees shall be listed by classification in the order of their transfer or promotion into the department on a list of temporary skilled trades employees and shall be laid off, or returned to their regular departments, and returned or recalled to their skilled trades classification in the departments according to their position on the list of temporary employees. At such time as it is determined that a temporary employee is unable to perform satisfactorily the work required in the skilled trade classification, the temporary employee shall be so advised and the temporary employee’s name shall be removed from the list of temporary employees. While in the status of a temporary employee, the employee shall retain and accumulate seniority in the employee’s regular department. Temporary employees shall not be retained or recalled in line with their position on the list of temporary employees if they are unable to perform satisfactorily the work that is available.
(c)	— A temporary employee in the skilled trades transferred or promoted after the effective date of this Agreement shall be paid in accordance with the following provisions. The employee shall be paid a starting rate equal to nine percent (9%) less than the minimum rate of the classification and shall receive an in-creaseequal to one and one half percent (1-1/2%) of the minimum rate of the classification on the completion of six (6), twelve (12), eighteen (18), twenty-four (24) and thirty (30) months served in the classification. Upon the completion of thirty-six (36) months served in the classification, the employee shall be paid the mini-
93
mum rate of the classification. These increases shall be effective the beginning of the first pay period following the completion of each of the specified six (6) month periods served in the classification. Temporary employees shall not receive a rate above the mid-point of ihe rate range of their classifications.
(d)	— In the event the Company is unable to fill vacancies from either within the plant or by hiring, the matter may be reviewed with the Union.
(e)	— During model change or major plant rearrangement, production employees may be temporarily assigned to assist skilled trades employees. Such production employees will not be listed as temporary employees in the skilled trades department and will not be credited with skilled trades seniority for any purpose. Rather, they shall retain and accumulate seniority in their production department. If such a production employee is later promoted or transferred to the same skilled trades classification which the production employee was temporarily assigned to assist the production employee shall receive credit for the time worked while so assigned for the purpose of acquiring the right to exercise seniority in that skilled trades classification.
(11)	Outside Contractors
(a)	•— It is the policy of the Corporation to fully utilize its own employees in maintenance skilled trades classifications in the performance of maintenance and construction work, as set forth in the Agreement.
In all cases, except where time and circumstances prevent it, the Corporation will notify the Union in writing prior to letting a contract for the performance of maintenance and construction work in order to afford the Union an opportunity to hold advance discussion of the matter before the contract is let. In this discussion, the Corporation is expected to review its plans or prospects for letting a particular contract. The Union should be advised of the nature, scope and approximate dates of the work to be performed and the reasons (equipment,employment level, etc.) why
96
the Corporation is contemplating contracting out the work. At
such times, the Corporation is expected to afford the Union an opportunity to comment on the Corporation’s plans and to give weight to those comments in the light of all attendant circumstances.
(b)	— Discussion of Outside Contract
When discussions are held, in accordance with the provisions of Section (1 1) (a) Supplemental Agreement — Skilled Trades and Section (12) Supplemental Agreement — Skilled Trades, the Supervisorof Plant Engineering may be accompanied by the Superintendent of Maintenance or other personnel familiar with the work involved.
(c)	— Notice of Outside Contract
The following memo will be distributed to all Plant Engineering personnel issuing notices of outside contracting work:
“During our recent negotiations there were lengthy discussions in the quality and detail disclosed on the notice of outside contracting form.
‘To resolve the matter we agreed to advise the responsible areas in the plants, of these complaints and suggest that more definite information be included so that the Union Representatives would be able to identify the work to be performed. The above would be beneficial to both parties as some meetings presently requested could be avoided because the additional in formation would meet the Union’s needs.”
(d)	-Service Contracts and Warranty Arrangements
Advance written notification for the letting of skilled trades service contracts. and vendor warranty arrangements will be given to the Union.
The parties will meet periodically to discuss such service contracts and warranty arrangements.
97
(e)	— Use of Outside Contractors While Employees are on Layoff
During recent negotiations the Union expressed concern regarding the use of contractors while Skilled Trades Employees are on layoff.
As indicated in those sections of the Production Maintenance Agreement dealing with the subject of outside contracting, the Corporation will endeavour to maximize work opportunities for its Skilled Trades Employees.
Discussions on contracting, prior to any layoff or contemplated layoffs, will give full consideration to maintaining future work in house.
(12)	Maintenance Contracting
This Section is intended to clarify the intent of Section (11)
(a)	of the Supplemental Agreement pertaining to Skilled Trades Employees.
(a)	It is the policy of Chrysler Canada Ltd. to perform maintenance work with its own employees, provided it has the employees, skills, equipment and facilities to do so and can do the work competitively in quality, cost and performance and within the projected time limits. At times the Corporation does not deem advisable doing the work itself, and it must, as in the past, reserve to itself the right to decide whether it will do any particular work or let the work to outside contractors. This Section is not to be regarded as impairing that right in any way.
(b)	The Corporation hereby assures the Union that it has no plans to change its policy and that it expects to continue its general operating policy of placing primary reliance on its own skilled trades employees to perform maintenance work to the extent consistent with sound business practice, as in the past.
(c)	The Corporation is genuinely interested in maintaining maximum employment opportunities for its skilled trades em-
98
ployees consistent with the needs of the Corporation. Therefore, in making these determinations, the Corporation intends always to keep the interests of Chrysler personnel in mind.
(d)	In applying the provisions of Section (11) of the Supplemental Agreement—Special Provisions Pertaining toSkilledTrades Employees it is our intention that, except where time and circumstances prevent it, any “advancediscussion”held in accordance with those provisions take place before any final decision has been made as to whether the work should be contracted out.
(e)	In those cases when the work to be performed is not started by the contractor within ninety (90) days following the approximate starting date given to the Union pursuant to Section (11) (a), and the Union believes the circumstances in the plant have changed sufficiently to warrant review of the initial decision to let the contract, the Union, upon request, will be given an opportunity to comment on the changed circumstances. To the extent practicable, the Corporation will give weight to such comments,
It is important that the Corporation advise the Union of any or all of the factors mentioned in the above provisions which it will take into consideration in determining whether a particulai contract should be let out or not. Such advice will be given in the course of the “advance discussion” so that the Union will be given a better opportunity to make its comments and the Corporation will also be given an opportunity “to give weight to those comments in the tight of all attendant circumstances.”
(13)	Consideration and Advance Discussion!;
When a stamping or assembly plant is contemplating a decision to let to an outside source die or major jig and fixture work, the Plant Management wilt hold advance discussions with the Local Union concerning the nature, scope and approximate dates of the work to be performed and, based upon the considerations set forth in Section (14) Supplemental Agreement — Skilled Trades, as well as the magnitude of the construction
99
program, the timing, of each phase of the program, the availability of facilities, specialized equipment and necessary skills within the work force, the complicating effect of design modifications and bottleneck operations such as machining limitations and the unavailability of presses to perform necessary tryout work, the efficiencies and economics involved, and the need to maintain a reliable supply base in view of the fluctuations and uncertainties of the die, jig and fixture construction business, will review with the Union why the decision to let the work is contemplated. The Plant Management will take into consideration and afford due weight to any relevant information furnished by the Union before making its final decision.
A Plant Management decision to utilize an outside source for such work should consider, in addition to all the above relevant considerations, any adverse employment impact on the plant’s journeymen/women in the affected skilled trades classifications who are laid off or would be laid off as a direct result of the decision. In making a final decision, the Corporation will not act arbitrarily or capriciously in disregard of the legitimate interests of Chrysler employees.
(14)	Tool and Die Contracting
You havediscussed with us at great length the possible effect on our skilled tool and die and model employees of decisions of the Corporation to buy some of its tools, dies, and models, rather than make them.
As we have pointed out to you in current negotiations, there are many and varied factors that may influence any particular decision to make or buy. We do not believe it is feasible to list general criteria. However, the Union has stated in our discussions that it recognizes a number of them, such as the need, among other things, to contract work that requires specialized tools and equipment and special skills and the necessity of meeting production schedules, model changes and re-arrangement deadlines.
100
In view of the foregoing, we have advised you that the Corporation cannot agree to any limitation or restriction on its right and responsibility to decide whether to make tools, dies, and models, or to buy them. However, we wish to make it clear to you that it is our policy, in making such decisions, to give proper consideration to the operating needs of the business, the efficiencies and economics involved and all other relevant considerations, including the effect of the decisions on work opportunities of tool, die and model employees.
Where the Corporation considers that work practices or provisions of local agreements in its Tool, Die and Model Departments may be having an adverse effect on the Corporation’s ability to compete in this field effectively, it will discuss such matters on a timely basis with the Local Union and explore with it fully the possibilities of taking practical steps with respect to such matters to the end of improving the employment opportunities of such employees. The Skilled Trades Representative of the Corporation is also willing to meet from time-to-time with the Skilled Trades Representative of the National Union to discuss, and provide information relative to plans the Corporation is formulating and decisions it is contemplating concerning tool and die contracting on a corporate-wide basis. A representative of an affected plant is willing to meet from time-to-time with the Skilled Trades Committeeperson at the plant to discuss, and provide information relative to plans the plant is formulating and decisions it is contemplating concerning tool and die contracting by the plant.
(15)	Tool and Die Contracting in General Manufacturing Division and Engine and Casting Division Plants
In our negotiations leading to the Production and Maintenance Agreement dated December 11,1982 we discussed in great detail tool and die contracting by the Corporation, some aspects of which are the subject of Section (I 4) Supplemental Agreement — Skilled Trades, Tool and Die Contracting. In the course of
101
these discussions we reiterated that the Corporation cannot agree to any limitation or restriction on its right and responsibility to decide whether to make tools, dies, models, jigs or fixtures or to buy them.
We assure you, however, that when Journeymen/women skilled trades employees in the toolmaking trades, including machine repair where applicable, of a plant of the General Manufacturing and Engine and Casting Divisions are on layoff for any reason or become laid off as a result of the plant’s contracting out work involving the fabrication, maintenance or repair of tools and dies, and of the kind normally performed by such skilled trades employees in the plant, the Skilled Trades Representative of the Corporation, on request, will meet with the Skilled Trades Representative of the National Union to discuss, and provide information relative to, plans the Corporation is Formulating and decisions it is contemplating concerning such contracting. Agood faith effort will be extended by the parties to find solution to the problems discussed in these meetings.
(16)	Special Procedure — Skilled Trades Work Assignment Disputes
(a)	The skilled trades representative in a plant may request the Plant Labour Relations Supervisor to arrange a special conference to hear the Union’s views concerning the work assignments of skilled trades employees.
(b)	Attendance at such special conference will be limited to the skilled trades representatives of the plant. A representative of the Local Union may attend. Plant Labour Relations and a senior representative of Manufacturing Engineering will also attend. A Staff Labour Relations Representative may also attend.
(c)	A written disposition will be made available on resolved issues.
(d)	If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved and the matter involves the appropriateness of work assignments of employees
102
in skilled trades classifications, the Union may reduce the matter
to writing in the form of a grievance and present the grievance to the Labour Relations Supervisor. Within five (5) days after receiving the grievance, a written answer will be given setting forth Management’s position with respect to the disputed work involved.
(e)	The Local Union may, within ten (10) days after receiving such answer, forward the grievance together with Management’s answer to the National Union. If in its judgement the matter warrants appeal, the National Union may within twenty (20) days after receiving the grievance and answer, appeal the matter to the Manager of Hourly Labour Relations by requesting a special meeting.
(f)	Such meeting will be attended by the skilled trades representatives involved, a representative of the Local Union and a representative of the National Union. The Plant Personnel Manager and the Manager of Manufacturing Engineering, or their designated representatives will also attend.
(g)	If they are unable to satisfactorily resolve the matter within one (1) month of the date of the special meeting, the grievance may be appealed to the Appeal Board, as provided in Section 22 (a).
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT
Provisions Pertaining to Apprentices
(D The following provisions relating to Apprenticeship and Apprentice Standards supplement the provisions of the Production and Maintenance Agreement applicable to apprentices. The following Sections of the Production and Maintenance Agreement shall not apply to apprentices; (46), (53), and (59).
103
(2)	Purpose
The purpose of the apprentice program is to train individuals in such skilled trades as may be desirable. The object of this training is to provide Chrysler Canada Ltd. with skilled joumey-men/women who are thoroughly versed in methods used in its plants, and provide training for individuals in their chosen trade.
(3)	Apprentice Qualifications
Apprentices shall be selected for this training course in accordance with the Uniform Apprenticeship Application and Selection Procedure and:
(a)	— Shall be at least age eighteen (18).
(b)	— All applicants must meet the regular employment requirements of all hourly employees determined by the Corporation including the physical requirements for the applicable trade and satisfactorily pass the Uniform Apprenticeship Application and Selection Procedure tests given by the Personnel Department. In the event the qualifications of applicants are equal in all other respects, preference shall be given applicants who are seniority employees of the Corporation. The minimum educational requirement shall be Grade XII or its equivalent.
(c)	— Selection of Apprentices under the Program shall be made from qualified applicants in accordance with the Uniform Apprentice Application and Selection Procedure on the basis of qualifications alone and without regard to race, religion, colour, national origin or sex;
(d)	— The acceptance or rejection of applications for apprenticeship shall be governed by the standards established herein and shall not be subject to review through the grievance procedure.
(4)	Applications
Applications for apprenticeship training shall be received by the Hourly Employment Department from individuals who
104
wish to prepare for their future as skilled journeymen/women through apprenticeship training. A copy of all applications for apprenticeship shall be sent to the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee.
(5)	Apprenticeship Agreements
Apprentices shall be entered into the program by separate apprenticeship agreements between the apprentice, the Corporation and the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee. A copy of each Apprenticeship Agreement will be furnished to the Corporation and to the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee. Each Apprenticeship Agreement will be registered with the Ontario Ministry of Skills Development Apprenticeship Branch.
(6)	Supervision of Apprentices
Apprentices shall be under the direction of the Human Resourses Department. Qualified personnel shall be charged with responsibility of coordinating the apprenticeship program so that a systematic procedure will be followed throughout the training period. In plants in which apprentices are employed the Corporation will designate an Apprentice Coordinator who will supervise the apprentice program in the plant.
(7)	Discipline
An apprentice may be disciplined for such causes as inability to learn, unsatisfactory work, inability to perform or othei causes related to the apprenticeship. An apprentice may be placed on probation or the apprenticeship may be cancelled or tenni-nated and the apprentice dismissed for such causes. Any disciplinary layoff given an apprentice or any cancellation or termination of an apprentice’s apprenticeship for causes related to the apprentice’s apprenticeship may be reviewed as specified in Seel ions (14) and (15) of this Supplemental Agreement.
105
(8)	Resignation
The apprentice shall have the right to terminate participation in the apprenticeship at any time upon three days’ notice in writing to the Hourly Employment Department and to the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee.
(9)	Wage Rates
(a)	— Apprentices hired on and after the effective date of this Agreement in each of the trades covered by these standards shall be paid a progressively increasing schedule of wages as follows:
1st 1000 hours -wage rate.
2nd 1000 hours wage rate.
3rd 1000 hours wage rate.
4th 1000 hours wage rate.
5th 1000 hours wage rate.
6th 1000 hours wage rate.
7th 1000 hours wage rate.
8th 1000 hours wage rate.
9th 1000 hours wage rate.
10 th 1000 hours wage rate.
(b)	— Seniority employees who enter into apprenticeship on and after the effective date of this Agreement shall be paid the rate of the classification they held immediately prior to entering into apprenticeship or a rate equal to the sum of the maximum
106
65% of the trade classification midpoint 70% of the trade classification midpoint 75% of the trade classification midpoint 80% of the trade classification midpoint 85% of the trade classification midpoint 90% of the trade classification midpoint 95% of the trade classification midpoint 95% of the trade classification midpoint 95% of the trade classification midpoint - 95% of the trade classification midpoint
rate of the Assembler-Major Classification plus nine cents (90) whichever is lower, provided, however, that in no event will the starting rate be lower than a rate equal to the maximum rate of the Assembler-Major Classification minus twenty cents (200). New apprentices shall be paid that rate until the beginning of the first pay period following the pay period in which they would be entitled to a higher rate according to the schedule in Subsection
(a)	above. Thereafter, they shall be paid according to the schedule in Subsection (a) above.
(c)	— Apprentices on course on and after September 19, 1988 but prior to the effective date of this Agreement in each of the trades covered by these standards shall be paid a progressively increasing schedule of wages as follows:
1st 1000 hours — 65% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus fifty-eight cents (580) per hour.
2nd 1000 hours — 70% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus fifty cents (500) per hour.
3rd 1000 hours — 75% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus forty-two cents (420) per hour.
4th 1000 hours — 80% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus thirty-three cents (330) per hour.
5th 1000 hours — 85% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus twenty-five cents (250) per hour.
6th 1000 hours — 90% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus seventeen cents (170) per hour.
7th 1000 hours — 95% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus eight cents (80) per hour.
8th 1000 hours — 95% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus eight cents (80) per hour.
9th 1000 hours — 95% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus eight cents (80) per hour.
10th 1000 hours — 95% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus eight cents (80) per hour.
(d)	— Apprentices on course on or after September 19,1988 but prior to the effective date of this Agreement who are receiving
107
the rate of the classification they held immediately prior to entering into apprenticeship shall be paid the rate of the classification they held immediately prior to entering into apprenticeship or at a rate equal to the sum of the maximum rate of the Assembler-Major classification plus nine cents (90), whichever is lower provided, however, that in no event will the rate be lower than a rate equal to the maximum rate of the Assembler-Major classification minus twenty cents (200) until the beginning of the first pay period following the pay period in which they would be entitled to a higher rate according to the schedule in Subsection (c) above. Thereafter, they shall be paid according to the schedule in Subsection (e) above.
(e)	— Apprentices on course on and after September 21, 1987 but prior to September 19, 1988 in each of the trades covered by these standards shall be paid a progressively increasing schedule of wages as follows:
1st 1000 hours — 65% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus eighty-four cents (840) per hour.
2nd 1000 hours — 70% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus seventy-two cents (720) per hour.
3rd 1000 hours — 75% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus sixty-one cents (6 10) per hour,
4th 1000 hours — 80% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus forty-eight cents (480) per hour.
5th 1000 hours — 85% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus thirty-six cents (360) per hour.
6th 1000 hours — 90% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus twenty-four cents (240) per hour.
7th 1000 hours — 95% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus twelve cents (120) per hour.
8th 1000 hours — 95% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus twelve cents (120) per hour.
9th 1000 hours — 95% of the trade classification midpoint wage rate plus twelve cents (120) per hour.
108
1 Oth 1000 hours — 95% of I he trade classification midpoint wage rate plus twelve cents (12(J) per hour.
(f)	— Apprentices on course on or after September 2 1,1987 but prior to September 19,1988 who are receiving the rate of the classification they held immediately prior to entering into apprenticeship shall be paid the rate of the classification they held immediately prior to entering into apprenticeship or at a rate equal io the sum of the maximum rate of the Assembler-Major classification plus nine cents (9(!), whichever is lower provided, however, that in no event will the rate be lower than a rate equal to the maximum rate of the Assembler-Major classification minus twenty cents (200) until the beginning of the first pay period following the pay period in which they would be entitled to a higher rate according to the schedule in Subsection (e) above. Thereafter, they shall be paid according to the schedule in Subsection (e) above.
(10)	Tools
The apprentice shall be required to obtain the tools, books, supplies and equipment necessary for the training. As soon as practicable after being placed in the apprentice program an apprentice will receive a tool allowance of $125.00 and a like amount at the end of the first period of 1000 hours of apprentice training and $ 100.00 at the end of the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh periods of 1000 hours of apprentice training and the final payment of $ 150.00 upon completion of the apprentice program as reimbursement for the cost of these tools.
Apprentices presently in the program and apprentices who enter apprenticeship with evaluated credit for prior experience and training shall receive a tool allowance thereafter in accordance with the above payment schedule.
(11)	Certificate
Upon the satisfactory completion of the term of apprenticeship the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee shall recommend
109
to the Ontario Ministry of Skills Development Apprenticeship Branch that a certificate signifying the satisfactory completion of the term of apprenticeship be issued to the apprentice.
(12)	Seniority
Upon satisfactoiy completion of the term of apprenticeship, the graduate apprentice shall immediately become a joumey-man/woman and shall be given a seniority date which shall reflect six (6) months seniority for each 1000 hours in the Schedule of Working Processes in the graduate apprentice’s trade, but in no event shall a graduate apprentice be given a seniority date earlier than the date set forth in the Apprentice Agreement as the date the graduate apprentice’s apprenticeship began. Apprentices indentured subsequent to October 20,1985 who, through no fault of their own, are delayed in commencing their apprenticeship, shall be given a starting date identical to their original assigned date.
Time spent during the apprenticeship on approved leave of absence, vacation leave, jury duty, annual military encampments as well as excused paid absence allowance days, bereavement days, layoffs of a temporary nature and holidays for which the employee has received pay from the Corporation will also be credited toward seniority upon graduation.
If it is necessary to curtail the number of apprentices in a given trade, the reduction shall be made on the basis of the last hired being the first released, so that the required ratio of apprentices to journeyman/woman is maintained. In the event a conflict arises because of two apprentices being hired on the same day, the apprentice with the greatest portion of the apprenticeship completed shall be retained.
An apprentice whose apprenticeship is interrupted for a continuous period of layoff equal to the apprentice’s seniority or time spent in the apprentice program at the time of such layoff, whichever is longer, shall lose status as an apprentice.
110
An employee having seniority in the plant who enters the
apprentice training program as provided in Section (3) (b) shall, during the period of this apprenticeship retain and accumulate seniority and if laid off or dismissed from or terminates participation in the apprentice training program, the employee shall be returned to the employee’s former department in the plant according to the employee’s seniority in it.
The application of the following paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section (12) will be limited to plants in the Windsor area:
(a)	— An apprentice whose apprenticeship in one plant is interrupted by an indefinite period of unemployment from the apprenticeship program will be re-employed in another plant of the Corporation in the area participating in this apprentice program before new apprentices are hired in the apprentice’s trade in such other plant, and there continue the apprenticeship to its completion. The apprentice’s ranking among apprentices in the new plant shall be the apprentice’s date of hiring into the apprentice program.
(b)	— An apprentice, upon the achievement of joumey-man/woman status, will be placed by the Hourly Employment Department in accordance with the following procedure:
1.	An apprentice will be placed on the open permanent job, defined in Paragraph (13) of the Special Provisions Pertaining to Windsor Area Plants, not subject to a base plant claim, represented by the oldest active plant-wide posting as recorded by the Hourly Employment Department.
2.	Under unusual circumstances and after discussions have been held between members of the Hourly Labour Relations Department and Hourly Employment Department Staffs and the Windsor Area Skilled Trades Chairperson, the foregoing may be deviated from. Such deviation will only be considered when the immediate operating requirements of one of the plants would be adversely affected by not placing the graduating apprentice at that plant.
111
3.	In the event that there is not an open permanent job available at the time of an apprentice’s graduation, the graduating apprentice shall displace the employee with the least seniority in the trade or trade group, seniority permitting.
(13)	Ratio of Apprentices to Journeymen/women
The ratio of apprentices in training in a trade shall not be more than one (1) apprentice to eight (8) journeymen/women unless otherwise approved by the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee.
When a reduction in force occurs in a trade where apprentices are employed, apprentices first shall be laid off until the ratio of apprentices to journeymen/women shall be one (1) to eight (8). Thereafter, apprentices shall be laid off proportionately to retain such ratio, provided, however, that a minimum of one (1) apprentice may be retained in each trade.
When an increase in force occurs in a trade where apprentices were employed, apprentices shall be recalled at the ratio of one (1) to eight (8) before a new employee who possesses the qualifications of a journeyman/woman is hired.
In the event the Corporation plans to build or acquire a new plant or facility the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee may agree to increase the ratio of apprentices to journeymen/women in any trade in order to meet the anticipated demand for skilled tradespersons in such plant, provided, however, that it may not so increase the ratio of apprentices in any plant in which joumey-men/women in the trade are laid off for lack of work.
(14)	Local Apprentice Committee
(a) — In those plants where apprentices subject to this Agreement areemployed. there shall be a Local Apprentice Committee composed of an Apprentice Representative who shall be a journeyman/woman in an apprenticeable skilled trades classification appointed by the Union and an Apprentice Coordinatoi
appointed by the Corporation. The functions and duties of the Local Apprentice Committee shall be as follows:
1.	To confer with new apprentices for the purpose of acquainting the apprentice with the role of the Corporation, the Union and the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee in the Apprentice Program and to ascertain that the apprentice understands the status and obligations as an apprentice.
2.	To review every thirty (30) days and, where necessary, on a more frequent basis the training and progress and work schedule of individual apprentices.
3.	To confer on problems raised by apprentices.
4.	To confer with apprentices where it appears that the apprentice is failing to perform the obligation as an apprentice. The Local Apprentice Committee may limit the hours ofovertime work of an apprentice where excessive work schedules interfere with the apprentice’s related training.
5.	To make recommendations to the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee with respect to the disciplinary layoff of an aft-prentice or the cancellation or termination of an apprentice’s apprenticeship for causes related to the apprenticeship.
6.	To discuss the application of the terms of this Supplemental Agreement and matters connected with the continued improvement of the Apprentice Program.
(b) — Any situation which may arise that cannot be satisfactorily resolved by the Local Apprentice Committee shall be referred to the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee
(15) Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee
(a)	— A Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee shall be established of three (3) members appointed by the Union and three (3) members appointed by the Corporation.
(b)	— The duties of the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Comtuit-tee shall be as follows:
113
1.	To adopt procedures for the timely and orderly conduct of its business.
2.	To establish a Uniform Apprentice Application and Selection Procedure, including apprenticeship tests, interview form, and criteria for the evaluation of seniority and prior training. Exceptions to the Uniform Apprentice Application and Selection Procedure may be made by the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee for qualified applicants who possess unusual qualifications.
3.	To evaluate and select apprentices to be placed on course from qualified applicants.
4.	To deal with matters concerning the application of the terms of this Supplemental Agreement.
5.	To study the effects of the employment of apprentices on the employment of journeymen/women in the trades involved and other matters that may involve the training of apprentices by journeymen/women in the shop.
6.	To receive regular and special reports regarding apprentice training, including the number and distribution of apprentices.
7.	To approve the issuance of certificates of graduation.
8.	To review and endeavor to resolve cases involving the disciplinary layoff of an apprentice or the cancellation or termination of an apprentice’s apprenticeship for causes related to this apprenticeship.
9.	To take appropriate action on a matter referred to the Committee by a Local Apprentice Committee pursuant to Section (14) of this Supplemental Agreement.
10.	To discuss and recommend changes in the Schedule of Work Processes, including the related training, of the Apprentice Program and to recommend such schedules for future trades. The
114
Corporation and the National Union may adopt and agree to such recommendations.
11.	To issue periodic reports to the parties hereto on the operation of the program and to discuss and recommend changes in this Supplemental Agreement which may be negotiated at the proper time.
(c)	— Matters not resolved by the Committee may be referred to the Impartial Chairperson.
APPRENITICE STANDARDS
(16)	Length of Training Program
(a)	— Apprentice courses are set forth in Section (I 8), Shop Schedules. The number of hours required for graduation varies somewhat between different trades. Satisfactory completion of the related training courses and of the total number of hours specified for each trade shall be required for graduation.
(b)	— All overtime actually worked during any term period shall be counted as hours worked and applied against the period total.
(17)	Prior Training
An apprentice who (l) has had prior training in a recognized apprentice training program, or (2) a Chryslerseniority employee who desires to enter the apprentice training program, or (3) an apprentice who, has had military service will have such training and experience evaluated in accordance with the standards established by the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee.
(18)	Shop Schedules
The apprentice shall serve through a series of operations as indicated in the shop schedule. This Schedule, which is included in Appendix (I), is set up as a guide and if apprentices are employed in a trade for which a schedule of work processes is
M5
specifically set forth in the aforementioned Appendix, the schedule of work processes shall be adhered to unless local conditions and/or progress of the apprentice requires rearrangement in which case the Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee may make such rearrangement. The Corporation and the National Union may agree to revise Appendix (1) or agree to Schedules of Work Processes for other classifications,
(19)	Related Training
The Corporation shall provide the required related training set forth in the Schedule of Work Processes during the apprenticeship. Apprentices shall be paid at their regular hourly or salary rates for actual school attendance, except for repeated courses, provided, however, the total number of class hours for which an apprentice shall be compensated shall not exceed the required number of hours required in the Schedule of Work Processes.
Time spent in actual school attendance by apprentices who enter into Apprenticeship Agreements on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall not be subject to overtime or premium pay under Sections (64) and (63) of the Production and Maintenance Agreement and corresponding sections of other agreements, and such time shall not lie considered as time worked in computing overtime or premium pay as defined in such sections or as work performed for the Corporation under the SUB Plan.
(20)	Technical Training Facilities
The management may, if it so desires, use the facilities of the Technical Training Department in giving to apprentices under this Agreement the classroom work provided in the Schedule of Work Processes. Journeymen/women in the following classifications shall be counted in determining the number of apprentices in a given department who will be in training in a particular trade:
Tool Making
Toolmaker Leader
Toolmaker
116
Toolmaker — Tool and Gauge Inspector Layout — Metal and Wood Machine Operator —Tool, Die & Maintenance Grinder -Tool Room Die Maker -- Die Cast
Machine Operator —Tool, Die & Maintenance Grinder -Tool Room Electrical
Electrician Leader Electrician Millwright
Millwright Leader Millwright
Pipefitter — Plumber Pipefitter Leader Pipefitter
Sheet Metal and Tinsmith
Sheet Metal Worker Leader Sheet Metal Worker Machine Repair
Machine Repair Leader Machine Repair
Machine Operator —Tool, Die & Maintenance Grinder -Tool Room Toolmaking — Jig & Fixture Building
Tool Maker -- Jig and Fixture Builder -- Leader Tool Maker -- Jig and Fixture Builder Machine Operator —Tool, Die & Maintenance Grinder-Tool Room Metal Pattern Making Machine Operator--Tool, Die & Maintenance
(21)	Registration and Duration of Apprenticeships
The National Apprenticeship Committee will review what steps ae necessary to register and establish the hours necessary to qualify as Electrician Const/Maint. Any other trades so affected will be reviewed on the same basis.
117
(22)	Revision to Appendix I
Appendix I, Apprenticeship and Apprenticeship Standards ■ ■ will be revised by the Chrysler-CAW National Apprentice Committee following the conclusion of negotiations.
Such revision will (a) list the Canadian Apprenticeable and non-Apprenticeable Skilled Trades classifications, as provided in Section (5) List of Skilled Trades Classifications-Special Provisions Pertaining to Skilled Trades Employees, and (b) detail the Schedule of Work Processes for these Apprenticeable and non-Apprenticeable Skilled Trades Classifications.
APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT
This Agreement, made in triplicate, this ..... date
of	,19 between Chrysler Canada Ltd., the
Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee established under the
terms of the Chrysler-CAW Agreement, and...............
residing at..................hereinafter referred to as the
Apprentice:
WITNESSETH:
Chrysler Canada Ltd,
agrees to engage ................. as an apprentice to learn the
trade of......................................................in
accordance with the terms of the Supplemental Agreement Apprenticeship and Apprentice Standards as set forth in the Chrysler-CAW Agreement.
The apprentice agrees to diligently perform the work of this trade and the related training and to be governed by the terms of the Supplemental Agreement-Apprenticeship and Apprentice Standards; to confonn to and obey the rules and regulations of Chrysler Canada Ltd. and to keep all trade and business secrets of Chrysler Canada Ltd.
118
‘The term of apprenticeship, and the processes, methods, 01 plans to be taught shall be as set forth or referred to in the Supplemental Agreement-Apprenticeship and Apprentice Standards which, by this reference, are made a part of this Apprenticeship Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF: The parties have caused this Agreement to be signed.
Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee National Union, (CAW)
Chrysler-CAW Apprentice Committee Chrysler Canada Ltd.
Apprentice
119
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING HEALTH AND SAFETY
This Memorandum of Understanding supplements the Production and Maintenance Agreement between Chrysler Canada Ltd. and the National Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada), and certain of its Local Unions, as follows:
WHEREAS, no subject is of greater concern to the Corporation and the Union than the physical well-being of employees in Chrysler’s plants, and in our recent negotiations no subject received or deserved a higher priority than promoting safe and healthful working conditions in the plants; and
WHEREAS, the parties agree that an on-going program, in which both will participate and cooperate, will aid in achieving this objective,
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:
A Local Joint Committee on Health and Safety, hereinafter referred to as the Local Committee, will be established in each plant, consisting of two (2) representatives appointed by the Plant Management and two (2) representatives appointed by the President, National Union, CAW. The two members from the Union will be the two Health and Safety Representatives in those locations which have two Health and Safety Representatives. In those locations which have one representative, the second member of the committee will be the alternate Health and Safety Representative. The maximum number of hours per week in which the Union Health and Safety Representative of each Local Committee will be allowed to function shall be determined on the basis of the number of hourly employees in the plant in accordance with the following schedule unless otherwise agreed to:
120
Number of Employees
Hours Per Week
1001 or more 601 to 1000 251 to 600
Less Than 251
40
24
16
8
Adjustments with respect to the maximum number of hours each Union Health and Safety Representative will be allowed to function shall be made twice each calendar year, (1) effective the second pay period in May, based on the number of hourly employees on the active roll in the plant on the third Wednesday of the preceding month of April, and (2) effective the second pay period in November, based on the number of hourly employees on the active roll in the plant on the third Wednesday of the preceding month of October. The President, National Union, CAW shall advise the Corporate LabourRelations Staff in writing of the names of these appointees and the plant in which each is assigned. No Union member of a Local Committeeshall function as such until the Corporation is so advised. The Union members of the Local Committee shall serve an indefinite term and shall be replaced only with the concurrence of the National Joint Committee on Health and Safety as hereinafter provided for. The Union members will receive training as outlined hereinafter, without cost to said Union member. The Local Committee shall:
(a)	— Meet at least once each month or may meet weekly at a mutually agreeable time and place to review health and safety conditions within the plant and make recommendations in this regard as they deem necessary or desirable. A summary list of items discussed shall be provided to the Union members of the Local Committee.
The Health and Safety Representative shall:
(a)	— Make weekly systematic inspections of the plant, as provided hereinafter, to assure that there is a safe, healthful and sanitary working environment in each plant.
121
(b)	— Accompany Governmental Health and Safety inspectors and National Union Health and Safety professionals on plant inspection tours. Also accompany Corporate Health and Safety professionals on regular surveys at the plant and surveys requested by the Union, Advance arrangements should be made to permit participation in such surveys. In plants of less than 1001 employees, the time spent by the Union Health and Safety Representative accompanying such inspectors and professionals shall not be charged against the Union Health and Safety Representatives weekly allotted hours.
(c)	— Be notified in advance, whenever possible, of health and safety inspections by Government or private agency officials or by consultants retained by the Corporation, and be afforded an opportunity, to provide any pertinent information to such officials or consultants.
The Local Committee shall:
(a)	— Receive copy of employer’s report to W.C.B. (Form 7) of all accidents or work related illness cases that require medical attention as prescribed by legislation, review/receive upon request results of the plant safety investigation of such accidents and make any necessary or desirable recommendations. Investigate work related fatalities and serious accidents. When such events occur during the 2nd or 3rd shift, the Management will notify the Union Health and Safety Representative and the National Coordinator, inform the Union member of the facts, and arrange upon request, for the Union Health and Safety Representative and the National Coordinator to enter the plant and investigate such events.
(b)	— Receive a copy of the plant’s report on injury and illness data and the plant’s employee hours worked and the incidence rate for the pertinent period.
The Union Health and Safety Representative shall:
(a) — Review, recommend, and participate in local safety education and information programs.
122
(b) -- Where necessary, measure noise, humidity, and air’
flow with approved direct reading equipment provided by the,; Corporation as set forth hereinafter, The Union Health and Safety Representative shall also use, or observe the use of appropriate industrial hygiene and safety testing equipment as required.
fbU-'
In the event the Union Health and Safety Representative is absent for one (1) day or more, the member may be replaced by an employee who has been designated as the regular replacement by the National Union with the concurrence of the National Joint Committee on Health and Safety, provided, where possible, the Union Health and Safety Representative has given local Management advance written notification of the expected absence of the regular Union Health and Safety Representative. As soon as practical following the effective date of this Agreement, the National Union shall provide to the Corporation the names of the employees who have been designated by the National Union as regular replacements.
It is understood that the Union Health and Safety Representative on each Local Committee who does not qualify under the schedule herein to perform these functions forty (40) hours pei week has a regular job to perform and that the Union Health and Safety Representative will advise the Supervisor concerned on each occasion when it is necessary for the Union member to leave the Union member’s regular job in order to function as a member of the Local Committee. The Union Health and Safety Representative on the Local Committee shall be permitted to meet in the regular meeting of the Plant Shop Committee and, at the request of the Local Union President, attend Special Conferences during the portion of such meeting or conference when health and safety issues or grievances thereon are discussed.
It is understood that the Union Health and Safety Representative on each Local Committee will be paid only for such time spent in performing these functions as occurs during the time when the Union Health and Safety Representative is otherwise scheduled to work except as provided by legislation.
123
Each plant will make available to such Union Health and Safety Representative a place where the Union Health and Safety Representative can write reports or review health and safety material. In addition, the Union Health and Safety Representative wilt be provided a lockable filing cabinet or drawer to keep health and safety material.
When a Union Health and Safety Representative on the Local Committee is permitted less than forty (40) hours a week away from work the designation of such time shall be made by mutual agreement between the Local Union and the Local Management.
The Union Health and Safety Representative of the Local Committee will not be scheduled for Saturday, Sunday, holiday or daily overtime work except as a regular employee in the Union Health and Safety Representative’s department and when so scheduled shall not perform the function as a Union Health and Safety Representative of the Local Committee; provided, however, when two hundred and seventy-five (275) employees on the Union member’s shift or more than 50% of the regular hourly work force in a plant of 1001 or more hourly employees are scheduled to work during hours for which they are entitled to receive premium pay under either Section (64) or Section (65) of the Production and Maintenance Agreement, the Union Health and Safety Representative of the Local Committee for that plant will also be scheduled to work and to function as a Union Health and Safety Representative of the Local Committee during such hours.
During a reduction in the work force in a plant of 1001 or more employees the Union Health and vSafety Representative of the Local Committee shall be permitted to perform the functions of the office when fifty percent (50%) or more of the people on the Union Health and Safety Representative’s shift are working, except that during a reduction in force due to model change or plant rearrangement the Union Health and Safety Representative shall be permitted to perform the functions of the office when one
124
hundred (100) or more of the people on the Union Health and Safety Representative’s shift are working.
The privilege of the Union Health and Safety Representative of a Local Committee to perform these duties during regular working hours is subject to the conditions (i) that the time be devoted to the prompt handling of matters which are proper pursuant to the terms of the Memorandum or existing legislation and the privilege shall not be abused (ii) that if it is necessary for a Union Health and Safety Representative of a Local Committee to speak to an employee about a health and safety matter the Union Health and Safety Representative shall make prior arrangements with the employee’s Supervisor to do so unless authorized by legislation.
The Union Chairperson as designated by the National Union of a Local Committee shall be assigned to the first shift and shall be subject to the provisions of Section (14) of the 1987 Production and Maintenance Agreement.
A National Joint Committee on Health and Safety will be established, consisting of two (2) representatives of the National Union appointed by the President, National Union, CAW and two
(2)	representatives of the Corporation appointed by the VicePresident of Human Resources of the Corporation, herein referred to as the National Committee. Each party will appoint at least one (I) member who has professional training in industrial hygiene or safety. This Committee shall:
(a)	— Meet at least quarterly at mutually agreeable times and places. Minutes will be prepared for each meeting and a copy given to the National Union members.
(b)	— Receive the Corporation’s safety and health programs and make necessary or desirable recommendations.
(c)	— Develop and recommend to the Corporation an appropriate annual training program to be established for Union members of the Local Committees.
125
(d)	— Develop and recommend to the Corporation guidelines for employee training and education.
(e)	— Review and analyze federal, provincial or local standards or regulations which affect the health and safety programs within the Corporation.
(0 — Review problems concerning serious or unusual situations affecting plant health and safety and make necessary or desirable recommendations.
(g)	— Receive, review and analyze the injury and illness data for all plants with corresponding employee hours worked and incidence rates. Such information for all plants will be provided.
(h)	— Receive and deal with matters referred to them by Local Committees.
(i)	— The foregoing to be done with a view to giving guidance to the Local Health and Safety Committees.
The Corporation recognizes its obligation to provide as safe and healthful a working environment for employees as it reasonably can and both parties agree to use their best efforts, jointly, to achieve that end. ‘Responsibility for health and safety matters remains, however, with the Corporation.
The Corporation agrees to:
(a)	— Provide the necessary or required personal protective equipment, devices and clothing at no cost to employees.
(b)	— Provide equipment for measuring noise, humidity, temperature and air flow which will be available for use by the Local Committees. Air contaminants will be measured upon request by an industrial hygienist. Proper arrangements shall be made to permit the Union Health and Safety Representative of the Local Committee to use the safety and industrial hygiene equipment available to the Management members of the Local
126
Committee and in which the members of the Local Committee have received training.
(c)	-Provide 40 hours annual training for members of the Local Committees, the Company to pay for lost time and registration where necessary. Also provide appropriate education and training in health and safety for all employees. In addition to initial instruction, members of the Local Committees will receive specialized training appropriate to the nature of the work performed in their plants. The National Union Health and Safety Department will be provided the opportunity to review and participate in such training or instruction programs and make necessary and desirable recommendations.
(d)	— Permit the Union Health and Safety Representative of the Local Committee to participate in and observe Manage,. ment measurement or sampling of the occupational environment, including breathing zone samples, the results and recommendations of which will be given to the Union members of the Local Committee, in writing, and theresults will be posted as prescribed by legislation. The Union Health and Safety Representative will take appropriate steps to inform all employees affected. Where corrective action is required the Union members of the Local Committee will be informed of measures to be taken. Results of all breathing zone and appropriate area air samples will be entered in the employee’s medical records. Such results shall be provided upon request to the employee or the employee’s authorized agent as prescribed by legislation.
(e)	— Provide in writing to the Union members of the Local Committees and on request, the National Committee any process'd’ ’!
h\
biological, chemical or physical agents or combination of such I'p agents used or intended to be used in the work place, including those ' in use by outside contractors, and the manner of use including:
(I) the ingredients considered hazardous in keeping with federal and provincial legislation thereof stating their full chemical name or names.
127
(2)	the composition stated in percentage ranges as legislated where appropriate and the properties thereof.
(3)	the toxicological effect thereof.
(4)	the effect of exposure thereto whether by contact, inhalation or ingestion.
(5)	the protective measures used or to be used in respect thereof.
(6)	the emergency measures used or to be used, including a description of the remedies and antidotes to deal with exposure in respect thereof.
(7)	the effect of the use, handling and disposal thereof.
When a need arises that “Full Chemical Information” on a product is required, every effort will be made to obtain such information. The information received will be shared with the Local Committee for purposes of hazard assessment and shall be protected as legislated.
Provide written notification to the Local Health and Safety Committee of any ongoing changes in the make-up of chemical products used in the plant.
(f)	— Provide competent staff and medical facilities adequate to implement its obligation as outlined in (g) below.
(g)	— Provide to employees who are exposed to potentially harmful agents or toxic materials, at no cost to them, those medical services, physical examinations and other appropriate tests including audiometric examinations, at a frequency and extent necessary to determine whether the health of such employees is being adversely affected. Also, to provide the specific tests required for employee!; in jobs with special physical requirements.
(h)	— Arrange for regular surveys of each plant by the Corporation’s Industrial Health and Safety Staff and provide special surveys at the request of either a plant management or the National Union. Such survey reports and recommendations will
128
be provided to the National Union, the National Health and Safet) Committee and to the Union members of the Local Committee. The Union Health and Safety Representative of the Local Committee shall be allowed to accompany health and safety special,, ists whenever hired by the Corporation to perform the functions normally performed by the Corporation’s Industrial Health and Safety Staff. Such specialists’ reports and recommendations will be provided to the National Union, the National Health and Safety Committee and to the Union members of the Local Committee.
(i)	— Provide access, upon reasonable notice, to all Corporation plants and locations to health and safety representatives ot the National Union. Reports on such surveys will be provided to the Corporation.
(j)	— Provide to the Union members of the Local Committee and to the National Committee prompt notification of fatalities and serious accidents. Upon making proper arrangements, immediate investigation may be made of such events by the National Union’s health and safety professionals upon request.
(k)	,— Provide monthly to the National Coordinator a summary of the Accident Frequency and Severity reports for each location.
The Union agrees to maintain in a confidential manner any statistical data or proprietary information supplied to it under the terms of this Memorandum of Understanding.
On the first shift each Thursday (or, if Thursday is not a scheduled workday, another appropriate day) of each workweek, the Steward in each district of each plant, and/or the appropriate member of the Plant Shop Committee for such district, will conduct a tour to determine whether safe, healthful and sanitary conditions are being maintained. The Union Representative shall report to the Union Health and Safety Representative of the Local Committee any conditions which the Union Representative believes to be in need of correction.
129
On the first shift of the next scheduled workday, the Union Health and Safety Representative of the Local Committee will conduct an investigation of those matters contained in the reports of the various Plant Shop Committeepersons. Those matters not resolved as a result of such investigation may be placed on the agenda of the regular conference between the Plant Shop Committee and the Labour Relations Supervisor and discussed at its next scheduled meeting or, in those situations the Union Health and Safety Representative of the Local Committee deems urgent, be referred directly to the National Committee.
This procedure shall not preclude the filing of a health and safety grievance at Step 1 of the Grievance Procedure. The primary responsibility of resolving differences involving health and safety matters remains with the plant supervision and the local Union representatives.
Grievances arising under these provisions shall not be in the jurisdiction of the Appeal Board.
Nothing herein shall be construed to restrict any employee’s rights under Section 23 of the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1978.
Dated and signed at Toronto, Ontario, this 25th day of October, 1990.
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE,
AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA)
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
130
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON PLANT CLOSINGS
‘This Memorandum of Understanding supplements the Production and Maintenance Agreement between Chrysler Canada Ltd. and the National Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada), and certain of its Local Unions, dated October 25,1990 as follows:
WHEREAS, the Corporation and the Union wish to provide work opportunity to employees laid off as a result of the phasing-out of operations prior to a plant closing and those laid off as the result of the closing itself; and
WHEREAS, due to the plant closing such laid off employees have no recall rights to any Corporation plant.
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed that effective and concurrent with the Production and Maintenance Agreement,
Employees laid off from a plant the Corporation has announced its intention to close and who are not expected to be recalled due to the closing will be placed on a list in the order of their seniority at the closed plant. As work they art: qualified to do becomes available at other plants of the Corporation as a result of attritional openings, employees on the list will be eligible lot placement in such jobs insofar as reasonably practicable in the order of their seniority at the closed plant.
An employee placed pursuant to this Paragraph I will be placed only when said employee's seniority is greater than the seniority of a laid off employee of the plant in which the attritional opening occurs and who otherwise would be recalled to the attritional opening.
131
II
Employees placed pursuant to Paragraph I, above, in a new plant of the Corporation within twelve (12) calendar months of the date it ships its first production will be credited at such plant with their full seniority at the closed plant at the time of their placement.
III
Employees who decline an opportunity to be placed pursuant to Paragraph I or II above, shall be removed from the list and thereafter shall be ineligible for placement pursuant to the terms of this Memorandum.
IV
The Corporation shall not incur any liability for claimed violations or errors in administration of this Memorandum, and employees will not accumulate seniority or other rights by reason of this Memorandum.
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE,
AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA)
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
132
OF
UNDERSTANDING UNION DUES 
This Memorandum of Understanding dated October 25, 1990, between CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. for its Etobicoke Casting Plant, Ajax Trim Plant, Windsor Assembly Plant, Pillette Road Truck Assembly Plant, Bramalea Assembly Plant, Brampton Assembly Plant and the Grand Marais Road Building (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and the NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA) for its Local Unions No. 1459. 1090, 1285 and 444 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”) supplements the Production and Maintenance Agreement dated October 25,1990.
WHEREAS, the Corporation and the Union wish to set forth certain understandings with respect to the deduction and remittance of Union membership dues (which term, as used herein, shall include, where appropriate, Union initiation fees):
NOW THEREFORE, pursuant to Section (7) of the above-mentioned Production and Maintenance Agreement, it is hereby agreed as follows:
(1)	TIME OF DEDUCTIONS.
(a) The initiation fee will he deducted from the pay of an employee at any time within thirty (30) days after the employee becomes a member of the Union as provided in Section (6) of the above-mentioned Production and Maintenance Agreement.
(t>) Check-Off deductions for Union membership dues will begin in the month in which the employee becomes a member of the Union. Thereafter, in each succeeding month. Union membership dues then due and owing will be deducted in the calendar month.
133
(2)	PAY PERIODS IN WHICH DEDUCTIONS ARE MADE!.
Union membership dues for the current calendar month will be deducted from the pay received by the employee for the first full pay period falling in the month. If an employee does not have sufficient net earnings in the first full pay period falling in the month, a Union membership dues deduction will be made in the next subsequent pay period ending in the month in which the employee has sufficient net earnings to cover such deduction, and not thereafter.
(3)	OTHER DUES DEDUCTIONS.
If an employee does not have sufficient net earnings in a pay period in a calendar month for the deduction of dues as provided in Paragraph (2) of this Memorandum of Understanding, such dues will be deducted in a later calendar month, provided the employee has sufficient net earnings to cover such deduction, and provided thedesignated financial officer of the Local Union gives notice in writing to the Hourly Payroll Department or the Plant Personnel Department, specifying the employee, the employee’s Social Insurance number, the amount to be deducted and the month or months for which the deductions are to be made. The designated financial officer of the Union may submit a similar notice in writing specifying the employee and the month or months for which it is certified (a) that the employee did not earn forty (40) hours of pay in the specified month but did receive Supplemental Unemployment Benefits equivalent to forty (40) hours pay for that month, and (b) that Union membership dues were due and owing for that month and were not paid. Union membership dues deductions in the amount of one hour’s pay as per the Constitution or such other amount as may be established as dues for such employee will be deducted from a subsequent Regular Supplemental Unemployment Benefit cheque issued to such employee for a pay period ending in the month the notice in writing is received, but not thereafter, or at the option of the designated financial officer, will be deducted from the regular
134
pay of such employee in a subsequent pay period ending in the month in which the notice in writing is received, provided the employee has sufficient net earnings to cover such deduction, but not thereafter.
(4)	REFUNDS.
In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that an employee already has made to the Union, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the provisions of the Union Constitution and By-laws, refunds to the employee will be made by the Local Union.
(5)	REMITTANCE OF DUES TO FINANCIAL OFFICER.
At the end of each week in which deductions are taken, the Corporation shall remit by cheque the total of the deductions to the Union. The Corporation will also furnish to the designated financial officer of the Local Union a list of the names of employees for whom Union membership dues have and have been taken. By the 10th of each following month a list shall be provided to the Local Union of employees for whom dues were deducted and not deducted.
(6)	DISPUTES CONCERNING CHECK-OFF.
Except as otherwise specifically provided or dealt with, any dispute as to a violation or interpretation of any provision respecting Check-Off shall be matter for the grievance procedure and shall be submitted direct to the Impartial Chairperson.
(7)	LIMIT OF CORPORATION’S LIABILITY.
The Corporation shall not be liable to the National Union ot its Local by reason of the requirements of the Production and Maintenance Agreement or this Memorandum of Understanding for the remittance or payment of any sum other than that constituting actual deductions made from wages earned by employees or from Regular Supplemental Unemployment Benefits payable to employees.
135
(8)	DISPUTES CONCERNING MEMBERSHIP.
Any dispute arising as to an employee’s membership in the Union shall be reviewed by the Vice-President of Personnel and the President of the Local Union and if not resolved may be submitted directly to the Impartial Chairperson through the grievance procedure.
NATIONAL
UNION, (CAW-CANADA)   Robert White
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. K.R. Francese
136
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
DISTRIBUTION AND 
OF OVERTIME
Memorandum of Understanding between Chrysler Canada Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and the National Union, CAW, and its Local Unions No. 444 and 1090 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”).
In view of the desire of the parties to establish a procedure for the distribution and recording of overtime applicable to existing conditions, it is agreed that the following procedure be established.
This procedure in no way takes the place of, or takes away from, Paragraph (24) — Special Provisions Pertaining to Windsor Area Plants or Paragraph (14) -Special Provisions Pertaining to Ajax Trim Plant in the case of other than skilled trades. It establishes the mechanics only for the distributing and recording of overtime under present conditions.
Because of the limited number of departments presently operating on more than one shift, and owing to the present absence of groups, and in view of the desire of the parties to establish a procedure for the distribution and recording of overtime applicable to existing conditions, it is agreed that for the time being the following procedure will not contain any reference to group or shift. However, it is further agreed that when, in the opinion of theCoiporation, the situation warrants reference in the procedure to group and/or shift such reference shall be read into the procedure as if set out in full therein consistent with Paragraphs (24) or (14) in the above Special Provisions.
1.	For the purposes of distributing and recording overtime work: “Overtime” shall mean time worked over eight (8) hours within any period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours, Monday through Friday; time worked on Saturdays, Sundays and paid
Definition
137
holidays excepting that, where overtime pay is paid for time worked within a regular eight (8) hour day such time shall not be considered overtime for the purposes of this Memorandum.
Notice
2.	The Union recognizes that the Corporation’s operations do not generally permit twenty-four (24) hours’ notice of overtime to he given. The Corporation will, however, endeavour to give to the employees affected such notice of overtime work whenever it can be reasonably done. Where such notice can he reasonably given in advance, the Supervisor will also notify the relevant Steward of the overtime work to be done and the employees involved. Where such notice cannot he reasonably given in advance the Supervisor will provide this information to the Steward as soon as it can reasonably be done thereafter.
Distribution
Other Than Skilled Trades
3.	(a) Overtime will be evenly distributed when reasonably possible among the employees in the same department.
(b)	The Supervisor after thoroughly considering the employees’ ability shall offer the work to the employees having the least amount of recorded overtime hours in the department provided such employees are able to satisfactorily perform the work to he done.
(c)	In choosing from among the employees of a department having an equal amount of recorded overtime then those with the greatest seniority able to satisfactorily perform the work to he done shall be given the overtime.
Skilled Trades
(d)	Overtime will be evenly distributed when reasonably possible among the employees in the same classification in the department. In the event an employee voluntarily misses a turn
138
at such overtime, the employee shall he considered as having worked that turn insofar as distribution is concerned.
(e)	The Supervisor after thoroughly considering the employees’ ability shall offer the work to the employees having the least amount of recorded overtime hours in the same classification in the department provided such employees are able to satisfactorily perform the work to he done.
(f)	In choosing from among the employees in a classification in a department having an equal amount of recorded overtime then those with the greatest seniority able to satisfactorily perform the work to be done shall be given the overtime.
(g)	An employee who attains temporary employee status after September 15,1982, will not participate in the overtime in any classification until such overtime has been made available to all journeymen/women or permanent employees in that classification on the shift during which the overtime is to he worked in the case of week-day overtime, or until such overtime has been made available to all journeymen/women or permanent employees in the classification in the department in the case of overtime for Saturday, Sunday, or one of those holidays designated in P & M Section (74).
Students
(h)	Students will not beoffered overtime until all employees in the department have been canvassed. Ability to satisfactorily perform and, in the case of midweek overtime, shifts will prevail.
Records
4.	(a) ‘The overtime records shall he kept on the basis of overtime hours paid rather than for overtime hours worked.
‘Example: An employee who works for eight (8) hours on Saturday at the rate of time and one half will be recorded with twelve (12) hours, and an employee who works eight (8) hours on Sunday at the double time rate will be recorded with sixteen
139
([ 6) hours, and further an employee who works eight (8) hours on a paid holiday will be recorded with sixteen (1 6) hours.
(b)	The overtime records shall be made available to the employee, the employee’s Steward and the employee’s Plant Shop Committeeperson for inspection to the extent reasonably necessary for such employee, Steward, or Plant Shop Committeeperson, to ascertain the overtime status of such employee.
(c)	The departmental overtime records shall be posted in each department, and will be up-dated weekly.
Records .-When Adjusted
Notice
5.	(a) Any employee who is given notice of overtime work while at work and who refused the overtime shall, for the purposes of the record, be charged as having worked.
(b)	Any employee who is given notice of overtime work while not at work and who refuses the overtime, shall, for the purposes of the record, not be charged as having worked. If such employee accepts the work assignment and fails to report the employee will be charged as having worked.
(c)	In the event the Corporation in its endeavours is unsuccessful in giving notice, the employee shall not be charged in the record. Such attempt by the Corporation shall fulfill its obligation towards the employee insofar as this turn at overtime is concerned.
Entering a Department
(d)	An employee other than skilled trades on returning to work after an absence of thirty (30) days or more for any reason except vacation shall [except as hereinafter provided in Subsection (g)] have recorded against the employee’s name in the overtime records the number of hours which is equal to the greater of
(i)	the average number of overtime hours of the department or (ii)
140
the number of hours charged against the employee immediately prior to the commencement of the absence.
An employee other than skilled trades on entering a department by being hired or transferred shall [except as hereinafter provided in Subsection (g)] have recorded against the employee’s name in the overtime records the average number of overtime hours of the department.
The average number of overtime hours is to be computed weekly. Theovertime hours of Union Representatives will not be used or recorded in computing the average overtime hours for any department. When an employee ceases to be a Union Representative said employee shall assume the average number of overtime hours of the employee’s department and participate in overtime distribution in the regular manner.
(e)	A skilled trades employee on returning to work aftei an absence of thirty (30) days or more for any reason except vacation shall [except as hereinafter provided in Subsection (g)] have recorded against the skilled trades employee’s name in the overtime records the number of hours which is equal to thegreatei of(i) the average number of overtime hours of the classification or (ii) the number of hours charged against the skilled trades employee’s name immediately prior to the commencement of the absence.
A skilled trades employee on entering a classification in a department by being hired or transferred shall [except as hereinafter provided in Subsection (g)] have recorded against the skilled trades employee’s name in the overtime records the average number of overtime hours of the classification.
The average number of overtime hours is to be computed weekly. The overtime hours of Union Representatives will not be used or recorded in computing the average overtime hours fot any classification. When an employee ceases to be a Union Representative said employee shall assume the average number of
141
overtime hours of the employee’s classification and participate in overtime distribution in the regular manner.
Employees on Loan
(f)	Any employee on loan to another department and who works overtime in such other department shall have such overtime charged to the employee’s record.
Temporary Layoff
(g)	An employee returning to the department after a temporary layoff regardless of its duration will retain the same number of recorded overtime hours that said employee had at the time the layoff commenced.
Model Change
(h)	In the case of other than skilled trades only the overtime records will be suspended for each department as each department completes its work on the old model. From this point up until the point the Corporation converts the recall for the new model from a departmental basis to a plantwide seniority basis, interim overtime records will be instituted and overtime will be distributed according to the same general principles as are outlined in this Memorandum. With the conversion to plant-wide seniority, the interim records shall cease and the suspended overtime records will be revived and shall form the basis for future distribution of overtime in the department.
Whole Department Scheduled
(i)	In the case of other than skilled trades where the same amount of overtime is scheduled or made available for all employees in a department on the same day, no entries need to be made in the record because the standing of the employees would not be altered.
(j)	In the case of skilled trades where the same amount of overtime is scheduled or made available for all employees in
142
a classification in a department on the same day, no entries need be made in the record because the standing of the employees would not be altered.
Augmentation
6.	When it is necessary to augment from another department for overtime purposes it is understood that the Corporation will endeavour, where reasonably possible, to use those employees from that other department who have the least number of recorded overtime hours, provided they can satisfactorily perform the work to be done.
NATIONAL UNION,  Robert White
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. K.R. Francese
143
SCHEDULE“A”
BARGAINING UNIT DESCRIPTIONS
referred to in Section (1) of the following Agreement:
Production and Maintenance
between
Chrysler Canada Ltd. and the
CAW
1990
APPENDIX SCHEDULE “A”
Bargaining Units referred to in Section (I) of the Production and Maintenance Agreement between Chrysler Canada Ltd., and the National Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers Union of Canada (CAW-Canada) and certain of its Local Unions dated October 25,1990
1.	A11 hourly-rated employees of Chrysler Canada Ltd. in its WifldaQLAssenoljlyJrllant, except timekeepers. time study men, employees in a supervisory capacity, draftsmen, chemists, metallurgists, laboratory workers, technical employees, office and salaried employees, plant protection men and all employees covered by any olher collective agreement with the Corporation.
2.	All hourly-rated employees of Chrysler Canada Ltd. in its Grand Marais Road Building, except timekeepers, time study
144
men, employees in a supervisory capacity, draftsmen, chemists, metallurgists, laboratory workers, technical employees, office and salaried employees, plant protection men and all employees covered by any other collective agreement with the Corporation.
3.	All hourly-rated employees of Chrysler Canada Ltd. in its Aiax Trim Plant except engineering personnel, nurses, matrons, timekeepers. time study men, employees in a supervisory capacity, draftsmen, chemists, metallurgists, laboratory workers, technical employees, office and salaried employees, plant protection men and all employees covered by any other collective agreement with the Corporation.
4.	All employees of Chrysler Canada Ltd. at itsrEtobicoke Casting Plant save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office and sales staff and security guards.
5.	All production and maintenance employees at the Pillette Road Truck Assembly Plant, excluding timekeepers, time study men, employees in a supervisory capacity, draftsmen, chemists, metallurgists, laboratory workers, technical employees, office and salaried employees, plant protection men and all employees covered by any other collective bargaining agreement with the Corporation.
6.	All hourly-rated production and maintenance employees at the Brampton Assembly Plant, excluding assistant foremen, persons above the rank of assistant foreman, security personnel, watchmen, first aid staff, chief inspectors and assistant chief inspectors, timekeepers, general office employees, personnel department employees, clerical employees, plant and designing engineers, metallurgists, chemists, designers, draftsmen, detailed and their assistants, time and motion study employees, technical and professional employees and their assistants.
7.	All hourly-rated production and maintenance employees at the Bramalea Assembly Plant, excluding assistant foremen, persons above the rank of assistant foreman, security personnel, watchmen, first aid staff, chief inspectors and assistant chief
145
inspectors, timekeepers, general office employees, personnel department employees, clerical employees, plant and designing engineers, metallurgists, chemists, designers, draftsmen, detailed and their assistants, time and motion study employees, technical and professional employees and their assistants.
If it is considered that the above descriptions differ from the original Ontario Labour Relations Board certification or the initial agreemenl between the parties describing the bargaining unit, the Board certification or the initial agreement shall govern. By agreeing to the foregoing descriptions, neither party hereto waives the right to move to amend or clarify any certification, by the Ontario Labour Relations Board.
146
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT
TEMPORARY PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
The parties agree that the Corporation may hire temporary part-time employees to supplement the work force for straighttime, overtime or weekend work in any plant covered by the 1990 Production and Maintenance Agreement.
‘Therefore it is agreed this Supplemental Agreement shall govern the employment of such temporary par-time employees.
I. Temporary part-time employees are employees hired bj the Corporation who shall normally be scheduled to work on Mondays and Fridays, in addition to premium days, subject to . the following:
A.	On days they are scheduled to work, temporary parttime employees may be scheduled any part or all of the hours scheduled for the department in which they are assigned.
B.	Temporary part-time employees may be scheduled to work daily overtime and on days for which regular full-time employees receive premium pay as such for time worked provided they do not displace regular full-time employees.
C.	The employment by the Corporation of temporary part-time employees shall not be considered as an infringement of the rights of regular employees under the 1990 Chrysler Canada L,td.-CAW Production and Maintenance Agreement provided, however, at the time of a reduction in force. a seniority employee who is to be indefinitely laid off front the plant pursuant to such a reduction may request to displace a temporary part-time employee. Seniority employees who displace temporary parttime employees shall, during the period they would otherwise be on indefinite layoff, be required to comply with the work schedule for temporary part-time employees.
D.	A seniority employee who upon being indefinitely laid off elects to displace a temporary part-time employee or who. while on such layoff is hired to work as a temporary part-time
employee shall be paid a rate determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section (95) of the 1990 Production and Maintenance Agreement. Such employee shalt also be provided the level of life, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, and the HSMDDVH coverage, but not Supplemental Unemployment Benefits (SUB), to which the employee would have been entitled if the employee had continued as a laid off seniority employee, but only for the length of time the employee would have been entitled to such benefits if the employee had remained on indefinite layoff.
II.	Temporary part-time employees (except temporary parttime skilled trades employees hired to work in a skilled trades classification) hired on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall be hired at a rate equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the full base rate of the classification of the job to which they are assigned. At the beginning of the first pay period following one hundred eighty (180) days actually worked they shall receive an increase to ninety percent (90%) of the full base rate. At the beginning of the first pay period following three hundred and sixty-five (365) days actually worked they shall receive an increase to ninety-five percent (95%) of the full base rate. At the beginning of the first pay period following five hundred and forty-five (545) days actually worked they shall receive the full base rate. A temporary part-time employee will receive credit for seven days worked for each pay period during which the employee works.
III.	A temporary part-time employee hired to work in a skilled trades classification shalt be paid as follows:
A. If the employee possesses the qualifications required for journeyman/woman status in the classification in which the employee is employed the employee shall be paid the minimum rate of the classification for the first sixty days actually worked, and thereafter will be eligible for merit increases to the maximum rate of the classification; provided, however, that an employee not previously advanced to the maximum rate of the classification
148
shall be paid the maximum rate upon completion of one hundred and twenty days actually worked.
B. If an employee does not possess the qualifications for journeyman/woman status, but has the qualifications required for temporary employee status in the classification in which the employee is employed, the employee shall be paid a starting rate commensurate with the employee’s established and acceptable prior work experience in accordance with wage rate provisions applicable to employees hired, transferred or promoted on or aftei October 25, 1990. Wage rate advancement shall be consistent with those provisions.
IV.	A temporary part-time employee shall not accumulate time toward the fulfillment of the 90 day probationary period while employed as a temporary part-time employee. In the event a temporary part-time employee becomes a regular full-time employee the employee shall be considered a new employee and shall receive no credit for any purpose for time during which the employee was employed as a temporary part-time employee.
V.	The Corporation may discharge or terminate the employment of a temporary part-time employee at any time provided, however, the Union may protest in the grievance procedure the discharge or teimination of a temporary part-time employee in cases of claimed discrimination on account of race, colour, national origin, age, handicap, sex or religion.
VI.	A temporary part-time employee shall be entitled to Union representation including the grievance procedure in cases of alleged violation of this Supplemental Agreement.
VII.	A temporary part-time employee shall be subject to the provisions of Sections (6) through (9) of the 1990 Chrysler Canada Ltd.-CA.W P & M Agreement. The initiation fee and monthly dues regularly required of temporary pat-t-time employees shall be as determined by the National Union, CAW. Notice of the amounts of such fee and dues shall be given to the Corporation in writing by the National Union. CAW.
149
VIII.	A temporary part-time employee will not be assigned to an operation expressly for the purpose of establishing a production standard on that operation; nor will the temporary parttime employee’s performance be considered either in establishing a production standard or in a dispute over the production standard.
IX.	A temporary part-time employee shall not be covered by the SUB Plan (Exhibit A), Pension Agreement or the Insurance Program, the Legal Services Plan or the Income Maintenance Benefit Plan and Voluntary Termination of Employment Plan except as provided in Sections I.D. and XII of this Supplemental Agreement. A temporary part-time employee shall have only such rights, privileges, compensation or benefits as are expressly set forth by this Supplemental Agreement and the following sections of the 1990 Chrysler Canada Ltd.-CAW P & M Agree-
X.	A temporary part-time employee shall be paid time and one-half for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any continuous twenty-four hour period beginning with the starting time of the temporary part-time employee’s shift and for time worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week. A temporary part-time employee shall be paid for hours worked on Saturday and Sunday in accordance with the provisionsof Section (64) and (65) of the 1990 Chrysler Canada Ltd.-CAW P & M Agreement.
XI.	A temporary part-time employee shall receive eight (8) hours pay at the temporary part-time employee’s regular straighttime hourly rate for any of the holidays enumerated under Section (74) of the 1990 Chrysler Canada Ltd.-CAW P & M Agreement when such holidays occur on a regular workday of the employee’s workweek, provided the employee (I) actually worked at least
ment:
-Working Hours -Cost-of-Living Allowance — General Increase
150
ninety (90) days prior to such holiday, (2) worked the employee’s last scheduled working day prior to and the employee’s next scheduled working day after such holiday within the scheduled workweek, and (3) would otherwise have been scheduled to work on such day if it had not been observed as a holiday.
XII.	Temporary part-time employees will be provided
$3,750 life insurance and $1,875 accidental death and dismemberment insurance. The Corporation will pay the premiums for coverage for any month in which the employee receives pay from the Corporation for any time during such month. Such coverage begins on the first day of the first calendar month next following the month in which employment commences and ceases on the last day worked where employment is terminated.	^ j
‘Temporary part-time employees will also be provided H-S-M-D coverage but not Dental Expense, Vision Expense, Hearing Aid Expense, or Nursing Home Expense benefits or other benefits as provided under the Insurance Program. It is understood there will be no duplication of benefits because of coverage!; provided under the Insurance Program. The Corporation will pay the monthly premium for the following month’s applicable coverage for each employee while the employee is at work. An employee is considered “at work” in any month if the employee receives pay for any time during such month. Such coverage begins on the first day of the fourth calendar month next following the month in which employment commences. Coverage ceases at the end of the month in which employment is terminated.
XIII.	Any consent to be obtained from the Union concerning in-plant matters with regard to the T.P.T. Program must be obtained from either the Plant Chairperson or the Advisory Com-mitteeperson.
XIV.	This Agreement shall become effective concurrently with, and continue in full force and effect during the term of the Production and Maintenance Agreement.
151
XV.	This Agreement supersedes and in all respects replaces the Supplemental Agreement-Temporary Part-Time Employees dated September 18, 1987.
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE,
AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA)
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
152
October 25 1990
(1)
Benefit Plans Representatives
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
‘The National Union CAW, may designate, a Benefit Plans Representative for each Corporation plant of 101 or more employees. The maximum number of hours per week in which each Benefit Plans Representative will be allowed to function shall be determined on the basis of the number of employees in the plant in accordance with the following schedule:
Adjustments shall be made twice each calendar year in the maximum number of hours each Benefit Plans Representative will be allowed to function. Adjustments shall be effective (1) the second pay period in May, based on the number of hourly employees on the active roll in the plant on the third Wednesday of the preceding month of April, and (2) the second pay period in November, based on the number of hourly employees on the active roll in the plant on the third Wednesday of the preceding month of October.
1.	The Benefit Plans Representative shall be selected by the National Union CAW, from among those hourly employees who have seniority under the Production and Maintenance Agreement and who at the time of selection are at work in the Corporation plant in which the Benefit Plans Representative is to function. The Benefit Plans Representative shall represent all employees at the plant represented by the Local Union from which said Benefit Plans Representative is designated with respect to the
Plant
Number of Employees
Hours Per Week
40
24
16
8
153
Pension Plan, the Insurance Program and the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan.
2.	Benefit Plans Representatives shall carry out the duties of Union representatives specified in the Pension Plan, the Insurance Program and the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan. Other Union representatives in the plant in which a Benefit Plans Representative has been designated shall not participate in benefit plan matters except insofar as any one of them has been designated to act as the second member of a local committee pursuant to the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan.
Duties of the Benefit Plans Representatives are:
(a)	To function in place of the Chairperson of the Plant Shop Committee for the purposes of Article X Section (3) of the Pension Plan for the plant for which the Chairperson functions.
(b)	To function as a member of the Local committee provided in Article (V) Section (2) (b) 7 of the SUB plan.
(c)	To discuss with designated representatives of plant management those questions regarding a benefit Plan or Program.
3.	The Benefit Plans Representative shall not participate in the grievance procedure and those matters with which such Benefit Plans Representative deals shall not be subject to the grievance procedure but shall be subject to the review procedure specified in the appropriate Plan or Program.
4.	A Benefit Plans Representative shall not function as provided herein unless and until the National Union (a) sends written notice to the Corporation of the name of the employee, the plant, department and social insurance number, and (b) until the Corporation advises the plant of the designation and the effective date thereof.
5.	A Benefit Plans Representative shall cease to function as provided herein upon receipt of written notice from the National Union to the Corporation. Such notice shall include the same identification information specified in 4 above.
6.	Benefit Plans Representatives shall be subject to the following:
154
(a)	When a Benefit Plans Representative is permitted time away from work less than 40 hours a week the designation of the time away from work shall continue to be made by mutual agreement between the Local Union and Plant Management.
(b)	The Benefit Plans Representative shall report to the Supervisor concerned at the start of the shift and shall advise the Supervisor when wishing, to leave work to handle a benefit plan matter and shall report to the Supervisor when that matter has been disposed of.
(c)	If it is necessary for the Benefit Plans Representative to speak to an employee about a benefit plan matter, the Benefit Plans Representative will make prior arrangements with the employee’s Supervisor to do so.
(d)	The privilege of a Benefit Plans Representative to leave work during regular working hours without loss of pay is subject to the conditions (i) that the time be devoted to the prompt handling of matters, which are proper pursuant to the terms of this letter; (ii) that the privilege not be abused and (iii) that the Benefit Plans Representative will do the work which is assigned at all times except when it is necessary to leave work to handle benefit plan matters.
(e)	The Benefit Plans Representative will not be scheduled for Saturday, Sunday, holiday or daily overtime work except as a regular employee in the department and when so scheduled shall not function as a Benefit Plans Representative; provided, however, when more than 50% of the regular hourly work force in a plant of 1501 or more hourly employees are scheduled to work during hours for which they are entitled to receive premium pay under either Section (64) or Section (65) of the Production and Maintenance Agreement, the Benefit Plans Representative for that plant will also be scheduled to work and to function as a Benefit Plans Representative during such hours.
(f)	During a temporary adjustment in a plant of 1501 or more employees the Benefit Plans Representative shall be permitted to perform the functions of the Representative’s office when fifty percent (50%) or more of the people on the Benefit Plans Representative’s shift are working.
155
7.	The Benefit Plans Representative shall be assigned to the first shift and shall be subject to the provisions of Section (I 4) of the Production and Maintenance Agreement.
The National Union may designate in writing to the Corporation from among seniority employees at work on the first shift at a plant a permanent alternate to function when the Benefit Plans Representative is to be away from the plant for at least a full shift and plant management receives advance written notification of such absence or, if the expected absence is due to Union business, approval from the National Union.
The permanent alternate shall not be deemed to be included among Committeepersons and Officers covered by the applicable Plant Special Provisions.
When replacing the Benefit Plans Representative, the permanent alternate shall be subject to all the provisions applicable to Benefit Plans Representative.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
156
National Union (CAW-Canada)
October 25, 1990
(2)
CAW National Health and Safety Co-ordinator
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
Discussions were held concerning the duties and responsibilities of a CAW National Health and Safety Co-ordinator.
The Co-ordinator will be appointed by the CAW President and any complaints, should they arise, relative to the Coordinator’s performance may be referred to the President’s Office.
The Co-ordinator’s role is to promote a policy of problem solving, internal responsibility, and a non-adversarial relationship between the parties.
The National Health and Safety Co-ordinator may also counsel the Local Health and Safety Committees and make recommendations to improve the performance of the committee in maintaining a safe and healthful working environment. Plant Management will co-operate in this regard and may meet with the Co-ordinator and the Health and Safety Committee to discuss the recommendations. Additionally, the Co-ordinator may make recommendations to develop, improve and guide individual plants in the area of Health and Safety training.
The Co-ordinator, reporting to the Manager of Health and Safety, will put forth the best efforts to develop a working relationship with Management to effectively function in this position.
The Co-ordinator will be based in the Tecumseh Road Office Building, Windsor.
Discussion took place on how the Co-ordinator could make recommendations to Management to improve existing health and safety policy and procedures in the plant, through training, inspection and audits. In doing so it was understood while Management agreed to accept recommendations in these areas, the final decision to act upon the suggestions remains that of Man-
157
agement and will be based on legislation, practicality and good business decisions.
Finally, it is earnestly hoped by both parties that this innovative approach to improvement and development of existing legislated and negotiated training, leading to a greater sharing of the responsibility of encouraging co-operative relationships in health and safety, will lead to a situation considered satisfactory to both Union and Management.
The parties agreed that the above arrangements, which were originally negotiated in 1987 and the subsequent evolving relationships and expanding responsibilities have worked well for the Company and the Union.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
158
October 25, 1990
(3)
Additional Health and Safety Representative —
WAP and PRTAP
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
On afternoon shifts, a Health and Safety Representative will be added to the Windsor Assembly Plant and the Pillette Road Truck Assembly Plant.
The parties agreed and understood each Representative would only function when a full vehicle production shift was in operation at the plant serviced.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
159
October 25, 1990
Full Time Flealth & Safety Representative - Etobicoke
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During negotiations the parties discussed the special need for a full time Union Health and Safety Representative.
The Representative is hereby appointed.
The appointment of this representative is seen as a pro-active decision based on the assurance the Health and Safety Committee together will operate in a non confrontation manner, share responsibilities and duties and promote internal responsibility with regard to Hazard Removal.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
160
October 25,1990
(5)
Workers’ Compensation Representative
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During our recent negotiations the parties discussed at length, the issue of rising claims and costs of employees claiming entitlement for Workers’ Compensation benefits. We determined that we could address our mutual concerns, while at the same time providing assistance to the employees by exploring innovative approaches to this rising problem. To that end, the parties agreed a Union appointed Workers’ Compensation Benefit Representative shall be allowed up to forty (40) hours away from his/her Company assigned work at Ajax Trim Plant, Pillette Road Truck Assembly Plant and Windsor Assembly Plant.
A proposed list of duties described in the appendix attached hereto shall be performed by the Workers’ Compensation Representative, it being understood that as experience is gained with this joint initiative, such duties may require revision or modification
To ensure maximum effectiveness, the parties will meet on an ongoing basis as required to resolve any problems. Ninety (90) days after implementation, the National parties will meet to determine if the program has addressed our mutual concerns and to decide if modifications are required and/or whether it should be continued.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
161
APPENDIX
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION REPRESENTATIVE Job Description
Works jointly with management Workers’ Compensation Representative.
'Time of Accident
.-interview employee immediately after visiting first aid.
—	record detailed information regarding the accident. .-participate in the investigation of the accident:
witness supervision review site
.-participate in review of information to discuss acceptability of the claim within W.C.B. standards.
Counselling
—	provide guidance and advice to employees on required Workers’ Compensation matters and dealing with the Workers’ Compensation Board.
—	as required provide Aetna S&A office with information concerning pending Workers’ Compensation claims for employees claiming S&A benefits.
Placement
—	using plant placement procedure, assist in placing employees who are fit to do immediate temporary modified work.
-- using plant placement procedure, assist in placing employees who have been off work and are fit to return to modified duties.
-- follow up with employees who miss work the day following a reported accident. Make every effort to insure they do not become lost time claims by offering modified work. -monitor and follow-up with temporary placements to insure they are provided additional placement opportunities.
--discuss the employee’s ability to do modified work with the attending physician.
162
Reporting/Recommendations
-monitor accidents by location and type.
—	report regularly on developing trends.
—	report specific issues lo appropriate plant supervision
facilities
equipment
tools
parts
-attend and provide appropriate reports at plant safety meetings.
—	liaison to provide appropriate information to the plant safety department.
163
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Cariada)	(6)
CAW Health & Safety Training Coordinator
Windsor Area
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During negotiations the parties discussed the need for a Windsor Area Health and Safety Training Coordinator.
The coordinator will be an employee of the Windsor Assembly Plant or Pillette Road Truck Assembly Plant; report to the Manager of Safety and be located in an area designated by Management.
Duties will include coordination, development, scheduling and tracking of training. The Coordinator will train other instructors when required; instruct as required and be paid at the present rate of pay as adjusted by the 1990 Agreement.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
164
October 25. 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(7)
Overtime/Temporary Layoff Work Opportunities (Benefit, Health and Safety, and Substance Abuse Representatives)
Attention: Mr. Robert White
Dear Sirs:
During the 1990 negotiations the Union expressed concerns regarding the limited work opportunities that are made available to the Benefit Representatives, Health and Safety Representatives, and Substance Abuse Representatives during overtime and periods of temporary layoff.
The Company indicated that it was mindful of circumstances which could result in work opportunities for such Representatives even though sufficient numbers ofemployees were not at work to qualify such Representatives in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement. For example, it would be appropriate for the Health and Safety Representative to be offered the opportunity to be at work during the plant rearrangements involving new equipment installations. Similarly, it would be appropriate for the Benefits Representative to be at work during the periods of temporary layoffs or indefinite layoffs involving a significant number of employees to permit him/her to work with plant administrators to ensure the expeditious processing of benefit-related matters, and similarly, it would be appropriate for the Employee Assistance/Substance Abuse Representative to be at work to attend to employee assistance and substance abuse problems.
In response the Company has agreed that where the overtime is required to meet the responsibilities and duties of the full time Benefits Representative, full time Substance Abuse Representative, or full time Health & Safety Representative he/she may be retained at work provided he/she has the prior approval of the Human Resources Manager.
165
Where the respective Representative believes that there is no reasonable justification for the Human Resources Manager withholding his/her prior approval, the matter may be referred to Staff Labour Relations and the CAW National Office.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
166
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(8)
Payment of Union Representatives During Local Negotiations
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the course of current negotiations, the Corporation and the Union had discussions concerning the payment of Union Representatives during Local Negotiations.
This letter is intended to clarify the understandings agreed to during the course of negotiations, pertaining to the payment of such Representatives during such negotiations.
The parties agreed that the following principles would be applicable to the payment of Union Representatives only during the negotiations of the Local Negotiations and would not be used as grounds or basis for claiming that such principles should be extended to other negotiations.	: ,	'
! I
1.	Plant Chairpersons of the Plant Shop Committees would be paid for time spent during Local Negotiations meetings and time spent in Union caucus relevant to such negotiations.
In the event such time would involve overtime hours, and the Plant Shop Chairperson would otherwise be entitled to overtime if said Plant Chairperson had been in the plant, the Corporation agrees to pay overtime up to this entitlement as long as the Plant Chairperson continued in such meetings or caucus.
In the event overtime became available in the plant and the Plant Chairperson was not involved in such meetings and caucus, the Plant Chairperson would be paid for such overtime only for time spent in the plant to the extent of this overtime entitlement.
The Skilled Trades Chairperson would be treated the same as a Plant Chairperson.
2.	The Corporation agreed that alternate Representatives would be recognized only to the extent that additional cost relative to the representation in a given jurisdiction was not incurred.
167
For purposes of example, the Plant Shop Chairperson’s alternate and the Committeeperson’s alternate would be allowed to function whereas the alternate steward would not be recognized.
3.	The Corporation agreed that Union Representatives on the Local Negotiation Bargaining Committee would not be required to punch their time cards in their respective plants.
The Corporation further agreed that suitable arrangements would be made to administer the recording of hours and payment for such Representatives during thecourse of Local Negotiations.
4.	The Union agreed that the continuation of such arrangements was contingent upon the mutual satisfaction of the parties and that upon notice to the Union that such procedure had been abused, the Corporation could dissociate itself from such arrangements.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
168
October 2$ 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(9)
Grievance Procedure
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
Both parties to the Production and Maintenance Agreement signed today acknowledge the desirability of ensuring prompt and lair resolution of employee grievances. The parties also acknowledge the importance of the requirements set forth in Sections (35) Notice of Suspension, Disciplinary Layoff or Discharge and (36) Union Representation. The attached flow chart illustrates the proper sequence of procedural steps to be used in processing employee grievances.
The Corporation assures the Union that it is interested in seeing that all grievances receive prompt and objective consideration on their merits. The Union assures the Corporation that it will make a sincere and determined effort to keep the procedure free of unmeritorious grievances.
Also, during our recent contract negotiations the Corporation pointed out that Special Conferences, as provided for in Section (16), are in some instances being used to circumvent The Grievance Procedure. Such action hinders the expeditious handling of grievances. The parties agree Section (I 6) was not intended to provide the means for circumvention and abuse of the Grievance Procedure and will put forth their best efforts to eliminate any such abuse.
‘To further assist in expediting the handling of a grievance, it is understood if a grievance has not been resolved in Step 2 or Step 3 of the grievance procedure within forty-five (45) days after its appeal from the previous Step, unless held over by mutual agreement between the parties for further discussion, the representative of Management at that Step may answer the grievance in writing without a meeting.
The parties also discussed problems created as a result of the submission of written grievances containing insufficient in-
169
formation. It is agreed that each grievance submitted in writing shall set forth in reasonable detail the date and nature of the grievance, identity of the employee or employees involved by name, seniority date, classification or location, insofar as diligent effort will allow, and the provisions of the applicable agreement, if any, that the Union claims the Corporation has violated. Management’s answers will set forth facts taken into account in answering the grievance.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANA DA)
By Robert White
170
171
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(10)
Reinstated Grievances
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During negotiations of the Production and Maintenance Agreement, the parties acknowledged the desirability of ensuring prompt, fair and final resolution of employee grievances. The parties also recognized that the maintenance of a stable, effective and dependable grievance procedure is necessary to implement the foregoing principle to which they both subscribe. Accordingly, the parties view any attempt to reinstate a grievance properly disposed of as contrary to the purpose for which the grievance procedure was established and violative of the fundamental principles of collective bargaining.
However, in those instances where the National Union (CAW-Canada), by either its (i) Executive Board, (ii) Public Review Board or (iii) Constitutional Convention Appeals Committee has reviewed the disposition of a grievance and found that such disposition was improperly effected by the Union or a Union representative involved, the National Union may inform the Manager Staff Labour Relations in writing that such grievance is reinstated in the grievance procedure at the step at which the original disposition of the grievance occurred.
It is agreed, however, that the Corporation will not be liable for any claims for damages, including back pay claims, arising out of the grievance that either (i) are already barred under the provisions of the aforementioned Agreement at the time of the reinstatement of the grievance or (ii) that relate to the period between the time of the original disposition and the time of the reinstatement as provided herein. It is further agreed that the reinstatement of any such grievance shall be conditioned upon the prior agreement of the Union and the employee or employees involved that none of them will thereafter pursue such claims for damages against the Corporation in the grievance procedure, or
172
in any court or before any Federal, provincial, or municipal agency.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a decision of the Impartial Chairperson of the Appeal Board or any other arbitrator on any grievance shall continue to be final and binding on the Union and its members, the employee or employees involved and the Corporation and such grievance shall not be subject to reinstatement.
This letter is not to be construed as modifying in any way either the rights or obligations of the parties under the terms of the aforementioned Agreement except as specifically limited herein, and does not affect sections thereof that cancel financial liability or limit the payment or retroactivity of any claim, including claims for back wages, or that provide for the final and binding nature of any Appeal Board decisions or other grievance resolutions.
It is understood this letter agreement and the Corporation’s obligations to reinstate grievances as provided herein can be terminated by either party upon thirty (30) days notice in writing to the other.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
173
October 25, 1990
(11)
Time Limit on Claims
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In the past there have been limited situations in which the Corporation and the National Union have mutually agreed that, notwithstanding the provisions of Section (26), Time Limit on Claims, equity and fairness dictated that the time limits be waived regarding (a) claims by an employee or by the Union, including claims for back wages, and (b) deductions from an employee’s wages to recover overpayments.
This letter will confirm that in such instances of mutual agreement between the Staff Labour Relations Department and the National Union, the limitations set forth in Section (26) may continue to be waived in order to provide equitable and fair resolution of such matters.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
174
October 25,1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(12)
Grievance Disciplinary Action
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In response to your demand made during the current negotiations, we have agreed that during discussions as early as Step 2 of the grievance procedure of grievances over discipline, discharge and other terminations from employment, each party will present a statement of position reciting facts then known on which it relies, and a copy of a document or statement on which the party relies to support its position.
In the case of a document covering, or statement by, an employee who is not the grievant, the party relying on it may excise, block out, or otherwise remove, information on it that is not relevant or that would disclose the identity of the person who made the statement or concerning whom the document refers.
In cases where a prior disciplinary record is involved, the Corporation may present a written summary of the grievant’s disciplinary record.
The statement of position and other statements and documents that a party has provided the other shall become part of the grievance file and may be referred to in subsequent steps of the grievance procedure, including the Appeal Board.
The failure or refusal of the Union to present a full oral explanation of its position shall relieve the Corporation from presenting any statement or document on which it relies. The failure or refusal of a party to make available to the other a copy of a document or statement which it has in its possession and on which the party relies shall preclude the party from using it before the Appeal Board.
The Corporation expressed its concern that its providing to Local Union representatives involved in processing grievances copies of employee statements and corporate documents relating
175
to employees may lead to abuses unless the statements and documents (i) are used solely in connection with the proper processing of a grievance, (ii) are otherwise kept confidential, and (iii) are not in any way used by any member of the bargaining unit to attempt to harass or intimidate an employee giving a statement or providing a document. The Union assured the Corporation that it will instruct its Local and National Representatives of these restrictions on the use of such material and the need to maintain confidentiality. The Union further represents that if a copy of a statement or document provided it in accordance with this Letter Agreement is used by its representatives or those under their control for any purpose other than the proper processing of a grievance or is publicized outside of the grievance procedure, the Corporation would be relieved of any obligation under this Letter Agreement at the plant where the abuse occurred.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Fraricese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
176
October 25,1990
(13)
Application of Section (35)
Attention: Mr. Robert White
Dear Sirs:
This is to confirm our understanding concerning the application of Section (35) Notice of Suspension, Disciplinary Layoff or Discharge of the 1990 Production and Maintenance Agreement as it relates to employees who are terminated for inability to perform assigned work.
When an employee, including a probationary employee who has worked more than thirty (30) days, is terminated for inability to perform assigned work, plant management will provide written notice pursuant to Section (35).
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL. UNION  By Robert White
177
October 25, 1990 (14)
Discipline on Afternoon and Midnight Shifts
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During these negotiations the Union raised the issue of the disciplinary procedure as applied to the afternoon and midnight shifts in certain plants.
Any such problems may be brought to the Plant Human Resources Manager for discussion.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
178
January 20,197 1
(15)
Discipline On Standards
Dear Mr. Alexander:
In Appeal Board Case No. 1664 the Impartial Chairman said that “the mere presence of proof of failure to meet a rate of production requires the Chairman to approve the propriety of discipline unless, by some means other than a showing of noncompliance with Sections (46)-(48) (now Section (44)) it is established that the fault did not lie with the employee.” Neverlheless, the undersigned agree that the provisions of Section (44) (c) of the National Production and Maintenance Agreement dated November 2,1961, give the Appeal Board power and authority to determine the propriety of the penalty imposed by management in disciplinary discharges and layoffs for violation of Section (59), Work Standards, of said Agreement, and that the mere presence of proof of an employee’s failure to meet a disputed work standard does not require the Appeal Board or the Chairman to approve the propriety of the discipline assessed to an employee.
The disposition of any such case shall be on the merits but shall not involve the propriety of any disputed work standard or work load assignment perfonned by the grievant or grievants.
In any such determination, the Appeal Board will take into consideration any relevanl facts occurring prior and subsequent to the time the penalty in question was imposed.
This letter shall not be construed to limit or otherwise impair any right Section (2) reserves to the Corporation, including the right to establish and maintain work standards or rates of production and to discipline employees.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CORPORATION By Gervid Atkinson
Accepted and Approved:
INTERNATIONAL UNION, UAW By Douglas A. Fraser
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(16)
Work Standards
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In making employee assignments in its plants, management makes a sincere effort to assign work to employees in such a manner that they may perform it in the time and space required by using the prescribed method, tools and materials and by working at a normal pace.
It is recognized, however, that disputes may arise regarding such assignments. Section (39) of the Agreement provides an orderly method of resolving such disputes. In implementing the provisions of Section (39) in its plants, the following points confirm the understandings reached in our recent meetings on the subject:
1.	The Local Union Time Study Representative may attend meetings to discuss disputed work assignments, in the Windsor area only.
2.	Providing the number of requests is not unreasonable, Elemental Breakdowns will be promptly furnished the Union upon request. It is understood that if it is necessary to time study an operation prior to furnishing the Elemental Breakdown, a slight delay may result.
3.	When an Elemental Breakdown has been requested, employees on the disputed operation, if a work standard has not been established, will not be disciplined in connection with the dispute until the Union has been furnished the Elemental Breakdown. Once a standard has been established and the Union has been furnished the Elemental Breakdown, employees may be disciplined for failure to obtain the standard notwithstanding the fact the standard may be in dispute.
II. is agreed that the foregoing understandings are made in a good faith effort by the parties to resolve employee assignment disputes on a timely and equitable basis. If experience indicates
180
that this end is not being served, the understandings may be
terminated by either party upon two (2) weeks notice.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL. UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
181
October 25,1990 (17)
Hiring Practice
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In hiring new production and maintenance employees it will be our practice to give serious consideration to the employment applications of qualified persons who have lost their seniority by reason of layoffs at plants of the Corporation.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
182
October 2!\ 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(18)
Preferential Hires
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the recently concluded negotiations, the Union expressed great concern regarding seniority employees who are indefinitely laid off as a result of a permanent discontinuance of operations or other reduction in force without reasonable likelihood of recall.
he Corporation stated it shared the Union’s concern and advised the Union that during the term of the Agreement such employees may apply for preferential hiring opportunities at other Company plants covered by the Production and Maintenance Agreement during the term of the new agreement. Seniority employees who wish to apply shall file application for placement within six (6) months of layoff at their local Employment Office.
Such employees shall be given preference for placement on available work, or if none is available, the opportunity to displace probationary employees on jobs for which they are qualified in other plants covered by the Agreement as might be specified by mutual agreement between the Corporation’s Labour Relations Staff and the National Union.
Any employee hired pursuant to this provision shall enter the new plant with date of entry seniority and shall not while so employed be subject to recall to the plant from which said employee was laid off. When permanently laid off from such new plant the employee shall elect to (a) retain seniority in the new plant, or (b) return to the former plant with full accumulated seniority, in which case the employee’s seniority at all other plants shall terminate. Any employee who upon layoff fails or refuses to make the election set forth above shall be deemed to have elected to retain seniority in the plant from which the employee was last laid off.
183
An employee accepting work under the provisions of this letter shall retain rights accrued for purposes of holiday pay, payment in lieu of vacation, pensions, insurance, and the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan.
It is understood that the separation of an employee from the new plant for a reason other than ability to perform the assigned work shall result in the termination of the employee’s seniority at all plants.
It is recognized that the Corporation has to maintain ability to promptly fill employment requirements and assure that personnel are capable of performing jobs. Within this context, the Corporation shall endeavour to place applicants in seniority order, consistent with their prior job experience. It is understood that placement on the basis of seniority will not be feasible in every instance.
Employees who refuse an initial offer to work pursuant to these preferential placement arrangements shall be ineligible for further coverage under these provisions except for a onetime opportunity to reapply within thirty (30) days following a six-month period after the offer.
The preferential hiring arrangements covered by this letter contain potentially complex administrative implications and there may be times the Corporation may not be able to fully conform with these provisions. Accordingly, the Corporation shall not be liable for any back pay on any claims arising from the administration of this letter.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA) Ely Robert White
184
October 2.5 1990
(19)
Preferential Hires - Plant Closure
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the 1990 negotiations, in conjunction with discussions regarding the Job and Income Security Program, the parties discussed the application of the preferential placement guidelines contained in Letter (1 8) dated October 25,1990.
The parties agree that in circumstances involving a plant closure exceptions will be made to the arrangements specified in the Preferential Hires Letter (18) dated October 25, 1990 such that employees who transfer to another location will receive an adjusted seniority date at the new location which will be the date that notice of closure was given to the Union. Employees would be canvassed for Preferential Hire considerations and offered the oppoitunity to select up to two (2) plants to which they would exercise hiring rights. As job opportunities occur at a receiving plant, employees will be contacted in seniority order and offered employment. Employment offers may be made prior to the actual plant closing. If an employee declines the employment opportunity, such employee shall be removed from the list for that plant after which the employee shall become eligible for normal preferential hire rights as specified in the Preferential Hires Letter dated October 25,1990. Such employees, when transferred to an opening at the new location, may displace employees hired at that location after the date the notice of closure was provided to the Union.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
185
October 25, 1990
(20)
Temporary Part-Time Employees
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
We had several discussions concerning the Supplemental Agreement — Temporary Part-Time Employees.
The parties signed the Supplemental Agreement -Temporary Part-Time Employees and further agreed that the National Union, may cancel such Agreement because of abuses by giving the Corporation thirty (30) days advance notice.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL  By Robert White
186
October 25, 1990
(21)
Supervisors Working
Attention: Mr. Robert White
Dear Sirs:
It is the express policy of the Corporation that supervisory personnel are for the purpose of carrying out supervisory functions and are not expected to displace employees covered by this Agreement.
However, a supervisory employee may perform operations where an emergency arises out of unforeseen circumstances which calls for immediate action to avoid interruption of operations and the supervisor may also perform operations for purposes of instruction or training as may be necessary in the discharge of supervisory duties, provided that the act of performing the aforementioned operations in itself does not reduce oi affect the hours of work or pay of any employee covered by this Agreement.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
187
October 25, 1990
(22)
Bereavement Pay
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During these negotiations the parties agreed to the following interpretations of the bereavement pay provisions of Section (60) of this Agreement.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL 
By Robert White
88
I
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
II
12
n
BEREAVEMENT PAY INTERPRETATIONS
M	T	W	TH	F	S	S	M	T	W	TH	F
	NW	NW	NW								
D	P	P	P								
VV	NW	NW	NW	NW							
I)	P	H	P	P							
VV	NW	NW	NW	NW							
D	F	H	P	P							
	P		W	NW	NW	NW	NW	NW			
			D	P	F		P	P			
w	NW	NW	NW	NW	NW	NW	NW				
E)	P	P	H	H	r		P				
W	NW	NW	NW	NW							
D	P	P	P	F							
				NP							
w	w	w	W	w	w	w	NW	NW	NW		
D							F	P	P		
							P				
				W	W	NW	NW	NW	NW		
				D	F		NP	NP	NP		
	W	NW	W	W	NW	NW	NW	NW			
	D	P			F		P	NP			
PW<4)	N W	N W	PW<4)								
D	P	P	P(4)								
NP											
PW(3)	NW	N W	PW(4)								
D	P	P	NP								
P(5>			W	NW	NW	NW	NW	NW	NW	NW	NW
			D	P			P	P	F	H	NP
									NP	NP	
w	NW	NW	NW	NW	NW	NW	NW				
D	P	D	P	P			P				
		P									
189
KEY
w	- Worked the Full Day	F	- Day of Funeral
PW	- Worked a Partial Day	P	- Bereavement Pay Paid
PW(3)	- Worked 3 Hours Only	NP	- Day Not Paid
PW(4)	- Worked 4 Hours Only	P(4)	Bereavement Pay
NW	- Day Not Worked		Paid for 4 Hours
H	Holiday	P(5)	- Bereavement Pay
D	-Day of Death		Paid for 5 Hours
	EXPLANATION OF	INTERPRETATION	
1.	Paid for 3 days immediately following the date of death.
2.	Holiday excluded from 3 days after death rule.
3.	Two calendar days after funeral rule does not limit 3 days after death	rule.
4.	Saturdays and Sundays excluded from 3 days after death rule.
5.	Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays all excluded from 3 days after death	rule.
6.	Will not be paid for day of funeral because already paid for 3 days.
7.	Delayed funeral. Worked through Friday and is paid for 2 calendar days after funeral.
8.	Working on day of funeral interrupts bereavement pay even if funeral is on Saturday.
9.	Beat of two rules (3 days after death, 2 calendar days after funeral) provide pay for 2 days only, weekend days will not be paid.
10.	Paid for time not worked during 3 days — not paid for total of 24 working hours.
11.	Will be paid for partial day that produces most bereavement pay. including day of death, if took time off.
12.	First 3 days of eligibility for Bereavement Pay will be paid eve” if absent more than 3 days.
13.	Activeemployee. Death of covered family memberson Monday and Wednesday. 3 days immediately following the date of death rules applied to both deaths.
190
October 2‘j 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(23)
Pay Practices
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In the negotiations of the Production and Maintenance Agreement between Chrysler Canada Ltd. and the CAW dated today certain interpretations were developed. The Corporation’s interpretation of the applicable sections of the Agreement will be as follows:
1.	Saturday work. Section (64) provides:
“Time and one-half will be paid as follows, except as provided in Section (66):
“(b) — For time worked on Saturday, except when a shift starts on Friday and continues into Saturday; provided that hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week on such shift will be paid at time and one-half.”
In interpreting Section (64) (b), it is understood that employees who work a shift on Saturday or Friday into Saturday that normally would be their sixth day worked but have not yet worked five (5) straight time shifts in the workweek due to an absence during the workweek will receive time and one-half foi the hours worked on Saturday. This interpretation is intended to cover the third shift Sunday Night Start employee who works a sixth scheduled shift, and the first or second shift employee in the situation covered by Appeal Board Case No. 3855.
2.	Saturday following a holiday. Except as specified in Paragraph 1 above, employees whose shift begins on Friday and who work into a Saturday do not receive time and one-half for work on Saturday. A holiday falling during a workweek has no effect on the payment of premium for Saturday work.
3.	Work into a new workweek. The workweek is defined in Section (7 I).
“The regularly scheduled workweek starts at 12:01 a.m., Monday, and ends 168 hours thereafter, except those employees on third shift operations starting Sunday night in which case theii
191
regularly scheduled workweek starts with the beginning of their shift Sunday night and ends 168 hours thereafter.” It is understood that this includes thoseemployees onseven-day operations.
Accordingly, (I) a third shift employee who begins a shift on Sunday and works into Monday will receive double time for hours worked on Sunday and straight time for the hours worked on Monday; (2) a second shift employee who works a shift that starts Sunday andcontinues into Monday will be paid double time for hours worked on Sunday and time and one-half for hours worked on Monday, provided such hours on Monday are in excess of 40 straight-time hours worked during the week in which the Sunday falls. If such hours on Monday are not in excess of 40, such hours will be paid at straight time until the employee accumulates 40 straight-time hours, and then hours in excess of 40 will be paid at time and one-half. If Monday is a holiday, such hours will be paid at double time.
The above paragraph does not apply to employees on seven-day operations.
The chart attached to this letter illustrates the interpretations set forth above.
4.	Seven-Day Operations. Section (66) of the Agreement now provides:
“Employees working on what are normally classified as seven-day operations will not be paid overtime or premium pay in accordance with Sections (64) and (65) above, but will be paid as follows:
“[a) — Time and one-half for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any continuous twenty-four (24) hour period beginning with the starting time of the employee’s shift or in excess of forty (40) hours per week.
“(b) — Time and one-half for time worked on the sixth (6th) day of the employee’s scheduled workweek.
“(c) — Double time for time worked on the seventh (7th) consecutive scheduled day whether or not the seven consecutive scheduled days fall in the same workweek.
192
“(d) —For the purposes of Subsections (b) and (c), a holiday specified in Section (74) for which an employee receives holiday pay or on which the employee performs work will be considered as a day worked. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section (68), a holiday counted in determining an employee’s eligibility for payment pursuant to Subsection (b) may also be counted in determining the same employee’s eligibility foi payment pursuant to Subsection (c).
“(e) -- Double time and one-half for time worked on any of the days on which any of the designated full holidays is observed unless the holiday falls on one of the employee’s regularly scheduled days off in which event the employee, in addition to holiday pay under Section (84), will be paid double time for time worked.
“(f) -- Time and one-quarter for time worked on a Sunday that is not compensable at a higher overtime rate under any other provision of this Agreement.”
An employee who performs maintenance duties in the powerhouse and who is normally scheduled to work Monday through Friday, and an employee, who is assigned to attend or maintain an auxiliary equipment installation that operates in conjunction with five-day operations, shall not be deemed to be working on an operation covered by Section (66).
5.	The provisions of Sections (64) and (65) shall not preclude mutually satisfactory local arrangements to the effect that when an employee is transferred to a different shift as the result of a reduction in the working force the employee’s previous twenty-four (24) hour period shall terminate for purposes of computing overtime, and the shift to which the employee is transferred shall be regarded as the beginning of a new twenty-four (24) hour period. This provision shall not require a change in any existing local arrangement on this matter.
6.	Section (63), Shift Premium and Flours, provides:
“(a) -- Employees regularly employed on the second or third shift shall receive in addition to their regular pay for
193
the pay period five (5) per cent and ten (IO) per cent, respectively, additional compensation.
“(b) — The first shift is any shift that regularly starts on 01 after 4:00 a.m. but before 11:00 a.m. The second shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 11:00 a.m. but before 7:00 p.m. The third shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 7:00 p.m. but before 4:00 a.m.”
Hourly employees who are scheduled to work and work a shift other than their regularly scheduled shift, will receive the premium provided in Section (63).
For example, an employee is normally scheduled to work 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. On Friday the employee is scheduled to work and works a shift from 3:30 p.m. to 12:00 midnight. The employee will receive second shift premium for those hours on Friday.
First shift employees who are scheduled to work and who do work additional hours in advance of their regular shift starting time will receive the shift premium applicable to their advanced starting time for all hours worked on such shift.
For example, a first shift employee is normally scheduled to work 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. On Friday the employee is scheduled to work and works a shift from 3:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. The employee will receive third shift premium for those hours on Friday.
7.	These interpretations shall be effective with the effective date of the Production and Maintenance Agreement dated today and shall apply during the teim of said Agreement.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CAN AD A) By Robert White
194
PAYMENT FOR TIME WORKED ON HOLIDAYS. SATURDAYS. OR SUNDAYS EXAMPLE: NORMAL HOLIDAY
	1 Sun. 1 Mon.		Tues.	Holiday { Wed. j Thurs.		T 1 Fri. | Sat.		Sun.
Third Shift	Ejl r ~ . i 1 1		"i r i i	7S9 w a			u— ■	
1 =fst Shift p-		1	1 1 1 o 1 1 —1		■ i i jj	i_	■ o		T	1“	 II	1 1 — . IJ 1 . IH		
! Second Shift	i mi n					1 n	i ^	:
(uvenappmgj Second Shift						i r	~i ^	
(Monday Nite Start) Third Shift			fla fh r			i r	n m	
Straight Tima
Time and One-Half
Double Time
October 25, 1990
(24) Paid Lunch
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
This will confirm our understanding that in applying Section (69) (b) of the Production and Maintenance Agreement, the Corporation intends to do the following:
When production employees are assigned full time on a regular basis to all three shifts in a production department and the number of production employees on the least populated shift exceeds 50% of the number of employees on the most populated shift in that production department, all the production employees in that department shall be scheduled to work 7 hours on each shift and shall have a lunch period of one-quarter hour and shall receive eight (8) hours pay.
It is understood that this arrangement does not apply to repair departments in assembly plants or employees in nonproductive or indirect labour departments such as inspection, material, maintenance, janitors, etc., except for those employees assigned exclusively on a full-time and regular basis to the production department working 7 hours, in which case the non-productive or indirect employees will also be scheduled to work 7 hours and a one-quarter hour lunch period.
This application is not intended to interfere with any local agreement in effect on October 25, 1990 or to limit management’s right to apply the provision of Section (69) (a) under any circumstances.
If it is necessary to deviate from this application at any plant, the local union will be advised of the reasons and should any disputes arise as to the application of this Agreement and cannot be resolved at the local level, it will be immediately referred to the National Union and Chrysler Canada Ltd. for resolution.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
196
October 25,1990

Seven Day Operations
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
With respect to certain interpretations of Section (66) (c) of the Production and Maintenance Agreement, this will confirm our understanding that when an employee is scheduled to work a full shift on each of two consecutive calendar days, a twenty-four hour break between the end of the employee’s scheduled shift on the first such day and the beginning of the employee’s next scheduled shift on the following day will not be considered a break in consecutive scheduled days of work.
For purposes of the interpretation set forth above, the scheduled shift for third shift employees shall be considered to fall on the calendar day on which the shift ends.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
197
October 25,1990 (26)
Starting Times in Plants
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In the negotiations leading to the current collective bargaining agreement, the Union acknowledged that business considerations in the Corporation Plants often require a change of shift starting times.
It is the policy of the Corporation to advise the Union of the need to change shift starting times prior to implementing such change as well as to advise the Union of the reasons for such
change.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
198
October 25, 1990
3rd Shift
Sunday Night Start
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During negotiations leading to the new collective bargaining agreement signed today, the parties discussed the feasibility of converting all third shift operations to a Sunday night start.
The parties recognize that in certain plants it is essential that third shift operations continue to start the work week on Monday night due to operating requirements.
Under certain conditions which are acceptable to both the Local Union and the Management of a particular plant, arrangements may be made whereby third shift operations which start on Monday night may, by mutual agreement, be changed to start on Sunday night subject to the approval of the National Union and the Staff Labour Relations Department of the Corporation.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
199
October 25, 1990
(28)
Probationary
P & M Employees Formerly On Salary
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In the past the Union has expressed its concern regarding long seivice salaried employees of the Corporation who do not qualify for holiday pay after being hired into an hourly Production and Maintenance bargaining unit because they had not acquired seniority in such unit on the date of the holiday.
In the event such situation should occur, a Representative of the National Union may discuss the matter with the Manager of Labour Relations of Chrysler Canada Ltd.
‘Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD, By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL  By Robert White
200
October 25, 1990
(29)
Holiday Pay - Attending CAW Leadership Training Program
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
This will confirm our understanding reached during the 1990 negotiations concerning an employee’s holiday pay eligibility while on an approved leave of absence to participate in the CAW Leadership Training Program. The Company agrees that when a designated holiday as provided in Section (74) occurs during such a leave of absence the employee will qualify for holiday pay.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
201
October 25,1990
(30)
86 (f) Eligibility
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
This will confirm that, notwithstanding the provisions of Section (86) (f) of the Production and Maintenance Agreement dated today, an employee continuously disabled from work by compensable injury or legal occupational disease that began before October 25,1979 shall continue to accrue credit toward pay periods worked for pay periods the employee would otherwise have been scheduled to work during the period of compensable disability even though such employee has not worked at least one (1) pay period in the eligibility year.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
202
October 25, 1990 Special Payment 
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During these negotiations it was agreed by the Company and Ihe Union that employees who are eligible for payment-in-lieu of vacation in accordance with the provisions of Section (86) will receive a special payment of $500.00 in the first week of July each year of this Agreement provided they are on the roll June 30th of each year.
Employees who qualify for only a portion of their payment-in-lieu of vacation under Section (86) will receive the same proportion of this payment.
Employees not on the active roll of the Company on June 30th but who are subsequently reinstated to the active roll during the current vacation year will be paid the special payment either at the time they take their vacation or at the end of the vacation year.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
203
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(32)
Holiday - Occuring in Week of Scheduled Vacation Shut-Down
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
When a holiday(s) defined in Section (74) occurs in a week of a plant’s scheduled vacation shut-down, holiday pay for eligible employees will not be paid. Each employee will be canvassed and a mutually satisfactory alternative date will be determined for each employee to take the time off with pay. Arrangements will be made to pay eligible employees the holiday pay to which they are entitled at that time.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
204
October 25, 1990
Vacation and  Encouragement to Take Time Ofl
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the 1990 negotiations, the parties discussed the Payment in Lieu of Vacation and Paid Absence Allowance Plan and its purpose of providing employees with paid time away from work during the course of the year.
While the parties recognize that circumstances may arise that prevent full utilization of such paid time off, they agreed that employees should be encouraged to take their vacation time, rather than pay in lieu. In this regard, the Company agreed that it would conduct its business in a manner consistent with such encouragement.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL. UNION  By Robert White
205
October 25, 1990
Accumulation of Higher Classifications.
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
The Corporation’s practices on accumulating time on higher classifications are as follows:
1.	It is recognized that under certain circumstances it is necessary for employees to be regularly assigned to do work that falls within two or more hourly classifications with different rates of pay. The employee so assigned will be classified on the higher classification provided the employee spends 50% or more of the employee’s time on the work of the higher classification. In such cases no reduction in rate will be made for the time worked on the lower classification.
2.	An employee assigned, whether temporarily or on a regular and recurring basis, to a job with a higher classification for one or more hours of a shift shall be paid at the rate of the higher classification for all hours worked on that shift. The Corporation has instructed its supervisors to maintain accurate records of time accumulated on higher classifications, and to process for payment any accumulation of such time on a pay period basis. Whenever requested to do so by an employee and, in any event, before submitting the request for payment of accumulated time, the Supervisor will show to the employee the copy of the Hourly Rate Adjustment Notice retained by the Supervisor and permit the employee to copy any information from it.
An employee assigned, whether temporarily or on a regular and recurring basis, to a job with a higher classification for less than one hour on a shift shall receive the rate of the lower classification for all hours worked on that shift.
3.	A seniority employee assigned, whether temporarily or on a regular and recurring basis, to a job with a higher classifi-
206
cation who receives the rate of a higher classification shall
be paid the full base rate of the higher classification.
4.	This letter regarding, accumulation of time will not be applicable to local plant agreements regarding division of overtime covering classifications paying different rates, or to the assignment of Union representatives where such assignment is made for representation.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA) By Robert White
207
October 25, 1990
(35)
Reclassification
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
Where an employee has held a particular hourly classification and rate while performing the same job for a period of one (I) or more years, and Management determines that the classification is improper for the job in question, Management may reclassify the job to the appropriate hourly classification, but the employee’s rate of pay while assigned or reassigned to that job will not be changed. The proper classification and rate of pay shall apply to any future employee on the job so reclassified. This shall not preclude the Union from protesting the propriety of such reclassifications through the grievance procedure.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL  By Robert White
208
National Union (CAW-Canada)
October 25, 1990
(36) COLA -Calculation
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
This letter is to confirm certain agreements reached by Chrysler Canada Ltd. arid the National Union, CAW, regarding the calculation of the Cost-of-Living Allowance pursuant to Section (90) of this Agreement.
It was agreed that the parties shall calculate the monthly Consumer Price Index beginning with the month of August 1990, using the Consumer Price Index (198 1 =100) for August, 1990, published (in September 1990) by Statistics Canada.
The table in Section (90) has been constructed to provide that 10 adjustments in the Cost-of-Living Allowance shall become payable for 0.1 change in the Index.
Following the adjustment in the Cost-of-Living Allowance effective December 3,1990, the Table set forth in Section (90) of the 1990 Chrysler-CAW Collective Agreement will be discontinued. Beginning with the adjustment for March 4, 199 1, the three-month average of the Consumer Price Index (1986 = 100) for August, September and October 1990 will be substituted for the Consumer Price Index (1981 = 100) as determined above for the same three-month period.
The average for the three-month period August, September and October, 1990 will be subtracted from the current three-month quarterly average and the allowance will be adjusted by 1 d for each full .073 change in the three-month average. A new table, to replace the discontinued table and reflecting this new COLA, will be provided to the Union.
Adjustments in the Cost-of-Living Allowance shall be effective March 4, 1991 and thereafter pursuant to the specific provisions of the Collective Agreement in accordance with movement of the Consumer Price Index.
209
In applying the provisions of Section (90) of the Agreement, the Corporation shall prepare a notification letter to the Union setting forth the Consumer Price Index for each of the three months that form the basis for an adjustment, and the average of those three months, rounded to the nearest 0.1 index point using the Engineering Method of Rounding as described in the Attachment. This letter will be prepared and sent to the Union after publication of the appropriate Consumer Price Indexes for the third month used for each adjustment period in accordance with Section (90), Subsection (b) of the Agreement.
If the Union claims that the Corporation’s calculations in any particular instance were not made in accordance with the terms of this letter of understanding, it may refer the matter to the Appeal Board.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
210
Attachment
ENGINEERING METHOD OF ROUNDING
The following rules of rounding shall apply to the determination of the Combined Consumer Price Index:
1.	If the leftmost of the digits discarded is less than 5, the preceding digit is not affected. For example, when rounding to four digits, 130.646 becomes 130.6.
2.	If the leftmost of the digits discarded is greater than 5, or is 5 followed by digits not all of which are zero, the preceding digit is increased by one. For example, when rounding to four digits, 130.557 becomes 130.6.
3.	If the leftmost of the digits discarded is 5, followed by zero, the preceding digit is increased by one if it is odd and remains unchanged if it is even. The number is thus rounded in such a manner that the last digit retained is even. For example, when rounding to four digits, 130.5500 becomes 130.6 and 130.6500 becomes 130.6.
21 I
October 25, 1990
(37)
Wage Progression
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the Corporation’s practice with respect to the application of Section (95) (a) to certain employees laid off due to a reduction in force.
A probationary employee in a nonskilled trades classification separated due to a reduction in force and who is reinstated at a time which will permit accumulation of ninety (90) days of employment within one (I) year of the date of layoff as a probationary employee or a seniority employee in a nonskilled trades classification whose seniority was broken pursuant to Section (42) (a) 5 and is rehired shall continue progression to the full base rate of the job classification from the same relative position in the rate range the employee had attained prior to layoff.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
212
October 25, 1990
(38)
Wage Progression — Employee Covered by WCA
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the 1990 negotiations the parties agreed that employees disabled by sickness or injury covered by the Workers’ Compensation Act shall accrue credit towards weeks of employment worked for the purpose of determining their entitlement to the next wage progression rate.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL. UNION  By Robert White
213
‘October 25,1990
(39)
Wage Increases — Retroactive
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During these negotiations the parties agreed that the wage increases provided in Section (91) (a) and (91) (b) of the 1990 Chrysler-CAW Agreement will be applied retroactively to all hours compensated on and after September 17,1990.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL  By Robert White
214
October 25,1990
(40)
Wage Progression/ COLA Fold-In
Attention: Mr. Robert White
Dear Sirs:
For the purposes of administering the new hire provisions of the new Collective Agreement, it was agreed that employees hired prior to the effective date of the new Agreement who are governed by the provisions of Section (95) shall have the calculation of their base rate determined on the basis of 85%, 90%, or 95%, as the case may be, of the maximum base rate under the 1990 Agreement, except that the cost-of-living allowance fold-in effective the beginning of the pay period commencing on or after the receipt of notice of ratification will not be subject to the reduction to 85%, 90%, or 95%, as the case may be, but shall be transferred to base rate without reduction.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
215
October 25, 1990
(41)
Special Aclj. — Class. 0242
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
This letter will confirm our agreement to provide a special adjustment for employees on classification 0242 Assembler-Major. Effective September 16, 1991, following the application of the 2% improvement factor as provided in Section (91) (c), the base hourly rate for employees on classification 0242, and all other classifications which carry the same base rate, will be increased by one cent (10) per hour to $18.61 per hour.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL  By Robert White
216
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(42)
Tuition Refund
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
The Corporation offers and administers a tuition refund program under which employees will, under such terms and conditions as the Corporation may from time to time establish, receive a tuition refund not to exceed $1,000 a calendar yeai ($1,500 for the calendar year for approved courses taken at an accredited college) upon completion of an approved job-related course at an approved educational or training institution during non-working hours while on the active roll of the Company. Any refund made to an eligible employee will relate to the calendat year of completion of the approved course or courses.
The following programs are considered job related and will be approved when the needs cannot be met within the Corporation:
a.	— Courses which will improve the employee’s skill on the employee’s present job. This includes courses designed to update employees in the technology of their trade or occupation and courses directed toward qualifying an employee as an apprentice in the skilled trades. In this latter connection Chrysler Canada Ltd. will cooperate and work with approved educational and training institutions in the development of courses directed toward qualifying an employee as an apprentice in the skilled trades.
b.	— Courses which relate to the next job in the logical development of an employee’s career.
c.	— Courses which prepare an employee for openings that are expected to occur in the future and for which a sufficient number of qualified employees are not available.
cl. — Courses taken to complete the requirements for a grammar school certificate or high school diploma.
217
e.	-Any literacy courses or courses in fundamental reading and mathematics. These include courses usually designed to teach sixth grade competency in reading, writing and numerical skills.
f.	— Courses that are part of the regular curriculum of an accredited educational institution taken for degree credit leading to an Associate Degree or Bachelor’s Degree in Labour Studies.
g.	-Courses in industrial hygiene or safety related courses taken at approved educational institutions by the appointed Union member of a Local Committee on Health and Safety.
h.	— Any required or pertinent elective courses taken in a degree-seeking program in a field related to the employee’s job or appropriate to the employee’s career in Chrysler Canada Ltd.
The tuition refund, for courses which must be taken in the United States solely because they are not available in Canada, will be paid in United States currency.
In addition to the above, employees appointed as full-time Benefit Plans or Health and Safety Representatives pursuant to Letter (1) or Memorandum of Understanding Health and Safety who wish to enroll in courses of instruction relating to benefit plans or health and safety at approved educational institutions shall be eligible to apply for tuition refund for such courses subject to the terms and conditions of the Company’s Tuition Refund Program.
The Impartial Chairperson shall have no jurisdiction over any matter involving the establishment, administration or terms and provisions of such a tuition refund program.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA) By Robert White
218
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(43)
CAW Leadership Training Program
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During these negotiations the parties have discussed the labour education program developed by the Union for the purpose of upgrading the skills which employees utilize in all aspects of trade union functions and the matter of Company financial support of this program. This program, entitled the CAW Leadership Training Program, has received contributions from the Company since September of 1983.
In recognition, therefore, of the contributions this program can make to the improvement of the Union/Management relationship and toward a more effective administration of the Collective Agreement, the Company agrees as hereinafter set forth to make a grant to the CA.W Leadership Training Program (P.E.L. Trust).
Past Company contributions to the Leadership Training Program (P.E.L.) Trust have been deductible. Providing that such amounts shall continue to be deductible, the Company will make quarterly contributions to the P.E.L. Trust, equal to two cents ($.02) for each hour worked in the preceding thirteen (13) week period, on the following dates:
Hours Worked
10/01/90 ■ 12/31/90-04/01/91 07/01/91 09/30/91-12/30/9 1 -03/30/92 -06/29/92 -09/28/92 -12/28/92 -03/29/93-06/28/93 -
12/30/90
03/31/91
06/30/91
09/29/91
12/29/91
03/29/92
06/28/92
09/27/92
12/27/92
03/28/93
06/27/93
09/26/93
Payment Date 01/31/90 04/30/91 07/31/91 10/31/91 01/31/92 04/30/92 07/31/92 10/31/92 01/31/93 04/30/93 07/31/93 10/31/93
219
The Union will cooperate fully in providing the Company with all documents regarding the CAW Leadership Training Program (P.E.L. ‘Trust) as it may require in order to maintain the aforementioned Income Tax Ruling received from Revenue Canada, and related to the deductibility of amounts paid by the Company to the P.E.L. Trust.
It is understood and agreed that the portion of the P.E.L. Trust Fund represented by the Company’s contributions will be \ used solely and exclusively to provide paid educational leaves I and related benefits for employees of the Company who attend i sessions of the labour education program as described by the j Union during thesenegotiations. Annually the Union will provide i the Company with an audited statement prepared by an independent public accounting firm certifying that all expenditures made from the P.E.L. Trust Fund were made in accordance with the intent and purposes of the Trust Deed dated July 3,1979, establishing the P.E.L. Trust.
An educational leave of absence for participation in the Union’s program will be granted by the Company in accordance with Section (59) of the Production and Maintenance Agreement (and similar sections of other agreements which incorporate this program) to seniority employees designated by the President of the National Union to the Vice-President - Human Resources for the Company on four (4) weeks’ advance written notice specifying the employee’s name and dates of requested absence, provided no such absence will result in any loss of efficiency or disruption of operations at the Company’s plants.
Employees granted such leaves will be excused from work without pay for up to twenty (20) days of class time, plus travel time where necessary, said leaves of absence to be intermittent over a twelve (I 2) month period from the first day of leave during the term of the applicable collective bargaining agreement.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA) By Robert White
220
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(44)
Alcoholism and Drug Abuse
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:	'	^
During negotiations the parties 'reaffirmed their continuing conviction that it is important to provide assistance to employees afflicted with alcohol and drug dependence and to find ways to motivate them to recognize their problem and seek treatment where appropriate. Accordingly, the parties have expressed their mutual wish to continue their progress toward the common goal of achieving an effective alcohol and drug abuse program at Chrysler-CAW locations.
While the current Chrysler-CAW program has continued to develop and mature, it has become apparent that the most successful local programs are those that have enjoyed the full support of the respective plant managements and Local Unions. That support has led to different approaches to similar problems at the various locations. Difficulties of implementation that exist at one location may not exist at others. Solutions, in part at least, therefore, have to be tailor-made for the location. For example, the proximity or availability of approved treatment facilities, the suitability of places utilized for employee contact, and the prior existence of a union or government-sponsored program are all factors bearing on the success of an alcohol and drug abuse program at the local level.
The foregoing leads us to conclude that our joint endeavor should be to continue to assist local programs in developing methods that will moreeffectively encourage afflicted employees to seek assistance under the program and that will convince them of the privacy and confidentiality of such assistance. To this end, the National Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Committee, pursuant to the principles and guidelines previously established, will (i) analyze those causes that inhibit and those that foster employee utilization of the program at each location, (ii) establish proce-
221
dures for the confidential maintenance at each location of records of employees using the program, and (iii) communicate to all locations, when appropriate, those techniques that have proved successful at one or more locations. The National Committee will also continue to periodically review local programs to assist local management and local shop committees concerned with alcohol and drug abuse problems who believe they are experiencing difficulty in attaining program effectiveness.
Our experience under this program thus far shows that an effective company-wide program requires the full cooperation of management and Union alike. The joint efforts necessary to provide assistance to afflicted employees may, however, be complicated by many factors such as multi-shift operations, plant location and population, in-plant facility available for employee contact. plant layout, and the need for privacy. We mutually endorse reasonable and practical resolution to these problems where they exist.
Finally, the success that already has been achieved under the program indicates the commitment that both Chrysler and the CAW have toward helping employees with problems of alcohol and drug dependence. We will continue to monitorand assist with local program activities to assure the continued success and improvement of this Chrysler-CAW program.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By 
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
222
October 25, 1990
(45) Child Care
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During negotiations the parties discussed the subject of Child Care for CAW represented employees covered by the Agreements.	' 1
The parties agreed that arrangements may be made to finance the program by using available funds from the Special Contingency Fund up to one cent ($.01) per straight time hour worked during the term of the Agreement.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
223
October 25, 1990 (46)
Correctional Services — Temporary Absence Program
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In the course of current negotiations the Corporation and the Union had discussions concerning the loss of seniority by employees who had been approved by the Ministry of Correctional Services for release from jail under a Temporary Absence Work \ Release permit.
This letter is intended to clarify the understanding, agreed to during the course of negotiations, pertaining to such employees.
The Corporation agrees that in the situation in which the Ministry is prepared to release an employee from jail to attend work, the Corporation will not decline to participate in such a Temporary Absence Program provided the employee’s seniority would not otherwise be lost.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL 
Ely Robert White
224
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(47)
Employee Counselling Program
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
There is common recognition between the parties of the need to provide a support system for employees seeking assistance to handle personal problems which affect their performance in the work place. ‘The Substance Abuse Program has proved its effectiveness for providing treatment, and counselling opportunities, for employees suffering from alcohol or drug abuse. Experience has shown that there are other types of situations where employees suffer from problems relating to emotional, medical, family, or financial difficulties, among others, which can be addressed through professional guidance and counselling.
During the 1985 negotiations the parties agreed to undertake a joint program to provide counselling assistance to employees. The program is intended to assist employees to resolve personal problems. It is recognized that the local parties can best design a program to tit their specific needs. Accordingly, within ninety days following the effective date of this Agreement, each location under the Production and Maintenance Agreement may establish a joint employee counselling team consisting of one appointed by Management and one appointed by the Union, as specified on the chart contained hereinafter. ‘These counsellors will assist employees in dealing with personal problems. Employees in need of counselling assistance may be referred, on a voluntary basis, to the Union Counsellor. Referrals may be made by supervisors, Union Representatives, or by direct contact between the employee and the Union Counsellor.
In order to provide counselling, a Union-appointed counsellor will be permitted to leave regular work during straight time hours in accordance with the specified periods of time indicated for each bargaining unit location on the following chart:
225
Number of	Number of	Time Allowed to Function
Employees at	Union	During
the Location	Counsellors	Straight Time Hours
1 —199	1 part time	up to 4.0 hours per week as required
00 — 1,999	1 part time	up to 8.0 hours per week as required
,000 — 9,999	1	up to 40.0 hours per week as required
The Management appointed counsellors will provide assistance as required consistent with the time provided for a Union counsellor.
The Union Counsellor will not be scheduled for Saturday, Sunday, Holiday or daily overtime work except as a regular employee in the department and when so scheduled shall not function as a Union Counsellor; provided, however, when more than 50% of the regular hourly workforce in a plant or 2000 or more hourly employees are scheduled to work during hours for which they are entitled to receive premium pay under either Section (64) or Section (65) of the Production and Maintenance Agreement, the Union Counsellor for that plant will also be scheduled to work and to function as a Union Counsellor during such hours.
To assure basic consistency, all local programs shall be developed within the framework of the following guidelines:
1.	A training program will be developed for Supervisors and Union Representatives to assist them to identify and refer employees to Counsellors.
2.	Community resources should be surveyed by members of the local counselling team to determine the availability of appropriate treatment facilities and the timeliness and cost of available treatment. Where facilities are unavailable, or where there are lengthy delays for appointments, the joint counselling team should work within the community to
226
upgrade: the level of services and improve the timeliness of treatment.
3.	Accurate statistics should be maintained to periodically measure the effectiveness of the program and make mutually satisfactory adjustments in the mechanics of the program. It is understood that records must be maintained in a confidential manner in the interest of each employee’s privacy.
4.	Involvement in the program is voluntary on the part of the employee.
5.	There may be a need for occasional specialized professional services in some circumstances. The joint counselling team should examine the needs of the work force in this regard and make recommendations to Management regarding such special services.
6.	The local joint counselling teams should participate, under the coordination of the National Union and Staff Labour Relations, in the development of administrative guidelines for counsellors. Such guidelines should be reviewed and evaluated periodically to further assist the counsellors in providing effective assistance to employees.
It is recognized that employees with personal problems often are unavailable for work. An essential by-product of employee assistance is to enable the employee to remain at work oi to return employees to work who are often absent.
If assistance is required by the local parties in the development of the program, or if there are problems which arise concerning implementation. such matters should be referred to the National Union and Staff Labour Relations.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA) By Robert White
227
October 25, 1990
(48)
Employee-Retiree New Vehicle Purchase Program
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
This will confirm my advice to you that Chrysler intends to continue the Chrysler Employee-Retiree New Vehicle Purchase Program for employees with at least ninety (90) days of continuous service, employees on approved leaves of absence, retirees under a Chrysler-CAW Pension Plan, surviving spouses of eligible employee!;-retirees, and dependents ofeligible employees-re-tirees living at the same address, as well as non-dependent sons and daughters of eligible employees-retirees.
Under the present program, the dealer, selected by the employee, will bill the employee at the Special Employees’ Price.
In continuing to make the New Vehicle Purchase Program available, it is understood and agreed that the Corporation may at any time modify, change or discontinue the Program and it shall have no obligation to bargain concerning its decision to do so. Hie Union will be advised in advance of any such action. It is further agreed that the institution of this Program shall not constitute a precedent for future negotiations on this subject.
We appreciate the efforts of the CAW to encourage employees to purchase Chrysler products.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
228
October 2‘j 1990
(49)
Chrysler Product Programs
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During recent contract negotiations the Union expressed an interest in developing greater employee participation in the use of Company products. We advised you that there are a numbei of various programs currently in effect allowing for discounts of Chrysler products for our hourly employees and retirees from the hourly roll. The following programs are available to such employees at this time.
In the event the Corporation introduces any new discount plan that is applicable to general salaried personnel for new or used products, it will be our intention to develop uniform eligibility rules that will be applicable to hourly personnel.
a.	New Vehicle Purchase Program
b.	Chrysler Owned Used Vehicles
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL. UNION  By Robert White
229
October 25, 1990 (50)
Unclaimed Paycheques
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
Pursuant to our discussions regarding unclaimed paycheques arrangements have been made to furnish each Local Union monthly with a list of employees who have paycheques at the Hourly Payroll Department which are unclaimed.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL  By Robert White
230
October 25,1990 (51)
Paycheques of Absentees
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
It is the intent of Management to continue to retain the paycheques of those employees who are absent on their regular pay day until Wednesday morning of the following week. In the event present payroll procedures are changed, Management shall retain the paycheques of such employees until Monday noon of the following week.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL. UNION  By Robert White
231
October 25, 1990 (52)
Short Pay Due to Company Erroi
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
The Company will arrange for an adjustment which will be paid the same day where the shortage equals the equivalent of eight (8) hours’ or more pay. A pay shortage of 7.9 hours which occurs solely because an employee failed to ring will be included in this procedure. Separate pay rates for skilled and non-skilled employees will be used in determining the adjustment. In the case of those paid on Thursday afternoon, theadjustment payment will be made available on Friday.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R, Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
232
October 25, 1990
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In the course of current negotiations, the Corporation and the Union had discussions concerning the availability ol paycheques for employees.
The Coiporation agrees that an employee who has been granted P.A.A. or A.P. on Friday, may submit a request, in advance, to receive said paycheque early and Management will obtain the employee’s paycheque on Thursday morning of the particular week involved. This procedure shall also apply to midnight shift employees who submit a request in advance of Thursday morning.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Franccse
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL, UNION  By Robert White
233
October 25, 1990
(54) Thursday Paycheque Distribution
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the recent negotiations the Company agreed to continue the Thursday distribution of paycheques to day shift employees. All paycheques will be dated Thursday. Management will continue to evaluate the impact of the change on operations, including Friday day shift tardiness and absenteeism. In the event of an adverse impact on operations, such as an increase in Friday day shift tardiness or absenteeism, the program may be discontinued by the Corporation at any time after giving the Local and National Union advance notice.
The Company and the Union have agreed that to facilitate this accelerated processing of paycheques, procedures will be modified to accommodate pay closings on Saturday rather than Sunday midnight.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL  By Robert White
234
October 23, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(55)
Advance Christmas Pay
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In the course of the current negotiations the Company and the Union had discussions regarding the practice of providing employees with advance paycheques prior to the Christmas Holiday Period.
‘The Company agrees to meet with the Union as soon as practicable after negotiations are concluded to study the practice further with a view to improving the methods and procedures currently in place.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
235
October 25, 1990
(56)
Direct Deposit Payroll System
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the recent contract negotiations the parties discussed the advantages and disadvantages of a direct deposit hourly payroll system. In conjunction with such a system, procedures may require modifications to accommodate pay closings on Saturday rather than Sunday midnight, The Company and the Union have agreed to meet during the course of the new agreement to further discuss the feasibility of implementing a direct deposit hourly payroll system.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
236
National Union (CAW-Canada)
October 25, 1990
(57) New Hire Orientation
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
The Corporation and the National Union, CAW agree to implement a joint orientation program for hourly employees.
The orientation program will be implemented in all plants and locations of the Corporation where the number of new hourl) employees being hired warrants such a program.
The orientation will be conducted prior to the enrollment of a prospective employee except when the number of new hires makes administering the program impractical or unduly burdensome for the representatives of the parties hereinafter described or would delay the commencement of operations for which the new employees are hired. The orientation will consist of information presented in accordance with guidelines established by the Corporation and the National Union, CAW. The information will acquaint the employee with work areas, and inform individuals of the benefits, opportunities and responsibilities they will have as employees of the Corporation and as members of the Union. The program shall be conducted, in part, by a representative of the Plant Human Resources Department and, in part, by an elected or appointed Local Union representative, officer oi Benefit Representative designated by the National Union whose other duties at the time of election, appointment or designation shall already permit said individual, if said individual is working on the job, to take time away from work without loss of pay. The orientation shall be conducted during normal plant working hours at times and places determined by Local Plant Management.
In the event that either party believes the program does not meet the provisions of this letter, notification may be given; if by the Union to the Corporate Labour Relations Staff, or if by the Corporation to the National Union, CAW.
237
The program will not be subject to the grievance procedure and may be terminated at any plant by either the National Union or the Corporation, upon written notice to the other party.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
238
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(58)
National Equal Application Committee
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
For many years the Corporation and your Union, in their respective fields, have been leaders in adopting and effectuating policies against discrimination because of race, colour, religion, age, sex, national origin, or handicap and to this end the parties have expressly incorporated in their Agreement an “Equal Application” provision that both insures adherence to that principle in all aspects of employment at Chrysler and provides the contractual grievance and arbitration procedure for the resolution of alleged violations of that principle.	- , „ / ,
/ t ’
The parties now recognize thedesirability of increased communication and cooperative effort on this subject(i) toencourage employees and grievance representatives to use the grievance and arbitration procedure as the exclusive contractual method for the prompt resolution of all claims of denial of equal application rights, (ii) to determine the cause of such claims in order to reduce the probability of these claims arising or recurring, and (iii) to maintain liaison with appropriate federal, provincial civil rights agencies for the following purposes: (a) to increase understanding, (b) to promote and encourage the use of the contractual grievance and arbitration procedure in order to avoid multiplicity of litigation in many forums simultaneously which is frequently time consuming, contradictory and hence, non-productive to relieving employee problems, (c) to seek solutions to mutual problems, (d) to relieve tensions in this area, and (e) to exchange information, expertise and advice.
Accordingly, the parties agree to establish within thirty (30) days of the ratification of the Production and Maintenance Agreement dated today a National Equal Application Committee and Local Plant Equal Application Committees.
239
The National Equal Application Committee will be composed of three (3) representatives of the National Union, one of whom will be a member of the National Union’s Fair Employment Practice Committee, or a designee, and two (2) representatives of the Corporation, one of whom will be active in the Corporation’s equal employment opportunity programs. The National Committee shall meet during January April, July and November and its functions shall be the following:
a.	-- Review and discuss ways and means of encouraging employees and grievance representatives to use the grievance and arbitration procedure as the exclusive contractual method to resolve claims of denial of equal application rights.
b.	-- Advise and counsel Union and Corporation representatives on the Appeal Board, other than the Impartial Chairperson, on grievances alleging such claims.
c.	-- Conduct or arrange for investigations and/or studies into the cause of equal employment opportunity and discrimination problems and tensions in an attempt to prevent such problems from arising or recurring.
d.	-- Maintain liaison with appropriate federal and provincial agencies for purposes set forth in the second paragraph of this letter.
e.	-- Advise and counsel Local Plant Equal Application Committees.
At each plant or facility that the Production and Maintenance Agreement covers, a Local Plant Equal Application Committee shall be established consisting of up to three (3) representatives of the Local Union and three (3) representatives of Plant Management. The representatives of the Local Union shall be limited to the Local Union President, or an Officer of the Local Union on a full time Leave of Absence For Union Business, the Chairperson of the Plant Shop Committee, and the Chairperson of the Fair Employment Practices Committee of the Local Union, The representatives of Management shall be the Plant Manager, or a designated representative, and two (2) Plant Management representatives at least one of whom is active in the Corporation’s equal employment opportunity program. Local Plant Equal Application Committees shall meet during January,
240
April, July and November. Such Union representatives if not on a full time Leave of Absence For Union Business, and if working in the plant, shall receive pay from the Corporation at their regulai hourly rates for time spent in such meetings that they would otherwise have worked in the plant. Local Plant Equal Application Committees shall have the following duties:
a.	— Recommend to the National Committee ways and means of promoting use of the grievance procedure as the exclusive contractual method for resolving claims of denial of equal application rights.
b.	— Suggest guidelines for Union and Corporation representatives active in the grievance procedure in the proper and prompt handling of grievances alleging such claims.
c.	— Recommend to the National Committee means for determining the cause of equal employment opportunity and discrimination problems and tensions in the plant.
The parties continue to recognize their legal and moral responsibility for assuring that all Chrysleremployees have equal employment opportunities and freedom from discrimination as set forth in Section (4) of the Production and Maintenance Agreement. Consequently the function of the National Equal Application Committee and Local Plant Equal Application Committees shall be advisory, consultative and cooperative. While the Corporation and the Union will welcome the recommendations the Committees may make, the Committees may not commit either party to a specific course of action. However, the Union agrees that it will discourage its members from bypassing the grievance and arbitration procedure with respect to any claim or complaint against the Corporation which may be made the subject of a grievance under the contract.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA) By Robert White
241
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)
(59) Quality of Work Life
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In the negotiations leading to the new collective bargaining agreement, it was evident that Chrysler Canada Ltd. and CAW are interested in improving the work environment as a means of making work a more satisfying and stimulating experience. It was further evident that neither party is satisfied it has the final answer to these matters but both feel that careful, planned experimentation and evaluation is desirable. It is possible that such experiments, if successful, can create improved employee morale and satisfaction and thus lead to a reduction of employee absenteeism and turnover, and have beneficial results in terms of the quality of our products.
Promptly following ratification of the new collective bargaining agreement, a Joint Committee on Improving the Work Environment will be established, composed of three (3) members appointed by the Vice-President - Human Resources of the Corporation and three (3) members appointed by the President of the National Union, CAW. This Committee will Ijave responsibility
for:	v A. j
/ (7 j\ !
(a)	Reviewing and evaluating those existing programs of the Corporation which involve improving the work environment of employees represented by CAW.
(b)	Developing new experiments in that area.
(c)	Maintaining records of its meetings, deliberations and all experiments and evaluations it conducts.
(d)	Making reports to the Corporation and the Union on the results of its activities.
(e)	Arranging for any outside counselling which it feels is necessary or desirable with the expenses thereof to be shared equally by the Corporation and the Union.
242
The Corporation agrees to request and encourage it:; plant managements to cooperate in the conduct of such experiments, and recognizes that cooperation by its plant floor supervision is essential to success of this program.
The Union agrees to request and encourage its members to cooperate in such experiments, and recognizes that the benefit which can flow to employees as a result of successful experimentation is dependent on the cooperation and participation of those employees.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
243
National Union (CAW-Canada)
October 25, 1990 (60)
National Task Force — Work Assignment Structures and Pay Systems
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In negotiations leading to the current Collective Bargaining Agreement, the parties agreed to mutually continue their efforts toward providing more varied and interesting work assignments for all employees.
Therefore, the National Task Force on Work Assignment Structures and Pay Systems will continue to evaluate such a program and may develop a pilot program for a selected plant.
The National Task Force shall continue to be comprised of an equal number of representatives appointed by the National President for the CAW and the Vice-President - Fluman Resources for Chrysler Canada Ltd. The Task Force members will include the President of the Local Union and the Chairperson of the Plant Shop Committee, or their designated representatives, and the Plant Manager and the Human Resources Manager, or their designated representatives of the selected plant.
r	. f	-
The National Task Force shall:	'	'
—	analyze current work assignments to develop improved
structures.
—	consider the effect of new programs of all aspects of productivity, quality and employee worklife.
—	evaluate and consider alternative pay systems consistent with changed work assignment structures.
—	consider a pilot work assignment and pay system program for a selected plant.
The National Task Force may, subject to the agreement of the parties to the collective agreement:
244
—	select a plant for evaluation and installation of a pilot work assignment and pay system program.
—	develop and install a pilot program in the selected plant no later than April 4,1988.
—	determine an appropriate system of compensation for that
program.
It is recognized that:
■— additional training for all employees will be required to enhance employee skills.
—	the parties may by mutual agreement select and utilize a consultant for this program.
—	installation of the pilot work assignment and pay system program may best be launched in an individual department or operating division of the selected plant.
The parties agree to meet within 30 days of the effective date of this Agreement to:
—	designate the members of the National Task Force
—	establish a system to monitor the progress of the National Task Force
The pilot program will remain in effect for the duration of the current Agreement unless one of the parties notifies the other of their desire to cancel for good reason giving 30 days notice. In such case, the plant would revert to whatever structure, practices, and provisions that were in effect prior to the pilot program.
245
Finally, it is agreed that to develop and install such a pilot program it may be necessary to change or waive certain provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and the appropriate Local Agreement at the affected plant. It is understood that any such change or waiver would not be effective unless agreed to in writing by the local parties involved and approved by the National Bargaining Committee, the National Union, CAW, and Chrysler Canada Ltd. Such changes would be effective only at the locations specifically designated.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
Ely K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
246
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(61)
Training Committee
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In the negotiations leading to the new collective bargaining agreement that Chrysler Canada Ltd. and the CAW signed today, it was evident that both the Corporation and the Union are vitally interested in developing the skills, talents and potentiality for advancement of employees in their own and other CAW bargaining units, and in enabling them to keep pace with the rapidly changing technology, methods and processes in our plants and offices. It was equally evident that both the Corporation and the Union are urgently interested in recruiting and training employees to take the places of those who qualify for higher rated and more responsible positions, and to make themselves eligible later for similar positions.
This is not, by any means, a new development. Chrysler has introduced a number of new training programs for its employees and has expanded others to help employees take full advantage of their capabilities. In addition, the Tuition ‘Refund Program that Chrysler instituted in October, 1964, for which all Chrysler employees are eligible, has provided them with the opportunity to obtain job-related instruction in educational and training institutions, and many have taken advantage of it. The success of the Apprenticeship Training Program under an agreement between Chrysler and the Union has been outstanding.
Recognizing the continuing and expanding need for employee training to enable Chrysler to continue to improve its competitive position and to assist then current employees to take advantage of promotional opportunities in the future, the parties will establish a National Training Committee, consisting of five representatives of the National Union and five representatives of the Corporation, to be appointed respectively by the CAW President of the National Union and the Vice-President - Human Resources of the Corporation. The members of this Committee shall include at least one person who is familiar with the training
247
needs and related problems of employees in each of the following areas: (i) office and clerical employees, (ii) engineering employees, (iii) skilled trades employees, including upgraders, but excluding apprentices covered by the Supplemental Agreement relating to apprentices, and (iv) all production and maintenance employees.
The National Training Committee shall have responsibility for investigating, developing and recommending, on a uniform basis, for all plants and offices:
(1)	New and/or expanded training programs that will be in the best interest of both the employees and the Corporation;
(2)	Standards for the implementation of the various training programs the Corporation has instituted or may institute, and particularly for encouraging qualified employees to participate therein.
(3)	Methods and techniques for selecting candidates for training on the basis of aptitude, interest and other qualifications; and
(4)	The instructional methods to be used in such training programs.
Each Local Union shall (i) encourage its members to enroll and to continue to participate in training programs; (ii) counsel and advise them on the availability of training programs and as to the appropriateness for them of the various programs, having in mind their experience, aptitudes, education and other qualifications; (iii) advise the National Training Committee as to the needs among its members for training programs,
The National Training Committee will submit whatever recommendations it may make to the Corporation and the National Union, but may not commit either party to a training program or any aspect thereof.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By 
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
248
October 25, 1990 (62)
Employee Participation Activities
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
The parties have agreed that following the conclusion of these negotiations, a task force consisting of representatives of the Union and Management will meet to review the various jointly sponsored employee participation activities currently in place at Chrysler Canada Ltd. A broad range of plant visits by the task force to facilitate this review and to include joint sessions with local Management and Union leaders would be an integral part of this study. The assistance of a mutually acceptable outside consultant may be enlisted to aid on this process.
By July I, 1988, a report of the task force findings shall be completed with recommendations, if any, for further joint activities in the employee participation area.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
249
October 25,1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(63)
Affirmative Action Committees
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During current negotiations, the parties reaffirmed the policy of the Company and the CAW as outlined in Section (4) of the Agreement, that the provisions of the Agreement be applied to all employees covered by the Agreement without regard to race, colour, religion, age, sex, national origin or handicap.
Additionally, the Company reaffirmed its policy to extend opportunities for employment and advancement within the Company to all qualified applicants and employees on a non-discriminatory basis.
While recognizing that it is the right of Management to hire, assign, and promote the most qualified candidates subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, the parties agree to undertake certain joint activities to further implement these non-discriminatory policies following ratification of this Agreement.
Accordingly, a Local Affirmative Action Committee will be established at each plant location. The two members of each Local Affirmative Action Committee shall be selected by the CAW President from within the existing representation structure. If there are no women in the existing representation structure, the CAW President shall select one committee member from among the women actively employed in the bargaining unit at the location at which selected. Women selected by the CAW President for this purpose will be permitted to leave work when required during straight time hours to function as a committee membei and will be paid by the Company at their regular straight time rate up to the number of hours listed in the following schedule:
250
Plant	Number of Affirmative , Action I ! Committee Members	Maximum Number ; of Straight Time Hours Paid When Excused from Regular Work Assienment
Windsor Assembly	1	12
Pillelte Road Truck	I	12
Ajax Trim	1	12
Etobicoke Casting	I	6
Windsor Office	I	6
The above listed hours are available on either Monday and/or Friday and the committee member when utilizing such hours may be replaced by a Temporary Part-Time Employee, in areas where the TPT Program is in place, if a replacement is required.
A comparable number of Management representatives will be appointed. These Local Affirmative Action Committees will have the task of assessing each location’s needs to further enhance the policy of equal opportunity for all and to develop plans to address the mutual goal of encouraging interested parties to seek and qualify for employment and advancement within ChryslerCanada Ltd. Special attention will be devoted to women, visible minorities, Native Canadian people and the handicapped.
‘To assure basic consistency, however, all local committee activities shall be developed within the framework of the follow.-ing guidelines:
(a)	Recruitment:
1.	Members of the Affirmative Action Committee should visit community schools to meet with placement counsellors and students to discuss the types of jobs available at Chrysler Canada Ltd. and the procedure for submitting an application. Leaflets and video presentations may be developed for use by schools in their education programs.
2.	These representatives should encourage students at the earliest possible time, before entering high school, to enroll in
251
programs which would prepare them for the technical needs of the jobs of the future.
(b)	Training for current employees:
To further the advancement of employees into technical skilled positions, the: Local Committees will take the following actions:
1.	A communications program is to be developed by the Local Committees with the purpose of encouraging employees to apply for higher paying technical positions, with special emphasis on women, visible minorities, Native Canadian people and the handicapped.
2.	Each Local Committee should assess the types of jobs for which training would be appropriate and make recommendations to the local parties.
3.	Training programs will be developed under the guidance of the Local Committees to provide the necessary technical training toemployees including pre-apprentice training among others. Such training programs may be in-house or in the community.
(c)	Communications:
Local Committees would develop overall communications programs utilizing Company newspapers, local Union newspapers, and other specific communication formats which could convey the message to employees and the community that there are opportunities for all qualified members of society within Chrysler Canada Ltd.
It is recognized that Local Committees will require ongoing assistance and direction. Accordingly, a Master Affirmative Action Committee will be established consisting of two members of the National Union, as well as two staff members of the Company. This committee will meet quarterly and may be supplemented, by mutual agreement, by Local Committee representatives.
In addition, the Union and the Company will communicate to the media that Affirmative Action Committees have been established in all Chrysler Canada Ltd. locations covered by this Agreement and will report periodically on these activities.
252
The Master Committee will also monitor local activities and assist the local parties as needed to ensure that the local activities receive appropriate ongoing direction.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CA.W-CANADA)
By Robert White
253
October 25,1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(64)
Affirmative Action — Programs
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During 1990 negotiations, the Company and the Union discussed their mutually strong commitment to affirmative action. In this regard, both parties acknowledged that the Company’s Employment Equity Work Plan (the “Plan”) established under the Federal Contractor’s Program represents a solid base from which we may initiate other supportive strategies. While the parties recognize that the Corporation has significant representation of the four designated groups within its hourly workforce, the Corporation and the Union agreed that they must continue the special efforts outlined in the Plan aimed at achieving a responsible representation of women, visible minorities, persons with disabilities and aboriginal people throughout the workforce of Chrysler Canada Ltd.
The parties agreed that following these negotiations, the Master Affirmative Action committee would use the Ministry’s available percentages for the four designated groups in the communities surrounding each of the Corporation’s locations to form benchmarks against which it would compare the percentages for these groups within the Company’s workforce at each location,
In a location where the percentages at the facility are significantly less than those of the surrounding community, the Master Affirmative Action Committee would develop additional innovative programs to augment those strategies set forth in the Plan in order to move the facilities’ percentages for that location up to the local benchmark levels over a reasonable time frame.
The parties recognized that any additional initiatives developed by the Master Affirmative Action Committee must take into account such factors as:
1. historical and projected attrition rates at the location,
254
2.	the market demand for the location’s products and the impact of internal and external economic factors on current and projected employment levels,
3.	the present and anticipated availability ofqualified people from the community to fill any available job openings,
4.	the impact of the Corporation’s outreach and informational programs on the four designated groups in the community in terms of generating interest in employment opportunities at the Corporation,
5.	the need, feasibility, availability, and cost of specific training needed to qualify job applicants from the four designated groups for job opportunities at the Corporation.
The parties agreed that it may be difficult to simultaneously stimulate meaningful increases in the percentages of all foul designated groups at a particular location.
Accordingly, the Master Affirmative Action Committee may initially wish to develop a pilot project with specific strategies targeted at increasing the percentages of one or two of the designated groups at a location where gains may be achieved more expeditiously. The experience gained from this pilot project may subsequently be applied at other locations.
The Corporation and Union also discussed a number of training issues related to affirmative action and agreed that where feasible, apprenticeship training initiatives should be applied. It was also agreed that community outreach, education and communication strategies are key to advancing affirmative action in the workplace at Chrysler Canada Ltd.
255
In addition to these specific initiatives, the parties agreed that the Master and Local Affirmative Action Committees needed to meet regularly throughout the life of the 1990 Agreement to determine other effective ways to support and advance affirmative action at Chrysler Canada Ltd. In this regard, they determined that there will be quarterly combined meetings of the Master and Local CAW-Chrysler Affirmative Action Committee at each location.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
256
National Union (CAW-Canada)
October 25, 1990 (65)
Joint National Environmental Committee
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During these negotiations the Company demonstrated its concern for the environment by outlining the Programs and policies which are in place in the plants and offices.
As well, the CAW has become deeply involved in environmental issues, at both the National and local levels.
Therefore, it is agreed that to demonstrate this joint interest a National Environmental Committee will be established by the parties. The committee will consist of two people, the National Elealth & Safety Co-ordinator and a Representative designated by the President of the National Union for the CAW and two people, the Manager of Health & Safety and Manager of Environment representing Chrysler Canada.
The National Committee shall:
—	Meet 3 times annually at mutually agreeable times and place to review and discuss issues involving the environment, recycling and energy conservation which pertain to Chrysler Canada employees.
—	Develop and issue a joint statement regarding the environment, recycling and energy conservation pertaining to Chrysler Canada employees.
—	Discuss and make recommendations regarding possible future programs for the plants and offices concerning the environment, recycling and energy conservation.
—	Promote and support ongoing programs in the plants and offices relating to the environment, recycling and
—	Receive and discuss appropriate issues referred to them by the plants and offices.
257
-	- Develop and issue educational materials to employees and
their families concerning the environment, recycling and energy conservation.
-	- Discuss other duties and responsibilities of this Joint Envi-
ronmental Committee at its regular meetings as jointly agreed on.
-	- Be agreed by the parties that this committee and its functions
will not be adversarial and its clear purpose is to promote environmental awareness of all Chrysler Canada workers.
-	- Be agreed by the parties that environmental issues and sta-
tistics pertaining to Chrysler Canada discussed at this committee are to be held confidential if so requested by any member.
One year after the formation of this committee the parties must agree to continue its operation.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
Ely Robert White
258
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)
(66)
Annual
Meeting
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In order to promote a greater degree of understanding and co-operation between the Union and the Coiporation, the parties will convene an annual meeting of local Union leadership and Management representatives to discuss matters of mutual interest
such as:
—	Current conditions and outlook for the auto industry and Chrysler
—	State of Management/Union relations
—	Matters of mutual interest and concern
—	Matters of special interest to either party
Local Union leadership shall include the President, Plant Chairperson and National Representatives servicing Chryslei Local Unions. Management representatives From the plants, division and Corporate staffs shal I be designated.
These annual meetings will bechaired by the Vice-President -Human Resources and the CAW, National Union President or designate.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K..R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
259
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(67)
Content
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
The Company recognizes the importance of the employment security it affords its employees and shares the desire of the Union to preserve those jobs and to create new jobs. The Company reaffirms its objective to remain a viable domestic enterprise and a major Canadian employer and declares its intention to achieve a competitive posture within a framework which contributes to the job security of employees and which is responsive to the changing dynamics characterizing our industry.
Consistent with our mutual desire to utilize the full range of employees abilities to contribute to these objectives, the Company agrees to use earnest effort to maintain employment opportunities equivalent to those now encompassed by the total of all plants covered by the Production and Maintenance Agreement. This would include its best efforts to replace jobs which may be lost by outsourcing action and commits itself to create, where feasible, new prospects for growth.
In addition, Chrysler Canada Ltd. joins with the CAW in supporting the principle that manufacturers who participate in the Canadian market should provide jobs, pay taxes and support the economy of the market in which they sell. As you know. Chryslei Corporation has for decades based its operations throughout North America on this very principle. We believe that, over the long run, no alternative policy can prevail if there is to be fairness and balance among the major trading nations of the world.
Chrysler Canada Ltd. commits to support acceptance of this principle, so that foreign producers will be encouraged to make their fair contribution to actions that will restore jobs to Canadian automotive workers.
260
Ii is believed that the principles expressed in this letter will contribute significantly to our co-operatively working together to provide employees in Canada with improved job security.
Veiy truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Franccse
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
261
October 25, 1990
(68)
New Technology
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
It is recognized that the principle set forth in Section (91), paragraph (c) of the Production and Maintenance Agreement dated today, will continue to create changes in the scope and work content of job classifications of represented employees. When the Corporation anticipates that a technological improvement it is making in ils tools, methods, processes, equipmentor materials may have a major impact on the work performed by Union represented employees, the Corporation will, as early as practicable, so advise the National Union, and at that time describe the location and nature of such technological changes and the extent to which they may affect the work performed by represented employees at the plant or plants involved.
\ The Corporation and the Union may submit to the National '• Training Committee their recommendations for any training pro, grams intended to assist present employees to perform work within the bargaining unit which is new or changed as a result of technological improvement.
In the event the National Union Representative considers it appropriate, he may arrange a meeting with the Manager of Labour Relations of the Corporation to discuss the impact of such technological changes and any proposed responses to such changes.
Any problems not resolved in such discussions may be submitted to the grievance procedure or to the deliberations of the National Training Committee, or to any other procedure on which the parties may agree.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION 
By Robert White
262
October 25, 1990
Grand Marais Road Building
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During these negotiations, the Union expressed particular concern regarding utilization of the Grand Marais Road Building.
The Corporation advised it cannot agree to any limitation on its responsibility for making the final decision in such matters. Nonetheless. it was deemed appropriate and in keeping with the spirit of expanding our co-operative efforts to provide for communication by employee representatives regarding future decisions affecting the status of this facility.
Accordingly, it is agreed to establish a Joint Study Committee as a forum for discussing future utilization of the Grand Marais Road Building. The composition of the Committee shall include National CAW, Local Union and Company representatives including senior planning executives.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
263
(70)
Alternative Work Schedules
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the 1990 negotiations the parties discussed the restructuring within the auto industry in Canada and the impact upon plant operations. The parties acknowledged having held considerable discussion of proposals associated with expanded capacity and alternative work schedules and agreed it would be appropriate to continue examination of non-traditional operating approaches.
The parties further agree the current committee consisting of the Vice-President, Human Resources for Chrysler Canada Ltd., the Vice-President — Assembly — Chrysler Motors (or their designees) and two Union Representatives designated by the President of the CAW would be reconvened promptly following ratification of the 1990 National Agreement. It is the parties’ intent to reach final conclusion in respect to the issue of alternative work schedules not later than sixty (60) days from that date.
At such time as the Committee reaches an agreement which meets the respective parties’ objectives, the Corporation shall have the right to implement such a schedule, should market demand dictate, at up to two (2) Assembly Plant facilities.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL 
By Robert White
264

(71)
Alternatives to Current Operating Standards and Agreements
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
The parties have recognized the need to explore on a con-tinning basis various alternatives to current operating standards and agreements. That recognition is based upon our mutual interest to maintain the Union and the Company as strong, pragmatic entities with responsibilities to our employees and oui shareholders. Central lo this joint interest is the concern for maintaining and expanding job opportunities.
It is recognized that:
—	job opportunities and job security are controlled by cost
considerations in our competitive industry;
—	future considerations to facility and product investment will be influenced to a large degree by projected initial and continuing costs:
labour agreements represent a major element of operating costs.
Accordingly, the parties agree that future consideration of facility and product investment will include the discussion and review of work assignments and job structures which by design would increase employee participation and provide competitive operating costs.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
265
October 25, 1990
(72)
Sourcing Decisions
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations, the parties discussed outsourcing and its impact on the Union’s members.
While the Company retains the ultimate discretion as to final sourcing decisions the parties agree that discussions and reviews regarding such matters can bring into sharper focus, in specific instances, factors which can impact such decisions and provide the opportunity for meaningful Union input before such decisions are made.
It is recognized such decisions are dependent upon the Corporation’s ability to be cost competitive; technologically competent; and upon the degree to which the Company’s resources can be allocated to further capital expenditures which might be required.
Accordingly, each plant manager and members of said plant manager’s staff will meet with local Union representatives to provide a means of regularly addressing mutual concerns which pertain to sourcing decisions and their potential impact upon the workforce.
It is understood that discussions regarding sourcing may involve information which must be kept confidential until the Company consents to its release.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION 
By Robert White
266
October 25,1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(73)
Understanding Re Permanent Job Losses
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During 1990 negotiations the parties discussed the extensive structural change that has already, and will continue to take place, in the North American automotive industry. Our discussions focused on two key aspects of this complicated issue: the need to maintain each Chrysler Canada Ltd. location as a productive manufacturer of world class quality products in the North American automotive market and to ensure that Chrysler Canada Ltd. employees, who contribute to the success of the Corporation, have their jobs and incomes protected as restructuring actions are taken. In addition, we have recognized the importance of the parties at both the local and national level continuing an ongoing dialogue about all the aspects of the business to ensure that the important goals are achieved.
With these objectives in mind, we have agreed that the understanding listed below will govern the parties in the event that restructuring or productivity-r&ted actions may result in permanent job losses. These permanent job losses are those occasioned by specific actions taken by the Corporation. For example, outsourcing, the introduction of new technology, sale of part of the Corporation, and consolidation of operations would be actions contemplated by this understanding. The understanding would not apply to normal cyclical fluctuations in demand or the reduction of employees on “temporary” assignments. It is also understood that this program does not replace the ongoing discussions which continually take place at the local level regarding production standards and manpower requirements.
1.	Where such permanent loss of jobs is considered, one yeai notice will be provided to the Union in the case of plant closure and six months notice will be provided to the Union in the case of a potential permanent job loss related to a
267
restructuring as referred above. The information supplied to the Union will include the number of employees who could potentially be impacted and the rationale for the decision. It is understood that the information will be used for discussions between the parties and the workforce, and will be considered confidential. The Union will have the opportunity to make proposals which could alter or modify the decision.
2.	During the course of these discussions, the objectives of the parties will be the retention of the jobs in question. To that end, the parties will discuss opportunities to retain or replace the jobs which are being discontinued. The Union will have thirty clays from the date of notice to make proposals which could make it feasible to retain or replace the jobs in question.
3.	If job losses become unavoidable and management decides to reduce the size of the workforce, every effort will be made to use attrition to manage the required reductions. The use of attrition is the subject of a separate letter between the parties.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francesc
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
268
October 23, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(74)
Restructuring — Job and Income Protection
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the 1990 negotiations, in a separate letter between the parties, wc described the process that would be followed in the event that restructuring actions may result in permanent job tosses. In that letter we agreed that the objective of the parties wilt be the retention of the job!; in question. We also agreed that if job losses become unavoidable, every effort wilt be made to use attrition to manage the required reductions.
The instant letter describes the process that will be implemented, and the benefit entitlements that will be provided to employees under three separate scenarios: (I ) closure of standalone plants, (2) closure of a plant(s) at a multi-plant site, and (3) restructuring actions resulting in permanent job tosses at any plant. The scenarios are detailed below as follows:
PLANT CLOSING Stand-Alone Plants
As closure approaches and operations begin to wind down, employees who (I ) are any age and have 28.1 or more years of Credited Service; (2) are age 54 or older but less than age 60 and within two years would have sufficient combined years of age and Credited Service to equal 85 or more; and (3) are age 60 oi older but less than age 65 and have ten or more years of Credited Sendee or are age 6 1 or older but less than age 65 and have 9.1 but less than IO years of Credited Service, will be contacted regarding retirement under the Regular Early Retirement provisions of the applicable Non-Contributory Pension Plan. Employees who arc age 50 or older but less than age 65 and who have ten or more years of Credited Service (including any such employees who are also eligible for Regular Early Retirement) will be offered Special Early Retirement commencing on or before the announced closing date.
269
At time of closure, remaining employees, including eligible employees who declined to elect immediate Regular Early Retirement or who declined the offer of Special Early Retirement, wilt be placed on layoff. All such employees with 5 or more years of Seniority, except those who meet the age and service requirements for Regular or Special Early Retirement (based on an age 50 minimum age requirement for Special Early Retirement), wilt be eligible to apply immediately upon layoff for a lump sum payment under the Voluntary Termination of Employment Plan (VTEP). Any laid off employee who elects not to apply immediate] y for VTEP or who is inel igible for VTEP because he/she has less lhan 5 years of Seniority at layoff or because he/she meets the age and Credited Service requirements for Regular or Special Early Retirement (based on an age 50 minimum age requirement for Special Early Retirement) wilt:
-- be eligible for Regular Benefits under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit (SUB) Plan provided he/she has at least one year of Seniority as of his/her last day worked prior to layoff;
-- be offered employment at other Corporation facilities in accordance with the parties’ understanding on preferential placement; and
— provided he/she had 5 or more years of Seniority as of his/her last day worked prior to layoff and does not meet the age and Credited Service requirements for Regular Early Retirement upon exhausting his/her eligibility for Regulai SUBenefits and did not meet the age and Credited Service requirements for Special Early Retirement (based on an age 50 minimum age requirement) at time of layoff, be eligible for IMP Benefits under the Income Maintenance Benefit Plan.
An employee with 5 or more years of Seniority who elects not to apply for VTEP at time of layoff wilt be eligible to make subsequent application for such a payment, reduced by the sum of any IMP Benefits he/she had received white on layoff prior to ultimately making application for VTEP, provided that he/she does not meet the age and Credited Service requirements foi
270
Regular Early Retirement at the time application is made and did not meet the age and Credited Service requirements for Special Early Retirement (based on an age 50 minimum age requirement) at time of layoff and provided further that such application is filed within the maximum time limits set forth in the Voluntary Termination of Employment Plan.
Multi-Plant Sites
On a site-wide basis, separately for skilled trades and nonskilled employees for skilled employees, by trade, before closing layoffs are effected, the number of employees in the workforce will be reduced by:
(1)	Laying off employees with hire or rehire dates on oraftei the date closing was announced;
(2)	Offering the opportunity to be placed on layoff, with eligibility for Regular SUBenefits, to employees at any age who have 28.1 or more years of Credited Service;
(3)	Offering the opportunity to be placed on layoff, with eligibility for Regular SUBenefits, to employees (excluding those who also may be in (2) above) who are age 54 or older but less than age 65 and who within two years would have sufficient combined years ot age and Credited Service to equal 85 or more;
(4)	Offering the opportunity to be placed on layoff, with eligibility for Regular SUBenefits, to employees who are age 60 or older but less than age 65 and have IO more more years of Credited Service (excluding those who also may be in (2) or (3) above) or are age 6 I or older but less than age 65 and have 9.1 but less than IO years of Credited Service;
(5)	Offering Special Early Retirement to employees (including those who also may be in (2), (3) or (4) above) who are age 55 or more but less than age 65 and who have IO or more years of Credited Service; and
(6)	Offering employees who have 5 or more years of Seniority (excluding those in (2), (3), (4) and (5) above) an opportunity to apply for VTEP.
271
If the total number of employees who accept an offer undei
(2), (3), (4), (5) or (6) above exceeds the number of jobs that will be permanently lost clue to the closing, individual elections will be effected in Seniority order until the resulting number of separations equals the expected job loss.
At time of closure, the reduction in force provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement will be implemented. An en-ployee with 5 or more years of Seniority who is laid off as a result of the reduction in force and who at time of layoff does not meet the age and Credited Service requirements for Regular or Special Early Retirement will be eligible to apply immediately upon layoff for a lump sum payment under VTEP. Any laid off en-ployee who elects not to apply immediately for VTEP or who is ineligible for VTEP because he/she has less than 5 years of Seniority at layoff or because he/she meets the age and Credited Service requirements for Regular or Special Early Retirement will:
—	- be eligible for Regular Benefits under the SUB Plan;
—	be offered employment at other Corporation facilities in
accordance with the parties’ understanding on preferential placement or be eligible for recall to work at a plant in the same unit, whichever may occur first; and
—	provided he/she had 5 or more years of Seniority as of
his/her last day worked prior to layoff and does not meet the age and Credited Service requirement for Regular Early Retirement upon exhausting his/her eligibility for Regulai SUBenefits and did not meet the age and Credited Service requirements for Special Early Retirement at time of layoff, be eligible for IMP Benefits under the Income Maintenance Benefit Plan.
An employee with 5 or more years of Seniority who elects not to apply for VTEP at time of layoff will be eligible to make subsequent application for such a payment, reduced by the sum of any IMP Benefits he/she had received while on layoff prior to ultimately making application for VTEP, provided that he/she does not meet the age and Credited Service requirements for Regular Early Retirement at the time application is made and did
272
not meet the age and Credited Service requirements for Special Early Retirement at the time of layoff and provided further that such application is filed within the maximum time limits set forth in the Voluntary Termination of Employment Plan.
PERMANENT JOB LOSS
In the event management decides that workforce reductions resulting in permanent job loss as a consequence of restructuring actions cannot be accomplished in a timely and efficient mannei through normal attrition, the following steps will be taken, separately forskilled trades and non-skilled employees and for skilled employees, by trade:
(1)	employees with less than one year of Seniority will be placed on layoff;
(2)	If the number of separations that can be accomplished through implementation of (I) above is less than the number of jobs that will be lost, employees at any age who have 28. I oi more years of Credited Service will be offered the opportunity to be placed on layoffwith eligibility for Regular SUBcnefits. If the number of employees who accept this offer, combined with the number of employees separated or scheduled for separation undet (I) above: exceeds the number of jobs that will be permanently lost, this offer will be implemented in Seniority order for accepting employees until the combined number of actual and scheduled separations equals the number of jobs lost:
(3)	If the combined number of separations pursuant to the preceding steps is less than the number of jobs that will be permanently lost, employees (excluding those who may also be in (2) above) who are age 54 or older but less than age 65 and who within two years would have sufficient combined years of age and Credited Service equal io 85 or more will be offered the opportunity to be placed on layoff with eligibility for Regulat SUBenefits. If the number of employees who accept this offer, combined with the number of employees separated or scheduled for separation under the two preceding steps, exceeds the numbei of jobs that will be permanently lost, this offer will be implemented in Seniority order for accepting employees until the
273
combined number of actual and scheduled separations equals the
number of jobs lost;
(4)	If the combined number of separations pursuant to the preceding steps is less than the number of jobs that will be pennanently lost, employees who are age 60 or older but less than age 65 and have 10 or more years of Credited Service (excluding those who may also be in (2) or (3) above) or are age 6 I or oldei but less than age 65 and have 9.1 or more but less than IO years of Credited Service will be offered the opportunity to be placed on layoff with eligibility for Regular SUBenefits. If the numbei of employees who accept this offer, combined with the numbei of employees separated or scheduled for separation under the three preceding steps, exceeds the number of jobs that will be permanently lost, this offer will be implemented in Seniority order for accepting employees until the combined number of actual and scheduled separations equals the number of jobs lost;
(5)	If the combined number of separations pursuant to the preceding steps is less than the number of jobs that will be permanently lost, employees (including those who also may be in (2), (3) and (4) above) who are age 55 or more but less than age 65 and who have IO or more years of Credited Service will be offered Special Early Retirement. If the number of employees who accept this offer, combined with the number of employees separated or scheduled for separation under the four preceding steps, exceeds the number of jobs that will be pennanently lost, Special Early Retirements will be approved in Seniority order until the combined number of actual and scheduled separations equals the number of jobs lost; and
(6)	If the combined number of separations pursuant to the preceding steps is less than the number of jobs that will be permanently lost, employees who have 5 or more years of Seniority (excluding those in (2), (3), (4) and (5) above) will be offered an opportunity to apply for VTEP. If the number of employees who accept this offer, combined with the number of employees separated or scheduled for separation under the five preceding steps, exceeds the number of jobs that will be permanently lost, this offerwill be implemented in Seniority order until
274
the combined number of actual and scheduled separations equals
the number of jobs lost.
These actions will be taken and administered on a site-wide basis at multi-plant sites.
If these measures fail to stimulate sufficient additional attrition to accomplish the necessary workforce reductions, the reduction in force provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement will be implemented. An employee with 5 or more years of Seniority who is laid off as a result of the reduction in force and who at time of layoff does not meet the age and Credited Service requirements for Regular or Special Early Retirement will be eligible to apply immediately upon layoff for a lump sum payment under VTEP. Any laid off employee who elects not to apply immediately for VTEP or who is ineligible for VTEP because he/she has less than 5 years of Seniority or because he/she meets the age and Credited Service requirements for Regular or Special Early Retirement will:
(i)	be eligible for Regular Benefits under the SUB Plan;
(ii)	be offered employment at other Corporation facilities in accordance with the parties’ understanding on preferential placement (or at a multi-plant site, be eligible for recall pursuant to the Collective Bargaining Agreement, whichever may occur first): and
(iii)	provided he/she had 5 or more years of Seniority as of his/her last day worked prior to layoff and does not meet the age and Credited Service requirements for Regular Early Retirement upon exhausting his/her eligibility for Regular SUBenefits and did not meet the age and Credited Service requirements for Special Early Retirement at time of layoff, be eligible for IMP Benefits under the Income Maintenance Benefit Plan.
An employee with 5 or more years of Seniority who elects not to apply for VTEP at time of layoff will be eligible to make subsequent application for such a payment, reduced by the sum of any IMP Benefits he/she had received while on layoff prior to ultimately making application for VTEP, provided that he/she
275
does not meet the age and Credited Service requirements foi Regular Early Retirement at the time application is made and did not meet the age and Credited Service requirements for Special Early Retirement at the time of layoff and provided further that such application is filed within the maximum time limits set forth in the Voluntary Termination of Employment Plan.
The above commitments were executed in a spirit that recognizes the need to ensure that Chrysler Canada operations produce world-class quality products as efficiently as possible. That recognition, coupled with the commitments we have negotiated to protect the jobs and incomes of our employees, should help to assure that both parties achieve our shared objective of maintaining Chrysler Canada as a viable entity in the North American automotive market.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
276
October 25,1990 (75)
Skilled Trades Permanent Job Losses
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During these negotiations the parties agreed to several arrangements which will govern the parties in the event of permanent job losses resulting from productivity-related actions or restructuring.
In response to concerns raised by the Union regarding productivity-related actions or restructuring and their potential impact on maintenance and construction work, the Company reaffirmed the principles and procedures with respect to the letting of outside contracts for maintenance and construction work specified in Sections (I I), (12), (13), (14) and (15) of the Supplemental Agreement Special Provisions Pertaining to Skilled Trades Employees.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
277
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(76)
Vendor Support
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the course of these negotiations, the parties discussed at length the issue of supplier employees performing rework and/or sorting operations within the plant. The Company explained the necessity for occasionally having vendors perform rework upon their supplied components. To that extent, the Company advised the Union it is not, under normal and ordinary circumstances, the intent of Chrysler Canada Ltd. to have vendor employees perform “rework”, to the detriment of CAW represented employees except as it pertains to the below statement on specific techniques or skills.
Nevertheless, the parties recognize that circumstances can and do arise where vendors must have their employees perform such rework within our facilities in cases such as where it is required for the vendor to obtain more knowledge about the quality defect, where specific techniques or skills are required and/or where warranty agreements and vehicle safety items could be impacted. Furthermore, the Company advised the Union that under normal and ordinary circumstances, non-corporate supplier employees would only be allowed to perform continuing rework and/or sorting operations within our facilities for up to a maximum of five (5) consecutive working days to correct a specific problem. After such time, the rework for that specific problem would be assigned either to plant employees or the nonconforming material will be returned to the supplier for rework. This agreement would not be in effect for a maximum of six (6) weeks following the introduction of any new part.
In applying the above understanding, the Plant assures the Union that vendor rework will not be performed on the assembly line. Further, in the case of finished vehicles, vendor rework will be performed only in those instances where the vendor’s exper-
278
tise is required due to the criteria referenced in the aforementioned paragraph.
Very truly yours!
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
279
October 25, 1990 (77)
Quality Initiatives
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the 1990 negotiations, the parties discussed the competitive nature of the auto industry in Canada and the potential impact upon job security for employees of Chrysler Canada Ltd.
During these discussions the Corporation addressed the importance of quality as one of the critical factors which can influence long-term viability of each of the facilities of Chrysler Canada Ltd. In this regard, the Corporation reviewed with the Union quality initiatives that are being introduced to ensure that the best possible quality standards are achieved. The programs reviewed included the Quality Improvement Process, Statistical Process Control methods, Performance Feedback Systems, training of employees to enhance operator skills, and other measures to measure and improve quality levels.
The parties agreed the application of these programs and processes is important for achievement of the quality objectives essential to the ongoing viability of each facility of Chrysler Canada Ltd.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. Ely K.R.Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
280
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(78)
Employee — Basic Responsibilities
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations, the parties discussed at length the issue of job security. It is understood that faced with severe domestic and foreign competition, Chrysler must improve its manufacturing and other systems and provide for more productive and effective utilization of its capital and human resources if job security is to be attained.
One of the concepts discussed that would enable Chryslet to work toward meeting these important objectives and providing job security pertains to basic employee responsibilities. The Company believes setting forth an understanding of the duties that constitute basic responsibilities of all employees will encourage employee growth and cooperation, thereby improving productivity and increasing the flexibility of the Company’s human resources.
As such, the Company and the Union agree that all employees are expected to take pride in their workmanship; have respect for other employees, union and salaried alike; be orderly and neat in their own workplace and otherwise respect the rights of others to work in an orderly, clean and safe environment.
All employees are expected to perform the various duties and basic responsibilities assigned to them.
Employees have the responsibility to ensure the equipment they use or work with is in proper working order. When a problem exists, they are to notify the appropriate personnel of such a problem, to minimize damage to themselves, other employees or to quality production of the product.
281
When time permits, employees may be expected to perform other tasks, relative to their normal operations.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA) By Robert White
282
October 25, 1990
(79)
Journeyman/woman
Safety Training
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations, the parties discussed safety training for Skilled Trades personnel. The importance of proper training in such matters was acknowledged and the parties agreed that adequate safety training should be provided.
The value of the present training programs (i.e. job hazard analysis, 5-minute safety talks and safety procedures) were recognized and the Company agreed to place emphasis on improving their presentation.
The Company is willing to continue to train joumey-men/women during the current contract and realizing the value of the experience to be gained from apprentice health and safety training, promises to implement joumeymen/women safety training for newly hired journeymen/women.
It was agreed that consistent with the needs of each plant, up to 40 hours of Health and Safety training will be provided each new journeyman/woman as soon as reasonably practicable after employment.
The National Health and Safety Committee will provide guidance to the Local Health and Safety Committees to ensure that the nature and quality of the content of the training and the method of providing the training meets the intent of this letter.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION 
By Robert White
283
October 25, 1990
(80) Apprentice Health and Safety Training
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations, the parties discussed safety training for skilled trades apprentices. The importance of proper training in such matters was acknowledged and the parties agreed that adequate safety training would be provided, consistent with the requirements at each plant, to all apprentices of up to eighty (80) hours duration. The method of providing this safety training will be jointly established locally and will be reviewed by the Local Joint Apprenticeship Committee and the Local Health and Safety Committee. A copy of each revised schedule of shop training and related training incorporating the safety training will be forwarded to the National Apprentice Committee for approval. The National Health and Safety Committee will provide guidance to the Local Health & Safety Committees to ensure that the nature and quality of the content of the training and the method of providing the training meets the intent of this letter.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
284
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(81)
Committeeperson Safety Training
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the recent negotiations the parties discussed the safety training needs for plant shop committeepersons.
The parties agreed that every plant wilt undertake a safety training program in order to assist the plant shop committeeper-son to be even more effective in achieving health and safety results in the Committeeperson’s area.
To assist the Committeeperson in this regard, it was agreed the Committeepersons will participate in the Journeyman/woman Health and Safety ‘Training Program and all pertinent Health and Safety Training Programs presented to hourly personnel in their plant. The Committeeperson’s alternate will be allowed to function during the period of time that the Committeeperson is in the classroom.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL. UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
285
October 25,1990
(82)
Stewards
Safety Training
Attention: Mr. Robert White
Dear Sirs:
During 1990 negotiations the Union expressed a concern that a number of stewards did not participate in the Joumey-man/woman Health and Safety Training Program because there was no provision for alternates to replace the stewards during the stewards’ attendance at the 40-hour training.
The Company agrees that, in this instance, the 40-hour Journeyman/woman Health and Safety Training Program will be offered to the stewards who have not received the training and the stewards’ alternates will be allowed to function during production shifts when the steward is in attendance at the training.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
286
October 25, 1990
(83)
Additional Stewards Safety Training
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the recent negotiations the parties discussed the need for additional training of plant Stewards.
The parties agreed that every plant undertake a safety training program in order to assist the plant Steward to be more effective in maintaining safe and healthy conditions in the area.
This training program will be developed at the National Level and will include Company health and safety procedures, legislation, ergonomics and procedures to address worker safety concerns and ways to reduce work refusals.
The training will not exceed twenty-four (24) hours and may be presented in increments of up to eight (8) hours as determined at the National Level.
It is further agreed that the training will be co-ordinated b) the Local Joint Health and Safety Committee in the plants. It is further understood that during, a regular production shift, the Steward’s alternate would function.
In the event the Health and Safety Representative of the Joint Health and Safety Committee attended or participated in the training, time spent would not be counted as part of the allowance under the Collective Agreement.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
287
October 25, 1990
(84)
Alternate Health and Safety Representatives
- Training
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
At recent negotiations Health and Safety Representative alternates were discussed.
In order to aid the Health and Safety alternate to function with confidence and with a knowledge of legislative requirements and hazard awareness, the parties agreed that Health and Safety alternates would receive the 40-hour Journeyman/woman Health and Safety Training course.
Where the Health and Safety alternate is a regular member of the Joint Health and Safety Committee, he/she would be entitled to receive Joint Health and Safety Committee training.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
288
October 25, 1990
(85)
New Employee Elealth & Safety Training
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations the Company and the Union discussed Health and Safety training for new employees. The patties agreed that such training will include, but not be limitefl to, the employee’s rights and duties under provincial legislation and the role of the Local Joint Health and Safety Committee.
Recognizing that each plant may utilize independent means to achieve appropriate safety orientation, the Local Health and Safety Committee may make recommendations regarding content and presentation.
‘When classroom training is presented, a CAW instructor may participate.
New employees will be paid at the appropriate rate,
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
289
October 25. 1990
(86)
Periodic Safety Talks
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations the parties discussed the Company’s program with respect to periodic safety talks with employees. These talks which are usually conducted by members of plant supervision serve the purpose of reminding the employees of the importance of safe work practices and encourages awareness to potential hazards in the workplace. Both parties share the view that conditions, equipment and processes differ by plant and that safety talks must of necessity be handled on a plant-by-plant basis.
The parties are aware that many individual plants have developed safety talk procedures which are effective in their design and manner of presentation and which in some cases, make use of recording and other mechanical devices. The review of these programs is a proper subject for discussion by the National Committee so that this information may be communicated to other Chrysler Plants for their evaluation.
Further, the parties agreed that the content of safety talks will be addressed by the Local Health and Safety Committees and that they may develop and recommend specific materials for inclusion in the program.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL  By Robert White
290
October 25, 1990
(87)
CPR & First Aid Training
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations, the parties discussed the value of CPR and first aid training as a precaution against emergencies that may arise in the plants during both production and maintenance hours.
In order that trained workers may be present under such emergencies, the Company agreed to pay tuition costs for interested employees to a maximum of one hourly rated employee in twenty-five. In addition to this number, Committeepersons and Stewards may attend.
It was understood that trainees would attend special courses on their own time.
Further, the parties agreed that the content of the first aid and CPR training will be addressed by the National Joint Health and Safety Commiltee and that they may develop and recommend specific materials for inclusion in the program.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL. UNION  By Robert White
291
October 25, 1990
(88)
Protective Clothing
and Personal Protective Equipment (P.P.E.)
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In the course of the current negotiations between Chrysler Canada Ltd. and the CAW, we have advised you that it is the policy of the Corporation to issue protective clothing and P.P.E. on the basis of the need for such clothing and P.P.E. on a particular job.
In making the determination of the need for protective clothing and P.P.E. consideration must be given to factors such as safety and job requirements.
Management informed the Union that it would be contrary to Corporation policy for its supervisors to indiscriminately and capriciously withdraw protective clothing and P.P.E. which had been issued inaccordance with the principles outlined above. The Corporation’s policy is that protective clothing and P.P.E. may only be withdrawn with the discontinuance of an operation for which it had been issued or where the conditions for which the protective clothing and P.P.E. was issued no longer pertains or where the issuance or retention is no longer consistent with the basic policy statement outlined above.
Where appropriate the Supervisor must properly instruct the worker on use, fit, care and storage of P.P.E.
Complaints arising in connection with the administration of the foregoing should be taken up with the supervisor, and, if unresolved, with the Labour Relations Supervisor.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
292
October 2.‘\ 1990
(89)
Safety Glasses
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
The Corporation will provide prescription safety glasses to seniority employees working on a job or in an area where eye protection is a company requirement provided the employee furnishes a prescription from the employee’s own doctor or optometrist. The Corporation will replace such glasses if damaged by a cause attributable to the employment or if the employee presents a new and different prescription from the doctor or optometrist. The Corporation will establish the standards and specifications for the frames and lenses and will select the manufacturing source.
The parties agreed a wider selection of frames and colours would be desirable.
‘It was agreed, after negotiations, effort would be made to increase the available frame selection within the limitations of our safety approval and competitive purchasing policies.
Further the parties agree that a 100% Eye Safety Program is desirable in certain plants and areas and the Union will support such programs where they are warranted for safety reasons.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
293
October 25,1990
(90)
Safety Shoes
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the recent negotiations the parties discussed a subsidy towards the purchase of safety shoes. The Company agreed to pay seniority employees actively at work up to sixty-five dollars towards the purchase of safety footwear from Company-approved sources, not more often than once each year, through the Payroll Deduction Program. It is understood that if the shoes are purchased for less than sixty-five dollars, the amount paid by the Company will be the actual cost of the shoes. An employee who elects to purchase safety footwear in accordance with this understanding will be required to wear such footwear on the job.
It is understood by the parties that employees hired by the Company as vacation replacements, more commonly referred to by the parties as “summer students” and T.P.T.’s, will not be entitled to participate in this program.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD, By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
294
October 2.5 1990
(91)
Chemical Hazard Training
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the course of negotiations the parties agreed that chemical hazard training would be provided to those employees who have not yet been trained.
It was also agreed:
(a)	the program will be a joint effort
(b)	training information will be jointly established
(c)	the recognized number of CAW trainers at each location would be:
W.A.P.- 5 Union P.R.T.A.P.- 3 Union Ajax - 3 Union Etobicoke- 1 Union
(d)	classroom training will be used at each location
(e)	Training Time 8 hours of basic training plus pertinent
hazardous material modules of 30 to 45 minutes each.
Very truly yours.
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
295
October 25, 1990
(92)
Hands Out of Point of Operation
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During negotiations the parties discussed the Corporation’s policy with respect to eliminating the danger resulting from the necessity of employees exposing their hands to the dies in a power press or Similar equipment.
The ultimate objective of the Corporation is to eliminate through engineering and process development the need for operators to expose their hands. Where the need continues to exist, appropriate safeguards are employed, such as hand tools, brake monitors, safety blocks, sensing devices, lockout procedures, mechanical interlocks, guarding, and dual operator controls.
To further enhance protection, when process or engineering changes are planned the Health & Safety Representatives will be consulted and may make recommendations to management for improvement.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL  By Robert White
296
October 25, 1990 (93)
Health & Safety — Working Alone
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the negotiations leading to the current collective bargaining agreement the parties discussed the Corporation’s policy with respect to the assignment of employees to work in isolated areas. Each local Health and Safety Committee shall assess the work activities in their plant to determine those specific work activities they consider hazardous for working alone and shall make recommendations to local Management for consideration. It is the policy of the Corporation that when such assignments are recognized as potentially hazardous, appropriate precautions are taken. Such precautions include providing air sampling and ventilation when necessary, necessary protective equipment, a reliable communication system, appropriate personnel surveillance arrangements, training and, as required, adequate support personnel. This will not change or restrict any mutually satisfactory local practice.
A Working Alone procedure will be developed at the National Level which will provide guidance for development of local procedures.
Very truly yours.
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
297
October 25, 1990   Program
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations, the parties discussed the Corporation’s Safety Mandatory Instruction SMI 107 - “Procedure for Neutralizing and Lacking Out Energy Sources for Machinery Equipment and Facility Services.” and specific plant lock-out procedures. It is recognized by both parties that an effective Iockout/tagout program can only be implemented at the plant level. In order to remain effective, this program must be reviewed and reemphasized.
It was agreed a formal Lock-Out Training Program will be jointly developed at the National Level which will be an 8 hour program.
The Corporation will instruct the management of each plant to review the plant’s specific lockout procedures program with the Local Joint Committee on Health and Safety and a member of the plant Shop Committee . It is understood that the Local Health and Safety Committee may discuss the procedures with plant management and develop them further to meet legislative requirements. There shall be an effective Iockout/tagout program in each plant and any and all employees required to work on machinery, equipment or systems where lockout is required shall receive training in accordance with the program.
It is understood the formal Lock-Out Training Program will prepare users of the procedure for generic lock-out application. For complex equipment employees using specific lock-out procedures will receive instruction from their supervisor. Further, users of plant lock-out procedures will receive one hour refresher instruction annually.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION 
By Robert White
298
October 25, 1990
(95)
New, Rebuilt or Relocated Equipment
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During current negotiations the parties discussed the Union concern regarding the timely installation of necessary safety measures on new, rebuilt or relocated equipment.
‘The Company shares the Union’s concern and assured the Union that it will give priority to such necessary measures on new and relocated equipment where these measures are required to protect the health of employees.
Proper guarding will be in place and adequate training will be provided to the operator to protect the operator’s safety.
When new equipment is purchased the Company will continue its present purchasing policy of 85 dBA with regard to noise.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
299
October 25, 1990
(96)
Ergonomics
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations the parties discussed the value of the application of Ergonomics in the Chrysler plants.
The Company assured the Union that it is committed to efforts, where feasible, to improve the interface of employees with the workplace. Accordingly, each Plant Manager will designate a member of the Industrial Engineering Department, oi another qualified member of Management, to have responsibilities for Ergonomics. The Local Health and Safety Committees will address Ergonomic concerns on a continuing basis with this plant Management designate.
The Local Health and Safety Committee will receive ergonomic training with a view to raising committee awareness to ergonomic problems.
It is agreed that the training will be structured within forty (40) hours.
It is intended the Local Joint Health and Safety Committees will address ergonomic needs on a priority basis and work progressively toward improving workplace/employee interface. When an ergonomic concern is beyond the scope of the parties and requires further expertise, a consultant may be hired to evaluate the problem. When the parties agree upon ergonomic solutions, they will be implemented on a priority basis.
In addition, where New Technology is to be introduced into a plant, the Joint Health and Safety Committee will be given the opportunity to review the technological changes and to make recommendations with respect to Ergonomic concerns.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese  
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION 
By Robert White
300
October 25, 1990
(97)
Heat
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In our recent negotiations the parties mutually recognized the desirability of an orderly procedure for accommodating employee requests to be excused from work during periods of excessively hot weather.
During such periods it is the Corporation’s general procedure to honour the requests of individual employees to be excused from work up to the number that can be spared.
When the number of employees requesting permission to be excused would, if granted, affect the efficiency of the operations, the Corporation is prepared to give full and complete consideration to a written request by the Union to the Plant Superintendent to suspend or shorten the scheduled hours of work.
In making its decision management will give due regard to the requirements of the plant, the existing conditions in the plant and the desires of employees. Consistent with the maintenance of efficient plant operations, every effort will be made to excuse employees in a reasonable time as replacements become available. In our discussions today, we agreed that it would be useful for representatives of the Corporation and Union including the National Health and Safety Co-ordinator and Health and Safety Representatives to meet on or before May 15 in each year to discuss the implementation of the matters raised in this letter with a view toward maintaining normal operating schedules during periods of excessively hot weather.
During excessively hot weather, Plant Management may provide Electrolyte Replacement drinks to those employees affected.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION 
By Robert White
301
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(98)
Neat Stress Index
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During current negotiations Heat Stress conditions for individuals and groups were discussed.
It was agreed that Plant Management will meet with the Plant Committee and Local Joint Health and Safety Committee to discuss ways of reducing Heat Stress as well as monitoring and communications.
The Heat Stress Index recommended by ACGIH and adopted by the Ministry of Labour is calculated using readings which include temperature, humidity, radiant heat and air flow and are compared with established allowable levels of Heat Stress which take into account work intensity and relief time.
When Heat Stress conditions prevail, the Local Joint Health and Safety Committee will monitor temperature and humidity and inform Management and Union of their findings.
Affected workers will be informed of such findings and appropriate relief measures including those developed by the Chrysler Medical Department will be employed.
Prior to conditions exceeding the ACGIH Index for Heat Stress, Plant Management and the Health and Safety Committee will meet with the Plant Committees and discuss options available to Management in the event conditions worsen.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD,
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA) By Robert White
October 23, 1990
(99)
Medical Surveillance Programs
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations the Union expressed a desire to be informed when safety related medical surveillance programs are being conducted at Chrysler locations. The Company stated to the Union that at the request of the National Health and Safety Committee the Plant Doctor will meet with and inform the Local Health and Safety Committee of these programs.
In addition, the Company Medical Director may attend National Committee meetings when specific discussion items are raised in advance by the Union.
It was further agreed immediately after negotiations the National Health and Safety Committee will meet with Company Medical Directorwith a view ofestablishing an internal mortality tracking procedure within the Medical Surveillance Program.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
303
October 25, 1990
(100)
Review of Medical Department Programs
Attention: Mr. Robert White
Dear Sirs:
During current negotiations the Union requested the opportunity to review Medical Department programs at Chrysler Canada plants.
This letter will confirm that the Company is prepared to arrange for the Company Medical Director to meet with the National Health and Safety Committee, at a mutually agreeable time, to review Company medical programs and policies. This review is limited to matters of non accessibility of medical records, medical department organization, compliance with Designated Substances Regulations, medical programs and policies, or other mutually agreed to issues submitted in advance of such meeting by members of the National Health and Safety Committee.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:  
304
October 25,1990
(101) Confidential Medical Information
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations the parties discussed the confidentiality and disclosure provisions of the Health Disciplines Act (Ontario).
‘The Company will instruct its medical department to review this matter with the National Health and Safety Committee at an early date with the objective of developing an understanding of the requirements of the Act.
In the interim, it is understood that the Company’s medical department will provide, upon request, and as prescribed by legislation and interpreted by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario to each employee or the employee’s authorized agent, the results of any examination or treatment performed by the Company’s medical department. Information of a personal nature may be released only at the discretion of the physician.
It is understood that the Union is not automatically an authorized agent as described in the Health Disciplines Act (Ontario).
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
305
October 25, 1990
(102)
Infectious/ Communicable Diseases
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations the parties discussed the role of the Corporate Medical Department, the National Joint Committee on Health and Safety and Local Health and Safety Committees in relation to infectious/communicable diseases in the workplace.
Management informed the Union that it will instruct the Medical Department to review this matter with the National Health and Safety Committee at an early date with the objective of developing acceptable procedures on notification, communication, education and medical review at all locations.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL  By Robert White
306
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(103)
Liquid and Air Supply Systems
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During current negotiations the Company agreed that, within six (6) months of the signing of this Agreement, it will provide to the National Health&Safety Committee the following information:
(1)	An inventory of all liquid and air supply systems.
(2)	An Inspection/Preventive Maintenance Program for each
system.
(3)	Microbiological Programs for each system that include full chemical formulation for all compound used and usage records.
(4)	A medical review program for each location.
(5)	Emergency procedures for each location.
The foregoing to be implemented in full consideration with local Joint Health & Safety Committees.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
307
October 25, 1990
(104)
Noise Abatement Program
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations, the parties discussed various aspects of noise abatement in the Company’s plants.
It is evident that the problem of noise varies in kind and intensity in each plant. Thus, it is not feasible to establish a specific noise abatement program generally applicable throughout all the Company’s facilities.
It was also agreed that a Noise Committee comprised of Union/Managemenl members will oversee noise abatement across the plant. This committee will also make any recommendations to senior management, on a priority basis, of those areas deemed to be over the legislated requirements, and assist in the plans to undertake progressive improvements.
Management also agreed that a consultant may be engaged for purposes of assisting in the determination of recommended improvements.
The parties further agreed to conduct audiometric tests annually for those employees who work, on a regular basis, in areas where noiseexceeds 85 dBA. Further, permanent records ofnoise will be maintained at each plant location.
When new equipment is purchased the Company will continue its present purchasing policy of 85 dBA with regard to noise.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
308
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(105)
Chemical Information
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During, the current negotiations the parties discussed the need to have information on all hazardous chemicals before they enter the plant.
The Company assured the Union that it intends, by means of its Hazardous Material Permit System to evaluate hazardous materials before introducing them into the workplace. This program includes hazardous materials which a contractor would use on our premises and to which company employees would be exposed. The Company will continue its efforts in this regard and the Hazardous Materials Committee will review local procedures for approval of all hazardous materials coming into the plant.
Additionally, the Company agreed that the management and union members of the Local Health and Safety Committee will be members of the Local Plant Hazardous Materials Control Committee, and that a copy of the local Hazard Communication Sheet Binder would be supplied to the Union member of the Local Health and Safety Committees for their use.
Binders will be updated promptly after receipt of revisions by Plant Management.
It is understood that use of these binders and the contents therein, and any other information provided, shall be limited to the purpose of evaluating a process, job or hazard and shall not be reproduced, published and/or distributed for any other purpose. In providing Hazard Communication Sheets, the Company agreed to provide information regarding chemicals, as listed in the Regulation Respecting Control of Exposure to Biological or Chemical Agents and the WHMIS list of controlled substances along with percentage ranges according to WHMIS by November 30,1987. Furthermore, where there is a specific concern regard-
309
ing a hazardous material, the Local Health and Safety Committee will be provided with additional pertinent information.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CAN AD A) By Robert White
310
October 25,1990
(106)
Chemical Data Link CCOHS
Attention: Mr. Robert White
Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations, the parties discussed the desirability of accessing, the on-line information systems of the Canadian Centre On Occupational Health and Safety and making this information available to Local Joint Health and Safety Committees.
Management informed the Union that it would, at an early date, complete the necessary arrangements with CCOHS to use this system at all plant locations. It also informed the Union that it would co-operate with the Union in conducting on site training for Local Joint Health and Safety Committee members and that as early as possible, as suitable terminals become available, arrangements will be made to make them accessible to Local Joint Health and Safety members.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD, By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
311
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(107)
Records of Breathing Zone Exposure
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations the Company assured the Union that results of all breathing zone samples taken in oui Canadian plants be entered in/on the employee’s medical file.
Further where it has been established by a nurse or doctor because of a visit to first aid that an employee has had an exposure to a workplace chemical or process emission, the nurse or doctor shall enter the part number of the chemical and/or the chemical name on the employee’s medical file.
‘Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
312
October 25 1990 (108)
Canadian Health Research
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations the parties devoted considerable attention to the subject of occupational health within groups of Chrysler employees represented by the CAW.
The Company recognizes that there is value in health research and will pursue jointly with the CAW. proposals for occupational health and engineering control research studies b) reputable institutes and/or universities. It was understood that such research would be funded by other than Company sources.
Such proposals should be directed to the National Health and Safety Committee.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
313
October 25, 1990
(109)
Preventive Maintenance
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations, the Company and the Union discussed problems associated with maintaining a safe working environment. The Company assured the Union of its continued recognition of the value of a sound Preventive Maintenance Program and the need to maintain, with priority, the high safety standards established for machinery and equipment.
The Supervisor in each work area continues to be responsible for assuring proper preventive maintenance and follow-up to provide a safe work environment. In addition, in order to assure that the implementation of safety-related maintenance work is followed up promptly, local Management wilt advise the Local Health and Safety Committee of the individual/ individuals who have the responsibility of prioritizing maintenance work assignments in relation to safety matters.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL  By Robert White
314
September 18, 1987
(110)
Health and Safety -Use of Camera
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations, it was agreed that a plant camera be provided to the Local Joint Committee on Health and Safety and will be used as an aid in conducting joint investigations and inspections where special circumstances dictate the need, such as where photographs are necessary to enable the Local Joint Committee to adequately explain or describe serious safety or health problems to responsible plant management. The Local Joint Committee may also use the camera to photograph health and safety items that are being referred to the National Joint Committee on Health and Safety.
The camera will be made available for use by each member of the Committee and photographs jointly reviewed at theearliest opportunity. Such photographs shall remain the property of the Corporation and shall be for the internal use of the Local and National Joint Committees only and shall not be reproduced, published or distributed.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
315
October 25, 1990
(111)
Contact Procedure
of Health & Safety Representative foi
Work Refusal
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
In the event of a work refusal under the Occupational Health and Safety Act occurring ori the same shift as the regular Health and Safety Representative, it will be our procedure to call the Health and Safety Representative.
Where a work refusal occurs on an off shift, the Health and Safety Representative will be notified by calling said Health and Safety Representative at a telephone number which is listed with Management for that purpose. If the Health and Safety Representative cannot be reached we will endeavour to contact the designated replacement provided said designated replacement too has submitted a telephone number to Management.
Should we be unable to reach the regular Health and Safety Representative, or the designated replacement, we will contact the Steward for the area who, from our experience, is usually present when a work refusal occurs.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. Ely K.R.Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
316
October 25, 1990
(112) Notification of Fatalities
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations the Company agreed to advise the National and Local Health and Safety Committees of industrial fatalities in Chrysler U.S. plants within two days of Chrysler Canada Ltd. being notified by the Corporation. Additional related information will be forwarded to the National and Local Health and Safety Committees in writing when received by Chrysler Canada Ltd.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
317
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(113)
Official Safety Complaint Form
Attention: Mr. Robert White
Dear Sirs:
At recent negotiations, the parties agreed where worker
concerns for Health and Safety are raised with a Supervisor, an
Official Safety Complaint Form:
1.	Will be completed by the Supervisor when made aware of the problem.
2.	The Supervisor will retain a copy of the Complaint form and supply a copy to the Area Manager concerned. The Area Manager/Superintendent must log and file all forms in the Division Safety Complaint Log Book.
3.	The remainder of the form will then be sent to the Company Safety Co-ordinator.
4.	The Company Safety Co-ordinator will log and track the Complaint form by number.
5.	The Company Safety Co-ordinator will distribute copies of the form to the service function requested and the Union.
6.	It is the Supervisor’s responsibility to follow-up advising the worker of progress toward resolution of the Complaint.
7.	When the Complaint is resolved to the satisfaction of the Area Manager/Superintendent, the Supervisor must send a copy of the form to the Safety Department for completion of the log entry.
8.	The Official Safety Complaint Form will be recognized by Maintenance, Manufacturing, Engineering and other service divisions as requiring TOP PRIORITY.
9.	Matters not resolved by this procedure after all steps have been followed may be placed on an agenda and presented by the Health and Safety Committee to the Manufacturing
318
Engineering Manager/General Superintendent Maintenance or equivalent.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
319
October 25,1990 (114)
Minute of Silence
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the course of these negotiations the Union requested a minute of silence be observed in the plants covered by this Agreement in memory of those persons who have died in industrial accidents. Such moment of silence will be observed each year on April 28, at 11 :00 a.m. or at such time as determined by local plant management which will have the least impact on plant operations.
To mark the observance flags will be lowered to half staff.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL  By Robert White
320
October 25, 1990
Lift 
Driver Training
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations the parties discussed the value: of formal Lift Truck Driver Training.
It was agreed the Training will be jointly approved at the national level and will be conducted in both classroom and practical settings.
The training is considered suitable for delivery by Management and CAW Instructors.
Vertalift (Zoom Boom/Scissor Lift) Training is also desirable. It is recognized, equipment varies from location to location and the training is best developed locally. The training will also be conducted in both classroom and practical settings.
This training will become a part of the Licencing procedure in each plant.
Recognition is given for Lift Truck training recently conducted by Management and CAW plant trainers in some plants and a refresher course will be specially designed to ensure all drivers are competent under the licencing procedure.
The refresher course will be structured so that each driver will have had the equivalent of 8 hours training.
Those employees who will be included are those Material Handlers, Maintenance Workers and Janitors normally assigned to Lift Truck or Vertalift driving.
The combined program will be developed to suit the needs of specific groups and shall in no case exceed 8 hours in duration.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA) By Robert White
October 25, 1990
(116)
Janitors/Booth Cleaners
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations the parties discussed the value of Basic Health and Safety Training for Janitors/Booth Cleaners.
It was agreed all Janitors/Booth Cleaners receive 40 hours Health and Safety Training.
The training may be divided into 8 hour modules and presented on a regular basis throughout the life of the agreement.
Training will be developed nationally in cooperation with the local Health and Safety Committees and will contain both generic and Plant specific training.
The National Health and Safety Committee will provide guidance to ensure the nature and quality of content and method of presentation meets the intent of this letter.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
322
October 25, 1990
(117) Aids Training
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
At the recent negotiations it was agreed that a training module on AIDS will be developed at the National level and that the training will be presented to all Health and Safety Representatives.
The training will be incorporated into the Joint Health and Safety Committee annual training and will not exceed three (3) hours.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
323
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(118)
Joint Health & Safety Committees Duties and Responsibilities
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations the parties discussed the desirability of further enhancing the effectiveness of the plant Joint Health and Safety Committees.
The importance of a high profile, non adversarial, Joint management of the plant Health and Safety programs to safeguard workers Health and Safety was recognized.
It is agreed the National Health and Safety Coordinator and the Manager of Occupational Health and Safety will meet shortly after negotiations to clarify the Joint duties and responsibilities of the committees in each plant and present these at the earliest opportunity at the Annual Joint Health and Safety Committee Training.
Recognized Committee duties and responsibilities, when shared, will further improve Committee relationships, promote growth of the committees success through making each com-mitteeperson responsible for formal investigation, analysis, reporting and recommending improvements, in areas such as Accident Control, Hazard Recognition and Removal, Legislation Compliance, Corporate Health and Safety Policy and Program Compliance.
Through greater participation improved communication and greater responsibility for Health and Safety Committees Chrysler and the CAW will be better equipped to jointly meet the challenge of Health and Safety in the future.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA) By Robert White
324
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(119)
Joint Statement on Health and Safety Work Refusals
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During the current negotiations the Company and the Union reaffirmed their commitment to provide a safe and healthy workplace for employees. The parties agreed that practical solutions to health and safety concerns are best achieved by responding to such concerns in a prompt and cooperative manner. The Company recognizes that the workers’ right to refuse to work is clearly defined in provincial health and safety legislation and is an integral part of employee rights in the workplace. However, the parties recognize the importance of resolving health and safety concerns before they become work refusals and without toss ol production.
The Company expressed its concern over employee health and safety work refusals where Supervisors have no prior know-edge of such concerns or dangers. The parties acknowledged that in these cases it is detrimental to Company and Union efforts to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, production lost during such refusals has a negative impact on the Company’s competitive position and the job security of employees.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA)
By Robert White
325
October 25, 1990
(120)
Substance Abuse/ Drug Testing
Attention: Mr Robert White Dear Sirs:
During 1990 negotiations, the Company and the Union had comprehensive discussions regarding the issue of employee substance abuse. In this regard, the parties agreed that the consumption of certain drugs and/or alcohol may impair an employee’s health and endanger his/her safety, or that of fellow employees and the public at large. As worker health and safety are of paramount concern to the Company and the Union, the parties are committed to improving the well-being of employees and maintaining a safe workplace through the effective implementation of the Employee Assistance and Substance Abuse Program, t
During these negotiations, the parties also discussed at length the issue of mandatory drug and alcohol testing in the workplace. In recent years, this issue has been the subject of considerable public debate and a number of legal cases in various jurisdictions. The parties agreed that the debate and case law in this area is still evolving and it is yet unclear whether such testing will be unconditionally supported by the courts.
Some governments have also introduced mandatory drug and alcohol testing laws for specific job functions. These laws recognize the concerns of a number of these legislators regarding the adverse effects of substance abuse on families, the workplace and the general public.
The parties acknowledged that as the public gains a broadei understanding of the costs and dangers associated with substance abuse, other governments may also introduce such laws and apply them more broadly.
326
Prior-to any introduction of such legislation in Canada, the Company will not introduce drug testing into the workplace.
Very truly yours.
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K..R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CANADA) By Robert White
327
October 25, 1990
(121)
Skilled Trades — Inverse Seniority Long Term Layoffs
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
During 1990 negotiations the parties discussed the application of inverse seniority by trade and plant for temporary layoffs. The parties agree to extend these arrangements to longer periods of layoff, by mutual agreement.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
328
October 25, 1990
(122)
Notification — Tooling Outsourcing
Attention: Mr. Robert White
Dear Sirs:
In the event a decision to use a non-Company source foi tooling work is being contemplated, local management will, except where time and circumstances prevent it, notify the Union in writing and have advance discussion with local union representatives concerning the nature, scope and approximate dates ol the work to be performed and the reason why management is contemplating utilizing a non-Company source. At such times, Company representatives are expected to afford the Union opportunity to comment on the Company’s plans and to give appropriate weight to those comments in the light of attendant circumstances.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
329
October 25, 1990
National Union (CAW-Canada)	(123)
Social Justice Fund
Attention: Mr. Robert White
Dear Sirs:
During 1990 negotiations, the parties discussed the Union’s plan to establish a social justice fund. The purpose of this fund would be to provide financial assistance to such entities as food banks, registered Canadian charities, and international relief measures to assist the innocent victims of droughts, famines and other dislocations.
Subject to the following conditions, the Company will make quarterly contributions to such a fund equal to one cent (10) for each straight time hour worked in the preceding thirteen (13) week period on the following dates:
Hours Worked	Payment Date
10/01/90-12/30/90 12/31/90-03/30/91 04/01/91-06/30/91 07/0 1/91 - 09/29/91 09/30/9 1 -12/29/9 1 12/30/91 - 03/29/92 03/30/92 - 06/28/92 06/29/92 - 09/27/92 09/28/92 -12/27/92 12/28/92 - 03/28/93 03/29/93 - 06/27/93 06/28/93 - 09/26/93
01/31/90
04/30/91
07/31/91
10/31/91
01/31/92
04/30/92
07/31/92
10/31/92
01/31/93
04/30/93
07/31/93
10/31/93
The Company will make these quarterly payments provided
that:
(a)	the Union incorporates the fund as a non-profit corporation under the Canada Corporations Act, and ensures that all necessary steps are taken to maintain the corporation in proper legal standing and that all requirements of the Act are met;
(b)	the Union registers the non-profit corporation as a charity under the Income Tax Act of Canada and maintains the registration in good standing;
330
(c)	the Union obtains and maintains a favourable Income Tax Ruling from the federal Department of National Revenue that all contributions which the Company makes to the non-profit corporation are tax deductible:
(d)	at all times, the objects, by-laws and resolutions of this non-profit corporation limit it to making only the following types of financial contributions:
(i)	contributions to other Canadian charities that are registered under the Income Tax Act,
(ii)	contributions to international relief efforts that are recognized by the Canadian International Development Agency (C.I.D.A.), or any successor body that performs like functions, and to which C.I.D.A. is also making financial contributions;
(iii)	contributions to any Canadian or international non-partisan re lief efforts to which other Canadian registered charities are also making financial contributions.
It is agreed by the parties that the Company shall be under no obligation to begin making the quarterly contributions set forth above until such time as the Union provides it with documentation to establish, to the Company’s satisfaction. that the requirements of points (a) to (cl) above have been, and are continuing to be met. Upon the Union providing this documentation to the Company, the Company, at the next quarterly contribution date, will make that contribution and all previously unpaid quarterly contributions to the fund’s non-profit corporation. Thereafter the Company will pay each subsequent quarterly contribution as set forth above, as long as the requirements of points (a) to(d) above continue to be met by the Union.
Very truly yours.
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD.
By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved:
NATIONAL UNION (CAW-CAN ADA) By Robert White
331
SPECIAL PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO AJAX TRIM PLANT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Special Provisions Paragraph Page
REPRESENTATION
Day Shift Rights .	. I
Plant Shop Committee .	.	2
SENIORITY
Seniority Defined ...	3
Job Protection -- Employees Absent from the Active Roil Because of Illness	.	.	4
Seniority of Union Representatives	5
Seniority of Employees Promoted to Salary ....	6
TRANSFER AND PROMOTION
Transfer of Employees In The Plant .	7
Transfer of Operations .	8
Definition of Permanent Vacancy	9
Posting and Application Procedure	10
Loaning of Employees ...	11
LAYOFF AND RECALL
Procedure — Other Than Skilled Trades	.	.	.12
Procedure -Temporary Layoffs 13
OVERTIME
Overtime--Other Than Skilled Trades .	.	.	.	.	14
I
I
1
2
2
3
5
5
5
6
7
8
10
i
STATEMENT OF POLICY NO. 1
ANNUALINVENTORY...	10
STATEMENT OF POLICY NO. 2
ROTATION OF SHIFTS.... 10
LETTERS
Subject
Implementation of IO-Minute Rest
Period....................
Period When IO-Minute Rest Period Not Provided .	.
Which Approval Shall Not Be
Unreasonably Withheld . . . . Representation .	.	.	.	.	.
Letter
NO.	Page
I	12
2	13
3	14
4	15
li
REPRESENTATION
Paragraph (1) Day Shift Rights
Members of the Plant Shop Committee and Executive Board members will not be required to work on the second or third shifts. The Union shall notify the Corporation in writing from time to time of the names of the Executive Board members [not to exceed (3)], of the respective effectivedates of their appointment and the names, if any, of those former members whom they are replacing or discontinuing.
Paragraph (2) Plant Shop Committee
One member of the Plant Shop Committee shall be an employee on a skilled trades classification.
SENIORITY
Paragraph (3) Seniority Defined
Seniority is by department, and may be exercised as provided in Section (49) (b) by department, by division and by plant. Divisions shall be two or more departments. Departments grouped into a division shall consist of substantially similar work as determined by local negotiations.
Paragraph (4) Job Protection — Employees Absent from the Active Roll because of Illness
An employee who is removed from the active roll because of illness supported by satisfactory medical evidence will be eligible to return to said employee’s own job within a classification, if the job continues to exist and be readily identifiable, provided the employee returns within six (6) months from the original date of disability or within such further period as mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Corporation. Pending such an employee’s return (while medical evidence supports the likelihood that the employee will be able to return within the said six
(6) months) the job left open by such employee’s absence nay be filled on a temporary basis for the period involved, until the employee returns or medical evidence confirms that the employee will be unable to return, in which case the job shall be considered a permanent opening subject to posting requirements.
Paragraph (5) Seniority of Union Representatives
Notwithstanding their seniority status:
(a)	Plant Shop Committeepersons and Stewards shall, in the event of a layoff, be retained or returned to work when work is
\ available in their jurisdiction in the plant in which they are employed, provided they are able and willing to do the work being done at the time. and
(b)	Chairperson of the Shop Committee, President, of Local 1090, Vice-President, Financial Secretary, Health and Safety Representative and Benefit Plans Representative shall, in the event of a layoff, be retained or returned to work when work is available in the plant in which they are respectively employed, provided they are able and willing to do the work being done at the time.
Paragraph (6) Seniority of Employees Promoted to Salary
(a)	An employee who transferred out of the bargaining unit or from a position subsequently included in the bargaining unit at any time prior to-March 12,1966, and who is thereafter transferred again to a position included in the bargaining unit, shall return to the bargaining unit with a seniority date that represents the seniority the employee had accumulated as of March 12, 1966.
An employee transferred out of the bargaining unit aftei March 12, 1966, and who is thereafter transferred again io a position included in the bargaining unit shall return to the bargaining unit with a seniority date that represents the seniority the
2
employee had accumulated immediately prior to the transfer out of the bargaining unit.
An employee transferred to a position included in the bargaining unit as provided above shall be transferred to the department in which the employee worked immediately prior to the transfer from the unit and shall displace the junior employee in that department. If that department no longer exists or if the employee’s seniority does not entitle the employee to displace thejunior employee in the department theeniployee shall.seniority permitting, displace the junior employee in the plant and shall enjoy seniority rights in all respects according to the provisions of this Agreement.
(b)	This Paragraph shall not apply
(i)	until the plant is converted to plant-wide layoff following a temporary or model change layoff;
(ii)	to employees who after their transfer from the bargaining unit worked or hereafter work in an excluded classification which is subject to the provisions of any other Collective Bargaining Agreement;
(iii)	to employees who, while working in an excluded classification, left the employ of the Corporation at any lime prioi to March 12, 1966, or who thereafter leave the employ of the Corporation and are subsequently rehired.
TRANSFER AND PROMOTION
Paragraph (7) Transfer of Employees Within the Plant
(a)	When a seniority employee is transferred Lo fill a vacancy in the plant and has the ability to do the work within a period of twenty (20) days working on the job or longer if agreed to between the Corporation and the Plant Shop Committee, said employee shall carry the respective accumulated seniority to the new department and shall enjoy seniority rights accordingly.
(b)	In the event the employee fails to qualify within the agreed upon time, the employee shall have the opportunity to revert to the former job within the department from which the employee was transferred.
(c)	The Chairperson of the Plant Shop Committee will be notified of any proposed promotion, demotion or discharge.
(d)	When an employee is transferred at own request from one department to another, the employee shall carry to the new department the seniority accumulated in the department from which the employee was transferred and continue to accumulate seniority in the new department.
(e)	When an employee is transferred from one department to another at the request of the Corporation, the employee shall retain seniority in the department from which the employee was transferred for a period of thirty (30) calendar days. Thereafter the employee shall carry to the new department the seniority accumulated in the department from which the employee was transferred and continue to accumulate seniority in the new department. An employee so transferred will be given the choice of returning to the department from which the employee was transferred or remaining where the employee is if an opening occurs in such department within a period of six (6) months. In transferring employees under this Subparagraph (e) the junior employee in the department concerned with the ability to satisfactorily perform the work to be done shall be transferred.
(0 In the case of a temporary transfer to a classification with a lower base rate, the employee with the least departmental seniority who has the ability to perform the work to be done, shall be the first transferred. This clause shall not apply in the event of an employee being transferred in lieu of layoff.
(g) In cases of proposed transfer of an employee to another department within the plant, the Corporation will transfer the junior employee in the department.
4
Paragraph (8) Transfer of Operations
When operations being performed by employees covered by this Agreement are transferred from one department to another within a plant, the senior employees on the operations so transferred may elect to be transferred to the receiving department, seniority prevailing and will carry full seniority to the receiving department.
Paragraph (9) Definition of Permanent Vacancy
Supervisors, in filling permanent vacancies within the department, will give preference to employees with the greatest seniority who are able to satisfactorily perform the work to be done. A permanent job is one which is expected to last more than thirty (30) days unless extended by mutual agreement.
At the point that by the operation of this Paragraph or Para graph (10) a job becomes permanent, it shall be subject to the job opportunity claims outlined in Paragraph (IO) to the extent provided for in that Paragraph.
Paragraph (10) Posting and Application Procedure
(a)	Whenever vacancies exist or new jobs are created excepting those affecting promotions tosupervisory positions in the plant notice of such vacancies or new jobs shall be posted on bulletin boards in the plant for a period of three (3) days. Appli cation to fill such vacancies or new jobs shall be made on forms supplied by the Corporation within the said three (3) days and the applicants will be considered in accordance with seniority and ability to satisfactorily perform the work to be done. I: is agreed that only three (3) postings will be made as a result of a vacancy in a classification. The successful applicant’s name will be posted within three (3) days from the time the posting is removed from the board.
(b)	An employee who has bid successfully on a job posting may not bid on another job posting for a period of six (6) months, unless the job to which the employee was transferred as a result
5
of such successful bid is subsequently discontinued; then the employee would be free to bid on the next job posting.
(c)	The job posting clause will be non-operative for a period of one (1) month during a temporary layoff or model change layoff. In the event a new job or classification occurs during this period it may be filled on a temporary basis, but the Corporation will be required to post the new job in accordance with (a) above. Any ability gained by such an employee will not be used against employees with a higher amount of seniority who will bid for job postings after model changeover.
(d)	In the case of demotion to a classification with a lowei base rate the employee with the least departmental seniority shall be the first to be demoted.
(e)	Probationary employees shall not be eligible to exercise any job opportunity rights.
(f)	‘The successful applicant on a job posting shall carry said employee’s respective accumulated seniority to the new department immediately and shall enjoy seniority rights accordingly.
(g)	In the event an employee is transferred from, laid off, oi cut back from a department for a period in excess of six (6) months, then the job or jobs perfoimed by the employee prior to being transferred, laid off or cut back, must be posted plant wide, in the event they subsequently become available.
(h)	The successful applicant on a job posting will, except in unusual circumstances, be transferred to the new job within a period of five (5) working days of the date on which the employee is determined by Management to be the successful applicant.
Paragraph (11) Loaning of Employees
The Company agrees that when employees are to be loaned the Company will use the junior available employee who is able to satisfactorily perform the work required to be done.
6
LAYOFF AND RECALL
Paragraph (12) Procedure — Other Than Skilled Trades
(a)	in any layoff or recall where the particular skill of the employee is involved and where the layoff or recall will not exceed two (2) full working days it shall be considered as temporary and the provisions relating to seniority shall not apply. The provisions of this Paragraph shall not apply to any individual employee for more than a total of two (2) full working days in any one (I) month.
(b)	In any instance where the above situation exists the Plant Shop Committee will be notified prior to such layoff.
(c)	In the event of a reduction in the number of employees in a department for a period of five (5) full working days or less, probationary employees in the department or departments involved shall be the first to be laid off and thereafter employees in the department or departments with the least departmental seniority and so on.
(d)	In the event of a reduction in the number of employees in a department or departments for a period in excess of five (5) full working days or more, probationary employees of the Corporation shall be the first laid off and thereafter employees of the Corporation with the least plant-wide seniority and so on.
(e)	Where a layoff has been commenced on a departmental seniority basis and management is of the opinion that such a layoff will be for a period in excess of five (ii) full working days, management will recall those employees with greater plant-wide seniority at any time within five (5) full working days to replace those employees who are working with less plant-wide seniority if they arc able to perform the work.
(f)	In the cast: of a reduction of the working force, where in order to retain an employee w ith plant-wide seniority the cm-
ployee must be transferred in lieu of layoff to another job, said employee shall only be entitled to transfer to a job which the employee has previously performed satisfactorily or to a job which the employee is able and willing to perform within a reasonable time.
(g)	The Corporation agrees, whenever possible, to advise employees twenty-four (24) hours in advance of a layoff.
(h)	In the event of an increase in the working force employees shall be recalled in reverse order in which they were laid off so that the last employee laid off shall be the first recalled, provided the employee is able and willing to perform the job available within a reasonable period of time. Employees thus recalled will be moved back to their former department in which they held seniority, prior to layoff, and to their formerjobs in such department as soon as such jobs become available.
(i)	In recalling employees after a model changeover, layoff, experienced cutters, regardless of seniority, may be called back to work five (5) full working days before any other employee in order to learn the changes of a new model and to expedite the star-up of production.
Paragraph (13) Procedure -Temporary Layoffs
When there is a temporary layoff, that is, areduction in force for a definite period of time which is not a temporary adjustment, employees in each department or such groupings of departments performing substantially similar work as may be agreed upon locally will be laid off as follows:
(a)	Probationary employees will be laid off.
(b)	Employees with less than one (I) year of seniority will be laid off according to seniority.
(c)	Employees with one (1) year or more of seniority will be laid off in the inverse or descending order of their seniority with the most senior employee being laid off first. They will be advised
8
of the expected duration of the layoff and their scheduled return date. However, such employees may elect to remain at work and if able to perform the available work will be permitted to do so in the same seniority order up to the number of employees required.
The above arrangement must result in maintaining an experienced, qualified work force capable of assuring the unintei-rupted efficient operation of the plant.
(d)	If the expected duration of the temporary layoff is subsequently extended to a later but definite date, employees laid off pursuant to Subparagraph (c) above will be afforded the option of returning to work on the date originally scheduled or remaining on layoff for the duration of the extended period.
An employee who elects to return on the originally scheduled date will displace the junior employee on the shift in the classification in the department.
(e)	(i) If it becomes necessary to recall employees laid off under Subparagraph (c) above prior to the date originally planned, they will be recalled in the ascending order of theii seniority with the most junior such employee on each shift in each classification in each department or group of departments being recalled first.
(ii)	If, after employees are temporarily laid off under Subparagraph (c), it is determined in a department or group of departments that the temporary layoff will be extended for an indefinite period of time, the work force in the department ot group of departments including those employees on temporary layoff wilt be adjusted within ten (IO) working days in accordance with Paragraph (I 2) above.
(iii)	If the duration of a temporary layoff is expected to exceed ten( 10) working days, the Local Union will be so notified. At the request of the Local Union, the Management will consider employees on all shifts in a department as being on one shift fot
9
the purposes of this Paragraph (13). In a temporary layoff of such expected duration, the Local Union may also request the Management to waive the Temporary Layoff provisions set forth in this Paragraph (13) and Management will reduce the working force according to the Layoff provisions as set forth in Paragraph (12) above. Either of such requests shall be made in writing within twenty-four (24) hours of the time the Union is notified of the layoff.
OVERTIME
Paragraph ('14) Overtime — Other Than Skilled Trades
Overtime other than in the skilled trades will be evenly distributed when reasonably possible among those employees in the same department or group and on the same shift, provided they are able to satisfactorily perform the work to be done. In the event an employee voluntarily misses a turn at such overtime the employee shall be considered as having worked the turn insofai as distribution of such overtime is concerned.
STATEMENT OF POLICY NO. 1 ANNUAL INVENTORY
At the Ajax Trim Plant, the Corporation reserves the right when taking inventories, to employ only those employees who are working in the stock chaser classification and familiar with the inventory to be taken.
STATEMENT OF POLICY NO. 2 ROTATION OF SHIFTS
The policy with respect to rotation in a department where work is performed on more than one shift is as follows:
1.	Where operations are performed on more than one shift those employees assigned to those operations will take their turn on such shifts without regard to seniority.
IO
2.	Where operations are performed only on one shift the employees assigned to those operations will not be subject to swinging. The Corporation and the Union may agree on exceptions.
3.	In administering the provisions of paragraph I, employees whenever reasonably practicable will not be required to work more than two (2) consecutive weeks on the second or third shift.
4.	This policy statement shall not interfere with any mutually acceptable arrangements between employees to exchange shifts where such arrangement is approved by the supervisors involved.
11
October 25, 1990
(D
Implementation
of IO-Minute Rest Period
Attention: Mr, Robert White Dear Sirs:
Within not more than five (5) working days after the scheduled vacation period, employees of the Ajax Trim Plant will receive one 1 O-minute rest period before lunch and another 10-minute rest period after lunch. The rest period before lunch shall be after the first two hours of the shift and the rest period aftei lunch shall be after the first two hours following the lunch period. Employees shall adhere strictly to said time limits. Continuation of said rest periods shall be conditional on strict adherence to said limits and to all other terms of this letter-agreement.
The employees shall produce as much with the above-mentioned rest periods as they would without the rest periods, and inestablishing work standards pursuant to Section (39) Work Standards of the Production and Maintenance Agreement between the parties hereto and in determining the fairness of said standards the parties and the Special Arbitrator shall treat such rest periods as time worked (i.e., the Corporation will require employees to work at 104.16 per cent of standard before and aftei such rest periods and increase the line speeds and modify the work and job assignments accordingly). Thus it is agreed that the production loss by reason of the rest periods shall be made up.
This letter-agreement shall run concurrently with the Agreement between the parties dated October 25,1990.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
12
October 25, 1990
(2)
Period When IO-Minute
Rest Period Not Provided
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section (39) of the Production and Maintenance Agreement between the parties hereto regarding two (2) hours during the shift that relief is not provided, it is understood and agreed that when the Corporation provides two IO-minute rest periods the two hours referred to in P & M Section (39) will be reduced to one hour and forty minutes.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL. UNION  By Robert White
13
October 25, 1990
(3)
Which Approval
Shall Not Be
Unreasonably
Withheld
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
Under normal conditions, Union Representatives will not ask for permission to leave their regular duties for the purpose of investigating and settling grievances during the first hour of the shift.
The Corporation and the Union recognize that common sense and a rule of reason must dictate exceptions to this general rule where abnormal conditions exist. Such exceptions, for the most part, shall only be necessary where circumstances exist over which the parties have no reasonable control.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD. By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approved: NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
14
October 25,1990 (4)
Representation
Attention: Mr. Robert White Dear Sirs:
At Ajax Trim Plant, during the life of the Collective Agreement, the Benefit Plans Representative will be allowed to function on a full time basis. The Union Counsellor will be allowed to function a maximum of 24 hours per week effective upon ratification and the Steward on the midnight shift will function as a Steward a maximum of two hours per shift.
Very truly yours,
CHRYSLER CANADA LTD By K.R. Francese
Accepted and Approve& NATIONAL UNION  By Robert White
15
2
3	4	5	6	7	6	9
10 11	12	13	14	15	16
17 18	19	20	21	22	23
24 25	26	27	28
1	2 3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11 12	13	14	15	16	17
18 19	20	21	22	23	24
25 26	27	28	29	30	31
MARCH
SEPTEMBER
1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	28
24 25 26 27 28 29 30	29 30
31
APRIL							OCTOBER					
	1	2	3	4	5	6		1	2	3	4	5
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	6	7 8	9	10	11	12
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	13	14 15	16	17	18	19
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	20	21 22	23	24	25	26
28	29	30					27	28 29	30	31		
MAY							NOVEMBER					
			1	2	3	4					1	2
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	3	4 5	6	7	8	9
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	10	11 12	13	14	15	16
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	17	18 19	20	21	22	23
26	27	28	29	30	31		24	25 26	27	28	29	30
JUNE							DECEMBER					
						1	1	2 3	4	5	6	7
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	8	9 10	11	12	13	14
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	15	16 17	18	19	20	21
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	22	23 24	25	26	27	28
23	24	25	26	27	28	29	29	30 31				
30												