COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT BETWEEN
DAVIDSON INSTRUMENT PANEL DIVISION, TEXTRON
AND
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO, CLC
LOCAL 889
1992
2
Wherever the singular and masculine are used in this Agreement they shall be construed as if the plural or feminine had been used where the context so requires, and the rest of the sentence shall be construed as if the grammatical and terminological changes thereby rendered
necessary have been made.
3
THIS AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO AS OF THE 1ST DAY OF JANUARY 1990.
BETWEEN t
DAVIDSON INSTRUMENT PANEL DIVISION, TEXTRON (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
- and
OF THE FIRST PART
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEOM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO-CLC, AND ITS LOCAL 889 (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1 - SCOPE AND RECOGNITION
1*01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and
exclusive bargaining agent for all of its employees at Port Hope, Ontario, save and except foremen, supervisors, persons above the rank of foreman or supervisor, office staff,
4
clerical staff, sales staff, students, security guards, full-time first aid staff, part-time temporary persons employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
1.02	The Company agrees that in the event it decides to
transfer all or a major part of its manufacturing operations from the Port Hope plant to another plant, which results in the permanent layoff of full-time employees it will meet with the Union within fifteen (15) working days of that announcement. Any permanent Port Hope Davidson Instrument Panel Division TEXTRON employee laid-off as a result of the transfer of work to any other Davidson Instrument Panel TEXTRON facility which might be established within the Durham or Northumberland Counties will be offered work within that new facility. Any such job offer would be subject to qualifications for the available job.
ARTICLE 2 - RELATIONSHIP
2.01	The Company and the Union agree that there will be
no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by the Company or the Union, or by
any of their representatives, with respect to membership or
5
non-membership in the Union. The Union agrees that no Union member will conduct Union activities on the premises of the Company except as specifically permitted by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	Except as, and to the extent specifically modified
by this Agreement, all rights and perogatives which the Company had prior to the execution of this Agreement are retained by the Company and remain exclusively and without limitation within the rights of the Company and its management. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company's right8 shall include: a) the right:	to maintain order, discipline and
efficiency; to make, alter, and enforce, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations, policies and practices, to be obeyed by its employees; to discipline and discharge employees for just cause. In the event the Union disputes the reasonableness of such rules and regulations, the Union shall have the right to file a policy grievance ±n respect hereof pursurant to the provisions of Article 7.11 of this Agreement. such
6
grievances shall specify the rule or rules being disputed.
b)	the right: to select, hire and control the working force and employees; to transfer, assign, promote, demote, classify, lay-off, recall, suspend, and retire employees pursuant to the provisions of any pension plan; to plan, direct and control operations; to designate, establish, revise or discontinue departments; to select and retain employees for positions excluded from the bargaining unit and to transfer employees into the bargaining unit.
c)	the right to determine:	the location and extent of its
operations and their commencement, expansion, curtailment, or discontinuance, the direction of the working forces; the products to be manufactured; the standards of production; the subcontracting or work; the schedules of work and of production; the number of shifts; the methods; processes and means of performing work; job content and requirements; quality and quantity standards; the qualifications of employees; the use of improved methods, machinery and equipment;
whether there shall be overtime work and who shall
7
perform such work, the number of employees needed by the Company at any time and how many shall operate or work on any job, operation, machine or production line; the administration of the Company's pay system: which jobs shall be incentive jobs and which jobs shall not; the number of hours to be worked; starting and quitting time, and generally, the right to manage the enterprise and its business without interference are solely and exclusively the right of the Company.
d)	Foremen and other exluded personnel will not perform work which supplants any other production, maintenance or warehouse employee except for purposes of instruction, inspection or in cases of emergency.
e)	The Company may from time to time appoint an employee to act as a "Group Leader".
Group Leader is not a separate classification as such and persons appointed as Group Leaders are expected to perform their regular duties.
A Group Leader shall guide, aid and instruct a designated group of employees and will be responsible for co-ordinating the work of the group and for the
quality and quantity of their work.
8
Group Leader appointments shall not be subject to the provision of Article 8.08 of this Collective Agreement. An employee designated as a Group Leader, will be paid, while serving as a Group Leader, fifty cents < .50) per hour more than the job rate of the highest classification held by anyone in the group he/she is leading. The fifty cents (.50) per hour premium will not be subject to overtime or shift premiums.
Group Leaders do not have any disciplinary responsibilities and may not enter into any dispute between the Company and any of its employees.
Group Leader appointments shall apply only in the Production, Maintenance, Mould Repair, Warehousing and Injection Moulding Departments,
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK-OFF OF UNION DUES
4.01	The Company and the Union agree that all present
employees, transferred employees, and new employees, must as a condition of employment have their regular monthly Union dues deducted in accordance with the Constitution of the Union and as determined by the Local Union No. 889 for the
9
life of this Agreement, Such deductions shall be in respect of regular monthly Union dues only, including first month's dues, and shall not apply to any levies or special assessments.
4.02	The amount to be deducted in accordance with the provisions of Article 4.01 hereof shall be in an amount provided by the Union Constitution. The Company shall remit the dues as aforesaid not later than the tenth day of each month following the month of such deduction to a designated Union officer. The Company will supply the Union with a list of the employees from whom deductions were made.
4.03	The Union agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless against all claims, demands and expenses, should any person at any time contend or claim that the Company has acted wrongfully or illegally in making such deductions.
ARTICLE 5 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
5.01	The Union undertakes and agrees that while this
Agreement is in operation neither the Union nor any employee shall take part in or call or encourage or support or condone any strike, picketing, sitdown, slowdown, or any
10
suspension of or stoppage of or impeding of or curtailment of or interference with work or production, which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company, nor shall there be any sympathy strikes or secondary boycotts and the Company agrees that it will not engage in any lockout during the term of this Agreement,
5.02	Any employee who participates in any of the
foregoing conduct shall be subject to discipline up to and including discharge* Such employee may have recourse to the grievance procedure and a board of arbitration shall have jurisdiction to determine if the grievor did, in fact, improperly participate in the foregoing conduct. If the arbitration board determines that the grievor did, in fact, improperly participate in the foregoing conduct, the board of arbitration shall not have jurisdiction to interfere with such discipline or discharge.
ARTICLE 6 - REPRESENTATION
6.01	Bargaining Committee
The Company acknowledges the right o'f the Union to appoint or otherwise select from the Union membership in the
11
Company’s Port Hope, Ontario plant, a Bargaining Committee comprised of not more than four (4) seniority employees in good standing of the Company. The Local Union President shall be Chairman thereof. The Company will recognize the Bargaining Committee for the purpose of handling any grievance or discussing a matter properly arising during the continuance of this Agreement. Wherever in this Agreement the term "committee'’ or the term "plant committee" is used, it shall be deemed to mean "Bargaining Committee,"
The Company agrees to recognize eight (8) stewards, who shall be seniority employees.
When there are fifty (50) or more employees on the night shift, the Union shall be entitled to an additional steward on that shift.
When there are more than five hundred (500) employees in the Bargaining Unit, the Union shall be entitled to two (2) additional stewards and when there are more than seven hundred and fifty (750) employees in the Bargaining Unit, the Union shall be entitled to one (1) additional steward.
The Company agrees to recognize one (1) additional
steward as a Chief Steward,
12
6.02	Not more than two (2) International Representatives of the Union may be present and participate in any meeting of the Plant Committee and the Company. The Company will not be required to meet a total of more than four (4) Union representatives at any time in addition to an International Representative of the Union.
6.03	One (1) member of the Plant Committee will be permitted to leave his work and unit when notified by his foreman that he has been summoned for the purpose of handling grievances. A member of the Plant Committee will be permitted to leave his work and unit when notified by his foreman that there will be a meeting with representatives of the Company. A Shift Steward may be permitted to leave his work when he has been notified by his foreman for the purpose of handling a grievance at the first or second step of the grievance procedure. Such employee shall record his time of leaving and returning to work on appropriate time cards. Time away from work for the purpose herein specified shall not on the aggregate exceed three (3) hours per week for any one individual.
6.04	A Committeeman or Shift Steward required under the
grievance procedure to enter another unit must inform the
13
foreman of that unit which he enters of the reason for his presence. Committeemen or Shift Stewards, as the case may be, shall expeditiously attend to the grievance so that no unnecessary lo ss of time or interference with production will result therefrom.
6.05	The Union recognizes and agrees that members of the Plant Committee and Shift Stewards have their regular duties to perform in connection with their employment. The Company will compensate such Committeemen and Shift Stewards for time spent at the plant during their regular working hours in handling grievances of employees pursuant to the grievance procedure at their regular straight time base hourly rate of pay, provided this privilege is not abused by the Committeemen or Shift Stewards. Committeemen or Shift Stewards will not be compensated for time spent: prior to or beyond their regular working hours on Union business.
6.06	Notwithstanding anything otherwise contained in this Agreement, the Company may delay or defer permission to a Steward, Committeeman, or other Union official who wishes to leave his work pursuant to the provisions hereof, if such leaving would interfere with the efficient operation of the
Plant.
14
6.07	The Union agrees to supply the Company with the names of Committeemen and Shift Stewards and to keep such list up to date at all times and the Company shall not be obliged to recognize such personnel until it has been so informed.
6.08	The employees shall be represented by stewards upon their shift as set out in Article 6.01 hereof, not more than two (2) of whom shall be from any single department with fewer than thirty (30) employees per shift.
For the purposes of this Article, areas of coverage, by stewards, will be mutually agreed upon by the parties during January of each calendar year.
Exceptions to the above due to transfers, reassignments, shift changes and layoffs may be mutually agreed upon by the parties as the need arises.
6.09	For the purpose of this Agreement, the Plant Grievance Committee and the stewards, together with the officers of the Local Union, shall be deemed to be officials of the Union. The parties hereto agree that the Union officials occupy positions of leadership and responsibility to see that this Agreement is faithfully carried out.
15
6.10	The Company will recognize a bargaining unit
employee, who has received training in time study methods, as an observer in cases where a work standard becomes the subject of a grievance. The observer shall have the r:ght to be present during a review of work method, time study and calculations necessary to check the general standard.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	The grievance procedures herein provided for are
among the most important matters in the successful administration of this Agreement. The Company and the Union therefore agree that the designated grievance procedure as herinafter set forth shall serve as and constitute the sole and exclusive means to be utilized by the grievor for the prompt disposition, decision and final settlement of a grievance arising in respect of the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, and the specifically designated grievance procedure shall be strictly followed. Wherever the term "grievance procedure'' is used in this Agreement it shall be considered as including the arbitration procedure.
16
7.02	"Grievance" shall mean a complaint or claim concerning improper discipline or discharge, or a dispute with reference to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement.
7.03	The Company shall be under no obligation to consider or process any grievance unless such grievance has been presented to the Company in writing at Step 1 of the grievance procedure within five (5) working days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based were known by the grievor. However, if the Company does consider or process a grievance which has been presented late, ’the Company shall not be estopped or precluded at any stage of the grievance procedure from taking the position that the grievance is late and not arbitrable.
7.04	All time limits referred to in the grievance procedure herein contained shall be deemed to mean "working days", ie., exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or the holidays set out in Article 12 hereof.
7.05	No employee shall have a grievance until he has discussed his complaint with his immediate supervisor. If the employee wishes, he may be accompanied by his steward.
If the employee’s immediate supervisor does not promptly
17
settle the matter to the employee's satisfaction an employee’s proper grievance shall be processed as follows: STEP NO. 1
If any employee has a grievance the grievance shall, within the five (5) working days referred to in Article 7.03, be reduced to writing and presented to the General Forernan. The steward will present the written grievance to his General Foreman. The General Foreman shall give the grievor a written reply as soon as possible but not later than three (3) days after such discussion. If the General Foreman's reply is not satisfactory to the grievor, the next step must be taken within three <3) days of the General Foreman's answer, but not thereafter.
The written grievance referred to above shall identify:	the facts giving rise to the grievance; the
section or sections of the Agreement claimed violated; the relief requested; and shall be signed by the employee and countersigned by his steward.
STEP NO. 2
A t this step the written grievance shall be presented to the Manager concerned within the aforesaid three (3) days of
18
receipt of the General Foreman's written reply, but not thereafter.
A meeting will be held between the Chairman of the Plant Committee together with the steward involved, and the Manager Concerned together with other representatives of management, within three (3) days of the presentation of the written grievance to the Manager concerned. The Manager concerned shall give his written reply to the Chairman of the Plant Committee within three (3) days of such meeting.
If such Manager's reply is not satisfactory to the Chairman of the Plant Committee the next step shall be taken within five (5) days after the delivery of such Manager's reply to the Chairman of the Plant Committee, but not thereafter.
STEP NO, 3
At this step, the Union shall, within the aforesaid five (5) days, notify the General Manager in writing of its desire to appeal the decision of the Manager concerned at step No. 2. Shortly thereafter, a meeting will take place between the Plant Committee (which may be accompanied by the International Representative of the Union) and the General
Manager and any other representatives of management. The
19
grievor shall be required to be present at the request of either party. The Company shall deliver its decision in writing to the Chairman of the Plant Committee within ten (10) working days of such meeting.
STEP NO. 4
In the event the grievance is not settled at Step No. 3, the party having carriage of the grievance shall request arbitration of the grievance by giving notice in writing to the other party within thirty-five (35) days from delivery of the decision at Step No. 3 to the Chairman of the Plant Grievance Committee, but not thereafter.
If a request far arbitration is not so given within such thirty-five (35) day period, the decision at Step 3 shall be final and binding upon both parties to this Agreement, and upon any employee involved. The notice to arbitrate shall contain the name and address of the moving party’s nominee to the Board, and shall also specify all of the outstanding issues of the written grievance to be dealt with by the Board and the remedy sought. The party giving such notice shall be bound by the same and shall be restricted at arbitration to the issues presented by the
notice.
20
The recipient of the notice shall within five (5) days advise the other party, in writing, of the name of its appointee to the arbitration board.
The two appointees so selected shall, within five (5) days of the appointment of the second of them, appoint a third person who shall be chairman, If the recipient of the notice fails to appoint an arbitrator, or if the two appointees fail to agree upon a chairman, within the time limited, the Minister of Labour for Ontario shall, if requested within the five (5) days from expiry of the date upon which the two appointees are to appoint a chairman (but not thereafter), forthwith appoint a qualified person to be chairman.
7.06	The arbitration board shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision which shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it. The decision of the majority shall be the decision of the arbitration board, but if there is no majority decision, the decision of the chairman shall govern.
7.07	The Board of Arbitration shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with provisions of this Agreement nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this
21
Agreement, nor to abjudicate any matter not specifically assigned to it by the notice to arbitrate in Step. No. 3 of Article 7,05 hereof.
7.08	Each party hereto shall bear its own costs of and incidental to any such arbitration proceedings. The fees and charges of the chairman of the board of arbitration shall be borne equally by the two parties hereto.
7.09	The time limits and other procedural requirements set out in this Article 7 are mandatory and not merely directory, and no matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not properly been carried through all specified previous steps of the grievance procedure within the times specified. The parties recognize that in some departments and on some shifts "immediate supervisor" and "General Foreman" shall be the same person, and the grievance shall be filed with such person after being discussed with him as a complaint, pursuant to the provisions hereof. The provisions of this clause shall not be considered to have been waived by the parties or either of them unless they expressly provide a waiver thereof in writing, signed by both parties.
22
7.10	A decision or settlement reached at any stage of
the grievance procedure shall be final and binding upon all parties hereto, including the complaining employee, and shall not be subject to reopening by any party except by agreement in writing. If the grievance is settled at any step of the grievance procedure, both the Company management and the Union representatives who pass on the same as
provided herein shall sign the settlement as endorsed upon
the written grievance, so that no question or argument may arise as to what the settlement was. Either party shall have the right to require the attendance of the grievor at any meeting held pursuant to Steps 1, 2, or 3 of the grievance procedure.
When an employee's grievance is settled by the parties or determined by the board of arbitration on the basis that the employee is entitled to be reimbursed for wages lost as a result of action on the part of the Company in violation of this Agreement, such reimbursement shall be retroactive to the date of the presentation of the grievance to the Company in writing. Such reimbursement shall be at the employee's regular straight time earnings for such hours as the employee would have worked for the Company if the
23
violation had not occurred, but there shall be subtracted therefrom any monies the employee received during such period and any Unemployment Insurance benefits received by the employee during such period.
7,11	Union Policy Grievance or Company Grievance
A Union policy grievance or a Company grievance may be submitted to the Company or the Union, as the case may be, in writing, within seven (7) days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based were known or should have been known by the grievor. A meeting between the Company and the Union shall be held within five (5) days of the presentation of the written grievance and shall take place within the framework of Step No. 3 of Article 7,05,
The Company or the Union, as the case may be, shall give its written decision within three (3) days of such meeting.
If the decision is unsatisfactory to the grieving party, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration within thirty-five (35) days of the delivery of such written decision and the arbitration sections of this Agreement shall be followed.
It is expressly understood that the provisions of this paragraph 7.11 may not be used by the Union to
24
institute a grievance directly affecting an employee or employees which such employee or employees could themselves institute, and the provisions of Article 7.05 hereof shall not thereby be bypassed.
7.12	(a) DISCHARGE CASES
A claim by a seniority employee that he has been discharged without just cause shall be treated as a grievance and shall commence at Step No. 3 of Article 7.05 provided a written grievance signed by the employee and his Department Steward or Bargaining Committeeman is presented to the General Manager within three (3) days after the discharge. The International Representative of the Union will be permitted to attend the meeting held pursuant thereto, with the General Manager. The Union will not question the discharge of any probationary employee nor shall such discharge be the subject of a grievance.
A seniority employee who is discharged while on the Company premises shall have the right to confer with his steward for up to fifteen (15) minutes, in a place designated by the Company, before leaving the Plant.
7.12	(b) Should the parties agree or should the grievor satisfy the arbitration board that a seniority employee has
25
been discharged without just cause, such employee shall be reinstated as an employee without loss of seniority and shall be compensated in accordance with the provisions of Article 7,10 hereof.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
8.01	An employee will be considered a probationary employee until he has been employed by the Company for sixty (60) calendar days within a twelve (12) consecutive month period. During his probationary period he will have no seniority rights but when such rights are acquired, seniority will be regarded as having started from the date sixty (60) days immediately prior to acquiring such seniority. The employee shall carry such seniority in his unit.
8.02	The Company will post seniority lists once every six (6) months and such list shall show the employee's seniority and the unit in which the employee holds such seniority. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, seniority shall be by unit and plant-wide. The Company
shall furnish the Union with a copy of the seniority list.
26
8.03	For the purpose of applying the seniority provisions of this Agreement, which seniority provisions shall be applied only to the extent expressly provided in this Agreement, the present units are as follows:
Unit No. 1 - Production operations including Shell
Making, Foaming and Injection Moulding. Unit No. 2 - Receiving, Shipping and Warehousing.
Unit No. 3 - Maintenance, Tooling and Projects.
Unit No. 4 - Lab, Process, Tool and Machine
Technicians, compounding and Quality.
New product lines or changes in existing product lines may require additions to or changes in the foregoing unit structure. The Company will notify the Union of any such additions or changes. Should the Union, after being so notified, wish to discuss any such additions or changes, the Company will meet with the Union and explain or otherwise discuss the additions or changes.
8.04	A seniority employee who is transferred to another unit by seniority on an indefinite lay-off (ie. lay-off for
a period longer than a temporary lay-off as defined herein), or on recall therefrom, shall lose seniority in his former unit (ie, in which he held unit seniority) after thirty (30)
27
days worked and attain seniority in the new unit, after thirty (30) days worked in the new unit. During such thirty day period he shall continue to accumulate seniority in his former unit and when he attains seniority in the new unit he shall be credited with the seniority which he had in his former unit. However, if such employee's former job re-opens within such thirty days in the new unit the employee shall return to his former job. An employee shall hold seniority in only one (1) unit at any one time.
A seniority employee who has held a job classification for a period of 30 days or longer, and who is reclassified due to a work shortage, to a lower rated job classification, shall have the right to return to the job from which he was displaced provided that such job reopens within a period of 60 days.
In the event that the original job does not become available within 60 days then the job will become subject to the job posting procedure as described in Article 8,08,
8.05	The selection of employees for supervisory
positions or for any position not subject to the conditions of this Agreement is not covered by this Agreement. A non-bargaining unit person with less than one (1) year of
28
j
service in a salaried position who is transferred to a position within the bargaining unit shall be credited with seniority equal to his full accumulated service with the Company excluding the time worked outside the bargaining unit. Upon such transfer into the bargaining unit, the employee shall exercise his seniority to bump the least senior employee in the last classification previously held, Should such job not be available the employee shall exercise his seniority under the provision of Article 8>07.
Employees with more than one (1) year of service i n a salaried position shall not be transferred back into the bargaining unit.
^.06	In filling permanent job vacancies (except those
\
in respect of positions excluded from the bargaining unit)
and in cases of decrease or increase of the working force, the following factors shall be considered.
a)	length of seniority;
b)	experience, efficiency and qualifications;
c)	physical fitness and reliability.
Where the qualifications in facts (b) and (c) are relatively equal in the judgement of the Company, factor (a)
shall govern.
29
Where educational requirements are specified they shall be interpreted to mean either actual academic qualification or proven and demonstrated ability to perform work requiring similar qualifications.
8.07	When there is to be a lay-off in a unit the junior
employees in the classification affected shall be subject to be laid-off provided the remaining employees are, in the judgement of the Company, of realtively equal skill, competency, efficiency and qualifications. The Company will furnish the Union with a list of those employees who are to be laid-off and will discuss the list with the Union prior to notifying the individual employees affected by the lay-off.
An employee so subject to lay-off will be assigned by the Company to work being perfarmed by another employee with less seniority in the plant, subject always to the provisions of Article 8.06 hereof.
a)	an employee in labour grade 3 and 5 will be placed in a job within his own classification and shift, or labour grade 99 on his own shift, provided such a job exists and is held by another employee with less seniority.
If no such job exists, then refer to (b) below. A
30
qualified production employee in labour grade 6 through 9 shall have the option of selecting either of the above that is held by an employee with less seniority, on his own shift, before referring to (b) below.
b)	the employee will be placed in a job within his own classification but on another shift, provided such job exists and is held by another employee with less seniority. If no such job exists, then,
c)	the employee will be placed in a lower-rated job, held by a less senior employee, which he formerly held for a period of at least thirty (30) days. Such assignments will be made whenever possible to provide the employee with the least wage loss practicable. If no job
exists,
d)	the employee will be placed in a General Factory Class
job, provided such a job exists, and is held by another employee with less seniority.
e)	an employee transferred to labour grade 99 under the provision of Article 8,06 and 8,07 will transfer at the step achieved in his prior classification, Within one year from date of transfer, the employee must
attain the skill level commensurate with the step
31
transferred to, or drop to the step that equates to the skill level achieved.
Employees who, due to bona fide family commitments, acceptable to the Company, are unable to accept assignment to a shift other than their current shift, may request assignment to a General Factory Class job on their current shift, provided such a job exists and is being performed by another employee with less seniority.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein, the employee shall not use his seniority to be assigned to a higher labour grade than his current labour grade.
Wherever used in this Agreement, the word "qualified" or the like, shall mean presently possessed of the accomplishments which enable the person to perform the work required in accordance with the Company's quality and production standards, so that the person performs such work after being given general information concerning it, but does not require a trial period or a training period.
In administering Article 8.06 and the foregoing paragraphs of Article 8.07 hereof, the following will apply: a) "promotion" shall be defined as a permanent transfer to a classification carrying a higher rate of pay than the
32
employee's rate or a classification which carries a higher range of rates than the range of rates in the employee's classification.
b)	Time spent on lay-off will not count towards qualifying for incremental wage increases.
c)	In all cases of temporary lay-off (ie. up to one hundred and sixty (160) full regular working hours) seniority need not be considered. No employee may be laid off under this provision for more than a total of one hundred and sixty (160) working hours ■i any calendar year. For the purposes of computing temporary lay-off hours no period less than two (2) full working hours shall be used and periods in excess of two (2) hours shall be credited to the nearest full working hour. Students and part-time temporary persons may be retained for one hundred and sixty (160) regular working hours while permanent employees are on temporary lay-off as provided above.
d)	In the event that a vacancy exists at the time of
reduction of force the Company shall have the right to assign an employee affected by such a reduction of
force to such vacancy, provided he is qualified to
33
perform the work in accordance with the Company's quality and production standards.
e)	In the case of a reduction in force involving a number of employees in one (1) week, employees affected may be laid off for a period of one <1) week without regard to seniority to allow time to make reassignments on the basis of the provisions of Articles 8.06 and 8.07 hereof.
f)	When the Company implements the provisions of paragraphs <c) or (e) of this Article 8.07 the Company will, upon request of the Plant Committee, advise the Plant Committee of the reasons therefore.
g)	In all cases of lay-off other than temporary lay-off as defined in this Agreement under Article 8.07 (c) or (e) the Company will give three (3) days notice to the employees affected of the impending lay-off.
8.08	JOB POSTING PROCEDURE
The Company agrees to advertise all permanent job vacancies save and except those incentive rated jobs in Labour Grades 3 and 5 for three (3) days, with the exception of Utility Operator in Labour Grade 5. All job postings
34
shall state openings by shift. During the posting period the Company may temporarily fill the job as it deems proper. The Company will consider applications and apply the provisions of Article 8.06 hereof. All employees interested in the job vacancy must make application within three (3) working days.
Such job posting shall apply in respect of the original vacancy and the next two (2) vacancies resulting from the filling of the original vacancy. If the bid of an employee for a particular job vacancy hereunder is accepted,
such employee shall be ineligible to bid under this Article
8.08 for any job vacancy for a period of at least six (6) calendar months from the date of such successful bid and related job transfer. An employee transferred under the provisions of this Article 8.08 who in the judgement of the Company is subsequently unable to meet the Company's standards of quality and production within the first thirty
(30) days of such transfer, will be transferred back to his/her former position without loss of seniority or bidding rights.
An employee transferred under the provisions of this Article 8.08 who during the first thirty (30) days
35
following such transfer makes request to return to his/her former position may do so. An employee electing to return to his/her former position under this provision shall forfeit any right under the job bidding procedure for six (6) months from the date of the bid closing.
The purpose of the job posting procedure is to provide employees with the opportunity to bid on jobs in a higher labour grade. In certain circumstances an employee may wish to bid on a job at the same or lower labour grade than the employee's existing job. In order to be eligible to bid on a job at the same or lower labour grade than the employee's current job, the employee must have held the current position for a period of not less than six <6) months .
The foregoing provision shall not apply to employees exercising their bidding rights under Article 8.08 for the first time, nor employees making a bid to transfer from a position to which they were appointed.
When new jobs are created or existing jobs are open the Company shall be able to fill such jobs for a period of thirty (30) days during which such jobs shall be posted. Employees working during the first thirty (30) days
36
shall not have such time taken into consideration for qualifications.
Permanent incentive rated job vacancies in Labour Grade 3 and 5 will be filled by appointing the senior employee in a lower grade job to the open position, with the exception of Utility Operator in Labour Grade 5, These appointments will be made from the current seniority lists with the exception of employees who have previously indicated that they do not wish to be considered for such appointment. An employee wishing to waive his rights to an appointment under the above shall sign a declaration to that end.
When an employee is successful in obtaining a higher rated job through the bidding provisions of Article 8.08, he shall be placed in the job within forty-five (45) days of being awarded the position. In the event that the employee is not placed in the new job within the thirty (30) day period, he shall be paid at the rate for the new job from the thirty-first (3ist> day until such time as the transfer is effective provided that the new job is still
available.
37
8.09	LOSS OF SENIORITY
An employee shall lose all seniority rights and service rights if:
a)	he quits his employment;
b)	he is discharged for just cause not reversed through the grievance procedure;
c)	an employee with less than four (4> years seniority is
laid off €or a period in excess of one (1) year; an
employee with four (4) years or more of seniority is
/
layed off for a period in excess of two (2) years.
d)	a person on lay-off fails to return to work within five (5) working days after the Company's notice of recall is sent by registered mail or telegram to the last address of the person shown on Personnel Office records or, if the person within three (3) working days after such notice of recall is so sent fails to notify the Personnel Office of his intention to return to work.
The foregoing provision may be waived by the Personnel Manager in writing if the person furnishes reasons satisfactory to the Personnel Manager for such failure on his part. In such cases cf waiver, the
person will not be permitted to displace another
employee with less seniority who has been employed in the meantime, but will be rehired with seniority intact when employment for which he is qualified and for which he has the necessary seniority is available.
It shall be the duty of the employee or laid-off person to notify the Company office promptly, in writing, of any change of address or telephone number.
If an employee or laid off person should fail to do this, the Company will not be responsible for the failure of a notice to reach him and any notice sent by the Company by registered mail to the address which appears on the Company’s personnel records, or
telephoned to the telephone number which appears on the
Company’s records shall be conclusively deemed to have been received by the employee or laid off person;
e)	an employee fails to return to work promptly after the expiration of any leave granted to him unless he is excused by the Personnel Manager.
8.10	PREFERENTIAL SENIORITY
The executive officers of the Union, not to exceed
seven (7), will be retained by the Company in the event of a
39
lay-off affecting their unit, so long as there is work in their respective units which they are qualified to perform, notwithstanding their position on the seniority list.
8.11	STUDENTS
Students accepted as temporary employees by the Company shall not accumulate service for seniority purposes.
When a student applies for temporary work he shall be required to file a student application. Should he subsequently wish to apply for full-time permanent employment he will be required to file a regular application. In the event that the student is accepted as a permanent employee he shall begin to accumulate seniority from the date of such acceptance.
In no case shall a student employee be permitted to work for a period in excess of one hundred and twenty (120) days. This condition shall not apply to students working on a recognized co-op program.
ARTICLE 9 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
40
9.01	All leaves of absence as referred to in this Agreement shall be without pay or any other form of compensation.
9.02	The Company may, in its own discretion, grant leave of absence, without pay, to any employee for
' legitimate personal reasons, and any person who is absent with such permission shall continue to accumulate seniority, for a period not to exceed three (3) months, during such absence.
9.03	(a) The Company will grant leave of absence to not more than four (4) employees in good standing at the same time for legitimate Union business. This leave of absence shall not exceed ten (10) working days each year per employee, and in any event not to exceed a total of forty (40) working days per year in respect of all such employees.
NO	.	.
y in addition to this foregoing, the Company will grant an
additional twenty (20) days per year leave of absence to the President of the Local Union, and twelve (12) additional days per year leave for safety related Union business.
9.03	(b) An employee with seniority who is elected or selected as a full-time officer or representative of Local 889, the U.R.C.L.P. - W.A. or the International Union, upon
41
request in writing to the Company will be granted a leave of absence for whatever time is necessary. Should he request reinstatement within thirty (30) days after the termination of the Union position, he will be reinstated in his former job. If his former job has been eliminated, he will be offered a similar job. Seniority will accumulate during
such absence,
9.04	Any seniority female employee will, in case of
pregnancy, certified by a qualified physician, be granted a leave of absence subject to the following conditions:
a)	The employee involved must notify the Company's Personnel Office of her condition at least five (5) months prior to the expected date of delivery.
b)	The employee must furnish the company with a certificate from her physician stating she is no longer capable of performing her normal duties.
c)	Seniority will accumulate during the period of such leave.
d)	Before returning to work the employee must provide the Company with a physician's certificate stating she is fit to perform her normal duties.
If the employee fails to report for work promptly after
42
the expiration of the leave, she shall be considered as having voluntarily quit.
9.05	SICK LEAVE
Any employee who, because of illness or injury requiring an absence from his job for more than two (2) working days, shall, upon furnishing satisfactory evidence to the Company of such illness or injury, be granted a sick leave for the duration of the period of his disability due to such illness or injury, except that at the end of twelve (12) months in the case of an employee with less than four (4) years' seniority, or twenty-four (24) months in the case of an employee with four (4) years or more seniority, of continuous absence because of such illness or injury the employee's employment and seniority shall be terminated.
The employee shall furnish supplementary medical evidence of disability, from time to time, as required by the Company. Failure to furnish such evidence of disability will result in the termination of the employee's employment and seniority. Before any employee on sick leave may return to work he must present a doctor's certificate stating that he has fully recovered both physically and mentally and is able to return to his regular job classification and perform such
43
job in accordance with the Company's quality and production standards. The Company reserves the right to have any employee examined by a Company physician in connection with a sick leave.
The Company reserves the right to refuse or terminate a leave of absence under this provision if the record of the employee indicates an excessive amount of time off or recurring or repetitive time off. The determination as to what constitutes excessive, recurring or repetitive time off will be negotiated and mutually agreed upon between the Union and the Company.
For Worker's Compensation cases the maximum allowable leave of absence for seniority employees shall be forty-eight <48) months.
9.06	Employees returning from authorized leave of
absence within a period of six (6) weeks from the date of the beginning of the leave of absence will be returned to the same job or a comparable job with a comparable rate of pay providing such a comparable job exists for which the
employee is qualified.
44
An employee returning from sick leave within fifteen (15) weeks from commencement of such sick leave will
be returned to his former job providing such job exists.
An employee returning to work under the provisions of this Article may be placed back in the work force under the provisions of Article 8.07 if his former job does not exist.
An employee returning from authorized leave of absence longer than six (6) weeks or from sick leave longer than fifteen (15) weeks will be returned to his former job provided such job still exists. If such job does not exist he will be assigned a comparable job in accordance with his seniority and the provisions of Article 3,07 hereof.
9.07	Application for leave of absence shall be made in writing to the employee's immediate supervisor and it will then be referred for final approval in accordance with Company policy; however, no leave will be granted for a period greater than an employee’s accumulated seniority and in no case, other than as specifically set out in Article 9.05 hereof, in excess of one (1) year.
9.08	If an employee overstays his leave of absence, he
is presumed to have severed employment with the Company
45
unless he can give an explanation satisfactory to the Company for his inability to return to work on the expiry date of his leave of absence.
9.09	JURY DUTY
Each seniority employee who is summoned to and reports for jury duty, or is subpoenaed as a Crown witness,
as prescribed by applicable law (subject to the eligibility
requirements set out below), shall be paid by the Company the difference between the employee's regular base rate exclusive of premiums for the number of hours up to eight (8) that he otherwise would have been scheduled to work and the daily jury duty or witness fee paid by the Court (not including travelling allowance or reimbursement for expenses). The Company's obligation to pay an employee for jury duty or a Crown witness under this section is limited to a maximum of sixty (60) days in an calendar year, and in order to receive payment under this section, an employee must meet all of the following eligibility requirements:
a)	the employee shall have given twenty-four (24) hours notice to the Company that he has been summoned for jury duty or subpoenaed as a Crown witness;
b)	the employee shall furnish satisfactory evidence to the
46
Personnel Manager that he reported for and performed jury duty or appeared as a Crown witness on the days for which he claims payment and shall furnish acceptable proof of the amount of jury pay or witness fees received by him:
c)	the employee would otherwise have been scheduled to work for the Company on the day or days for which he claims payment;
d)	when an employee is subpoenaed by the Company to
testify as a witness in a grievance arbitration case
the Company will reimburse the employee for lost wages at his straight time hourly rate of pay.
9.10	BEREAVEMENT
When death occurs in a seniority employee's immediate family (ie. current spouse, including common-law spouse, parent, parent of current spouse, step-parent, child, stepchild, brother, step-brother, sister,
stepsister, grandparent, spouse's grandparent or grandchild
of the employee, son-in-law or daughter-in-law) the employee, on request, will be excused for a period not to exceed three (3) working days, or such fewer days as the
employee may be absent, immediately following the date of
47
death and ending on the day of the funeral providing he attends the funeral. The employee shall not be entitled to receive any pay for any day upon which he would not otherwise have been scheduled to work for the Company. Payment will be based upon the employee's straight time day work hourly rate exclusive of any premiums. When death occurs to an employee's sister-in-law or brother-in-law, the employee, on request, will be excused for the day of the funeral provided he attends the funeral. When death occurs in an employee's immediate family and the employee, for reasons of distance or personal hardship, is unable to attend the funeral, he shall be allowed a one (1) day leave for personal grief immediately following the date of death. The employee shall not be entitled to receive any pay for any day upon which he would not otherwise be scheduled to work for the Company. Payment will be based upon the employee's straight time day work hourly rate exclusive of any premiums.
9,11	A member of the Bargaining Committee who is
temporarily assigned by the Company to another operation because of his frequent absence in connection with Bargaining Committee activities, will not undergo a reduction
48
in his hourly rate because of such assignment. When his frequent absence is no longer required, he will be reinstated to his regular job.
ARTICLE 10 - OVERTIME
10.01	For the purpose of computing overtime and premium
pay, the regular work day is eight (8) hours and the regular work week is forty (40) hours, unless otherwise scheduled.
The work week shall be a calendar week beginning at 12:01 a .in. Monday morning, except that in the case of shifts beginning on Sunday evening the work week shall begin at the starting hour of the shift on Sunday evening. A work day shall consist of the twenty-four (24) hours from midnight to midnight.
The provisions of this Article 10 are for the purpose of computing overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee or limitation of hours of work per day or per week nor as a guarantee of working schedules.
An employee whose scheduled shift starts on or after 5:00 a.m. but before 12:30 p.m. shall be deemed to be working on the first (day) shift: an employee whose scheduled shift starts on or after 12:30 p.m. but before
49
9:00 p.m. shall be deemed to be working on the second (afternoon) shift; and an employee whose scheduled shift starts on or after 9:00 p.m. but before 5:00 a.m. shall be deemed to be working on the third (midnight) shift.
When a third shift is scheduled, such third shift shall normally be of eight (8) hours' duration.
The Company will give the Union and the employees affected as much notice as reasonably possible of any change in normal shift schedules.
Employees working on the second (afternoon) shift shall not be scheduled to work overtime on weekends with a starting time less than eight (8) hours following the completion of their regular shift.
10.0	2 In determining the hours worked by the employee for the purpose of entitlement to overtime pay, hours not worked because of a paid holiday, bereavement leave, jury duty, lay-off, leave of absence necessitated by an unavoidable problem provided written leave is requested and secured not later than the day prior to the date of the leave, shall be counted as if worked. When the Company requires that additional work be performed per day or per
50
week, such additional work shall be compensated for at the rates set forth below:
a)	Time and one-half (1 1/21 will be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) straight time hours in any one (1) day, provided, however, that this rule will not apply when an employee is required to work more than eight (8) hours in the day or forty (40) hours in
the week because of:
i)	a transfer resulting from the lay-off and recall procedure or permanent transfer procedure:
ii)	a change in shift or exchange of shifts requested by the employee and consented to by the foreman;
iii)	the granting of a	request	for transfer.
b)	Time	and one-half (1 1/21 will	be paid	for all time
worked in excess of forty (40) straight time hours worked in any one (1) work week, or, for work performed upon Saturday.
c)	Employees on the third	shift (midnight	shift! shall	be
paid	time and one-half	(1 1/2)	for all	hours worked	in
excess of eight (8) straight time hours in any one (1)
work day and shall be paid time and one-half (1 1/2)
for hours worked on Saturday.
51
d)	Time and one-half (1 1/2) shall be paid for all time
worked on the following holidays:	New Year's Day, Good
Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday,
Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Christmas Eve and Boxing Day. There shall be four (4) additional designated paid holidays. Whenever any of the above enumerated holidays occur on a Saturday or Sunday, the holiday will be observed on the Monday after such holiday, excepting any holiday that falls within a plant shutdown. Whenever any of the above enumerated holidays occur within the period of an employee's vacation, he shall substitute the first working day following the vacation period for the holiday, excepting when such holiday falls within a plant shutdown.
e)	Double (2) time will be paid for all time worked on /» Sunday.
10.03	REPORTING PAY
An employee who properly reports for work at the beginning of his regular shift, unless he has been notified in advance not to report, will receive at least four (4) hours' work or shall be paid for four (4) hours at his
52
regular straight time earnings, except in cases of labour disputes, machinery, equipment, power or other utility disputes, machinery, equipment, power or other utility breakdowns, fire, flood or any other causes, without limitation, beyond the control of the Company. In cases where an employee properly reports for his regular shift and the equipment or machinery breakdowns prevent him from completing at least two (2) hours of work the employee shall be given two (2) hours of alternate work or shall be paid sufficient to bring his earnings for the day to the equivalent of two (2) hours at his regular straight time rate. Where an employee reports for work on his regular shift and is sent home with instructions to report on a later shift, he shall be paid for two (2) hours subject to the same exceptions and conditions as set forth in this section. An employee, other than an employee who reports
for work on his regular shift and is sent home with
instructions to report on a later shift, who does not accept available work when offered shall not be entitled to payment for reporting. When an employee has not been working because of illnesss, leave of absence or any other cause, it
shall be his responsibility to arrange with the Company for
53
his return to work at least one <1> but not more than two (2) regular working days prior to the time of his intended return. It is the employee's duty to keep the Personnel Office informed of his correct address and telephone number, and the Company will not be liable for any payment unless such arrangements have been made.
10.03	(a) STAND-BY PAY
An employee who is required by the Company to hold himself ready and available to be called in to perform work on a Saturday, Sunday or designated holiday will be paid four (4) hours' pay at his straight time rate of pay exclusive of premiums for each twenty-four (24) hour period he is required to stand-by subject to the following:
a)	Stand-by pay shall be paid in addition to any pay that the employee may be entitled to under the provisions of Article 10.04 hereof.
b)	Stand-by duty shall not be considered to be time worked.
10.04	An employee called in to do emergency work will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours' pay for such work at his regular rate; however, when an employee, after leaving the plant at the completion of his shift is notified to report
54
for work four (4) hours or less prior to his regular starting time and he is expected to work through and complete his regular shift, he will be paid only for the hours worked in excess of eight (8) on an overtime basis.
10.05	When overtime is scheduled to be performed by employees in a unit the Company will endeavour as far as practicable to equitably allocate the overtime among qualified employees of the unit who presently and normally perform the major or dominant portion of the work required. However, the Company shall not be required to interrupt production lines or group operations. An employee on an individual operation or assignment will not be displaced for overtime occurring at the end of a regular shift. Employees who are absent from work for any reason shall be considered not available for the allocation of overtime, and shall not be entitled to be called in.
10.06	It is not the intention of the parties to this Agreement that the Company shall be held to an obligation of equal allocation of overtime but is only intended to be a general rule for the guidance of the Company in allocating overtime. An employee who is justifiably aggrieved as a result of the Company’s failure to follow this general rule
55
shall not be entitled to money payment for overtime which has not been allocated to him in the past but shall be entitled to be allocated future overtime to restore him to a relatively equitable position with those other qualified employees in the department who presently and normally perform the operation upon which the aggrieved employee is involved.
10.07	Employees working on the second (afternoon) shift
shall receive forty-five cents (.45) per hour as a shift bonus, and employees working on the third (midnight) shift shall receive forty-five cents (.45) per hour as a shift bonus.
If an employee is working a regular shift he shall be paid the shift bonus, if any, of the shift to which he is assigned for all hours worked even though the hours worked extended into another shift.
10.08	(a) Single shift or two-shift operations which are scheduled for eight (8) hours or more shall have two (2) ten minute breaks as well as a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch
period.
56
10.08	(b) For shifts scheduled on an eight (8> hour continuous operation, there shall be two (2) ten minute breaks as well as a twenty minute paid lunch period.
10.08	(c> When the company requires more than two <2) consecutive hours of work immediately following the completion of a full eight (8) hour shift of work, an employee shall be entitled to a rest period of ten (10) minutes to be taken at the beginning of the overtime hours.
10.08	(d) An employee who during his regular shift is requested to work four (4) or more hours of overtime immediately following his reglar shift shall receive a meal allowance of five dollars ($5.00)
10.09	In instances where an employee is notified prior to his/her normal starting time that the shift will be delayed and is requested to remain available for work later in the day and the shift is subsequently cancelled, the employee shall receive two (2) hours pay at his/her regular
straight time rate.
57
ARTICLE 11 - VACATIONS
11.01	Wherever the term "vacation year" is used in this Agreement it shall mean the year from one July 1st to the following June 30th.
11.02	The employee shall be entitled to an annual vacation in accordance with the following schedule on the basis of his service tie. seniority) at June 30th in each year:
-Less than one (1) year of service (seniority) - four percent (4%) - one (1) day vacation, to a maximum of nine (9) days, for each month of service in excess of three (3) months;
-One (1) year of service (seniority) but less than five (5) years as at June 30th - two (2) weeks;
-Five (5) years or more of service
(seniority^as,at
June
s
30th - three (3) weeks;
-Twelve (12) years or more of service (seniority) as at June
K
30th - four (4) weeks.	r A /U
1
-Twenty (20) or more years of service (seniority) as at June
y s
3 0th - five (5) weeks.	s%yj£?
11.03	Pay for the vacation to which the employee is
entitled hereunder will be two percent (2%) of wages earned
in the vacation year for each week of vacation entitlement.
"Wages earned" as used in this Article 11.03 shall include vacation pay received by the employee during the vacation
year .
ARTICLE 12 - DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
12.01	Employees shall be paid, as provided hereinafter,
for New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Christmas Eve, and Boxing Day, providing they meet all of the following eligibility rules unless otherwise provided herein :
a)	The employee has seniority as of the date of the holiday; and
b)	The employee must have worked the last full scheduled work day prior to and the first full scheduled work day
after the holiday.
The Company may, in its discretion, excuse an employee who provides a reason satisfactory to the Company for his failing to comply with the provisions of this Article 12.01 (b).
c)	An employee an approved leave of absence or lay-off who
59
would otherwise qualify for holiday pay hereunder, shall receive holiday pay only if he has worked at least one (1) scheduled work day in the five (5) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday and one (1) scheduled work day in the five (5) calendar days immediately following the holiday.
12.02	There shall be four (4) additional designated paid holidays, making a total of fourteen (14)<„to be taken at a time designated by the Company after discussion with the Union. It is understood that the additional holidays will be used first in conjunction with the Christmas Shutdown period December 24th to January 1st. The eligibility rules set out in Article 12.01 hereof shall also apply to the eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth designated paid holidays. A schedule of holidays is contained in Appendix (b ) .
12.03	An employee who qualifies under the provisions set forth in Article 12.01 herof shall receive pay for his normal number of daily hours not exceeding eight (8) for each of the holidays specified in Articles 12.01 and 12.02 hereof, computed at his straight time base hourly rate of
pay exclusive of any premiums.
60
12.04	When a holiday falls during a .seniority employee's vacation such holiday shall tv observed on the first Monday following completion of the employee's vacation.
12.05	Employees who agree to work on a holiday and who then fail to report for and perform such work, without a reason acceptable to the Company, shall not receive holiday pay under this Section.
ARTICLE 13 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
13.01	The Ontario Health and Safety Act as it pertains to the activities of the Company shall be considered as a minimum standard for conditions in the plant.
13.02	An employee who is injured during working hours while properly performing his duties of employment and who is sent home from work by the Company or by a physician, shall be paid for the time lost on the day he was injured at his regular straight time rate of pay for the unexpired portion of his scheduled work day.
13.03	No employee shall be assigned to a job that has
previously been refused by another employee on health and
61
safety grounds until he/she has been thoroughly informed of the reasons.
13.04	For active seniority employees who are eligible,
and "eligible" shall mean:
i)	single employees;
ii)	employees who are married or have dependents and whose spouse is not receiving similar benefits at his or her place of employment, the following shall apply:
The Company agrees to obtain insurance to provide the following benefits:
a) A non-corapensible Sickness and Accident Weekly
Indemnity Plan to provide a benefit of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the employee's basic wage for a fifteen (15) week period commencing upon the first day of accident or hospitalization due to illness or the fifth working day of sickness to a maximum amount in accordance with the Unemployment Insurance Commission maximum period.
All employees who have completed more than four (4) years of continuous service with the Company will be provided with the aforementioned benefits for up to twenty-six (26) weeks commencing upon the first day of
62
accident or hospitalization due to illness or the fifth working day of sickness to a maximum amount in accordance with the Unemployment Insurance Commsss ion maximum. Effective January 1, 1995, the aforesaid 4 years eligibility will be reduced to three (3) years. The Company shall be entitled to retain one hundred percent (100%)of U.I.C. premium savings.
Life Insurance and A.D. & D. - Term InsurAtrtje -Effective July 1, 1992 - $22,000.	d 1 ftit
-Effective January 1, 1994 - $23,000.
-Effective January 1, 1995 - $24,000.
Major Plan with deductible $25.00 - no co-insurance. Dental Plan - the Company will provide a dental care plan. Details of the Pianyafe covered in the Group Insurance booklet.
|e) The Company will provide a pay direct Prescription Drug
\ Plan with a $2.00 per prescription fee. x
13.05(a) Effective July 1, 1992, for seniority/ employees,
/
the Company agrees to pay eighty dollars (580,00) toward the
cost of one (1) pair of safety boots per calendar year.
/
This benefit increases to ninety dollars ($90,00) effective January 1, 19 9 4.
63
(b) The Company will subsidize protective workwear, in the form of coveralls or shop coats, for eligible employees. Eligible employees will be those who normally perform the jobs of general maintenance, tooling maintenance and project maintenance, lab, process, tool and machine technicians, compounding, quality and quality inspection.
The amount of subsidy will be the cost of one garment per calendar year up to a maximum of $50.00. Reimbursement for the cost of the garment will be subject to the employee furnishing the Company with proof of purchase. 13.06(a) The Company will pay the cost of A.O.C.O. prescription safety glasses at intervals of not less than twenty-four (24) months. The cost will be for lenses and frames only which comply to C.S.A. Industrial Standards, purchased through the Company from A.0,0.0.
(b) Family Eye Care
Effective July 1, 1992, the Company will provide a Family Eye Care Plan providing a benefit of $200 once during a two year period. This includes prescription eye wear and prescription contact: lenses.
13.07	Such benefits and plans are necessarily qualified
in their entirety by reference to the underlying policies or
64
contracts of insurance. The terms of any contract issued in respect hereof by an insurance agency or governmental agency shall be controlling in all matters pertaining to qualifications of employees for benefits thereunder and in all matters pertaining to the existence and extent of benefits and conditions.
13.08	No grievance may be processed in support of a claim or dispute with respect to the aforesaid plan, and the decision of the insurer or governmental agency involved will be final and binding upon the parties hereto and upon any employee affected thereby. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the employee or the Union from taking the matter up with the insurance company or governmental agency involved.
13.09	The Company agrees to pay employees up to two (2) hours at their straight time earnings rate for time taken to attend a medical examination required by the Company. This provision shall apply to seniority employees only.
13.10	The Company will ensure that any employee required to work alone in the plant or large area of the plant shall be protected by a patrol or check by supervisory or security
personnel on at least an hourly basis.
65
13.11	in the event of a lay-off or plant closure, other
than as a result of a strike or lock-out, the company shall provide coverage under the benefit programs outlined in this Article 13 for a period of ninety (90) days following the lay-off or plant closure. The foregoing provision shall apply to a 11 employees with three (3) or more years of seniority at the date of lay-off or plant closure.
ARTICLE 14 - GENERAL
14.01 The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted i n this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or natter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the Company and the Union, for the life of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain colectively with respect to any subject or matter even though such subject or
66
matter may not have been within the knowledge or comtemplation of either or both of the parties at the time
that they negotiated or signed this Agreement.
14.02	BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company will provide a bulletin board for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activity and Union educational material. All such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the Union and submitted to the Manager or his authorized representative for approval before being posted. With the exception of notices limited strictly to time, place and speaker, there shall be no posting of political matter. Furthermore, there shall be no posting of matter adverse to the Company or its management.
14.03	If any provision of this Agreement is in conflict with any existing or future provincial or federal law, such provision shall become inoperative, but the validity of the remainder of this agreement shall not thereby be impaired and shall remain in full force and effect.
14.04	NO DISCRIMINATION
The Company and the Union agree that they will not discriminate against, restrain or influence any employee
67
solely because of race, religious affiliation or national origin,
/
14.05	The Company agrees to maintain the standards of safety, health, sanitation and work conditions in the Plant required by law.
14.06	When the Company makes rules and regulations governing the operation of the Plant and posts same on the bulletin boards, violation of any of such rules and regulations by an employee will result in disciplinary action up to and including discharge. The Company will give the Union notice of any major changes in the rules and regulations.
14.07	SAFETY COMMITTEE
The Company and the Union agree to establish a Safety Committee comprised c£ eight (8) people, four (4) from the Company and four (4) from the Union. It shall be the duty of this Committee to meet once a month or oftener if necessary to discuss the safety of the plant. Attendance at the monthly meetings will be limited to three 13) representatives from each party on a rotating basis. The Union nay appoint two (2) of its representatives as regular attendees with the remainder rotating and the Company may
68
appoint members in a similar manner. Meetings of the Safety Committee will be chaired on alternate months by the Safety Manager and the Union Safety Chairperson. The Safety Committee will also make a safety inspection tour of the each month.
PENSION PLAN
The Pension Plan entitled "Davidson Instrument Panel Division, Textron, Hourly-Rated Employees' Pension Plan, Port Hope, Ontario", shall remain in effect throughout the life of this Agreement.
The Company will provide for credited service^prior to July 1, 1992, to have pension benefits of eighteen ollars ($18.00) per month/per year service. c> Effective January 1, 1994, the pension benefit will
'l$i
J increase to nineteen dollars (-$4$.. 00) per month/per •\\i year service.
V yml
d) /^Effective January 1, 1995, the pension benefit will \k\tincrease to nineteen dollars and fifty cents (§19.50) per month/per year service.
14.09	The Company's Trades Training Program shall remain
effective during the life of this Agreement.
69
The Company and the Union have agreed to mutually work toward continued educational development programs which will enhance employees development personally and professionally.
14.10	EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
The parties to this Agreement recognize that employee involvement at all levels of the organization is critical to the long term welfare of the Company. While employee involvement will be encouraged it shall in no way affect the Collective Agreement and/or grievance procedure contained herein.
14.11	The Company agrees that the Pension Plan, the Health Insurance Program and the letters of understanding referenced in this Agreement shall form part of this Agreement.
14.12	Skilled Trades employees will be paid one hundred ($100) dollars for tool allowance. Effective January 1, 1994, this allowance will increase to one hundred and fifty ($150) dollars. Payment to be made on February 01 (1st) of each year.
Skilled trades shall mean:
1) Maintenance Mechanic	5) Apprentices
70
2)	Maintenance Electrician
3)	Maintenance Fitter & Welder
4)	Industrial Instrument Electricians
ARTICLE 15 - WAGES
6)	Mold Repair
7)	Slush Tool Repair
(oil & hot air)
8)	Machinists
15.01	The wage rates set forth in Schedule "A" hereto
shall represent the minimum rates to be in effect during the life of this Agreement.
15.02	The parties agree that the document entitled "Wage Payment - Basic Policy" will serve as a basis of administration of the Incentive Program.
15.03	In the event a grievance arises out of a new or changed incentive standard, it shall be subject to the following grievance procedures:
1) When Management establishes a new standard or changes an existing standard on a job, the Union, if it does not agree with such standard after a period of not less than thirty (30) days nor more than forty-five (45) days after such new standard or change is put into effect, may, within the foregoing period file written
71
grievance. A meeting will be held between the Company and the Union within five (5) days of receipt of such written grievance, The Company will give its written decision within three (3) days of such meeting.
2) If the Company's decision is not satisfactory to the
Union, the Union shall/ within five (5) days of receipt of the Company's decision, but not thereafter, file a request in writing that a joint study be made by a representative selected by the Company and an Industrial Engineer representative of the Union. The representative of the Company and the Union will jointly study the job and agree to a resolution of the grievance in writing. Each party shall bear the cost and expenses of the representative which it appoints.
15.04	SENIORITY BONUS
Employees shall be paid an additional five cents ^
I
I
(.05) per hour for each five years of seniority.
72
ARTICLE 16 ~ DURATION
16.01	This Agreement shall become effective on the 1st
day of July, 1992, and shall remain in full force and effect until the 31st day of December, 1995.
December, 1995.
DATED AT PORT HOPE, ONTARIO THIS	day of
1992.
DAVIDSON INSTRUMENT PANEL DIVISION, TEXTRON
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFT-CIO-CLC AND ITS
PAY RATES AND LABOUR GRADES
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 1992
LABOUR
GRADE
Step Step	Step	Step	Step
1	2	3	4	5
(Hire) (90 days) (180 days) (270 days) (Merit)
3
5
6
7
8 9
11
12
15
17
19
20 21
F9.38 9.97 10.24
10 .so
10.78
11.06
11.57
11.86
12.72
13.31
13.93
14.23
14.55
9.72
10.31
10.63
10.88
11.17
11.47
12.03
12.36
13.28
13.94
14.56
14.88
15.19
10.06
10.69
10.98
11.25
11.56
11.87
12.50
12.85
13.85
14.55 15.19
15.55 15.89
10.40	10.72
11.02
11.36
11.64
14.40
15.12
15.84
16.24
16.58
11.44.
11.80
12.12
11.98	,12.55
12.30	12.85
12.98	13.62
13,37	14.02
15.19
15.84
16.64
17.04
17.40
.0469 . 0499 .0512 .0525 .0539 .0553
99
(Hire) (180 days) (270 days) (360 days) 12.37	12.53	12.70	12.88
SKILLED TRADE PAY RATES
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 1992
LABOUR
GRADE
21
20
19
17
15
Step Step Step	Step Step
123	45	RETENTION
(Hire) <90 days) (180 days) (270 days) (Merit) BONUS
14.55 15.19 15.89 14.23 14.88 15.55 13.93 14.56 15.19
13.31	13.94 14.55 12.72 13.28 13.85
16.58 17,40 3.50 16.24 17,04 3.00 15.84 16.64 2.75 15.12 15.84 1.00 14.40 15.19 1.00
SKILLED TRADES RETENTION BONUS
For the purpose of overtime, vacations, holidays, group insurances, and other effected monetary benefits, the skilled trades retention bonus
is deemed to be rolled into the base rate.
LABOUR
grade
3
5
6
7
8 9
11
12
15
17
19
20
21
99
PAY RATES AND LABQCR GRADES
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1994
Step
1
(Hire)
10.32
10.60
10.8>7
11.16
11.45
11.97
12.28
13.17
13,78
14.42
14.73
15.06
step
2
(90 dava) 10,06 10.67 11.00 11.26 11.56 11.87 12.45 12.79 13.74 14.43 15.07 15.40 15.72
Step
3
(180 days) 10.41 11.06 11.36 11.64 11.96
12.29 12.94
13.30 14.33 15.06 15.72 16.09 16.45
Step
4
(270 dava)
10.76 11.41
11.76 12.05 12.40 12.73 13.43 13.84 14.90 15.65 16.39 16.81 17.16
Step
5
(Merit) 11.10 11.a4 12.21 12.54 12.99 13.30 14.10 14.51 15.72 16.39 17.22 17.64 18.01
.0486
.0516
.053
.054
.055
.057
(Hire) (180 days) (270 days) ( 360 days)
SKILLED TRADE PAY RATES
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1994
LABOUR
GRADE
21
20
19
17
15
Step	Step	Step
12	3
(Hire) (90 davs) (180 days)
15.06	15.72	16.45
14.73	15.40	16.09
14.42	15.07	15.72
13.78	14.43	15.06
13.17	13.74	14.33
Step	Step
4	5	RETENTION
(270 dava > (Merit) BONUS
17.16	18.01	3.50
16.81	17.64	3.00
16.39	17.22	2.75
15.65	16.39	1.00
14.90	15.72	1.00
SKILLED TRADES RETENTION BONUS
For the purpose of overtime, vacations, holidays, group insurances, and other effected monetary benefits, the skilled trades retention bonus is deemed to be rolled into the base rate.
\
ABC
RAT
3
5
6
7
8
9
11
12
15
17
19
20
21
99
PAY RATES AND LABOUR GRADES
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1995
Step Step	Step	Step
12	3	4
_______(Hire) (90 days)
10.00	10.36
10.63	10.99
10.92	11.33
11.20	11.60
11.49	11.91
11.79	12.23
12.33	12.82
12.65	13.17
13.57	14.15
14.19	14.86
14.85	15.52
15.17	15.86
15.51	16,19
(Hire) (180 days)
13.18	13.36
(180 days) (270 days) 10.72	11.08
11.39	11.75
11.70	12,11
11.99	12.41
12.32	12.77
12.66	13.11
13.33	13.83
13.70	14.26
14.76	15.35
15.51	16.12
16.19	16.88
16.57	17.31
16.94	17.67
(270 days) (360 days) 13.53	13.73
Step
5
(Merit)
11.43 yi<
12.20 .
. f >
12.58	-
12.92 13.38 13.70 14.52 14.95 16.19 16.88 17.74 18.17 18.55
SKILLED TRADE PAY RATES EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1995
LABOUR
GRADE
21
20
19
17
15
Step Step Step	Step
12	3	4
(Hire^ (90 days) (160 days) (270 days)
19.01
18.17
17.60
15.19
14.57
19.69
18.86
18.27
15.86
15.15
20.44
19.57
18.94
16.51
15.76
21.17
20.31
19.63
17.12
16.35
Step
5
(Merit)
22.05
21.17
20.49
17.88
17.19
Nsw Star's Day Designated Holiday Qxd Friday Victoria cay Canada Day Civic Haliday Labour day Thanksgiving Day
Halida
Christsas Be Christras Gay Boeing Day Designated Holiday Designated Holiday
Ally 03 - Fri. Aug. 03 - Non. Sept. 07 - Man. Oct. 12 - Itn. N3V. 27 - Fti. Dec. 24 - Huts, Dec, 25 - fti. Dec. 28 - Itn. Dec. 29 - 'Res. Dec. 30 - Wad.
1993
Jan. 01 - Fti. Bab. 15 - Mon, Apr. 09 - Fti, Hay 24 - Itn.
July 02 - Fri. Aug. 02 - Nan. Sept. 06 - Nan.
Oct. 11 - Han. Nav. 26 - Fri. Dec. 24 - Fti. Dec. 27 - Han. Dec. 28 - TUes. tea. 29-Wad. Dec. 30 - Hurs.
1994
Jan. 03 - Man. E<ab. 21 - Han. Apr. 01 - Fri. tty 23-Nan. Ady 01 - Fti. Aug. 01 - rtn. Sept. 05-Han. Oct. 10 - Wtn. Ntor. 25 - Fti. Dec. 26-Han. Dec. 27 - 7Ub6. Dec. 28 - Vfcd. Dec. 29 - Huts. Dec. 30 - Fri.
1995
Jan. 02 - Nan. Flab. 20-Han. Apr. 14 - Fti. May 22 -Man. June 30 - Fti.
JUg. 07 -Sept. 04 Oct. 09 -Nxr. 24-Dec. 27 -Dec. 25 -Dec. 26-Dac. 28 -Dec. 29 —
Nan.
- itn. Han. Fti. Had. Nan. lues. Hues. Fti.
Davidson Instrument Panel
TEXTRON
Davidson Instrument Panel Subsidiary of Textron Inc.
128 Peter Street. P.C. Box 300 Pori Hope, Ontario LI A 3W4 (416) 885-7231
December 3, 1981
United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
ATTENTION:	NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
Dear Sirs:
RE:	GRIEVANCE MEETINGS
The Company and the Union agree that from time to time, meetings between the parties, for reasons of resolution of a grievance, may extend beyond the normal working hours of the persons involved. The Company will, in attempting to schedule such meetings, endeavour to hold them at times most convenient to the employees involved and to minimize the amount of time spent outside of regular working hours. However, in cases where a meeting extends beyond the normal working hours of the participants or is held at a time other than one which falls within the employees' regular shift, no compensation will be made to the employees for such time.
Yours very truly,
DAVIDSON INSTRUMENT PANEL TEXTRON
Richard E. Harmon Human Resources Manager
REH :cm
"The Instrument Panel Technology Leader"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
September 7, 1984
United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
ATTENTION:	NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
Dear Sirs:
RE:	SHIFT CHANGES
The Company and the Union agree that seniority employees who wish to change shift other than as a result of bidding pursuant to Article 8.08 shall place their name on the Shift Transfer Request List, indicating what shift they wish to transfer to. When a vacancy occurs in the same classification on the desired shift, the transfers will be affected on the basis of employee's seniority. If no such vacancy exists, but a vacancy exists in the General Factory classification on the desired shift, the most senior employee will be assigned to the job provided he has so indicated on the Shift Transfer Request List. This procedure shall take place prior to the posting of vacancies, and is subject to the provisions of Article 8.08.
Employees who exercise their right to transfer onto an alternate shift through the General Factory classification
"The Instrument Panel Technology Leader"
Letter of Understanding #2 Page 2
September 7, 1984
forfeit the right to bid under the provisions of Article
8.08	for a period of six (6) months from the date of transfer.
Yours very truly,
DAVIDSON INSTRUMENT PANEL TEXTRON
Richard E. Harmon Human Resources Manager
REH :cm
Davidson Instrument Panel Subsidiary of Textron Inc.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
September 7, 1984
united Rubber, cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC Local 889
ATTENTION:	NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
Dear Sirs:
RE:	DISCIPLINARY NOTATIONS
The Company agrees that when occasion arises to issue a disciplinary letter of notation to an employee, the following guidelines will apply:
1.	The notation will be issued not more than three < 3) working days following the infraction to which it refers.
2.	The notation will be issued to the employee(s) concerned with copies to the Union Steward for the appropriate area and to the employee's personnel file.
“The Instrument Panel Technology Leader'
t'
Letter of Understanding #3 Page 2
September 27, 1984
\
3
Should a period of twelve (12) months lapse between the issuance of a notation and the issuance of any subsequent related notation, the original notation will not be used in a disciplinary manner against the employee.
Yours very truly,
DAVIDSON INSTRUMENT PANEL TEXTRON
Richard E. Harmon Human Resources Manager
REH :cm
Davidson Instrument Panel
TEXTRON
Davidson Instrument Panel Subsidiary of Textron Inc.
128 Peter Street. P.O, Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario LI A 3W4 (416)885-7231
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #4
December 3, 1984
United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
ATTENTION:	NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
Dear Sirs:
RE:	WAGES AND INFLATION (AS AGREED BETWEEN THE PARTIES)
Should the inflation rate exceed the total wage increases granted during the first 2 years of this agreement.
The Company agrees to meet with the Union and this meeting will be for the purpose of adjusting the 3rd year wage rates. This adjustment will provide for an increase which corresponds to the differences between wage increases granted in the first 2 years of this agreement and the percent of increase in the inflation rate for the same period, as published by Statistics Canada in its Consumer Price Index.
Yours very truly,
DAVIDSON INSTRUMENT PANEL TEXTRON
Richard E. Harmon
Human Resources Manager
REH:cm
“The Instrument Panel Technology Leader”
Davidson Instrument Panel
Davidson Instrument Panel	128 Peter Street, P.O. Box 300
Subsidiary of Textron Inc.	Port Hope, Ontario LI A 3W4
(416)885-7231
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5
December 3, 1981
United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 8B9
ATTENTION:	NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
Dear Sirs:
RE:	BIDDING ON POSTINGS VACATED AS A RESULT OF PERSONAL
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
In cases where an employee is granted a personal leave of absence, the job that he or she occupies at the time leave is granted shall be exempted for thirty (30) days from the job posting procedure in Article 8.08 of the Collective Agreement. Should the leave continue beyond the thirty (30) day period, then the position will be filled through the normal procedure of job posting.
Yours very truly,
DAVIDSON INSTRUMENT PANEL TEXTRON
Richard E. Harmon Human Resources Manager
REH: cm
“The Instrument Panel Technology Leader"
Davidson Instrument Panel
Davidson Instrument Panel Subsidiary of Textron Inc.
128 Peter Street. P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 ;416) 885-7231
LETTER OE UNDERSTANDING #6
July 1, 1992
United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
ATTENTION:	NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
Dear Sirs:
RE:	ITEMS AGREED UPON BY THE COMPANY IN THE 1981
NEGOTIATIONS
In the course of the 1981 negotiations, the Company has
agreed to the following:
1.	The Company will change the pay day from Friday to Thursday of each week but reserves the right to return to a Friday pay day in the event that a significant increase in absenteeism on Fridays becomes apparent.
2.	The Company will implement a system to provide for collection of Union dues from those employees who would normally pay dues but are exempted in the regular deduction period due to lack of earnings in the period.
3.	The Company will provide for publication of highlight job descriptions to accompany job posting under Article 8.08 of this Agreement.
4.	The Company will provide for pay cheques to be in envelopes. This will become effective following automation of payroll preparation (approximately August 1982).
'The Instrument Panel Technology Leader"
Letter of Understanding #6 Page 2
July 1, 1992
5.	The Company will notify the Union of any job
classification changes prior to implementing any such changes.
Yours very truly,
DAVIDSON INSTRUMENT PANEL TEXTRON
Richard E. Harmon Human Resources Manager
REH :cm
Davidson Instrument Panel
TEXTRON
Davidson Instrument Panel Subsidiary of Textron Inc.
128 Peter Streei. PO. Sox 300 Port Hope. Ontario Li A 3W4 (416) 885-7231
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #7
September 1, 1987
United Rubber, Cor.V, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America,
AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
ATTENTION:	MR. R. MELNICK, PRESIDENT
Dear Sirs:
RE:	ABSENTEE POOL EMPLOYEES
The Company may from time to time utilize an Absentee Pool of temporary part-time personnel for work on a call in basis.
In the event that there are regular full-time employees on lay-off, such employees will be canvassed as to their availability to form part of the Absentee Pool,
Regular employees who place their names on the call in list will be expected to report for work when requested.
Pours very truly,
DAVIDSON INSTRUMENT PANEL TEXTRON
Richard E. Harmon Human Resources Manager
REH :cm
'The Instrument Panel Technology Leader'