MACLEAN GROUP INC. - HARVEY WOODS HOSIERY DIVISION
AND
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION CLC,AFL-CIO (TEXTILE DIVISION)
AND ITS LOCAL 986T
OK'21991	ooWloMi
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT entered into as of Septeirtoer i, 1991
Between:
MACLEAN GROUP INC.- HARVEY WOODS HOSIERY DIVISION, in the county of Oxford, Ontario, hereinafter referred to as "the company"
and
LOCAL 986T,
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, CLC, AFL-CIO (TEXTILE DIVISION),
hereinafter referred to as "the union"
************
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RIGHT OF EMPLOYEES TO BARGAIN AND TO BE REPRESENTED COLLECTIVELY,
THE PARTIES HERETO DO HEREBY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:

ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
1.01	The general purpose of this agreement is to establish and maintain collective bargaining relations between the company and its employees, and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to establish and maintain mutually satisfactory working conditions, hours, and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this agreement.
1.02	It is mutually understood that high standards of production, quality, and economy of manufacture are essential to the interests of both parties.
ARTICLE 2 BARGAINING AGENCY
2.01	The company agrees to recognize the union as the sole bargaining agency for its employees other than foremen, foreladies, those above the rank of foremen, and office staff.
2.02	The word "employee1' or "employees" used in this agreement shall mean any or all of the employees in the bargaining unit as defined above unless otherwise provided. Wherever in this agreement the pronoun "he" or "his" is mentioned, it shall be understood to refer to both male and female employees.
2.03	For the purposes of negotiation, the company agrees to recognize a bargaining committee of not more than five of its employees duly elected by members of the union, being as representative as possible of the various departments.
ARTICLE 3
UNION MEMBERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF DUES
3 . 01 The company agrees that all present employees covered by this agreement, except new employees during their probationary period shall, as a condition of employment, become and remain members of the union in good standing. The company may continue to employ an employee who has lost his good standing in the local of the A.C.T.W.U. until all of the appeal procedures to the International union have been exhausted.
■2'
3.02	New employees shall make application for membership in the union on forms furnished by the union at the time of their hiring, and shall become and remain members of the union in good standing as soon as their probationary period of an aggregate of fifty (50) days worked has been served.
3.03	The company agrees that it will deduct from the earnings of each new employee after completion of thirty (30) days of employment the initiation fee payable to the union.
The company also agrees that it will deduct semi-monthly from the earnings of employees who have completed their probationary period, union dues in an amount as prescribed by the union.
The company will remit the monies so deducted to the South-Western Ontario Joint Board whose receipt therefore shall be considered as a discharge to the company for the amount so deducted.
3.04	The company will, at the time of making each remittance to the South-Western Ontario Joint Board, specify the employees from whose pay such deductions were made.
ARTICLE 4
PRIVILEGES AND FREEDOM OF EMPLOYEE ACTION
4.01	The company agrees that during the life of this agreement it will not discontinue any properly established and recognized privileges now enjoyed by the employees without the mutual consent of the union. The union agrees that it will not unreasonably withcLd such consent.
4.02	stewards and officers shall obtain permission from their Immediate supervisor before leaving their working place to service grievances or to take part in negotiations. On entering a department or unit other than their own, they shall first inform the immediate supervisor of that department or unit. Stewards and officers shall be paid their average hourly earnings for time lost far servicing grievances or for negotiations. In addition, if the steward or officer is on incentive, he will receive a premium on the time lost of 1'0% with a minimum premium of five (5) minutes per occurrence and a maximum of fifteen (15) minutes per occurrence. Such time lost must be authorized by the foreman or his representative.
4.03	Where production requirements allow, stewards working on the afternoon shift will be granted the necessary time away from work to attend local union meetings. The union agrees to reimburse the company for payments made to the above employees for the time absent.
4.04	Employees attending first aid and fire drill programmes will be paid for the time attended during their shift at average or the rate of their job, whichever is applicable. Employees who attend the above programmes on their off shift Will, upon successful completion of the programme, be paid for the offshift time at their average or the rate of their job at straight time exclusive of premiums.
4.05	There will be no discrimination or coercion by the company or the union against any employee for any reason, except as outlined in this agreement.
4.06	Present and future employees who may wish to join the union shall be admitted without penalty and shall not be discriminated against by the union or the company.
4.07 Ui ses
by is <
ac tivities sha] not be purs l on t mpanj ng working hours of the employees except as mitt me; it and/or wit! prior permission by the 'any.
4.08	It is agreed that the union president shall be permitted to remain on the day shift providing:
(1)	There is no extra cost to the company.
(2)	The union representatives undertake to obtain agreement of the other persons in the president's department.
4.09	The union shall notify the company in writing of the names of its executive officers, bargaining committee members, grievance committee members, and stewards before the company shall be required to recognize them.
4.10	Officers shall have top seniority in their respective departments during layoffs. If, in exercising this right, the officer occupies a position which is different from his regular occupation, he will be allowed a familiarization period of up to ten working days in which to establish that he is qualified to do
•4'
the new job. This period is not to be construed as a training period. Both during and after the familiarization period, the officer must:
(1)	work in accordance with the company's guality standards
(2)	achieve 100% efficiency or the level of efficiency of the displaced employee.
If, during or after the familiarization period, the officer fails to meet the above quality and production standards, or runs an unreasonable amount of unsatisfactory work, or causes damage to equipment or machinery, he will be laid off with no entitlement to exercise further bumping rights.
ARTICLE 5
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
5.01	The responsibility for the management, operation, extension and curtailment of the business, as well as the authority to direct, classify, transfer, promote, demote, reprimand and discharge employees, shall be vested exclusively in the company. The company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with the provisions of this agreement.
5.02	A non-bargaining unit employee will not perform work done or work which can be done by employees in the bargaining unit except in the case of emergency to maintain the flow of production, technical occupations, in the instance of the development of new products or experimental work, and jobs which are at present being performed by non-bargaining unit personnel.
ARTICLE 6
RIGHT TO DISCIPLINE
6.01	The company reserves the right to discipline any employee for any just cause. Disciplinary action may consist of a reprimand, suspension, or discharge. Twelve (12) months after being issued, employee warning slips will he removed from the files. The union reserves the right to contest the penalty if the employee feels himself unjustly dealt with.
6.02	Any employee believing himself to have been unjustly disciplined may appeal such discipline through the regular grievance procedure. Appeal must be lodged within five (5) working days following the date of disciplinary action.
•5'
6.03	If it should be decided that the employee has been unjustly treated, his penalty may be adjusted in any way to which the parties agree or which has been decided by a subsequent arbitration board.
6.04	It is agreed that in the case of a discharge or a suspension, the disciplined employee shall have the opportunity of interviewing his shop steward and/or the local union president before leaving the premises of the company.
ARTICLE 7
ADJUSTMENT OF DISPUTES
7.01	In order to establish an orderly procedure for the handling of disputes, grievances, and other matters of mutual interest, the union shall establish a grievance committee of not more than five (5) employees, being as representative as possible of the various departments. The union shall have the right to have all members of the grievance committee present at any union/managemant meeting.
7.0 2 The chairman of the grievance committee shall have the right to enter any department of the plant in reference to disputes or grievances within said department. Before doing so, he shall arrange the matter with his own foreman and with the foreman of the department in which the dispute or grievance originated. Such permission shall not be unreasonably denied.
7.0 3 Any employee feeling that be has a complaint shall first discuss the matter with his foreman within five (5) working days after the circumstances giving rise to the complaint have occurred. If the employee ls still not satisfied, or does not receive a reply within three (3) days, he may then resort to the formal grievance procedure as hereafter set out.
7.04	(a) Any matter in dispute having become a formal grievance shall he submitted in triplicate (Step #1) to the foreman by the steward accompanied by the employee. The foreman's decision shall be in writing and shall be rendered within two (2) working days.
(fc>) Here, as in subsequent clauses, an extension of time may be agreed to by both parties if it is clear that circumstances warrant a delay. Both parties will try to hold delays to a minimum.
•6'
7.05	(a) Failing satisfaction, the steward and employee may take the matter to the plant manager (Step #2) by arrangement with the foreman. A decision shall be rendered within three (3) working days.
(b)	Policy grievances shall commence at Step #3 and discharge grievances at Step #2.
7.06	(a) Failing settlement, the matter shall be referred to the grievance conuntttes, who will take up the matter with company representatives (step #3). The company will render a decision within five working days.
(b)	Differences arising directly between the union and the company may be introduced at this stage ty mutual agreement. If this is not agreeable to both parties, the difference must ao throuah the formal grievance procedure outlined above.
(c)	Either party shall have the right to have its own special representatives present at this stage. All reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant to view disputed operations and to confer with the necessary witnesses.
(d)	If, after receiving a reply from the company representative at any stage in the grievance procedure, a grievance does not move to the next stage within ten (10) working days, the grievance will be deemed to have been settled. Prior to referral to arbitration, a period of thirty (30) days will be allowed.
7.07	(a) Failing satisfaction, the matter may be referred to a board of arbitration. This board shall be composed of one arbitrator of each of the parties. The two arbitrators shall meet immediately, and if within three (3) working days they fail to settle the grievance, they shall attempt to select a chairman of an arbitration board. If they are unable to agree on a chairman within two (2) working days, they may then reguest the Minister of Labour for the province of Ontario to assist them in selecting an impartial chairman. It is stipulated that the chairman shall not be a civil servant and shall have the necessary qualifications to render a judicial decision on the specific matter in question.
(b) In the event of default by either party in nominating its representative to the board of arbitration, the other party may apply to the Minister of Labour for the province of Ontario who shall have the power to effect such nomination.
7.08	Arbitrations shall be confined to the terms of the agreement and the arbitrator shall not be empowered to alter or amend any of the said terms.
7.09	The decision of the chairman shall be accepted by both parties.
7.10	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of the arbitrator appointed by it or on its behalf and the parties will jointly hear the expenses of the chairman.
ARTICLE 8
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
8.01	Accompanying and forming part of this agreement is Schedule A, which is a schedule of the hours of work, starting and quitting times, and rest periods for all shifts. Nothing in this agreement shall be construed as a guarantee of number of hours of work per day or number of hours of work per week unless otherwise stipulated in this agreement
8.02	Overtime hours are those worked in excess of the established daily hours of the department, except as outlined in 8.03 and 8.05.
8.03	(a) Non-salaried employees must work the full daily hours of the department before receiving overtime pay, except in cases of reduction of hours of work in the day because of excused absence, sickness or layoff, in which case overtime will be paid for work done outside of the scheduled starting and quitting times.
w Salaried employees entitled to receive payment for overtime will be paid overtime at straight time on any hours worked on Saturdays or worked in excess of their normal daily shift hours. One-half time extra will be paid on any such hours worked in excess of their standard fortnightly pay period hours.
-a-
S.04	(a) Overtime shall be allocated on a seniority basis as
follows:
1.	Firstly, to qualified operators in the classification within the department involved.
2.	Secondly, to qualified operators in the classification within other departments in the specific plant.
3.	Thirdly, to qualified operators within the department involved. Incentive occupations will be allocated to qualified incentive operators and non-incentive occupations to qualified non-incentive Operators.
If it is necessary to go outside the classification and department, overtime will be allocated irrespective of seniority to an employee who is capable of satisfactorily performing the work concerned and such employee shall be paid not less than his average earnings at overtime rate.
(b) Knitting Department ■ Allocation of Overtime Procedure
1.	When overtime is required, a notice will be posted in the department seeking volunteers. This notice will be posted as early as possible in the week (Wednesday at the latest) and those wishing to work overtime should sign the lists by Thursday at 10:00 a.m.
2.	Employees will have the opportunity to sign the day, afternoon, and night shift overtime lists with the exception that employees working on the Friday afternoon shift will not be eligible for night shift overtime that night.
3.	Using the applicable overtime lists, overtime will be allocated by seniority.
4.	The most senior operator will be assigned to her regular set of machines when working overtime. Remaining operators will be assigned sets at management's discretion.
5.	If an employee does not sign an overtime notice due to absence from work, she will be ineligible for overtime for that particular notice.
6.	In the event of the absence of an employee who had agreed to work overtime, the absence will be filled by offering the opportunity to work to the next most senior on the overtime lists for that particular shift.
(c)	Boarding Department - see letter of agreement - Schedule C
8.05	In the cases of shifts of less than eight (8) hours, overtime will not commence until after eight (8) hours have been worked, with the exception that part-time (evening) operators, brought in to be trained on the day shift and who continue to work through the evening shift, will be paid overtime for those hours in excess of their regular shift hours.
8.06	work done on Saturdays will be classified as overtime work, provided that Saturday does not form part of the established work week.
8.07	All authorized overtime will be paid at the rate of time and one-half. That is to say, the amount earned during the overtime will be increased by fifty (50) percent.
8.08	With the exceptions noted below, double time will be paid for work done on Sundays, and time and one-half will be paid for work done on the holidays listed in Article 11, The latter will be in addition to the normal pay for holidays.
8.09	when Sunday or a holiday forms part of an ®ployee's regular work week, he will not be paid overtime on the actual Sunday or holiday. However, he will be entitled to payment as in 3.08 above if he is required to work on the day granted in lieu of the Sunday or holiday.
8.10	Employees are expected to cooperate and perform overtimework when requested to do so by the company. However, no employee will be penalized if overtime work is refused.
ARTICLE 9
SHIFT PREMIUMS AND SHIFT ASSIGNMENTS
9.01	In cases of a job vacancy, the available shifts will be offered to the employees in the occupation on a seniority basis with the most senior employee being given the first choice of shifts followed by the next most senior employee and so on. The shift assignment that is left over will be given to the employee who fills the job vacancy either through the job posting procedure or through a new hire. During the training period, the employee may be assigned to any shift at the Company's discretion. This procedure will also be used when recalling employees from layoff.
•10-
9.02	In cases of layoff, the available shifts will be offered to the remaining employees in the occupation on a seniority basis with the most senior employee being given the first choice of shifts, followed by the next most senior employee and so on.
9.03	In cases where there is a redistribution of the number of employees on shifts within an occupation without altering the total number of employees in the occupation, the available shifts will be offered to the employees on a seniority basis with the most senior employee being given first choice of shifts followed by the next most senior employee and so on.
9.04	In cases where an employee who is subject to layoff bumps into another occupation, he will take the shift of the employee who was bumped.
9.05	Articles 9.01 through 9.04 do not apply to knitting machine mechanics, development dyers, shift dyers, and apprentice dyers. In these occupations shift assignments are at company discretion and are based upon the ability of the employees to perform the work that is available on the particular shifts.
9.06	Night shifts (i.e.- shifts extending past midnight) will receive base rates of $ .30 per hour above day shift base rates.
9.07	Afternoon shifts will receive base rates of $ .25 per hour above day shift base rates.
ARTICLE 10 VACATIONS WITH PAY
10.01	Prior to February 1 of each calendar year, the company will decide whether it will observe a two week plant shutdown for vacation purposes, and will notify the employees of the decision.
10.02	If there is a plant shutdown, the following provisions will apply;
(a)	The shutdown will occur during the two weeks inunediabsLy prior to the Civic Holiday.
•11'
(b)	The warehouse department will not be shut down for the annual vacation period.
(c) Employees who are required or are called back to work during the shutdown period will take their vacation at a time suitable to the employee.
(d)	Employees entitled to vacation of more than the two week plant shutdown period shall take their additional vacation period at a time mutually agreeable to the employee and the company. Employees taking their vacation or part thereof at a time other than shutdown must notify the company a minimum of two week5 in advance in order to receive vacation pay prior to the start of their vacation.
(e)	Employees who are not entitled to their full two weeks' vacation pay may work that part of the two weeks that they are not paid for, provided the company requests that they do so.
10.03	If there is no plant shutdown, the following provisions will apply:
(a)	Prior to March 1 of each calendar year, employees shall register their preferences for vacation time for their full vacation entitlement.
(b)	In cases of scheduling conflicts due to operational need, seniority will prevail provided that the employee registration was made prior to March 1. The company will provide employees with a final determination of their scheduled vacation by April 1.
(e) once confirmed, the company and the employee will make every reasonable effort to ensure that the final vacation schedule is honoured.
10.04	Employees shall not receive pay in lieu of vacation. Vacation pay shall be distributed during the employees' last regular shift prior to the start of his vacation.
10.05	Employees must take their full vacation entitlement between January l and December 31 of the year for which entitlement is granted.
10.06	Vacation pay will be computed as a percentage of the employee's total annual earnings (excluding previous year's vacation pay) during the twelve month period ending with and including the last pay period in June of the year in which vacation is to be taken. Vacation pay will be based on seniority as follows:
Seniority	Vacation Entitlement Vacation %
0 to 14 years	2 weeks	4
15 years and above	3 weeks	6
If vacation is taken between January and July (i.e. - before total vacation earnings have been earned) , employees will be paid at their regular weekly earnings (at hourly rate or average, whichever is applicable) for each full week of vacation taken. When total vacation earnings are accrued, any adjustment required will be applied to the vacation pay already received.
10.06	For vacation purposes only, the above seniority levels will be considered to have been attained if they are completed by December 31 of the year in which vacation is to be granted.
ARTICLE 11 HOLIDAYS
11.01	The following days will
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
be observed as holidays:
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Four floating holidays
Those employees who take inventory on December 24, 1991, or December 24, 1992 will be paid at straight time for the hours worked on that day, and will take their floating holiday on the next scheduled work day after New Year's Day.
If an employee worked on December 24 and his services are reguired on the next scheduled work day after New Year's Day, then he will make arrangements with his supervisor to take the floating holiday at a mutually agreeable time.
■13
In case any unforeseen circumstances should arise requiring a change in the above scheduling of the floating holidays, alternative arrangements will be discussed by the parties as far as possible in advance of the holidays.
11.02	The above holidays will he paid for according to rules set out in the following clauses which are based on the principle that pay for holidays is intended to protect employees against loss of pay and is not considered as extra pay.
11.03	In general, employees will be paid for a holiday as they would have been paid had it not been a holiday.
11.04	In the event of a paid holiday falling on a Saturday or Sunday, another mutually suitable day will be declared in lieu of the holiday and will be paid for. If the holiday falls in a vacation period, the vacation period will be extended by one (1) day.
11.05	In order to qualify for pay on a holiday, an employee must have completed three (3) months of employment prior to the holiday in question and must be at work:
(a) on the working day after if the holiday falls on a Monday:
(b) on the working day before if the holiday falls on a Friday: and
(c)	on both the working day before and the working day after if the holiday falls on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday.
Boxing Day will have only one qualifying day, which will be the employee's next regular working day. An employee will not be disqualified under this clause if he is absent on any of the qualifying days, provided that he has a satisfactory reason. This rule does not apply to Christmas Day. Refer to clause 11. OS below.
11.06	Employees who work less than their standard daily hours on the qualifying day will be paid proportionately less for the holiday. Where there are two (2) qualifying days, the average hours worked of the two (2) will be used to calculate the holiday pay, provided the employee has worked on both qualifying days.
14
11.07	Clauses 11.05 and 11.06 iircmediately above do not apply in cases of layoff or of proven sickness or accident during the week in which the holiday falls. In such cases, an employee who has completed three (3) months of employment prior to the holiday and who has worked a minimum of eight (8) full hours during the week in which the holiday falls, shall qualify for the holiday pay.
11.08	Clause 11.07 applies to all holidays except Christmas Day. In the case of Christmas Day, all employees will be paid a normal day's pay if they worked at least eight (8) full hours during the month of December and have completed three (3) months of employment prior to Christmas Day.
11.09	When an employee completes nine (9) months of active employment, he will become eligible subject to the terms of Article 11, to receive retroactive pay for all holidays which have occurred during his initial three (3) months of employment.
11.10	(a) In the event an employee is laid off and subsequently terminated under clause 14.05 (d) prior to meeting the requirements of 11.09, he shall, subject to re-employment within twelve (12) months of his termination date as determined under clause 14.05 <d), become eligible to receive retroactive pay for all holidays which occurred during his previous initial three (3) months of employment.
(b) Payments under (a) above will be processed within the first month of re-employment and be based on earnings at the time the holidays occurred.
(c)	Holidays occurring during the initial three (3) months of the re-employment period will be subject to the provisions under clause
11.09.
ARTICLE 12 WAGES AND TRANSFERS
12.01	The company agrees to pay and the union agrees to accept for the term of this agreement the schedule of wage rates in effect at the date hereof and set out in Schedule B which forms part of this agreement.
•15*
12.02	(a) An employee (incentive or hourly) temporarily transferred to another job when there is work on his regular job shall be paid on the basis of the rate for the new job or his regular rate or average earnings, whichever is higher.
(b)	Transfers of this kind at company convenience shall not be of more than thirty (30) regular working days duration unless extended by mutual agreement. when an employee returns to his regular job after completing such a transfer of fifteen (15) or more regular working days, he shall be guaranteed his previous average e.amLngs. for a period of two (2) days.
12.03	An employee transferred to another job in lieu of layoff will get the rate of the job to which he is transferred.
12.04	In the case of transfers and demotions - if the employee feels that he has been unjustly treated, he shall have recourse to the grievance and arbitration procedures.
12.05	An employee who has been transferred to meet seniority requirements will take the first opening on the job he left unless other mutually satisfactory arrangements are made.
12.06	Employees retained for the purpose of stocktaking shall be paid on the basis of their average hourly earnings.
12.07	Employees retained to do maintenance work shall be paid the rate of the job.
12.OS	An employee transferred to a non-incentive job through a job posting or in lieu of layoff and having more than three (3) months seniority shall start at the fourth month wage level of the job. An employee with less than three (3) months seniority shall start at the month wage level attained on his previous job.
12.09 An anployee's holiday pay and overtime pay shall be excluded from the calculation used to determine compliance with the minimum wage regulations.
12.10	An earnings shall be calculated daily and if necessary, adjusted to provide daily earnings of not less than the Ontario provincial minimum hourly wage.
•16
12.11	An employee who has been absent due to illness, layoff, or pregnancy will retain her last established quarterly average prior to her absence in the event she has had less than three (3) pays in the quarter since her return to work.
ARTICLE 13 WORK STANDARDS
13.01	The following clauses are written on the understanding that it is desirable to both parties to maintain consistent and equitable work standards.
13.02	Work standards shall normally and to the best of the company's ability be so set as to provide the average experienced operator with an earnings opportunity of twenty (20) percent above the base rate when doing the work in the prescribed manner and under standard conditions.
13.03	It is understood that the figure of twenty (20) percent is approximate and because it represents a wide range, does not necessarily apply to any one individual, or to any small group of individuals. While roughly one-half the operators in general would probably earn from ten (10) to thirty (30) percent above base, it is expected that some will fall below ten (10) parce*5nt and others will exceed thirty (30) percent.
13.04	Work standards will be corrected when the work content of the operation is found to have increased or decreased a total of five (5) percent or more because of such factors as changes in equipment, machinery, attachments, machine speeds, quality or type of material, layout and method of performing the operation.
It is agreed that in the event of any such changes, the entire operation will be restudied and a new work standard established to yield a twenty (20) percent earnings opportunity as in 13.02 above.
13.05	It is the responsibility of the company to establish proper work standards on new operations and on revised operations within thirty (30) days. An extension of time may be agreed to by the parties if circumstances warrant it.
13.06	New standards and standards revised as above will be classed as temporary for a period of up to one (1) month during which time they will be subject to review. Within the one (1) month period,
•17'
they will be confirmed unless the temporary period is extended by the parties.
13.07	In the case of minor or routine changes, the company agrees to post notice in advance. A copy of such notice will be supplied to the steward of the department concerned.
In the case of major changes, discussion will take place between the proper representatives of the union and the company.
13.08	In discussing proposed changes, all necessary information will be made available to the union prior to the effective date of the change, it being the intention to arrive at the correct standard and to prevent the development of grievances.
13.09	The union shall have the right to bring in its own experts on time study and methods at such discussions. Such persons shall have the privilege of studying the actual operation in the plant.
13.10	If the matter is not then settled, the parties agree to arrange a suitable trial period during which time both parties will endeavour to discover the facts as to the correctness of the standard, etc. During any such trial period, the company agrees to pay the employees involved individual average earnings computed on their earnings of the previous quarter or such other period as may be agreed upon. The parties may agree to interim standards or rates in lieu of hourly earnings.
13.11	The company and the union agree to cooperate to ensure a fair trial during the trial period.
13.12	It is agreed that, apart from the foregoing, any standard that has been set and which is found to be in error because of omissions, miscalculations, misinformation, etc. shall be corrected.
13.13	If investigation, trial periods, etc. do not result in a satisfactory settlement, either party may invoke grievance procedure commencing at the appropriate level. Should a new or revised standard (temporary or otherwise) be grieved upon and found to be in error in favour of the aggrieved, the retroactive adjustment shall be made back to the date the new or revised standard (temporary or otherwise) was implemented, provided the
■13
grievance was filed with the company within three (3) months of the standard's implementation, otherwise retroactive adjustment shall only he made back to the date of the grievance.
13.14	In the case of standards which appear to be too low or too high, it is agreed that the parties will discuss the matter with the intention of arriving at an equitable solution.
13.15	Under circumstances where a grievance is filed on an incentive rate and a further method change is implemented prior to the settlement of such grievance, the company will pay average earnings back to the date of the complaint. However, in cases where the original method can he reconstructed for a period of at least one (1) week prior to the union's engineer conducting his study, then the original grievance will stand and average earnings will not be paid.
ARTICLE 14 SENIORITY
14.01 Because of the difficulty of applying seniority rules in certain instances, it is understood that the rules here set out are also to be regarded as general principles. Where controversy occurs, or where there is doubt as to the manner of applying a rule, the company and the union will discuss the matter, the intention being to reach a decision that will be as equitable as possible under the existing conditions. Unless otherwise specified, the terms "seniority" and "service" refers to total seniority and service accumulated with:
MacLean Group Inc. -Harvey Woods Hosiery Division,
Harvey Woods, a Division of T.A.G. Apparel Group Inc.,
Harvey Woods Limited, and
York Knitting Mills.
14.02 Seniority Lists
(a)	The Company agrees to post every three (3) months lists showing the seniority of all its employees. These lists will include the employees' occupations.
A list of the recognized departments for use in administration of seniority provisions is set out below.
•19-
Knitters and Mechanics
Knitting service
Toeclosing
Greige Stock
Dyehouse
Boarding
Design and Development Finishing
Receiving, Shipping, and Stores
superintendence
Maintenance
Warehouse
(b)	Employees shall be considered temporary during the probationary period of their employment and no seniority rights shall be recognized during this period. After the probationary period, they shall be considered regular employees and their seniority shall date back to the day on which their employment began.
14.03	Layoffs and Recall
(a)	Employees and the steward will be notified of layoffs of two (2) or more working days at least twenty-four hours in advance and layoffs of shorter duration by the end c£ the shift of the previous working day. The company will not be penalized for failure to give notice when the layoffs are caused by emergency conditions beyond its control and the employees have been notified of the existence of such conditions.
(b)	Seniority shall be recognized in the matter of layoffs and recall of employees (exception - section 4.10). when a layoff occurs, the employee with the lowest seniority in the occupation where the reduction is needed will be the first employee laid off. This provision is subject to the requirement that, in the opinion of the company, the remaining employees in the occupation have the qualifications and proficiency to perform the work that is available. The senior of the laid off employees shall be the first to exercise his bumping rights.
(c)	Given sufficient seniority, an employee shall exercise his bumping rights in the following manner and sequence:
1.	Displace the most junior employee in the department who is not performing an occupation listed in section (d) below.
20-
2.	If unable to exercise rights as per (1) above, the employee will displace the most junior employee in the plant who is not performing an occupation listed in section (d) below.
(d)	Jobs Into Which Bumping Is Not Allowed
Knitting Mechanic Shop Mechanic Knitter
Maintenance Mechanics - Apprentice and Classes A, B, and C
Apprentice Dyer
Shift Dyer
Development Dyer
Looper
Receiver and Stock Control Lead Hand Warehouseperson
(e)	Any employee who exercises his bumping rights will be allowed a familiarization period of up to ten working days in which to establish that he is qualified to do the new job. This period is not to be construed as a training period. Both during and after the familiarization period, the employee who has exercised his bumping rights must:
1.	work in accordance with the company's quality standards
2,	demonstrate continuous progress in achieving 100% efficiency or the level of efficiency of the displaced employee.
If, during or after the familiarizationperiod, the employee fails to meet the above quality and production standards, or runs an unreasonable amount of unsatisfactory work, or causes damage to equipment or machinery, he will be laid off with no entitlement to exercise further bumping rights.
(f)	Seniority may be waived for layoffs of one (1) day or less for an accumulated total of six (6) days for each employee during each calendar year.
(g)	Should business conditions necessitate a curtailment of production, the company will call a meeting with the union coTODittee and business agent in order to arrive at the most suitable arrangement. If the layoff is not likely to exceed four
(4) weeks, consideration will be given to the possibility of a reduction of hours worked in the week rather than reduction of staff, in order to spread the available work and to-avoid the loss of trained operators. Curtailment of working hours will not be introduced except by mutual agreement.
(h) An employee transferred from one (1) department to another shall retain his seniority in his former department for a period of thirty (30) working days. At the end of this time his seniority will be credited to the department to which he has been transferred unless this period is extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
In cases of temporary transfers of less than thirty (30) days, or any longer period by mutual agreement between the company and the union, the employee shall retain his seniority in the original group from which he has transferred. The company will notify the union in writing of and temporary transfers and their expected duration.
(!) Employees whose regularly scheduled work week is not more than twenty-five (2 5) hours or less than fifteen (15) hours are to be designated as part-time workers. Special seniority lists shall be established for such part-time workers and shall be applicable to them only. Part-time workers will, in case of layoff, be laid off following homeworkers , However, when it is necessary to increase or decrease the number of employees in this category, they shall be laid off and recalled in accordance with their seniority standing as designated on such special seniority lists, subject to the same conditions regarding performance on the job as set out in 14.03 (b) and (e) above.
Part-time employees shall have the right to transfer to a job on a full-time basis, provided there is a vacancy.
(j)	For the purpose of this clause all students, with the exception of co-op students will be classified with people hired outside the bargaining unit for temporary help.
After discussing with the union the number of people to be hired and the jobs to be performed, the company may hire temporary employees for a period of time not to exceed 80 working days.
Following the completion of the so working days, the company will post the job on a permanent basis or the job will become redundant.
Temporary employees will not be required to pay union dues nor Will they be eligible for benefits during their temporary employment.
When the job performed by the temporary employee is posted on a permanent basis, the temporary employee will have the opportunity to apply. However, the temporary employee would only be awarded the job if no bargaining unit employee applies for the posting and is accepted under the terms of Article 14.
If temporary employees are successful in their application, their seniority date will become the date of full-time employment.
(k)	Notwithstanding the provisions in clause 2.01, homeworkers will not be considered part of the bargaining unit, and will have no seniority status. When a layoff becomes necessary, homeworkers will be laid off first, followed by temporary employees, then followed by probationary employees, etc. in accordance with clause
14.03	"Layoffs and Recall."
14.04	Postings
(a) The company agrees to post notices of all "initial" job vacancies. The company also agrees to post notices of job vacancies which arise as a direct result of filling the "initial" vacancy up to a maximum of four subsequent vacancies for each "initial" vacancy. The notices referred to above will be made for a period of three working days before the position is permanently filled.
Employees with less than six months of service with the company are not entitled to apply for job postings.
The successful applicant shall commence working in the job within eleven (11) working days of the date of the posting. However, this period may be extended by mutual agreement. In the event the posted job is being temporarily filled by another employee, the successful applicant shall after the eleventh (11th) working day, be paid not less than his average earnings.
All applicants for a posted job shall be notified in writing of the company's decision within two (2) days of the removal of, or the expiry date on the job posting notice, with a copy to the local recording secretary.
Any employee who makes an application on a job posting and is accepted, must remain on the new job for a period of not less than twelve (12) months for those occupations specified below and not less than six (6) for all others before applying for another job.
•23-
Knitting Mechanic Looping
Apprentice Dyer Shift Dyer Maintenance Mechanic Knitter
(b) Notices of non-incentive job vacancies shall include a general description of the job and appropriate base rate. The description is only to provide a general outline as to what the job involves and is not intended to limit or restrict the company from adding or the employee performing other duties as assigned.
(c)	Promotions to positions outside the bargaining unit shall not be subject to seniority rules: nevertheless, it is the policy of the company to adhere to the principles of seniority.
(d)	In the case of promotions and opportunities for advancement within the bargaining unit, ability being sufficient, seniority shall be the governing factor, except that in the case of promotions to highly skilled jobs requiring specific qualifications, such qualifications may be taken into account. The company may exercise discretion in the selection of lead hands as they require special qualifications.
(e)	In cases of maternity and/or parental leave or extended sick leave, the following provisions will apply to job postings.
1.	The job will not be posted. The company will hire a new temporary employee.
2.	The temporary employee will be required to pay an initiation fee and union dues, and will be eligible for benefits.
3.	When the employee returns from leave, the temporary employee will be indefinitely laid off with no humping rights or recall rights.
4.	should the regular employee not return from leave, the company will post the job if its performance is still required. If no bargaining unit employee applies for and is accepted for the posting, then the temporary employee will be given consideration in filling the job. If the temporary employee is chosen for the job, then his seniority date will b-e the date of first hire.
•24'
14.05	Loss of seniority
An employee shall lose his seniority and be subject to termination if he:
(a)	voluntarily leaves the employ of the company;
(b)	is discharged:
(c)	after layoff fails to notify the company within three (3) working days of his intention to report for work after actual receipt of call. The employee must report for work within seven (7) calendar days following such three (3) day period unless a further extension is received through an application under the terms of Article 15, L-aave of Absence;
(d> has been laid off for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months in the case of employees having less than one (1) year's seniority;
(e) has been laid off for a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive months in the case of employees having more than one (1) year's seniority:
(£) retires:
(g) fails to return to work upon termination of an authorized leave of absence or utilizes a leave of absence for purposes other than those for which the leave of absence was granted, unless he is excused by the company or a leave of absence extension is granted by the company:
(h)	is absent from work without permission for more than three (3) regular working days except in cases of extreme emergency;
(L) is caught stealing;
(j) (exclusive of Workers' Compensation cases) is absent due to illness or accident for a period of twenty-four consecutive months. This period may be extended with mutual agreement between the company and the union.
•25-
It shall be the duty of every employee to promptly notify the payroll department, 18 Vansittart Ave, Woodstock, in writing, of any change of his address and/or telephone number. If an employee fails to do this, the company will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach such employee.
14.06	Transfer Back To The Bargaining Unit
An employee who accepts a position outside the bargaining unit may transfer back to the bargaining unit without loss of previously accumulated seniority if such transfer is initiated by the company and within six (6) calendar months. Such transfer can he effected only without displacing a member of the bargaining unit. In the event there are bargaining unit members on layoff, the employee being transferred back will be laid off and placed on the bottom of the recall list and will remain on layoff until all members have been recalled and a vacancy arises.
It is understood that during the period the employee is out of the bargaining unit he will not have the protection of the union agreement and will not accumulate seniority.
14.07	The company agrees that prior to hiring new employees, the parties will jointly check the list of employees on layoff with the purpose of selecting employees who have the qualifications to be trained for the job available.
14.08	Right of Appeal
Any employee believing himself to have been unjustly treated under these seniority clauses may appeal such treatment through the regular grievance and arbitration procedures. Such appeal must be lodged within five (5) working days following the date of the alleged unjust treatment. otherwise, any adjustment arising from a decision under the grievance or arbitration procedures shall not be made retroactive for more than five (5) working days prior to the date the appeal was originally made.
ARTICLE 15 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
15.01	The Company will grant leave of absence as follows: (a) To any employee for a reasonable time for good cause.
(b) To three (3) delegated members from the local to attend union conventions or conferences. However, four (4) may attend the international conference and up to six (6) may attend the Canadian conference. In order to avoid disruption of production, no more than two (2) delegates will be chosen from any one (1) department in which there are five (5) or more employees and not more than one
(1)	delegate will be chosen from a department in which there are four (4) or less employees.
(c) To an employee for the purposes : ir	and/or i
leave in accordance with the provisions of che Employment Standards Act
15.02	(a) Any leave of absence will be in writing, with copy to the union and no such leave will affect an employee's seniority rights subject, however, to the loss of seniority provisions under clause 14.05 (g) and clause 15.03. The employee will return to the job classification he had before such leave. If the job no longer exists, he will be offered an eguivalent job,
(b) An employee who has been away on sick leave or Workers' Compensation will be reinstated in his job as in 15.02 (a), if he can still perform it satisfactorily. If he cannot do so, every effort will he made to place him in a job which he can perform satisfactorily.
15.03	Absence Due To Illness (Exclusive of Workers' Compensation Cases)
An employee will cease to accumulate seniority if he has been absent from work for twenty-four consecutive months due to illness or non-work-related accident. This period may be extended with mutual agreement between the company and the union.
15.04	Any leave of absence of longer than four (4) weeks' duration will he discussed between the company and the union.
15.05	An employee who is absent for three (3) consecutive days or longer is reguired to notify the company not later than 24 clock hours prior to his regular shift of his intention to return to work.
•27-
If such notification is not given and the employee reports for work, the foreman is not required to put him on his regular job on the day in question. Furthermore, if there is no work available for him, he will not be entitled to call-in pay.
ARTICLE 16
PAYMENT FOR STOP TIME
16.01	The company will pay average earnings to operators for time lost during the work day through machine breakdowns which are not the fault of the operator. If available, other suitable work will be assigned to the operators during delays of this kind (knitters -see exception • Wage Schedule B ■ EV) ,
ARTICLE 17 CALL-IN PAY
17.01	Any employee who reports for work at his regular shift and is sent home because of lack of work shall be paid the equivalent of four (4) hours work at his regular rate, provided that, if requested by the company, the employee shall perform available work to which he may be assigned and further provided that this shall not apply in the event of general power or steam failure, fire, flood, or other major conditions beyond the control of the company.
ARTICLE 18 STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
18.01	In conformity with the Labour Relations Act of the province of Ontario in the matter of illegal strikes and lockouts, and in view of the orderly procedure for settling grievances, the company agrees that there shall be no lockouts during the life of this agreement.
18.02	Similarly, the union agrees that it will not cause, direct, or participate in any strike or other action which will stop, curtail, limit, or interfere with the duties, working effort, or production of any employee or group of employees.
18.03	No employee, during the life of this agreement, whether a union member or not, shall cause or take part in a strike, slowdown of production, stoppage of work, or picketing for any cause whatsoever at MacLean Group Inc. • Harvey Woods Hosiery Division or
•28-
related companies. Should an employee do so, he shall be deemed to have violated this agreement and will be subject to dismissal. In the case of violation of this clause by an individual or individuals, the union agrees that it will make every effort to rectify the situation.
ARTICLE 19 HEALTH AND WELFARE
19.01	Commencing as of the first of the month following completion of an ®ployee's probationary period, the company agrees to provide and pay the full premium cost of the following:
(i)	Group Life Insurance coverage of $10,000,00. This coverage will be replaced with a $4,000.00 paid up life insurance policy for employees who retire at age 6S and have three or more years of service with the company.
(ii)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage for $10,000,00,
(iil) Dependent Life Insurance coverage for $1,000.00 for the anployee's spouse and $1,000.00 for each of the employee's dependent children.
(iv)	Weekly Indemnity coverage of 2/3 of the employee's weekly earnings up to UIC maximum payable on a 1,1,8,15 basis.
(v)	Visioncare coverage to amaxiroum of $100.00 per person per two years with no deductible.
(vi)	Extended Health Care coverage with no deductible.
(vli) Drug plan with no deductible.
(viii) A plan to cover the difference in cost between ward, semiprivate, and private hospital room coverage.
Items v, vi, vii, and viii above will cover the employees and their dependents.
Any employee between the age of 60 and 65 with twenty ot more years of continuous service with the company will be provided with the benefits outlined in article 19.01, if required , except weekly indemnity, should such employee retire before the age of 65.
•29'
19.02	The company will provide a basic dental plan with 80% reimbursement, no deductible, and no maximum per person per year. The plan will cover employees and their dependents. Premium costs will be paid as follows. Employees will continue to pay the same dollar amount per pay as they were paying as of August 31, 1991, with the company paying the remainder of the premium costs. Any premium increases which occur after August 31, 1991 will be absorbed in full by the employee until such time as the company and the employee are each paying 50% of the total dental premium costs.
19.03	Benefits and plans outlined in articles 19.01 and 19.02 are qualified in their entirety by reference to the underlying policies or contracts of insurance. The terms of any contract issued in respect thereof by an insurance agency or governmental agency shall be controlling in all matters pertaining to qualifications of employees for benefits thereunder and in all matters pertaining to the existence and extent of benefits and conditions.
19.04	Bereavement Pay
In the event of a death in an employee's "immediate family," the employee will De alllowed reasonable time off and will be reimbursed at his regular wage rate for time lost through such absence, provided that the total amount of such reimbursement shall not exceed the aggregate of:
(a)	three (3) days' pay for the employee concerned who attends the funeral;
(b)	one (1) day's pay for the employee concerned who does not attend the funeral.
The term "immediate family" as used herein shall mean an employee's:
husband
wife
children
father
mother
brother
sister
grandchildren
half-brother
half-sister
father-in-law
mother-in-law
step-father
step-mother
step-children
A common-law spouse relationship will be recognized for bereavement pay purposes, provided that it has been registered by the employee with the company's employee relations department, Registration of a common-law relationship will exclude previous marital relationship and family from bereavement pay.
30
In the event of a death of an employee's "other family members," the employee will he allowed reasonable time off and will be reimbursed at his regular wage rate for the time lost through such absence, provided that the employee attends the funeral and that the total amount of such reimbursement shall not exceed the aggregate of one (l) day's pay for the employee concerned.
The term "other family members" as used herein shall mean an employee's:
grandparent legal guardian daughter-in-law son-in-law
sister-in-law
brother-in-law
stepfather-in-law
stepmother-in-law
Pay for bereavement leave shall be limited to the normal number of hours per day at the employee's current hourly rate in the case of non-incentive workers and at either the base rate or quarterly average rate, if applicable, for incentive operators, hut will not, unless excluded herein, be paid in addition to any other type of allowed pay for the same days, such as vacation pay etc., nor will it be paid to employees absent on a personal, sickness, pregnancy, or Workers' Compensation leave of absence or to employees on layoff at the time of death. Holidays, as per clause 11.01 will be excluded in determining the three (3) day eligibility period.
When advice of a death is received during the course of an employee's regular work day, he will he authorized to leave the plant and will, if eligible, be paid for the remainder of the day, as if he had actually worked his complete regular shift. However, any hours paid under these circumstances will be charged against his maximum allowable bereavement pay.
The company, at its discretion, reserves the right to request proof of death and relationship.
19.05	Injury Allowance
Employees who are injured in the performance of their duties and are sent to a doctor or become compensation cases because of such injuries shall he paid at their regular wage rate for the balance of the shift on which the injury occurred.
19.06	Jury Duty
The company will pay an employee who is subpoenaed as a witness or called for jury duty for each day, or part day, of such service, the difference between his average hourly earnings in the case of
•31
incentive workers and his time work rate in case of time workers, for the number of hours he normally works on his regular shift, and the payment he receives for such service. The employee must present proof of service and the amount of pay received. No employee shall receive in excess of his normal pay.
19.07	Long Service Sick Leave Plan (a) Effective: September 1, 1984.
(b) Eligibility: 25 years of consecutive service
(c)	On the anniversary date of 25 years of consecutive service, employees become eligible to accumulate benefits based on the time frame outlined below.
(3) Every 73 day time frame period = 1 day credit (maximum 5 days per annual period)
(e)	Annual Time Frame Period - September 1 to August 31
Sept. 1 to Nov. 12 Nov. 13 to Jan. 24 Jan. 25 to April 6 April 7 to June 18 June 19 to Aug. 31
73 days 73 days 73 days 73 days 73 days
(f)	The one (1) day sick leave credit will not accumulate if an employee is absent from work more than half (1/2) of the working days in the 73 day time frame period.
(g)	Statutory holidays and vacation will be considered as days worked.
(h)	Benefits
Payments for absences due to sickness will, when requested, be paid when the absence occurs. Payments for unclaimed sick days will be made at the end of the annual time frame period. Payments will be made at the employee's average or hourly rate at the time of payment.
-32-
ARTICLE 20
TECHNOLOGICAL UNEMPLOYMENT SEVERANCE PAY
20.01	Technological unemployment shall be defined as unemployment which results from increasing the man-hour output of machines by installation of new equipment or by the redesign of existing equipment or by the displacement of hand work by machines, within the department from which the severance takes place. The company shall notify the union prior to the introduction of any technological changes.
20.02	Severance shall take place in accordance with the established seniority procedure except that the company reserves the right to call for applications for severance from other employees in the department and to sever the employment of any applicants instead of those who would otherwise he automatically severed.
20.03	Employees displaced by technological unemployment will be eligible for a severance allowance on the basis of one (1)week for each full year of seniority or proportional part thereof.
20.04	The rate of severance pay for each year's seniority will he calculated by multiplying the average hourly earnings of the employee during the last eight (8) weeks of his employment by the number of hours in the employee's regular working week.
20.05	The determination of the number of employees displaced, and the liability of the company for severance wages, if any, shall be made as of the date the technological change is put into effect on the basis of conditions then existing. No displacement shall be considered to have occurred if:
(a)	other comparable jobs are available in the same department; or
(b)	other jobs are available in other departments of the same plant at rates of pay comparable to rates of pay in the employee's former job, provided he is physically able to perform the new job.
20.06	An employee who receives severance pay shall completely forfeit his seniority rights. In the event of subsequent reemployment by the company, the employee shall be regarded as a new employee with the following exceptions:
&
1.	his previously attained seniority will be added to current ongoing service in determining vacation entitlement and pay as outlined in article 10, and
2.	if he was a participant under the Long service Sick Plan, (clause 19.07) before severance, he will become eligible
immediately upon re-employment.
20.07	Under circumstances where employees are affected by technological change and new or greater skills are required than already possessed by affected employees, such employees shall at the discretion of the company, (subject to formal grievance if refused) be given a reasonable period of time, as determined by the company, to perfect or acquire the skills necessitated by the new method of operation.
ARTICLE 23 NOTICES
21.01	The union shall have the right to post notices on the company notice boards, provided that such notices are signed by authorized officers of the union and have been approved by the manag^nent.
ARTICLE 22 SAFETY AND HEALTH
22.01	The company has agreed to provide the union upon request, with a list of chemicals used in the plants. Only the local president, vice-president, or business agent may initiate such requests. The company will endeavour to provide this information within five (5) working days of receipt of the request. An extension of time may be agreed to by both parties if it is clear that circumstances warrant a delay.
ARTICLE 23 TERMINATION
23.01	This agreement shall remain in force from September 1/ 1991 until Aucfus£__2Xj__199^ and from year to
WTTfEen notice of amendment or termination is given by either party within one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the expiry date. If the parties enter into negotiations for the purpose of amending this agreement and agreement on the renewal or amendment of this
34
agreement is not reached prior to the normal termination date hereof, the termination of this agreement shall be automatically extended until consummation of a new agreement or the completion of the conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Labour Relations Act, 1975, of the province of Ontario, and
(a)	seven (7) days following issuance of the conciliation board's report: or
(b)	fourteen (14) days have elapsed after the Minister of Labour has released to the parties a notice that he does not deem it advisable to appoint a conciliation board thereunder (if any) whichever should first occur.
23.02	Should the company cease operation, however, for reasons beyond its control while the agreement remains in force, the expiry date of the agreement shall be postponed until six (6) months after resumption of normal operations.
ARTICLE 24 RETIREMENT
24.01 An employee shall be automatically retired on the first day of the month following his sixty-fifth (65th) birthday.
ARTICLE 25 LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
25.01 Accompanying and forming part of this agreement is Schedule c, which covers letter of understanding and agreement.
•35-
FOR THE UNION:
Dale Oxley Coirmittee
Marilyn Slade committee
Virginia Halushan Committee
FOR THE COMPANY:
David Robichaud President
Hans Heyennan Plant Manager
Lynda Miller Committee
Elaine Harburn Committee
Teresa Webb committee
David Kellam Controller
George FeleKi Personnel Manager
SOUTH-WESTERN ONTARIO JOINT BOARD,
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, CLC, AFL-CIO (TEXTILE DIVISION)
Ken Baker Business Agent
SCHEDULE A
DEPARTMENT
HOURS WORKED IN DEPARTMENT
REST
PERIOD
Knitting
Rotating
Non-rotating
Toeclosing Greige Stock
Dyehouse Non-rotating
Boarding
Finishing
Design & Development
Maintenance
Superint'ce
Rec., ship. & stores
Non-rotating
Days
Afternoons Nights Days Days Days
Afternoons
Nights
Days
Afternoons
Nights
Days
Days
Days
Days
Days
Days
7 i 00 a.m. 3:00 p.m.
11:00 p.m.
7:00 a.m.
7:00 a.m.
7:00 a.m. 3:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m.
7:00 a.m. 3:60 p.m. liroo p.m.
7:00 a.m.
7:00 a.m.
7:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m.
3:00 p.m. ll.'OO p.m
1-10
1-10
-	7:00 a.m. 1-10
3:10 p.m. 1-10
3:30 p.m. 2-10
3:30 p.m. 1-10 11:30 p.m. 1-10
-	7:30 a.m. 1-10
3:00 p.m. li:00 p.~
1-10
1-10
7:00 a.m. 1-10 3:10 p.m. 1-10 3:30 p.m. 2-10
min.
min.
min.
min.
min.
min.
min.
min.
min.
min.
min.
min.
min.
3:30 p.m. 2-10 min. 3:30 p.m. 2-10 min. 3:30 p.m.
2-10 min. 7:00 a.m. - 3:10 p.m. 1-10 min.
Warehouse
LUNCH
PERIOD
2 0 min. 20 min.
20 min.
2	0 min.
30 min.
30 min. 30 min. 30 min.
20 min. 20 min. 20 min.
20 min.
30 min.
30 min.
3	0 min. 3 0 min.
20 min.
-37-
WAGE SCHEDULE B
I.	All Departments Unless Indicated Otherwise
When applicable, the company agrees to pay one or more of the premiums listed below in addition to the base rate for any occupation except in the case where the premium has already been included in the base rate.
1.	first aid attendant - 25 cents per hour
2.	teaching bonus -all occupations - 25 cents per hour
3.	lead hand bonus - 25 cents per hour
4.	temporary lead hand - 25 cents per hour
5.	shift premium - afternoon shift - 25 cents per hour
- night shift - 30 cents per hour
II. Maintenance Department - Mechanics Classification
1.	The rates listed under the maintenance mechanics classifications are guaranteed minimums. The company may, at its discretion, pay more than the minimums stated.
2.	Progression from apprentice mechanic up through the varous classes and/or levels is based upon the employee meeting qualifying standards and is at the total discretion of the company.
3.	The direction, classification, re-classification, grading, adjustment, transfer, promotion, and demotion of mechanics will he at complete company discretion.
4.	The company has complete and total discretion in the selection of apprentices as well as all other classes and/or levels regardless of whether the selection is made internally or externally.
5.	The maintenance department classifications are paid on an hourly basis.
6.	The expected average apprenticeship period for a maintenance mechanic is two (2) years.
7.	The company will keep the union local secretary informed of wage and salary increases as they occur.
•38'
III,	Knitting Department - Mechanics Classification
1.	New hires are to start at the level to be determined by the company.
2.	Any vacancy for mechanics (knittingand shop) will be posted and filled in the normal manner from within provided the applicants) have the required qualifications as established by the company. Should none of the applicants have sufficient qualifications, the position will be filled by a new employee.
IV.	Knitting Department ■ Knitter Classification • Machine Downtime Procedure
Major (anymachine down four (4) hours or greater on any shift) . If the machine load falls to less than 120%, payment is average or actual earnings, whichever is greater.
V.	Guaranteed Rate - Incentive Operators
The guaranteed rate during the probationary period for incentive operators will be ten percent (10%)less than the incentive base rate of the position.
WAGE SCHEDULE B
DEPARTMENT TITLE & OCCUPATION
CLASSIFICATION
DETAILS
INCENTIVE OR	BASE RATES EFFECTIVE
NON-INCENTIVE SEPT. 1/91 SEPT. 1/92 MAR.1/93
KNITTING Knitting M/c Oper;
Knitting Mechanic
I
Start			HOURLY NI
After	6 months		HOURLY NI
After	12	months	HOURLY NI
After	18	months	SALARY
After	24	months	SALARY
After	30	months	SALARY
After	36	months	SALARY
7.14	7.35	7.56
9.31	9.56	9.81
9.73	9.98	10.23
10.15	10.40	10.65
10.57	10,82	11.07
10.99	11.24	11.49
11.41	11.66	11.91
11.90	12.15	12.40
shop Mechanic service Operator
TOECLOSING Rosso/saaiaing M/C Operator Looping
service Operator
GREIGE Greig* Stock Packer STOCK
Greiga Stock Picker
SALARY	12.35
NI	8.28
I	7.01
I	7.27
NI	8.28
NI	8.28
NI	8.28
12.60	12.85
8.53	8.78
7.22	7.43
7.48	7.69
8.53	8.78
8.53	8.78
8.53	8.78
WAGE SCHEDULE B
DEPARTMENT TITLE & OCCUPATION
CLASSIFICATION INCENTIVE OR	BASE RATES EFFECTIVE
______________ NON-INCENTIVE SEPT. 1/91 SEPT. 1/92 MAR. 1/93
DYEHOUSE Apprentice Dyer
Shift Dyer Development Dyer BOARDING Boarder
Toepunch/Turn Service Operator
Start			NI
After	6 months		NI
After	12	months	NI
After	18	months	NI
After	24	months	NI
After	30	months	NI
After	36	months	SALARY
SALARY
I
I
NI
9.14	9.39	9.64
9.54	9.79	10.04
9.94	10.19	10.44
10.34	10.59	10.84
10.74	10.99	11.24
11.14	11.39	11.64
11.54	11.79	12.04
12.10	12.35	12.60
7.14	7.35	7.56
7.01	7.22	7.43
8.28	8.53	8.78
FINISHING Pair, Trim, & Inspect
I
7.01	7.22	7.43
Boxing Cleaning Service Operator
I
NI
NI
7.01
7.90
8.28
7.22
8.15
8.53
7.43
8.40
8.78
WAGE SCHEDULE B
DEPARTMENT TITLE & OCCUPATION
CLASSIFICATION
DETAILS
INCENTIVE OR	BASE RATES EFFECTIVE
NON-INCENTIVE SEPT. 1/91 SEPT. 1/92 MAR.1/93
SUPER- Janitor/Recelver INTENDENCE
Maintenance Helper
MAIN-
TENANCE
. Maint.
Maintenance Mechanic
Maintenance Helper
Maintenance Helper General Service
(part-time)
expected average apprenticeship period is 2 years
Class C class B class A
start
Worked aggregate of 8 weeks
workedl aggregate of 12 weeks
Part-time students
NI	8.72	8.97
NI	8.27	8.52
NI	8.63	8.88
NI	8.74	8.99
NI NI NI	10.01 10.39 10.89	10.26 10.64 11.14
NI	8.27	8.52
NI	8.33	8.58
NI	8.40	8.65
NI	8.27	8.58
NI	8.72	8.97
9.22
8.77
9.13
9.24
10.51
10.89
11.39
8.77
8.83 8.90
8.83 9.22
Janitor
start
WAGE SCHEDULE B
DEPARTMENT TITLE & OCCUPATION
CLASSIFICATION
DETAILS
INCENTIVE OR	BASE RATES EFFECTIVE
NON-INCENTIVE SEPT. 1/91 SEPT. 1/92 MAR.1/93
RECEIVING,
SHIPPING,
STORES	Receiver & Stock Control				N I	9.05	9.30	9.55
DESIGN & DEV' T	Samples				N I	8.28	8.53	8.78
WAREHOUSE	Warehouseperson	Start			NI	8.46	8.71	8.96
		After	320	hours	N I	8.57	8.82	9.07
		After	480	hours	N I	8.68	8.93	9.18
	Lead Hand	Start			NI	*8.85	*9.10	*9.35
	(^includes lead hand	After	320	hours	NI	*8.95	*9.20	*9.45
	bonus of 25 cents)	After	480	hours	N I	*9.15	*9.40	*9.65
•43
SCHEDULE C LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Subject - Layoffs Caused by Emergency Conditions
This letter of agreement is jointly approved by all concerned parties who have agreed that layoffs caused by emergency conditions will be handled as follows:
1.	The employee whose operation (machine or set of machines) is affected will be permitted to bump the junior employee in the same occupation irrespective of the junior's shift (days, afternoons, or nights).
2.	If, after five (5) working days, all employees affected by the emergency condition have not returned to their own shift, they will be required to exercise their seniority in accordance with clause 14.03. An extension of time may be agreed to by the parties if circumstances warrant.
3.	In the event an employee would be faced with working two consecutive shifts either through the bumping procedure as a result of the emergency condition ot at the time of recall to his o m position, The company and union agree than in such a situation the employee will not work a double shift - there must be a minimum of eight (8) consecutive hours from the conclusion of one shift and the start of the next.
4.	When a "two consecutive shift” situation arises, the employee must take a layoff for the second shift and the second shift's production will be assigned to the junior employee who was bumped by the senior.
5.	In certain instances an employee may be required to work two Shifts in one calendar day with eight (8) consecutive hours between the shifts (e.g. -11 p.m. to 7 am then 3 p.m. to 11 p.m). When this condition arises, the company will not be required to pay overtime for the normal working hours of either of these shifts.
6.	If complications arise following the administration of the above clauses, the parties will meet to resolve these problems and amend this letter of agreement for future application. There will, however, be no retroactive adjustments.
This agreement made and entered into as of the 18th day of September, 1986.
•44'
SCHEDULE C LETTER OF AGREEMENT
subject - Boarding Department * Overtime
It is agreed and understood between the parties that when overtime is required, it shall be distributed equally between the employees. Overtime will be offered starting with the most senior employee and proceeding in turn down the seniority list. Once an employee has had an opportunity to work overtime, that employee's name shall be placed at the bottom of the seniority list. The second most senior name would then appear at the top of the list. The process would continue until the most senior employee's name appears at the top of the list again which would have given each employee an opportunity to work overtime. The process would then be repeated.
An ''opportunity" means that an employee has been offered the chance to work overtime, whether the employee accepts the overtime or not.
It is further understood between the parties that overtime when required for weekends and holidays shall be by seniority as outlined in Article 8.
This agreement made and entered into as of the 18th day of August, 1988.
-45-
SCHEDULE C
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
The company and the union have agreed to implement the provisions outlined below on a twelve month trial basis. The trial period will begin after the date of contract ratification as soon as the systems required to meet these provisions have been set up. The union will he informed as to the exact date of the beginning of the trial period.
1.	New hires into the occupation of knitter will be paid at 90% of base rate during their probationary period, followed by payment at base rate until they establish a three month average.
2.	Employees who enter the occupation of knittr through a job posting will be paid at their previous hourly rate or average until they establish a new average.
3.	Present knitters and new knitters (once they have established an average) will be paid at the greater of their three month average or base rate for all hours worked during the trial period. These averages will be updated as described in part 4 below.
4.	The daily performance of all knitters will be calculated on the incentive system as in the past, resulting in the regular updating of their three month averages. With each update of the averages, each knitter's rate of pay will be updated.
5.	Knitters will run their machines to the end of their shift. Part dozens produced will not be counted and will be left for the knitter on the next shift.
6.	The method of determining the machine loading will remain as bef ore.
7.	The company will monitor individual and departmental productivity, efficiency, and quality, and will meet with the knitters on a monthly basis to discuss the results of such monitoring.
8.	The union reserves the right to set up meetings with the company to discuss any concerns or problems encountered during the trial period and/or to discuss alternative solutions.
-46'
9.	The decision as to whether to go permanently with the above provisions or to revert to the previous incentive system will be at the total discretion of the company. In making the decision, the company will consider a number of factors including individual and departmental productivity, efficiency, and quality. Such decision will be made at the end of the trial period. However, the company reserves the right to revert to the incentive system at any time during the trial period should the monitoring of the above parameters so warrant. Also the company reserves the right to extend the length of the trial period should it be determined that the twelve month period was not long enough to fully assess the impact of the above provisions.
This agreement made and entered into as of the 1st day of September, 1991.
•47-
SCHEDULE C
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
The company and the union have agreed to the provisions outlined below.
1.	As of the date of ratification of this collective agreement, local 986T and the former local 1300 are deemed to have been merged. The collective agreement for local 1300 has ceased to exist.
2.	No jobs are to be posted as a direct result of the merger, and the incumbents in all jobs retain their positions. There is no change in the seniority status of employees as a direct result of the merger.
3.	Persons who are on the warehouse recall list as of the date of ratification:
(a)	retain the right to be recalled to full-time permanent warehouse positions only, provided that they are able to perform the work available. This right expires two years from the date of last layoff.
(b)	have no recall or bumping rights into non-warehouse positions.
(c)	will be deemed to be new employees (i.e.	- no recognition of
previous seniority) if hired by the company into non-warehouse positions.
4.	Any temporary warehouse vacancy which provides thirty or fewer consecutive days of work will be filled by making a temporary transfer as per Article 12, or by hiring a new temporary employee.
5.	Full-time warehouse vacancies will be posted only if they arise after all recall rights of people on the warehouse recall list have expired. Employees from all departments will be able to apply for such postings subject to the terms of Article 14.
6 . Bumping rights between warehouse and non-warehouse jobs and vice versa will be recognized only after the recall rights of all persons on the warehouse recall list have expired.
7.	One person will be selected by the warehouse employees to hold a position on the local executive conunittee until September 1993.
-40-
8, In case# of matters relating to the Berger which are not covered * by the muprovisions, or setters where the interpretation of these provisions ia unolear, the conpany and the union will meet with the purpose c£ resolving the Batters by rrutual agreesent.
This agreement Bade and entered into as ctf the 1st day of septenber 1991.