
00907 (04)
INDEX
Arlir-l* 1 .mVFRAfiP. 	 	 	2	
Article II - RECOGNITION			2
Article III -SENIORITY AND PROBAT! Article IV - UNION SECURITY		JNARY PERIOD	3 	4
Article V - WAGES			4
Article VI -H 0 0 R S OF WORK AND 0\ Article VII - EQUAL DIVISION OF WOl Article VIII - VACATIONS		ERTIME		9 K	-	10 	14
Article IX - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS ..		15
Article X - B EREAVEMENT			17
Article X! - JURY DUTY				18
Article XII * EMPLOYEE WELFARE			19
Article XIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE			20
Article XIV - DISCHARGES			22
Article XV - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURf Article XVI - STRIKES, STOPPAGES A! Article XVII - EXISTING PLANT PR AC Article XVIII - MANAGEMENT RIGHT: Article XIX - TERMS OF AGREEMENT SCHEDULE "A" 1994 - 1996		AND ARBITRATION ..23 ID LOCKOUTS	25 'ICES	25 	26
		27
srHFnm.F **R*'			29
SCHEDULE "C*			31
SCHEDULE *‘D”			31
I.FTTFR OF UNDERSTANDING			32
COST OUTLINE FOR GOVERNMENT. T.RTTFR OF UNDERSTANDING			33
		34
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT		
Agreement made as of the fourth (4tl > THE ARROW COMPANY a divisio
day cf April 1094, between of CLUBTT, PEABODY
CANADA INC. (hereinafter referred to WESTERN ONTARIO JOINT BOARD, INGANDTEXTILEWORKERSUNION
as the “Company”) and the 4MALOAMATED CLOTH-LOCAL303A KITCHENER
(hereinafter collectively referred to as the
‘Union”).
It is the intent and purpose oftheCoi Agreement shall promote and improve irn ships between the Cbmpany and itsempl withrespect towages, hours of work, and e
ipany and the Union that this istrial and economic relation-yees and set forth provisions nditions of employment of the
Article !• COVERAGE
The term “Employee" or “Empl means all of the bargaining unit empli the Trillium Drive Warehouse.
jyees” as used in this Agreement lyees at the Benton Street Plant and
Excluding executives, supervisor; fessional employees, quality inspec employees, security employees, cal (l employees, clerical and olTice emplo h a managerial function or employed ii
Those employees who are Includ at the effective date of this Agreement and those who are not so covered sha'
In the event that Cluctt, Peabody Street Plant orthe Trillium Drive wan Province of Ontario, the Company applicable laws of the Province of Or they will consult with the Union, as
Wherever the masculine gender a construed as meaning male or female,
employees,experimental and pro-ors,. technical and administrative teria employees, company store ees or other employees exercising a confidential capacity.
d in the collective bargaining unit shall be covered by theAgreement I be excluded from the Agreement
Canada Inc. relocates the Benton dtouse to another location within the :grees that they will abide by the tario governing relocation and that the process of the relocation.
(pears in this Agreement it shall be i, unless the context of the relative
Article II. RECOGNITION
A)	The Company recognizes the representative of its employees as de wages, hours and working condition
B)	The Company shall recognize of the employee as the Union may el and theUnion President shall be sen The Union will provide the Compi representatives.
Union as the exclusive bargaining loed in Article I, with reference to
Any Union representative shall designated official of the Company, including any of the work rooms, dui of investigating any grievance, or tion, interpretation, application or Agreement. Union representative or
di pi
and deal with such representatives ltd or appoint. All Union Stewards ority employees of the Company, ny with a list of all local Union
upon obtaining permission of the have the right to enter either plant if ng working hours, for the purpose ute arising out of the administra-eged violation of the terms of the enresentatives in performing such
i
duties, shall not interrupt or delay product any Union representatives and any group Company’s premises during working hou the Company.
on. Any conference between of employees, if held on the s, shall first be arranged with
C)	TheCompany agrees tomakeavail such payroll records, production records, mcnls records as the Union may reasonabl itsdutiesasthe collective bargaining agen this Agreement.
ble to the union, uponrequest, methods or sequence of ele-require in the performance of fortheemployeescovered by
D)	The union shall have the right to plisl notices on n bulletin board or boards, provided such notices first are lubmitted to the Company for approval. The Company agrees that appri|vul shall not unreasonably be
F) Supervisors and Floor Persons shi II not perform work normally done by bargaining unit employees excepi for the purpose of instructing, training, repairs, fault correction or servii ing work to employees in the temporary absence of service personnel. E tceptionsmayolsobemadein cases of emergency or when no bargaining unit employee is available.
Article III - SENIORITY AND PROBATIONARY PERIOD
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
A) All new employees shall serve a p working days. In exceptional cases, the upon notice to the Union, to extend 1 additional period, not to exceed twenty (
Alt probationary employees will be performance standards that are establishe
rhbationa y period of sixty (60) l ompany shall have the right, probat onary period for on JO) working days.
th:
Li:
B) The Company shall inform the hired and employees whose services havt
C) It will be the policy of the Com >any to give consideration in employment to such qualified and satisfaejory workers as the Union may
refer to the Company.
required to meet or exceed I by the Company.
lion as to all new employees been terminated.
SENIORITY
A) An employee shall loose all seniority for any of the following:
1)	if hc/she voluntarily resigns o -retires.
2)	if he/she is terminated for j^st cause and is not subsequently reinstated.
3)	if he/she is laid off oton an appfuved leave of absence, for a period exceeding one <1)year.
Article IV - UNI0N SECURITY
A) Membership in the Union st|all be required as a condition of employment of each employee.
members or hereinafter become idition of continued employment ing the term of this Agreement.
t, as instructed by the Union, from
B)	All employees who are now members of the Union shall, as a ci remain members in good standing dufi
C)	The Company agrees to deducjt, the wages of each of its employees,» ho are members of the bargaining unit and who have authorized the sam< ,the prescribed dues, commencing the first (1st) day of employment,and|t to the Union.
to remit the same once each month
Article V • WAGES
A) Wages shall be paid in accord u work rates as outlined in Schedule "A Minimum starting wage rate for piect the minimum wage as required by Pi in an individual time rate or piece rate, of the parties. It is understood thatinc be necessary due to changes in Pro\ maintain adequate incentive pull. It I: may be made by mutual agreement respect to piece-work rates and wages to the Union, will be kept confidenti:
B) Rates for new operations, c: (ions shall be set by the Company.
ha in
R ii
by the Company and shall beconsiderldtemoorary fora maximum period
ince with time work rates orpiece-, and piece-work minimum rates, -work employees shall be equal to rkvincial Legislation. Any changes shall be made by mutual agreement eases in piece-work base rates may incial minimum rates, in order to also understood that such changes <}f the parties. Any information in which is supplied by the Company 1 between the parties concerned.
iged operations or changed condi-ites for new equipment shall be set
4
of six ('^months. During which time till to modify or change the rate. After the pet of a rate shall not be done except by milt
Company shall have the right od of six (djmonths, changing a! agreement.
Both parties agree that the new rate st) questions the new rates, they may takd grievance. The rate shall be set as soon at outlined inSchedule“A” which isupplie for which the rate istoheset. Intheevenll equalificalionsofthejob have changed, a newjob grouping will berrt4ually decided on between the Company and the Union.
uld be tried. If the Union then p the matter in the form of a practical using the base rate as ble to the particularjob group
C)
1.	The Company Bnd the Union agrel that a new operation, changer operation, or a changed condition may tei tporarily affect an employee’i earnings while in the process of leamii g and adjusting thereto. Thi Company therefore agrees that In the ab ence of a retraining incentivt they will pay to the affected employee, hii average hourly rale as definct in Section “H" until a new piece rate is fixed in accordance wit) Subparagraph B of Article V. Further, the said average hourly rate of thi affected employee shall be guaranteed fo a period tobemutually agreet upon. In the alternative, the company t lay use a retraining incentivt which shall be so fixed as to enable the en ployee reasonably to maintaii the earnings level as outlined in Schedule "A" forajob grouping which he is in the processof learning and/or adjuring o new operation, changed operation or changed condition.
2.	Production standards will be esta jusned on all incentive opera tions so that a qualified, experienced opelator, working at a piece-worl incentive pace will have earnings opportuiity of at least 130% of the bast
rate.
3.	Upon conclusion of a time stucK and before the time stud; observer leaves the operation, he will, if requested, supply in writing to thi
operator the following:
a)	the exact total time over which th time study took place:
b)	the exact time (minus strike-outs) of the time study;
c)	the effort rating per element, if usgd;
d)	the number of pieces studied 5
4. If an employee increases his effort on the prescribed method and c Quality requirements of the operatia
All methods, (including new or Management or bargaining unit emp Company. If a new method is consid ei the Engineering Department, all en retrained under the new method and will apply. All new or changed metho 1: Quality requirement of the operation I.
red to be a “trainable” method by ployees on the operation will be a Maintenance of Earnings policy s must meet the Health, Safety and
5. Employees shall receive a cc tions made by the supervisor on em working day of the changes being mi
dpy and explanation of any correc-iloyee's time cards within one (1) de.
6. The Company agrees that earnings during a time study provide d their usual skill and effort during the
employee will suffer a loss of that the employee demonstrates study.
D) TEMPORARY TRANSFER
I, If an employee is temporarily tion to another job or operation at the
transferred from one job or opera-request of the Company and there is work available on hisjob or operatic n. he shall while working on thejob or operation to which he has been trar sferred, be paid his current average
hourly rate as defined in Section “H’,< on the operation, whichever is greate r.
2. If the employee is temporarily hisjob or operation to anotherjob or on that job or operation, be paid his timeworkers, he shall be paid his tin
fthis Article, or piece rate earnings
transferred, due to lack of work on operation, he shall, while working iverage hourly rate. In the case of work rate.
E)	PERMANENT TRANSFER
t. If thejob or operation ceases th exist, the employee may be placed in any open position, apply for a Job posting, exercise his right to Bump another employee, or accept layoff.
2. A piece-worker will be paid iiece-work earnings if requested to do his job or operation on another pri duct. Earnings will be included in the calculation of the employee’s average hourly rate.
fi
3.	If an employee is permanently trattfened at his request to another job or operation he will be paid at a rate Jf half the amount between the employee's average hourly rate and the earning level of the newjob or the employee’s average hourly rate, whichejer is lower, until a retraining
program can be set.
4.	If an employee is permanently Iransferred at the Company’s request to another job or operation, he willhe paid his average hourly rate until a retraining program can be set Thaemployee will receive written notice of the transfer from the company i]t least five (5) days before the transfer is effective.
S.	An employee permanently transtarreu to a time work operation shall he paid the time work rate of the aj propriate time work category,
based on their service with the company.
6.	An employee transferring from samejob or operation, shall retain his cu
e (I) shift to another, on the ent average hourly rate.
F)	MINIMUM RATES
Minimum rates are those that are in existence at the present time as outlined in Schedule “A”.
G)	REPORTING FOR WORK
Employees who report for work at thlir regular starting time, in the absence of notice from the Company, to th| contrary.orat such other hour designated by the Company, shall be paidlthcir established time or piece rate eamingsfor all work performed between the hour they report For work and the hour they are dismissed, hut in no |vcnt shall they be paid for less than:
1. In the case of regular shift emplofees, first (1 stjshift or second (2nd) shift, four (4)hours.
2. In the case of evening shift definition of Evening Shift as outlined in
enjp
loyees, two (2) hours. The Article VI.
This clause shall not apply in the ever: causes over which the Company las no cjttrol, ees to report to work shall he considered hasnocontrol onlyilanyemergency arise: he lias taken adequate steps to train and pro employees shall be paid their average plant, whether they work or not, until such
she ti
of power failure, fire or other . Failure of other employ-tusc over which the Company sjwhich he could not foresee and ide relief workers. Exceptthat rly rate while they are in the me as they are told to go home.
An employeepaid on aplece-wc work, for any reason shall be compen defined in Section "H" for all such fifteen (15)minutes per day, Any em] for work, shall on each separate occi supervisor immediately. Payment fo times as is approved by the supervis
k basis who is required to wait for iled at his Average Hourly Rate, as ailing time in excess of a total of oyee who finds it necessary to wait don, punch his card and notify his waiting time shall cover only such
If an employee can be assignci Company will waive the fifteen (15; employee will demonstrate seasonal:
other work temporarily then the minute deduction. The transferred e effort on the new operation.
Machine breakage will be paid * approved by the Supervisor. If a sir ployee may be temporarily iransfem B to that machine and will work on a piece-work basis.
Average Hourly Rate for all time ilar machine is available, the em-
The company may assign other\ prie to the employee while waiting forthe machine to be repaired. Thetra sferred employcewill demonstrate reasonable effort on the new operati ]p.
Average hourly rate shall mea working on a time work basis, where rate. It is the employee’s straight ti available period not including time this rate being adjusted to give effec operation (resulting from any adjusti mencement of the period), Average t basis. The new average will beissuei day of March, the last day of June, tf day of December and will be comp previous quarterly calendar period
me rare paid to piece-workers, re terms of this contract call forthis ne average rate earned for the last rarked at the minimum guarantee, l to any change in earnings on the lent in piece-work rates after com-tes will be computed on a quarterly as of the closest Monday of the last i last day of September and the last ted on applicable earnings for the Any wage adjustments will be
Article VI • HOURS OFWORjC AND OVERTIME
A)	HOURS OF WORK
Regular hours of work for all employtN shall be forty (40) hours per week, from Monday to Friday inclusive. I
1st Shift: 7:00a.m.to3:30p.m.tMdltlay throughFriday with a half hour unpaid lunch break.
2nd Shift: When a second shift is rtf|llin!d the hours will be established,
Any change inthc above schedule will he mutual ly ngreed upon by the Company and the Union.
B)	OVERTIME
Overtime will be paid at the rate of tilne and ont half (I 1/2) for all hours worked over eight (8) hours on a|ty regulaij workday. Monday through Friday, as noted in A) above.
Overtime will be paid at the rate of line ana oneinatt (I I/2X) forall hours worked on a Saturday.
Ovettime will be paid at the rate of worked on a Sunday or on a Holiday as
t ouble timfc (2X) for alt hours in Article IX.
n tied i
In the event that janitors or other cm] Sunday or a Holiday as part of their regulaTl will work at their regular rate of pay with
i| loyees work on a Saturday or ly scheduled work week, they no overtime.
There shall be no pyramiding of overtiipe orof premium pay underthe
provisions of this contract.
C)	CALCULATING OVERTIME PA
Overtime premium pay shall be ealeu
1)	In the case of an hourly rated established hourly rate at the time such o
2)	In the case of a piece-work emplo hourly rate as defined in Article V, Secli
|:a in tne following manner:
ployee,: at the employee's :ime was worked.
, at the employee's average
9
An employee who leaves the wor back to work on an emergency basis pr scheduled shift will be paid three (3)131 first (1st) hour worked. For all time emergency, he will receive pay at two
place and is subsequently called orto but not contiguous to his next urs pay at his regular rate forthe n excess of one (I) hour on this (2)times his regular hourly rate.
NOTE: This will not apply to previously arranged overtime Article VII- EQUAL DIVISION OF WORK
A) Whenever there is a temporary
(less than the equivalent of one werk's work for one employee) the
Company will poll the employees on tl providing there is another position or mine if anyone would volunteer to ace position. If no one opts for a transfer opening to transfer to, then the shortage of work will be resolved as in “B)".
snortage of work on an operation
at operation, in order of seniority, opening in another area, to deter-pt a temporary transfer to another or if there is no other position or
B) Whenever there is a temporary (where the shortage is known to be week's work for one (I) employee) employees on that operation to delem
shortage of work on an operation it least the equivalent of one (I) the Company agrees to poll the
1)	ifsomeonewishesa short term pyon (minimum of one (1) week);
2)	if someone would like to useiP some earned vacation;
3)	if employees would prefer to share the available work and expe-
10
If no one opts for 1 or 1 and 3 is not inanimous, the Company will investigate the possibility of transferringlthe least senior employee to another operation, if available. If no ajemate position is available, temporary layoff may be required.
C) JOB ELIMINATION
l) The Company will make every rerjsonable effort to reassign any employee whosejob is eliminated, due too Jerstaffing or when a complete operation is eliminated due to any change. Ilie employee(s)will be offered anyjobs which areavailable at the time of Jsplacement oranyjobs which are known to be coming available in the neal future, provided theyareable to adequately perform, in a competent manner, the jub or operation.
If a single job is eliminated, the person viih the least seniority on that
operation will be transferred to an availabli
the Company, providing the employee can adequately perform thejob or operation in a competent manner. If a cor plete operation is eliminated, the selection of available jobs will be ipvcmed by seniority in that operation.
job or operation identified by
If an employee is transferred at his owJ request to another operation, he relinquishes his right to return to anybf his previous jobs, until an opening occurs.
D) BUMPING RIGHTS
If the employee does not accept anyior the jobs offered, lie may exercise his right to bump another employe.
1) Theemployeemay bump the lo—„ rerson onthescnioriiy list in that department provided that they are abfe to adequately perform, in a competent manner, the new job or operation.
2) Ifan employee is bumped by a more still employees with less seniority in the d so displaced may use the bumping proced
senior employeeand there are ipartment, then the employee ire as described in (2) above.
J) Bumping will not be mandatory fr >m one (I) shift to another
4) TheCompanystillretainstheright j promote or transfer employees to jobs that become vacant through a" i'*""
II
5) Any piece-work employees!3 has bumped another piece-work employee will be paid at a rate of halft >e amount between the employee’s average hourly rate and the earning lev el ofthenewjoborthe employee’s average hourly rate, whichever is lower, until a retraining program can be set.
6) Any piece-workemployee whp timeworkemployeewhobumpsiinoth one(l) step below the timework category,which most closely matcher rate or timework rate before transfer,
bumps a timework employee ora r timeworkemployee shall be paid ‘ate of the appropriate timework i their established average hourly forthirty (30) days.
7) Anyone who is bumped into a lower category timeworkjob will be paid the top rate of the newj ob provided that person qualifies for the top rate based on length of service.
NOTE:	For the purpose of this|anicle, departments are defined as
follows:
Layoffs and recall to work ahe; working days or less) will be by opcr be governed by the employee’s plant
Layoffs and recall to work from at working days or more) will be on Employees will retain recall rights f< entitled to their previousjob orasiini accept or decline one other available!)
a temporary layoff (twenty (20) tlon or similar operation and shall seniority within that operation.
Indefinite Layoff (twenty one (21) he basis of plant wide seniority, r a period of one year and will be arjoborthey will have the right to job.
This provision is subject to the red uirement that the senior employee possesses sufficient skill and ability to satisfactorily perform the work to be done.
Wherever possible the most semqr employee shall be the last person
The Company agrees to extend a f seniority, to re-employ employees who h one (1) year. Thestatusofsuchre-employ by the Union and the Company.
An employee who accepts recall to« start at a rate of half the amount between rate and the earning level of the newj ob or rate, whichever is lower, until a retrainin
Anemployeewho accepts recall toadi at the time work rate of thejob based on t)
eference in accordance with ve been laid off for more than d personsshall be agreed upon
different piece-work job will leemployee’saverhge hourly he employee's average hourly program can he established.
ferentTimeworWobwill start :ir service with the Company.
When additionaljobs are created orv Company shall post such jobs forforty-ei be given a copy of thejob postings prior
ten a job becomes vacant, the ht (48) hours. The Union will o the posting.
The posting shall contain thejob title, |he rate of pay, the department and a brief description of thejob duties.
Job applicants must have been emph least twelve (12) months. The senior i posting time period, who possesses suffio the work to be done, shall be given the jc
yed with the Company for at nployee applying within the snt skill and ability to perform
The successful applicant applying transferred at a rate of half the amount be hourly rate and the earning level of the nev hourly rate, whichever is lower.
>r a piece-work job will be ween the employee's average job or the employee's average
The successful applicant applying pr a time wurk job will be transferred to thejob at the time work ratebased on their service with the Company.
A successful applicant cannot apply ft (12) months from the date of the previou
'anotherposted job for twelve transfer.
Jobs, which become vacant as a result.
fatransferdueto posting, will
13
Article VIII. VfcrATIONS
ELIGIBILITY FOR VACATION
1)	All employees will beeligiblefor vacation pay as per ScheduIeC.
2)	Vacation pay will be based or the period from July 1 to June 30. All wages earned in that time period, including vacation pay will
be the base for vacation pay.
3) Wage loss due to an approved the period will be added to the base
For apiece worker, Workers’Con)| on the employee’saverage hourly injury; foratimeworker, the W.C.B. rate the employee was paid at the link hours only will be used for this calcu
Workers’ Compensation Claim in vacation pay calculations.
fir
pensation equivalent will be based (Article V, Sec.H) at the time of e [uivalent will be the regular hourly e of the injury. Regular working ation.
4) Any employee leaving the ei paid vacation pay due to them at vacation pay already paid to them in
injployment of the company will be leir eligible percentage, less any he vacation year.
5)	Any employee who has reach hire: -five years, ten years, twenty yei rs, thirty years or thirty five years, betweenJuly I and December 31, wil be eligible for an additional 2% on their anniversary date and will be eli; vacation, which must be taken prior year.
6)	Payment of vacation pay will pe the pay period preceding scheduled vacation.
sd, on the anniversary day of their
;ible to take an additional week of to December 31st of the vacation
7) The vacation period for week I and August 30th and shall be design; period for week three will be between other time as may be mutually agreec
one and two will be between July ited by the Company. Thevacation Ihristmas and New Years or at such upon.
8) Employees eligibleforfour.fipe.sixorseven weeks vacation will select vacation weeks in orderof job s< niority. Lists of eligible employees will be posted during the first week < f January. All eligible employees must choose their vacation time by Fel ruary 1 .The Company reserves the right to make adjustments when neces ;ary. Any request forchanges after April 1 can only be made if the Compiny agrees and if no other employee is affected, regardless of seniority.
14
9) An employee with vacation enlittmcnl beyond four weeks may request to rot take the 5th, 6th, or 7th wt eks as time off. Permission to work these weeks would be granted, i employee would receive vacation pay du
worked.
work was available and the to them plus pay for the week
10) If a Statutory Holiday iswitmna^acation week, an extra day may be scheduled, subject to 2) above.
Vacation pay as defined in Article ''fill. Section A will be paid to employees, who have achieved the following seniority, as of June 30th in
the year		
NUMBER OF YEARS OF SERVICE	VACATION PAYMENT	VACATION TIME ALLOWED
Less than l year	4 %	week
1 year	4 %	weeks
5 years	6%	weeks
10 years	8 %	weeks
20 years	10%	weeks
30 years	12%	weeks
35 years	14%	weeks
Vacations of employees with less tl|an two (2)years of service are subject to Provincial Regulations, as dueled in the Employment Standards Act.
Article IX . STATUTOltY HOLIDAYS
A)	Employees, excluding probationary employees who have not worked for three(3)calendar months, shall be paid forthe followingnine (9) statutory holidays, subject to the projisiotis sei forth in this article.
New Years Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Ray Thanksgiving Day Christinas Day Boxing Day
15
B)	In addition, three (3) floating I olidays will be taken in the year. The three days will be decided by muti al agreement of the Company and the Union by October 15th of the previous year.
C)	Should any holiday(s) fall on ^Saturday or Sunday, an alternate day will be designated by mutual agreement of the Union and the Company in the week either prccedinfor following that holiday.
D)	Qualifying employees shall tie paid for each of the specified holidays, in the pay period they occur. For time rated employees; the pay for holidays shall be the individual employee's current hourly rate times their regular scheduled hours of work. In the case of piece rate employees, the pay for each holiday shall be the ind vidua! employee's average hourly rate as defined in Article V, Section H, tjimes their regular scheduled hours of work.
In the case of an employee who should formally scheduled by the Company to scheduled hours of work on the day t employee shall receive as his holiday have received had he worked such scl
work more or less than the regular n which the holiday occurs, such
pay the amount of pay he would :l cduled hours.
E)	An employee will not qualify or Holiday Pay if the employee:
I.	Has been employed for less th{tn three (3) calendar months from
date of hire.
2,	Has been absent from work diking the entire week in which the paid holiday occurs, unless such abseijce is caused by layoff or personal illness certified by a doctor’s certificate.
3.	Is absent from work because not worked the entire two weeks prdci holiday occurs plus the entire week du ii
4.	Has not worked the last regula the holiday or the first regularscheduli
There will be no exceptions to nu
Exceptions to4, will be granted ifi u regular scheduled day of work precec ii scheduled day of work following the
layoff or personal illness but has eding the week in which a paid ng which the paid holiday occurs.
scheduled day of work preceding d day of work following a holiday.
nber 1,2,or 3.
ie employee isoff work on the last mg the holiday or the first regular ioliday for “reasonable cause”.
To verify reasonable cause, the employee must have an approved leave of absence from the Company, ijhe leave of absence will be granted 16
for:
-personal Illness of the employee. [The Company may request a
doctor's certificate or other adequate prqpf,
-serious illness in the immediate fami^, supported by adequate proof, -death of a member in the family as defined by Article X.
-other approved Company leaves of 4rsence that are prior approved.
In the event that two (2) or more consecutive holidays are being observed, an employee who failsto quail y for payment because they are absent without reasonable cause on one of the regular scheduled days, either before or after the holidays in ques ion shall lose payment for only one (I) of the paid holidays being obser ed. If they are absent without reasonable cause on the regular sched led day before and after the holidays in question they will lose pay tent for all of the holidays in question.
Article X. BEREAVEMENT
Paid bereavement leave is designed tb assist an employee who has a death in the family and who otherwise would lose earnings of regular hoursof work as outlined in Article VI. Fj>r this reason, bereavement pay is not allowed if the employee is absent from work for any other, reason.
An employee requesting paid Bereavement Leave must have the request approved by their supervisorandHuman Resources and submit satisfactory evidence of the death to the fompany, upon request.
For the purpose of clarification, theer ILY shall include ail previous relations relationships but it does not include prevjt includestep/half and adopted relationshi
ployee's IMMEDIATE FAM-ty marriage and common-law us in-law relationships. It does
A)	In the event of the death in the en ILY, which for the purpose of this Articl
(ployee’s IMMEDIATEFAM-includes:
SPOUSE, COMMON-LAW SPOUSE, CHILDREN, FATHER, MOTHER.
the employee shall be entitled to a pa|J bereavement leave of FOUR
(4) working days.
17
B)	In the event of the death in thehmployee's IMMEDIATE FAM ILY which for the purpose of this Ariirle includes:
BROTHER, SISTER.
the employee shall be entitled to a ibid bereavement leaveof THREE (3) working days.
C)	In theeventoflhedealhinlhe employee's FAMILY, which for the purpose of this article includes:
GRANDPARENT, GRANDCHILDREN, FATHER-IN-
LAW, MOTHER-IN-LAW IN-LAW, SON-IN-LAW. PARENTS-IN-LAW,
BROTHER-IN-LAW, SISTER-3AUGHTER-IN-LAW, GRAND
the employee shall be entitled to paid bereavement leave of up to
THREE (3) working days, withamini working days between the death or no funeral.
num of ONE (1) working day, for ice of death and the day after the
Employees unable to attend the tuneral because of distance, will be granted paid bereavement leave of on^ (I) day, that being the day of the funeral.
D)	If the funeral of a family member or immediate family member occurs out of province and the emph yee is attending the funeral, the employee will be allowed one TO tra allowed in A), B),orC), if the second day.
rel day, additional to those days day after the funeral is a working
E)	If a death occurs in the fam employee is not notified ofthedeathun theemployee will be granted paid beret vi the day of notification or the day after
y or immediate family and the after the funeral has taken place, ement leave of one( 1) day. either notification.
Article XI-JUjlY DUTY
If an employee is to be absent from work because he is called for Jury
Duty or who is summoned and reports by applicable Ontario Law, theCompa the difference between his average ho
the amount the court pays him forap earing.
as a Crown Witness as prescribed y will reimbursetheemployee for ly rate for the time he is away and
18
Ill order to qualify, an employee mu: necessary receipts showing the amount p
t supply the Company with the id to the employee by the court.
For probationary employees this payi lent will be made upon completion of the probationary period and attainment of seniority status.
Article XII - EMPLOYfE WELFARE
A. INSURANCE
I) An employee qualifies for the behefits outlined in Schedule UB” after completing six (6) months employment.
10%) of the cost of Extended he cost of Weekly Indemnity any pays ninety percent (90%) Insurance.
2) The employee pays ten percent Health Care and ten percent (10%) of coverage as a payroll deduct ion. The Con pi of these costs plus the cost of Group Lif '
3)	All employees who retire under the provision of the ACTWU RETIREMENT FUND shall be entitle i to the Group Life Insurance coverage as outlined in Schedule"!)".
4)	The Company will maintain fun ucncfits as defined in Schedule “B" for all employees who are on an approved leave of absence for a maximum of one year.
B) RETIREMENT
All employees shall retire at agesixl^nve (65). However, working extensions may be granted on a year to y$ if basis provided agreement has been reached between the Company an< the Union as to their working status. Only underexceptional circumsp tees will extensions be granted after the employee's seventieth (70th) bflhday.
C) RETIREMENT FUND
I) The Company agrees to pay thnie percent (3%) of all earnings accrued (less vacation pay and statutory I oliday pay) of all employees in the bargaining unit, into a Pension Fi nd for those employees. The Memorandum of Agreement. Declarator of Trust and Regulations thereunder as signed by the parties on Februa-y 22nd, 1958 shall henceforth apply, except as amended or supersededjfrom time to time thereafter.
19
Article XHI. LEAVER OF ABSENCE
A) I) PERSONAL ILLNESS 0(R INJURY
A leave of absence shall be granted to a seniority employee upor request if the employee isill ordisablet from performing his regularjob Disability dueto illness shall be certifie Iby adoctor’scertificate from the employee’s personal physician, if retired by the Company,rat the Company’s expense. The Company m ty require the employee to attenc an independent medical examination b 1 a local doctor, at the Company'! expense, at sometime during the disabi ity. Leaves of absence on accoun of illness are subject to the following < onditions:
a) Seniority employees with less tl; granted a leave of absence for persona leave) up to a maximum of six (6)m< guaranteed for the first (I st) three (3)m guaranteed for the next three (3) montp:
an one (1) year of service shall be illness (not to include maternity nths with the previous job to be mths, and a job of a similar nature s.
b) Seniority employees with more be granted a leave of absence for a maternity leave) of up to a maximum of being guaranteed for the first (1st) six nature guaranteed for the next six (6)
uian one (I) year of service shall perst nal illness (not to include one (I) year with the previousjob (6) months and a job of a similar nonths.
II) ILLNESS OR INJURY IN T
JE IMMEDIATE FAMILY
A leave of absence shall be grant request, ifamember of the employee’s The illness or disability shall be ce employee's family member’s personal Company. Leaves of absence due to illness shall be subject to the foltowin ;
id to t seniority employee upon mmed.ate family isillordisabled. : tilled by a certificate from the physician, if requested by the an immediate family member's conditions:
a) Employees with more than si; granted a leave of absence for illness i maximum of three (3) months with thi
lit) MATERNITY/PARENTAL
A) A non-paid maternity leave o female employee, who has been contir for at least 13 weeks. This leave w seventeen (17) weeks and may begin weeks prior to the expected date of del
(6) months of service shall bt t the immediate family of up to t previousjob being guaranteed.
LEAVE
absence will be granted to any dsously employed by the company II be for a maximum period ol at any time up to seventeen (IT very. Employees must provide s
20
written request to Human Resources at lijist two weeks prior to the start date of the leave.
B) A non-paid parental leave or up lo eighteen (18) weeks may be taken by either the natural mother, the mther or either of the adoptive parents, in the case of adoption. For the natural mother, parental leave must commence after the maternity leav : has been concluded. For the fatheroreither oftheadoptlveparenis.in t le case of adoption, the parental leavetnustcommencewithin thirty fiveC’jjlweeksoftliebirthofthechild or date of adoption of the child.
C) Female employees with at least oi case of their first pregnancy, request an seventeen (!7)weeks. This leave must t two (2) weeks priorto the end of the mat
betaken immediately following the mate lily/parental leaves. The total
amount of leave for those qualifying extended leave described in C) would be (52) weeks.
(1) year of service, may in the Idilionat unpaid leave of up to applied for in writing at least nity/parental leaves and must
r maternity parental and the t to but not exceeding fifty two
The employee’sprevious job shall bs nity and parental leaves, to a max inn Preference would be given in subsequen employee approved for the leave asdetai was not available at the end of this leave
;uatanteed for both the mater-1 of thirty five (35) weeks, hiring to a similarjob for any :d in C), if the employee’sjob
iv) MARRIAGE
Any employee with at least one (I) yfcar's continuous service, upon notice to the company of at least twenti (20) working days, shall be granted special leave, for the purpose jf marriage, of tip to ten (10) working days, without pay.
B) The initial leave of absence for enlbloyees with six (6)months or more of service shall not be more than thrj p (3) months, this leave may be extended foi-additional periods of one (1 ] pnonth each, up to a maximum of one (I) y e a i.
C. It is understood that leaves of abd provided may under certain exceptions Leaves of absence and extensions under t shell be subject to agreement between th
nee and extensions not herein circumstances be necessary, ch exceptional circumstances Company and the Union.
D. Any employee who has been abs return to work.mustbe physically abletoi
lit on account of illness, upon irformtbe work available. The
21
F. Leave of absence without reasonable number of employees elect Union, or as delegates to Union Cot similar functions. Such employees sh; previousjob, operations ormachine up< leave is two (2)weeks or less. In thee weeks for any of the following reasons, to his previousjob and insofar as pi machine. An employee on leave Convention, conference or other sim holiday pay for any holiday which oci
losslof seniority shall be granted to a td to act as representatives of the ventions, conference, and other be reinstated to their respective n return to work, provided that the ent of leave of more than two (2) suchemployeeshall be reinstated t ictical to the same operation or isence as a delegate to a Union tar function shall be entitled to during such leave.
0.	Any employeewho is granted a shall be given a written authorlzatio i authorization shall include the dates d leave of absence. A copy of saidautho :i: within one (I) weekofthegranting oft! leave of absence wishing an extension for such an extension prior to the expi
eave of absence underthis Article thereof by the Company, which the beginning and the end of the ization shall be sent to the Union leaveofabsence. Employeeson must make application in writing ation date of the granted leave of
Article XIV • DISCHARGES
The company retains the right to lischarge for just cause any employee covered by this agreement. Th( Company shall notify the Union of the discharge. Upon receipt of said r atice, the Union shall within three (3) workingdays, present all comp laintjt of alleged discharge withoutjust cause to the Company.
If the complaint cannot be adjusted by mutual agreement, it shall be submitted to arbitration fordeterminat on. The Company shall have the right to submit the disputed discharg : to arbitration at any time after complaint is made by the Unioa
If the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration finds that the employee was discharged without just cause, reinsb»ement may be ordered, and the 22
payment ofbackpay may be required insui warrant. This Article shall not apply to period. Failure of a discharged employee when so ordered by the Company shall regardless of the justice or merits of the di that the employee has the right to file
a i amount as the circumstances an employee during his trial promptly leave the premises n itself constitute just cause charge itself. It is understood evance with the Union.
agi
Article XV - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
A.	Tire Union shall designate a rep esentative (herein called the Business Agent) for each of the plants i f the Company. Such Union representatives need not be an employe: and may participate in the investigation and adjustment of any grieva i A representative of the Company shall m i Business Agent at any stage of the grieva»
B.	Any complaint, grievance or dispi the provisions of this Agreement, or the thereof, shall be taken up for adjustment
1st Between the aggrieved employee
ice arising out of this contract, et and confer with the Union ice procedure.
i te
arising out of or relating to nterpretation or performance the following manner:
and. if he wishes, the depart-
mental Union representative, on the one I tnd, and the supervisor of the department on the otherhand. The supervisor shall give his answer within two (2) working days.
2nd. If the manner is not satisfactorily lidjusted in Step One, the Shop Chairman shall present the written grieva ice to the General Production Manager (Benton St.) or the Manager - Di tribution (Trillium Dr. Warehouse). Thecompanyrepresentativeshall jive his written answerwithin three (3) working days.
3rd. If the matter is not satisfactorily adjusted in Step Two, the Union shall present the grievance to the General Manager, Manufacturing/ Engineering or his designate. The Compajy representative shall give his
answer within five (5| working days.
4th. If the matter is not satisfactoril;
National Officers of the Union or a reprt tentative designated by them
adjusted in Step Three, the
ic executive of the Company II give his answer in writing
shall present the grievance in writing to designated by it for this purpose. He sh within ten (I0) working days.
C. It is agreed that the Company snail nave access to the grievance procedure in the same way as an employe}:.
23
D. ARBITRATION
1.	If the Union and the Company Ire unable to adjust any complaint grlevanceordispute.aslhecasemay be in accordance with the procedure! provided in paragraph “B"of this Article, then the matter shall be referret to arbitration.
2.	Arbitration shall be by an impartial Arbitrator.
a) If an Arbitrator cannot be ugre (1) week after a request therefore, the i bv the Minister of Labour of the Prov
:|:d upon by both parties within ont the Arbitrator shall be appointee nee of Ontario.
b) At an alternative to a Sole Ar lit agree to establish a Three Man Board of a Chairman, who shall be agreed upi manner as the impartial Arbitrator, al chosen by the Union and a represents
c) The compensation and expens s of the impartial Arbitrator or thi
itra or both parties may mutually of /jbitration which shall consist or appointed inexactly thesami provided for, a representativt ive chosen by the Company.
hove
Board of Arbitration shall, in all cases the Company.
d) The decision, order, direction, of Arbitration shall be final, conclusiv Union and the Employees represemer
be borne equally by the Union am
>r award of the Arbitrator or Boart and binding onthe Company, thi by the Union.
3.	The parties consent that any appropriate to initiate or continue an a vacate, or modify an award, may be si the last known address of the Compai
pa| ets or notices necessary or bitri tion hereunder, or to confirm, e pved by registered mail directed to r y and the Union.
4.	The Arbitrator or the Board power to alter any of the terms or substitute any new provisions forany decision inconsistent with the provisi
>f Arbitration shall not have an; provisions of this Agreement o existing provisions, nor to give any )ns hereof.
5.	Either party may call such art days notice by registered mail or two other party. The Arbitrator or Board appropriate by him or them, may call parties consent that arbitration hearinj s Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration sht
6.	In the event that any or either tarty to arbitration shall default ir appearing before the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration, then the proof o! 24
itratitn hearing on giving five (5) (2)dtys notice by telegram to the >f Art itration, however,if deemed aheiring on shorter notice. The sha I be held at such place as the II designate.
the party appearing may be taken and anb decision, order, direction, or award, based thereon.
7.	The procedure established in this/ disputes shall be the exclusive means disputes, including strikes, stoppages, loci except as expressly provided otherwise'
greement for the adjustment of or the determination of such i juts,and actsarisingtherefrom this agreement.
Article XVI - STRIKES, STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS
Since this Agreement provides for anlarderly method for the adjustment of disputes, all strikes, stoppages, slowdowns and lockouts are prohibited. If, however, a strike, stoppage Jr slowdown should occur, the Union shall immediately order the worke s to return to work. If a strike, stoppage,slowdown or lockout occurs, th aggrieved party shall have the right to demand an immediate hearing be ore the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration on four (4) hours notice.
Article XVII - EXISTING PlJkNT PRACTICES
All existing rules, regulations and shoo practices of the Company now prevailing and not inconsistent with the pms of this Agreement, shall continue in full force and effect.
The Company shall have the right to dttablish new rules, regulations and shop practices which do not conflict w|th the terms of this Agreement.
Article XVIII - MANAGE 1ENT RIGHTS
The Union recognizes that it is the ext manage its plants and direct the work for
usive right of the Company to e, in particular:
:fficiency.
1.	To maintain order, discipline and
2.	To layoff, transfer, promote or de note.
3.	To discipline or discharge emploj res for just cause.
4.	To hire and to make appointment: to supervisory capacity.
5.	To manage the industrial enterpr ;es in which the Company is engaged, determine the products to be i unufactured, the methods of manufacturing, the schedule of product t machines and equipment to be used, the p c the nature and quality of its products.
on, the kinds of location of ocesses of manufacturing and
The foregoing enumeration sha rights of the Company not specifical retains all rights not specifically cove by the Company of any of the foregt Company shall not alter any of the S| nor shall they be inconsistent vath a
Article XIX. TERM!
This agreement shall be bindinj successors in interest and shajl be effi remain In full force amTefteci until t: be automaticallyrenewed from year the 31st of January 1997, or any yi registered mail, is given either part) propose changes in this Agreement • same, in either of which event this. ensuing 29th day of March.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the pi ment to be executed by their duly autl above written.
FOR THE COMPANY
Don Bannon Gord Hunt Carol McLaughlin
PAY EQUITY
In order to satisfy the require Legislature, ajobevaluation has bee values were assigned to all operuli established.
Anyjobs which were found to b the proper earning level. Jobs whic nance of Earnings” adjustment ap Understanding on Page 28 and will general increases until equity isach
tot be deemed to exclude other set forth, the Company therefore by this Agreement. The exercise 3 rights or any other tights of the ific provisions of the Agreement of the terms of this Agreement.
IFAGREEMENT
non the parties hereto and their ve upon the datethereof and shall 29iK~cfav~af March. 1997. ’TTsEall-'ear thereafter unlesson or be tore thereafter, notice in writing, by the other party of their desire to >f their intention to terminate the .•ecment shall terminate upon the
ts hereto have caused this Agree-zed agents as of the date first (I st)
FOR THE UNION
Peter Thomson Len Wood KishorJobanputra Kim Swayze Judy Lackner
mts of Bill 154 of the Ontario ompleted on all operations. Point i and seven (7)job classes were
ndervalued have been adjusted to vere overvalued have a “Mainte-:d to them as per the Letter of :eive only a portion of any future ed,
SCHEDULE "A"l<|94.199«
The rates listed below reflect the earn (7)jobclasses. In the case of the timework steps to reach the top rate in each class. Fo reflects the earning level at 1.70% of non
ng levels of each of the seven r rates, they reflect the various piece-workers, the I year rate n|al effort
PAY STRUCTURE* TARGETED EA (Broken Down for Time Worker Step I		ININO LEVELS ystem)	
Class 1	April 3,1994 Aprl	2,1995	Ma rch 31,1996
Start	$7.65	17.80	$8.00
3 Months	$7.75	7.90	$8.10
6 Months	$7.85	8.00	$8.20
9 Months	$7.95	8.10	$8.30
I Year	$8.05	n on	$8.40
C!ass2			
Start	$8.15	8.30	$8.50
3 Months	$8.25	8.40	$8.60
6 Months	$8.35	8.50	$8.70
9 Months	$8.45	8.60	$8.80
1 Year	$8,55	8.70	$8.90
Class3			
Start	$8.65	8.80	$9,00
3 Months	$8,75 :	8.90	$9.10
6 Months	(8.85	9.00	$9.20
9 Months	(8.95 :	9.10	$9.30
1 Year	(9.05	9.20	$9.40
Class4			
Start	(8.95 !	9.10	$9.30
3 Months	(9.io :	9.25	$9.45
6 Months	(9.25 !	9.40	$9.60
9 Months	;9.40 !	9.55	$9,75
I Year	19.55 :	9.70	$9.90
27
Class 5
Stan	S ‘ 5	$ 9.90	$10.10
3 Months	$‘ 5	$10.00	$10.20
6 Months	Sit 0	StO-lS	$10.35
9 Months	SIC 5	$10.30	$10.50
I Year	Sit 0	$10.45	$10.65
Class 6
Start	$t( 5	$10.40	$10.60
3 Months	$tt 5	$10.60	$10.80
6 Months	Sit 5	$10.80	$11.00
9 Months	SIC 5	$11.00	$11.20
I Year	$11 5	$11.20	$11.40
Class 7
Stan	$11	0	$11.15	$11.35
3 Months	$11	0	$11.35	SI 1-55
6 Months	$11	0	$11.55	$11.75
9 Months	$11	0	$11.75	$11.95
1 Year	$11	0	$11.95	$12.15
Piece-work RATES AT 130% OF		ORMAL		
Class 1	April 4,1994	April 3,1995		April 1,1996
1	S 8.05		$ 8.20	$ 8.40
2	S 8.55		$ 8.70	$ 8.90
3	$ 9.05		$ 9.20	$ 9.40
4	$ 9.55		. 9.70	$ 9.90
5	$10.30		110.45	$10.65
6	$11.05		HI.20	$11.40
7	$11.80		11.95	$12.15
n
CONTRACT BONUSES:
Contract bonuses will be paid as follows:|
Amount of bonus	i-jirment date
$250.00	th il	I pay in July 1994
$100.00	fl	Ipay in December
$100.00	la	lay in June 1995
$100.00	,a	lay in June 1996
•or as agreed to by the union and the confcany
Contract bonuses as indicated abovp, will be paid to all union employees providing:
- the employee is on the active payrollks of the date of the bonus or is on an approved leave of absence on tha| date.
- the employee has been actively empl the previous twelve months as of the
date al
>yed for at least six months in f the bonus.
• the bonuses will not be added to the ca rate or effect the current piece rates or ho\
culation of the average hourly rly rates in any manner.
- the bonuses will be included in
calculations.
gr
iss earnings for vacationpay
BENEFIT CHAfjGES SCHEDULE ••U”
EMPLOYEE WELFARE INSURANCI;
Agreement under Article VII, the fo various Insurance coverage effected by th employees in the bargaining unit and their employee has completed six (6) months o:
lowing is the outline of the : Company for the benefit of eligible dependents, after the employment.
The employee pays ten percent (10%) Care and ten percent (10%) of the cost of V a payroll deduction. The Company pays costs plus the cost cf Group Life Insuranc
f the cost of Extended Health eekly Indemnity coverage as inety percent (90%) of these
29
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
All active employees shall be insulted lor aprincipal sum of $5,000.00 payable as a death benefit. This amljnt will increase loJ 10,000.00 on April I, IMS.
Retired employees shall be insurtH for a principal sun of$2,000.00 payable as a death benefit.
This program will provide as follows:
I Sick benefit payments up to 6 to a maximum weekly benefit equal t maximum as prescribed by the U.I.C
z/3% of U.I.C. insurable earnings > the current maximum. This is the Act.
injured as a result of a non-work relat
of the accident, in the event of sick less from the eighth (8th) day of
sickness or the first (I st) day ofhospi of fifteen (15) weeks
2. The benefit under the plan ' dll be payable if an employee is
d accident, from the first (1st) day
allzatlon, for a maximum duration
To qualify for “first (1st) day ho: least twenty-four (24) hours will nort t fication will alsobe allowedifoutpati : would not usually be performed in a
pital benefit”, hospitalization of at ally be required. However, quali-ntprocedures areperformed which Doctor’s office.
EXTENDEDHEALTHCARE
a)	A drug plan which will reimbt|rsee,8hty percent (80%)of the cost ofcovered drug charges prescribed bi| a licensed physician and dispensed by a licensed pharmacist.
b)	Hospital charges for a semi above the ward level paid by the Pro
c)	Fifty percent (50%) of cha services, provided the registered nurs immediate family and the nursing : prescribed by the attending Physic Provincial Medicare Plan.
d)	The reimbursement of up to fifty percent (50%)of the reasonable and customary charges of hospital lexpenses or physicians expenses
private room wntcn are over ana 'incial Medicare Plan.
ges incurred for regular nursing : is not a member of the employee’s ervice is medically necessary and an and is not covered under the
incurred when travclIingouisidetheProvirfceof residence, which are over and above the amount provided by the Provincial Medicare Plan.
e)	AsofJuly 1,1994, VisionCarccovlrngeuptoSIOO.OOonceevery twenty four (24) months, to all eligible employees or their eligible dependents, for prescription glasses, u prflsubmisMon of a valid receipt.
SCHEDULE 1C"
1. Vacation schedule asdefined in Arlk le VIII,Section'1 A , will be (9 4htpjw.es who have achieved the following seniority, as of June
NUMBER OF YEARS	VACATION	VACATION
OFSERVICE	PAYMENT	TIME ALLOWED
Less than 1 year	4%	1 week
1 Year	4%	1 weeks
5 Years	6%	3 weeks
JO Years	&%	4 weeks
20 Years	10%	5 weeks
30 Years	12%	6 weeks
35 years	14%	7 weeks
Vacations of employees with lets (ran two years of service an subject to Provincial Regulations, as detailed in the Employment Stand
ards Act.
SCHEDULE 'JO”
Effective April 1, 1990 the Company Ivil] pay $1,50 per month pei active employee to the Amalgamated C othing and Textile Worker: Union to establish a fund for the exclusivi use of the Arrow Company
employees for training and attending cour es.
This amount will be naid monthly on a separate cheaue am
forwarded with the Union Dues.
31
LETTER OFUNdERSTANDING UNION STEWARDS TIME
A) It is agreed that the Company Officers, provided they are employ* attend meetings with the Company, required by relevant legislation, whil
' 'ill pay Union Stewards and Union es, for all lost time from work to : sttling grievances, as well as time on the company premises.
The union will, on a monthly ba; s. reimburse the Company for all such payments made to the Union r< presentatives, up to the following maximum amounts per contract year
In year 1 of the contract ■ April 4
1994 to April 1,1995 ....to a maximum of$2000,00
In year 2 of the contract • April 2| 1995 to March 30,1996
...to a maximum of $ 1500.00
In year 3 of the contract • March P1,1996 to March 29, 1997
...to a maximum ofSIOOO.OO
B) For time spent on OFF SIGH|T JointCouncil Meetings or Education pay all such time as indicated and wr on a monthly basis for all such time,
Union Business, such as Ontario ITrainingtime, the Company will 1 be reimbursed in full by the Union, without limit.
C) All time referred to in A) ant B) will be paid at the employee's current Average Hourly Rate for pieije-workers or the timework rate for timeworkers.
any discrepancies betvfeen the records of the Union
If there are records of the Company, regarding th: proof of having paid out such monle:
and the
amounts due, the Company, upon will be reimbursed by the Union.
COST OUTLINE FOR GOVERNMENT BENEFIT PROGRAMS
COMPANY COSTS VERSUS EMPLCjYEE COSTS
ITEM	COMPANY PrlYS EMPLOYEE PAYS
Unemployment	3.94% of earniriES	3.07% of earnings
Insurance
Canada Pension	2.60% of eaminfes
Company Health Tax 1.95% of eaminfes (replaces OHIP)
Workers Compensation 4.24% of earnings
2.60% of earnings NIL
NIL
TOTAL:	12.73% of eami|igs 5.67% of earnings
The percentages shown are as of Mry i, 1994 and are subject to change at the direction of the Provincial dr Federal Governments, who
havej'urfsdfctfon in this regard.
The Company portion of 12.73% oj our payroll costs plus the employee’s contribution of5.67%cf their timings is equal toacombined cost of 18.40% of every earned payroll dqlar.
33
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING MAINTENANCE PF EARNINGS
Whenever a piece rate is changed existing job, or a piece rate is seton a in the "old" rate will be added to the subsidy paid for in the Payroll
due to a changed condition on an i ewjob, any looseness that existed new job earnings in the form of a Department.
Any operation which is found to Movervalued aftera Job Evaluation process has been applied, inconjuncticjn with Pay Equity Legislation, will be treated in the same manner.
The correct piece rate or timework
rate will be given to theemployees
to apply to their card. Any newemplo 'ee oremployees transferred to the
operation which has an M.O.E. will t with no subsidy.
se the piece rate or timework rate
Whenever general increases are adjustments will be made until these
Ranted to thesejobs, the following ubsidies are completely depleted:
IF A JOB IS UP TO 5% LOOSE INCREASE UNTIL THIS SUBSIDE
GIVE 75% OF THE GENERAL IS DEPLETED.
IF A JOB IS BETWEEN 5.1% AND 10% LOOSE, GIVE 65%
INCREASE UNTIL DEPLETED.		
10.1%	15% ‘	60% "
15.1%	20% '	55% "
20.1%	UP	50% "
If ajob is measured at say, 14%		>ose, it will always get 60% of any
general increases until the subsidy 1		depleted.
The Company agrees that any »i will be directly applied to achieving
Whentm M.O.E, is established ot meet with the employee involved ani the M.O.E agreement. It will be sig sentative and the employee involve(
ings gained by the above program jte Pay Equity Targets.
) job or operation the Company will a Union representative and explain ed by the Company, Union Repre-flnH a rnnv oi'ven to each,
34