
Between! Penmans |nc.
Ariel
A l
Textile Worker^ Union
^FL-CIO-CLG, and |_ocal 1967
1994 'to'19P?
15 * 9 1996
r\ r>q rW rY=-
TABLE OF CONTEh PENMANS INC.	TS
ARTIPI F 1 - PI IRPPI^F 		
ARTIPI F II - RFrnnMITIOM		
	
ARTICLE IV - DISCRIMINATION AND UNION A	3TIVITY
ARTIPI F \/l - MO 9TRIKF9 DR I PlPkni IT9 . .	
ARTIPI F VII - I IMIDM RFPRF9FMTATIDM ...	
ARTIPI F VIII - PRIFVANPF PROPFRl JRF ...	
ARTIPI F \Y - 9FMIORITY		
ARTICLE X - GENERAL PROVISIONS RESF	EaTING LAY-OFF . .
ARTICLE XI -R ARTICLE XII - PROVISIONS RESPECTING Fll AND TEMPORARY VACA1	E C A L L LING PERMANENT CIES
ARTICLE XIII - DISCIPLINE .	.	.
ARTICLE XVI - LEAVE OF ABSENCE ARTICLE XV - WAGES ................
1
1
.2
.4
.4
.6
.6
10
15
..18
.21
.21
. 26
27
.30
ARTICLE XVI - CO-OPERATION AND EFFECT MANPOWER. ETC. -	7E UTILIZATION OF sICENTIVE STANDARDS
		 32
	
ARTICLE XVII - HOURS OF WORK AND O MRTIME
ARTICLE XVIII - DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS .	.
ARTICLE XIX - VACATION WITH PAY....	.
. 36 . 39 .41
APPENDIX “A" ............
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
47
61
THIS AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO AS OF |hE 1ST DAY OF JUNE, 1994 BETWEEN
INC.
hereinafter referred to as the I -AND-
AMALGAMATED CLOTHIN 3 AND TEXTILE WORKERS
UNION	
AFL-CIO-CLC AND LOCAL 1	967
hereinafter referred to as the	Union”
ARTICLE 1 • PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreemer: shall be to provide for orderly collective bargaining relations between t le Company, its employees and the Union. It is the desire of the parties to co-operate in maintaining a proper relationship between the Con pany, it's employees and the Union, and to settle differences orgrieva ices which may arise from time to time hereunder in the manner hereir after set out. The Union recognizes that in order to provide a f -oper relationship between the parties, the Company must be kept ii a strong, competitive market position, which means it must manufac ure its products to be competitive, cost-wise, quality-wise and service-wise, and the Union agrees to support the Company in attajping such objectives.
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION
2.01
The Company recognizes the Union asjlthe sole and exclusive Bargaining Agent for all employees of me Company in Cambridge, Ontario, save and except Supervisors, persons above the rank of Supervisor, Chief Engineer, Office andjSales Staff, Laboratory and Formation Technicians, Industrial Engineers, Product Development
personnel, Quality Control personnel, instructors, Data Entry personnel, Ben maker, Dyehouse Control Room Operdl Machine Fixers. The Company will po: t vacancies for the positions of Instructors and Pattern Makers. Emplqyees who apply will be
ecurlty personnel, and eibi die maker, Gerber marker tors, Knitting and Sewing
i
Students employed during the employees who perform position exempt.
2.02
2.03
The term "employee" or 'emplqy in this Agreement, shall mean above-defined bargaining unit
ees" as the case may be, when used only such persons as are included in the
The term 'seniority employee' serving his/her probationary p> agreement. The term “probata has not completed serving the 9.02 of this agreement.
school vacation period and part time s listed in Appendix "A" and "B" are not
leans an employee who has completed ^riod as set out in Article 9.02 of this ary employee" means an employee who probationary period as set out in Article
ARTICLE
UNION SECURITY
3.01 The Company agrees that al Agreement, including new em period, shall as a condition members of the Union in good probationary employees unde' specifically set out herein. The probationary employees becoir dues deduction (which was ai 1994) does not provide probatio under this Agreement than the;
present employees covered by this dloyees still serving their probationary of employment, become and remain standing. The rights and entitlements of this Agreement are restricted as is jarties agree that the requirements that a members of the Union and subject to g|reed to by the Company as of June 1, nary employees with any greater rights enjoyed prior to that date.
3.02
All employees at the time of members of the Union as a coi1
their hiring shall become and remain dition of their employment.
3.03 The Company agrees that following tlje employee’s entry into the bargaining unit it will deduct weekly from toe earnings of each employee the Union dues payable by such employi e to the Union.
3.04
promptly forward a list of all were made, together with the possible for the Company to
3.05
The Company agrees to make such dedur lions from the first weekly pay cheque including those employees who ■ re still serving their probationary period and once a month employees from whom such deductions amount so collected. Whenever it is no deduct such dues from such pay cheque: because the employee's pay is insufficient for the period, the Company agrees to make the necessary deduction from the next pay Immediate y following and to hold said deduction until the following month’s repo t. Such remittances and lists shall be transmitted to the Union once each month. The Company assumes full responsibility for such d< ductions and forwarding the amounts collected promptly to the Unloi, and the Union assumes full responsibility for the validity and legality i f the deductions made by the Company, and hereby agrees to inder nify and save the Company harmless from any loss, damage orexpt ise arising from making such deductions or payment thereof to the Un on.
(See side bar letter on Page 68)
The Union dues to be deducted pursuant to Article 3.03 hereof is to be fixed dollar amount uniformly levied on all bargaining unit employees and shall not be expressed in terms of |x hours earnings" or the like, and the Company shall not be required tc make any computation of the amount of such dues. In order that the Company may have definite instructions as to what amount is to be < educted for weekly dues, it is agreed that the union shall promptly notif; the Company In writing, over the signature of its Joint Board Director, i f the amount of the deduction to be made by the Company for regular weekly union dues, and the Company shall have the right to continuft to rely on such written notification, until it receives other written notification from the Union signed with the same formality.
The Company will, at the time	each remittance to the Joint
Board, specify the employees ■	e pay such deductions were
made on forms supplied by the Union.
3
3.06	The Union agrees that it will *J®pi present employees into membership and will accept all future emBlHjtees of the Company into membership, subject to the Union's constM6nal requirements.
3.07	The Union agrees to defend aflf hold the Company harmless against all
claims, demands, expensesSjrauld any personat anytime contender claim thatthe Company has	wrontffdlly w illegally In making such
dues deductions.
UNION ACTIVITY
4.01	There will be no discriminatkior coercion by the Company or Union against any employee becausalof race, creed, national origin, age, sex, union office, or handicap (as Usfined in the Ontario Human Rights Act of 1981)
4.02	Neitherthe Union nor any empHyee shall engage in Union activities on the Company's premises exceflas permitted by this agreementor with prior written permission of tlU Company. Such permission will not unreasonably be with held.
ARTICLE V ■ MANAGEMENT RIGHtS
6.01 The Union agrees that all rigfl S SR0 prerogatives which the Company had prior to the execution of thrlffififement and which are not restricted by the provisions of this cafSWb
Company and remain exclusiv9^ SRd without limitation within the rights of the Company and its Manasj<men* Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company's £|Ml shall include:
a)	The right to maintain (Irder, discipline and efficiency; to consult and confer with the Union as necessary, when making and altering rules and regulations, policies and practices to be observed by Its employees. To discipline and discharge any employee for just cause, subject to the right of that employee to submit a grlevancq.
b)	The right to select, hire and manage th< employees: to transfer, assign, promote recall, suspend employees,to plan, dire operations; to introduce or change mac studies of workloads and to institute chi and Job assignments; to select and reta excluded from the bargaining unit and the bargaining unit, subject to the provl agreement and the right of employees tj>
working force of emote, classify, lay-off, ct and manage plant line processes; to make nges In the workloads n employees for positions transfer employees into ions of this collective submit grievances.
11
c)	The right to determine: the location and e (tent of Its operations and their commencement, expansion, curtallmen, ordiscontinuance; the management of the working forces; the p oducts to be manufactured; the standards of production; the subcontrac :ing of work, the schedules of work and of production, the number of shifts; the methods, processes! and means of performing work; job content and requirements; quality and quantity standards; the qualifications of employees; the use of improved methods, machinery and equ ament; processes and place of manufacture; whether there sh ill be overtime work and the number of employees needed by th > Company at any time and how many shall operate or work or any Job, operation, machine or production line; if an emplo ee will be paid by the hour, on piece work or according to a b >nus plan; number of hours to be worked; starting and quittin time. And generally, the right to manage the enterprise and its b islness without interference is solely and exclusively th s right of the Company.
d)	in reference to subcontracting referred |o in Article 5.01 (c) above, the Company will attempt when practicablejand in the best interests of the operation, to avoid subcontracting whiqp could affect the continuity of the existingworfcforce.
e)	The Company agrees that itwill not exdrcise its management rights contrary to any of the provisionsof this agreement.
5
S.02	Management and excluded personnel referred to in Article 2.01, will not perform work done or work wlilfch can be done by employees in the bargaining unit save and except when necessary to instruct or train employees, in the case of erfwfgency to maintain the flow of production, in the Instance of the development of new products or experimental work.
It should be noted that Head machine fixers are exempt by management personnel “
ixer, Knitting machine fixers and Sewing Iti restrictions regarding work performed referred to in the preceding paragraph.
a1
It is the intent of the Compact, that wherever practical, instruction and training of employees will be ]lone by duly assigned bargaining unit personnel.
ARTICLE VI • NO STRIKES OR LOlSKOUTS
6.01 The Union undertakes and a! operation, neither the Union or encourage any strike, pick* suspension of or stoppage o which shall in any way affect there shall not be any sympai It will not engage in any lockoik Company agrees that the ex applied in a fair and non-prov oi
cjrees that while this agreement is In r any employee shall take part in or call :|ting, sltdown, slowdown, or any or interference with work or production the operations of the Company, and that y strikes, and the Company agrees that during the term of this agreement. The :j>rclse of its management's rights will be icative manner to all employees.
6.02 Any employee who participate s subject to discipline up to ant
in any of the foregoing conduct shall be including discharge.
ARTICLE VII - UNION REPRESENTATION
7.01 The Union shall designate a d the Company will recognize stewards from each of the following de jartments or groupings of departments.
The above recognition of stewards shall not exceed a ratio of 1 steward per 50 Union members.
When twenty-five (25) or more people areworklrjb inthe plant on overtime,, one of these persons will be a steward or officer providing that person is qualified and available to perform one of the operationis belni worked on during that overtime period.
In addition to the foregoing, the Union shall appoint a negotiating committee composed of not more than seven (7) employees.
No member of the bargaining unit may serve on m re than two (2) Plant committees
concurrently..
Should the operations of any one department be st rfously affected by the distribution
of committee representatives, the Company andthe Union will meet to discuss a more equitable representation,
The Company and the Union a K that in the event that the bargaining unit employees exceed a n Ber beyond which a steward would normally be expected to repr Ht, both parties will meet and discuss the addition of an extra stewa B)- Such request will not be unreasonablydenied.
No one shall be eligible to serbe as department steward or committeeman unless he is an pctlve employee of the Company and has attained seniority.
For the purposes of this Agreement, the members of the above committee, together with the s ewards, shall be deemed to be officials of the Union, and the parties hefeto agree that the Union officials occupy a position of leadership and re: ponsibility to see that this Agreement is faithfully carried out.
The Union will inform the stewards and committee each steward represents . recognize such personnel i
7.02 No Union official shall leave without requesting and obtsi|)li supervisor or his designate, ai unreasonably withheld. The jur limited to the department or
lis work to administer this agreement, ing the permission of his department such permission will not be pdlctlon and duties of a steward shall be iup of departments he represents.
rid
7.03	Any committeeman or steward during •working 'hours, Shan firs supervisor or his designate ar or his designate, when leavli steward required under thegrifr department, must inform thedrj that department which he entqi steward shall expeditiously unnecessary loss of time or therefrom.
required to participate In a grievance, obtain permission 'Tromti'is department d shalll notify his department supervisor |g and returning to his job. Any such ivaince procedure to enter another partment supervisor or his designate of 'rs, 'Of the reason for his presence. The attend to the grievance, so that no nterference with production will result
7.04	The Union recognizes and i
and stewards have regular duties to px -form in connection with their employment. The Company will compr nsate such committeemen and stewardsfortime spent during their regi lar scheduled working hours in handlinggrtevances of employees pursi ant to the grievance procedure (but not ± arbitration) at their earned av wage rate of pay, provided this privilege is not abused by the commith emen or stewards. Neither
jensated for time spent outside
committeemen nor stewardswill be com of their regular scheduled working i
The Company will compensate	r of the negotiating
committee for the time he loses ■	e engaged in negotiations
(including conciliation and mei	e renewal of this and all
subsequent collective agreements.
7.05	In the case of progressive discipline Mtlcle 13.01) the employee shall have the department steward or in theaBsence of the steward, an officer of the Union in attendance unless	the member to leave.
NOTE: Progressive discipline d r	include any instruction given
by management staff to
7.06	The President of the Union will hold a da t shift job for his term of office.
If the President elect Is on the off shift, thp following steps will take place to change his shift:
1.
2.
President elect will go to his ss Tie current job on the day shift.
The previous day shift incur allowed to exercise bumping r to any vacancies at the time shift position.
bent for that operation will be ghts as outlined in 10.01 or go ncluding the President elect off
a
ARTICLE VIII -GRIEVANCE PROCEfrURE
8.01 The grievanceprocedures with the most Important matters I agreement. The Company i grievance procedures set forth 16.08 shall be utilized by the decision and Anal settlement interpretation or alleged vlolatidn designated grievance procedure term "grievance procedure" Is considered as including the Ai
1 Article VIII and Article XVI are among I the successful Administration of this pd the Union therefore agree that the in sub-sections 8.05,8.11,8.12 and/or drlever for the prompt disposition, pf a grievance arising In respect of the of this agreement, and the specifically shall be strictly followed. Wherever the used in this agreement, It shall be bitration Procedure.
8.02 “Grievance” shall mean a corr discipline or discharge, or a dl or alleged violation of this agri
plaint of claim concerning improper li' putewith reference to the interpretation ■ ement.
8.03	All time limits referred to
to mean "working days" exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holiday
shifts.
8.04	Failure to submit a written grievance in accordance with the
requirements of the applicable sub-section 8.05,8.11,8.12 or 16.08 shall be deemed a complete wiliver and abandonment of the grievance by the griever. Any grievance rot answered by the Company within the time limits of the respective Art cle VIII or Article XVI shall be considered settled as submitted by the Un ton. Equally, any Company response to the grievance not appealed bf the Union within the time limits of the respective Article VIII or Article XVI will cause the grievance to be abandoned.
8.05
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (excludfrig Incentive Grievances) VERBAL DISCUSSION
The employee shall first discuss his complaint or claim directly with his Immediate supervisor and if he wishes, >e accompanied by his steward. After such discussion takes place and tt e employee's complaint or claim is not settled or the immediate supervisor has not given a response, then the employee together with his steward shall put the complaint or claim in writing on a grievance form supplied by the Union.
STEP
The employee's steward will submit thb written grievance to the employee’s department manager or hisldesignate. The Company shall be under no obligation to consider or process any grievance unless such grievance has been presented to the Department Manager or his designate within (10) ten working days' om the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based w tire known or could have been known by the griever. However, if the Company does consider or process a grievance which has been p -esented late, the Company shall not be stopped or precluded at any st ige of the grievance procedure from taking the position that the grievam e is late and not arbitrable. The Department Manager or his designate will convene a meeting within three (3) working days and shall have >resent the griever, his steward and the immediate supervisor invoh ed to hear the evidence and determine the facts. After the Departme it Manager or his designate has reviewed the case, he will within thr« e (3) working days submit his written signed response to the employle's steward.
STEP #2
If the Department Manager's or hi: satisfactory to the employee, the empl y grievance to the Plant Personnel M (3.) working days indicating by init grievance. The Plant Personnel Manag :i a meeting within three (3) working d employee, the employee's steward th( supervisor or the Department Mansg to hear first hand the case evidence a Manager shall submit his written signejf
designate’s response is not iyee's steward shall submit the erorhisdesignate within three ng the resolved areas of this ror his designate will convene ys and shall have present the employee's immediate
is designate to enable him id facts. The Plant Personnel response to the
employee'ssteward within three (a) workina days
STEP #3
If the Plant Personnel Manager's or his designate's response is not satisfactory to the Griever and/or steward, a Local -talon Committee Member shall submit the grievance to the Plant Manager witPin three (3)working days indicating by initialling the resolved areas of the grievr nee, whereupon the grievance shall te placed on an agenda for consideration s: the next Labour/Management meeting between the Management Committee the Local Union Committee and the Union's Business Agent. Within five (f' working days after the grievance was received, the Company shall arrange 4 Meeting date to discuss the grievance.
The Company shall have the right to any other Company representatives present, as it may select, and either p^ may have the griever, any witnesses or any representatives of the Union present. The Plant Manager or his designate shall give his written signed decision oil the grievance within seven (7) working days following such meeting, to the
MEP
If the Company's decision is not satisf Ictory, the Union may, by written notice within thirty (30) calendar days after he date the Company's decision was received, advise the Company of its htent to proceed to arbitration. In said notice, the Union shall propose its nominees to act as sole arbitrator to hear the grievance.
Should the Union’s nominees be unal ceptable, the Company shall propose
alternate names. Should these name parties will continue to try to arran acceptable sole nominee cannot be a
may request the Ministry of Labour fo shall hear and determine the matter of
be unacceptable to the Union, then the e for an acceptable nominee. If an eed upon or if parties take longer than
thirty (30) calendar days to agree on ^ acceptable nominee, then either party
Ontario to appoint one. The Arbitrator he grievance and shall issue a decision
which shall be final and binding uponlthe parties and upon any employee(s) affected by it.
L2
t
8.06	The Arbitrator shall not be authorized t< with the provisions of this agreement, part of this agreement, nor to adjudlca|i grievance related to him. The Arbit i penalty for the discharge or discipline reasonable in all the circumstances.
maKe any decision inconsistent f to alter, modify or amend any e any matter not included in the ator may substitute such other as the Arbitrator deems just and
8.07	Each party hereto shall bear equall^ the fees and charges of the Arbitrator.
8.08
8.09
The time limits and other requiremerits set out in this Article VIII are mandatory and not merely directory, an i no matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not properly bee i carried through all specified previous steps of the grievance procedi re within the time limits specified at each step. The provisions of this- c ause shall not be considered to have been waived by the parties or eith sr of them unless they expressly provide a waiver thereof in writing signed by both parties, whereupon such waiver shall take effect.
¥
A decision or settlement reached procedures (Article VIII and/or Article X hearing shall be final and binding upor complaining employee(s), and shall not party except by agreement in writing, an arbitration hearing, the Company representatives who pass on the san the settlement as endorsed upon the question or argument may arise as to
any stage of the grievance /I) and/or prior to the arbitration all parties hereto, including the be subject to re-opening by any the grievance is settled prior to representatives and the Union e as provided herein, shall sign Men grievance, so that no vhatthe settlement was.
8.10
\rri ) vl
When an employee's grievance issettjed by the parties or determined by an arbitratoron the basis that the err sloyee entitled to be reimbursed for wages lost as a result of action pn the part of the Company in
shall be retroactive to
the date of presentation of the grievar x, to the Company, however in the case of a pay grievance, it may cov *r the whole of the pay period in question. Such reimbursement shall oe at the applicable rate(s) the employee would have earned forthe lours he would have worked for the Company, if the violation had not i ccurred, but there shall be subtracted therefrom any monies the employee received during such period.
13
8.11 UNION POLICY GRIEVANCES OR COMPANY GRIEVANCES
A Union policy grievance or aCompany grievance may be submitted to the Company or the Union, as the case may be, in writing within ten (10) working days from the time the e ircumstances upon which the grievance is based were know or could have been known by the grieving party. Arrangements for a meeting between the Company and the Union shall be made within (5) five workinj i days of the presentation of the written grievance, and the meeting shal take place within the framework of Step No. 3 of clause 8,05 above. The Company or the Union, as the case may be, shall give its written d&cision within three (3) working days of such meeting. If the decision is unsatisfactory to the grieving party, the grievance may be submitted Ij arbitration within thirty (30) calendar
and the arbitration sections expressly understood that the provisions of this Clause 8.11 nay not be used by the Union to institute a grievance directly affecting iin employee or employees which such employee(s) could themselve institute and the provisions of clause
8.05	hereof shall not thereby b * bypassed, unless the Union can show that employee's rights undertfe Collective Agreement and/or Law (as defined below) may have or could be violated. In those cases, the Union's policy grievance(s) w II be dealt with in accordance with the Grievance and/or Arbitration.
PROCEDURES
>
>
>
>
s defined to include, for example:
Employment Standards Act of Ontario
Labour Relations Aci of Ontario
Worker's Compensa ion Act of Ontario
Occupational Health and Safety Act and its Regulations for
Industrial Establlshnr ents.
8,12 DISCHARGE CASES
A claim by a seniority employ proper cause shall be treated Step No. 3 of clause 8.05 pro/i employee and his department
se that he has been discharged without as a grievance and shall commence at Ided a written grievance signed by flie steward or a Union Committee Member
4
is presented to the Plant Manager working days after the discharge, discharged and is upon the Compah Committee Member will be called ii discharged. If the employee is dlscyii premises, a steward or Committee mei the discharge, and In such case, the stipulated above shall be enlarged to date of such written notification. The Ini Union will be permitted to attend the Management Committee and the Unicfi thereto. The discharge of a probation: y be the subject of a grievance, howeve explanation of the Company's decisior
his designate within four (4) /Vhen a seniority employee Is ly premises, his steward or a to the meeting at which he is larged while off the Company iber will be notified in writing of our (4) working days time limit even (7) working days from the smational Representative of the i ;tep No. 3 meeting between the Committee held pursuant employee may not the Union may request an
ARTICLE IX -SENIORITY
9.01	Seniority is defined for the purposesol service within the bargaining unit of ar computed from the date of hiring o bargaining unit, (as covered by Clause I part time employee computed from a governed as follows. Duringthe probi employee will becredited with ho under Article XVIII. To determine the employee has, calculations will be madi (6) hours worked and/or paid will equ il worked days for the purposes of Clau:
as the length <f employee of the Company, the date of transfer Into the 2.13 below) or in the case of a < ate to be determined and tionary period, the part time orked to include hours paid for number of credited days such on the principle that each eight one (1) day of credit towards 9.02 below.
When a part time employee has sixty (60) credited days his seniority date will be calculated by back dating s xty (60) calendar days from the date of completion of the probationaryp rrlod, then from the established date onwards such employee's senioritf Will be calculated on the same basis as a full time employee.
Seniority shall apply only to the extentIbnovided in this agreement.
Service is defined for the purposes oflthis agreement as the length of service while in the employ of the Corrlpan y from the date of the employee's last hiring
1«!
9.02	An employee having less than si considered a probationaryempldyi regard to layoff <rdismissalunti accumulated period of sixty (60) period and shall then be placec Union may request an explanatk n or lay-off a probationaryemplo”) cannot be the subject of a griev: this Clause shall be considerec for work includingovertimeda'
ijtty (60) worked days of service shall be fee and will have no seniority rights in he has worked for the Company for an worked days within a twelve (12) month Oft the appropriate seniority lists. The Of the Company’s decision to dismiss ee, however, such dismissal or lay-off '#nce. A worked day, for the purpose of a day In which the employee reported irs.
9.03	The Company will maintain) separata seniority lists in each Department and will indicate therein, those employees classed as part time.
9.04
The Company will maintain se indicate therein, those employe
iterate plant wide seniority lists and will es who are classed as par-l time.
9.05	The following are the departments in existence at the present time:
Maintenance and Services	Knitting/Knits
Dyehouse and DryFInlshing/Kjiits	Knit Cutting
Knit Sewing and Inspecting:	Wovens Sewing& Packagingi
Woven Cutting	Cravats
Shipping & Receiving Knit/Woltens/Cravat
9.06	Seniority lists, in accordance from which seniority commencAi commencement of service and less than once every six (6) seniority list posted on the dep^i wide seniority list posted In the the Company will, upon reque seniority lists not sooner than months after the last posting.
a copy of the which he has jurisdiction, of above departmental and plarjt by division will also be posted
nui
vith the foregoing, shall show the date s and also, where different, the date of such seniority lists shall be revised not mths and a copy of each departmental irtmental bulletin board and each plant-iafeteria. Notwithstanding the foregoing, st from the Union, revise and post such three (3) months nor later than six (6) le Company shall supply each steward for the department or departments in ijldition, the Company will supply copies lists to the Union office. Seniority lists In the cafeteria.
9.07	Seniority rights and employment shall cease for any of the following reasons:
1.	If an employee quits or retlris
2.	If any employee is discharged and the discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure;
3.	If an employee is absentfroln work without notifying the Company, unless a reasonlsatisfactory to the Company is given;
4.	If. after a lay-off, the employee fails to return to work within seven (7) working days after the Company's notice of recall has been sent by ReglstefSJ Mall or by telephone to the last address or telephone niOTber shown on the Company's records, or the date designed for his return, whichever last occurs.
5.	If the employee fails to repajt for work promptly after the expiration of any leave grarlwd to him unless it is for reasons acceptable to the companyvihlch are beyond the employee's control.
6.	If an employee Is absentfri^n work due to layoff for one (1) year.
absenteeism may be subject to
discipline up to and including dismiss* I. which may be subject to the provisions of Article VIII.
9.09 The Company agrees to accord a preferred seniority status to Lead Hand, and Departmental Stewards only during their respective terms of office, for the purpose of lay-ofTand recall only. Such preferred seniority shall be restricted to the department rr which the employee is, at the time, regularly employed. In using preferred seniority, an employee can displace a more junior employee in lithe department provided he is qualified to perform the work.
If such a position is not available, e can replace the most junior employee in the department providedtatwithin a familiarization period
17
of five (5) days worked he can penorm ihe work required in accordance with the Company's quality and! production standards.
10m
The Company agrees to acfi1 following Union officers: Pre$i<fi President. RecordingSecretaty,' Sergeant-At-Arms. Ifhe/they c of the previous paragraph, he/tft^! inthe plant provided he/they Is/* a positions not available he/tHI|'
In the plan! provided that withifl I worked he/they can perform fha Company'squality and product|0h
'are
a preferred seniority status to the lint, Vice-President, Second Vice-RnancialSecretary, Chief Steward, and fmot be placedthroughthe provisions yean displace a more Junioremployee qualifiedto performthe work. If such tan replace the most Junior employee 8 familiarization period of five (5) days ' Work required In accordance with the standards.
9.10 It shall be the duty of the empid; writing of any change of addre |: the Company will not be respi such employee, and any notice or telegram to the address ol Company's personnel records been received by the employer >
iyee to notify the Company promptly in ,s. If an employee should fail to do so, dnsible for failure of any notice to reach tent by the Company by registered mail the employee, which appears on the shall be conclusively deemed to have
ARTICLE X -GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTING LAY-OFF
10.01	When it is necessary to decrease tne number of employees in a department, such reduction wi be made as follows:
(a)	Probationary employees in the department will be the first laid
Off.
(b)	Iffurther lay-offs ard hfecessary, the employee(s) within the department affected** Si be laid off in inverse order of seniority provided Ihe remalnlFIJ employee(s) within the department with an appropriate tralnl* § period equal to half the normal curve inaccordance withtH® Company's qualityand production standards.
id"
In no event shall thd the employee runs work or causes da1 employee who fails ff5
Company continuethe training period if linreasonableamount of unacceptable " to machinery or equipment. Any meet the quality and
in *&ge
production standards within the aooye stared training period will be subject to lay-off.
(c|
(d)
In the event that the provisions or utilized by an employee, the employ most junior employee in any other necessary qualifications and sen' the Company be obliged to ac period, if the employee runsanunrea work or causes damage to machinal
cannot be I be allowed to displace the spartment providing he has the do the job. In no event shall e employee a re-familiarization able amount of unacceptable or equipment.
Wien it appears that a lay-off will be fjbr a period of more than ten (10) consecutive working days, an employee may be allowed to displace the most junior employee in the plant wim an appropriate training period equal to half the normal curve prodding he can perform the work required in accordance with the Cnmnany's quality and production standards.
(e)
In no event shall the Company ' period, if the employee runs an
unacceptable work or causes damage to machinery or equipment.
The Letter of Understanding re: Group Seniority for the Sewing Room is attached and forms part of this Collective Agreement. The Letter of Understanding provides for internal rnbvement(s) of employees within the Sewing Department where required.
10.02	Notwithstanding the provisions of section 10.01 hereof, seniority
employees may be laid off without regard to seniority for a temporary period of one (1) working day each, (ij. shift as Article 17.01 or part thereof) per calendar week.
It is agreed that a seniority employee shall not be laid off for more than eight (8) working days per calenderyqar without regards to seniority.
In addition to the foregoing, an employT maybe laid off without regard to seniorityduring stocktaking periodMbnd days on such lay-offs shall not be counted in the maximum of ei^t (8Jdays set out above.
IQ
10.03	Where the job of an employee^ permanentlydlscorrtlnued,
I)	as a result of total worjc elimination on the operation
II)	as a result of technoloblcal change (a significant change of equipment and methods).
such employee, after a conference between the Company and the Union, will be assigned by the Company either to a suitable vacancy or to work being performed by am employee with less seniority. Such senior employee will be given an aopropriate training period equal to half the normal curve.
Inthe eventthat such employefe fails to becomequalified In such job, the employee shall then becqme subject to exercise their normal seniority rights.
training period, if the unacceptable work or
causes damages to machinery |or equipment.
Subsequent displacements or wnere layoffs/relocations are caused by a reduction in volumes orworkpoads, Article 10.01 will be utilized
10.04	Wherever used in this agreement, the word "qualified" shall mean
presently possessed of the skills and aptitudes which enable the person to perform tire work required in accordance with the Company's quality and production standards.
10.05	The Companywill give writtenfOTce rr impending short term lay-offs as soon as knowledge of same becomes available. Where the Company has more than one (1) week's fl >llce of a planned lay-off, the Company will give the Union at least cn8!^) week's writtennotice thereof.
ARTICLE XI • RECALL
11.01	When the Company decides to increase me wore jorce in a department, the most senior laid-off person from he department (whether he has exercised his seniority to transfer to: nother department or whether he is still on lay-off) will be recalled to tl e department in accordance with his seniority, provided he is qualified to perform the work required in accordance with the Company’s qua ty and production standards. An employee so recalled may at his opt on and upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, remain in the department in which he is currently employed, In which c ise the employee shall forfeit his right to the opening in question. One (I) month after having reached the mutual agreement, the employee shr II lose his old departmental seniority and acquire seniority in the new department and be credited In such new department with his full pie it seniority.
11.02	An employee on lay-off who still has re calll rights in accordance with the terms of this Collective Agreement and cannot be recalled to his position from which he was laid iff, shall be offered alternative employment in another position with i the plant. This provision is not intended to circumvent the provision of section 11.01, but rather it is intended to prevent a seniority emplr yee remaining on lay-off and the hiring of perspective new employees
ARTICLE XII - PROVISIONS RESPECTING FILLING PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY VACANCIES
a new job or vacancy prior
to posting an available vacancy.
(a) The Company agrees to bulletin boards for three (3) or part-time vacancies, indi occupations which will resu : employees within a classlfi vacancies arising from the probationary employee havfii_ completed less than fifty (5q|) d ays
;t notice plant wide on the plant forking days, permanent full-time ding new or expanded in an Increase in the number of dation, save and except for permanent severance of a 9
of his probation period.
21
(b)
(c)
WoWi
tW5l
The Company agrees boards for three (3) length of which is ex days, but less than vacancy will be po department wherein gained by a selected assignment under th employee for future Jolp will be no transfer vacancies. Tempore restricted to employei ft
department wide on the bulletin days, any temporary vacancy the :j«cted to exceed twenty (20) working Ive (12) months. Notice of temporary tted on the bulletin boards in the vacancy occurred. Any experience ejmployee while working in the temporary s sub-section will be credited to the application of a similar nature. There seniority in the filling of temporary ty vacancies within a department are is within that department.
During the period of tlr v of making a selection employee, the Compel temporary transfer fm
cf
the posting and the time job and/or position to an vacancy by means of a un to ten (10) working days.
12.02 In the awarding of a job postecjlvacancy, the following procedures will apply:
(a)
(b) (C)
In giving considerate awarded to the . provided that he has as a permanent job, vacancy, or worked ( workforce and/or as a off.
in to applicants, the posted job will be senior applicant within the department, the job previously as an awarded job posted temporary the job as a result of a reduction in the job to which he was recalled to from lay-
er
If the job is not filled employees within the senior of those will b i
If the job is not fillet shall consider applicpi years or more seniori applicant employee f
(a) then other applicant department shall be considered, the awarded the posted job/position.
through 12.02 (b), then the Company int seniority employees having two (2) ity, and award the job to the senior om any other department.
12.03
12.04
<d)
(•)
(0
(g)
If the job is not filled through] 12.02 (c), the Company shall consider and award the postal job to the most senior applicant seniority employee having Ipss than two (2) years seniority from any other department.
If the job is not filled through consider probationary emplc vacancy.
If the job is not filled through fill the vacancy by other me.
When a posted job is not a employee under the applies])! senior applicant employee grievance in accordance wltl
The Company will post notice on the pi n and positions of the successful applies il positions for which postings have beei
the Company shall 'ees within the plant to fill the
.02 (e), then the Company may is Including hiring.
irded to the senior applicant le 12.02 (a), (b), (c) or (d), the reserves the right to lodge a Article VIII.
int bulletin boards of the names its who have been awarded the made.
An employee successfully posthg for an occupation through the posting procedure, as outlined in Article 12.01 (i) above, shall not be eligible or entitled, without the consent ofhe Com any, to be granted any vacancy or transfer for a period of nine (9) mor hs from the date of the implementation and the posting cf his r ame on the bulletin board of his aforesaid selection.
Any employee who after successfully removed from that occupation byreasoi subject to the nine (9) month restrictio i who after successfully posting for an posted position because of inability to re-post once in the above referred to i
In cases where the original applcar declines the awarding of the posting (has not physically started tf a posted job or has physically started on the posted job and withh 15 lays iproves to be unsuccessful on the job or chooses to go back to the r orig inal position as per Article 12.07), the Company agrees to assij n the job by using the original posting sheet and awarding to next sSilor qualified person as per job posting procedure.
osting for an occupation, is beyond his control, shall not be outlined above. An employee occupation, is removed from a lo the work, will be permitted to ne (9) month period.
23
12.05	The job posting procedure nereim provided shall apply in respect of the first vacancy, but will notapply tcj subsequent vacancies created by the filling of the first vacancy.
12.06	All transfers resulting from a porting applicationwill be paid at the rate cf the job.
12.07	An employee shall be returned to his old job without detriment to his seniority standing, if he express es such a preference or if he runs an unreasonable amount of unaco iptable work or causes damage to machinery or equipment during the first fifteen (15) days worked In the new position, or on the completk n of the fifteen (15) days worked in the new position, if he Is unable to pijove that he Is capable of performing the newjob.
12.08	If after the fifteen (15) days workfed in the successful employee’s posted
position, the employee fas prov 5d he has the ability to do the job, then his transfer and all of the subsequent transfers involved will be deemed to be permanent.
12.09	If a successful applicant employe during the fifteen (15) days worked period in the posted positiori/jel ‘/occupation, expresses his preference to returnto his old job, the skills acquired during that period or the skills acquired by an employee during 8 temporarytransfer other than through the job posting provisionsof II ,61 (a) and (b) and/or 12.04 will not be considered when making selretlons and awards, nor can the skills acquired be used to displace other employees during a reduction in the work-force.
12.10
12.11
Employees wishing to transfe same occupation, may apply tc posted vacancy becomes avail, the transfer. In the case of seniority will be the deciding fi
shifts within their department on the the Personnel Manager. When a non, the Personnel Manager will arrange re than one applicant for the position, or.
£ Pie mu 'acti
Employees with a minimum of bkrn (2) years seniority wishing to change their occupation may apply to tpe Personnel Manager.
12.12 (a)
(b)
(c)
An employee who transfers from one department to another voluntarily through the porting procedure, shall have no seniority in such new departi lent for the frst one (1) month but s seniority in his old department, iod, he shall lose his old icqulre seniority in the new in such new department with his
shall continue to accumulai After such one (1) month pi departmental seniority and department and be creditei full plant seniority.
Where an employee is transferred temporarily to another department, such transfer sljall be for a period not exceeding two (2) months unless mutually agreed. The employee shall continue to accumulate seniority in his previous department. At the end of such temporary transfer, the employee shall return to his previous job, or« necessary, exercise his seniority as provided for in Articles x] XI and XII.
The seniority of an employe assigned under the provislor will transfer to his new c bypassing the other senio Agreement.
s exercising his rights or being s of sub-sections 10.01 or 10.03 apartment immediately thereby ity provisions in this Collective
12.13 TRANSFER TO POSITION OUT OF |THE UNION
Any employee covered by this Agreement who is transferred to a position with the Company outside of the bargaining unit shall retain his seniority as of the date .of .transfer for a period of one (1) year from said transfer date, but shall not accumulate seniority in the bargaining unit while so employed.
TRANSFER TO FULL TIME POSITION WITH THE UNION
A member of the Union elected or se|| Amalgamated Clothing and Textile1 his absence from employment with tf
icted for union duties with irkers Union which necessitated Company may, upon written
without pay and
benefits. If leave is granted, the emf seniority for a maximum period of 121
I retain and accumulate
onths.
25
ARTICLE XIII- DISCIPLINE
13,01 The Company reserves the violates the rules and/or reguldfi discharge. The normal prof follows, however, the Company up to that of discharge, deperidll
'ifllt to discipline any employee who 1 x® of the Company up to and Including f BSilve stages of discipline will be as nay by-pass any of the following stages Idf uponthe nature of the offense.
Stage #1	Verbal wfflng
Stage #2	Record#' • Vferbal warning
Stage #3	Written v I8ffiing
Stage #4	1 to 3 day §Lspenslon without pay
Note: Wjrking suspension maj| be used depending on circumstances
Stage #5	Dlschar'S@
The normal Interval between S'Sges will bea minimum of two weeks.
Any disciplinary actions initial* d by the Company and not reversed or reduced by the grievance procure will remain on the employee’s personal record as follows:
Stage #2	6 monthi from the date of the offense
Stage #3	12 months from the date cf the offense
Stage #4	2 years
ARTICLE XVI ■ LEAVE OF ABSENCE^
14.01	(a) All leavesof absences as referredto in this agreement shall
be without pay.
(b)
The Company, may absence, without pay, reasons provided the desired leave. Any a in writing to thePersd of absenceauthorizatl&nwill
In its own discretion grant leave of lb any employee for legitimate personal Company is given sufficient notice of the ith leave of absence will be requested, tfiel Manager and, if granted, such lease ' " be given in writing, no laterthan
(C)
four (4) weeks after receipt offthe request, with a copy of such authorization sent to the Uni in. No such leave will affect the employee's seniority rights. 11 the case of a leave of absence being denied, the answer will se given In writing within four (4) weeks, along with the reason |for the denial, with a copy being sent to the Union.
The Company will grant leavd of absence to not more than two (2) employees In good standing, at the same time, to attend Union conventions or conferences, for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) working days eaclj, per year, per employee, and in any event not to exceed a total of fifty (50) days per year in respect of all such employees. The foregoing, however, Is subject to the limitation that not more than one (1) of such employees shall be from the Same department and further, that such leave of absence may be withheld by the Company, If the absence of any such employee will interfere with production.
14.02	PREGNANCY LEAVE
<|ise of pregnancy certified by a le||ve of absence subject to the
N)
condition at least five (5) me delivery or when it is known and/or health of the fetus complications in her preg Company with such advice,
The employee involved ma absence from employment' and four (4) months follow extension of such leave must 14.01 (b) hereof;
III) Seniority will
prior to the expected day of y the employee that her health is jeopardized as a result of ancy, and she presents the writing, from her Doctor.
be required to take a leave of r up to four (4) months prior to ng the date of delivery. Any e requested pursuantto Article
during the period of such
accumqlpte
27
Iv)
V)
Iv)
If the employee fails expiration of the lea\ voluntarily quit;
Before returning to Company with a phy perform her normal
Vfork,
the employee must provide the Rician’s certificate stating she is fit to :ies
ditl
employee requesting
to report for work promptly after the she shall be considered as having
shall not apply, unless the
the pregnancy leave, has been in the Company's employ fo' a period of eight (8) months.
However, a seniority i imployee not meeting this requirement, shall huve her name placed on a recall list and shall, when recalled, assume the seniority she had attained at the time ol| belnQ laid off by reason of pregnancy.
14.03 (a)
(b)
When an employee's (including the employ^ dies, the employee, or consecutive working
spouse and/or child, mother or father e’s common-law spouse and/or child), request, will be excused for the five (5) days Immediately following the death.
On the death of an sister, or parent Of request, will be excusi days Immediately fol
smployee’s legal guardian, brother or tie current spouse, the employee, on < d for the three (3) consecutive working ill >wing the death.
t>n
On the death of grandparent, brother-1 uncle, the employee, working day following! tl
V\hen an employee is of subsection (a) aboVi applicable five (5), thi i otherwise scheduled hourly rate, or at his incentlve/pieceworke.
employee’s, or current spouse’s ■i n-law, sister-in-law, grandchild, aunt or on request, will be excused for one (1) he death.
excused from work under the provisions e, he shall, on request, receive the ee (3) or one (1) day’s pay during his c ay(s) of work at his regular straight time t verage rate of pay if he is an
to jury service or who
are a subpoenaed witness shall be pa cl by the Company the difference between the employee’s straight t me hourly wage rate (average incentive earnings for incentive opei ators), exclusive of premiums or overtime hours for the number of hours that he otherwise would have been scheduled to work, and the daily jury fee paid by the court. This applies to the regular work week only.
section is
limited to a maximum of sixty (60) days in any calendar year. It is understood that under unique circumstances extensions may be
employee
must meet all of the following eligibility requirements:
a)
b)
The employee shall have a commencement of the jury
talned seniority as of the date of i uty or testimony.
The employee must apply fra leave of absence along with providing a copy of the coui: request for their attendance. A mitted subsequent to attending rice and the fees paid to the
court voucher must be sul detailing the dates of set employee for their services
c)	The employee would otherwfee have been scheduled to work for the Company on the djiy or days for which he claims payment
d)	An employee performing service shall return to work on the first (1 st) regular work day d|er being excused from such jury service or testimony.
e)	For probationary employer s, the monetary difference (as defined above) that occurs di ring jury duty or testimony will be reimbursed to the of their probationary period
29
ARTICLE XV-WAGES
15.01	The Company agrees to pd^ Schedule of Wage Rates and p A, B and (4) which form a part01' that it will advise the Union, in' (hourly to incentive or vlsd3' employees. Should there beflj'l the Company will meet with thS ’
and the Union agrees to accept the ytnents attached hereto as Appendices Wiis agreement. The Company agrees “ing, of any change in the pay structure ''fStsa) of any employee or group of disagreement regarding the change, Jflion to explain reasons for the change.
wit|
15.02	An employee who is temporari be paid the rate of the job to wfii job to which an employee is ti result of exercising his senlori request is less than the rata of of his regular job (current aveli period of such temporary trans fi exercise of seniority during request, he shall be paid the ri
y transferred to a higher rated job shal ifch he is transferred. If the rate of the dmporarily transferred other than as the y during a lay-off or at an employee's regular job, he shall be paid the rats rage for incentive operator) during the 'er. Wiere the transfer results from the ■off, or as a result of the employee's of the Job to which he is transferred
The provisions of this Article transfer lasts for more than on case shall transfer last more mutually aareed upon bv the
ley-■< ite e
15
hall apply only when a temporary i^-half (1/2) of the foil working day. In nt than twenty (20) worked days unless employee and the Company.
15.03 An employee who properly regular shift, unless he has be receive at least four (4) hours earnings or shall be paid for f< hourly earnings, except in c^: breakdowns, fire, flood or any the reasonable control of the
reports for work at the beginning of his en notified in advance not to report, will work at his average straight time hourlj 'qur (4) hours at his average straight time se of labour disputes, power or othei other causes, without limitation, beyonc Company.
An employee who does not a offered, shall not be entitle* employee has not been working any other cause, it shall be Company for his return to work reaular workina days prior to
xept and perorm available work when to payment for reporting. When an because of i Iness, leave of absence or his respons bility to arrange with the at least one (i) but not more than two (2) intended return.
It is the employee's duty to keep the i-jjsrsonnel Office informed of his correct address and telephone number and the Company will not be liable for any payment unless such arrangements have been made.
15.04
15.05
15.08
An employee called In from home to jvork in an emergency at a time
other than during, or contiguous with: minimum of three (3) hours pay at his
his regular shift, will be paid a average earnings.
Wherever the term "rate" or "rated" Is used in this agreement, it shall be deemed to mean the base rate set oil in Appendix "A” or "B". Where It is intended that piece work/incer|ive earnings apply, it will be expressly so stated and average piec i work/incentive hourly earnings shall be current average piece work/im entive hourly earnings. Current average shall be the average earnlnj s which the employee obtained during the week immediately prior to th current working week providing he worked a minimum of twenty (20) I ours on incentive;
A piece work/incentive employee, ten porarily appointed by the Company to act as Instructor, will be | aid his average piece work/incentive earnings or the Instructors rate, whichever is the greater while so engaged.
15.07	Piece work/incentive earnings shall b§ calculated daily.
15.08	A shift premium of twenty-five cents (2fe cents) per hour will be paid for hours worked during the afternoon shift! and a shift premium of thirty (30 cents) per hour will be paid for hours worked during the night shift. The foregoing shift premiums will be pa d only to employees who are actually scheduled to work such shifts a nd the twenty five cent (25 cent) premium shall not be paid to employ es whose work on the day shift continues into the afternoon shift, n >r will the thirty cent (30 cent) premium be paid to employees on he afternoon shift whose work the night shift.
by this Agreement, is shall determine the rate of the Union of same. If the Union challenges the rate, it sh< II have the right to request a meeting with the Company to endeavour!) negotiate a mutually satisfactory rate. Such request shall be made witt in ten (10) days after receipt of notice from the Company of such newc assification and rate. If the parties are unable to agree, the dispute cone amlng the new rate may be submitted to arbitration as provided in this Agreement within fifteen (15) days of such a meeting. The arbitraton decision shall be based on the relationship established by comparison with other classifications within the bargaining unit, having egard to the requirements of such classification. The decision as to the rate of pay established will be paid retroactive to the date the emp|oyee(s) commenced work in the new classification,
MANPOWER. ETC.
16.01	The Union agrees that it will acti eliminate waste in production, the quality of workmanship, prevent accidents, and strengi employees, the customer and thi
:iv|ely assist the Company in its efforts to serve materials and supplies, improve effectively and fully utilize manpower, lihen goodwill with the Company, the e public.
rig n
The Company maintains the standards. Time study, stand; Plant and any recognized standa such standards.
The Union agrees that it will respect of all such standards s
In all cases, standards will be equitable to the employee(s) an< performed.
INCENTIVE STANDARDS
it to set and implement all production idrd data from studies taken within this d data system will be used to establish
ully co-operate with the Company in 1 by the Company.
set in a manner which will be fair and the Company and represent the work
In no case will production standa
ds be established on an operation until
16.02
16.03
16.04
the prescribed methods are satistactgi operator will be instructed as to any c time will be given to the operator changed operation before commenc
set up by the Company. The ijiange in the operation. Sufficient accustom her/himself with the frig the study.
100% efficiency shall reflect the time working under normal conditions it prescribed methods to produce a non i standards.
Production standards will be establish a qualified operator working at Incen lo earn 125% of base rafe.
id on Incentive operations so that ive pace will have an opportunity
«g
Where there is a dispute concernii standard developed from a pre-dete study will be taken to confirm the sta discrepancy, the stop watch standarr
Wien incentive standards have beer established, they shall remain in effect unless there is a change, sue l as, Method, tools,equipment, work sequence, quality standards, d« sign, machine speeds, materials, or when there has been an error In gstabGshing or posting the standards.
required for a normal operator a normal pace (100%) using al piece that will pass the quality
the accuracy of a production mined time system, a stopwatch idard. Where there is a will prevail.
Standards affected by clerical or matl Union before standards are change
errors will be discussed with the
Only those elements of work affecterj by the change will be subject to revision.
Where revisions of methods, equipment, quality standards, design, machine speeds or materials have taken place, a new time study will be taken if thirty-five percent (35%) or mare of the elements making up the standard are Involved. The Comparw will discuss with the Union the breakdown of the elemental write-up to verify that thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the elements have changed prior to the actual timing and establishment of a new standard
as
16.05
The Company agrees to post a or as soon as practicable, prior
At the time of posting, all pertii of the change shall be made Company premises.
irent
16.06
16.07
A new standard or change in ex on the basis of whether or not a at 125% has potential to earn
sting standard may be challenged only qualified experienced employee working ' 25%.
A new or revised standard wi: I period of not greater than thirty1 new or revised standard is beirx employees will work under tl revised standard. If the above change in method, machine typj> average earnings for the first the standard has been effect challenged on the basis of Articl e be made In writing pursuant to Article 16.08 hereof
te
notice in the Department, two (2) days to the introduction of a new standard.
information which formed the basis available to the Union for review on
be considered to be under trial for a (30) working days (days on which the worked against) during which time the conditions as set out in the new or new or revised standard results from a or style, the employee will be paid his (5) days of the said trial period. After for two (2) working days, it may be 16.00 above and such challenge must the specific grievance procedure set in
If the standard has not been chi llenged during the thirty (30) day period as described above, such standard shall be deemed acceptable to the employees and the Union.
INCENTIVE GRIEVANCE PROCEDUHE
16.08 i)
In challenging such shall first discuss his Supervisor or his de: accompanied by his place and the emplc yi employee shall promi 16.07 above, but nottfn his Department Supi
new or revised standard, the employee complaint directly with his Department ignate, and he may, if he wishes be steward. After such discussion takes ee's complaint Is not settled, then the i|)tly within the time limit set out in Article lereafter, present a written grievance to i^rvisor or his designate.
II)
Iv)
V)
A meeting shall be held wlt|in seven (7) working days of the presentation of the written gqpvance, between the Company’s Union Steward or Committee grievance and explain how the leeting, the Company will make ntative who may be an Industrial
Industrial Engineer and thi member, in order to discuss rate was arrived at. At such available to the Union lepre:
Engineer, for use in the pres ince of the Company’s Industrial
within one (1) week after s make a written request for
rking paper with respect to such
Engineer, the Company s wc new or changed standards.
If the matter is not settled it such meeting, the Union may
ich meeting, but not thereafter, a Joint study to be conducted
between it's Industrial Engine er and the Company's Industrial Engineer. Such Joint study shall be conducted as soon as practicably possible in oompli ance with the procedure for Joint Time Studies as outlined in > .ppendix I of this agreement. At the discretion of the Departmental steward, he may be in attendance at the commencement of the initial Joint study, in order to ascertain that the correct work methods are being followed. Within erght (8) weeks of the physical study, the Union shall submit a written n port and recommendations and the Company’s Industrial Er jineer shall reply within one (1) week of the receipt of such re rort. At that time, the Joint study shall be deemed completed.
If the matter is not settle i by the Industrial Engineers conducting the Joint study, th i Union may process the matter to arbitration by giving the C impany notice in writing of such intention within thirty (30) wr rking days of the completion of the Joint study. This specific ncentive Grievance Procedure, Article 16.08, shall be d( emed to be the specifically ( ure for grievances with respect 118.05 and 8.11 hereof shall not
designated grievance procer to incentives; therefore, Articl
be used to process an incent ve grievance.
In the event a different incen the parties during or subsr grievance or is established earnings shall be correspond! date the new or revised stan<
ive standard is agreed upon by quent to the processing of a 11 the arbitrator, the employee’s irfgly adjusted retroactively to the ard was made effective.
35
vl)	If no grievance Is filed
does not request a Jo the Union does not specified, the grievance on the basis of the star the basis of the Com The provisions of this to be mandatory anl deemed to comply witi Relations Act.
or if the Union nt study within the time specified, or If give notice to arbitrate within the time have been settled dard established bythe Company or on pan/s last reply, as the case may be. grievance procedure shall be deemed not merely directory, and shall be ail requirements of the Ontario Labour
ARTICLE XVII ■ HOURS OF WORK A) ID OVERTIME
17.01 It is hereby expressly understoo 1 Article XVII are for the purpose consftued'fo be a guarantee of be done per day or per weel working schedules.
a) it B agreed '
that all eight (8) hour Schedule A, ten (10) hour shifts In Schedule
and agreed that the provisions of this of computing overtime end shall not be ' a limitation upon the hours of work to or otherwise, nor as a guarantee of
'ullowlng shift hours will be in effect, and shall be within the hours shown in shifts in Schedule B and twelve (12) C.
lour s
Knit
Dye
7:00 am - 3:00 pm 3:00 pm -11:00 pm
11:00 pm -7:00 am
7:00 am - 3:00 pm 3:00 pm -11:00 pm am
7:00 am - 3:00 pm 3:00 pm -11:00 pm am
7:00 am - 3:00 pm 3:00 pm -11:00 pm am
Replacementluncf) 20 minute break for the above shifts.
16
• Sew & Inspection
* Shipping & Receiving
Maintenance & Services
CWovens/Cravats
7:00 am - 3:30 pm (Mon. - Fri.) 3:30 pm -1:00 am(Mon.-Thurs) 3:30 pm - 7:30 pm (Friday)
7:00 am - 3:30 pm 3:00 pm -11:30 pm am
7:30 am - 4:00 pm 3:30 pm -12:00 pm am
7:15 am-3:45 pm (Mon. - Fri.) 4:00 pnv1:30 am (Mon. - Thurs) (Fri.)
“Wovens
Shift A (Days) Cuttin
Shift B (Afternoon) C
Shift C (Frl/Sat/Sun) Shift D (Fri/Sat/Sun)
. * 30 minute unpaid
Monday-Thursday 5:00 am - 3:30 pm
ttirrg- Monday-Thursday 3:30 pm - 2:00 am
5:00 am - 5:00 pm
5:00 pm - 5:00 am
nch break for the above shifts
37
Premiums will be paid as shown,
17.02
17.03
17.04
17.05
17.06
Overtime will be paid 1 accordant when an employee’s normal Company’s convenience, on a
ice with Article 17.02 hereof and also :ing hours are changed, for the temporary basis.
I word
Overtime premium shall be paid
a)	I n excess of the emplo n
b)	On the employee's set ei
c)	On a designated holidi:
An employee shall be paid as fqllows for overtime hours worked:
a)
b)
An employee not on and one-half (11/2) premiums.
An employee on incentf plus half (1/2) hiseamlri! worked in excess of hi s
on hours worked
ee's standard work day duled day or days off; or
iy-
ir centlve will be paid at the rate of one tlrpes his base hourly rate exclusive of
ive will be paid his incentive earnings igs at current average for those hours standard work day.
In no case will there be a duplic ation or pyramiding of any overtime or any other premium compensation.
There will normally be a one-hs If (1/2) hour unpaid lunch period.
Overtime shall be distributed to garment type. The senior op§f® and the next senior and so ort following criteria:
Seniority on their respective job or br will have the first option to overtime Iffbviding they are qualified and meet the
I) Must not have repd§V!i past (|e.indicate that * but failed to show management, indic9te s overtime has been wqFked
abuse of overtime attendance in the by would be in attendance for overtime vithout valid reasons acceptable to ~ a repeated attendance problemafter , etc.).
ARTICLE XVIII • DESIGNATED HOLIDAY:
18.01 a )
It is the intent of the Compafly to permit observance of certain statutory holidays, herein after specified, without loss of pay to eligible seniority employees, subject to certain conditions hereinafter set forth.	seniority employee will be
paid his normal daily hours at his base rate or established current piecework averagelas the case may be, exclusive of the shift and overtime premiums, for the following designated holidays which fall on sucn employee’s regularly scheduled workdays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Three (3) additional holidays (to be observed between
Christmas and New Years)
provided the employee meqts the following eligibility requirements:
ID
me employee would work on such day, If holiday;
Otherwise have been scheduled I o it had not been observed as a
The employee day prior to and the frill
such holiday. An oi reports for work less the qualifying days Company, will retain
T Iced t
i tf 31
the full last scheduled work next scheduled work day after tflerwise eligible employee, who in one hour late on one, only, of vith reason acceptable to the s eligibility;
III)	A designated holidi y falling on an employee's scheduled day off will jpe paid as per the provisions of this Article.
i)
39
b)
An otherwise eligible ei a result of not working work day prior to or holiday, shall be paid was as a result of:
who failed to qualify solely as >ne (1) only of the full last scheduled next scheduled work day after such f£r such holiday if such failure to work
theft
I) lay-off which coi employee did no
n the week in which the work the qualifying day, or
II) the employee a< provisions of Arti
HI)
the employee's si day or more, provided the the Company of
bjt
enml
ittpnding Union business under the itle 14.01 (c) hereof, or
ijckness and/or injury of one (1) working less than ten (10) working days, loyee furnishes proof satisfactory to such sickness and/or injury, or
Iv) authorized leave of absence under Article 14.01 (b) hereof, commencing within five (5) days before the holiday or comrr encing upon the day after the holiday.
v)
iekt
the employee hajrii work on the m holiday, due to v requested by thi i
’ing to leave after properly reporting to scheduled work day following the Writable illness, proof of which may be Company's Personnel Department.
who failed to qualify as a I last scheduled work day prior to
and the full next :
be paid for such hollda i, if such failure to work was as a result of authorized leave of i bsence under Article 14.01 (b) hereof, commencing withirn fve (5) days before the holiday and terminating not more than five (5) days after the holiday. In this even, the emiplsyee concerned must work the full and the full scheduled work day following his leave* ot absence to be eligible for the holiday pay.
18.02	When one (1) of the foregoing designated holidays occurs on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company may declare the scheduled work day immediately preceding orimmejdiately following the holiday as the day for observance of the holiday..
18.03	Where a regularly scheduled shift s arts on the night preceding a
designated holiday and finishes ont le holiday, or starts on the night of the designated holiday, such hours 5 the sh ft as are worked will not be paid for at overtime or premium	ut shall be paid for at the
employee's regular rate.
18.04	An otherwise eligible employee, whcl is scheduled to work on one (1) of the designated holidays, but does nol report to work as scheduled shall forfeit his holiday pay for that particular holiday, unless he is able to provide a reason satisfactory to the P ant Manager for such failure.
18,05	An employee who attains seniority subsequent to the designated holiday, will retroactively receive holllay pay in accordance with Article
18.01	hereof provided he meets all Jl the eligibility requirements.
ARTICLE XIX ■ VACATION WITH PAY
19,01
The Company will grant eachempioi ?esubjectto this agreement a vacation with vacation pay to be con|_ >uted as follows;
41
CURRENT PERCENTAGES			CURRENT ENTITLE		yiENT
LESS THAN 3 YEARS	4.0%		LESS THAN 6 YEARS		2 WEEKS
3 YEARS LESS THAN 5 YEARS	4.5%		LESS THAN 6 YEARS		2 WEEKS
S YEARS LESS THAN 10 YEARS	6.5%		6 YEARS LESS THAN 14 YEARS		3 WEEKS
10 YEARS LESS THAN 15 YEARS	7.5%		14 YEARS LESS THAN 20 YEARS		4 WEEKS
15 YEARS LESS THAN 20 YEARS	8.5%		14 YEARS LESS THAN 20 YEARS		4 WEEKS
20 YEARS LESS THAN 25 YEARS	9.5%		20 YEARS AND OVER		5 WEEKS
25 YEARS AND OVER	10.5	6	20 YEARS AND OVER		5 WEEKS
EFFECTIVE THIRD YEAR OF AGREEMENT (181					
					
1996 PERCENTAGES				1996 ENTITLEMENT	
LESS THAN 3 YEARS		4.0%		2 WEEKS	
LESS THAN 5 YEARS		5.0%		3 WEEKS	
MORE THAN 5 YEARS		6.5%		3 WEEKS	
MORE THAN 10 YEARS		8.0%		4 WEEKS	
MORE THAN 15 YEARS		9.0%		5 WEEKS	
MORE THAN 20 YEARS		10.0%		6 WEEKS	
MORE THAN 30 YEARS		12.0%		7 WEEKS	
Service will be calculated up to and including Junje 30th of the vacation year.
The appropriate rate will be applied to the employ's earnings for work performed for te Company during the twelve (12) monthsending May 31st.
19.02	In the event there is no plant shutdown for the vacation period, vacations will be arranged with regard to senl irity and the Company's operational requirements.
19.03 Employees must take the vacatior
to which they are entitled. The
r to the commencement of
the employee’s vacation. Employees pay entitlement, may elect, subject b notice, to receive the balance of thei increments.
e than one week's vacation e Company two (2) weeks vacation pay in one week
ARTICLE XX ■ BULLETIN BOARDS AND t OTICES
20.01 The Company agrees to post In plan meetings or social events.
20.02
20.03
The Union will not distribute or post c r cause or permit to be distributed or posted on the property of the C impany, for or on its behalf, any pamphlets, advertising or political mat sr. cards, notices or other kinds c£ literature except with the written pern isslon of the Plant Manager.
Union notices announcing Union
Except as otherwise herein spedficall) party desires to give to the follows:
To the Company:
To the Union:
Inc.
111 Savage Dr ve Cambridge, Ontario N1R5X9
Attention: Emp|oyee Relations Manager
ACTWU Local 1967
15 Gervais Dri\fe, Suite 700 Don Mills, Onta io M3C 1Y8
Copy: Recordirg Secretary, Local No. 1967
ARTICLE XXI -SAFETY. HEALTH AND WE|FARE
21.01 The parties agree to cooperate in (he prevention of accidents and enforcement of safety Tules In The plarf.
any notice which either given by Registered Mail as
21.02 An employee on the job shall be pi the injury-occurred, at the appllca employee at the time of the Ir Company sends the employee
l<U for the balance of his shift on which iltle rate of pay being earned by the exclusive of shift premiums, if the e or to an outside hospital.
21.03 a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
The Company agrees to cost of premiums for: Ekti Accidental Death and □ ii Indemnity Plan. Life Insji $10,000.00 of coverage
gay 55% and the employee 45% of the iended Health Benefit, Group Life, membermenl Plan and a Wage Loss irance and A.D.&D. will provide
For the life of this conti of the premiums for e covered by this agreei The plan will be a 100°/ benefit of $100.00 per contractual' months.
:r: ict,
the Company agrees to pay 100% vision care plan for all employees int and their eligible family members.
plan with a maximum person every twenty-four (24)
The provisions of this respect of those emp spouse's parents’ or oilk
Such benefits and entirety by reference tc insurance. The terms by an insurance agei controlling in all matterje employees for benefits to the existence and
Article 21.03 (a) shall apply only in oyees who are not covered by their ler coverage.
pit n
s are necessarily qualified in their the underlying policies or contracts of df any contract issued in respect hereof ircy or governmental agency shall be pertaining to qualifications of hereunder and in all matters pertaining e> tent of benefits and conditions.
b(
No grievance may dispute with respect ta the insurer or govemi binding upon the pai affected thereby.
The Company agrees Union membership, cqpi
processed in support of a claim or the aforesaid plan, and the decision of agency involved will be final and hereto and upon any employee
to pay the cost of and to supply to the ies of the collective agreement.
7^
of Ontario
should decide to abandon t|e current payment system for hospital insurance - the Employer Health Tax (E.H.T.) -and to
J Insurance Plan
(O.H.I.P.), it will pay one [hundred per cent (100%) of tha premium cost of that lnsura|ce plan for all employees.
ARTICLE XXII - TERMINATION
22.01 This agreement shall become effective! on tne lst day of June, 1994 and shall remain in full force and effect
and except as otherwise herein specffically provided, until the 31st day of May, 1997 and shall continue automatically thereafter during annual periods of one year each, unless either party notifies the other parly in writing as provided for in amendments to this agreement.
22.02	Notice that amendments are requlrejtl shall only be given during the period of not more than one hundred and twenty (120) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiry! date as stated in 22.01 or during
S
received by either party In accordance with the foregoing, the other party agrees to meet for the purpose of negotiation. Negotiations will commence within thirty (30) calendar days of the first party opening request.
22.03	If the parties enter into negotiations pr the purpose of amending this agreement, and agreement on the ren >wal or amendment of this agreement is not reached prior to the st ited termination date, hereof, the termination of this agreement shall be automatically extended until consummation of a new agreement, oi completion of the conciliation proceedings prescribed under The Labpur Relations Act of the Province of Ontario.
ARTICLE XXIII - LETTERS OF UNDERSTANblNG
23.01 The following Letters <f Understandlnttwill form partof the collective agreement.
45
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
f) S)
h)
i)
J)
K) I)
General Provisions cove Letters of Understanding General Provisions cove Program in Sewing Depi General Provisions cove Department.
Provisions, re:Tempora Letter of Understanding, Letter of Understanding, Letter of Understanding, Letter of Understanding, Letter of Understanding, Off
Letter of Understanding, Letter of Understanding,
ing rayment of Average Earnings. re: Vacation Pay.
ing Transfer with Incentive Assistance qrtment,
ing Group Seniority in Sewing y Rates.
re: List of Chemicals.
re: Job Duties.
re: Forklift Truck Drivers.
re: Safety Footwear.
re: General Provisions respecting lay-
re: Restoration of Seniority. re: General provisions covering
WORKERS
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING & TEXT1U
AFL-CIO-CLC LOCAL 1967
Judy Lackner Cathy Paulin
Marilyn Haydt
49
APPENDIX "A'
DEPARTMENT AND OCCUPATION
JUNE
Knit/Woven/Cravat Maintenance &
Maintenance Helper
Industrial Mechanicfshifl team leader)
Industrial Mechanic Millwright
'Stationary Engineer (Class #3)
Pipefitter
'Welder
*HI-Pressure Welder
'These rates will apply to persons emplo
red in the designated categories
Knitting Machine Operator
Production Recorder
Knit - Dvehouse and Dry Finishing
General Help
Tri-Pad Operator
Calendar Operator
Dryer Operator
NON-INCENTIVE
GE RATES
JUNE 1/96
Janitor
Truck Driver
12.28
Millwright Apprentice (start 70% of I.M.M.
13.33
8.65
47
NON-INCENTIVE W/j		GE RATES		
DEPARTMENT AND OCCUPATION I jJ I 1		INE 94	1/95	JUNE 1/96
Shipping and Receivinq				
General Warehouse Help	6	51	8.66	8.81
Shlpper/Receiver	S	05	9.20	9.35
Lead Hand	S	11	9.26	9.41
WOVENS DIVISION				
Cutting - Unloader/Service	8	45	8.60	8.75
Cutting - Match Up	8	45	8.60	8.75
Packaging - Seconds/Cleaner	8	53	8.68	8.83
Packaging - Mender	8	45	8.60	8.75
Packaging - Match-Up	8	45	8.60	8.75
Packaging - Sorter	8	45	8.60	8.75
Finish Goods Auditor & Processor	8	51	8.66	8.81
Service	8	45	8.60	8.75
Wovens Service Match-Up	8	45	8.60	8.75
TIE DIVISION				
Service	8	15	8.60	8.75
Raw Material Expeditor	9	)5	9.20	9.35
				
49
APPENDIX j’B'
INCENTIVE	BA	3E RATES		
DEPARTMENT AND OCCUPATION		JUNE	JUME	JUNE 1/98
		1/94	1/95	
Incentive Base Rates		7.00	7.15	7.30
Minimum Rate for Non-Probationary Employees		7.00	7.00	7.00
POLICY ON NEW HIRES
90% of Job rate cr greater at Company discfretlon.
GUARANTEE PROVINCIAL MINIMUM
It is understood that during the term of the! Calective Agreement the base rate for incentive operators will not be less than ttfy Provincial Minimum Wage.
50
APPENDIXHl
JOINT TIME STUDIES
A dispute between the Cc Study as referred to in A will be conducted in the following manner.
The Company Industrial Engineer anc meet and reviewthe facts of the dispjiti method, calculations, etc.)
The Engineers referred to above will the operator(s) affected the dispute.
w
The studies will be conducted at the operators), the duration of the study that the disputed element(s) has been accurate determination of the elapsed Engineers the study will then be term
in resu ting in the need for a Joint 08 (frf7 o#18 Labour Agreement,
the Union Industrial Engineer will :e (cause of dispute, earnings,
hen conduct joint time studies on
! ame time, and on the same be of sufficient length to ensure sufficiently observed to permit an l me. On the agreement of the two lated.
During the joint study, the operator will work at his or her normal pace using the mett od(s) upon which the standard in dispute
was determined. During the! study, the two Engineers will determine and record the pe :e ratings that will be used to
determine their respective '
Following completion of the joint stud; summarize the findings of his partlculi r
The two Engineers will then meet arjd attempt to resolve the dispute based on the above findings.
The Company Engineer will then report Companyfor decision.
The Union Engineer will also report thp Union Executive and the employee(sH<
studies, each Engineer will study.
tie final results of the study to the
final results of the study to the for their decision.
51
APPENDIX 2
PROCEDURE - FOR THE SETTING OF NEW OR REVISED PERMANENT INCETTIVE STANDARDS
a)
b)
d)
e)
In the case where the Impfemen atlon of the above procedure requires the operator(s) to be time Studie I, the following rules will apply.
The operator(s) will ie informed by the foreman or his designate of the upcorr ing study and the reason for the study.
The operator will be in: tructed (if necessary) in the methods to befollowed during the itudy.
flowed
standa
d.
The study or studies wi I be of sufficient duration to ensure that
____......	—-ar<iaccu._.--------; ...,............„
required to perform thu required work element.
Upon the completion ' if the observations and prior to leaving
the operator's workpace	....
-----_------per jtor.	,
approximate pace rati ig observed during the study.
No calculations will b« made ratings have been rec jrded.
All pace ratings recor ted on a time study will be made at the site of the time study taken.
and during the time the study is being
In the case where the implemen atlon of a new or revised standard does not require a time study, the fol owing rules will apply.
a) The operator(s) will b s informed by the foreman or his
designate, of the uppoming change and the reason for the change.
52
APPENDIX
APPLICATION OF INCENTIVE EARNINGS CEILINGS
Ceilings will be placed on individual Incentive samlngs for unacceptable quality performance using the following procedure:
First Occurrence Second Occurrence Third Occurrence
Fourth Occurrence
Fifth Occurrence
A Verbal wamin j by Supervisor A written wamir j
A Ceiling on ear lings of 40% above base a period of six weeks
A ceiling on earnings of30% above base a period of twehje weeks
Subject to immediate dismissal
rate for rate for
The above procedure is consistent with thdJPiscIplIne procedure outlined in Article XIII (Section 13.01) of the Collective ASffeement, where length of time of disciplinary action will remain on employee’s RSrsonal record is concerned.
APPENfllX 4
PENMANS PARTNERS
■its Your E usiness"
EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION INCENTIVE PROGRAM
PLAN DOCUMENT
OVERVIEW
This document is intended to outline the operd] ional details and conditions of the
program known as the "Penmans Partners, Program' (hereinafter known as the
[mployee Recognition Incentive iram") as agreed between the
Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union (hereinafter referred to as the "Union") and Penmans Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the 'Company").
PROGRAM YEAR AND RECOGNITION AWARD PAYMENT DATES
The program will have three independent proJ will have a payout date as follows:
am years and each program year
PROGRAM YEAR
EMPLOYEE PAYOUT
1994	(June 1,1994 to Dec. 31,1994)
1995	(Jan. 1,1995 to Dec. 31,1995)
1996	(Jan. 1, 1996 to Dec. 31,1996)
January, 1995 January, 1996 January, 1997
PLANT BUDGETS AND PAYOUTFORMUla PLANT BUDGETS
The payout formula will be applied independent program year will have established a Plant Buc plant operations budget excluding material spending or any other extraordinary budget
ly to each program year and each of the "Normal" costs, distribution costs, capital expenditure.
All budgets are to be prepared using starpard and recognized accounting principles and will be reviewed with the Uniop for explanation, clarification and communication.
Any budget disputes, if unresolved are subject to the normal grievance and arbitration procedures as outlined within trie Collective Agreement and the Company shall make available, on request, all materials pertaining to any budget dispute to the Union and/or the Union's designated legal counsel for examination prior to the arbitration date. It Is agreed thatlany budget materials so provided are to be considered "Company Confidential" documents that may contain certain competitive costing information and are to be guarded as such by the Union or the Union's legal counsel.
55
The Plant Budget Base for each Program year shall be as follows: PROGRAM YEAR	PLANT BUDGET BASE
1994
1995
1996
Forthe period June 1,1994 to Dec. 31,1994 For the period Jan. 1,1995 to Dec. 31,1995 For the period Jan. 1,1996 to Dec. 31,1996
PENMANS "Ife Your
EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION
ARTNERS
uslness"
INCENTIVE PROGRAM
PAYOUT ruxMULA
PAYOUT FORMULA
Ifthe targeted Plant Budget attdljl per cent (10%) favourable) In |H| share In these efficiencies In Qualifiers, five per cent (5%) dl calculated on December 31 oft. lump sum paymentdurlng the J«f>l
fhent Ts ninety per cent (90%)(l,e. ten f Program year, then employees will [8t they will receive, as per the Pian average base rate In the Plant as respective Program year, paid In a liary Immediatelyfollowlng,
if tie
1<6
At targeted Plant Budget attaint 8ht of one hundred percent (100%) in any "Program" year employees'^ I receive as per the "Plan Qualifiers" zero per cent (0%).
There will be no employeepatf8j exceeds ninety nine per cent (Y
^jf'om the Plan if budget attainment
Budget attainment falling betwe®<16l above corridorsor less than ninety nine per cent (99%) payout to b® Y^ated on a pro-rata basis (see table
5<f
The following will representthe payout formulae: BUDGET ATTAINMENT
100% attainment (budget met)
99%
98%
97%
96%
95%
94%
93%
92%
91%
10.0% (means 10% favourable)
'Note percentage payout and base rate Inthd plant will be calculated as of December31 of the respective programyear resulting Ina lumpsum payment once a year end £ finalized.
’Applied to Average Actual Plant Base Rate bt December 31 in any Program year, to be paid in a lump sum separate cheque as early in January as possible.
QUALIFIERS
PAY OUT RATE
0%
0.5%
1.0%
1.5%
2.0%
2.5%
3.0%
3.5%
4.0%
4.5%
5.0%
In orderto realize any Employee Recognition Incentive Award Payout, in any ProgramYear, the following 'Qualifiers' must ie met:
a) A Plant Budget attainment no greaterlthan ninety nine per cent (99%) must be realized.
and
b)
Employees must meet the Service Factor Requirements as stipulated below.
and
c) Employees must meet tteAttendance Factor Requirementsas stipulated below.

ONLY
a)
Employees having one hundred continuous service during the pel shall receive a lump sum payi 100% of the Individual payout cdj
end fifty-two (152) working days cf rpd Junel, 1994 to December3l, 1994 nt equivalent to the hundred percent Iculatlon.
b)
Employeeshaving one hundred continuousservice but less than days of continuous service during 31,1994 shall receive a lump surp cent (75%) of the individual payi
and fourteen (114) working days of is hundred and fifty-two (152) working the period June 1,1994 to December payment equivalent to seventy-five per '4>ut calculation.
ski
dj Employeeshaving less than seventy-sp {,10) working days of continuous service during the period Junel, 199 f to December 31,1994 will not qualify for any payment for the 1994 I rogram year.
ATTENDANCE FACTORS
a) To qualify for an incentive payout awar I, any employee must attend work at least ninety-four per cent (94%) of the regular work days in the Program year. Paid vacations and pt id designated holidays are excepted. Any other reason of absei ce, whether excused or not (e.g. leave of absence, sickness, bereavemi nt) will be considered an absence for purposes of the incentive award pi ogram.
b)
Any employee who Is granted a matei current Employment StandardsAct, fj paid the incentive award, calculated numberof days absent fromworkdus
Inity leave as defined within the >r the Province of Ontario, will be based on the to the maternity leave.
E.G. Twenty-five (25) weeks mate nlty leave, the employee would receive fifty-two (52) weeks minus twer y-five (25) weeks = twenty-seven (27) weeks. Pro-rata calculation wouldfsimply be 27/52 times the normal payout calculation amount.
c)
d)
e)
Attendance calculations are based c within the Program year and include i
i total cumulative hours worked I overtime or call-in hours.
Employees who experience absence gipr regular work days of the Program ye: payout award. However, employees basis, on request and such requests appropriate work is available. Such paid at overtime rates as stipulated attendance credits to re-qualify for accumulate only on an hour for hour s
than six per cent (6%) of the will not qualify for an Incentive make up time on an overtime be granted providedthat equested make up time shall be n the Collective Agreement but an incentive payout award will raight time basis.
r lay s tall
Any employee laid off within the terms! of the Collective Agreement will continue to accumulate service for purposes of this program, but any payout calculation will be made on a dro-rata basis using total hours worked during the Program year.
59
GENERAL
PROGRAfJI YEAR 1 (JUNE 1, 1994 TO DECEMBER 31,1994)
Normal payout award las per Plan document.
TOgW1_yBftR_2.
(JANUARY 1,1895 TC Normal payout award
DECEMBER 31,1995) as Der Plan document.
PROGRAM YEAR3
(JANUARY 1,1998 TQ DECEMBER 31,1996] Normal payout aw?^ '-nr Ran document.
Letter of Understanding
General provisions covering transfer with Incentive Assistance Program in the Sewing Department
JOHN FORSYTH COMPANY
PIECE WORK JOB GROUPINGS - WOVE NS DIVISION
GROUP #1	TOP FUSE COLLARS	CRIMP POCKETS	CLIP FRONTS - MANUAL PLACKETS
	TOP FUSE CUFFS	CRIMP FLAPS	MANUAL CLIP COLLAR POINTS
	TOP FUSE FLAPS	CRIMP EPAULETS	MANUAL CLIP FLAPS
	TRIM AUTOBAND THREAD	REMOVE STICKERS	MANUAL CLIP TABS AND LOOPS TRIM PELLON AFTER EMBROIDERY
	TOP FUSE EPAULETS	CRIMP BANDS	MANUAL CLIP CUFFS
			
GROUP #2	TURN AND PRESS CUFFS	PRESS POCKETS	WASHING SHIRTS f
	TURN AND PRESS FLAPS	PRESS FRONTS	
	TURN AND PRESS COLLAR		
	TURN AND PRESS TABS		
				J
61
«fcOUP	ATTACHED STICKERS TO BAGS	PRESS/BUTTON-UP	FOLDING EXAMINE & BAG BOXING
	TURISiBLEEVE/PRESS COLLAR PACKAGING INSPECTION		
GROUP #4	AUTO INSERT BAND	AUTO TOP STRCH CUFF	AUTO HEM SHORT SLEEVES
	AUTO RUN COLLAR	AUTO POCKET SET	AUTO HEM POCKETS
	AUTO RUN CUFF	AUTO LEFT PLACKET	AUTO HEM CUFF
	MANUAL FRONT PLACKET		AUTO HEM FRONTS-RIGHTS
			
GROUP #5	TACK STAY	AUTO LABEL SET	TACK COLLAR TABS
	TACK BAND LABEL	BARTACK SHORT SLEEVE	MANUAL STITCH TABS
	TACK YOKE LABEL	BARTACK POCKET SLOT	STITCH DOWN SLEEVE PLACKET
	RUN ON SLEEVE PLACKET	ALL BUTTON POCKET SLOT	ALL BUTTON HOLE SEW OPERATIONS
			
GROUP #6	MANUAL RUN COLLARS	MANUAL POCKET SET	MANUAL PLEAT SET SACK
	MANUAL RUN FLAPS	MANUAL FLAP SET	MANUAL TOPSTITCH COLLARS
	MANUAL RUN EPAULETS	MANUAL HEM POCKET	MANUAL SEW DARTS
	MANUAL HEM CUFFS	MANUAL TOPST1TCH CUFFS	TOP STITCH SHOULDER JOIN
	TOP STITCH YOKE	TOPSTITCH FLAPS	TOPSTITCH EPAULETS
			
GROUP#?	COLLAR SET	CUFF SET	TOP STITCH SLEEVE AFTER RUN ON?
	RUN-ON & STITCH DOWN COLLAR SET		|
			
GROUP #6	FELLING	FELL JOIN SHOULDERS	HEM BOTTOM
	RUN ON SINGLE NEEDLE	JOIN SHOULDERS	OVERLOOK FRONT
	YOKING	SLEEVE AND SEAM	
			
| GROUP #9	TIE UP CUTTING	TIE UP SEWING - IND. DEPARTMENT	PINNING
	PICKMARKING		
GROUP #10	SPREADING	CLICKING	
			
63
Tie Department-
\ Work Job Groupings
Group #1
Face turn and seam Press
Manual face press Clip Llba threads
Finall press	Clip tie linings
Baggljig	stuffing
Pric< g
Group #2
AMF
Auto face press Manual turn Wanding
Llba	Bar tack
Autc	m Label
Red | rots -makiifg
hole fing knots
Grouo#3
Join f es
64
Manual face sew
Cross tip ties
Knits Operation GroupDIassification
Group
(A)	Chainstitch
(B)	Blindstitch Hem
(C)	Single Needle
(D)	Overlock (seaming)
(E)	Auto Belt
(F)	Computer equipment
(G)	Semi-automatic
(H)	Miscellaneous
(I)	Finish Goods Handling
Operations
Edge neck, Yamato waistband machine tunnel elastic, tape neck, coverseam (all types)
All types of blindstitch bottom and circular sleeve
All single needle lockstitch machines
Shoulders, attach neck attach
elastic,all otherfleece, all other non-fleece, U.P.S. utility
Conveyor belt pockets, sleeves. 2 needle bottom
Embroidery, auto pocket set label making
Barring, button sew, eyelet, label tacking
Load INA, auto turning
Inspect, ticket bag
3.
4.
lin spent by an employee tn to another occupation, while w|pi pnxluction on the employee's
ijnsferred at Company's convenience irk is available and is scheduled into 'designated occupation.
Unmeasured Work - Time which an engineered standardl
lime spent making samples
sjpent on an incentive occupation for has not yet been determined.
Extra Handling - Time spedit when an operatorworks against measured standards which c moot be attained for reasons beyond the control of the operator (e.g. improper cutting, malfunction of Wine, etc.)
Tm spent by an Incentive 0 by the Company to instructa i
aerator who is temporarily, transferred per Article 15.06.
Work Station Garment Repairs operator is not responsiblewhlli occupation and scheduled in
- Tm spent on repairs for which the le work is available on the operator's o production.
Tm spent when an incentive operator, who has reported a lack of work situation to the foreman or his designate, is not assigned to another operation.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: VACATIONllPAY
VMien calculating earnings on which vacation pay percentages will be applied, time lost by an employee covered By Workers' Compensation will be considered as time effectively worked at tie employees base rate of pay for a maximum period of 12 months of compensation.
67
SIDE BAR LETTER RE: ARTICLE 3.03
agrees to accept	for collection of union
dues payments with respect to arrears, however, will maintain present practice of not collecting these mol lies until written instruction from the Union to do otherwise as stated in mew Article 3.03.
TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
In the case of short term transfer due to transferred will be allowed up to a maximum | at their cuirerrt average. The eight hour average applies once only providing the op permanent position. After the eight hours a subject to the ToUowtng calculations:
rortage of work, the employee eight hour familiarization period familiarization period at current rator is moved to the same non-•A.I, programwill be established
T.A.I.
50% of current average at ime of transfer 75% of SA.M.s orSAH.’!
Furthermore, if an employee has not performe 1 an operation for a period of six months, he will be eligible for a complete familiarization period at the current average orT.A.I., whichever is greater.
created on the transferred job.
VYren the volume of production on an operate bn within a group reduces to the point where a reduction of personnel is wajtanted. The procedure will fall under Group procedure.

GENERAL EROVISICNS COHERING TRANSFER WITH INCENTIVE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM IN SEWING DEPARTMENT
Transfer Average incentive (TAI) payments will be effect as listed on the attached schedule.
Accumulated time records will be kept or each employee on each operation to which he is transferred except in the sase of short term transfers to fill an operation caused by absenteeism or rra shine failure, where no records will be kept for the first working day or part thei eof on said operation, The employee will be eligible for the Incentive Assist! ice Payment Program once only per operation. However, if the employee as been away from an operation for twelve (12) months or more, he will be a lowed a re-famlliarizatlon period of 30 hours at T.A.I. Furthermore, if an employee has not performed an operation for a period cf 24 months he will be emble for complete Incentive Assistance Payment Program upon return to said (operation.
Employees on the Incentive AssistanoS Payment Program will be subject to the following maximum payments:
a) TAI Program - payment up t°l the equivalent of his current average.
Calculations:
TAI - 50% cf current average at
-75%ofS.A.M.'s or S.A.H.'s
me of transfer
created on the transferred job
LETTER OF UNDER
a
TANDING
GENERAL PROVISIONS C SENIORITY INCENTI
KNITS SEWING PEP; RTMENTS
C VERING GROUP " IE IN THE
DFSIGNATFD GROUP
rRANSFER WITHIN THE GROUP
Chainstitch Blindstitch Hem
(c)	Single Needle
(d)	Overlook (Serge) Automatic Belt Semi-Automatic Computerized Equipment Finished Goods Handling Unit Production System
irst 30 irsl30 Irst 30 irst 30 irst 30 irst 30 Irst 30 irst 30 irst 30
hours
hours
hours
hours
hours
hours
hours
hours
hours
DESIGNATED GROUP	TRANSFER TO NEW GROUP
(a)	hainstitch	:irst 40 hours
(b>	Blindstitch Hem	'irst 40 hours
(c)	Single Needle	irst 40 hours
(d)	Overlook (Serge)	irst 40 hours
(a)	Automatic Belt	irst 40 hours
(0	Semi-Automatic	irst 40 hours
(g)	Computerized Equipment	Irst 40 hours
(h)	Finished Goods Handling	irst 40 hours
(•)	Unit Production System	irst 40 hours
Woven!. \DMslan
DESIGNATED GROUP
THE GROUP
Top Fuse Collars
Top Fuse CuflS
Top Fuse Flaps
Trim Autoband Thread
Top Fuse Epaulets
Turn and Press Cuffs
Turn and Press Flaps
Turn and Press Collar
Turn and Press Tabs
Attach Stickers to Bags
Turnslv/press collar, packaging'nsP®c
Auto Insert Band
Auto Run Collar
Auto Run Cuff
Manual Front Pocket
Tack stay
Tack band label
Tack yoke label
Run on sleeve placket
Manual run collars
Manual run flaps
Manual run epaulets
Manual hem cuffs
Top stitch yoke
Collar set
Run on 4 stitch down collar set Felling
Run on single needle Yoking
Tie up cutting Pick marking Spreading
First30 hours First 30 hours First 30 hours First 30 hours First30 hours First 30 hours First30 hours First30 hours First30 hours First30 hours First30 hours First 30 hours First 30 hours First 30 hours First30 hours First30 hours First30 hours First 30 hours First30 hours First30 hours First30 hours First30 hours First30 hours First30 hours First 30 hours First 30 hours First 30 hours First30 hours First30 hours First30 hours First30 hours FirstSO hours
BESICNATED CKOBP
WOVENS DIVISION
TRANSFER UISBE GROUE
Top Fuse Collars
Top Fuse Cuffs
Top Fuse Flaps
Trim Auloband Thread
Top Fuse Epaulets
Turn and Press Cuffs
Turn and Press flaps
Turn and Press Collar
Turn and Press Tabs
Attach stickers to Bags
Turn slv/press collar, packaging
Auto Insert Band
Auto Run Collar
Auto Run Cuff
Manual Fronl Pocket
Tack stay
Tack band label
Tack yoke label
Run on sleeve placket
Manual run collars
Manual run flaps
Manual run epaulets
Manual hem cuffs
Top stitch yoke
Collar set
Run on & stitch down collar set Felling
Run on single needle
Yoking
Tie up cutting
Pick marking
Spreading
FirsMO hours First 40 hours First 40 hours First40 hours First40 hours First40 hours First 40 hours First40 hours First40 hours First40 hours inspect	First 40 hours
First40 hours First40 hours First40 hours First 40 hours First 40 hours First40 hours First 40 hours First40 hours First 40 hours First 40 hours First40 hours First 40 hours First40 hours First40 hours First40 hours First40 hours First40 hours First 40 hours First40 hours First 40 hours First40 hours
7T
PIECE WORK JOB GROUPINGS - CRAVAT DIVISION TIE OEPMUTMENT - M«jIRK MB agflUPWg?
DESIGNATED <S*OUfU
Face turn and seam press Manual face press Clip Liba threads AMF
Auto face press Manual turn Wanding Manual face sew
TRANSFER WITHINrtcffii ta
First 30 hours First 30 hours First 30 hours First 30 hours First 30 hours First 30 hours First 30 hours First 30 hours
DESIGNATED CPnilPS
TRANSFER OUTS/DE GROUP
Face turn and seam press Manual face press Clip Liba threads AMF
Auto face press Manual turn Wanding Manual face sew
First 40 hours First 40 hours First 40 hours First 40 hours First40 hours First 40 hours First 40 hours First 40 hours
GROUP PROCsdfJRE
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
Other than through a layoff, operator! will remain on their respective operations, and after absence will return o their respective operation within the seniority structure outlined in the grc jp system. Production levels will always determine the necessary employe ) requirements.
Wien the volume of production on an opei point where a reduction of personnel is wr on the operation within the group will be group. If there is no opening in the said seniority to displace the most junior emplc /<
it ition within a group reduces to the it Tanted, the least senior employee issignad to an opening in the said ' group, the employee can use his 'ee in the group.
The displaced employee from the group wi I exercise his seniority to displace the least senior employee in the departmen , unless he can be assigned to an opening in the department.	|
The employee displaced from the dapartme|t can exercise his seniority as per the provisions contained in Article X (Sect|p n 10.02) of the Collective Agreement
An employee, who exercises his rights as p|r the provision (c) and (d) above, shall continue to accumulate his seniority ilr his original group or department for a period of three (3) calendar months, after which the total accumulated seniority of the employee will be transferred to his new group or department. If conditions change wrfthin the above-mentioned time limit, creating openings in the original groups cr department, the emdloyees affected may return to their original groups and/or departments All transfer* resulting from the foregoing provisionswill be paid on the Incentive Asqstance Program.
The Company reserves the right to displace re their seniority rights to obtain a new occupati n assigned in accordance with the Company’s
Operators who have exercised n, if they do not perform the work luatity and production standards.
Updated listings of Sewing Department emj loyees by Sewing Groups will be posted on the Department Bulletin Board <»*erv three (3) months.
75
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE TEMPORARY RATES
Temporary rates will be in effect up to 30 forked Days during which time standards will be established.
LETTER OFINTENt
RE CHEMICALS NOTIFICATION
The Company agrees to supply the Union Presiaant and the Co-Chairman of the Safety Committee with a current list of chemicals beini used in the plant and to update this listing every three (3) months. It is understood ttiat the submitted lists are for the use of the Union Local and Safety Committee use only and are treated as confidential Company document.
77
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Company will supply the Union with Job duties related to the occupations covered by this Agreement. The Union agreed that it will assist Industrial Engineering in preparing these job descriptions for indjrect jobs.
78
I RTTFR OFUNDERSTANDING RE MOTOR VEHICLES
All presentand future employees who are responsjjla for operating Forklift, Stackers or any other motorizedvehicles will be required (o take an in-plant driving safety course as part of the requirements on the job.
79
IFTTFR OF liNDERSTANDING
RESAFt -OOTWEAR
The Company, at the request of any emip(pyee(s) covered by the Collective Agreement agrees to reimburse employees up to a <imum of one hundreddollars($100.00) per contract year, towards the purchase of ety footwear, such employee must provide the original receipt of paymentto be e lie for reimbursement
10
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Hie Company agrees to a discussion only, with frie Union, concerning service factor recognition of previous John Forsyth and previous TAG. employees only once all bankruptcy proceedings involve the insolvency of TAG. are completed, and in particular, all proceedings where the Union mayjbe involved.
81
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
GENERAL PROVISIONS COVEFt NO PREVIOUS SENIORITY
For the purposes of the Collective Agreeme t between the Parties, an employee's seniority and service will be basac only on an employee's length d service with the Company and an employee's serviqe and seniority with any previous employers, including John Forsyjh and the Penmans Division of T.A.G. Apparel Group Inc., shall not be taken into account for any purpose whatsoever except for the purposes enumerated below:
Computation of probationary period
Lay-off(s) occurring after the effective date of the Collective Agreement;
Recall(s) occurring after the effective date of the Collective Agreement;
Awarding job posted vacancies;
Job assignments Agreement;
pursuant to Article X (Section 10.03)ofthe Collective
Changes of occupation pursuant to (Article XII (Section 12.11) of the Collective Agreement;
Transfers outside the bargaining trjif pursuant to Article XII (Section 12.13)of the Collective Agreement;
Transfers d employees pursuant to Article XII (Section 12.12)of the Collective Agreement;
82
Pregnancy Leave
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
PENMANS, A SUBSIDIARY OF JOHN :ORSYTH COMPANY INC.
AND
AMALGAMATEDCLOTHINGAND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL gl 967
Be it agreed, that during the term of the Collective Agreement, if the Union or its Local 1967 can demonstrate to the Confcany, that there has been arbitrary use of and/or application of Article X • General Provisions Respecting Lay-off, Section 10.02 then the subsection 10.02 wjll be expunged and will be deleted
from any future Collective Agreement.
Signed this day, the---------------1^9_
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THF UNION
S3