RENNIE INC.
and
WESTERN ONTARIO JOINT BOARD,
/AMALGAMATED' CLOTHING' AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION Local 74© -
April ',19.94 to March 31,1997
INDEX
ARTICLE
Article 1 Article 2 Article 3 Article 4 Article 5 Article 6 Article 7 Article 8 Article 9 Article 10 Article 11 Article 12
Article 13 Article 14 Article 15 Article 16 Article 17 Article 18
Article 19
Schedule A Schedule B
DESCRIPTION	PAGE
Recognition.......................... 2
Management Rights................... 3
No Strikes and No Lockouts........... 4
Union Security....................... 4
Hours of Work........................ 5
Overtime............................. 5
Incentive Plan.....................   6
Reporting and Waiting Time........... 7
Grievance Procedure.................. 8
Arbitration.......................... 9
Discipline and Discharge............ 11
Seniority........................... 12
Job Posting......................... 14
Leave of Absence.................... 15
Vacation With Pay................... 18
Plant Holidays...................... 19
Rest Periods........................ 21
Bereavement......................... 21
Welfare Benefits.................... 22
Pension Plan........................ 23
Term of Agreement................... 24
General............................. 24
Miscellaneous....................... 25
Incentive Workers................... 26
Time Work Classifications........... 27
1
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
This Collective Agreement is made effective this 1st day of April 1994 between:
RENNIE INC.
(herein called the "Company") and
WESTERN ONTARIO JOINT BOARD, AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 740
(herein called the "Union")
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
1.01
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive Collective bargaining agent for all employees of the Company at Guelph, save and except foremen, foreladies, persons above the rank of foremen, foreladies, students employed for the school periods, and office and sales staff.
1.02
The Employer shall recognize and deal with such representatives of the employees and the Union may elect or appoint. Any Union representative shall, upon obtaining permission of the designated official of the Employer have the right to enter the plant, including any of the work rooms, during working hours, for the purpose of investigating any grievance, or dispute arising out of the administration, interpretation, application or alleged violation of the terms of the Agreement. Union
2
representatives or representatives in performing such duties, shall not interrupt or delay production.
1.03
The Employer agrees to make available to the Union a quarterly report of all employees in the Union, showing seniority,job classification, quarterly average or time work rate.
1.04
The Union shall have the right to post notices on a bulletin board or boards to be located in the plant of the Employer at mutually agreeable places, provided such notices first are submitted to the local office of the Employer for approval.
1.05
All Union employees must record the time off their regular work spent on Union business. This "Union business" time will be paid by the Company at average and this amount will be reimbursed to the Company by the Union once each month.
ARTICLE 2
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01
The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
b)	Hire, retire, classify, direct, promote, transfer, disci1 pline, suspend and discharge employees forjust cause, and to increase and decrease working forces;
c)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged, and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of plants, the products to be manufactured
3
and handled, the methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines, tools and equipment to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the design of its products, and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced.
d)	To make, alter and enforce the rules and regulations to be observed by employees;
e)	The Company agrees that the functions and rights of management set forth in the immediately preceding subsections 1), b), c) and d) shall be exercised in the manner consistent with all provisions of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 3
NO STRIKES AND NO LOCKOUTS
3.01
During the term of this Agreement, the Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of,its employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strike, sit-down, work stoppage, either complete or partial, for any reason by the employees acting in combination.
4.01
ARTICLE 4 UNION SECURITY
Membership in the Union shall be required as a condition of employment of each employee.
4.02
All employees who are members of the Union shall as a condition of continued employment, remain members in good standing during the term of this Agreement,
4
4.03
The Employer agrees to deduct at such intervals as may be agreed upon by the parties, from the wages of each of its employees, who are members of the Union, the prescribed dues and to remit the same once each month to the Union with a list of the employees from whom such deductions have been made.
ARTICLE 5 HOURS OF WORK
5.01
The normal hours of work shall be forty (40) per week consisting of each (8) hours per day (7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.) each day Monday to Friday inclusive. The lunch period shall be unpaid, and shall be one-half ('A) hour in duration. The Company does not guarantee to provide work or employment for normal hours or any other hours.
Where possible a four (4) hour notice will be given to an employee when there is not enough work for the full eight (8) hour shift.
5.02
Pays will be handed out every Thursday unless the statutory holiday falls on the Thursday, then the pays will be handed out on Wednesday immediately prior to the statutory holiday.
ARTICLE 6 OVERTIME
6.01
All work in excess of the regular schedule of hours (hours of work 5.01) will be regarded as overtime and paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1%) of his or
5
her piecework earnings or minimum guarantee, whichever is higher, or, in the case of a time-worker, time and one-half (1 'A) of the hourly rate.
ARTICLE 7 INCENTIVE PLAN
7.01
The Company agrees that the Piecework Incentive Plan being operated by the Company as at the effective date of this Agreement shall continue in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
7.02
Standard Piecework Incentive Rates will not be changed, after formal issuance, unless there has been a change of method, material, tooling, equipment, process, location, design or style of product, or unless change by mutual agreement between the parties. Such restrictions shall not apply when changing temporary or estimated Piecework Incentive Rates.
Rates for new operations, changed operations or changed conditions shall be set by the Employer. Rates for new equipment shall be set by the Employer and shall be considered temporary for a maximum period of six (6) months, during which time the Employer shall have the right to modify or change the rate, After the period of six (6) months changing of a rate shall not be done except by mutual agreement.
7.03
Employees assigned work to be performed under the Incentive Plan, may obtain from their immediate Supervisor the Piecework Incentive Rate applicable to such work assignment. If an employee working on an incentive job believes the Standard Piecework Rate to be
6
incorrect, He or she may take the matter up under the Grievance Procedure as herein provided.
7.04
An employee working on an incentive operation who is temporarily assigned to do other work as a convenience to the Company, when work is available for the employee on his or her regular operation, shall be paid his or her average incentive earnings for the duration of the assignment.
7.05
If an employee is temporarily transferred to another job due to lack of work, he or she will be paid the rate of the job. In case of time workers, the employee will be paid the rate of the job to which he or she is temporarily transferred.
7.09
Effective in the second (2nd) year of the Collective Agreement it is understood that increases in piecework bases rate will not be less than the provincial minimum rate.
ARTICLE 8
REPORTING AND WAITING TIME
8.01
Except under circumstances over which the Company has no control, employees who report for work at their regular starting time, in the absence of notice from the Company not to report for work or at an hour designated by the Company, shall have at least four (4) hours of work provided for them, or, in lieu of work, shall be paid at their straight time hourly rate or at their average straight time hourly earnings which ever is the greater, for the four (4) hours. This clause shall not
7
apply in the event of power failure, fire or other c'auses over which the Employer has no control.
Except that employees shall be paid their average hourly rate which they are in the plant whether they work or not until such time as they are told to go home.
8.02
Machine breakage will be paid at average hourly rate (or off-standard rate if the employee was working on that rate) for all time approved by the Supervisor. If a similar machine on the same operation is available, the employee may be temporarily transferred to that machine and will work on a piecework basis.
ARTICLE 9
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01
A grievance may arise only from a dispute concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement.
The grievance shall be submitted in written form, provided by the Union, and signed by the employee directly involved. An earnest effort will be made on the part of both parties to settle such grievances promptly through the following steps:
STEP NO. 1
Between the aggrieved employee and if they wish, the department steward and the supervisor of the department. The supervisor shall reply to the grievance in writing. If the matter is not settle satisfactorily within two (2) working days or any longer term agreed to by the parties the Union may take it to Step. 2.
8
STEP NO. 2
The Local President, or in his or her absence, the Vice-president and the department steward shall present the grievance to the General Manager of the Company or his or her designate at a meeting arranged for that purpose. An answer to the matter shall be given within three (3) days unless a longer period has been agreed to by the parties.
STEP NO. 3
If the grievance has not been settled to the Union's satisfaction, the Local President or in his or her absence, the Vice-president and the Union Business Representative shall present the grievance to the General Manager of the Company and shall have an answer within three (3) days or a longer period of time if agreed to by the parties. If the matter is not settled satisfactorily to the Union then it may be referred to arbitration. Arbitration shall be either a one (1) person board or three (3) person board subject to agreement of the parties.
ARTICLE 10 ARBITRATION
10.01
1)	If the Union and the Employer are unable to adjust any complaint, grievance or dispute, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures provided in Article 9, Clause 9.02, then the matter shall be referred to arbitration.
2)	Arbitration shall be by an impartial Arbitrator.
a)	If an Arbitrator cannot be agreed upon by both parties within one (1) week after a request therefore, then the arbitrator shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario.
9
b)	In the event that either party requests the establishment of a Three-Man Board of Arbitration, such Board shall consist of a Chairman, who shall be agreed upon or appointed in exactly the same manner as the impartial Arbitrator above provided for, a representative chosen by the Union and a representative chosen by the Employer. Board of Arbitration is an alternative to a sole arbitrator and should be by mutual agreement of the parties.
c)	The compensation and the expenses of the impartial Arbitrator or the Board of Arbitration shall, in all cases, be borne equally by the Union and the Employer.
d)	The decision, order, direction, or award of the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Employer, the Union and the employees represented by the Union.
3)	The parties consent that any papers or notices necessary or appropriate to initiate or continue an arbitration hereunder or to confirm, vacate or modify an award, may be served by registered mail directly to the last known address of the Employer and the Union.
4)	The Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the provisions hereof.
5)	Either party may call such arbitration hearing on giving five (5) days notice by registered mail or two (2) days notice by telegram to the other party. The Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration, however, if deemed appropriate by him or them, may call a hearing on shorter notice. The parties consent that arbitration hearings shall be held at such place as the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration shall designate.
10
6)	In the event that any or either party to arbitration shall default in appearing before the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration then the proof of the party appearing may be taken and any decision, order, direction, or award based thereon.
7)	The procedure established in this Agreement for the adjustment of disputes shall be exclusive means for the determination of such disputes, including strikes, stoppages, lockouts, and acts rising therefrom except as expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement.
8)	Nothing in this article shall preclude either party from applying for arbitration under Section 46 of the Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 11
DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
11.01
A claim by an employee that he or she has been unjustly disciplined or a claim by an employee, having acquired seniority standing under this Agreement, that he or she has been discharged without just cause from his or her employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company within three (3) days of the disciplinary action or discharge. Such grievance shall commence at Step No. 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
11.02
A grievance under this section may be settled or disposed of by confirming Management's action, by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost where applicable or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties or of a Board of Arbitration.
II
ARTICLE 12 SENIORITY
12.01
A new employee shall be on probation until after he or she has continuously worked for the Company for a period of three (3) months. If retained, he or she shall then acquire seniority standing, and his or her name shall be placed on the Seniority Record.
12.02
The seniority of any employee shall be considered in the event of permanent lay-offs, demotions or promotions provided that the senior or retained employee is qualified to perform the remaining work. In the event of permanent transfer, temporary transfer or lack of work on an operation the seniority of the operators on that operation shall be considered.
12.03
When an employee is permanently transferred, they shall have fifteen (15) working days on their average rate. If an extension is requested, the Union and the Employer will meet to discuss whether an extension is required. A written notice of permanent transfer shall be received five (5) working days before the transfer is to be made. Where there is no piecework incentive rate the fifteen (1 5) working days will begin the day after the incentive rate has been set.
12.04
An employee's name shall be removed from the Seniority Record on termination of his or her employment for any reason whatsoever. Employees having been on lay-off for over a six (6) month period shall have their names removed from the Seniority Record.
12
12.05
Whenever an employee absents himself or herself from work, he or she shall, within twenty-four (24) hours, provide an acceptable reason to the Company, and shall notify the Company by messenger, mail or telephone. When an employee is absent from work on account of sickness, he or she shall on his or her return be reinstated in employment in accordance with his or her seniority rights as provided herein, provided proper notification of his or her intended return has been given to the Company, and provided that his or her health is sufficiently restored to do the work involved, and that the length of absence as been acceptable to the Company.
12.06
Seniority records shall be maintained by the Company, and a seniority list shall also be prepared by the Company at least every six (6) months. Copies of such lists shall be posted in the plant, and shall be furnished to the Union. The first (1st) seniority list prepared by the Company shall be accepted as correct by the employees and the parties hereto after one (1) month has elapsed from the date of posting. Any adjustments made to the list, as the result of challenges within the aforementioned period, shall be by mutual consent of the parties. The Union shall be furnished a copy of the first (1st) seniority list within one (1) month of the signing of the first (1st) Agreement by the parties.
12.07	JOB POSTING
The Company shall post in prominent areas all job vacancies for a period of three (3) working days. The senior qualified applicant will be given preference. Once an employee has successfully bid for another job he or she shall have a thirty (30) day familiarization period to achieve regular standard. The Company will supply the
13
Union with a list of the names of all applicants as well as the successful applicant, Employees may not bid until they have one (1) years' service and must be a minimum efficiency of one hundred percent (100%) with a satisfactory quality and attendance record. A successful applicant cannot apply for another posted job until one (1) year from the date of transfer.
12.08	LAYOFFS AND RECALL CLAUSE
Layoffs and recall to work after a temporary layoff (twenty (20) working days or less) will be by operation or similar operation and shall be governed by the employee's plant seniority within that operation.
Layoffs and recall to work from an indefinite layoff (twenty-one (21) working days or more) will be on the basis of plant wide seniority. Employees will retain recall rights for a period of one year and will be entitled to their previous job or a similar job or they will have the right to accept or decline one other available job.
This provision is subject to the requirement that the senior employee possesses sufficient skill and ability to satisfactorily perform the work to be done.
The most senior employee shall be the last person laid off and the first recalled providing there is work they are able to perform.
ARTICLE 13 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
13.01
Leave of absence shall be granted an employee upon request if an employee is ill or a member of their immediate family is seriously ill. Their immediate family to include the employee's brother, sister, husband, wife,
14
son, 'daughter, father or step-father (not both), mother or step-mother (not both), legally adopted children and common-law spouse (with proof). Illness shall be certified by a doctor's certificate, from the employee's personal physician, if required, or at the Company's expense the Company may require the employee to attend an independent medical examination by a mutually agreed upon doctor, at some time during the period of disability. Leave on account of illness shall include maternity cases subject to the following conditions,
a)	Employee with less than three (3) months of service shall not be granted a leave of absence.
b)	Employee with more than three (3) months of service but less than six (6) months of service shall be granted up to a maximum of six (6) months leave of absence for personal illness only (not to include maternity leave) and shall be given preference in subsequent hiring.
c)	Employees with more than six (6) months of service but less than one (1) year of service shall be granted leave of absence for personal illness (not to include maternity leave) up to a maximum of one (1) year, previous job to be guaranteed for the first six (6) months with preference in any subsequent hiring for the second (2nd) six (6) months.
d)	Employees with six (6) months of service but less than one (1) year of service shall be granted maternity leave up to a maximum of six (6) months with previous j ob guaranteed for the first (1st) six (6) months and preference given in any subsequent hiring for the next six (6) months.
e)	Employees with one (1) year or more of service shall be granted maternity leave up to a maximum of one (1) year with previous job guaranteed for the first (1st) six
IS
(6) months and preference given in any subsequent hiring for the second (2nd) six (6) months.
f)	Employees with more than six (6) months of service shall be granted leave of absence for illness in the immediate family up to a maximum of three (3) months with previous job guaranteed.
g)	Employees with more than one (1) year of service shall be granted leave of absence for personal illness (not to include maternity leave) up to a maximum of one (1) year with previous job guaranteed for the first (1st) six (6) months and a job of similar nature guaranteed for the second (2nd) six (6) months.
13.02
a)	The initial leave of absence for employees with three (3) months of service but less than six (6) months of service shall be one (1) month, such leave of absence may be extended for an additional period of one (1) month each up to maximum of six (6) months.
b)	The initial leave of absence for employees with six (6) months or more of service shall not be more than three (3) months, this leave may be extended for additional periods of one (1) month each up to a maximum of one (1) year.
13.03
It is understood that leaves of absence and extensions not herein provided may under certain exceptional circumstances, shall not be unreasonably denied. Leave of absence and extensions under such exceptional circumstances shall be subject to agreement between the Employer and the Union.
13.04
Any employee who has been absent on account of 16
sickness, upon return to work, must be physically able to perform the work available. The Employer may demand a doctor's certificate as evidence of physical capacity,
1305
In case aj ob or operation has been abolished during an employee's absence, such provisions shall apply to reemployment as would have applied had such employee been at work at the time thej ob or operation was abolished.
13.06
Leave of Absence without loss of seniority shall be granted to a reasonable number of employees elected to act as representatives of the Union, or as delegates to Union conventions, conferences, and other similar functions. Such employees shall be reinstated to their respective previous jobs, operations or machines upon return to work, provided that the leave is two (2) weeks or less. In the event of a leave of absence of more than two (2) weeks for any of the foregoing reasons such employee shall be reinstated to his or her previous job and insofar as practicable to the same operation or machine. An employee on leave of absence as a delegate to a Union convention, conference or other similar functions shall be entitled to holiday pay for any holiday which occurs during such leave.
13.07
Any employee who is granted a leave of absence under this Article shall be given a written authorization thereof by the Employer, which authorization shall include the dates of the beginning and the end of the leave of absence. A copy of said authorization shall be sent to the Union within one (1) week of the granting of the leave of absence. Employees on leave of absence wishing an extension should make application for such extension prior to the expiration date of the granted leave of absence.
17
13.08
Additional time off (not to exceed one (1) month) for reasons other than sickness, to be eligible the employee must have five (5) years seniority and once every five (5) years thereafter. Adequate notice must be given so that production difficulties can be worked out.
13.09
If an employee is required to be absent from work because he or she is called for jury duty or summoned to be a crown witness, the Employer will reimburse the employee for the difference between his or her average
hourly rate or time work rate for the time he or she is away and the amount the court pays him or her for appearing.
In order to qualify an employee must supply the Employer with the necessary receipts showing the
amount paid to the employee by the court.
ARTICLE 14 VACATION WITH PAY
14.01
Until further notice from the Company the plant will be closed for a two (2) week period each year during which time employees will be accorded their annual vacation.
14.02
For the purpose of calculating the vacation pay, the calculation period shall be from June 1st of the previous calendar year to May 3 1st of the current calendar year.
14.03
The calculation period will be calculated based on the employee's anniversary date of hire in accordance with the following schedule.
18
Number of Years	Vacation	Time Off For
of Service	Payment	Vacation
Less than 1 year	4%	
1 year	4%	1 week
2 years	4%	2 weeks
5 years	6%	3 weeks
10 years	8%	4 weeks
20 years	10%	5 weeks
30 years	12%	6 weeks
35 years	14%	7 weeks
14.04
The time off for vacations shall be taken during the vacation period (which is the day after the plant shut down to the end of plant shut down) which coincides with the calculation period.
14.05
Third (3rd) week of vacation to be taken between Christmas and New Years or at whatever time as agreed to by the parties, but subject to as production scheduling allows and by seniority.
ARTICLE 15 PLANT HOLIDAYS
15.01
The Company shall pay to those employees who have acquired seniority standing for normal hours ordinarily worked at the employees applicable rate of pay for the following twelve (12) statutory holidays subject to the further provisions set forth in this article:
New Years Day Canada Day Labour Day Good Friday	Boxing Day	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Civic Holiday	Christmas Day
19
Three (3) Floating Holidays (to be set by mutual agreement and this shall be established early in each year).
Should any of the holidays fall on a non-working day, the day celebrated as such shall be considered the holiday or in accordance with the "EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ACT.
15.02
1)	An employee absent from work without reasonable cause on the last scheduled day before or the last scheduled workday after the holiday shall not be entitled to the holiday pay. (The last scheduled day shall mean the last day an employee was scheduled to work prior to the layoff or illness). Reasonable cause shall include the following:
a)	Personal illness of the employee or serious illness of his or her immediate family, as described under Leave of Absence, Article 13, Clause 13.01, The Employer may request a doctor's certificate or other adequate proof thereof.
b)	Death in the immediate family of the employee.
c)	Excused absence by the Employer for any reason.
d)	Absence from work because work is unavailable.
2)	An employee who is absent from work during the entire week in which the holiday occurs shall not be entitled to holiday pay unless such absence is occasioned by personal illness certified by a doctor's certificate or layoff.
15.03
Time worked on the above mentioned holidays shall be paid for at double time of his or her piecework eam-
20
ings or minimum guarantee, whichever is higher, or in the case of a time worker, double time of his or her hourly rate.
15.04
In the event that more than one (1) holiday is included in time off an employee who is absent from work without reasonable cause on the work day before or the work day after the holiday shall be penalized no more than one (1) day's holiday pay for each day's absence.
ARTICLE 16 REST PERIODS
16.01
A rest period of ten (10) minutes shall be allowed during each half shift.
The lunch period shall be unpaid, and shall be one-half (%) hour in duration.
ARTICLE 17 BEREAVEMENT
17.01
a)	All employees, except probationary, shall be entitled to a maximum of three (3) working days off with pay for bereavement in the immediate family. Immediate family to include the employee's father, mother, father-in-law,
mother-in-law, spouse or common-law spouse (but not
both), children, sister, brother, adopted children as well as the following members of the family: sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparent-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, stepchildren, grandparent and grandchild.
b)	In the case of out of province death, bereavement will be for four (4) days, without loss of earnings in order to arrange for and attend funeral or memorial, if attending.
21
c)	If a death occurs in the family and the employee is unable to attend because of distance and / or the employee is advised of the death after the funeral has taken place, they will be granted leave of absence with pay for the day of the funeral or the day after notification has been received. One (1) day.
d)	An employee requesting a leave of absence under above Clauses a, b, c shall submit evidence satisfactory to the Company if requested in order to receive payment for leave of absence.
e)	It is understood employees do not have to attend the funeral in order to be eligible for their bereavement paid time off.
ARTICLE 18 WELFARE BENEFITS
18.01
The Company agrees to assume ninety percent (90%) of the cost of the Group Life and Prescription Drug, after the employee has completed three (3) months of continuous service. Effective January 1, 1989 the Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of Group Life and Prescription Drug Plan.
a) The Company agrees to assume one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the Ontario Health Insurance Plan (O.H.I.P.) rates in effect as of January 1, 1987 for all eligible active employees. Thereafter, any increase in rates will be shared equally between the Employer and the employee.
To qualify for enrollment in the group insurance and prescription drug programmes, the employee must have completed three (3) months of continuous service and coverage will start the first (1st) of the month following completion of said three (3) months of continuous service.
22
Employees will be enrolled in the Ontario Health Insurance Plan in accordance with O.H.I.P. regulations. All employees will be enrolled after completion of fourteen (14) working days except for employees who are exempt under O.H.I.P, regulations and have completed a request for exemption form in duplicate.
18.02
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
Coverage for eligible employees:
Group Life Insurance — $5,000.00.
Unemployment Insurance Sick Benefit Programme — 662/3% of earnings.
Group Medical and Surgical Insurance — O.H.I.P. Group Hospitalization — Standard Ward Care —
Prescription Drug Programme —90% of Prescription Drugs Coverage for eligible dependents —
Same as 3, 4, and 5 above.
18.03	PENSION PLAN
The Pension Plan will be a defined contribution plan with the Employer paying one percent (1%) on all earnings accrued (less vacation and statutory holiday pay) to all qualified employees. The employee will match the Employer's contribution. If an employee leaves within a two (2) year period both employee and Employer's contribution will be refundable under the Ontario Pension Benefits Act.
23
ARTICLE 19 TERM OF AGREEMENT
19.01
This Collective Agreement shall become effective on the 1 st day of April 1 Q.Q4. and shall continue in effect until the 31st day of March 1997. and from year to year thereafter unless either party gives notice to the other party hereto of an intent to terminate or amend this agreement. Such notice shall be given in writing not earlier than one hundred and twenty (120) days, and at least prior to the expiry date of this agreement, or of any subsequent period in which this agreement remains in force.
GENERAL
#6	TRANSFERS OUT OF THE
BARGAINING UNIT
a)	Any employee who is transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit and is transferred back to the bargaining unit will be regarded as a new hiree and will not have any seniority status. However, the employee will maintain their years of service for the purposes of vacation, severance and / or pension.
b)	In cases where an employee is transferred into the bargaining unit and had not been previously in the bargaining unit will also come under the same terms and conditions as stated above and their seniority shall begin as that of a new hiree.
It is also understood that no employee from (a) or (b) above will displace another bargaining unit employee, or be placed into a vacancy, prior to the vacancy being posted. In cases of posted vacancies preference will always be given to bargaining unit employees first, and any previous experience the employee had who is returning to the bargaining unit with, will not be considered.
24
UNION REPRESENTATION
#7
Employees will be allowed to have a union representative present at a meeting where an employee is given any form of discipline.
MISCELLANEOUS
1,	The Company will pay for Doctor's fees for notes or reports requested by the Company.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement on the 12th day of July 1994 at Guelph, Ontario
FOR THE COMPANY
John Rennie John Couto
FOR THE UNION
Stella Anderson Jennifer Bennett Ken Baker Gerry Holmes
25
SCHEDULE A
PAY RATES FOR INCENTIVE WORKERS:
1,	Base rate for sewing machine operators:
July 14, 1994 - $6.70 April 1, 1995 - $6.85 April 1, 1996 - $7.00
2,	Base rate for packaging and hand operators:
July 14,1994 - $6.58 April 1, 1995 - $6.73 April 1, 1996 - $6.88
3.	Off standard rate for sewing machine operators: April 1, 1994 - $7.44
4,	Off standard rate for packaging and hand operators: April 1, 1994 - $7.29
To be eligible for this rate an operator must have an established quarterly average as good or higher than it. If an operator's established quarterly average is less than the off standard rate the operator will be paid his or her established quarterly average.
This rate applies to waiting for work when an operator is caught up.
26
SCHEDULE "B
PAY RATES FOR TIME WORK CLASSIFICATIONS:
1. Service, Cleaner:
7/1994	4/1995	4/1996
Start
3 months 6 months 9 months 12 months
$ 6.70 6.97 7.24 7.51 7,79
$ 6.70
7.01 7.32 7.63 7.94
$ 6.70
7.04 7.39
7.74
8.09
2.	Stockroom, Receiving, Utility, Repair,
Assembler, Stamping, Die Cutting, Re-Cutting, Ticket Marking, Bar Coding:
7/1994	4/1995	4/1996
Start 3 months 6 months 9 months 12 months
6.70	$ 6.70	$ 6.70
7.27	7,30	7.34
7.84	7.91	7.99
8.41	8,52	8.63
8,98	9,13	9.28
3.	Lift truck drivers:
Start 3 months 6 months 9 months 12 months
7/1994
$ 6.70 7.66 8.63 9.60 10.57
4/1995
$ 6,70
7.70
8.71
9.71 10.72
4/1996
$ 6.70
7.74 8.78 9.82 10,87
27
SCHEDULE "B" (Continued)
PAY RATES FOR TIME WORK CLASSIFICATIONS:
4.	Lay up, Power Cutter, Computerized Cutter: 7/1994	4/1995	4/1996
Start 3 months 6 months 9 months 12 months
$ 6.70	$ 6.70	$ 6.70
7.72	7.76	7.80
8.75	8.82	8.90
9.77	9.88	10.00
10.80	10.95	11.10
5 Marker:
Start 3 months 6 months 9 months 12 months 15 months 18 months 21 months 24 months 27 months
7/1994	4/1995	4/1996
$ 6.70	$ 6.70	$ 6.70
7.28	7.29	7.31
7.86	7.89	7.93
8.44	8.49	8.54
9.02	9.09	9.16
9.61	9.69	9.77
10.19	10.29	10.39
10.77	10.89	11.00
11.35	11.49	11.62
11.94	12.09	12.24
28