AGREEfl/IEN1
Mu Af	I *"*'	‘ " '«•
No. Of EMPLOYEES'
.W-'
3
NOMfiRE
o'fMPiorfsl

between
CLUETT, PEABODY CANADA INC.
The Arrow Aompany
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES
LOCAL 303A
MARCH 30,1998 TO MARCH31, 2001
0WWI1
Hii jul x j m d
00907 (05)
TABLE OF COINTENTS
I
Artirlp I OOVFRAGF		
Article II RECOGNITION		
Article III UNION SECURITY	
Article IV MANAGEMENT RIGHTS		
Article V PROBATIONARYPERIOD and SENIO Article VI WAGES		tITY	
Article VII HOURS OF WORK and OVERTIME Article VIII EQUAL DIVISION OF WORK	
	
Article IX DISCHARGES	
Article X GRIEVANCE PROCEDUREand ARBI Article XI STRIKES. STOPPAGES and LOCKC Article XII HEALTH and SAFETY Article XIII EXISTING PLANT PRACTICES ... Article XIV LEAVE OF ABSENCE A Mprliral 		Nation 	 TS
	
	
B. Comnasfiinnate		
C. Matemity/Parental .	
D. Non-Paid Personal,...	
E Union Fxecutive		
F. Bereavement		
a Jury nntv . ..	
Article XV VACATION		
Article XVI STATUTORY HOLIDAYS		
Article XVII EMPLOYEEWELFARE 		
Article XVIII TERMS OF AGREEMENT	
Schedule" A Pay Structure• Targeted Ear Job Classes A Manual Sewing Operatio	ng Levels	
1
2
2'
3
3
4
7
12
14
14
15
15
16
17
18 18
19
20 20 21
25
27
Agreement made as of the thirtieth (30lh) day of Marcn is yo, between THE ARROW COMPANY a division of CLUETT, PEABODY CANADA INC. (hereijiafU r referred to as the "Company'’) and the UNION OF NEEDLETRADES,INDUSTRIAL AND TE^Tl E EMPLOYEES, LOCAL 303A KITCHENER (hereinafterreferredto as the "Union").
Itisthe intent and purposeofthe Company and the Unioi that this Agreement shall promoteand improve industrial and economic relationshipsbetwer n the Company and its employees and set forth provisionswith respectto wages, hoursofwork, and pond i ions of employment of the employees of the Company.
Itis expected that the representativeof both parties and in all their dealings, the co-operative spirit of the that amity and spirit of goodwill, which it is the purpo
tj) this /greement shall demonstrate in the shop \green ent and shall be leaders in promoting se of t h s instrumentto establish.
Inconsiderationofthe premises and the mutual agreements of the parties hereinafterset forth, the Company and the Union agree as follows:
Article 1 - COVERAGE
The term "Employee"or "Employees" as used inthisJAj reement means all of the bargainingunit employees at the Benton Street Plantand the Trilliun t rive Warehouse.
Excluding executives, supervisory employees, Qvr,0jimcntQi
expei rnent.fl ard professionalemployees, quality inspectors, technical and administrative employees, seemly employees, cafeteria employees,
company store employees, clerical and office employees or othc r employees exercising a managerial function or employed in a confidential capacity.
Those employeeswho are includedin the collective bargaining i nit at the effective date ofthis Agreement, shall be covered by the Agreement and those who ? re not so covered shall be excluded from the Agreement.
Inthe eventthat Cluett, Peabody Canada Inc. relocate!, the Benton Street Plant or the Trillium Drive warehouse to another locationwithin the Province c f Onta no, thi Company agrees that they will abide by the applicable laws of the Province of Ontario governini relocationand that they will consult with the Union, as to the processofthe relocation-.
Whereverthe masculinegender appears in this Agreement it sht II be construed as meaning maleor female, unlessthe context of the relative clause requires otherwise
Article II - RECOGNITION
A)	The Company recognizesthe Union as the excic sive barj aining representativeof its employees as defined in Article I,with reference towages, hours and working conditions.
B)	The Company shall recognizeand deal with supn represertatives ofthe employees as the Union may elect or appoint. All Union Stewards and tie Union President shall be seniority employees of the Company. The Unionwill provide tlje Company with a list of all local Union representatives.
C)	Any Union representative shall, upon obtaining! permission ofthe designated official ofthe Company, have the rightto enter either plant, includir g any ofthe wcrk rooms, during working hours, for the purposecf investigatingany grievance, ordisf ute arising cutcf the administration, interpretation, applicationor alleged violation ofthe te rms of this Agree ment. Union representativeor representatives, in performingsuch duties, shall not I iterrupt or delay production. Any conference between any Union representativesand any group ot employees, f held on the Company's premises during working hours, shall first be arranged with the pompany.
D)	The Company agrees to make available to thel union, upon request, such payroll records, production records, methods or sequence of element 3 records as the Ur ion may reasonably require in the performance of its duties as the collective barabining agent for the employees covered by this Agreement.
E)	The union shall have the rightto post notices or a bulletin board or boards, provided such notices first are submittedto the Company for approva. The Compary agrees that approval shall not unreasonably be withheld.
F)	Inthe event of layoff of more than one (1) week, the Union reserves the rightto retaina senior steward on staff providedthat there are production pjeople working.
G)	Supervisors and Floor Persons shall not perfdrm work normally dor e by bargaining unit employees exceptfor the purpose of instructing, trailing, repairs, fault conection, samples which require special construction or servicing work to emf loyees in the temporary absence of service personnel. Exceptions may also be made in cases if emergency or when nc bargaining unit employee is available.
Article 111 - UNKJN SECURITY
A)	Membership inthe Uniion shall be required a$ a condition of employment of achempl yee.
B)	All employees who are now members or hereinafter become members ofthe Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, remain members in good standing during the term of this Agreement.
C)	The Company agrees to deduct, as instructed by the Union, from the wages of each of its employees, who are membe rs of the bargaining unit and who have authorized the same, the prescribed dues, commencing the first (1st) day of Employment, and to remitthe same once each month to the Union.
Article (V - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The anion recognizesthat it is the exclusive right of tile Company to r anage its plants and direct the work force, in particular:
1.	To maintainorder, discipline and efficiency.
2.	To layoff, transfer, promoteor demote.
3.	To discipline or dischargeemployees fey just cause.
4.	To hire and to make appointments to supervisory capacity
5.	To managethe industrialenterprises inlwhich the Compar y Is engaged, determinethe productsto be manufactured,the methods of manufacturii g, the schedule of production, the kinds and location of mach nes and equiprrentto be used, the processes of manufacturing and the nafure and quality of its products.
6.	The Company may establish productivity and quality stands rds for all jobs and al employees must reasonably meet or exceed the required productivity and quality standards.
The foregoing enumeration shall not be deemed to dxMude other rights of the Company not specifically set forth, the Company therefore retains al rights not specifically covered by this Agreement. The exercise by the Company of any o1 tl e foregoing rights or any other rights of the Company shall not alter any of the specific provisionp c f the Agreement no- shall they be inconsistent with any ofthe terms of this Agreement.
Article V - PROBATIONARYIPLRIOD AND SENIORITY
A)	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
1.	All new employees shall serve a probationary pe cases, the Company shall havethe ric^it, upon noti< for an additional period, notto exceedtwenty (20) v
od of sixty (60) working days. In exceptional e to the Union, to extend the probationary period orking days.
2.	All probationary employees will be required to mpet or exceer performance standards and quality standards that are established by the Company.
3.	The Company shall informthe Union of all new Employees hin d and employees whose services have beenterminated.
4.	Itwill be the policy of the Company to give consideration of employment to such qualified an satisfactory workers as the Union may referto the Company.
5) SENIORITY
An employee shall lose all seniority for any of the following
1.	ifhe/she voluntarily resignsor retires.
2.	ifhe/she is terminated for just cai se ai d is not subsequently reinstated.
3.	ifhe/she is laid off for a period ex :eeding one year
4.	ifhe/she is not on an approved lejave of absence
Article VI - VJ/AGES
A)	WAGERATES
Employeesshall receivea copy and explanation of afliy corrections mpde by the supervisor on their time cards within one (1) working day of the change qeing made.
Wages shall be paid in accordancewith time work iup> or piece work rt tes as outlined in Schedule “A". Any changes in an individualtime rate or piece i ate shall be made I y mutual agreement of the parties. Itis understoodthat increasesin piecework base rates may be necessarv due to chanties ir Provincialminimum rates, in orderto maintain adequ ate incentive pull. It s also understoodthat such changes may be made by mutualagreement of the parties. Any infc rmation with respect*0 piecework rates and wages, which is supplied by the Company to the Unk n, will be kept confidential betweenthe parties concerned.
B)	NEW OR CHANGED OPERATION
The Company and the Union agree that a new operation, changed operatic nor changed condition, may temporarily affect an employee’s earnings while in the process of leaning and adjusting thereto, The Company, therefore agrees that in the absence of a retraining incentive, that they will pay to the affected employee, his average hourly rate as define d in Section “D" until a r ew piece rate isfixed in accordancewith SectionX" and the average hourly rate of the affected emplovee shall be guaranteed for a periodto be mutually agreed upon In the alternative, the cc mpany may use a retraining incentive, which shall be fixed to enable tt e employee to reasonably maintainthe earnings level as outlined in Schedule“A’’for a job grouping, which he is in the process of learning or while adjusting to a new operation, changed operation or phanged condition.
C)	SETTING PIECE RATES
I -Rates for new operations, changed operations ot changed conditions shall be set by the Company. Rates for new equipment shall be set by the Company and shall be considered temporary for a maximum period of six (6) months, during which time the Company shall have the right to modify or changethe rate. After the period cf six (q) months, changing of a rate shall not be done except by mutualagreement.
2.	100% efficiency shall reflectthe time required foflr a normal operator working under normal conditions at a normal pace (100%) using prescribed methods to produce a normal piece that will pass the quality standards. Production standards will be established on all incentive, operations, so that a qualified operatorworking at incentive pace will have earnings opportunity of at least 130% of the base rate.
3.	Both parties agree that the new rate should be givan fair trial. The rate shall be set, as soon as practical, usingthe base ratethatiiis applicable to the >ai cularjob group, as outlined in Schedule" A Int. eventthe qualificationsof tltne job havechanget, a ewjob grouping will be mutuallydecided
on betweenthe Company and the Union. After the trfc usingthe grievance procedure.
p« iod, the Union, mayquestionthe new rate
4.	Upon conclusionof a time study and before the tinjie si dy observer leavesthe operation, hewill, if requested, supply in writing to ttfne operator the following
a)	the exact total time over which the time ptudy took place
b)	the exact time (minus strike-outs) of theltime study;
. the effort rating per element, if used;
the number of pieces studied.
5,	The Company agrees that no employee will sufferls loss of earnings during a time study provided that the employee demonstratestheir usual skill and pfl rt during the study.
6.	Ifan employee increases his earnings through hid own skill or effoi onthe prescribed method and can still meetthe Health, Safety and Quality requirenpenls of the opera ion, this will not be interpreted as a changed condition.
7.	All methods, including new or changed methods, bargaining unit employees, become the property of th be a "trainable" method by the Engineering Departm 3 retrainedunderthe new method and a Maintenance methods must meetthe Health, Safety and Quality
whether conceive' byManagementor e Company. Ifaiew method is considered to i t,.a I employees onthe operationwill be of Earnings policy will apply All new or changed requirements of the operatior
D)	AVERAGE HOURLY RATES
Average hourly rate meansthe employee's straight Jin e average earned for the last available quarterly period not includingtime worked at the mil in urn guarantee. This rate is adjustedto give effectto any change in earnings on the operation (n isi Iting from any adjustment in piecework rates after commencementof the period). Average rates wi be computed on a quarterly basis, with the new average being issued as of the last Monday of Mi rch, June, September and December. Any wage adjustmentswill be included in this quarterly dveraaf
The average hourly rate will be the rate paid to piecja workers, working on a timework basis, where the terms of this contract call for this rate.
E)	MINIMUM RATES
F) TEMPORARY TRANSFER
Ifai. jmployee is temporarily transferred from one job or operationto anotherjob or operation, he shall, while working on the job or operation to which hja has been transferred, be paid his current average hourly rate as defined in Section "D" of this Ancle, or piece rate earnings on the operation, whichever is greater. In case of a time worker, heshpl be paid his timework rate.
G) PERMANENTTRANSFER
I Jfthejob or operation ceases to exist, theemploy|e may be placed inany open position, apply for a Job Posting, exercise his rightto Bump another employee, or accept layoff.
2.	A pieceworker will be paid piecework earnings If questedto do his job or operation on another product. Earningswill be included in the calculation* the employee's average hourly rate.
3.	If an employee is permanently transferred at hisn at a rate of half the amount betweenthe employee'^ newjob or the employee's average hourly rate, whic set.
uest to anotherjob or operation hewill be paid erage hourly rate and the earning level of the /er is lower, until a retraining program can be
4.	If an employee is permanently transferred at the hewill be paid his average hourly rate until a retraini receivewritten notice of the transfer from the company at leastfive (5) days before the transfer is effective.
Company's requestto anotherjob or operation, ig program can be set. The employee will
5.	An employee permanently transferred to atimevfork operation shall be paid the time work rate of the appropriate time work category, based on their j ervice with the company.
6.	An employeetransferring from one(1) shift to another, on the samejob or operation, shall retain his current average hourly rate.
H)	REPORTING FOR WORK
Employeesshall be paid their established time worlj or piecework earningsfor allwork performed betweenthe regular starting time and the hourthey|iv\e dismissed, but in no event shall they be paid lessthan:
1.	Four (4) hours if the employee works bn eight (8) hour shift.
2.	Three (3) hours if the employeeworkl a six (6) hour shift.
3.	Two (2) hours if the employee works; \ four (4) hour shift.
This clause shall not apply in the event of power fa hire, fire or other causes overwhich the Company has no control. The Company does train and provi de reliefworkers for the normal absences. However, it cannot cover every situation and there ore, failure of other employees to reporttowork shall be considered cause overwhich the Compan/ has no control. Inthe case of powerfailure, fire or other causes, which the Company has no contn I over, employeesshall be paid their average hourly rate, while they are inthe plant but waiting tb work, until such time as they are instructedto go home.
rehu itinj < iun:h onlys
ipor^rily
IQS
ivaila
lece
/ vers
Vf
jle, tli ork basis.
employee, while •nstratefreasonab
IS CF wJdrk AND OVERTIME
II be forh[ (40) hours per week, from Monday to Friday
p.m., Mtnday through Friday npaid lujich break.
shift is required the hours
mutually sfareed upon by the Corr
B)	OVERTIME
Overtimewill be paid at the rate of time and onehal hours on any regularworkday, Monday through Fri
Overtimewill be paid at the rate of time and onehal
Overtimewill be paid at the rate of double time f2X as noted in Article XVI.
Ill 1/2X) for all hoursworked over eight (8)
, as noted in A) above.
[I/2X) for all hoursworked on a Saturday.
r all hoursworked on a Sunday or on a Holiday
Inthe eventthatjanitors or other employeeswork a fe Saturday or Sunday or a Holiday as part of their regularly scheduled work week, they will work t their regular rate <£ pay with no overtime.
There shall be no pyramidingof overtime or ofpre Bn pay underthe provisionsofthis contract.
C)	CALCULATING OVERTIME PAY
Ove...me premium pay shall be calculated in the following manner:
I -In the case of an hourly rated employee, at the employee's ests Wished hourly rate at the time such overtimewas worked.
2.	Inthe case of a piecework employee, at the employee's averac e hourly rate as defined in Article VI, SectionD.
D)	ALLOCATING OVERTIME
In allocating overtimework, on any job or operation, preierence shall be given to employees regularly employed on such job or operation, and insofaras practical, suet overtime shall be distributed equally.
Employeeswith medical restrictionswill not beasked to work overtime if such overtimewould be detrimentalto their recovery.
E)	REST PERIODS
Existing practicewith referenced rest periods shall Continue as heretofore unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the parties.
F)	EMERGENCY CALL IN
An employee, who leaves the workplace and is subsequently called back to work on an emergency basis priorto but not contiguousto his nextschedulod shift will be paidthree (3) hours pay at his regular ratefor the first hour (or any partthe first hour if he is requiredfor less than an hour). For all time in excess cf one (1) houron this emergency, will receive pay at two (2) times his regular hourly rate.
NOTE: Thiswill notapplyto previouslyarrangedal id scheduled overtime.
Article VIII - EQUAL DIVISION OF WORK
A)	TEMPORARY SHORTAGE OF WORK
Whenever there is a temporary shortage of work on dn iperatlon (less than the equivalent of one week’s work for one employee) the Company will poljthi employees on that operation, in order of seniority, providing there is another position or opening ir anotherarea, to determine if anyone\vould'; volunteerto accept a temporary transferto another pp ition. If no one opts for a transfer, or ifthere is no other position or opening to transferto, tthen thd shortage ofwork will be resolvedas inB).
B)	Whenever there is a temporary shortage of wop 01 an operation (where the shortage is known to beat leastthe equivalent of one (1) week's worker on< (1) employee) the Company agrees to pollthe employeeson that operation to determine:
1.	if someone wishes a short term layoff (jnlnirr u m of one (1) week);
2.	if someone would like to use up some earned vacation
3.	if employees would preferto share the {available work s nd experience some short time.
1 no one opts for I or 2 and 3 is not unanimous, the [Company will imestlgate the possibility of transferringthe leastsenior employee to another operation, if availab e. If no alternate position is available, temporary layoff may be required.
C)	JOB ELIMINATION
IF a job or operation ceases to exist, the employee displaced may:
1.	be placed in an open position
cr 2.	apply to ajob posting
cr 3.	exercise his rightto “bump" another ertmloyee
or 4.	accept a layoff
The Companywill make every reasonable effort to reassign any em; loyee whosejob is eliminated, when a singlejob is eliminated or when a complete pperation is elim rated due to overstaffing or method changes.
I.The employee(s) will be offered any jobs which ^re available at tt e time of displacementor any jobs which are known to be coming available In the hear future, prov ded the employee has the skill and ability to perform the job.
2.	If a single job is eliminated, the person with the Ibast seniority on 1 hat operation will be transferred to an available job or operation identified by the Cojnpany, provided the employee has the skill anc ability to perform the job.
3.	If a complete operation is eliminated, the seiectipn of available jot s will be governed by seniority in that operation.
4.	If an employee is transferred to another operation at his own requ< st, he relinquishes his rightto return to any of his previous jobs, until an opening pccurs.
5.	If an employee is transferredto anotheroperatiofi| *1's own recluest- he cannot bid on another job * “a period of one (1)year.
NOTE: Forthe purposeofthis article, departments arte' defined as
Cutting Room (includes Fabric Stockroom)	Packaging
Backs, Frontsand Sleeves	Plant Maintenance
EtonAssembly	Collars and Cuffs
Manual Assembly	Warehouse- General
D)	BUMPING RIGHTS
Ifthe employee does notacceptany cf thejobs offered. he mav exercise his riahtto bump anothe employee.
1.	The employee may bump the lowest person on thk« s eniority list in that departmentprovidedthe employee has the skill and abilityto performthe job p a vi ishes to bump into.
2.	If an employee is bumped by a moreseniorempljbyec and there are still employees with less seniority inthe department, then the employee so difplac ed may use the bumping procedure as described in 1) above.
3.	Bumpingwill not be mandatory from one (1) shiftjto another.
4.	The Company still retainsthe rightto promote or ^ansferenployeestojobs that become vacant through attrition.
5.	Any piecework employee, who has bumpea ano of halfthe amount betweenthe employee's average or the employee's average hourly rate, whichever is
:ner piecework employee, will be paid at a rate hourly rate and the earning level of the newjob lower, untile retraining program can beset.
6.	Any piecework employee, who bumpsa timewojk employee era timework employee who bumps anothertimework employee, shall be paid one (bo p belowthe timework rate of the appropriate timework category, which mostclosely matches thejr established average hourly rate or timework rate before transfer, for thirty (30) days.
7.	Anyone who is bumped intoa lowercategory tinlework job wit be paid the toD rate of the newiob provided that personqualifiesforthetop ratebaseq on length of service.
E)	LAYOFFAND RECALL
Layoffs and recallto work after a temporary layoff (twenty (20)working days or less)will be by operation or similar operation and shall be governefcl by the employee's plant seniority within that operation.
Layoffsand recallto work from an Indefinite Layoff [(twenty one (21) working days or more)will be on the basis cf plantwide seniority.
Employeeswill retain recall rights for a period of on^C ■y>ar- They will be entitled to their previous jo* i similarjob or they will have the righttoacceP*Pr<^ecline one other availablejob, when recalled. The provision is subjectto the requirement that the senior employee hasthe skill and ability to performtheworkto be done.
Wherever possible, the most senior employee shall Pethe last person laid off and the first recalled. The Company agrees to extend a preference in accordance with seniority, to re-employ employees who have been laid off for more than one (1)year. [The status of such re-employedpersons shall be agreed upon by the Union and the Company.
An employeewho accepts recallto a differentplecelworkjob will start at a rateof halfthe amount betweenthe employee's average hourly rate and thi earning level of the new job or the employee's average hourly rate, whichever is lower, until a retrajning prog ram can be established.
An employeewho accepts recallto a differenttime \[/ork job will start at the time work rateofthejob based on their servicewith the Company.
It is understoodthat certain exceptionswill haveta ye made in the layoff and recall order (outside cf plantwide seniority) subjectto skill and ability. Sucli exceptionswill be made by mutual agreement betweenthe Company and the Union.
F)	JOB POSTINGS
When additionaljobs are created orwhen ajob bedorres vacant, the Company shall postsuchjobs for forty-eight (48) hours. The Unionwill begivenajecpy of thejob postings at the time of posting.
The posting shall contain thejob title, the rate of pa^, the department and a brief description of the job duties.
An employee must be employedwith the Comipanyjfor st leasttwelve <a) monthsfrom date of hire before being eligible to apply for a posted job.
The senior employee applyingfor a postedjob will I - the employee has appliedwithrn the
2.	the employee hasthe skill and ability
)e given thejob, providedthat: posting time period.
:o perform the work to be done.
The successfulapplicantapplyingfor a piece worKiioo, will be transferred at a rate of halfthe amount betweenthe employee's average hourly rate and ttje earning level cf the new job oi the employee's average hourly rate, whichever is lower.
The successful applicant applyingfor a time work Ibb will be transferred to thejob stthe timework rate based on their servicewith the Company.
A successful applicant cannot apply for anotherpcjsted job for twelve <J) monthsfrom the date of the previoustransfer.
Jobs, which becomevacant as a result of a transfer* ue to posting, will not necessarilybe posted. The Company may requestthat certainjob vacancie! nol be posted in order to accommodate certain etT., .jyees, who because of injury, illnessor other cii cumstances needto be placed in another positionwhere they may be moresuited. All such renuests will be subjectto mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
G)	TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES PERFORMANCE
An employeewho does not meetthe Company’s propucn vity and quality performance standards cf a job, which they are transferredto within three (3)mopths, may betransferred backto their original job.
Article IX - DISCHARGES
The company retains the rightto discharge for just cfause any employee covered by this agreement. The Company shall notify the Union of the discharge. Upon receipt of said notice, the Unionshall within three (3) working days, present all complaints|of alleged dischargewithoutjust cause to the Company.
If the complaint cannot be adjustedby mutual agreement, it shall be submittedto arbitrationfor determination. The Company shall have the righttolsubmlt the disputed dischargeto arbitrationat anytime aftercomplaint is made by the Union.
Ifthe Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration finds that the reinstatementmay be ordered, and the payment of 11 circumstanceswarrant. This Article shall not apply t d a discharged employee to promplly leave the premls itself constitutejust cause regardlessofthejusticec that the employee hasthe rightto file agrievancew
employee was dischargedwithoutjust cause, ack pay maybe required in such amount as the an employee during his trial period. Failureof es when so ordered bythe Companyshall in r merits of the discharge itself. It is understood th the Union.
Article X - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
A)	The Unionshall designate a representative (herein called the Regional Representative^ each of the plants of the Company. Such Union ref resentatives need not be an employee and may participate i n the investigation and adjustment of an / grievance arising out of this contract. A representative of the Companyshall meet and conijsrwith the Union Regional Representative at any stage of the grievance procedure.
B)	Any complaint, grievance or dispute arising dut of or relating to the provisions of this Agreement, or the interpretation or performance thqreof, shall betaken up for adjustment in the following manner
1“ Betweenthe aggrieved employee, and, if he wishes, the departmental Union representative, on the one hand, and the supervisor of the departmern on the other hand. The supervisor shall give his answer within two (2)wotiking days.
2nd If the manner is notsatisfactorilyadjusted in Start One, the Shop Chairman shall presentthe wr*' n grievance to the General ProductionManagei (Benton St.) orthe Manager- Distribution (Trimum Dr. Warehouse). The company representative shall give hiswritten answerwithin three (3) working days.
3rd Ifthe matteris notsatisfactorilyadjusted inStep iwo, the Unionshall presentthe grievanceto the General Manager, Manufacturing/Engineering or his peslgnate. The Company representativeshall ‘ give his answerwithin five (5) working days.
4th Ifthe matteris notsatisfactorilyadjusted in Step Three, the NationalOfficers ofthe Unionora representativedesignated by them shall presentthelgrievance inwriting to the executive ofthe Company designated by itforthis purpose. Heshalfgive his answer inwriting within ten (10) working days.
a
It is agreed that the Company shall haveacc^ss to the grievance procedure in the same way an employee.
D)	ARBITRATION
/. Ifthe Union and the Company are unableto adjufet any complaint, grievanceor dispute, as the case may be in accordancewith the procedures provided in paragraph "B" of this Article, then the mattershall be referred to arbitration.
2.	Arbitration shall be by an impartialArbitrator.
a)	If an Arbitrator cannot be agreed upon bylboth parties within one ^ l$eek after a request therefore, then the Arbitrator shall be appointed by tpe Minister of Labourofthe Provinceof Ontario.
b)	As an alternativeto a SoleArbitratorbomipames may mutuallyagreeto establish a Three Man Boardof Arbitration. Itshall consist of a Chairman, who shall be agreed upon or appointed in exactly the same manner as the impartialArbitratorland a representative chosen by the Union and a representativechosen by the Company.
c)	The compensationand expenses ofthe InDartial Arbitrator orthe Boardof Arbitration shall, in all cases, be borne equally bythe Union and thdpompany.
d)	The decision, order, direction, or award the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration shall be final, conclusiveand bindingonthe Company, the vhion and the Employees represented by the Union.
3,	The partiesconsentthat any papersor notices necessary or appropriate to initiateor continue an arbitration hereunder, or to confirm, vacate, or modify an award, may be served by registered mail directedto the last known address ofthe Company! and the Union.
4,	The Arbitrator or the Boardof Arbitration shall nbt have any powerto alter any ofthe terms or provisionsof this Agreement or substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, norto give any decision inconsistentwith the provisions hereqf.
5.	Either party may call such arbitration hearingon giving five (5) days notice by registered mail or two f2) days notice by telegram to the other party. 71 eAibitrator or Board of Arbitration, however, if det...,ed appropriate by him or them, may call a head ig or shorter notice. The parties consent that arbitration hearings shall be held at such place as th4 Arbi rator or Board of Arbitration shall designate.
6.	I nthe eventthat any or either party to arbitrationdlhal default in appearing beforethe Arbitrator or: Boardof Arbitration, then the proof of the partyappea.rinc may betaken and any decision, order, direction, or award, basedthereon.
7.	The procedureestablished inthisAgreementforth means for the determination of such disputes, Includi l therefrom except as expressly provided otherwise in
e adjustment of disputes shall be the exclusive g strikes, stoppages, lockouts, and acts arisinc .hisagreement.
Article XI - STRIKES, STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS
Since this Agreement provides for an orderly method for the adjustment of disputes, all strikes,
stoppages, slowdowns and lockouts are prohibited.
should occur, the Unionshall immediately order the workers to returntowork Ifa strike, stoppage,
slowdown or lockoutoccurs, the aggrieved party sha
hearing beforethe Arbitratoror Boardof Arbitration c n four (4) hours notice
Article M - HEALT i AND SAFETY
f, however, a strike, stoppage or slowdown
have the rightto demand an immediate
A)
DUTYTO ACCOMMODATE
Itis the duty ofthe Companyto providesuitableemflloyment compatible with an employee’s functional abilities, for any employee unableto perform his regularduties as a resultcf a work related injury.
B)
DUTY OF THE EMPLOYEETOCO-OPERAT'E
It isthe duty ofthe employee unableto performhisrjagular duties, as the result of a work related
injury, to co-operate in a modified work planand pe functional abilities as approvedby the employee's p Board, as soon as it isprovidedto the company.
brm modifiedwork, compatiblewiththeir lysiclan and the Workplace Safety & Insurance
C)	MODIFIED D UNJOBS
Modified Duty Jobs, will be assigned to employees, inableto performtheirregularjob, as long as the duties are compatiblewith the employee’sfunction; abilities or medical restrictions.
D)	RESTRICTIONS ON OVERTIME
Employeeswith medical restrictionswill notbeaskejd to work overtime, if such overtimewould be detrimentalto their recovery.
ArticleXlll - EXISTINGf^LANT PRACTICES
All listing rules, regulationsand shop practicesoftfle company now prevailing and not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, shall continue infu| force and effect.
The Company shall have the rightto establish new n|les, regulationsand shop practices which do notconflictwith the terms of this Agreement.
Eachemployee is expected to comply with the Septemberl 997 and which may be amended from ti safety cf the employees and in order to provide an o
Healths Safety and General Plant Rules, as published ne to time in orderto protectthe health and derly work environment.
Any violation of the Health& Safety and General Plaht Rules will resultindisciplinaryactionas outlined inthe General Plant Rulesand subject to th»terms of the Union Contract.
Article XIV - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
A "Leave of Absence Form"must be completed and deemedto be approved by the Company. Therefore a Leave of Absence Form, is an "unauthorized" abse
approved beforeanyabsencefromwork is , an absence from work that is not approved, on nice and is subject to discipline.
An employee granted a leaveof absence underthe terms of Article XIV, will be given written authorization. This authorization will include the bemnning date and I he end date and the reasonfor the leave. A copy of the authorizationwill be given tq tthe Union. The employee who does not return to active employment at the end ofthe leave is deemed to be absentwithout authorization, unless they have appliedfor and been given approval for aj extension to the leave.
Ifajob or operation has been eliminated during an ejmployee's leave of absence, such provisions in the contractwill apply to the employment of the employee, as would have been applied hadthe employee been atwork atthe time a job or operatic! was eliminated.
A)	MEDICAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
1.	Personal Illness or Non-Work Related Injury
A leaveof absencewill begrantedto a seniorityemfcloyee, ifthe employee is ill,disabled or hasa non-work related injury that preventsthe employee tram performing his regularjob, providingthe following rules are observed:
a)	Preliminary medical information, as well as any supplemental medical information, as requested by the Company, is provided tq the Company, promptly.
b)	A Leaveof Absence Request Form is corpoieted and approved.
c)	The employee, if requested by the Company, attends an independentmedical examination.
d)	Medical information is provided by the employee to the Company, to confirm the employee is medically fit and able to return to their pre-leave job.
e)
f)
The employee cooperates in returningto thfeir
The employee cannot accept other employ* k medical leave, without notifyingthe Company,
pre-leave job, as soon as medically able, nt or travel out of the country, while on
g) The Companywill payfor Companyrequ«spi medicalinformationand Company requested independentmedicalexamlnatiops
Seniority employees with one (1) year of serviceor mprc will begranteda Medical Leaveof Absence, with their job being guaranteedfor the first six (6) months and ajob of similar nature being guaranteedfor the other six (6) months. The leave will c nly receiveconsiderationfor extension beyond one year, if the employee has provedthey wil be fitandableto returntotheirpre-leavejob within a reasonable period of time followingthe one y jar leave
Seniority employees with less than one (1)yearofse Absence, with their job being guaranteedfor the first being guaranteed for the otherthree (3) months. The extension beyond six months, if the employee has pm' pre-leave job within a reasonable period of time followino
vice or rr ore will begranteda Medical Leave of hree (3) nr onths and ajob of similar nature leave will c nly receiveconsiderationfor ved they w II be fit and able to return to their the six month leave
2.	Work Related Injury
Work related injuries must be reportedto the Supervisor rr Human Resources, prior to leaving the workplace. ProperWorkplace Safety & InsuranceBmrt forms will be supplied for those employees requiring outside medical attention and those, who wijl be absent from work, due to a work related injury.
The employee cannot accept other employment or trgvei cut of the country,while on medical leave, without notifyingthe Company.
B)	COMPASSIONATELEAVE OF ABSENCE
(ILLNESSOR INJURY IN THE IMMEDIATE FfAMILY)
A non-paid leave of absence, will begrantedtoan employee with one (1) year of service or more, upon request, if a memberof the employee's immediate family* is seriously ill or injured, subjectto the following rules:
* Immediate family includes: Spouse or Common-law Spouie, Children, Mother, Father, Brother or Sister.
a)	Preliminary medical information,as well as any supplemental medical information requested, relatingto the family member, i: i provided to the Company, promptly. The cost of medical information relatingto the family) member is not paid by the Company.
b)	A Leaveof Absence RequestFoim is completed by the employee and approved by the Company.
c)	The duration of the leaveof absence will bb up to but not exceeding three (3) months.
d)	The employee'sjob will be guaranteed for [he approved leave
16
C)	MATERNITY/PARENTAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
I jternity Leave
A non-paid maternity leave of absence will be granted to a female employee, who has been continuouslyemployed by the company for at leasttt irtee n (13) weeks. The maternity leavewill be for a maximum period of seventeen <1) weeks and nay begin at any time, up to seventeen (17) weeks priorto the expected date of delivery. The rec uest for maternity leave of absence must be made, at least two (2)weeks priorto the due date bu: we askthatyou apply early to allow the Company to planfor replacementcoverageduring th 3 maternity leave. Changes to the commencementdate or returndate must be request* d two (2) weeks priorto the date. A maternity leave of absence can and should includethe requestor the Parental Leave, if the employee knows that they wish to take both leaves.
2. Parental Leave
A non-paid parental leave of absence of up to eighteen (18) weeks will be granted to an employee, who iseitherthe motheror the father or in the case r Adoption, either ofthe parents. The Parental leave is ten (I0) weeks of entitlement to Employmen Insuranceand eight (8)weeks of no Employment Insuranceentitlement. Forthe natural mother parental leave usually commences after the maternity leave has concluded, except in thecas 3 where the baby is still in the hospital. Inthat case, her parental leave would commence when the bat y comes into her care. Forthe father or eitherofthe adoptive parents, inthe case of adoption, tte parental leave must commencewithin thirty-five (35) weeks afterthe birth of the child nrthd dale of adoption and must betaking all at one time.
The requestfor parental leave of absence mustbenhde at leasttwo weeks priorto the commencementdate butwe askthatyou apply eaHjj to allow us to planfor replacementcoverage during the parental leave. Changes to the commencement date or return date must be requested two (2)weeks priorto the date.
The employee's previousjobwill be guaranteed inttffe case of both maternity and parental leaves, for the duration of the leaves,which is up to but notexdPeding thirty-five (35)weeks.
3.	First Pregnancy
Femaleemployeeswith at leastone (l)yearofserv request an additional unpaid leave of up to seventee writing at leasttwo (2) weeks priorto the end ofthe immediatelyfollowing the maternity/parental leaves parental and first pregnancy cannot exceed fifty-two
:e, may inthe case of their first pregnancy, n (17 weeks. This leave must be appliedfor in laterr ity/parenta! leaves and must betaken The otal amount of leave for maternity,
(52) weeks
D)	NON-PAID PERSONAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
A rion-pald personal leave of absence, may be granted to an employee afterthree (3) years of serviceor more, subject to the following rules:
a)	A Leave of Absence Request Formiscompieiec by the employee and approved by the Company. The requestfor leave of absence will be approved or denied and a written reply will be given to the employeewithin five (a) days of the Company receivingthe request, providingthe request is submitted at leastlfifteer (15) days priorto the commencementof the leave.
Note: Employees are cautioned not to make travb Iplans before receiving written confirmation of an approved leave of absence.
b)	The employee must utilize all non-scheauiK ia vacation entitlement, before a personal leave will be considered.
c)	The duration of the leave of absence may|i)e up to but not exceeding four (4) weeks.
d)	The employee’sjob will be guaranteed ton tne durationofthe leave, once the leave has been approved.
e)	An employeewill not beeligible to apply r a subsequent personal leave of absencefor three (3) calendaryears from the commencement of the previous leave.
f) The Company will approve (or deny) a nor -paid personal leave based on:
the numberof other employees In the department, who have prior approved leavesfor the dates request nd.
the productiondemandsantpipated at the time the leave is requested, the reasonfor the leave.
Note: Seniority will only be a consideration, if two Quests were received at the same time and for the same dates of leave. Otherwise, the first to appfj,' fora specified time period will receive first consideration.
E. UNIONEXECUTIVE/HEALTH & SAFETY CpMMITTEE MEMBERS LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Leave of absence without loss of seniority shall be granted to a reasonable numberof employees elected to act as representatives of the Union, or aa delegates to Union Conventions, conference, and other similar functions. Such employees shall 8>e reinstated to their respective previousjob, operations or machine, upon return to work, provldtd that the leave is two (2) weeks or less. Inthe event of leave of more than two (2) weeks for any c f the following reasons, such employee shall be reinstatedto his previousjob and insofar as practic > I to the same operation or machine. An employee on leave of absence as a delegate to a Lnlon Convention, conference or other similar function shall be entitled to holiday pay for any hollaav which occurs during such leave.
I nail cases a Leave of Absence Request Form will be completed with as much notice as possible.
F.
BEREAVEMENT
Paiu jfereavement leave shall be allowed for a seniority employee, subjectto the rules in this article, who has a death in the family* and who would others ise would lose earnings of regular hours of work, as outlined in Article VII. Paid bereavement le; ive is not allowed, ifthe employee is absent from work for any reason at the time of death, including approved leaves of absence, except ifthe employee is on an approved vacation.
(If the employee is on scheduled vacation, when the death occuts in the family that would otherwise qualify for bereavementleave pay, the employee, subject to bereavement save approval, will be allowed to reschedule the approved days to a time mutually agreed to by the Supervisorand the employee.)
Satisfactory proof of death must be supplied to the company at the end of the bereavement leave or within fifteen (15) working days ifthe death occurs oi)t of the country.
I.	Death In The Employee’s Immediate Family’' vfhich for the purpose of this article includes:
SPOUSE, COMMON-LAWSPOUSE, CHILDREN, FATHER, MOTHER.
•	the employeeshall be entitledto a paid bereavement leave of FOUR (4)working days, in one leave period,
BROTHER, SISTER.
•	the employee shall be entitled to a paid bereavement leave of THREE (3) working days.
Note: Immediate Family includes all previous relations oy marriage and common-law relationships but it does not include previous in-law relationships. Jit does include step/half and adopted relationships.
2.	Death in The Employee’s Family*which for the purpose of this article includes:
GRANDPARENT, GRANDCHILDREN, FATHER-IN-LAW, MOTHER-IN-LAW, BROTHER-IN-LAW, SISTER-IN-LAW, SON-IN-LAW, DAUGHTER-IN-LAW, GRANDPARENTS-IN-LAW.
• the employeewill be entitled to a paid bereavement leave of up to THREE (3) working days for those working days that the employee was scheduled to work between the notice of death and the day after the funeral.
Employees, unableto attend the funeral because of distance, paid bereavement leave of one <|day will be allowed. The day will be mutually agreed ta tjy the employee and the Supervisor.
Ifthe employee is not notified of the death until afterithe funeral has taken place paid bereavement leave of one (1) day will be allowed. The day will be mutually agreed to by the employee and the Supervisor.
3.	Out of ProvinceTravel
If a bereavementleave has been approved and the Employee provides proof they have travelled out of provinceto attend the funeral, they can request aPd will be granted one (1) additional paid day, as a travel allowance.
G. JURY DUTY
Ifan iployee is called for Jury Duty or issummonedan d reports, as a Crown Witness, as prescribed by applicable Ontario or Federal Law,thepompany will allow a leave of absence subject to the following rules:
a)	The employee must supply a copy ofthe Cburt Requestfor their attendance^ the Company.
b)	A Leave of Absence Request Form must h* completed and presented to the Company.
c)	The employee must returnon the firstworKjng day after being excused from Jury Duty or as a Crown Witness.
d)	The Company will reimburse the employee fcr the difference between his average hourly rate for the time ofthe leave and the amou it the court pays to himfor appearing. To qualify to be paid, an employee mustsupplfihe Company with the necessary receipts showing the amount paid to the employee, 3} the court. For probationary employees, this paymentwill be made upon attainment of seniority status
Article XV - VACATIONS
ELIGIBILITY FOR VACATION
I .All employees will be eligible for vacation pay as qer Schedule C,
2. Vacation pay will be based on the periodfrom Juiy itoJune30 All wages earned in that time period, including vacation pay will bethe base for vacation pay.
3.	Wage loss due to an approved Workplace Safety R Insurance Board Claim inthe periodwill be added to the base for vacation pay calculations. Fora piece worker, WS IB Compensationequivalent will be based on the employee's average hourlyrate Article VI, Sec. D) at the time of injury; for a time worker, the WSIB equivalentwill bethe regular hourly rate the employee was paid at the time of the injury. Regularworking hours only will be Used fc rthis calculation.
4.	Any employee leaving the employment ofthe con their eligible percentage, less any vacation pay alrea
pany will be paid vacation pay due to them at iy paid to them ir the vacation year.
5.	Any employeewho has reached, on the annivers; iry day of their hiie; five (5) years, ten (10) years, twenty (20) years, twenty-nine (29) years or tf irty-five (35) years, between July 1 and December 31, will be eligible for an additional 2% or their anniversary date and will be eligibleto take an additionalweek of vacation, which must be t$ken prior to December31st ofthe vacation year.
6,	Paymentof vacation pay will bethe pay period preceding scheduled vacation,
7.	The vacation period for weeks one and two will uw uctween July 1 and Augusi 30th and shall be designated by the Company. The vacatio n period fo • week three will be betweer Christmas and New Years or at such other time as may be mutually agreed uoon.
20
8.	Employeeseligiblefor four, five, sixorsevenwe job priority. Lists of eligible employeeswill be posi em|. .yees mustchoosetheir vacation time by Febm makeadjustmentswhen necessary. Any request fo Company agrees and if no other employee is affectqd
dks vacation will select vacation weeks in order of fled during the first week of January. All eligible ary 1. The Company reserves the right to changes after April I can only be made if the , regardless of seniority.
9.	An employeewith vacation entitlement beyond tc 7th weeks as time off. Permissionto work these we the employee would receivevacation pay due to the}™
ur weeks may requestto nottake the 5th, 6th, or' ks would be granted, ifworkwas available and plus pay for the week worked.
10.	Ifa Statutory Holiday is within a vacation weeK,|an extra day may be scheduled, subjectto 2) above.
Vacation pay as defined inArticleXV, will be paid tc| employees, who have achieved the following seniority, as of June 30th inthe year.
NUMBER OF YEARS OF SERVICE
Less than Ivear
1 year
5 years
10 vears
20 years______
29 years (1999 28 years) (200027 years)
vacation Payment
4ty
4°j
6°i
VACATION TIME ALLOWED
1	week
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
* Vacations of employeeswith lessthantwo (2) years cf service are subjectto Provincial Regulations, as detailed inthe EmploymentStandards Act.
Article XVI - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
A)	Employees, excluding probationary employees who have notworked for three (3) calendar months, shall be paid for the following nine (9) statutory holidays, subjectto the provisions set forth in this article.
NewYears Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
bour Day anksgiving Day ristmas Day xing Day
B)	In addition, three (3) floating holidayswill bet0K©n 'nthe year. The three days will be decided by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union ly March31sl of the previous year.
C)	Should any holiday(s) fall on a Saturday or Siflday, an alternate day will be designated by mutual agreement of the Unionandthe Company in tpe week either preceding or following that holiday.
D\ Qualifying employees shall be paid for each o which they occur. Fortime rated employees, the pay current hourly rate times their regularscheduled hour 5 the payforeach holiday shall be the individualemplo n VI, SectionD, times their regularscheduled hours of fvork,
f the specified holidays, in the pay period in for holidays shall be the individualemployee's 5 of work. In the case of piece rate employees, ee's average hourly rate as defined in Article
Inthe case of an employeewho would have been permanently and formally scheduled by the Company to work more or less than the regularscheauled hours of work on the day on which the holiday occurs, such employee shall receive as his holiday pay the amount of pay hewould have received had heworked such scheduled hours.
An employee will not qualify for Holiday Pay if pie employee:
1.	Has been employed for less than three (3) paiendar months from date of hire.
2.	Has been absentfrom work during the entire week in which the paid holiday occurs, unless such absence is caused by layoff or personal illness certified by a doctor's certificate.
3.	Is absent from work because of layoff or personal illness but has notworked the entire two weeks preceding the week inwhich a paidjioliday occurs plus the entire week during which the paid holiday occurs.
4.	Has notworked the last regular scheduled pay of work preceding the holiday or the first regularscheduled day of work following a follday.
Therewill be no exceptions to numberl, 2, or3,
Exceptionsto 4. will be granted if the employee isoffjwork on the last regular scheduled day of work preceding the holiday or the first regularscheduled d ay of work following the holidayfor "reasonable cause".
To verify reasonable cause, the employee musthavo at, approved leave of absence from the Company. The leave of absence will be granted for]
personal illness of the employ certificateor other adequate serious illness in the immedidt' death of a member in the fannil other approved Company le;
'c?e. The Company may request a doctor’s uroof.
;<e family, supported by adequate proof, lily as defined by Article XIV, Section F. ves of absence that are prior approved.
F)	In the eventthattwo (2) or more consecutive t oiiaays are being observed, an employee who
fails to qualify for payment becausethey are absent without reasonable causeon one of the regular set uled days, either before or after the holidays ir question shall lose paymentforonly one (1) cf the paid holidays being observed. If they are absent without reasonablecauseonthe regular scheduled day before and afterthe holidays in question they will lose paymentfor all of the holidays in question,
Article XVII - EMPLOYEE WELFARE
A)	INSURANCE
1.	An employeequalifiesforthe benefits outlined in|{Schedule "B" after completingthree (3) months employment.
2.	The employee pays ten percent (10%) of the cos| of Extended Health Care and ten percent(io%) of the cost of Weekly Indemnity coverage as a payro I deduction. The Company pays ninety percent (90%) cf these costs plusthe costcf Group Life Insurance
3.	All employeeswho retire underthe provisiono ttBj v UN TE RETIREMENT FUND shall be entitled to the Group Life Insurancecoverageas outlined inpchedule "B".
4.	The Company will maintainfull benefits as defined in Schedule "B" for all employees, who are on an approved leave of absence. When a leavenmnloxtHnsinn for a leave is not approved by the Company, benefitswill not be maintained.
B)	RETIREMENT
All employees shall retire at age sixty-five (65). Hov| ever, working extensions may be granted on a monthto month basis, providedan agreement hast sen reached betweenthe Company and the Union, as to theirworking status. Only underexcep ional circumstanceswill extensions be granted afterthe employee's seventieth (70th) birthday.
Any employee commencing retirementpensionpayi lents underthe UNITE RetirementFundwill be deemed to have terminatedtheir employment with tjie Company
C)	RETIREMENT FUND
The Company agrees to pay three percent (3%) of< || earnings accrued (less vacation pay and statutory holiday pay) of all employees in the bargal ling unit, into a Pension Fundfor those employees. The Memorandum of Agreement, Deal .ration of Trust and Regulations thereunder as signed by the partieson February22nd, 1958 shall lenceforth apply, except as amended or superseded from time to time thereafter.
Article XIX -TERMS ^)F AGREEMENT
This agreement shall be binding upon the parties hei effective upon the-date thereof and shall remain in fu 206T7irsfTall be automatically renewed-from year to JaHfiary 2001, or any year thereafter, notice in writint other party of their desire to propose changes in this same, in either of which event this
ri?toand their successors in interest and shall be I force and effect until the 31 “ day of March, year thereafter unless on or before the 31st of , by registered mail, is given either party to the Agreement or of their intention to terminate the Agreement shall terminate upon the ensuing 31“ day of March.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized agents as of the date first (1st) above wril}:en.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
DonBannon Gord Hunt KimAustin
LenWood Klshor Jobanputra BarbTreblnskl Sherry Arnold JudyLackner
PAY EQUITY
In orderto satisfy the requirementsof Bill 154 of the Ontario Legislature, ajob evaluation has been completed on all operations. Pointvalueswere assigned to all operationsand seven (7)job classes were established.
Any jobs which were found to be undervalued have reen adjustedto the properearning level. Jobs which were overvalued have a "Maintenanceaf Ean lings' adjustment appliedto them as perthe Letterof Understandingon Page33 and will recelvr inly a portion of any future general increases until equity is achieved.
SCHEDULE "A’l 1998-2001
PAY STRUCTURE -TARGETED EARNING LEVELS
The rates listed below reflectthe earning levels of eafcli of the seven (7)job classes. For piece workers, these rates reflectthe earning level at 130°, Df normal effort (SectionA). 3h the case d the time worker rates, they reflectthe various steps to reach the top rate in each class (SectionC).
	March30,1998	March 28,1999	April 2.2000
Piecework Start Rate Minimum	$7.00	$7.10	$7.20
			
1	$8.65	$8.90	$9.15
2	$9.15	$9.40	$9.65
3	$9.65	$9.90	$10.15
4	$10.15	$10.40	$10.65
5	$10.90	$11.15	$1 140
6	$1 165	$11.90	$12.15
1___________________$12-40_________)______$12.65_________________$12.90
B) SPLIT INCENTIVE GUARANTEED AMOUMlT	
Present March30.1998 I March 28.1999	Anril 2.2000

2.
$7,425
$7,675
$7,925
$8,175
SCHEDULE’'A"! 1998-2001
PAY STRUCTURE - TARGETED EARNING LEVELS
C) TIME WORKER SCHEDULE_______________________________
	March 31.1998			March 28.1999	Anril 2. 2000
Class 1 Start	$8.25	$8.50	$8.75
3 months	$8.35	$8.60	$8.85
6 months	$8.45	$8.70	$8.95
9 months	$8.55	$8.80	$9.05
1 vear	$8.65	$8.90	$9.15
Class 2 Start	$8.75 '	$9.00	$9.25
3 months	$8.85	$9.10	$9.35
6 months	$8.95	$9.20	$9.45
9 months	$9.05	■ $9.30	$9.55
1 vear	$9.15	$9.40	$9.65
Class 3 Start.	$9.25	$9.50	$9.75
3 months	$9.35 •	$9.60	$9.85
6 months	$9.45	$9.70	$9.95
9 months	$9.55	$9.80	$10.05
1 vear	$9.65	$9.90	$10.15
Class 4 Start	$9.55	$9.80	$10.05
3 months	$9.70	$9.95	$10.20
6 months	$9.85	$10.10	$10.35
9 months	$10.00	$10.25	$10.50
1 vear	$10.15	$10.40	$10.65
Class S Start	$10.35	$10.60	$10.85
3 months	$10.45	$10.70	$10.95
6 months	$10.60	$10.85	$11.10
9 months	$10.75	$11.00	$11.25
1 vear	$10.90	$11.15	$11.40
Class 6 Start	$10.85	$11.10	$11.35
3 months	$11.05	$11.30	$11.55
6 months	$11.25	$11.50	$11.75
9 months	$11.45	$11.70	$11.95
1 vear	$11.65	$11.90	$12.15
Class 7 Start	$11.60	$11.85	$12.10
3 months	$11.80	$12.05	$12.30
6 months	$12.00	$12.25	$12.50
9 months	$12.20	$12.45	$12.70
	1-vear		$1240		$12.65		$12.90	
JOB CLASSES
A) MANUALSEWING OPERATIONS
CLASS 2	CLASS 3		CLASS 4 1
Baste Tod	Bind Short Sleeve	5	Attach Collar
Make Loop& Cut	Clean & Repair B	oediter	Folder Fell
Overseam Pockets, Flaps	Collar Repair?		Folder Join
	Concealed Join		Formal Wear Stitchlna
	Concealed Yokinc		Hem Shirt
	Face Sleeve		Insert Sleeves & Fell
	Manual Centreole	it	Insert Cuff
	Manual Hem Pool	et	Run On Sleeves
	Manual Hem Slee	/e	Sew On Pockets. Flaos. Crests
	Manual Hem Fror	t .	Trim Tod & Manual Tod Insert
	Manual Hem Cuff		
	Manual Label Bar	o or Yokes	
	Manual Run Top		CLASS 6
	Manual Run Cuff		Utllltv Level VI
	Manual Stitch Cu^		
	Piece Sleeves		
	Shirr Sleeves		
	Stitch Cuff. Flap.	'□aulets	
, Stitch Down Yoke			
i Stitch Down Join		team	i ]	
	Stitch Down Slee	!!»s										
	Stitch Down Pock	3tV	
	Stitch Pocket Pie:	its & Press	
	Stitch PocketHe;	der	
	Stitch Tab To Col	ar or Yoke	
	Stitch Tod		
	Tack Jn Sleeve P	eats	
JOB CLASSES
B) AUTOMATIC SEWING OPERATIONS
1	CLASS 1	I	CLASS		2	I	CLASS 3		
Auto CentreDleat - Cluolcker .	Auto Attach Pocket		Auto Turn & Stitch
Auto Hem Front - “	Auto Button Hole Fi	onts	Button Hole Sleeve Faclncrs
Auto Hem Pockets - “	Auto Button Front		Button Sleeve Facinas
Auto Overseam Front - *	Auto CentreDleat -1	to CiUDlcker	Manual Button Hole Fronts
	Auto Hem Cuff		Manual Button Fronts. Pockets
	Auto Hem Front - N	o Cluoicker	N.C. Insert Tod
	Auto Hem Sleeve		
	Auto Label Band		
	Auto Run Cuff		
	Auto Tack Label		
	Auto Tack Sleeve		
	Button & Button Ho	eBand	
	Button & Button Ho	eCuff	
	Button Points		
	Stitch Eyelet		
	CLASS 5		
	Utility V	1	
JOB CLASSES
C)	NON- SEWING OPERATIONS
	CLASS-1	L	CLASf		2	CLASS a 1
Elevator-Operator	,		-AW.LA.SHt Placket		Check Pack t\N)	
PickrOff Gerber	Crease Band		Die Cut Mlsc.
Match Cuff		Crease Epaulet		Spread & Die Cut Interface	
Fuse Plackets	Crease Flaps		Soot_Tack &.Examine
Press Fronts. Pockets. Sleeves	.Crease Pocket		Fuse Collar A/H800t
Perma Press Collar	_F_use & Examine Ci	ff - Simplex	Turpolnt
Apolv Stickers (W)	Fuse & Examine - \	anneaiesser	Turn & Press Cuff
Swatchlna	Heat Seal Label		Button & Fold
Press Pocket Pleat	Pair & Count Sleev	!S	Stamp Yokes
Cleanina Maintenance	Stamp Front		Sort & Box
	Dock Person		.Pack Hanaer.fW)
	Eackaolno-Service		Matchup Service .
	Parts Service		Cut Matchuo .
	Case Opener		.General Buildino Maintenance 1
	General Warehous	i Person	Shipper Receiver
	Cuttinq Service		Collar Service			
	Tie & Taa Collars		Gerber Cut
	Perma Press Colla	-Trim Threads	Examine. Baa & Butter Flv
	Pair & Trim Fronts		
	Count Yokes		
	Trim Points Cuff		
	Trim Top Collar		
	Print UPC Tickets/	loy Labels	
			
			
Shade Scalp		ulldlng Maintenance!!	MaintenanceEnaineer	Utilitv Cutter
Sprpari	Pkn IltilitvV		
Sleeve Cut-Downs			
Pick-Off Scale			
Bin Stock l\N)			
Pick Stock (W'l			
Truck Driver			
Eton Service			
Gen Fabric Stockroom			
SCHEDUL1 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS,
;"B"
^ND INSURANCES
The following is an outline of the various Insurance coverages effected by the Companyforthe benefit of employees inthe bargaining unit and their eligible dependants. afterthe employee has completedthree (3) monthsof employment.
The employee paysten (10%) percent of the cost of Extended Health Care and Weekly Indemnityandthe Company pays ninety (90%) percent. The Company pays vis cost of Group Life Insurance.
A)	GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
All active employees shall be insured, as a death benefit, f<$r the following amounts:
CommencingApriH, 1998	$15,000
CommencingApril 1,1999	$20,000
CommencingApril 12000	$25,000
B)	WEEKLY INDEMNITY PI AN (SICK BENEFlTPFK]GRAM)
The benefit underthe plan will be payablefromthe 1“ <)af pr injury, due to a non work related injury or from the 1“ day of admissionto hospital or from the 8'1' day of slckngss for a duration of twenty-six (26) weeks.
The benefit underthe planwill be66 2/3% of the employees average hourly rate and basedonthe employee's regularworkweek.
To qualify for "first (1st) day hospital benefit", hospitalzatiolji of at least twenty-four (24) hourswill normally be reauired. However. Qualification will also be allowed if ouinatient Drocedures are performed which would not usually be performedina Doctor's cffioa.
C)	EXTENDED HEALTHCARE
IA pay direct drug card is provided. Drugchargespresct licensed pharmacistwill be covered. The plan also covers per prescription. The employee is responsiblefor paying a
red by a licensed physician and dispensed by a he dispensing fees of the pharmacistupto $5.00 / dispensingfee over$5,00 per prescription.
2.	Hospital charges for a semi-private roomwhich areoverj|and abovetheward level paid by the Provincial
3.	An Out of Province Travel Accident Plan is provided.
4.	Vision Care provides coverage, once every twenty-four ’4) months, to all eligible employees and eligible dependents, for prescriptionglasses, upon submission of a /alid receiptfor the following amounts:
CommencingApril IJ998	$120.00
CommencingApril J 1999	$130.00
CommencingApril 1, 2000	$140.00
30
COST OUTLINE FOR GOVERN ENT BENEFIT PROGRAMS
ITEM
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
CANADA PENSION
Company HEALTHTAX (replacesOHIP)
WORKERS COMPENSATION
COMPANY P^YS 1.28% OF EARNINGS 3.20% OF EARNINGS 1.95% OF EARNINGS
3.82% OF EARNINGS
EMPLOYEEPAYS
2.70% OF EARNINGS 3.20% OF EARNINGS NIL
NIL
kRNINGS	5.90% OF EARNINGS
The percentagesshown are ascf March31,1998 and arel subject tc change at the direction^ the Provincialor Federal Governments, who havejurisdiction in this regard
he employee's contributionof 5.90% of their earnings 'roll dollar.
SCHEuui^ "C"
Vacation schedule as defined inArticle XV, will be paid to || nployees who have achieved the following seniority, as of June 30th inthe year.
NUMBEROFYEARS OF SERVICE	VACATION PAYMENT VACATION TIME ALLOWED	
Lessthan 1 year	4%	Iweek
Iyear	4%	2 weeks
5 vears	6%	3 weeks
10 years	8%	4 weeks
20 vears	10%	5 weeks
29 years	12%	6 weeks
(999 28 years)		
(200027 years)		
35 Years	14%	7 weeks
31
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between:	CLUETT, PEABODY CANADA IlfiC.
And:	U.NJ.T.E. Local303A
Date:	March31,1998
Subject:	SPLIT INCENTIVES
Itisagreedthatthe general increaseseffective March 30,1998, March28,1999 and April 2,2000, will be added to the GUARANTEE portionof the split ncentive pay system. All employees on the split incentivesystemwill berequiredto maintainthe follov ring minimum earnings, on the piecework portionofthe rate structure, in orderto qualify for split! Incentive pay.
The minimum piecework portion is:
	Regular	75-25
	.Split	Split
Class 1	3.115/hr.	
2	3.500/hr.	
3	3.885/hr.	L808/hr.
4	4.269/hr.	1.904/hr.
3
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between:	CLUETT, PEABODY CANADA \Uc.
And:	U.N.l.T.E. Local 303A
Date:	March31,1998
Subject:	EDUCATIONFUND
EffectiveApril 1,1998 the Companywill pay$1.50 parrronth per active employee into an "Educational Fund" for the exclusive use of tf a Lcca! 303A UNITE and controlled by a committee of Local303A UNITE employees In trust. Loca 1303A will consult with the Company on what the educationfund can be used for. The Comp; iny wi I be provided with an accounting of the usagecf the funds on a yearly basis. Surplus fundslpald into the old education fund since 1990 wil be turned overto the newfund.
LETTEROF AGREEMENT
Between:
CLUETT, PEABODY CANADA IflC.
And:
U.N.l.T.E. Local303A
Date:
March31,1998
EARLY RETIREMENTEMPLOYfcE BENEFITS
Subject:
The Company will make available ExtendedHealthanjd Group Life Insurance benefitsatthe current cost of those benefits,for an employee commencing Barty Retirement, up to the employee’s 65th birthday.
It is agreed that if an Early RetirementOfferwas macjAto employees ofthe UNITE through the Retirement Pension Fund, the Company would makeXallable a Benefit PackageOfferthatwould be mutually agreed on by the Company and the Union, fU those employees who agreeto acceptthe Early RetirementOffer.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between:	CLUETT, PEABODY CANADA l(*IC.
And:	U.N.l.T.E. Local 303A
Date:	March31,1998
Subject:	NOTICE OF TERMINATION ANI) SEVERANCE PAY
It is agreed the for the term of the contract, which is ub rules relatingto Noticeof Termination and Severance 1998 will be followed, even if the ProvincialEmployme benefitthat is now provided. If EmploymerftStandard or Severance benefits, the Company would follow tho$e
to March31,2001, the EmploymentStandards Pay that are currently in effect as of March31, nt Standards rules change to decrease the rules change to provide enhanced Termination mles.
35
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between:	CLUETT, PEABODY CANADA IlflC.
And:	U.N.l.T.E. Local303A
Date:	March 31,1998
Subject:	UNION STEWARDSTIME
A) Itisagreedthatthe Company will pay Union stewards and Union Officers, providedthey are
employees, for all losttime from work to attend meetir gs w th the Company, settling grievances, as well as time required by relevant legislation, while on t le Con: pany premises.
The Unionwill on a monthly basis, reimbursethe Conipany for a portion of the above, which is agreed will be$83.34. This is equal to $1000.00 annually.
B) Fortime spent on "off sight" Union Business, such Educational Training time, the Companywill pay all full by the Union, on a monthly basis for all such time,
»s. untario Joint Council Meetings or t. time as indicated and will be reimbursed Ir without limit
sic!
or the timework rate for time workers.
Floyee's Average Hourly Ratefor pieceworkers
ie union and the recordsofthe Company,
regardingthe amounts due, the Company, uponproo . il having paid out such monies, will be reimbursed by the Union.
36
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING MAINTENANCEOF EARNINGS
Whenever a piece rate is changed due to a changed condition on an existing job, or a piece rate is set on a newjob, any loosenessthat existed in the "old" rate will bq added to the newjob earnings in the form of a subsidy paid for inthe Payroll Department.
Any operation which is found to be overvaluedafter a Job Evaluation process has been applied, in conjunction with Pay Equity Legislation, will be treated inthe same manner,
The correct piece rate or timework ratewill be given to the Employees to apply to their card. Any new employeeor employees transferredto the operation which ]has an M.O.E. will usethe piece rate or timework rate with no subsidy.
Whenever general increasesare granted to thesejobs,theJ following adjustments will be made untilthese subsidies are completely depleted:
IF A JOB ISUPTO 5% LOOSE,GIVE 75% OF THE GENERAL INCREASE UNTILTHIS SUBSIDY IS DEPLETED.
IFA JOB IS BETWEEN 5.1 % AND 10% LOOSE, G|VE 65% INCREASE UNTIL DEPLETED.
10.1%	" 15%	M	tt	60%
15.1%	" 20%	U	M	55%
20.1%	* UP	«	n	50%
If ajob is measured at say, 14% loose, itwill always get 60^o of any general increases untilthe subsidy is depleted.
The Company agrees that any savings gained by the above} prc gram will be directly applied to achievingthe Pay EquityTargets.
When an M.O.E. is establishedon ajob or operation the uqmp any will Union representative and explain the M.O.E agreement. It Representativeandthe employee involved and a copy giveh
meetwith the employee involved and a vill be signed by the Company, Union to each
37