THE COMPLETE AGREEMENT
between LOCAL 287 of the
INTERNATIONAL LADIES GARMENT WORKERS UNION
102-119 West Pender Street, Vancouver, B.C. V6B 1 S5
and
JANTZEN CANADA INC.
196 Kingsway Vancouver, B.C. V5T 3J3
September 1,1988 to August 31,1990
between LOCAL 287 of the
INTERNATIONAL LADIES GARMENT WORKERS UNION
102-119 West Pender Street, Vancouver, B.C. V6B 1 S5
and
JANTZEN CANADA INC.
196 Kingsway
Vancouver, B.C. V5T 3J3
September 1,1988 to August 31,1990
ARTICLE
PAGE(S)
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
IAY-OFF AND RECALL
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
INDIVIDUAL AGREEMENT
MISCELLANEOUS
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
RELATION WITH FIRMS ON STRIKE
DISCRIMINATION
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
EQUAL PAY
BOILERS
UNION REPRESENTATION, ACCESSTO SHOP, EXAMINATION OF BOOKS, PAYROLL RECORDS
SHOP CHAIRPERSON, SHOP COMMITTEE
HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
ARBITRATION
DISCHARGE FOR CAUSE
DURATION AND RENEWAL OF AGREEMENT
RATIFICATION AND AMENDENTS
APPENDIX
Guaranteed Rates Piece work Minute Value
19
20. 21 21 21 21
21, 22 22 22 22 22
22, 23
23
23 23,
24
25 25 25^ 26,
24
27, 28. 29
QUALIFYING CONDITIONS	30, 31, 32
Classifications Promotion
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
- 2 -
ARTICLE 1 - COVENANTS
1.01	The Employer recognises the Union as the Bargaining Agent and Representative of the Members of the Union, the Employees of the Employer, and likewise the Union and its Members recognize the Employer as the owner and agent of Jantzen Canada Inc..
1.02	The Employer and the Union and the Members agree that they will respectively abide by. observe and Perform in good faith the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 2 - BANKRUPTCY
2.01	The bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or the winding up of the Employer holding trust funds which are deemed at all times to be segregated and the property of the Union in absolute ownership.
shall not affect the right of the Union to be paid by the first priority.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SHOP
3.01	The Employer agrees to maintain a Union Shop in his own establishment and in any subsidiary he may establish in British Columbia,
to manufacture the same goods.
3.02	The term "Union shop" shall mean that the Employer shall employ only Members of the Union in good standing.
3.03	In case the Union is unable to supply the Employer with Workers when needed, the Employer may obtain such help from other sources, but after atrial period of six (6) weeks, such new help shall be members of the Union.
3.04	The Union agrees to accept as Members, new Employees hired by the Employer.
3.05	All Members employed by the Employer must be in good standing and not in arrears in their dues.
3.06	Mechanics. Stationary Steam Engineers, Janitors, Clerical Staff, Style Development Staff, Supervisors and Assistant Supervisors are not subject to the provisions of the contract.
ARTICLE 4 - DEDUCTION of UNION DUES
4.01	The Employer shall deduct all Union dues assessments and initia-
tion fees, which are supported by a signed authorization, and
3
shall transmit such deductions to the Union, together with a list of Employees for whom the deduction was made on or before the 25th day of said month.
4.02	In the case of mew employees, the deduction(s) referred to in the above Article A.Olshall be made from payroll imediately following thirty (30) days of employment.
4.03	The employer shall give the Union a list of employees hired, terminated and on layoff, weekly.
4.04	It is understood and agreed that the Union will provide the Employer each month with a list of new employees from whom deductions are
to be made. Said list is to be in the hands of the Employer not later than the day on which the pay period ends and from which pay period dues are to be deducted.
4.05	Upon notification by the Union, the Caployer will deduct arrears on the basis of a maximum of two (2) months' arrears payment per month.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION PAYROLL
5.01	At least once a year, the Employer shall furnish to the Union, a copy of his detailed payrolls for the designated weeks, which will contain workers' name, their occupations, hours worked at straight time, and at overtime rates, and wages paid at straight time and at overtime rates.
5.02	It is further agreed that any information relating to individual or group earnings will be given to the Union upon request.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION LABEL
6.01 The Employer agrees that as soon as the I.L.G.W.U. Label is in general effect in Canada, the Union shall have the right to discuss with the firm, the implementation of the Union Label for Jantzen Canada Inc..
ARTICLE 7 - FACTORY REGULATIONS
7.01	All Employees shall abide by the standing factory regulations
which shall be approved by the Union.
9.04
9.05
9.06
9.07
9.08
art:;::
10.01
10.02
10.03
- 5 -
Total Gross weekly payroll shall include each Union Employee's total Gross earning in eachpay period including overtime premium, shift premium, Holiday pay and Vacation pay.
All Fund contributions to be paid in respect of the Health and Welfare and the Retirement Funds, are to be paid into the Fund (Union) Office, not later than the fifteenth (15th) calendar day of the month immediately following that for which they are held.
The Employer shall be provided with the yearly financial statements of the funds, copies of The TRUST AGREEMENT and RULES & REGULATIONS governing the Funds, and Actuarial reports as prepared.
Auditors assigned by the Union shall have the right to check payroll record of the Bargaining Unit employees to determine that full payment has been made by the employer to the Funds.
The Employer acknowledges that the Trustees of the Retirement Fund are reguired by the Pension Act of Manitoba to report delinguent payments due to the fund to the Superintendent of Pensions of the Pension Commission of Manitoba, in accordance with Chapter P-32 of the "PENSION BENEFITS ACT".
10 - SENIORITY AND BRIDGING
Seniority is defined as the length of unbroken service in the bar' Seining unit. Service shall not be considered to be broken when an Employee is on an approved Leave of Absence as defined in Article 20.
Employees on lay-off will retain seniority for (6) six months :
they have (1) one year service or less, and employees with more than (1) one year service will retain seniority for (12) twelve months.
\
In the application of seniority, in the case of lay-offs and promotion, it shall be determined first by Department and second by Plant, competency considered.
- BRIDGING! Individuals who are re-hired after no lore then a (10) ten year break in employment shall, after (3) three years of unbroken service, be credited with his/her previous service. His/ her seniority shall then be the total of the time worked previously and the time worked since the date of re-hire.
- 6 -
- 6 -
10.04 An employee transferring from a bargaining unit job to a nonbargaining unit job will retain seniority in his/her previous position for up to (6) six months providing he/she continues to pay Union dues during this period.
ARTTCTE 11 - HOURS OF WORK AND SHIFT DIFFERENTIALS
11.01	A weeks work shall consist of 37-| hours within 5 working days of 7-J hours each day, Monday to Friday inclusive.
11.02	The following shall be the schedule of working hours and the coffee breaks.
BAYJjHIFT	Start 7:45 A.ri.
Lunch 3/4 hour as per posted list Finish 4:00 P.M.
One 10 minute coffee break in ttip morning plus one 10 minute coffee break in the afternoon as per posted list.
AFTERNOON SHIFT
MIDNIGHT SHIFT
Start
Coffee Break Supper
Coffee Break FINISH
Start
Coffee Break Meal
Coffee Break FINISH
4s00 P.M.
6:00 P.M. - 6:10 P.M. SORT P.M. - “b:30 P.M. 10:00 P.M. -10:10 P.M. 12:00 A.M. (midnight)
12:00 A.M. 2:00 A.M. 4:00 A.M. 6:00 A.M. 7:45 A.M.
(midnight )
-	2:10 A.M.
-	4:15 A.M.
-	6:10 A.M.
A SHIFTBlFFSSSfriALf"r Tima and Piece Workers shall be paid as
follows: For those employed on afternoon shift, twenty (20*) cents per hour: for those employed on midnight shift, eighty (80*) cents per hour.
Employees on the payroll as of August 31, 1988, shall be red circled af the afternoon shift differential of forty (40*) cents per hour.
SECURITY RESPONSIBILITY DIFFERENTIAL. The Employer shall pay a premium of 10*/hour in addition to wages and shift differential earned to afternoon or midnight shift employees who have been specifically designated to assume the shift security responsibilities.
MINIMUM EARNINGS GUARANTEE . Employees who have not received advance notice of the cancellation of their shift, who report for
work but are sent home without commencing work, shall receive two (2) hours' straight time pay at their average rate.
11.06 The Employer shall pay employees commencing work and as set out in this Agreement, for the entire period spent at their place of work, with a minimum in any one day, of four (4) hours' average rate. The exception to the above shall be in cases of accident, breakdown, interruption of power, or acts of God, in which case the minimum shall be (2) hours' pay calculated as in 11.05.
ARTICLE 12 - OVERTIME
12.01	Whenever overtime is requested, notice of such requirement shall be given to the employee involved at least four (A) hours in advance witn mV exception or unpredictable overtime requirements
which arise too late in the shift to allow four (4) hours advance notice.
12.02	No worker shall be dismissed for refusing to work overtime.
12.03	No overtime shall be worked or permitted when a general Jantzeh shop or general Local meeting is held at the end of the day shift. The Employer must be notified by noon on the day previous that such meeting is to be held.
12.04	Overtime shall be paid for at time and one-half or double time as provided in accordance with the following:
i) TIME WORKERS
Total pay “
(Hourly rate x regular hours) plus (Hourly ratex overtime
hours x 1-4 or 2)
li) PIECE WORKERS
Total pay “
(Average hourly rate of the day x regular hours) plus (Average hourly rate of the day x overtime hours x 1*4 or 2)
The 1-4 and 2 referred to above represents time and one half or double time.
The "Average hourly rate of the day" referred to above ■
Total eemlngs of the day (excluding overtime bonus)
------- Divided by » ......
Total hours worked in the day
/
- 8 -
12.05	All work in excess of seven and one half <7-i) hours in a day or thirty seven and one half (37-|) hours in a week shall be paid for
at time and one half. All work in excess of a forty-eight (48) hours in a week shell be paid for at double time.
12.06	Employees in each department shall be given as equal an opportunity as possible to work overtime, it being understood that, where overtime involves the continuation of a particular skilled job, the incumbent will perform the overtime unless he/she is not available.
ARTICLE 13 - WAGE STANDARDS AND GENERAL INCREASE TOR PIECE WORKERS AND TIME WORKERS
13.01	Effective September 1, 1988 all rates for piece workers with the exception of 'A' Operators guaranteed rate in all classifications and ’B1 Operators guaranteed rate in Sew and Press classification, shall receive an increase of four (42) percent based on the average
earnings per category, and as shown in Appendix A. All time workers will receive four (42) percent to their present rates.
Effective September 1, 1989 all workers will receive an additional three and a half (3|X) percent.
13.02	Average hourly time rates shall be calculated by dividing the total number of piece work hours during the previous three (3) month, period into the total amount of piece work money earned during
the same period excluding the half time overtime premium and shift differential, and make-up pay.
(a) The above.calculations are to he made each quartet as of the payroll ending closest to September 1, December 1, Match 1 and June 1.
13.03
13.04
13.05
(b)	farpurpose of payment of average hourly time, the latest calculated quarterly average shall be used.
(c)	When increases are given during the term of this Agreement, a like increase shall be added to the previous quarterly average to compensate for the contract increase.
(d)	Quarterly averages and the guaranteed hourly rate shall be issued to each individual quarterly.
The Union shall be provided with a list of the averages quarterly as provided for in Article 13.02 above.
Crafts and Apprentice minimums as set out in The Appendix and attached hereto ate an Integral part of this Agreement.
Each Employees' incentive earnings shall be computed and credited dally.
15.02
15.03
15.04
ARTICLE
16.01
16.02
16.03
16.04
16.05
11
inform the Union Representative that a grievance exists. The Onion Representative, Shop Chairperson or the designated Shop Committee memberand the affected individual, or if a group of affected individuals, a representative of that group, shall meet with the designated Company Representative(s) to attempt to resolve the dispute. If the matter cannot be settled in the Step 2 procedure, or within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the Step 2 meeting, it may then be referred to the Standing Arbitrator, whose decision shall be binding on both parties.
The Standing Arbitrator shall be mutually agreed upon by the Union and thefinployer and shall deal only with matters pertaining to piece work time rates.
The Standing Arbitrator shall serve for a period of one (1) year from September 1 of each year and thereafter unless either party gives notice prior to July 1 of any year that they no longer agree
to such individual arbitrator.
The Standing Arbitrator's charges and any accomodation costs shall be equally shared.
16 - DIVISION OF WORK. ASSIGNMENT TO OTHER WORK
The available work shall be distributed as equally as possible among those workers employed in a department or section Cdepart-ment or section as that department or" section to which the worker
is normally assigned). This does not interfere with the employers right to layoff during period of work shortage.
Where it becomes necessary to send out workwhich is nonaally done by members of the bargaining unit the Union shall be advised.
No member of the employer or supervisory employee or designate or any other person outside the bargaining unit shall perform any work on any job covered by this Agreement except in cases of emergency, instruction and preparation of samples.
The Employer shall designate specific skills as the regular work for each piece worker.
Regular work shall be those skills to which the piece workers are normally assigned. This may include more than one (D skill.
12 -
16.06
Piece workers who are assigned or are requested to perform other than their regular work while their regular work is available shall be paid for such other work on the basis of their average earnings as defined in Article 13.02 or the piece work earnings from the new work, whichever is greater.
16.07
Piece workers who are assigned or are requested to perform other than their regular work whiletheir regular work is unavailable, shall receive for tine spent on such other work, their piece work average, or the piece work earnings from the new work, whichever is greater, for three working days. Their earnings from their regular work shall be kept separate and apart.
16.08
When a special machinq operator is required to work on a Special Machine that he/she has never worked on before, the operator will be paid average earnings as defined in Article 13.02 or piece work earnings, which ever is greater for three working days.
ARTICLE 17- VACANCIES . JOB POSTINGS
1 a ;
The Employer shall post for two (2) working days all vacancies
New operations will be posted for five (5) working days.
( b ) ( c )
Resent Employees shall have priority by seniority in bidding for such vacancies.
The successful candidate has to demonstrate the ability to perform the new operation to the satisfaction of the Company and if not satisfactory, may he transferred to the previous job.
17.02
( a ) ( b )
For present categories, au employee may request to be transferred when a vacancy occurs.
The Employer shall consider the request based on its production requirements, as well as the skills and qualifications of the Employee.
( c )
If theEmployer consents to the transfer, the Employee terminates his seniority in the previous category.
17.03
The Employer shall provide the Union Office with a copy of each job
- 13
ARTICLE 18 - HOLIDAYS
18.01	The following Holidays shall be observed and all Employees covered by this Agreement, whether time or piece workers, shall be paid a full day's pay for them, in any event and regardless of whether such Holidays fall on a working day or non-working day of the week or any non-working week.
New Years Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
'British Columbia Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day
Christmas Eve Christmas Day Boxing Day Floating Holiday
By December 31st of each year, the Employer will discuss the date to be observed as the Floating Statutory Holiday during the next calendar year. The Holiday will be observed during one of the following three periods.
Easter Monday
Extension of July 1st Holiday Extension of Christmas Holiday
One factor to be considered in making the choice. is the projected sales situation for the coming year.
Any Statutory holiday proclaimed by the Federal or Provincial Government shall be added to the above list.
18.-02	No work shall be permitted or done on any of the above holidays.
18.03	The Employees shall be paid the equivalent of one (1) days' pay
(not including overtime, hut including shift differential when ' applicable) for each of the above holidays based on the average daily earnings as defined in Article 13.02.
18.OA No employee may be compelled to work onany religious holiday of
particular significance to the individual. The Employee must notify her Department Supervisor At least one week in advance of her intent to be absent from work.
18.05
In order to qualify for the holiday pay, an Employee must have bean employed for at least thirty (30) calendar days.
In order to be entitled to holiday pay, an employee must work his/ her last scheduled working day immediately preceding the holiday and his/her first scheduled working day immediately following the
15
19.06	After twenty (20) years of service , employees shall receive five (5) weeks vacation and vaction pay equivalent to 102 of gross earnings.
19.07	Vacation pay is calculated on earnings for complete pay periods between July 1 of one year, and June 30 of the next year.
19.08	Employees shall continue seniority, for the purpose of vacation, from year to year provided their service is considered to be continuous as defined in Article 10 (Seniority and Bridging).
19.09	The plant shell normally shut down for a vacation period to betaken by all Employees covered by this Agreement.When it is decided that a shut-down is not practical, the company shall advise the committee by February 28 of that year and shell meet with the committee to discuss the vacation arrangement for that year.
19.10	Employees with three (3) or more-weeks of vacation entitlement will be granted the balance of their entitlement at a mutually agreeable time. Every effort will be made to grant this portion of the vacation at the time applied for. However, the decision will be predicated by production requirements and the numbers away in the particular department at the time requested. Where a conflict
in dates arises, departmental seniority in the operation shall apply.
19.11	Once every three (3) years employees with four (4) years or more
of service shall be entitled to receive their vacation entitlement in full for one uninterrupted period.
Those wishing to avail themselves of this arrangement mist apply in advance giving dates required by March 31st of the year in which the vacation is planned, or sixty (60) days in advance, whichever
is earlier. Every effort will be made to approve the application for the dates requested, hut approval will be predicated on the criteria outlined in 19.12.
19.12	The Employer shall circulate a vacation calendar between February 28 and March 31 of each year. All Employees who havevacation entitlement in excess of the factory shutdown period for that year may apply for vacation in accordance with their seniority. The vacation calender shall indicate the number of Employees who can be spared from each department at any one time and Employees shall Write their names in the blanks on the calendar when it is their turn.
- 17 -
advance. In such cases, the Employee shall be entitled to the full eighteen (18) weeks, commencing on the date the leave of absence starts.
(c)	An Employee may return to work Stan earlier date then the stipulated seven (7) weeks after the date of the birth, providing the Employee applies in writing at least one (1) week prior to the intended date of return, and providing she presents
a certificate from a qualified Medical Practitioner that she is able to resume work.
(d)	The employer may require an Employee to commence e leave of absence under 20.04(a) where the duties of the employee cannot
reasonable be performed because of the pregnancy and to continue the leave of • bsence until the Employee provides a certificate from a Medical Practitioner stating that she is able to perform her duties or until the expiration of the stipulated eighteen (18) weeks.
(e)	where an Employee who has been granted leave of absence under
this section is, for reasons related to the birth or the termination of the pregnancy %certified by 6 Medical Practitioner, unable to work or return to work after the expiration of the leave, the employer shall grant to the Employee further leaves of absence from work, without pay for a period specified in one or more certificates, but not exceeding a total of six (6) consacutiveweeks.	.
Where an ihnployee gives birth or the pregnancy Is terminated before a request for leave Is made, the Employer shall, on the Employee's request and on receipt of a certificate of a Medical
Practitioner stating that the Employee has given birth or the pregnancy was terminated on a specified date, grant the Employee leave of absence from work, without pay,for a period of six (6) consecutive weeks, or a shorter period the Employee requests, commencing on the specified date.
If an Employee, after receiving the full maternity leave end. if appropriate, the extension provided for in 20.04(d), is still
unable to return for work because of illness, she my obtain leave in accordance with 20.02.
(h) If the Employee is unable to return as a result of domestic problems related to the pregnancy, she may apply for personal
leave as outlined in Article 20.01
The Employee shall continue to participate in the benefit plans during the period of maternity leave.
18
When the Employee returns from maternity leave, the Employer shall compute the earnings based upon her guaranteed rate which she would have received had she not been on leave, and shall forward to the Union the appropriate percentage deduction from these earnings to cover the cost of the Health and Welfare and Retirement Benefits.
(j) On return from maternity leave , an Employee shall be reinstated in the job which she previously occupied or in a job in the same level and pay.
20.05	ADOPTION LEAVE
a.	Employees who have completed one (1) year service with the Company shall be granted up to six (6) weeks leave of absence without pay, for the purpose of adopting a child under five years of age.
b.	Employees wishing to obtain adoption leave must advise the Employer in writing at the time they apply for adoption. They should subseguently advise the Employer as far in advance as possible of the commencement date of the leave.
C. Adoption leave cm be scheduled to commence no earlier than the date of the adoption and no later than two (2) weeks following that date.
d. If an Employee is unable to return to work as a result of domestic problems related	."wj apply for
personal leave as outlined in Article 20.01.
20.06	PATERNITY LEAVE
Paternity leave shall be granted, without pay, for up to a maximum
of six (6) weeks. Employees wishing to obtain Paternity leave
must -advise the Employer in writing in advance.
20.07	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
(a)	Upon the reguest of the Employee, up to three (3) days with , pay will be granted by the Employer immediately following
the death of an Employee's spouse, child, father, mother, father-in-law or mother-in-law.
(b)	Upon the request of the Employee, up to one (1) day with pay will be granted by the Employer immediately following the death of an Employee's Brother. Sister.
(c)	No compensation will be paid for time off that is not a working day. .
- 19 -
(d) "Spouse" shall include persons of the opposite sex who have co-habited for two or more years.
20.08	JURY DUTY LEAVE
Employees covered by this Agreement who are called upon for Jury Duty or service of a like nature shall receive their piecework average, or for time workers, hourly rate of pay, provided hours during the normal working period not spent on such duty are spent on the job. and by surrendering to the Employer duty pay received.
ARTICLE 21- LAY-OFF AMD RECALL
21.01 21.02 7t m
21.04
21.05
21.06
21.07
21.08
In the event of a lay-off of two (2) weeks duration or less, the Employees affected will be determined by department seniority and competency.
In the event of a lay-off of rote than two (2) weeks duration, the Employees affected will be determined by plant seniority and competency.
In the event of »_Inv.rtff of mnro than two (2) weeks duration, the
Employees who will be affected who have more than one (1) year service shall be given one (1) week notice of lay-off or pay in lieu of such notice. The advance notice or payment in lieu of notice shall not . to force majeure - major power or mechanical failure, fire, flood, or other similar occurences beyond the control of the Company.
When a lay-off of more than two (2) weeks duration is required, the Employer shall discuss the details with the Union as far in advance of the lay-off date as possible.
Employees laid-off shall be recalled before any new Employees are hired providing they are qualified to do the available work. They shall be entitled to at least one day's notice of recall.
In the event that an Employee obtains work elsewhere while onlay-off they shall not forfeit their recall rights.
In the event that an Employee is laid-off they shall be given an approximate date of recall.
The Shop Chairperson or the designated Shop Committee member shall be informed of all lay-offs, in excess of one (1) day.
- 21 -
Length of Service:
After 7 years After 8 years After 9 years end longer
Severance Pays
Six (6) week's pay Sewn (7) week’s pay
Bight (8) week's pay
ARTICLE 23 - TNDTVTDIIAL AGREEMENT
23.01	No individual contract shell be entered into by the Employer with any of its Employees without prior discussion with, and consent of, the union.
ARTTCLF 24 - MTSHRI.1 -ANEOUS
Wherein this Agreement the singular or the masculine has been used, the same shall be construed as meaning the plural or the feminine or neuter as the case lay be or where the context of this Agreement my require.
The Article and Section Titles are included solely for convenience and shall in no event be construed to affect or modify any part of the provisions of this Agreement or be construed as part thereof.
The Employer shall provide the Union with suitable Bulletin Board Space(s) for the exclusive use of the Union, in a place (s) readily accessible to all Union Employees.
The Union shall be provided with a list of all the employees of the Company who are classified as Assistant Supervisors.
ARTICLE 25 - STRIKES AMD LOCKOUTS
25.01	It is agreed that there shall be no strike, slow dotm or group absenfce on the part of the Union and that there shall be no lockout on the part of the Employer for the duration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 26 - HM-ATION WITH FIRMS Oil STRIKE
26.01	The Employer agrees that it will not perform any work or give any workto any jobber, manufacturer, contractor, or sub-contrator employed in the apparel and clothing industry with which a legal strike »V«r= Jtaar <deilttEo! and in no SVciit 5lies2.1. it require any of
24.01
24.02
24.03
24.04
23
access to the place of Business of the Employer for the purpose of dealing with any specific complaint, condition or matter arising out of or pertaining to this Agreement or its operation or the relation of the Parties hereto and such Representatives and the Employer shall' cooperate together so as to enable such matters to be investigated. dealt with and disposed of as satisfactorily and expeditiously as possible, but not so as to disturb the business of the Employer.
31.02	The Union agrees that it will not interview any Employee or Employees during regular scheduled working hours without the permission of an Employer's representative.
31.03	The Employer shall upon reguest make available to such Representatives of the Union the pertinent payroll records and payroll books and any time study records employed in setting piece rates.
ARTICLE 32 - SHOP CHAIRPERSON. SHOP COMMITTEE
32.01 The Union shall notify the Employer of the names of Employees designated as the Shop Chairperson or Shop Committee members who shall deal with the Employer with such matters as may arise in the absence of a Union Business Agent or Representative.
ARTICLE 33 - HEALTH AMD SAFETY C0MMTTEB
33.01	The Shop Cosnittee and Management Representatives shall act as the
Health and Safety Committee, and a portion of the Shop Committee meetings shall be devoted to Health and Safety matters. Copies of all minutes of the Health and Safety Committee portions of these Committee meetings shall be forwarded to the Union.
ARTICLE 34 - ADJUSTMENT Of GRIEVANCES
34.01 in this Agreement, the meaning of Grievance is as follows:
Any dispute or -difference between Local 287 of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' &ion end Jantzen Canada Inc. governing the dismissal or discipline of any Employee bound by this Agreement, end any difference between the parties bound by this Agreement concerning its' interpretation, application or alleged violation thereof.
24
34.02
If any grievance arises affecting any Bnployee bound by this Agreement, it shall be finally and conclusively settled without stoppage of work in the following manner:
step 1 - The Employee concerned shall within thirty (30) working days of the occurrence refer any complaint to his/her
nr a -I t-Viar A 4 rmm^ 11
person.
step 2 - If the complaint is not satisfactorily settled within five (5) working days, the Employee concerned or the Shop Committee person shall submit the grievance in writing within fifteen (15) working days to the Personnel Manager or his designate.
Step 3 - If a satisfactory settlement is not reached within ten (10) working days of the written Grievance being submitted, the matter shall be referred to a Senior Union Representative and a designated Management Representative.
Step 4 - If a satisfactory settlement is not reached, the matter shall be referred to arbitration within thirty (30) work ing days of the referral to Step 3.
NOTE - Group Grievance and Union Policy Grievance shall be referred to Step 2.
ABTICIJt 35 - ARBITRATION
35.01	When a matter Is referred to arbitration, the Union end the Employer shall meet in order to agree upon a single arbitrator, or failing agreement, each shell name an Arbitration Board Member. The two Arbitration Board Appointees shall meet within seven (7) working days in order to arrange for an Arbitration chairperson. Failing agreement on e Chairperson they shall request the Labour Relations Board to appoint a Chairperson.
35.02	The Arbitrator (s) shall have the power to determine whether the matter is arbitrable. Having made this determination, the Arbitrator (s) shall hear and determine the differences and shall within fourteen (14) working days following completion of the hearing issue a decision, which shall be final and binding upon the parties.
35.03	The Arbitrator (s) shall not have the jurisdiction or authority to alter, modify, extend, or amend the provisions of this Agreement.
- 25 -
ARTICLE 36 - DISCHARGE FOR CAUSE
36.01	No Employee shall be discharged except for proper cause. Whenever the Employer intends to discharge an Employee, the Employer shall, when feasible'advise the Union Shop Steward in advance.
ARTICLE 37 - DURATION AMD RENEWAL OF AGREEMENT
37.01	This Agreement shall be effective as of the ff|-s» Hav nf Snp^yhor
and shall continue in full force and effect up to the close of business on thP thirty first	«o<>nj and thereafter
from year to year unless either the union or the Employer gives written notice to the other of its u65i[« to tSvise uua AgxStsnRsiit or to conclude a new Collective Agreement.
37.02	Where notice to revise or to conclude a new Collective Agreement is given the provisions of this .Agreement shall continue in force until a new Agreement is signed or the right to strike or lockout accrues, whichever comes first.
37.03	It is mutually agreed that the operation of sub-section 2 of Section 66 of the Labour code of British Columbia Act is excluded from this Agreement.
ARTICLE 38 - RATIFICATION AND AMENDMENTS
38.01	This Agreement is subject to the ratification of the Members of Local 287 of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union employed byJantzen Canada Inc. .
38.02	This Agreement may be amended by written agreement and authorisation
of both Parties or theft successors.
27
*£88
SEB8
GUARANTEED RATES FOR BAND KNIFE CUTTERS
CATEGORY A 21 WEEKS TO 36 WEEKS 6 WEEKS TO 21 WEEKS START RATE TO SIX WEEKS MUNUTE VALUE
8.642
8.366
8.071
7.778
0.14404
8.944
8.659
8.353
8.050
0.14908
GUARANTEED RATES FOR SPECIAL CUTTING CATEGORY
CATEGORY A 21 WEEKS TO 36 WEEKS 6 WEEKS TO 21 WEEKS START RATE TO SIX WEEKS MINUTE VALUE
9.064
8.771
8.465
8.157
0.15106
9.381
9.078
8.761
8.442
0.15635
GURANTEED RATES FOR MACHINE SPREADERS
CATEGORY A 21 WEEKS TO 36 WEEKS 6 WEEKS TO 21 WEEKS START RATE TO SIX WEEKS MINUTE VALUE
10.242
9.910
9.563
9.215
0.17071
10.600
10.257
9.898
9.538
0.17668
GUARANTEED RATES FOR CUTTER CATEGORY 1
CATEGORY A 21 WEEKS TO 36 WEEKS 6 WEEKS TO 21 WEEKS START RATE TO SIX WEEKS MINUTE VALUE
11.127
10.769
10.392
9.084
0.18545
11.516
11.146
10.756
9.402
0.19194
30
KNITTER CLASSIFICATIONS
KNIT TECHNICIANS	- Qualified Knit Mechanics.
(a )
( b )
( c )
( d )
( a )
<	f .)
<	B )
KNIT MECHANICS
( a ) Full operating knowledge of the knitting machinery in more than one section.
( b ) Able to make mechanical repairs of these Machines.
( c ) Under supervision, draw up knitting pattern for sample development.
( d ) Submitto technicians list of necessary machinery replacement parts.
( e ) Under supervision carry out preventative maintenance program.
( f ) Basic knowledge of fabric finishing.
( g ) Train future operators.
( h ) Provide supervision of repairs and set-ups on the knitting machinery. KNITTERS - CATEGORY 1
Full operating knowledge of all knitting machinery. able to make mechanical repairs on these machines.
Capable of developing and drawing up knitting patterns for sample development.
Maintain list of necessary machinery replacement parts.
Carry out preventative maintenance programs.
Knowledge of fabric finishing.
Train future operators.
Provide supervision of repairs and set ups on the knitting machinery.
( a ) Under supervision, qualified in basic mechanical repairs of a particular typo of machine.
( b ) Capable of making fabric teats and making tension adjustments.
C c ) Able to make minor set-ups and pattern changes.
KNITTERS - CATEGORY 2
( a ) Able to operate a full quota of knitting machines in any one section. ( b ) 'Able to make minor repairs and recognise machine knitting faults.
KNIT HELPERS
( a ) Able to pick up drop-outs.
( b ) Capable of interpreting knitting schedules. ( c ) Make adjustments in chain lengths.
( d ) Check fabric for faults.
KMTT TRAINERS
Category used to describe those helpers who will eventually become knitters Category 2.
ALL TRAINEES SHOULD HAVE MECHANICAL APTITUDE
- 31 -
CUTTER CLASSIFICATIONS CUTTERS
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS - Fully responsible for their lay; taking the marker, checking for errors or omissions, laying up and cutting properly.
CUTTER CATEGORY 1 - Working primarily on volume lays of all grades of fabric regardless of complexity. Fully experienced in use of lay up machine. '
SPECIAL CUTTER CATEGORY
Fully experienced In .tiie lay up, marking and cutting of matched fabric lays in single or multiple panel lengths. These lays consist of engineered patterns, plaids or stripes precisely matched to enable quality construction of the garments.
BAND KNIFE CUTTERS - As Cutter Category 2 plus operate the band knife.
CUTTERS CATEGORY 2 ~ Qualified to cut smaller and less complex lays, may use lay up machine and perform all duties of a stacker as required.
- When qualified by test and time shall move to Cutter 1 category only when an opening exists.
CUTTER_IMPROVERS - Second six (6) months. CUTTER LEARNERS - First six (6) months-.
MACHINE SPREADERS - Fully qualified to load and operate lay up machines properly, taking into account all fabric characteristics; inspects, removes or marks :	and splices as indicated!
on marker.
BUNDLERS - Assemble garments into bundles, make recuts and hand trims.
STACKERS - Qualified to stack smaller and less complex lays. marking pattern on top layer if required.
THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES APPLY FOR PROMOTION IN THE MECHANICAL CATEGORIES
1.	KNITTER TRAINEES
When qualified by test and time be promoted automatically toKnitter2.
2.	KNITTERS 2
32
3.	KNITTER 1
When qualified by test and time shall move to Knit Mechanic when an opening occurs as a Knit Mechanic.
4.	KNIT MECHANICS
When qualified by test end time shall move to Knit Technician when an opening occurs as a Knit Technician.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties have hereunto affixed their hands and seals and the Corporate Parties have hereunto caused to be affixed their Corporate Seals as attested by the hands of their proper officers in that behalf, and the Union has affixed the hands and seals of its properly accredited officers and representatives in their behalf the day and year first above written.
LOCAL 287 OF THE
JANTZEN CANADA INC.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Between JANTZEN CANADA INC.
AND
LOCAL 287
INTERNATIONAL LADIES ' GARMENT WORKERS ' UNION
LAY-OFF PROCEDURE
Although the Employer will attempt to 'provide continuous employment for all Employees, the nature of the garment industry necessitates periodic lay-off. The following will be the procedure followed by the Employer in the event of lay-off.
In effect, there are three types of lay-off situations:
1.	limited short term- lay-off lasting two weeks or Tess.
2. Limited long term - lay-off lasting more than two weeks.
3. Redundancy	- lay-off occurIng because of technological change
or other change involving permanent curtailment.
As any lay-off becomes necessary, the following steps will be observed by the Employer.
GENERAL
1.	Determine if lay-off is limited short term, limited long term, or redundancy.
2.	Identify the operation (s) in the affected department that is the cause of the lay-off.
3.	Identify the most junior employee(s) in the department employed at the affected operation.
LIMITED SHORT TERM
4.	If the lay-off is limited short term, the most junior employee(s)
in the department employed at the operation involved, will be reassigned if a vacancy exists in another department that the employee(s) has been previously trained to perform. If there is no suitable work, the employee(s) will be laid off but not for longer than ten (10) working days. Those who are assigned to other work, may apply to return to their former work when that work again becomes available.
LIMITED LONG TERM
5.
When the lay-off is limited lung term, five (5) days notice will be given if the affected employee(s) has one or more years of seniority
LAY-OFF PROCEDURE - continued
I.TMTTF.D LONG TERM
continued
6. The more junior employee(s) in each of the skill areas involved will be re-aSSlgned within the department In accordance with Department seniority to the more junior position of the same skill or one that the employee has previously trained to perform.
Failing re-assignment in accordance with the above, the employee(s) shall be re-assigned in accordance with plant seniority to the more junior position of the same skill or one that the employee has been previously trained to perform.
The t-e-assigned employee must demonstrate in the early stages a reasonable ability to perform the job satisfactorily.
if there is no suitable work the employee(s) will be laid off.
7. The employee(s) facing a limited long term lay-off, can choose to be re-trained providing a vacancy exists in another department and providing the employee has sufficient seniority. The Employer will endeavour to train up to eight (8) weeks, but the trainee must demonstrate in the early stages of training a reasonable ability to perform the job satisfactorily. If an employee accepts re-
inwwj, t*ww^ wiJ1 be irv>rJpsr°v/'pcvarw/it.lM}the new department
where the vacancy occurs. They may apply to return to their original work and department after the seasonal work in that new department has been completed and provided their original work be available.
B. Should lack of work within a particular skill area necessitate a lay-off, any employee within that area may choose to take a voluntary lay-off.
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANCE OR REDUNDANCY
9. In case of lay-off OCCUring because of technological change or redundancy, the Employer will follow the procedures as laid out 1n Article (22) - Technological Change.
GENERAL
10. As openings occur, employees on lay-off will be recalled in accordance with their seniority provided they can perform the job satisfactorily. When original work becomes available, the re-assigned, retrained, or short/long term employee(s) will be notified.
11
12
When the need for long term lay-off becomes .apparent .the finloyer will advise the Union and sit down with the Committee to olscUSS the mechanics of the lay-off and to review the list of the employees who will be affected. This meeting will take place as far in advance as is reasonably possible.
All Information relevant to lay-off will be made available to the Union on request.
LAY-OFF PROCEDURE - continued
DEFINITIONS
13.	Departments - The following are considered to be Departments:
Knitting, Cutting, Fabric Finishing, Each of the five (5)
Sewing Departments, Finals, Shipping, and Quality Control Audit.
14.	Redundancy - For the purpose of this clause, a redundant employee
is one whose Job has disappeared because of a permanent curtailment of an operation.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
LOCAL 287 OF THE INTERNATIONAL LADIES' GARMENT WORKERS ' UNION
AND
JANTZEN CANADA INC.
It is agreed that the following employees shall continue to be paid shift differential at 6-iX over the day shift rate.
KEVAN ERNESTI KI HONG TAN
This arrangement shall continue for these employees so long as the shift on which they are currently employed is retained.
LOCAL 287 OF THE INTERNATIONAL LADIES' GARMENT WORKERS' UNION
JANTZEN CANADA INC.
Dated this