AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
AND:
AND:
ASSOCIATED CLOTHING MANUFACTURERS OF THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC, INC.;
MONTREAL CLOTHING CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION INC.;
THE QUEBEC COUNCIL OF ODD PANTS EMPLOYERS;
RAINWEAR & SPORTWEAR MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION;
THE CANADIAN TRIMMINGS MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION;
(hereinafter referred to as the
“EMP
LOYE
R”)
AND:	MONTREAL JOINT BOARD, UNION OF
NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES (QFL-CLC)
(hereinafter collectively referred to as
t h e “UNI ON
Agreement commencing:	December 1,1995
Agreement terminating on: November 30.1998 Agreement signed on:_______December 21.1995
INDEX
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8
ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26 ARTICLE 27 ARTICLE 28 ARTICLE 29 ARTICLE 30 ARTICLE 31 ARTICLE 32 ARTICLE 33
COVERAGE..................
UNIONRECOGNITION .........
PROBATIONARYPERIOD........
UNION SECURITY............
WORKING PRACTICES.........
ENGINEERED INCENTIVE SYSTEMS
1
2
3
3
4
6
WAGES..................................14
CALCULATIONS AND PAYMENTS BASED ON AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS................15
WORK WEEK AND OVERTIME.......
VACATION PERIOD .................
SUMMER VACATION..................
YEAR-END VACAHON ................
LEGAL HOLIDAYS...................
EQUAL DIVISION OF WORK AND SENIORITY. INSURANCEAND RETIREMENTFUNDS.....
HOMEWORK...................
NON-DISCRIMINATION.........
CONTRACTORS................
CONTRACTORS OR MANUFACTURERS
16
17
18 21 22
24
25 32 32
32
33
CANVAS AND SHOULDERPADS .....
UNIONLABEL ...................
CHECKOFF ....................
RIGHT OF DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
34
34
35
36
STRIKE OR LOCKOUT .......
ABSENCES ................
BEREAVEMENT .............
SEPARATIONFROM EMPLOYMENT
37
38
40
41
PLANTREMOVAL................................42
APPRENTICE TRAINING.........................42
EXTENSION OF COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT .
PARITY OF ADVANTAGES ..................
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE....................
ARBITRATION............................
42
43
43
44
ARTICLE 34	LEGAL REPRESENTATION.............................45
ARTICLE 35	SEPARABILITY.....................................45
ARTICLE 36	RECORDS..........................................46
ARTICLE 37	GENERAL..........................................46
ARTICLE 38	TERM OF AGREEMENT................................46
APPENDIX "A"	 48
APPENDIX "B"	 50
APPENDIX "C"	  52
APPENDIX "D"	 54
APPENDIX "E"	 56
LETTER OF AGREEMENT CONCERNING THE APPLICATION OF CLAUSE 6.1 .58
LETTER OF AGREEMENT ON LITERACY ..............................60
LETTER OF AGREEMENT CONCERNING THE
APPLICATION OF CLAUSES 11.2, 11.3 AND 27,3.............62
LETTER OF AGREEMENT CONCERNING CLAUSE 15.3..................64
WHEREAS the Association and the Union desire a continuation of their contractual relationship, which has existed for many years, for the following purposes:
a)	To operate Union shops;
b)	To continue the principle of collective bargaining;
c)	To submit to arbitration in cases of dispute;
d)	For promoting the best interest of the clothing industry;
e)	For the creation and maintenance of friendly and harmonious relations, cooperation and goodwill between employers and employees;
f)	For fixing and adjusting wages and working hours;
g)	For the prevention of strikes, stoppages of work, lockouts, etc;
h)	For the amicable settlement of all grievances, controversies and disputes which may arise between the parties;
i)	For the maintenance of a high order of discipline and efficiency by the willing cooperation of all parties concerned;
j)	For the maintenance of good standards of workmanship and conduct;
k)	For the assurance of proper quantity, quality and cost of production, as well as uninterrupted production;
l)	To promote through good labour relations as stipulated herein the health and safety of employees.
2
WHEREAS, the respective representatives of the members of the Association and the Union shall in their dealings with each other be leaders in promoting that co-operative spirit and goodwill which underlies this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual convenants, promises and agreements herein contained, and the intention of the parties to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1	COVERAGE
1.1	The term “employee” as used in this Agreement shall apply to all production employees of the Employer, including ticket girls, label sewers, floor help and warehouse, shipping and receiving employees, but excluding office, truck drivers, sales and maintenance employees.
1.2	The Union shall have the right to deal directly with any individual Employer provided, however, that such dealings are consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
1.3	The present Collective Labour Agreement applies to all shops, for which the Employer is member of the Association and for which the Union holds an accreditation.
The Union undertakes to advise the Association of all new accreditations it obtains.
1.4	An employee transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit may be reinstated by the Employer to the bargaining unit with all his rights within six (6) months from his transfer if he has less than five (5) years of service with the Employer or within twelve (12) months from the transfer if he has five (5) years or more of service with the Employer.
An employee who is returned to the bargaining unit after the delay hereabove mentioned shall be considered as a new employee.
ARTICLE 2	IJNTON RECOGNITION
2.1	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for his
employees with reference to wages, hours and working conditions.
3
The Union hereby recognizes the Association as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for all the Employers subject to this labour agreement.
2.2	The Employer shall recognize and deal with such representatives of the employees as the Union may elect or appoint and shall permit such representatives elected or appointed by the Union to visit his plant at any time during working hours, in accordance with existing regulations, without however disturbing production in the plant.
2.3	The Employer agrees that such representatives as the Union may elect or appoint shall have access to such pay records and related production records of individual employees, as the Union may reasonably require as a collective bargaining agent and/or contracting party hereunder.
2.4	The Employer shall furnish the Union with an employment list indicating the names and the last hiring date of the employees. Said employment list shall be posted on the bulletin board within thirty (30) days of the signature of the Collective Agreement. The last hiring date of each employee shall be presumed correct, unless contested in accordance with the grievance procedure. The employment list shall be updated every six (6) months.
ARTTCT.F 3	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
3,1	A new employee shall be considered a probationary employee until he has performed sixty
(60) days of work for the Employer within a period of six (6) continuous months from the date of hiring.
However upon written agreement between the Employer and the Union, the probationary period may be extended up to an additional thirty (30) days.
During such probationary period, he shall have no seniority rights. Upon completion of this period, the date of the beginning of the employee’s seniority shall be the date the employee began his probationary period. It is understood and agreed that the termination of employment of a probationary employee shall be at the exclusive decision of the Employer and shall irrevocably be deemed to be for just and sufficient cause; no arbitrator or board of arbitration shall have anyjurisdiction to hear a grievance relating thereto nor to alter, modify or amend the termination of employment or substitute any other penalty for such termination.
4
The term “regular employee” as used in this agreement shall mean an employee who has completed the probationary period.
ARTICLE 4	UNION SECURITY
4.1	Membership in the Union shall be required as a condition of employment of each employee.
4.2	All employee who are new members or hereafter become members of the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, remain members in good standing during the term of this Agreement.
4.3	The Employer agrees to employ only members of the Montreal Joint Board, Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees (QFL-CLC) in good standing, and whenever an Employer shall be in need of additional workers, application shall be made to the Union, specifying the number and kind of workers desired. If, for any reason, the Union should not be able to furnish the desired workers within forty-eight (48) hours from the time of the receipt of the request, the Employer shall have the right to secure such workers in the open market, and the workers so secured shall become members of the Union.
4.4	All new employees shall fill out a Union card when hired. Once a week the Employer shall notify the shop chairperson in writing of the name and operation of any new employee and give him the Union cards.
ARTICLE S	WORKING PRACTICES
5.1	Changes from one operation to another, fixing of prices for new piece-work rates, reduction in number of employees and any other matters affecting the wages, wage rates, hours, working conditions and conditions of employment shall be made in a manner consistent with the express provisions of this agreement.
5.2	The Union recognizes the right of the Employer to introduce new machinery, changes in manufacturing techniques and in production methods, technological changes or improvements in his plant. In such case, the provisions of clauses 6.20, 6.21 and 6.22, except paragraph b) of clause 6,20 shall apply. The rate or rates applicable shall be
	5 determined by mutual agreement or, failing agreement, by arbitration in accordance with article 33 of the present agreement.
5.3	If an employee is temporarily transferred from one job or operation to another at the request of the Employer, he shall, while working on the job or operation to which he has been transferred, be paid his average hourly rate prevailing atthe time of the transfer. The conditions to apply upon permanent transfer shall be mutually agreed upon by the Employer and the Union.
5.4	Established piece-work sections or operations shall not be changed to any other form of payment without the mutual agreement of the parties.
5.5	Since it is the intention of the parties to maintain full employment, it is agreed that sections, operations and/or departments shall not be overcrowded by employing more workers than are necessary to meet the production requirements of the Employer.
5.6	The Employer agreesto give reasonable notice to the shop chairperson and the employees affected when overtime is to be worked or when a change in a work schedule is to take place.
5.7	a) In the event of changes in the methods of production made by the addition or use of machinery, or otherwise, such changes shall be permitted subject to the provisions of this Article.
	5) Clauses 5.1,5.2,5.4 and 5.7 paragraph a) do not apply to shipping, receiving and warehouse employees.
5.8	The Employer agrees to give the Union reasonable notice in advance of any changes.
5.9	Any employee ordered to report for work and reporting will be guaranteed four (4) consecutive hours’ work, or four (4) hours’ pay in lieu thereof. However, this provision shall not apply if work is not available because of circumstances beyond the control of management, such as power failure, fire, machinery breakdown, not susceptible of repair within a reasonable time, or the failure of other employees to report or to remain on the job.
5.10	All employees will be considered called to work unless notified not to report to work within a reasonable time prior to their regular starting time. An employee who could not be reached during the period of notification shall not be entitled to claim the application
of 5.9, Each employee is responsible for informingthe Employer in writing of any change of address or of phone number, The Employer agrees to keep such information confidential.
5.11	a) In the event of a total or partial shutdown of operations as a result of
circumstances out of the control of the Employer such as fire, fire drills, power failure, failure in the heating system, boiler system, steam generating system or any other system or service, the incentive or hourly rated employees affected by this shutdown shall be compensated at their applicable rate for the duration of any waiting period required by the Employer beyond thirty (30) minutes per day.
b)	An employee paid on a piece rate or incentive basis who is required to wait for work due to machine breakdown or other cause beyond the Employer’s control shall be compensated at the rate of his average hourly earnings for all such waiting time in excess of a total of twenty (20) minutes per day. Any employee who finds it necessary to wait for work, shall on each separate occasion, notify his immediate supervisor both at the beginning and at the end of such waiting period. Payment for waiting time shall cover only such time as follows such notification. The Employer may transfer such employee to another machine or job during waiting time.
c)	The total cumulative waiting time stipulated above at clauses (a) and (b) cannot exceed thirty (30) minutes per day.
5.12	In no event shall employees, in any manner, directly or indirectly, suffer a decrease in rates of pay. Thus, employees shall in no case suffer a reduction of their rates of pay for the same operation, taking into consideration however the normal modifications to piece rates, which take place following changes in the operation.
5.13
The Employer shall pay the weekly wage of each employee on Thursday of each week.
5.14	Shipping and receiving and warehouse employees shall be required to handle all goods, regardless of type or origin or destination.
5.15	The Employer shall provide an employee, upon the latter’s request with the calculation of his vacation pay or termination pay.
5.16	It is understood and agreed that an Employer can measure the work of his employees and
their productivity and can carry out time and motion studies.
ENGINEERED INCENTIVE SYSTEMS
ARTICLE 6
6.1	An Employer who wishes to convert to an engineered incentive system or who wishes to re-engineer an existing system shall give written notice to the Union three (3) months in advance indicating the system he intends to implement or re-engineer in the whole shop or a complete production unit (example: the cutting room or the pant shop or the coat shop or vest shop, etc.). An Employer who has commenced implementing an engineered incentive system prior to the signing of the present collective agreement need not give anew the notice stipulated herein for the implementation of his system or of his reengineering. Following the signing ofthe present agreement, Employers who wish to reengineer their incentive system must at the same time implement to a combination of changes within the meaning of clause 6.19 herein affecting 50% or more ofthe operations of the production unit for which notice is given. The re-engineering provided for in the present clause cannot be undertaken before the expiry of a period of eight (8) years from the date of putting into effect the first rate reviewed when the current engineered system, now to be re-engineered, was implemented.
6.2	A special committee will be immediately created by both parties to implement the change over and the engineer ofthe Union will meet with the engineer of the Employer to review the system.
6.3	The standard base rates for the industry applicable to the proposed system shall be, for the purposes ofthe present agreement, the minimum hourly rates of the Decree in force at the signing ofthe present agreement plus ten percent (10%) for a performance of 100% and in the case of the cutting room, the minimum rates of the collective agreement plus ten percent (10%)for a performance of 100%.
As each general increase provided for in Article 7 of the present agreement comes into force, these standard base rates shall be adjusted accordingly.
6.4	For the purposes of the change over to an engineered system as provided for in clauses
6.1	to 6,3 above and taking into consideration the provisions of article 6,24 as well as, where applicable, the average performance of the employee during the period defined in article 8 to determine the average hourly rate of this employee before the change to the new system, if the average hourly rate ofthe employee, as defined in article 8 before the change to the new system, is higher than the applicable base rate of the system (adjusted by the average performance of the employee, where applicable), then the differential between these two rates shall be treated as a subsidy payable in the same manner and subject to the same terms and conditions as those stipulated in clauses 6,23, 6,24, 6,25
6,5
6.6
6.7
6.8
6.9
6.10
8
and 6.26 herein; the Union and the Employer, upon the recommendation of the engineers of the Employer and of the Union, may agree on a different formula applicable to the individual case to determine the appropriate subsidy allowance.
Job descriptions and time studies shall be initialled by the engineer in charge and the shop chairperson for purposes of identification only. The Union shall have access to job descriptions and studies for purposes of reviews of rates, through a qualified engineer.
Following the expiry of the three (3) months given to the Union by the Employer in conformity with clause 6.1, the Employer shall proceed to the implementation of the new engineered incentive system or to its re-engineering and, in either case, all the rates in the unit for which the three (3) month notice was given shall be restudied without exception, under reserve of those jobs remaining on hourly rates.
A “permanent” piece work rate or standard is subject to being changed when there is a change in machinery, method of production or technology or any other element upon which the rate or standard is based. Without limiting the generality ofthe foregoing, such change shall include change in job content or volume; machine pace or cycle; procedure or method or performance; equipment, deployment or arrangement of equipment or work force.
In determining the extent to which an established piece work rate or standard should be changed pursuant to clause 6.7, only those parts of any operation which are affected directly or indirectly by a change as defined in clause 6.7 shall be re-studied, unless a complete re-study of the rate or standard is required applying normal engineering procedures. Moreover elements, standards or rates incorrectly established shall be corrected. Where applicable, a subsidy shall be defined and applied in accordance with clauses 6.23 and following herein.
It is understood and agreed that an established rate becomes permanent immediately, unless agreed to otherwise or unless it is a temporary rate for a “short run” or unless challenged by the Union or by the Employer within sixty (60) days of its implementation or unless, in the case of a change over to a specific engineered incentive system, it is challenged by the Union or the Company within the first (6) months of implementation.
A challenged rate shall be subject to re-study within thirty (30) days. Failing agreement, the matter may be referred to arbitration as provided herein.
9
6.11	A permanent piece work rate or standard can be questioned at any time if it is apparent that the standard is improperly established. In such case, a re-study shall take place only by mutual agreement between the Union and the Employer whereby the engineers shall meet and proceed with the study. Such agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld. In the event of disagreement, such matter shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance with clause 6.14 and following herein. The adjustments in wages which may result in case of loose rates shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions regarding subsidies herein (clauses 6,23 and following). In no cases, shall there be more than two (2) revisions under the present clause within a twelve (12) month period in the same section, except in the case of operations where there is a change to a new operator. The Employer shall inform the Union of the sections within the production unit concerned. There can be no more than five (5) sections per group of 100 employees.
6.12	Upon request of the Union, the Employer agrees to meet with the Union to discuss any new rates that the Employer establishes.
6.13	Where a plant applies an engineered incentive system, it is understood that both parties shall employ accepted engineered practices applicable to the case to resolve differences which may arise.
6.14	In the event that the Union cannot agree to the rate established by the Employer, the Union may proceed to arbitration by giving notice to arbitrate in accordance with the provisions of articles 32 and 33.
6.15	The Impartial Arbitrator appointed in accordance with the provisions of Article 33 must, upon request of either party, engage a qualified industrial engineer who is familiar with the men’s clothing industry and have him in attendance at the arbitration to assist the Arbitrator, unless he is himself such an engineer.
However, if the disagreement concerns only the determination of the applicable rate, the matter will be referred to a mutually agreed upon qualified industrial engineering graduate who shall determine the applicable rate, after having conducted an independent time study.
The engineer’s decision shall be final and binding on the parties. The fees and expenses of the engineer shall be shared equally by the Employer and the Union.
For the purposes of the second paragraph of the present clause, the parties agree that Mrs, Claire Abdellah shall act as designated engineer.
10
6.16	The Arbitrator’s decision is retroactive to the date of the written grievance, unless it is a new rate. In the case of a new rate, the retroactivity can be declared by the Arbitrator to be from the date of official implementation.
6.17	Temporary Transfers
An employee who is temporarily transferred for any reason shall be paid the greater of:
a)	the incentive rate of the j ob to which he is transferred; or 5) the base rate of thejob to which he is transferred.
If the temporary transfer occurs to meet a requirement of the Employer, the employee shall be guaranteed his average hourly rate.
6.18	Permanent Transfers
Permanent transfers shall be made with the consent of the Union which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. An employee who is permanently transferred shall be paid the applicable rate for the job to which he is transferred, unless agreed otherwise.
6.19	The Union recognizes the right of the Employer to introduce new machinery, changes in manufacturing techniques, technological changes or improvements in his plant.
Where an Employer contemplates such technological change affecting the level of employment or the level of wages, he shall give to the Union a reasonable written notice for the purposes of consultation on the manner in which this will be dealt with, taking into account clause 6,21.
The base rate applicable to the new machinery or new technology shall be determined in accordance with the standard base rate then in effect (clause 6.3) or, in the absence of such standard base rate, by mutual agreement, in accordance with the level of skill and effort required, with or without subsidy according to the circumstance.
The Employer shall assign the employees affected (unless they are eligible for pension or unless they accept pre-pension), according to levels of skill, productivity, adaptability, capacity to meet the normal requirements of thej ob and seniority, either to the newly introduced or changed machinery or to a substantiallyequivalent operation with the opportunity for substantially equivalent
6.20 a)
b)
6,21 a)
11
earnings. If such job assignment is not available, then the employee shall be assigned to any other available job. If no other suchjob is available or accepted, the Employer shall, under reserve of paragraph e) herein below, proceed with the termination of employment. Any retraining period shall be determined by mutual agreement but will not exceed four (4) weeks. During the re-training period, the employee shall be guaranteed:
the first week: his average hourly rate;		
the second week:	incentive earnings plus eight	percent (8%);
the third week:	incentive earnings plus six	percent (6%);
the fourth week:	incentive earnings plus four	percent (4%).
b)	Ifthe Employer proceeds with the termination of employment as stipulated herein, he shall pay the technological change indemnity provided for in clause 6.22 herein.
c)	Ifthe employee leaves the employment after having begun the new assignment or the retraining or if the employee is discharged for cause or if the employee is not entitled to the indemnity in accordance with clause 6.22 or with the present clause, the Employer shall not be required to pay the technological change indemnity.
d)	If, however, at any time within the first six (6) months after the beginning of the re-assignment or of the retraining of such employee, the Employer terminates his employment because the employee has failed to attain an adequate production level the Employer shall pay the indemnity for technological change minus any make-up pay received by the employee during the retraining period, provided such employee is entitled to such indemnity in accordance with clause 6.22 and with the present clause.
e)	If such other job assignment is not available or is not accepted and ifthe employee has five (5) years or more of seniority, the Employer, before proceeding with the termination of employment, shall try to arrive at an agreement with the Union for the permanent transfer ofthis employee to another operation by application ofthe principles stated in clause 14.3. Failing agreement between the Union and the Employer, the employee may displace the employee having the least seniority in the same section, provided he meets the normal requirements of the job. There
12
shall be no other displacement. Any transfer to another operation as stipulated herein shall occur at the rate of the new operation, without training nor subsidy. The seniority of the employee shall be transferred to the new operation. If such displacement is not available or is refused, the employee may opt for one of the two following situations:
1.	Immediately obtain the payment provided for in clause 6,22 in which case he looses his seniority rights; or
2,	Have his name inscribed on the recall list, in which case the Employer is obliged to recall him only if he must otherwise hire a new employee who is unqualified for the operation in question within the same section, at the rate of the operation. The employee may then exercise option 1 or remain on the recall list. If the employee accepts the position, he looses his right to the indemnity provided for in clause 6.22, If the employee is not recalled within the recall period stipulated in clause 14,5, he shall then receive payment of the indemnity.
6.22	TechnologicalChange Indemnity
The technological change indemnity that an Employer shall be required to pay as a result of the application of clause 6,21 above shall be determined and payable as follows:
1)	in the case of an employee who has been in his employ continuously since the last date of hiring for a period of five (5) years or more but less than ten (10) years: one (1) month’s wages (one twelfth (1/12) of the employee’s earnings of the last twelve (12) months preceding the termination);
2)	in the case of an employee who has been in his employ continuously since the last date of hiring for a period often (10) years or more: one (1) week’s wages (i.e. his average weekly earnings of the last twelve (12) months preceding the termination) for each year of service up to a maximum of twenty (20) weeks.
6.23	In the event that it is apparent that the rate being changed was improperly established, the correct rate shall be established. However, in the case of a “loose” rate, the employee shall receive a make-up subsidy to be determined and paid as defined hereunder. Notwithstanding any provisions herein, the variations of ten percent (10%) or less in the over-evaluation of a standard or rate shall not constitute a loose rate for the purpose of establishinga subsidy herein nor to the application of clause 6,11; clause 6,11 moreover,
13
shall not apply in the case of a variation of ten percent (10%) or less in the underevaluation of the standard or rate.
6.24	This subsidy shall be determined by applying to the new rate the percentage of overevaluation in the former rate or by any equitable manner determined by the Union and the Employer, upon the recommendation of the engineers of the Union and the Company, if this method is not applicable.
6.25	a) Such differential shall be paid to each regular employee in the employ of the
Employer on the date of signature of the present agreement and to any employee who, having become a regular employee after the date of signature of the present agreement, has accumulated one-year or more service in the employ of the Employer, either as an hourly subsidy on all hours worked or converted into a piece rate bonus applicable to production or as a lump sum payment agreed to between the Employer and the employee concerned.
b)	The hourly or incentive subsidy shall be reduced every three (3) months from the date of each general increase granted in accordance with Article 7 of the collective agreement by no more than one-quarter (1/4) per three (3) month period of the total amount of each applicable general increase; however, and until such time as the Employer offers to an employee a lump sum payment as hereinafter defined, he shall not be entitled to make such reductions by more than 50% of the general increase; the provisions of the present clause also apply to any decreasing subsidy existing on the date of signing of the present agreement.
[Note: See Appendix “F” concerning existing permanent subsidies]
c)	For the purpose of determining the lump sum payment stipulated in paragraph a) above, the following formula shall apply:
1)	Determine the hourly amount of the hourly or incentive subsidy in effect atthe time of the planned payment;
2)	Multiply the amount determined in subparagraph 1) by a factor sufficient to yield a net sum of two thousand two hundred dollars ($2200.00) per one dollars ($1 .00) of subsidy, after obligatory deductions at source (fiscal and others of similar nature);
14
3)	Such lump sum payment frees the Employer of any future payment of the hourly or incentive subsidy defined in paragraph 1) above.
6.26	A subsidy as defined in the preceding clauses is payable to an employee who, having become a regular employee after the signature of the present agreement, has been in the service of the Employer for one (1) year or more, or to any employee in the service of the Employer as a regular employee at the time of the signature of the present agreement, provided such employee maintains a production level at least equal to the minimum guaranteed rate after any applicable adaptation period. Moreover, such subsidy is personal and is lost permanently when the employee leaves his employ or is discharged or when his employment is otherwise terminated (including six (6) months lay-off or permanent transfer to another operation). Subsidies are not increased; when lost or reduced, they are not revived.
6.27	The present article 6 applies only to those production units which operate under an engineered incentive system whether such system was implemented before or after December 1, 193 or is being implemented at the signature of the present agreement oris put into effect during this agreement. Clauses 5,!, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.7a), 5,8 and 5.12 do not apply to production units to which article 6 applies.
ARTICLE 7	WAGES
7.1	Each employee paid on an hourly basis, including apprentices, shall receive the following increases:
a)	Commencing on June 3, 1996, an increase of $0,15 cents per hour;
5)	Commencing on September 1, 1997, an increase of $0.20 per hour.
7.2	Each piece work employee, including apprentices, shall receive the same wage increases as provided for in clause 7.1 above. The increases shall be incorporated into the existing piece work rates and, where applicable, into the base rates (Clause 6.3), for each section or operation in the usual manner.
15
7.3	The Employer shall give to each piece-work employee, as soon as available, his adjusted piece-work rates. The Employer shall furnish the Union with a copy of his calculations showing incorporation of the authorized increase.
7.4	The following minimum scales of hourly wages for employees paid on an hourly basis shall apply in the cutting department:
	June 3,	September 1,
	1996	1997
Cutters	$14.18	$14.38
Trimmers	$13.80	$14.00
Assistant Cutters and Assistant Trimmers	$11.50	$11.70
SCALE APPLICABLE TO ODD PANTS EMPLOYEES:
	June 3,	Septemberl,
	1006	1007
Markers	$13.46	$13.66
Cutters	$12.18	$12.38
Pilers	$10.24	$10.44
7.5	An apprentice assistant cutter and assistant trimmer shall not be hired for less than twenty-five cents ($0.25) above Provincial minimum rates.
7.6	Any employee in the cutting and trimming department who has not attained the scale as per clause 7.4 above, shall receive promotional wage increases as follows:
a)	In accordance with the table of apprentice wage rates stipulated in the Decree respecting the Men’s Clothing Industry;
b)	thereafter, every four (4) months - forty cents ($0.40)per hour until the employee reaches the applicable rates in 7.4.
16
ARTICLE 8	CALCULATIONS AND PAYMENTS BASED ON AVERAGE
HOURLY EARNTNGS
8.1	It is agreed that for purposes of calculating the payment of overtime premiums, legal holidays and the vacations and of applying other clauses of the present agreement stipulating the payment of an average hourly rate, the straight time average hourly earnings of all employees paid on a piece work or incentive basis shall be determined twice each year for two (2) separate periods as follows:
a)	F rom January I st through the last party period in April, to be known as the Spring Average Rate;
b)	From the first weekly pay period in July through the last pay period in October, to be known as the Fall Average Rate.
8.2	The Spring Average Rate is to be determined for each employee by dividing his actual gross piece-work or incentive earnings for the period as specified in clause 8.1 b) by the actual hours worked (regular and overtime).
8.3	The Fall Average Rate is to be determined for each employee by dividing his actual gross piece-work or incentive earnings for the period as specified in clause 8.1b) by the actual hours worked (regular and overtime) and adding thereto the amount of increase in the hourly rate due in the life of this Agreement, as per clause 7.1 and 7.2.
8.4	Gross piece-work or incentive earnings include the guaranteed basic hourly earnings, if any, but exclude overtime premium, holiday pay and vacation pay.
8.5	The Spring Average Rate is to be used in calculating payments for:
a)	The half-time premium for all overtime hours worked from June 1 st, toNovember 30th; and
b)	Four (4) legal holidays: St-John The Baptist, Dominion Day, Labour Day and Thanksgiving Day; and
c)	The summer vacation pay;
d)	All hours to be paid to an employee at this average hourly rate in accordance with the provisions of the present agreement between the 1st of June and the 30th of November inclusively.
The Fall Average Rate is to be used in calculating payment for:
8.6
17
a)	The half-time premium for all overtime hours worked from December lstto May 31 st; and
b)	Six (6) legal holidays: Christmas Day, New Year’s Day, the Day after New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday and Victoria Day;
c)	The year end vacation pay;
d)	All hours to be paid to an employee at his average hourly rate in accordance with the provisions of the present agreement between the 1 st of December and the 31 st of May inclusively.
8.7	The Spring Average Rate and the Fall Rate of hourly paid employees shall be their current
rate of pay.
WORK WEEK AND OVERTIME
A weeks’s work shall consist of thirty-nine (39) hours divided into five (5) working days, from Monday to Friday inclusive of each week, beginning each day at 8 o’clock a.m. and terminating at 5 o’clock p.m. (4o’clock p.m. on Friday) with an interval of one hour for lunch during the noon period; or the Employer by agreement with the Union may determine other regular hours of work.
Shipping and receiving:
From time to time the Employer, after discussion with the Union, may establish regular schedules of work, in accordance with his needs, including overtime hours.
9.2	Overtime shall be dispensed with as far as possible; however, all work performed outside
of the aforesaid hours shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half, provided the employee has worked the number of regular hours scheduled for the day in which the overtime occurs and provided the employee has worked the number of regular hours scheduled for the week. Exception to the preceding shall be made in cases of authorized union leave.
ARTICLE 9
9.1	a)
18
Any work performed during a Saturday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
Any work performed during one of the legal holidays stipulated in clause 13,1 shall be paid for at double the regular rate of pay of the employee.
9.3	The overtime premium for employees paid on a piece work or an incentive basis shall be calculated in the manner stipulated in Article 8,
9.4	The overtime premium for hourly paid employees shall be based on their current rate of pay.
9.5	All employees shall be granted two (2) rest periods each working day without pay deduction. These rest periods, which may be on a formal or informal basis shall take place approximately during the middle of the morning and the middle of the afternoon and shall be often (10) minutes each.
(NOTE: See Appendix “B” re: substitution of hours.)
ARTICLE 10 VACATION PERIOD
10.1	a) The summer vacation period each year shall be comprised ofthree (3) consecutive weeks. Two of these three weeks must be scheduled to coincide with the two last full weeks of July. The Employer shall advise his employees of the applicable dates at the latest on January 31 of each year.
The year end vacation is as stipulated in article 12.
b) However, vacations for shipping, receiving and warehouse employees shall be granted on a staggered basis, taking in consideration past practices of the Employer and employee seniority, if necessary.
Notwithstanding paragraph a) above and notwithstanding the provisions of Article 11 below, the employees may conclude an agreement with their Employer, following a simple majority secret ballot vote taken no later than January 31 st, to displace the third week of the annual vacation to any other agreed period during the year and defining, at the same time, the time of payment of this third week to the eligible employees. If the event of such an agreement, all the clauses of Articles 11 and 27 of the present agreement relating to payment of this third
19
week’s vacation shall apply after the necessary modifications to make such change effective.
10.2	The three (3) years of membership in the Union stipulated in the present Agreement is applicable only to the employees who worked in the industry for that period of time.
ARTICLE 11 SUMMER VACATION
11.1	Subject to clause 10.1 c), the Employer shall grant each employee at the time of summer vacation, three (3) weeks vacation. Any extended vacation time authorized by the Employer must be in writing.
11.2	Provisions applicable to employees hired before December 1,1992:
Each employee hired before December 1, 1992 shall receive vacation pay as follows:
a)	An employee who has less than twelve (12) months employment with his Employer and has less than three (3) years membership in the Union shall receive four percent (4%) of gross earnings from the date of hiring to May 31.
b)	An employee who has less than twelve (12) months employment with his Employer but has been a member in good standing of the Union for three (3) years or more shall receive six percent (6%) of gross earnings from the date of hiring to May 31.
c)	An employee who has been in the employ of the Employer for a period of one (1) year or more but has less than three (3) years membership in the Union shall receive two (2) week’spay (seventy-eight (78) times his average hourly earnings).
If, during the year ended May 31, the employee has been absent due to illness or lay-off, for more than thirteen (13) weeks, he shall be entitled to one (1) week’s pay plus two percent (2%) of his gross earnings from the previous June 1 to May 31. Absences due to illness will be calculated separately from absences due to lay-offs.
An employee who has been in the employ of the Employer for a period of one year or more and who has been a member in good standing of the Union for a period of three (3) years or more (or has worked in the plant for a period of three
20
(3) years or more) shall receive three (3) week’s pay calculated at one hundred and seventeen (117) times his average hourly earnings.
If, during the year ended May 31, the employee has been absent, due to illness or lay-off, for more than thirteen (13) weeks, he shall be entitled to one (1) week’s pay plus four percent (4%) of his gross earnings from the previous June 1 to May 31. Absences due to illness will be calculated separately from absences due to lay-offs.
11.3	Provisions applicable to employees hired after December 1, 1992:
Each employee hired after December 1, 1992 shall receive his vacation pay as follows:
a)	The employee hired after December 1, 1992 and who has been in the service of his Employer for less than three (3) years shall receive four percent (4%) of his gross earnings between June 1 of the preceding year and May 31 of the current year;
b)	The employee hired after December 1, 1992 and who has been in the service of his Employer for three (3) years or more shall receive six percent (6%) of his gross earnings between June 1 of the preceding year and May 31 of the current year.
11.4	Average hourly earnings shall mean:
For hourly-rated employees, their current hourly rate;
For all other employees, their average hourly earnings calculated in the manner stipulated in clause 8,5,
The penalty for an unauthorized extension of the vacation period shall be the loss of one-fifth (1/5) of the third (3rd) week’s vacation pay for each day of unauthorized absence, but such penalty shall not exceed the total amount of the third (3rd) week’s vacation pay.
Absence from work, for one of the reasons mentioned in clause 12,4 shall not be grounds for the penalty herein;
a)
b)
11,5
a)
21
b)	In the event that the employee is dismissed for unauthorized extension of the vacaiton period, then the penalty stipulated in the present clause shall not apply;
c)	In the event an employee fails to return to work at the end of the vacation period, he shall not lose his seniority rights if he is re-hired by the same Employer within three (3) months from the end of the vacaiton period.
11,6 The Employer shall give all vacation pay due on the pay day immediately preceding the vacaiton period. The Employer shall make arrangements when paying out the vacaiton to make applicable deductions for income tax and other similar provisions on a “prorata” weekly basis.
11.7	Providing an employee gives two (2) weeks prior notice to the Employer that he will not return to work after the vacation period, his vacation pay shall be as stipulated in clauses
11.2	and 11.3.
11.8	Should the annual vacation plan (i.e. summer and year-end vacations plan) or termination pay plan provided for in the present agreement (Articles 11 and 12 and clause 27,3b)) be modified by the provisions of the Act respecting Labour Standards or the Regulations enacted thereunder, such modifications shall be considered incorporated into the present Agreement.
ARTICLE 12 YEAR-END VACATION
12.1	The Employer shall grant to each of his employees who, on the 24th day of December, has been continuously employed by him for a period of one (1) year or more, a year-end vacation with pay. Work shall cease at the end of the working day prior to Christmas Day and shall resume on the working day following the day after New Year’s Day.
The Employer shall also grant the year-end vacaiton with pay to his regular employees, hired before December 1, 1992, who have been in the employ less than twelve (12) months but who have been, on the applicable 24th day of December, members in good standing of the Union for three (3) years or more.
Shipping, receiving and warehouse employees entitled to the year-end vacation provided for herein shall take such vacaiton on a staggered basis, taking in consideration past practices of the Employer and employee seniority, if necessary.
22
12.2	a) The Employer shall pay to each employee hired before December 1, 1992 and
who is entitled to a paid year-end vacaiton, thirty-nine (39) times his average hourly earnings as per clauses 8,6 and 8,7, However, those qualified employees who have been in the employ of the Employer for less than twelve (12) months shall be paid two percent (2%) of gross earnings from the date of employment to the applicable November 30th.
b)	The employee hired after December 1,1992 and who is entitled to a paid year-end
vacation shall receive two percent (2%) of his gross earnings between December 1 of the preceding year and November 30 of the current year.
12.3	To qualify for the year-end vacation, an employee must be at work or available for work the two (2) full scheduled working days preceding Christmas and the two (2) full scheduled working days after the day after New Year.
12.4	Absence from work during the above mentioned two (2) working day periods shall not deprive the employee of his rights to the vacation when such absence is on the day after New Year’s Day, or authorized, cr due to lay-off, illness, death in the immediate family, authorized union leave and/or anyjustifiable reason. The penalty for absences not herein specified shall be a loss of one-fifth (1/5) of the year-end vacation pay for each day of absence. The total penalty shall not exceed the total amount received by an employee. In case of absence during the year due to illness or lay-off for more than thirteen (13) weeks, the year-end vacation pay shall be calculated on the basis of two percent (2%) of gross earings from the preceding December 1 st to November 30th. Absences due to illness will be calculated separately from absences due to lay-offs.
12.5	The Employer shall give eligible employees the year-end vacation pay on the pay day immediately preceding Christmas Day.
12.6	In the event that an employee fails to return to work after the year-end vacation for the notice period required by Article 27, the Employer shall have the right to deduct from any monies due to the said employee an amount equivalent to the year-end vacation pay received by the employee.
In the event that the employee is dismissed for unauthorized extension of the vacation period, then the penalty stipulated in the present clause shall not apply.
23
In the event an employee fails to return to work at the end of the vacai ton period, he shall not lose his seniority rights, ifhe is re-hired by the same Employer within three (3)months from the end of the vacation period.
ARTICLE 13 LEGAL HOLIDAYS
13.1	The Employer shall grant to each of his employees the following ten (10) legal holidays:
-	New Year’s Day;
-	The day after New Year’s Day;
-	Good Friday;
-	Easter Sunday
-	Victoria Day;
-	St.John The Baptist Day;
-	Canada Day;
-	Labour Day;
-	Thanksgiving Day;
-	Christmas Day;
and shall give to each of his employees one day’s pay for each of the said holidays;
13.2	For the purposes of the present Article, a day’s pay shall mean the current hourly rate for hourly workers or the average hourly earnings for piece and/or incentive workers as per Article 8 multiplied by the number of regular hours scheduled for the day on which the holiday occurs as stipulated in clause 9.1 above.
13.3	All new employees shall be entitled to legal holiday with pay. However, the Employer may defer the payment for legal holidays until the employee has been in the employ of the Employer for a period of three (3) months.
13.4	To qualify for holiday pay, an employee must work or be available for work the regular working day preceding and following the holiday. This qualification does not apply to New Year’s Day.
13.5	Absence from work on the day that precedes or follows a holiday shall not deprive an employee of his rights to payment of the holiday if this absence is due to an authorized leave, lay-off, sickness, accident, maternity leave, death in the immediate family, authorizedunion leave and or any otherjustified reason.
24
13.6	In the case of absence for sickness, maternity leave, accident or lay-off, the employee must have worked one of the ten (10) scheduled days which precede or follow the holiday.
13.7	All holidays shall be paid for, irrespective of the day on which they fall.
13.8	If a holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, then the Monday following shall be considered as the legal holiday.
13.9	In the event that a legal holiday falls during the annual vacation period, then the Employer shall give to all eligible employees a day’s pay, in addition to their vacation pay.
13.10	There shall be no substitution of alternate holidays for those enumerated in clause 13.1 except by prior agreement, in writing, signed by the Employer and the Union.
13.11	The Employer shall give to eligible employees the Christmas Day, New Year’s Day and the day after New Year’s Day pay on the pay day immediately preceding Christmas Day.
The Employer shall make arrangementswhen paying out this holiday pay and the year-end vacation pay to make applicable deductions for income tax and other similar provisions on a “prorata weekly basis”.
13.12	Employees who are receiving benefits from Unemployment Insurance or payments from Workman’s Compensation shall not be entitled to paid statutory holidays.
13.13	All employees who complete all the scheduled hours of work on any General Federal Election Day or any General Provincial Election Day shall receive two (2) hour’s pay at straight time (calculated in accordance with Article 8) and, if applicable, time off for voting from the hour imposed by Law.
ARTICLE 14 EQUAL DIVISION OF WORK AND SENIORITY
14.1	It is agreed that equal division of work in each section, operation and/or department shall be observed during regular hours of work and during overtime hours of work.
14.2	During any slack season or whenever there is insufficient work, the available work shall be divided, insofar as is practicable, equally among all regular employees of the Employer, unless the Employer and the Union shall mutually agree upon a lay-off and the conditions applicable thereto.
	25
14.3	If the Employer has had to reduce regular hours of work to less than thirty-two (32) hours per week for four (4) consecutive weeks, he shall proceed to a reduction of personnel unless there is an agreement to the contrary between the Union and the Employer or unless there is agreement to apply to work sharing program. In case of layoff, the Employer and the Union shall mutually agree upon the conditions applicable thereto, using seniority in a section, operation and/or department as a basis; if the Employer, after such lay-off shall again restore its forces, those employees laid-off shall be re-employed in the order of their seniority before any new employees are hired. Practicality shall be a consideration in implementing this section.
14.4	Seniority is calculated from the date of permanent assignment of an employee (at the time or following the last date of his hiring) to a job or operation and as long this employee continues in suchjob or operation. However, an employee permanently assigned to the jobor operation he performs may invoke his last date of hiring against any other employee who has more seniority than him in suchjob or opration but who was hired after him, subject to the following conditions:
	a) If the employee has been maintaining a level of performance substantially equivalent to the average level of the group or other employees involved in this job or opration, then this earlier date of hiring shall prevail:
	5) If this employee has not been maintaining such a level of performance but has maintained a level of performance of one hundred percent (100%) or better and if this employee has been in the employ of his Employer forten (10) years or more since his last date of hiring then this employee shall be entitled. to the job or operation against any other employee hired within the last five (5) years.
14.5	If a lay-off occurs for the reasons stipulated in the present article and if such lay-off lasts for six (6) months or more, then the employee loses his seniority; however an employee with 5 years seniority or more shall lose his seniority only if the lay-off lasts for twelve months or more. A recall within the six (6) month period (or within the twelve month period, in the case of an employee with five years or more seniority) shall not constitute a “new hiring”.
14.6	The same principles applied at the time of a lay-off shall apply to any recall made in accordance with the present article.
14.7	An employee on the recall list is also entitled to be recalled by order of years of service in the employ of the Employer, to an operation other than the operation he occupied at
26
the time of lay-off, if the Employer must otherwise hire a new unqualified employee for this operation. In such case, the employee receives the rate of the new operation (without subsidy) with the necessary training and he may not subsequently reclaim his old operation.
ARTICLE 15	INSURANCE AND RETIREMENT FUNDS
15,1	Definitions:
a)	The term “employees of the Employer” as used in this Article means all the employees of the Employer who are subject to the provisions of the Decree respecting the Men’s Clothing Industry and/or to this Agreement and/or all Union members and/or all production employees, including employees during their trial period;
b)	The term “gross wages” as used in this Article means all of the wages of the employees (as defined in sub-paragraph “a” hereof) including payments for vacations and holidays and incentive bonuses;
c)	The term “trustees” as used in this Article shall include the Trustees of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Insurance Fund of the Province of Quebec and Retirement Committee of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Retirement Fund of the Province of Quebec.
15.2	This article shall supersede all prior Agreements from and after December 1, 1995; however, all sums of money paid or payable by the Employer, under any prior Agreement, to the trustees designated in one or more Agreements and Declarations of Trust which accompanied and were made part of said prior Agreement or Agreements, and which have not been expended or applied by said Trustees in accordance with the provisions of said prior Agreement or Agreements and Declarations of Trust, shall continue to vest in the said Trustees and to be applied by them for the purpose and in conformity with the provisions of the present Agreement and Agreements and Declarations of Trust now in force and any amendments or changes which may be made by the contracting parties to this Agreement or the Agreements and Declarations of Trust now in force.
15.3	Commencing with the beginning of the month of December 1995, and each month thereafter, the Employer shall pay to the Trustees (hereafter called the “Trustees”) designated under Agreement and declarations of Trust dated as ofFebruary 1, 1946 for
27
the Insurance Fund, and May 1st, 1951 forthe Retirement Fund, the terms and provisions of which Agreements and Declarations of Trust are herein specifically incorporated by reference, the following percentages of gross salaries payable for each pay period to all employees of the Employer:
a) (i) As of December 1, 1995: Three and one half percent (3.5%) for the Retirement Fund and three percent (3%) for the Insurance Fund. However, members in good standing of the Associated Clothing Manufacturers of the Province of Quebec, the Montreal Clothing Contractors Association Inc., the Quebec Council of Odd Pants Employers and the Canadian Trimmings Manufacturers Association and/or any other allied association of the clothing industry shall be entitled to reduce their payment into the Insurance Fund to two and a half percent (2.5%);
(ii) As of January 1,1996: Three percent (3%) forthe RetirementFund and three percent (3%) for the Insurance Fund.
The Retirement Fund and the Insurance Fund are established for the respective members and employees of the parties to the present collective agreement.
Any Employer who is not a member in good standing of one of the Employer Associations who are a party to the present agreement but whose employees are represented by the Union, must participate in both Funds and must apply to the Trustees to be accepted or to continue to participate in both Funds. Such application shall expressly stipulate that such Employer agrees to pay monthly in addition to the applicable premiums stipulated herein, an additional 0.25% to be remitted by the Trustees to the Associated Clothing Manufacturers of the Province of Quebec acting on behalf of all the Employer Associations who are a party to the present agreement.
In the case of Employers who are not part of the Men's and Boys' industry and are not subject to the Decree relating to the Men's and Boys' Industry, they may apply to continue or to be accepted into either Fund or both, provided that they agree in writing to pay monthly, in addition to the applicable premiums stipulated herein, the addition 0.25% stipulated above to the Trustees for remittance to the Association Clothing Manufacturers of the Province of Quebec. Such application shall be submitted when their collective
	28 agreement with the Union is renewed or comes into effect. The present paragraph also applies to the Employers of the jeans industry.
	The monthly payment by all such Employers of the applicable premiums and of the additional percentage as stipulated above is an essential condition to such Employers participating in and maintaining such participation in each of the Funds in which the Trustees have accepted them.
	An Employer who thereafter becomes a member in good standing of any of the aforesaid Employer Associations shall no longer be required to pay the additional percentage stipulated above for such time as he remains a member in good standing.
	Any Employer who fails to pay the applicable premiums or the applicable additional percentage or who fails to remain a member in good standing of any of the Employer Associations herein, shall lose his right to participate in both Funds and the Trustee shall advise in writing such Employer of such suspension.
	Any Employer who has been suspended from a Fund shall be entitled to re-instatement by the Trustees provided such Employer pays all arrears in premiums and additional percentage.
b)	Each Employer undertakes and binds himself to pay his contributions to the present Plan monthly by remitting same to the Trustees forthwith, at the latest on the last day of the following month. Each Employer agrees that from the moment such funds are due and payable to the Trustees hereunder, he shall thereby become fixed with a trust respecting such Funds, which he shall segregate and hold as Trustee for the Fund until same are paid to the Fund;
c)	The failure by any Employer to comply with the specific trust hereby fixed upon him shall not affect the nature of such funds as being Trust Funds or the quantum due, nor the responsibility of the Employer, his servants, agents, successors or assignees to pay the said sum, which are at all times deemed to be Trust Funds, by first priority to the Fund;
d)	The bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or winding-up of any Employer holding such Trust Funds, which are deemed at all times to be duly segregated and to be
29
the property ofthe Fund, shall vest in the Trustees of the Fund the right to be fully reimbursed by first priority;
e) In the event that an audit of an Employer establishes any amount owing by such Employer to the Trust Fund, the right to claim such amount shall be deemed to commence from the time the audit took place, providing that no more than fifteen (15) months have elapsed since the previous audit.
15.4	All of the foregoing sums shall be administered and expended by the Trustees pursuant to the provisions of such said Agreements and Declarations of Trust as amended both for the Insurance Fund and the Retirement Fund, and as may be further amended by the Agreement of the parties, for the purpose ofprovidingbenefits upon their retirement, and life, accident and health insurance and such other forms of group insurance for medical care and hospitalization and such other benefits as the trustees may reasonably determine to employees employed by the Employer, and employees employed by other Employers, including local unions affiliated with the Montreal Joint Board, Union ofNeedletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees (QFL-CLC) and employees ofthe Insurance Fund and the Retirement Fund, and also employees of the Montreal Joint Board and its affiliated locals, forwhom contributions are made to the Amalgamated Clothing WorkersInsurance Fund of the Province of Quebec, and the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Retirement Fund ofthe Province of Quebec, in the amounts set forth in clause 15,3, all of whom are members ofthe group embraced within the general plan in the Men’s and Boys, Clothing and Allied industries, and also to provide medical care and hospitalization for the families of such employees.
15.5	The Trustees shall have the right and power to construe and apply the provisions of the Insurance Plan and/or the Retirement Plan adopted by them and the terms used therein, and any construction and/or decision made or adopted by the Trustees in good faith shall be final and binding on the Employer, the Union, the employees ofthe Employer and their dependents.
15.6	The Employer shall furnish to the Trustees, upon request, such information and reports as the Trustees may require in the performance of their duties under any of the Agreements and Declarations of Trust. The Trustees, or any authorized agent or representative of the Trustees, shall have the right at all reasonable times during business hours to enter upon the premises of the Employer and to examine and copy such of the books, records, papers and reports of the Employer as may be necessary to permit the Trustees to determine whether the Employer is fully complying with the provisions of clause 15,3.
30
15.7	No employee or member of his family shall have the option to receive instead of the benefits provided for by any of the Agreements and Declarations of Trust any part of the contribution of the Employer. No employee or member of his family shall have the right to assign any benefits to which he may be or become entitled under any of the Agreements and Declarations of Trust or to receive a cash consideration in lieu of such benefits either upon termination of the trust herein created, or through severance of employment or otherwise.
15.8	During the term of this Agreement, the union obligates itself to enter into no contract of agreement whereby any Employer engaged in the Men’s and Boys’ Clothing and Allied Industries will not be obligated to pay the amount required to be paid to the Trustees, as set forth in clause 15,3 hereof. During the term of this Agreement, the Union agrees to insert a clause in all of its Collective Bargaining Agreements with Employers engaged in the Men’s and Boys Clothing and Allied Industries to the effect that the Employer shall pay to the Trustees under the Agreements and Declarations of Trust, as amended, the sums set forth in clause 15,3 hereof (as the same may from time to time be modified according to the terms hereof) to be applied under the Agreements and Declarations of must, as amended. This paragraph may be waived as to one cr more Employers by an instrument in writing executed by the Trustees of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Retirement Fund of the Province of Quebec and/or the trustees of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Insurance F und of the Province of Quebec, but the said waiver shall not be of a part only of the Insurance contribution and/or of the Retirement contribution.
15.9	a) This Collective Bargaining Agreement and the Agreements and Declarations of
Trust shall be construed as a single document, and all of the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement relating to the administration and enforcement thereof (including provisions for arbitration) shall apply to the administration and enforcement of this Article;
5) In the event that an Employer shall fail to pay to the Trustees any sum due to the said Trustees, under clause 15,3, and said default shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days, any Trustees designated by the Trustees for that purpose may give written notice of said default to the Union, and the Union shall then give written notice of said default to the Employer by registered mail, and if within five (5) days of the receipt of said notice from the Union, the Employer fails to pay the said arrears in full to the Trustees, the Union may direct its members to discontinue work in the plant of the Employer and to discontinue work upon clothing manufactured for the Employer by Contractors until all sums due from the Employer under clause 15,3 above have been paid in full. The remedy
31
provided for in this sub-paragraph shall be in addition to all other remedies available to the Union and the Trustees and may be exercised by the Union, anything in the Collective Bargaining Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Ic)	The Trustees, in their own names as Trustees, or the Union, may institute or
intervene in any proceedings at law, or in bankruptcy, for the purpose of effectuating the collection of any suns due to them from the Employer under the provisions of clause 15.3;
d) Any cause of action arising from a right or claim for payment of a sum of money under the present Agreement, or any Agreement incorporated therein, shall commence on the day of which a written demand is made upon the debtor or party in default, by or on behalf of the claimant.
e) Without prejudice to the other recourses provided for herein, the Trustees may advise the administrator of the Insurance Fund to suspend insurance benefits and payments to the employees of any employer who is in default for a period of sixty (60) days or more of paying the contributions stipulated herein. The administrator will advise the Employer and the employees concerned accordingly and suspend all benefits and payments.
15.10	The provisions of this Article shall remain in full force and effect for the full term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and of any extension or renewals thereof.
15.11	The primary purpose of this Article and the said Agreements and Declarations ofTrust being to provide a practical plan for benefits upon their retirement, and life, accident and health insurance, and other benefits for employees and their families, it is understood that the form of the plan, ofthis Article and of the Agreements and Declarations ofTrust, shall not give rise to a literal or formal interpretation or construction; such interpretation or construction shall be placed on this Article, and the Agreements and Declarations ofTrust as will assist in the functioning of the plan, for the benefit of the employees, and their families, regardless of form.
15.12	In no event will be the Employer be entitled to the return of any part of any contribution made hereunder.
15.13	The Employer and the Union hereby agree that the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Insurance Fund of the Province of Quebec shall pay monthly one-twelfth (1/12) of all assessment income received by the Insurance Fund to the Montreal Joint Board, Union
32
ofNeedletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees (QFL-CLC) as compensation for the following, among other purposes:
a)	Rental, cost of maintenance andjanitorial services of the premises occupied by the Insurance and Retirement Fund in the Amalgamated Centre;
b)	Administrative and advisory services rendered to the Insurance Fund;
c)	To provide and maintain social services and educational programs for the members of the Union;
Active participation and contribution to a find for a public relations program, in conjunction with the Associated Clothing Manufacturers of the Province of Quebec, Inc, for the promotion of the industry.
15.14	The Employer further agrees that if, at any time, the Insurance Funds is in a deficit position, due to the payment as stipulated in clause 15,13, he will pay, upon the written notification by the Trustees, an additional one-quarter percent (1/4%) to the Trustees of the Insurance Fund for such period of time as the Trustees deem necessary to restore the said Fund to a non-deficit position.
ARTICLE 16 HOMEWORK
16,1	All home work of any kind is prohibited. Every Employer binds himself that under no circumstances will any work or production be given to home workers, either directly or indirectly.
ARTICLE 17 NON-DTSCRTMTNATTON
17.1	It is the continuing policy of the Employer and the Union that the provisions of this Agreement shall be applied to all employees or applicants for employment without regard to race, colour, sex, religious creed, national origin or language.
ARTICLE 18 CONTRACTORS
33
18.1	NO Employer who operates an inside shop shall send out to a Contractor work of a grade similar to that which he is manufacturing in his own shop, unless the workers in his shop are employed full time.
18.2	When an Employer wishes to send work to a Contractor, the Union shall be consulted and a Union Contractor mutually agreed upon.
18.3	Manufacturers who do not have inside shops shall contract out work only to Union contract shops, Such manufacturers are specifically prohibited from contracting outwork to Manufacturers with inside shops. In the event of a violation of this clause, the Manufacturer shall be subject to the penalty provided in Article 19.4.
ARTICLE 19 CONTRACTORS OR MANUFACTURERS
19.1	To better secure the employment and due remuneration of employees engaged by Union contractors, the Union and the Employers agree that a list will be drawn up by the Union containing the names of all Union contractors, herein referred to as “registered Contractors”, to whom work is or will be sent by the Employers during the life of this Agreement.
19.2	During the life of this Agreement, each Employer shall designate one registered coat contractor, one registered pants contractor, and one registered vest contractor for each grade, to whom each such Employer shall send all his contracting work with respect to the coats, pants and/or vest of such Employer, as the case may be.
19.3	The Employer shall not have the right, directly or indirectly, to send any of the aforesaid products to any other than the registered contractor designated as aforesaid. Nor shall a Contractor make work for any company for which he is not registered without the consent of the Union. In the event of a violation of this clause, the Contractor shall be subject to the penalty provided in clause 19.4.
19.4	In the event ofviolation of the conditions herein provided by any Employer, it is agreed that such Employer shall pay to the Union for distribution among the aggrieved Union employees, a sum equal to one-half (1/2) of the registered contractor’s charge per garment, multiplied by the total number of garments involved, as liquidated damages stipulated in advance.
34
19.5	The Employer may, for good cause, request a change of contractor and shall be entitled to change his contractor ifthe contractor does not maintain quality and production during a period in excess of fifteen (15) working days.
19.6	Every Employer who sends work to a contractor must furnish the Union with faithful and true reports in writing of all work cut and forwarded to the registered contractor.
19.7	Each Employer and each registered contractor shall give to the other three (3) months’ prior notice in writing, a true copy whereof shall be given to the Union, in any of the following cases:
a)	Change in type of garments	manufactured;
b)	Opening an inside shop;
c)	Change of supplier.
19.8	In special cases, where a registered contractor cannot be supplied with sufficient work by Union Employers, such contractors shall be entitled to manufacture for non-Union Employers, but only under the condition that the work of Union Employers shall be given first preference.
ARTICLE 20 CANVAS AND SHOUT .PER PADS
20,1	All canvas fronts, shoulder pads and sleevehead pads used by the Employer shall be made
in Union shops and the Union stamp on the canvas fronts and on the pads’ container shall be prima facie evidence that the same was made in a Union shop.
ARTICLE 21 UNION LABEL
21,1	The Employer agrees to affix copies of the label of the Montreal Joint Board, Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees (QFL-CLC) to men’s clothing, including, without limitation, single pants manufactured by the Employer or by the Union contractors on behalf of the Employer, all as provided herein.
	35
21.2	The Union grants the Employer a non-exclusive and non-assignable license to affix copies ofthe labels, supplied by the Union, to men’s clothing manufactured by the Employer or for the Employer of the said collective bargaining agreement.
21.3	The Employer shall affix copies of the labels to all garments as follows:
	a) A copy of the suit or garment label to every coat forming a part of a suit and to every sport coat, odd coat, top coat and overcoat, and;
	b) A copy of the trouser label to every paid of single pants (but not to pants forming a part of a suit) manufactured by the Employer or for the Employer by contractors.
21.4	The Employer shall cause all copies of labels supplied by the Union to be sewed to the garments to which they are affixed by machine (and not by hand) during the process of construction. The Employer shall not deliver any copied of the label or permit them to be delivered to any retailer or other person except as part of the garments to which they have been affixed in the factory of the Employer or the Employer’s contractors.
21.5	The Union shall supply the Employer with copies of labels in such quantities as the production of the Employer requires.
21.6	Promptly upon receipt of bills therefore from the Union, the Employer shall pay the Union for copies of suit or garment labels delivered to the Employer at $10.00 per thousand, trouser labels at $6,00 per thousand, and special order labels at $12.50 per thousand.
21.7	The Employer shall not copy the labels, cause them to be copied, or obtain copies thereof except farm the Union pursuant to the provision of this Agreement.
21.8	The provisions of this paragraph shall automatically terminate, without notice from the Union, and the right ofthe Employer to use the labels shall immediately cease in the event that:
	a) The existing Collective Bargaining Agreement between the parties terminates by lapse of time or otherwise and is not extended or renewed, with or without modifications, or
36
b) The Union determines that the Employer has violated any of the terms or conditions of employment provided in the aforesaid Collective Bargaining Agreement.
21.9	In the event of the termination of this license, the Employer shall forthwith deliver to the Union all copies of labels then in the Employer’s possession or control.
21.10	The exclusive right to institute legal proceedings for any unauthorized use of the labels shall remain in the Union, but the Union shall not be liable to the Employer for any failure to institute such proceedings.
ARTICLE 22
CHECK OFF
22.1	a) An irrevocable authorization, from every employee, for the weekly deduction of Union dues from their salaries shall be submitted to the Employer. These deductions shall be remitted, once a month, to the Union.
b)	It is agreed that the Employer shall deduct, every week, from the pay of every employee covered by this collective agreement, a sum equivalent to the Union dues and shall remit the sums so deducted, every month, by cheque, to the Montreal Joint Board, Union ofNeedletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees (QFL-CLC).
c)	The Union shall hold harmless and indemnify the Employer of any claim of any nature whatsoever resulting from deduction made by the Employer pursuant to the provisions of the present article.
b)	The Employer shall send to the Union with the above mentioned remittances a list
ofthe employees, their social insurance numbers, the amounts deducted for each of them, and any new address or telephone number. Codes submitted by the Union shall identify the reason for the non-deduction of Union dues. All information shall be kept confidential.
22.2	In the event that employees withing to contribute to the QFL Solidarity Fund, sign proper
written authorizations for the Employer to deduct such contributionsat source, the Union and the Employer concerned shall consider if arrangements can be made for such deduction at source, in accordance with the terms of the letter of agreement annexed thereto a appendix A.
RIGHT OF DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
37
ARTICLE 23
23.1	Full power of discharge and discipline lies with the Employer. It is agreed that this power shall be exercised withjustice and with regard for the reasonable rights of the employee. The power of discharge shall be exercised only through a fully authorized and responsible representative of the Management. If the Union, after investigation, finds that an employee has been discharged or disciplined withoutj ust cause, and that it cannot reach an agreement with the representative of the Management, it may bring the case before the Impartial Chairman.
23.2	Except as set out in this agreement, all rights and prerogatives of Management are retained by the Employer and remain within the rights of the Employer and its Management. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Employer’s rights include:
a)	The right to operate and manage the enterprise in any manner in order to satisfy its commitments and responsibilities; the right to determine the location of operations and their commencement, expansion, curtailment or discontinuance; to select, hire, control and direct the working force; to schedule operations and production, or to determine the work to be done, the number of shifts, the methods, processes and means of production and job content requirements; to establish quality and quantity standards; to use improved or changed methods, machinery and equipment; to decide on the number of employees needed to determine the number of hours to be worked, starting and quitting times and whether there shall be overtime work; to establish a piece work, incentive or a bonus plan or other method of payment and its application to employees and operations;
b)	The right to maintain order, discipline and efficiency; to work, alter and enforce reasonable rules and regulations, policies and practices to be followed by the employees;
c)	The right to determine reasonable safety, health and protection measures and to enforce the use of the same:
d)	The jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery, equipment shall be vested exclusively in the Employer.
STRIKE OR LOCKOUT
38
ARTICLE 24
24.1	The Union hereby undertakes that it shall not, directly or indirectly, cause any cessation of, or interference with production in the factories of the members ofthe Association, and the Association and its member Employers shall not engage in any lockout, and all differences between the parties hereto shall be settled in accordance with the methods herein provided.
24.2	The parties agree, in keeping with the spirit of collective bargaining, that any strikes, slowdown, stoppage, lockout, walkout, or the calling out ofworkers for a meeting during working hours, and/or concerted cancellation of overtime, which in any way interferes with or interrupts production in said establishments is prohibited, and is a vital violation of this Agreement.
24.3	This Article shall not apply where the Union causes its members to discontinue work for the purpose of enforcing the provisions under clause 15,3 as provided for in clause 15,9b),
ARTICLE 25 ABSENCES
25.1	Whenever an employee shall absent himself from work without a valid reason to the Employer, upon the third (rd) working day of his absence, the Employer may consider his position forfeited. In case of absence, a reason therefore must be promptly given to the foreman by messenger, mail or telephone. Failure to give notice, however shall be waived whenever an employee is incapable of doing so. No employee having reported for work shall leave during the day without consent of the foreman.
25.2	A regular employee who is absent on account of accident or sickness shall, on his return to work, be reinstated in his former position provided that the period of such absence
a)	does not exceed twelve (12) months in the case of an employee with five (5) or more years of employment in the Employer’s shop;
b)	does not exceed nine (9) months, in the case of an employee hired before December 1, 1992 and having one (1) year or more of employment in the shop or three (3) years or more as member of the Union, or in the case of an employee hired after December 1, 1992 and having three (3) years or more of employment in the shop; or
39
c)	does not exceed six (6) months, in the case of an employee hired before December
1, 1992 and having less than one (I) year of employment in the shop or less than three (3) years as member of the Union or in the case of an employee hired after December 1,1992 and having less than three (3) years of employment in the shop;
and that the Employer has been given five (5) day's notice as to the date when such employee shall resume his work.
An employee injured on the job needing immediate attention by a Doctor will be transported by the Employer to the nearest Doctor or Hospital and transported back to work, if in the same day, by the Employer; such employee shall be reinstated in his former position, provided that the period of his absence was reasonable in the circumstance.
25.3	Maternity leave shall be granted in accordance with the provisions of the Act respecting Labour Standards and Regulations thereunder. Thus, in accordance with current provisions, an employee who has completed twenty (20) weeks of employment for the same Employer within the twelve (12) months preceding her notice and who is in the employ ofthe Employer on the day preceding such notice, shall be entitled to a maternity leave of eighteen (18) weeks divided at the discretion ofthe employee, under reserve of the exceptions stipulated in the Act and the Regulations. Upon timely request, a prolongation up to a total of six (6) weeks will be granted to her, if there are complications. It is expressly agreed that the employee shall be required to meet all the requirements of the legislation in force at the time that she invokes the application of the present clause.
25.4	For humanitarian reasons, an employee may be entitled to a leave of absence ofreasonable duration. Such leave of absence shall be arranged by agreement between the Employer and the Union. The employee shall be reinstated in his former position, without loss of seniority, provided he returns within the agreed upon date.
25.5	If the wedding of an employee takes place on a work day, he shall be entitled to a leave of absence for that day without loss of pay and to an additional consecutive week without pay, by giving to his Employer reasonable notice thereof in writing.
25.6	An employee may be absent from work for five (5) days at the birth of his child or the adoption of a child. The first two (2) days of absence shall be remunerated if the employee is credited with sixty (60) days of uninterrupted service.
40
This leave may be divided into days at the request of the employee. It may not be taken more than fifteen (15) days after the child arrives at the residence of his father or mother.
The employee must advise his employer of his absence as soon as possible.
However, an employee who adopts the child of his spouse may be absent from work for only two days, without pay.
BEREAVEMENT
In the event of the death of the spouse, mother, father, child, brother or sister of a regular employee, he shall be entitled to one (1) day’s leave on the day of the funeral, with pay, provided that his absence coincides with a regular scheduled working day.
In the event of the death of the spouse, mother, father, child, brother or sister of an employee with one year’s service or more in the employ of the Employer, he shall be entitled to three (3) consecutive days leave (including the day of the funeral), with pay, provided that his absence coincides with regular scheduled working days.
26.2	In the event of the death of the grand-parent of an employee or the mother or the father of the spouse of an employee, he shall be entitled to one(l) day’s leave with pay, on the day of the funeral, provided that his absence coincides with a regular scheduled working day and provided he has one year’s service or more in the employ of the Employer.
26.3	The pay for such leave shall be calculated on the same basis as holiday pay as per Article 13.
26.4	At the request of the Employer the employee shall produce proof of death of the person involved.
26.5	If an employee with one year’s service or more in the employ of the Employer learns of the death of his spouse, mother, father, child, brother or sister as stipulated in Article 26.1 para, b) only after the day ofthe funeral because the death occurred outside the continent of North America, the employee shall be entitled to a leave of absence of three (3) consecutive work days with pay for bereavement provided he produces, within three (3) months following the death, satisfactory proof thereof. The same principles apply in the
ARTICLE 26 26.1 a)
b)
41
case of the death of a grand-parent, mother-in-law or father-in-law for one scheduled work-day with pay.
26.6
For the purposes of the present article, “spouse” of an employee means:
j)	A person to whom the employee is legally married;
jj)	A person to whom the employee is not legally married but has resided with the
employee for at least one (1) year and who is publicly represented as the spouse of the employee. The employee must register his spouse with the Employer at least one year before the event.
ARTICLE 27
SEPARATIONFROM EMPLOYMENT
27.1	An employee who leaves the service ofthe Employer must give the Employer at least five (5) working days’ notice. The Union agrees to give its full co-operation so that its members may comply with this regulation.
27.2	If the Employer terminates the employment of an employee (and unless it is a discharge for cause) he shall give to the employee notice in accordance with the Act respecting Labour Standards.
27.3	An employee who is separated from his job shall receive all wages due him plus termination pay, in lieu of vacation pay, as follows:
a)	If the employee has been hired before December 1, 1992, four percent (4%) of gross earnings since the previous June 1st, if the employee has less than three (3) years’ membership in the Union;
b)	IF the employee has been hired before December 1, 1992, six percent (6%) of gross earnings since the previous June 1st, if the employee has three (3) years or more membership in the Union. However, if the employee is dismissed for cause or if he leaves the service of the Employer without giving five (4) work days’ notice, he shall receive only four percent (4%) of his gross earnings.
c)	Ifthe employee has been hired after December 1,1992, four percent (4%)of his gross earnings since the previous June 1st, if he has less than three (3) years of employment in the shop.
42
d)	If the employee has been hired after December I, 1992, six percent (6%) of his
gross earnings since the previous June 1st, if he has three (3) years or more of employment in the shop; however, if the employee is dismissed for cause or if he leaves the services of the Employer without giving five (5) days notice, he shall receive only four percent (4%) of his gross earnings.
27.4	An employee who is separated from his job, shall receive, except as stipulated in the following paragraph, an additional two per cent (2%) of his gross earnings from December 1 of the preceding year in lieu of year end vacation pay provided he has qualified for such year end vacation in accordance with clause 12.1,
However, if the employee is dismissed for cause or if he leaves the service of the Employer without giving five (5) working days’ notice, the maximum quittance pay this employee is entitled to is stipulated in paragraph b) of clause 27.3.
27.5	#en a lay-off occurs for an indeterminate period of time, and the Employer applies clauses 27.2, 27.3 and 27.4, any employee subsequently recalled before the expiry of the six (6) month period (or of a twelve (12) months period, in the case of an employee with 5 years seniority or more) shall receive, for the vacations following his return, the payments to which he is entitled less any amounts received by him pursuant to the application of clauses 27.3 and 27,4 herein.
ARTICLE 28	PLANT REMOVAL
28.1	During the term of this Agreement, an Employer may enlarge or move his plant or plants provided his relationship with the Union is maintained.
28.2	Should an Employer plan to remove his present plant or plants from the city or cities in which such plant or plants are located, three (3) month’s notice in writing by registered mail must be given to the Union.
ARTICLE 29	APPRENTICE TRAINING
29.2	It is agreed that the Employer shall have the privilege of developing workers through the apprenticeship system, on a basis to be determined by the representatives of the Association and the Union.
EXTENSION OF COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
43
ARTICLE 30
30.1	The parties hereto shall use their best efforts to have incorporated into the Decree respecting the Men’s Clothing Industry by way of amendment, agreements so arrived at between themselves, so as to be binding on the Men’s and Boys’ Clothing Industry as a whole.
ARTICLE 31 PARITY OF ADVANTAGES
31.1	It is agreed that the Union shall not make any arrangements with any clothing manufacturer in the Province of Quebec or Ontario on more advantageous terms than those granted to the Association.
31.2	The Union shall submit to the Association drafts of all Agreements, and copies of all existing and future Agreements shall be filed vith. the Association.
31.3	The Union agrees that during the life of this Agreement and the period of time during negotiations for the extension and renewal of this Agreement, no contract will be made separately with any one member of the Association.
ARTICLE 32 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
32.1	In the event of any dispute or condition arising out of any matter in a shop affecting an Employer or employee, the parties shall proceed in the following manner: the Employer or employee shall place the matter complained of before the Shop Chairperson, who shall endeavour to adjust the dispute. In the event of their not being able to arrive at an agreement, the Shop Chairperson shall refer the matter in dispute to the representative of the Union for the department concerned who, in turn, with a representative of the Employer, shall endeavour to effect a settlement ofthe dispute, In the event ofthe parties not reaching an agreement, the whole matter in dispute shall be placed before the Impartial Chairman who shall render a decision which will remedy the dispute or condition, and the said decision shall be final, conclusive and binding on the parties.
32.2	In order that the presentation and adjustment of these grievances shall cause as little confusion as possible, it is hereby agreed that the time for presenting grievances to the Shop Chairperson and by him to the representative of the Employer and for the
44
adjustment of these grievances, shall be after the regular working hours. Exception is made, however, in such emergency cases as require immediate attention.
32,3	In cases of urgency, the aggrieved party shall have the right to demand an immediate hearing before the Impartial Chairman on giving four (4) hours’ notice.
32,4 a)	Grievances shall be in writing and shall be presented by the Shop Chairperson to the foreman or other representative designated for this purpose by the Employer within fifteen (15) calendar days of the event giving rise to the grievance. The foreman or representative designated by the Employer shall give his answer in writing within the fifteen (15) days following receipt of the grievance;
b)	If there is no agreement at this first step, then the business agent of the Union shall have twenty (20) calendar days, from the date of the answer at the first step or from the date of the expiry of the delay to give such answer, if no answer has been given, to meet the plant manager or any other person designated for this purpose by the Employer, and attempt to resolve the grievance;
c)	If there is no agreement within these twenty (20) days, the Union shall have ten (10) calendar days to request arbitration by notice in writing;
d)	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be rendered within thirty (30) calendar days after the end of the hearing and ofthe arguments ofthe parties (verbal or written);
e)	All delays and steps stipulated above are imperative, in default of which the grievance is forfeited. The parties may however by agreement in writing prolong any delay. All the delays stipulated in the above clauses shall automatically be suspended during the summer vacation period as well as during the year end vacation period.
ARTICLE 33	ARBITRATION
33,1	Recognizing the necessity and the desire of both parties to be guided by the spirit of collective bargaining, that all controversies and conflicts be settled in an amicable and expeditious manner without harm to either party by way of loss of production, wages, or otherwise, the parties agree that all grievances and controversies which cannot be adjusted by mutual consent shall be submitted to an Impartial Chairman.
45
33.2	For that purpose and for that of preserving order in the industry, it is agreed that Mr. Raymond Leboeuf shall act as such Impartial Chairman for the term of this agreement, and that his appointment can only be terminated by the consent in writing of both parties to this agreement.
It is further understood that Mr. Jean-Pierre Lussier shall act as substitute to Mr, Leboeuf should ever it be impossible for Mr. Leboeuf to act within a timely delay.
33.3	It is agreed that all decisions, awards and penalties imposed by the Impartial Chairman shall be final, conclusive and binding on the parties.
33.4	Both parties shall jointly and equally share the costs of the arbitrator.
33.5	The Impartial Chairman shall have the right to impose such penally as he may in his discretion see fit for the violation of any of the terms of this Agreement.
33.6	In the event of either party refusing to agree to participate in an arbitration, the Impartial Chairman shall hear the dispute in the absence of the defaulting party and shall render his decision ex-parte. Such decision shall be final and binding upon the defaulting party and of the same force and effect as if the defaulting party were present. In the event of such defaulting party refusing to abide by the terms of the decision, such party shall ipso facto and de plein droit be deprived of all rights and benefits under the present Agreement.
ARTICLE 34	LEGAL REPRESENTATION
34.1	The Union may institute or intervene in any proceeding at law and/or bankruptcy, on behalf of all employees, for the purposes of effecting the collection of any sums payable to the employees of the Employer under the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 35	SEPARABILITY
35.1	Should any part of this Agreement be rendered or declared illegal by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, or by the decision of any authorized Government agency, such invalidation of such part of provision shall not invalidate the remainder thereof. In such event, the parties agree to negotiate substitute provisions.
RECORDS
46
ARTICLE 36
36.1	The Employer agreesthat such representatives as the Union may designate shall have fill access to all payroll and production records of the Employer available at the Joint Committee of the Men’s Clothing Parity Committee and to copy same.
36.2	The Employer further agrees that the Men’s Clothing Parity Committee shall submit copies of all payroll and production records of the Employer to the Trustees of the AmalgamatedClothing Workers InsuranceFund and the Amalgamated ClothingWorkers Retirement Fund, for the purpose ofdeterminingwhether the Employer is complying with the provisions of Article 15,
ARTICLE 37 GENERAL
37,1	In accordance with the spirit of this Agreement both parties pledge themselves to cooperate in making the arrangements successful, and to use their influence and efforts for the promotion and development ofgoodwill, it being understood that this Agreement shall not operate in any way as to restrict output, impede processes of manufacture or management, but shall encourage maximum production and minimum cost and fair and equitable treatment to any individual concerned in it.
ARTICLE 38 TERM OF AGREEMENT
38.1	The tom of this agreement shall commence of the 1st of December 1995 and shall terminate of November 30, 1998.
38.2	Should eitherof the parties request the renewal of this Agreement, modificationsto same or negotiation of a new Agreement to take effect at expiration onNovember 30th, 1998, notice in writing by registered mail shall be given to the other party ninety (90) days before the date of expiry of this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this 21 s t day of December 1995,
THE ASSOCIATED CLOTHING MANUFACTURERS OF THE PROVINCE
OF QUEBEC, INC.
THE MONTREAL JOINT BOARD, UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES (QFL-CLC)
MONTREAL CLOTHING CONTRACTORS
47
ASSOCIATION INC.
THE QUEBEC COUNCIL OF ODD PANTS EMPLOYERS
RAINWEAR & SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
THE CANADIAN TRIMMINGS MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
APPENDIX “A”
RE:	Deductionsat source of “Fonds de Solidarite (FTQ) savings
The parties agree as follows:
48
10	THE EMPLOYER AGREES TO COOPERATE WITH THE UNION TO ALLOW
EMPLOYEES WHO WISH TO SUBSCRIBE TO THE “FONDS DE SOLIDARITY DES TRAVAILLEURS DU QU6BEC” TO DO SO BY WAY OF SAVINGS ON THEIR WAGES.
2°	Regardless of the number of employees who make the request, the Employer agrees to
deduct at source from the pay of each employee who so wishes and who has signed the subscription form, the amount stipulated by the employee for the term defined by the employee or until notice by the employee to the contrary.
3”	An employee may, at any time, modify his contribution into the Fund or cease the
subscriptionby giving written notice to this effectto the “Fonds de Solidarite” and to the Employer.
4°	The Employer agrees to forward by cheque to the “Fonds de Solidarite” eachmonth (at
the latest on the 15th day of the month following the deduction) the sums deducted in accordance with clause 2 above. This remittance will be forwarded with a statement listing the name, the social security number and the reference number (provided by the “Fonds de Solidarite”) of each employee and the amount deducted for each of them.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City of Montreal,
and caused their signature to be affixed this 21st day of December 1995,
THE ASSOCIATED CLOTHING	THE MONTREAL JOINT BOARD,
MANUFACTURERS OF THE PROVINCE	UNION OF NEEDLETRADES,
OF QUEBEC, INC.	INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE
EMPLOYEES (QFL-CLC
MONTREAL CLOTHING CONTRACTORS
ASSOCIATION INC.
THE QUEBEC COUNCIL OF ODD PANTS EMPLOYERS
49
RAINWEAR & SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
THE CANADIAN TRIMMINGS
MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
50
APPENDIX “B”
Letter of Agreement concerning substitution of hours
The parties to the annexed Collective Agreement agree to the following:
At the request of the majority of the employees of a shop, the Employer, by mutual agreement,may grant to the employees additional days off on agreed upon dates in exchange for eight (8) hours, worked outside regular hours at straight time, per additional day off so agreed upon; the pay accumulated by each employee for the hours so worked shall be paid to the employee with the weekly pay of the week in which he takes the holiday.
IN WITNESSWHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City of Montreal, and causes their signature to be affixed this 21 st day of December 1995,
THE ASSOCIATED CLOTHING	THE MONTREAL JOINT BOARD,
MANUFACTURERS OF THE PROVINCE	UNION OF
NEEDLETRADES,
OF QUEBEC, INC.	INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE
EMPLOYEES (QFL-CLC)
MONTREAL CLOTHING CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION INC.
THE QUEBEC COUNCIL OF ODD PANTS EMPLOYERS
51
RAINWEAR & SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
THE CANADIAN TRIMMINGS
MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
52
APPENDIX “C”
Letter of Agreement concerning the Trust Agreement provided in Article 15
The parties to the annexed Collective Agreement agree to the following:
Without limiting or otherwiseaffectingthe terms of the Trust Agreement provided for in Article 15 of the Collective Agreement, the parties agree that the Trustees have the right and the power at any time during the term of the said Collective Agreement to define and modify the terms of eligibilityto all insurancebenefits or any part thereof, and to apply them accordingly”.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City of Montreal, and caused their signature to be affixed this 21st day of December 1995.
THE ASSOCIATED CLOTHING	THE MONTREAL JOINT BOARD,
MANUFACTURERS OF THE PROVINCE	UNION OF
NEEDLETRADES,
OF QUEBEC, INC.	INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE
EMPLOYEES (QFL-CLC)
MONTREAL CLOTHING CONTRACTORS
53
ASSOCIATION INC,
THE QUEBEC COUNCIL OF ODD PANTS EMPLOYERS
RAINWEAR & SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
THE CANADIAN TRIMMINGS MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
54
APPENDIX "D"
Letter of Agreement reiterating certain provisions ofthe Letter of Agreement of January 18, 1984 as follows:
1 -	Concerning clause 1.1 ofthe Collective Agreement the words “Sales employees” include
client service employees and the words “Office employees” include the shipping and receiving clerks who do clerical work.
2-	“Bonafide” students hired as warehouse shipping and receiving employees between the months of May and September shall not be required to become members of the Union.
3-	Articles 17 and 18 ofthe collective agreement (concerning contractors) apply only to production employees. It isunderstood however that no Employer shall have the shipping and receiving work done outside without a valid reason.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this 21st day of December 1995.
55
THE ASSOCIATED CLOTHING	THE MONTREAL JOINT BOARD,
MANUFACTURERS OF THE PROVINCE	UNION OF
NEEDLETRADES,
OF QUEBEC, INC.	INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE
EMPLOYEES (QFL-CLC)
MONTREAL CLOTHING CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION INC.
THE QUEBEC COUNCIL OF ODD PANTS EMPLOYERS
RAINWEAR & SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
THE CANADIAN TRIMMINGS MANUFACTURERSASSOCIATION
APPENDIX “E”
LETTER OF AGREEMENT CONCERNING CLAUSE 6.25B):
Notwithstandingclause6.25b) of the Collective Agreement, in the case of employ eeswho by special agreement with the Employer receive non-diminishing subsidies(so-called “permanent subsidies”), the Employerswho have granted these subsidiesagree to maintain them in force in accordancewith
56
the terms of their particular agreements but only for those employees who are receiving such subsidies on the date of signing the present agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this 21st day of December 1995,
THE ASSOCIATED CLOTHING	THE MONTREAL JOINT BOARD,
MANUFACTURERS OF THE PROVINCE	UNION OF
NEEDLETRADES,
OF QUEBEC, INC.	INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE
EMPLOYEES (QFL-CLC)
MONTREAL CLOTHING CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION INC.
THE QUEBEC COUNCIL OF ODD PANTS EMPLOYERS
RAINWEAR & SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
THE CANADIAN TRIMMINGS MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
LETTER OF AGREEMENT CONCERNING THE APPLICATION OF CLAUSE 6,1
57
The parties hereby acknowledge that the three (3) Employers who have given the three (3) month re-engineering notice oftheir existing system, in conformity with clause 6,1 of the preceding collective agreement, and who have started implementation of this reengineering before the signing of the present agreement by proceeding to a new study of all their rates shall be able to continue and to complete their re-engineering without contestation of their right to restudy all rates within the production unit for which notice was given.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this 21 st day of December 1995.
THE ASSOCIATED CLOTHING MANUFACTURERS OF THE PROVINCE
OF QUEBEC, INC.
THE MONTREAL JOINT BOARD, UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES (QFL-CLC)
MONTREAL CLOTHING CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION INC.
THE QUEBEC COUNCIL OF ODD PANTS EMPLOYERS
RAINWEAR & SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
THE CANADIAN TRIMMINGS MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
LETTER OF AGREEMENT ON LITERACY:
58
1.	The parties acknowledge that literacy skills can contributeto employee participation in
the workplace and in the broader community and that upgraded literacy skills are in the interest of all concerned,
2.	Whenever an agreement is concluded with the Employer, the parties agree to work in good faith to improve literacy skills among employees and therefore:
-	Involvement in literacyprograms will be encouragedby the parties, but employee participation in such programs shall be voluntary unless otherwise agreed upon.
-	Any literacy program introduced in the workplace shall respect the dignity and privacy of employees. No employee shall be penalized for a lack of or perceived lack of literacy skills.
3.	Any Employer's participation in the establishment of a literacy program for employees by direct financial contribution or contribution of resources, time, premises or other, shall be deemed to constitute training expenses for the purposes of the Act to foster the development of manpower training (Bill 90).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executedthese presents at the City of Montreal, and cause their signatureto be affixed this 21 st day ofDecember 1995,
THE ASSOCIATED CLOTHING	THE MONTREAL JOINT BOARD,
MANUFACTURERS OF THE PROVINCE	UNION OF
NEEDLETRADES,
OF QUEBEC, INC.	INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE
EMPLOYEES (QFL-CLC)
MONTREAL CLOTHING CONTRACTORS
ASSOCIATION INC.
THE QUEBEC COUNCIL OF ODD PANTS EMPLOYERS
59
RAINWEAR & SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
THE CANADIAN TRIMMINGS MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
60
LETTEROF AGREEMENT CONCERNINGTHE APPLICATIONOF CLAUSES 11.2,11.3 AND 27.3:
Following the modifications ofthe reference period in clauses 11,2,11,3 and27.3 ofthe collective agreement, the parties hereby agree that the reference year ending May 31, 1996 shall be comprised of eleven (11) months only.
More specifically,as vacationhas already been paid on the eamingsfor the month of June 1995 andnotwithstanding the terms of the contract, the 1996 summervacations shall be paid and calculated on earning s from the period of July 1, 1995 to May 31, 1996, Such shall also be the case in the application of clause 27.3,
The 1997 summervacations as well as all subsequentyears shall be paid and calculated as determined by clauses 11,2 and 11,3.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this 21st day of December 1995.
THE ASSOCIATED CLOTHING	THE MONTREAL JOINT BOARD,
MANUFACTURERS OF THE PROVINCE	UNION OF
NEEDLETRADES,
OF QUEBEC, INC.	INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE
EMPLOYEES (QFL-CLC)
MONTREAL CLOTHING CONTRACTORS
61
ASSOCIATION INC.
THE QUEBEC COUNCIL OF ODD PANTS EMPLOYERS
RAINWEAR & SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
THE CANADIAN TRIMMINGS MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
62
LETTER OF AGREEMENT CONCERNING CLAUSE 15.3:
The parties agree that notwithstanding clause 15.3 of the collective agreement, the monthly contributions to the Retirement Fund for Employers engaged in the Men’s and Boys Clothings Industry (excludingjeans) shall be modified as follows for the period of June 1, 1996 to May 31, 1998.
a)	The monthly contributions of Employers as defined herein-above who have been members in good standing of the Retirement Fund and who have contributed to the Retirement Fund for the full thirty-six (36) month period between December 1, 1992 and November 30, 1995 shall be reduced to 1.5%.
b)	The monthly contributions of Employers as defined herein-above who were members of the plan as of December 1,1995 but who have not contributed to the Retirement Fund for the full thirty-six (36) month period between December 1,
63
1992 and November 30, 1995 shall only be reduced by half of the amount stipulated in paragraph a) above.
c)	The monthly contributions of Employers as defined ,herein-above who become membersoftheRetirementFundafterDecemberl, 1995 shall not be reduced and such contribution shall be as set out in clause 15.3,
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this 21 st day of December 1995.
THE ASSOCIATED CLOTHING	THE MONTREAL JOINT BOARD,
MANUFACTURERS OF THE PROVINCE	UNION OF
NEEDLETRADES,
OF QUEBEC, INC.	INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE
EMPLOYEES (QFL-CLC)
MONTREAL CLOTHING CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION INC.
THE QUEBEC COUNCIL OF ODD PANTS EMPLOYERS
RAINWEAR & SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
THE CANADIAN TRIMMINGS MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION