TABLE
PAGE
PAYROLL	DUES
LABEL	
FACTORY REGULATIONS
MEDICAL
HEALTH AND WELFARE	AND RET I
SENIORI I	I
OF WORK AND	SHIFT DIFFERENTIALS
OVERTiME	a
STANDARDS AND GENERAL FOR PIECE WORKERS AND TIME
PIECE RATES
OF FE	RATE I
OF OTHER VACANCIES, HOLIDAYS VACATIONS	ASSIGNMENT TO
I I I LEAVE OF ABSENCE
LAY-OFF AND RECALL
00904 (05)
ENTERED INTO IN	CITY
IN THE PROVINCE OF BRITISH	THIS
OF NOVEMBER,
BETWEEN:
AND
I
VANCOUVER
INC.
WHEREAS
DAY
PARTIES
HEREBY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE 4 - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
4.01	The Employer shall deduct all Union dues assessments and initiation fees, which are supported by a signed authorisation and shall transmit such deduction to the Union, together with a list of Employees for whom the deduction was made on or before the 25th day of said month
4.02	In the case of ne*v employees, the deductiorus') referred to in the above Article 4.01 shall be made from payroll immediately following thirty (30) days of employment.
4.03	The Employer shall give the Union a list, of employees hired, terminated and on layoff, monthly.
4.04 It. is understood and agreed that the Union will ^ provided'the Employer each month with a list of new
employees from whom deductions are to be made. Said list is to be in the hands of the Employer not. later than the day on which the pay period ends and from which pay period dues are to be deducted.
4.05	Upon notification by the Union, the Employer will deduct arrears on the basis of a maximum of two (2) months' arrears payment, per month.
ARTICLE 5	- UNION PAYROLL
5.01	At. least once a year, the Employer shall furnish to the Union, a copy of his detailed payrolls for the designated weeks, which will contain workers' name, their occupations, hours worked at straight time and at. overtime rates, and
<wages paid at. straight-time and at. overtime rates.
5.02	It. is further agreed that any information relating to individual or group earnings will be given to the Union upon request..
ARTICLE 6	- UNION LABEL
S.01	The Employer shall incorporate a union label -into every garment with the exception of work being processed for •Jantzen, U.S.A.,and certain other customer orders which the Company indicates to the Union as being inappropriate for inclusion of the union label.
The label shall generally be in the form of a small logo printed on the "Material Specification Label". If separate union labels are required, the Union shall supply them.
The union shall have the right to check garments to ensure that the provisions of this article are observed.
Union label contribution: $500.00 annually paid at year end ARTICLE 7	- FACTORY REGULATIONS
7,01	All Employees shall abide by the standing factory regulations which shall be approved by the Union.
ARTICLE S - BRITISH COLUMBIA MEDICAL PLAN
8.01	The Parties hereto agree that the medical plan
instituted for all Union Members of three	months
employment shall continue as heretofore. The cost shall be equally divided between the.Employer and the Employee.
3.02	M.S.A. Extended Health Benefits Plan will be available separate from basic B.C. Medical coverage, where an employee desires this as single person status only.
ARTICLE 3	- HEALTH AND WELFARE AND RETIREMENT FUNDS
3.01	The Health and Welfare Fund previously established by the Union and the employer(s) shall be continued in accordance with the Rules and Regulations AS AMENDED August. 1, 1331, governing the Fund, wherein a BOARD OF TRUSTEES has been provided for, and the Union has been designated as the TRUSTEES of the FUND, with one <1> ADDITIONAL TRUSTEE who is selected at ARM'S LENGTH.
(i> The FUND name is designated as!
"WESTERN CANADIAN REGION I.L.G.W.U. CONSOLIDATED HEALTH AND WELFARE FUND"
3.02	The Retirement Fund previously established by the Union and the Employer<s'.> shall be continued in accordance with the Amended Deed of Trust, dated September 20, 1392 in compliance with the Pension Act. of the Province of Manitoba and in accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the Fund wherein a BOARD OF TRUSTEES has been provided for, and the Union has been designated as the TRUSTEES OF THE FUND, with one <1> ADDITIONAL TRUSTEE who is selected at ARM'S LENGTH.
(i> The FUND is designated as:
"WESTERN CANADIAN REGION I.L.G.W.U. CONSOLIDATED RETIREMENT FUND"
A
9.03	The Employer agrees to contribute to the Said funds the following amounts which shall be paid to the Health and Welfare and Retirement Funds based on the total of the Union members in its’ employ.
Effective first of month following signing of Agreement.: HEALTH AND WELFARE FUND 0.25) one point two five percent RETIREMENT FUND	<3.75) three point seven five %
< 5.00% > f i ve p*er c ent For Health & Welfare Fund;
Geptc-mba r—E-;—T 399--i ncregtae—O-.-OOit—
■September—F-j—1994----ine-roooe—TO DC-NEGOTIATED
3.04. Total Gross weekly payroll shall include each Union Employee's total Gross earning in each pay period including overtime premium, shiTt premium, Holiday pay and Vacation pay.
3.05	All Fund contributions to be paid in respect of the Health and Welfare and the Retirement Funds, are to be paid into the Fund (Union) Office, not later than the fifteenth <15th) calendar day of the month immediately following that for which they are held.
3.05	The Employer shall provided with the yearly .Tinancial statements of the Tunds, copies of the TRUST AGREEMENT and RULES & REGULATIONS governing the Funds, and Acturarial reports as prepared.
3.07	Auditors assigned by the Union shall have the right to check payroll record of the Bargaining Unit employees to determine that full payment has been made by the employer to the Funds.
3.08	The Employer acknowledges that, the Trustees of the Retirement Fund are required by the Pension Act oT Manitoba to report delinquent, payments due to the Tund to the Superintendent of Pensions of the Pension Commission oT Manitoba, in accordance with Chapter P-32 of the "PENSION BENEFITS ACT'.
ARTICLE 10	- SENIORITY AND BRIDGING
10.01	Seniority is defined a5 the length, of unbroken service i n the bargaining unit.. Service shall not be considered to be broken when an Employee is on an approved Leave of Absence as defined in Article 21
Employees on lay-off will retain seniority for <S> six months if they have Cl) one year service or less, and employees with more than Cl) one year service will retain seniority for (12) twelve months.
10.02	In the application .of seniority, in the case of lay-offs and promotion, it shall be determined, first by Department and second by Plant, competency considered.
10.03	- BRIDGING: Individuals who are re-hired after no more than a (10) year break in employment shall, after (3) three years of unbroken service, be credited with his/her previous service. His/her seniority shall then be the total of the time worked previously and the time worked since the date of re-hire.
10.04- An employee transferring from a bargaining unit, job to a non-bargaining unit job will retain seniority in his/her previous position for up to (6) six months providing he/she continues to pay Union dues during this period.
ARTICLE It - HOURS OF WORK AND SHIFT DIFFERENTIALS
11.01	A weeks work shall consist, of 37-1/2 hours within 5 working days of 7-1/2 hours each day, Monday to Friday inclusive.
11.02	The following shall be the schedule of working hours and the coffee breaks.
DAY SHIFT	Start 7:45 A.M.
Lunch 3/,4 hour as posted on list. Finish 4 :00 P . M . -=7
One 10 minute coffee break in the morning plus one 10 minute coffee break in the afternoon as per posted list.
AFTERNOON SHIFT
Start		4:00
Cof f ee	Break	6:00
Supper		3: oo
Cof f ee	Break	10:00
F i n i sh		12: oo
P.	M.	
P	.M.	- 6:10 P.M.
P.	.M.	- 3 : 30 P . M .
P	.M.	- 10:10 P.M
A.	. M.	(midnight)
MIDNIGHT SHIFT
Start
Coffee Break' Meal
Coffee Break F in ish
12:00 A.M. 2:00 A.M. 4:00 A.M. 6:00 A.M. 7:45 A.M.
2110 A.M. 4:15 A.M. 6:10 A.M.
— & —
11.03	A SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL for Time and.Piece Workers shall be paid as follows: For those employed on afternoon shift, twenty ( $0.20) cents per hour; for those employed on midnight shift, eighty <$<5,805 cents per hour.
Employees on the payroll a5 of August 31, 1388, shall be red circled at. the afternoon shift differential of forty <$0.4-05 cents per hour .
11.04	SECURITY RESPONSIBILITY DIFFERENTIAL. The Employer shall pay a premium of $0.1'0/hour in addition to wage5 and shift, differential earned to afternoon or midnight shift employees who have been specifically designated to assume the shift, security responsibilities.
11.05	MINIMUM EARNINGS GUARANTEE; Employees who have not received advance notice of the cancellation of their shift, who report for work but are sent home without commencing work, shall receive two <25 hours' straight time pay at their average rate.
11.05	The Employer shall pay employees commencing work and as set. out in this Agreement, for the entire period spent at their place of work, with a minimum in any one day, of four <45 hours' average rate. The exception to the above shall be in cases of accident., breakdown, interruption of power, or acts of God, in which case the minimum shall be two <25 hours pay; calculated a5 in 11.05.
ARTICLE 12	- OVERTIME
12.01	Whenever overtime is requested, notice of such requirement shall be given to the employee involved at least four <45 hours in advance with the exception of unpredictable overtime requirements which arise too late in the shift to allow four <45 hours advance notice.
12.02	No worker shall be dismissed for refusing to work overtime.
12.03	No overtime shall be worked or permitted when a general Jantzsn shop or general Local meeting is held at the end of the day shift. The Employer must be notifi-ed by noon on the day previous that such meeting is to be held.
12.04	Overtime shell 1 be paid for at time and one-half or double time as provided in accordance with the following:
i 5 TIME WORKERS
Total pay =
<Hourly rate x regular hours) plus <Hourly rate x overtime hours x 1-1/2 or 25
- 7 -
Ca.'i The above calculations are to be made each quarter as of the payroll ending closest to September 1, December 1, March 1 and June 1.
<b) For purpose of payment of average hourly time, the latest calculated quarterly average shall be used.
< c 1 When increases are given during the term of this Agreement, a like increase shall be added to the previous quarterly average to compensate for the contract increase.
<d> Quarterly averages and the guaranteed hourly rate shall be issued to each individual quarterly.
13.03	The Union shall be provided with a list of the averages quarterly a5 provided for in Article 13.02 above.
13.04. Crafts and apprentice mini mums as set. out. in The Appendix and attached hereto are an integral part of this Agreement.
13.05	Each Employees' incentive earnings shall be computed
and credited daily.
13.06	- TRAINING - Piece workers who are designated to train another employee, shall be paid no less than average as defined in Article 13.02.
A DTT f1' r- •» 4	_ r~, r r~ /~-r~	r~, /syrr-
nntii-LC i 4	— r i etc r,M I ho
14.01	All price standards shall be posted not later than three (3) working days after timing.
14.02	All time studies shall be taken withirr two <21 working days of the time a request slip for same is complete, unless otherwise agreed.
14.03	If a piece work time rate is increased, the increased
rate shall apply from the date the request slip was submitted, unless time study cannot be taken in two <21 days as provided in 14.02 above.	’
14.04	At all times, .all piece work time rates shal-1 be readily accessible to the Shop Chairperson and the Shop Committee.
14.05	The Shop Chairperson shall be provided with a-copy of all piece work time rate slips given to any piece work employee.
3
14.06	Piece rates should be set to yield an average operator working under average conditions 25% above base rate. The potential yield is achieved by using a rating system where the 25% incentive is included in the piece rates as expressed in standard allowed minutes (S.A.M.).
Sect.
Potential Yit Sept. 1/34
Sept. 1/95
Sewing Si Press	10.204
Hand Operators	1 0. .204
Cutter Learner,	11.511
.Improver	
Cutter 11	11.511
Band Knife	12.485
Cutter	
Special. Cutter	13.041
Category	
Machine Spreader	14.535
Cutter Category 1	15.75
1334 Sf
II	II
II	II
Note: This is not a wage scale
14.07	Any decrease of piece rates will not take place until the parties have met and in any event not until the next upcoming season unless there is a change in method of production, equipment, materials or other conditions which significantly reduce the time required to perform the same operation.
4.08	SAMPLES
All piece workers on first, samples, pilot garments, size tryouts, and sample sets shall be paid on the basis of their average earnings as defined in Article 13.02.
14.03	SMALL PRODUCTION BUNDLES
In the event that regular production bundles contain four or less garments, there shall be additional payment of twenty-five (251 percent added to the established piecework price.	•
14.10	WORK QUALITY
No incentive rate shall be paid for the time taken to corract- substandard Work which is a result of that employee's error. However, the daily guarantee procedure shall apply.
This will be renegotiated in September 1334.
- 10 -
14.11	FIRST TRY BUNDLES
An additional payment of ten (10) percent will be added to the established- piecework price of First Try Bundles.
ARTICLE 15	-- ADJUSTMENT OF PIECE RATE GRIEVANCES
15.01	When a question arises over a piece work time rate or standard, the individual shall complete a time study request slip. If the individual considers the reply to be unsatisfactory, it, shall be dealt, with as followsl-
Step 1 - Within five (5) working days of receiving the
reply, the individual shall inform the designated Shop Committee member who shall meet, as soon as possible with the designated Company Representstive(s) to at.tempt to resolve the dispute. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached, the matter shall be referred to Step 2.
Step 2 - The designated Shop Committee member shall, within fifteen (15.) working days of the completion of Step 1, reduce the complaint to writing on forms provided by the Union and inform the Union Representative that a grievance exists. The Union Representative, Shop Chairperson or the designated Shop Committee member and the affected individual, or if a group of affected individuals, a representative of that group, shall meet with the designated Company Representative^) to attempt to resolve the dispute. If the matter cannot, be settled in the Step 2 procedure, or within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the Step 2 meeting, it may then be referred to the Standing Arbitrator, whose decision shall be binding on both parties.
IS.02	As a prerequisite, the arbitrator chosen for a piecework arbitration shall be knowledgeable of piecework systems and shall have a successful record of administering piecework programs.
15.04	The arbitrator's charges and accomodation costs shall be equally shared by the parties.
1 I
ARTICLE IS	DIVISION OF WORK, ASSIGNMENT TO OTHER WORK
1S.0I	The available work shall be distributed as equally as possible among those workers employed in a department or section (department or section as that department or section to which the worker is normally assigned) This does not interfere with the employer's right to layoff during period of work shortage.
1S. 02 Where i t becomes necessary to send out- work which is normally done by members of the bargaining unit the Union shall be advised.
16.03	No member of the employer or supervisory employee or designate or any other person outside the bargaining unit shall perform any work on any job covered by this Agreement except in cases of emergency, instruction and preparation of samples.
16.04	The Employer shall designate specific skills as the •regular work for each piece worker.
16.05	Regular work shall be those skills to which the piece 'workers are normally assigned. This may include more than one (1) skill.
16.06	Piece workers who are assigned or are requested to perform other than their regular work while their regular work is available shall be paid for such other work on the basis of their average earnings as defined in Article 13.02 or the piece work earnings from the new work, whichever is greater.
16.07	Piece workers who are assigned or are requested to perform other than their regular work while their regular work is unavailable, shall receive for time spent on such other work, their piece work average, or the piece work earnings from the new work, whichever is greater, for three working days. Their earnings from their regular work shall be kept separate and apar t.
16.03	When a special machine operator is required to work on a Special Machine that he/she has never worked on before, the operator will he paid average earnings as defined in Article 13.02 or piece work earnings, which ever is greater for three working days.
ARTICLE 17	- VACANCIES, JOB POSTINGS
17.01	C a ) The Employer shall post- for two (2) working days all vacancies New operations will be posted for five (5) working days.
( b 5 Present. Employees shall have priority by seniority in bidding for such vacancies.
( c > The successful candidate has to-demonstrate the ability to perform the new operation to the satisfaction of the company and if not satisfactory, may be transferred to the previous job.
For present categor/'es, an employee may request, to be transferred when a vacancy occurs.
The Employer shall consider the request, based on its production requi rements, a5 well as the skills and qualifications of the Emp1oyee.
( c > If the Employer consents to the transfer, the Employee terminates his seniority in the prev ious category
17.03	The Employer shall provide the Union Office with a copy of each job posting.
ARTICLE IS - HOLIDAYS
18.01	The following Holidays shall be observed and all Employees covered by this Agreement, whether time or piece workers, shall be paid a full day's pay for them in any event and regardless of whether such Holidays fall on a working day or non—working day of the week or any non-working week.
New Years Day Good Friday Easter Monday Canada Day
British Columbia Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day
Chris t-mas Eve Christmas. Day Boxing Day Victoria Day
Any Statutory holiday proclaimed by the Federal or Provincial Government shall be added to the above list-
18.02	No work shall be permitted or done on any of the above hoiidays.
18.03	The Employees shall be paid the equivalent of one t; 1 ) day's pay (not including overtime, but. including shift differential when applicable:) for each of the above holidays based on the average daily earnings as defined in Article 13.02.
ARTICLE 79
ANNUAL VACATIONS
.01 For each twelve (72) month period ending July 31: each Employee shall he entitled to a vacation period as outlined below:-
13.03	For one Cl) year service or more, employees shall receive two (2) weeks vacation and vacation pay equivalent to 4% of gross earnings.
13.04	After four C4) years of service, employees shall receive three (3) weeks vacation and vacation pay equivalent to 6% of gross earnings.
13.05	After ten CIO) years of service, employees shall receive four C4> week5 vacation and vacation pay equivalent to 8% of gross earnings.
19.06	After twenty (20) years of service, employees shall receive five (5) weeks vacation and vacation pay equivalent to 1054 of gross earnings.
13.07	Vacation piay is calculated on earnings for complete pay periods between July 1 of one year, and June 30 of the next year.
13.08	Employees shall continue senior it-y < ‘ for the purpose of vacation, from year to year provided their service is considered to be continuous as defined in Article 10
(Seniority and Bridging).
113.03	The plant shall normally shut, down for a vacation
period to be taken by all Employees covered by this Agreement. When it. is decided that a shut-down is nut. practical, the company shall advise the committee by February 28 of that year and shall meet with the committee to discuss the vacation arrangement for that year.
13.10 Employees with three (3) or more weeks of vacation entitlement will be granted the balance of their entitlement at. a mutually agreeable time. Every effort will be made to grant this portion of the vacation at. the time applied for. However, the decision will be predicated by production requirements and the numbers away in the particular department at. the time requested. Where a conflict in dates arises, departmental seniority in the operation shall apply,
- 15 -
19. ?l Cnee every three (3years employees with four (4J
years or more of service shall be entitled to receive their vacation entitlement in full for one un i n te r r up ted peri od.
Those wishing to avail themselves of this arrangement-must apply in advance giving dates required by March 31st- of the year in which the vacation is planned, or sixty <60) days in advance, whichever is earlier. Every effort will be made to approve the application for the dates requested, but approval will be predicated on the criteria outlined in 13.13.
13.12	Vacation in advance of Entitlement
Employees who wish to take a proportion of their next-years vacation entitlement may schedule a vacation date between January 1st and July 31st in accordance with the following provisions.
-,-he employees vacation entitlement, for the current vacation year - August- 1st- to July 31st- - has tern
taken in full.
The time off and vacation pay taken shall be deducted from the following years entitlement.
The request must be in writing and submitted a minimum of four weeks in advance of the commencement date of the vacation.
4.	Sufficient vacation pay must- be accumulated to provide vacation pay for the requested time off.
5.	Only one such request may be made each year.
6.	A competent replacement must be available for the time requested.
The vacation pay will be added to the regular pay cheque issued on the pay day immediately preceding this vacation.
13.13	The Employer shall circulate a vacation calendar
between February 23 and March 3] of each.year. All. Employees who have vacation entitlement in excess ot
the factory shutdown period for that year may apply for vacation in accordance with their seniority. The vacation calendar shall indicate the number of Employees who can be spared from each department, at. any one time and employees shall write their names in the blanks on the calendar when it is their turn.
I 6
Those Employees who do nut. enter their vacation request, on this calendar by March 31st will be assigned vacation dates by the Personnel Department in conjunction with the Employee's supervisor. The start of the assigned vacation shall be no less than two weeks after the date of notification of the assigned vacation dates.
ARTICLE 20 COMPENSIBLE INJURIES
(s) Employees injured on the job will be provided
transportation by the Company to and from a doctor's office, or a hospital and, if the injury is serious, will be accompanied by a qualified person with first-aid training, if available. If the doctor determines that the Employee is unable to return to work, the company must be informed.
<b:> An Employee injured an the job will maintain the wages he would have earned for seven and one half C7 1/21 hours had he/she not been injured, provided he/she has been sent home or to a doctor by his/her supervisor.
ARTICLE 21	OF ABSENCE
21.01 PERSONAL LEAVE
A leave of absence for personal reasons may be granted without pay for a period up to three C3) months, dependent upon production requirements and providing this request is made in avdvance in writing. In the case of leaves of one (1 week or more a copy of the request will be forwarded to the Union.
1.02	ILLNESS LEAVE
I a :i Employees who are absent, clue to injury or illness
shall retain seniority for up to twelve <121 months. Upon return, the employee may be required to present a Doctor's certificate covering the illness and shall be reinstated in the Employee’s previous position or a comparable position.
( b ') Time spent, on illness leave shall not tie counted as time worked for qualification for the next, increment-level. Piece rate workers shall be credited with their average rate of pay at. the time of illness or injury until a new average has been earned.
- 17 -
21.03	UNION LEAVE
A leave of absence without pay shall be granted to a maximum of two (2) years for transaction or performance of business for the Union, if prior agreement is obtained from the employer in writing. There will normally be a maximum of one Employee per department up to a maximum of three (3) Employees at any one time. The maximum of one (1l Employee may be extended to two (2) in the case of elected Convention Delegates.
21.04	MATERNITY LEAVE
Upon written request, an Employee will be granted up to eighteen (18) weeks' leave of absence without pay in accordance with the following:
(a) The leave shall commence eleven (11) weeks in advance of the estimated date of birth, or at a later date in accordance with the Employee's written request, and shall continue for no less than seven (7) weeks after the date of birth.
Cb) Subject to 21.04(d), an Employee may elect to commence maternity leave later than the stipulated eleven (11) weeks in advance. In such cases, the Employee shall be entitled to the full eighteen (18) weeks, commencing on the date the leave of absence starts.
(c) An Employee may return to work at an earlier date than the stipulated seven C7) weeks after the date of the birth, providing the Employee applies in writing at least one (1) week prior to the intended date of return, and providing she presents a certificate from a qualified Medical Practitioner that she is able to resume work.
Cd) The Employer may require an Employee to commence a leave of absence under 21.04(a) where the duties of the employee cannot reasonable be performed because of the pregnancy and to continue the leave of absence until the Employee provides a certificate from a Medical Practitioner stating that she is able to perform her duties or until the expiration of the stipulated eighteen (18) weeks.
(e) Where an Employee who has been granted leave of absence under this section is, for reasons related to the birth or the termination of the pregnancy as certified by a Medical Practitioner, unable to work or return to work after expiration of the leave, the employer shall grant to the Employee further leaves of absence from work, without pay for a period specified In one or more certificates, but not exceeding a total of six (6) consecutive weeks.
Cf) Where an Employee gives birth or the pregnancy is terminated before a request for leave is made, the Employer shall, on the Employee’s request and on receipt of a certificate of a Medical Practitioner stating that the Employee has given birth or the pregnancy was terminated on a specified date, grant the Employee leave of absence from work, wi tho.ut - pay, for a period of six (.&'} consecutive weeks, or a shorter period the Employee requests, commencing on the specified date.
(g) If an Employee, after receiving the full maternity leave and, if appropriate, the extension provided for in 21.04-C d), is still unable to return for work because of illness, she may obtain leave in accordance with 21.02.
t'h') If the Employee is unable to return as a result of domestic problems related to the pregnancy, she may apply for personal leave as outlined in Article 21.01.
(i> The Employee shall continue to participate in the benefit, plans during the period of maternity leave.
When the Employee returns from maternity leave, the Employer shall compute the earnings based upon her guaranteed rate which she would have received had she not been on leave, and shall forward to the Union the appropriate percentage deduction from these earnings to cover the cost of the Health and Welfare and Retirement Benef i ts.
C jOn return from maternity leave, an Employee shall be reinstated in the job which she previously occupied or in a job in the same level and pay.
21.05	ADOPTION LEAVE
a.	Employees who have completed one (1) year service with the Company shall be granted up to six C6> weeks leave of absence without pay, for the purpose of adopting a child under five years of age.
b.	Employees wishing to obtain adoption leave must advise the Employer .in writing at the time they apply for adoption They should subsequently advise the employer as far in advance as possible of the commencement date of the leave.
c.	Adoption leave can be scheduled to commence no earlier than the date of the adopition and no later than two (21 weeks following that date.
13
d.	If an Employee is unable to return to work as a result of domestic problems related to.the adoption, she may apply for personal leave as outlined in Article 21.01.
21.06	PATERNITY LEAVE
Paternity leave shall be granted, without pay, for up to a maximum of six <65 weeks. Employees wishing to obtain Paternity leave must advise the Employer in writing in advance.
21.07	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
(a.'i Upon the request of the Employee, up> to three (3) days with pay will be granted by the Employer immediately following the death of an Employee's spouse, child, father, mother, f ather-in-l&wi, mother-in-law, si "ter in 1 »rsr-bre-tfoeF—t-n 1-a-w-r j&ffqJj
<fcO Upon the request of the pay will be granted by the
<c) No compensation will be working day.
Employee, up to one (1J| day with Employer immediately following brother, sister .	I—}-r-
paid for time off that is not a
Cd> "Spouse" shall include persons of the opposite sex who have co-habited for two or more years.
1 .08 -JURY DUTY LEAVE
Employees covered by this Agreement who are called upon for Jury Duty or service of a like nature shall receive their piecework average, or for time workers, hourly rate of pay, provided hours during the normal working period not spent on such duty are spent on the job, and by surrendering duty pay received.
21.09	EDUCATION LEAVE
Education leave for E.S.L.(English as a second language) will be granted without loss of seniority to employees providing'the Company has been advised that the employee has applied for t-he course.
ARTICLE 22	- LAY-OFF AND RECALL
2ji.01 In the event- of a lay-off of two (2) weeks duration or less, the Employees affected will be determined by department seniority and competency.
- 20 -
22.02	In the event, of a lay-off of more than two (2') weeks duration, the Employees affected will he determined by plant-seniority and competency.
22.03	In the event- of a lay-off of more than two <2> weeks duration, the" Employees who will be affected who have more than one < 1 ') year service shall be given one <1? week notice of lay-off or pay in lieu of such notice. The advance notice or payment in lieu of notice shall not apply to force majeure - major power or mechanical failure, fire, flood, or other similar occurences beyond the control of the Company.
22.04	When a lay-off of more than two <2!> weeks duration is required, the Employer shall discuss the details with the Union as far in advance of the lay-off date a5 possible.
22.05	Employees laid-off shall be recalled before any new Employees are hired providing they are qualified to do the available work. They shall be entitled to at least one day's notice of recall.
22.05	In the event that- an Employee obtains work elsewhere while on lay-off they shall not forfeit their recall rights
22.07	In the event, that an Employee is laid-off they shall be given an approximate date cif recall.
22.08	The Shop Chairperson or the designated Shop- Committee member shall be informed of all lay-offs, in excess of one
< 1 !> day .
ARTICLE
- PLANT CLOSURE
Severance p>ay for employees displaced as result of p>lant-closure, shall be paid in accordance with the following:
Length of Service:
Severance Pay:
up to two years
After Af ter Af ter Af ter After Af ter Af ter After Af ter
2	years
3	years •
4	years
5	years
6	years
7	years 3 years
9	years
10	years
One week's Notice or,
One week's pay in lieu of Notice
One i. 1 5 week ‘ s pay Two (2 !> week ’ s pay Three (3) week’s pay Four C4:> week's pay Five (5) week's pay Six <S:> week’s pay Seven C7) week's pay Eight <3) week’s pay Nine C3.> week's pay
Ten CIO) week's pay Eleven (11> week 1s pay Twelve <12> week’s pay
Employees shall receive an additional $100:00 for each year of service beyond fifteen years up to maximum of twenty five years of service.
ARTICLE 24	- TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
After 11 years After 12 years After IS years
24.01	Technological change shall mean any change in the equipment, material or methods of operation of the plant
24.02	Where, a5 a direct.. result, of a technological change, there will be a significant reduction in the number of employees required, the following shall apply:
<a:> The Employer shall give not less than three (3) months' notice to the Union of the change.
<b.') Employees whose jobs are displaced as a result, of technological change but. whose seniority is such that they
would not normally be involved in a layoff shall, where feasible, be given the opportunity to take up to three (3)
months training to qualify them for other work. If re—training on new work is necessary, the average pay of the said employee shall be maintained during the training period up to a maximum of four (41 weeks and then the rate of pay for the new work shall apply.
<c) Employees who are laid off as a result, of technological change or who choose to take a layoff instead of a transfer and/or re-training shal1 have the option of:
i) taking a layoff until a suitable opening again occurs at the plant;
If they choose to take severance pay, their recall rights shall he forfeited, but in any event, those who choose layoff with recall rights instead of severance pay shall be paid their severance pay if a suitable opening does not occur within twelve (12) months of layoff.

Severance pay for employees displaced as result, of technological change or plant closure, shall be paid in accordance with the following;
Length
bervice:
Severance
Pay:
After 2 years years After 4 years After-.5 years After 6 years Af ter 7 years After 8 years After 9 years After 10 years After 11 years After 12 y§fll''s After 15 years
One ( 1 :> week 1 s pay Two (2) week's pay Three <3) week's pay Four (4) week's pay Five < 5) week's pay Six (5) week’s pay Seven < 7 ) week's pay Eight <3) week’s pay Nine <9) week's pay Ten CKO week's pay Eleven (11) week's pay Twelve (12) week's pay
ARTICLE 25	- INDIVIDUAL AGREEMENT
25.01	Nr individual contract shall be entered into by the Employer with any of its Employees without, prior discussion with, and consent of, the Union.
ARTICLE 25	- MISCELLANEOUS
25.01	Wherein this Agreement the singular or the masculine has been used, the same shall be construed as meaning the plural or the feminine or neuter as the case may be or where the context of this Agreement, may require.
25.02	The Article and Section Titles are included solely for convenience and shall in no event, be construed to affect, or modify any part, of the provisions of this Agreement, or be construed as part, thereof .
25.03	The Employer shall provide the Union with suitable Bulletin Board Space(s) for the exclusive use of the Union, in a placets) readily accessible to all Union Employees.
25.04	The Union shall be provided with a list- of all the employees of the Company who are classified as Assistant Supervisors.
ARTICLE 27	- STRIKES AND LOCKOUT
27.01	It is agreed that there shall be no strike, slow down or group absence on the part of the Union and that there shall be no lockout on the part- of the Employer for the duration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 28
RELATION WITH FIRMS ON STRIKE
28.01	The Employer agrees that it will not perform any work or qive any work to any .jobber, manufacturer, contractor, or sub-contractor employed in the apparel and clothing industry with which a legal strike has been declared, and in no event shall it require any of its Employees to perform work destined directly or indirectly for such concern. Such work shall not be deemed in the worker’s regular course of employment and the worker need not perform such work. It is agreed that this provision does not apply to any whole—salers or retailers who are customers for the normal products of the Employer. The
Union shall advise the Employer in advance if the Union considers any action is appropriate under this section.
28.02. It shall not be considered a breach of this Agreement on the part of the Union or on the part of any individual Employee, if any Employee or Employees refuse to cross any legally established picket line recognized by the Union or to enter upon the legally picketed premises of the Employer, of their own volition or by any direction of the Union, nor shall such refusal be cause for discharge or discipline.
ARTICLE 28
DISCRIMINATION
28.01	The Employer and the Union agree that they will not discriminate against any’Employee of the Employer or member of the Union or Applicant for employment because of Race, Color, National Origin, sex or age.
ARTICLE 30	- SEXUAL HARASSMENT
30.01	The Employer and the Union do not condone sexual harassment. Any incidents which are reported shall be investigated, and where appropriate, action shall be taken
ARTICLE 31	- EQUAL FAY
31.01	There will be no differential in pay for equal work between male and female Employees.
ARTICLE
- BOILERS
32.01	Government. Boiler Inspection will take place whenever possible during vacation however, when this cannot be done, arrangements will be made to keep those directly affected employed, namely:	1. Shrinkers, 2. Laundry,
3. I ron, 4. Pressers.
- 24
ARTICLE 33	- UNION REPRESENTATION, ACCESS TO SHOP,
EXAMINATION OF BOOKS, PAYROLL RECORDS
33.01	Representatives of the Union, including Engineers and Accountants, Shall at reasonable time and with prior notice to Management, have access to the place of Business of the Employer for the purpose of dealing with any specific complaint, condition or matter arising out of or pertaining to this Agreement or its operation or the relation of the Parties hereto and such Representatives and.the Employer shall cooperate together so as to enable such.matters to be investigated, dealt with and disposed of as satisfactorily and expeditiously as possible, but not so as to disturb the business of the Employer.
33.02	The Union agrees that it will not. interview any Employee or Employees during regular scheduled working hours without the permission of an Employer's representative.
33.03	The Employer shall upon request, make available to such Representatives of the Union the pertinent payroll records and payroll books and any time study records employed in setting piece rates.
ARTICLE 34	- SHOP CHAIRPERSON, SHOP COMMITTEE
34.01	The Union shall notify the Employer of the names of Employees designated as the Shop Chairperson or Shop committee members who shall deal with the Employer with such matters as may arise in the absence of a Union Business Agent or Representative.
ARTICLE 35	- HEALTH FIND SAFETY CDMMTITEE
35.01	The Shop Committee and Management Representatives shall act as the Health and Safety Committee, and a portion of the Shop Committee meetings shall be devoted to health and Safety matters. Copies of all minutes of the Health and Safety Committee portions of these Committee meetings shall be forwarded to the Union.
ARTICLE 36	- ADJUSTMENT DF GRIEVANCES
36.01	In this Agreement., the meaning of Grievance is as f o 1 ’bws!
- 25 -
Any dispute or difference between Local 287 of the International Ladies* Garment Workers' Union and Jantzen Canada Inc. governing the dismissal or discipline of an Employee bound by this Agreement, and any difference between the parties bound by this Agreement concerning its' interpretation, application or alleged violation thereof.
36.02	If any grievance arises affecting any Employee bound by this Agreement, it shall be finally and conclusively settled without stoppage of work in the following manner:
Step 1 - The Employee concerned shall within thirty (30) working days of the occurrence refer any complaint
to his/her supervisor either directly or through the Shop Committee person.
Step 2 - If the complaint is not satisfactorily settled within five (5) working days, the Employee concerned or the Shop Committee person shall submit the grievance in writing within fifteen (15) working days to the Personnel Manager or designate.
Step 3 '■ If a satisfactory settlement is not reached within ten (10) working days of the written Grievance being submitted, the matter shall be referred to a Senior Union Representative and a designated Management Representative.
Stec 4 - If a satisfactory settlement is not reached, the matter shall be referred to arbitration within
thirty (30) working days of the referral to Step 3.
NOTE - Group Grievance and Union Policy Grievance shall be referred to Step 2.
ARTICLE 37	ARBITRATION
37.01	When a matter is referred to arbitration, the Union and the Employer shall meet in order to agree upon a single arbitrator, or failing agreement, each shall name an Arbitration Board Member. The two Arbitration Board Appointees shall meet within seven (7) working days in order to arrange for an Arbitration chairperson. Failing agreement on a Chairperson they shall request the Industrial Relations Council to appoint a Chairperson.
— 26 —
37.02	The ArbitratorCs) shall have the power to determine whether the matter is arbitrable. Having made this determination, the ArbitratorCs) shall hear and determine the differences and shall within fourteen (14) working days following completion of the hearing issue a decision, which shall be final and binding upon the parties.
37.03	The ArbitratorCs) shall not have the jurisdiction or authority to alter, modify, extend, or amend the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 38	- DISCHARGE FOR CAUSE
38.01	No Employee shall be discharged except for proper cause. Whenever the Employer intends to discharge an Employee, the Employer shall, when feasible advise the Union Shop Steward in advance.
ARTICLE 39	- DURATION AND RENEWAL OF AGREEMENT
39.01	This Agreement shall be effective as of the first day
of September 1,	1990, and shall continue in full force and
effect up to the close of business on the thi.rtv-f-1 rst.dav_
of August, 1996; and thereafter from year to year unless either the union or the Employer gives written notice to the other of its desire to revise this Agreement or to conclude a new Collective Agreement.
39.02	Where notice to revise or to conclude a new Collective Agreement is given the provisions of this Agreement, shall continue in force until a new Agreement is signed or the right to strike or lockout accrues, whichever comes first..
39.03	It is mutually agreed that the operation of sub-section 2 of Section 66 of the Labour code of British Columbia Act. is excluded from this Agreement.
ARTICLE A0 - RATIFICATION AND AMENDMENTS
40.01	This Agreement is subject to the ratification of the Members of Local 287 of the International Ladies' Garment Workers* Union employed by Jantzen Canada Inc..
40.02	This Agreement may be amended by witten agreement and authorization of both Parties or their successors.
1'7 -
ALL TIME WORK TO BE. PAID AS FOLLOWS:
CRAFT MINIMUMS - ALL INCREASES ARE TO BE APPLIED TO EACH INDIVIDUAL'S HOURLY RATE VWEN THAT RATE IS IN EXCESS OF THOSE LISTED BELOW.
GENERAL HANDS AND BUNDLE HELPERS FIRST 6 WEEKS NEXT 4-1/2 MONTHS THEREAFTER
SEPT. 1ST, 1393 S. 75 7.63 8.14
KNIT HELPER, SHIPPING CLERKS, WASHERS, MENDERS, MANIFEST CLERK, TAG PRINTER CLERK, YARN ROOM CLERK, WINDER, UTILITY CLERE
FIRST 6 WEEKS NEXT 4-1/2 MONTHS NEXT 6 MONTHS THEREAFTER
6.75 7.69 8.14
8.76
QUALITY AUDITORS AND BUNDLER: FIRST 6 MONTHS NEXT 6 MONTHS THEREAFTER
7.69
8.14
8.76
KNIT TRAINEES FIRST 6 WEEKS NEXT 4-1/2 MONTHS NEXT 6 MONTHS
7.69 8.14 8.76 3.34
- 30 -
THEREAFTER
KN ITTERS CATEGORY 2 FIRST 6 WEEKS NEXT 4-1/2 MONTHS NEXT 6 MONTHS THEREAFTER
8.14 8.76 9.34 9.91
KNITTERS CATEGORY 1 FIRST 6 WEEKS NEXT 4-1/2 MONTHS NEXT 6 MONTHS NEXT 1 YEAR THEREAFTER
:EP.	1 /93
8.76 9.34 9.91 10.50 10.96
KNIT MECHANICS-FIRST 6 WEEKS NEXT 4-1/2 MONTHS NEXT-6 MONTHS NEXT i YEAR NEXT 1 YEAR THEREAFTER KNIT TECHNICIANS FIRST 6 WEEKS NEXT 4-1/2 MONTHS NEXT 6 MONTHS NEXT 1 YEAR NEXT 1 YEAR
9.91 10.50 11.10
11.71
12.87
14.04
11.71
12.88 13.47
14.05 15.40 16.68
THEREAFTER
KNIT HELPERS
(. a ) Able to pick up drop-out-5.
<	b .> Capable of interpreting knitting schedules.
(. c ) Make adjustments in chain lengths.
<	d > Check fabric for faults.
KNIT TRAINEES
Category used to describe those helpers who will eventually become knitters - Category 2.
ALL TRAINEES SHOULD HAVE MECHANICAL APTITUDE.
CUTTER CLASSIFICATIONS CUTTERS
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS - Fully responsible for their lay; taking the marker, checking for errors or omissions, laying up and cutting properly.
CUTTER CATEGORY 1 - Working primarily on volume lays of all grades of fabric regardless of complexity. Fully experienced in use of lay up machine,
SPECIAL CUTTER CATEGORY - Fully experienced in the lay up, marking and cutting of matched fabric lays in single or multiple panel lengths. These lays consist of engineered patterns, plaids or stripes precisely matched to enable quality construction of the garments.
BAND KNIFE CUTTERS - As Cutter Category 2 plus operate the band knife.
CUTTERS CATEGORY 2 — Qualified to cut smaller and less complex lays, may use lay up machine and perform all duties of a stacker as required.
- When qualified by test and time shall move to Cutter 1 category only when an opening exists.
CUTTER IMPROVERS - Second six (6) months.
CUTTER LEARNERS - First six <.&') months.
MACHINE SPREADERS - Fully qualified to load and operate lay up machines properly, taking into account all fabric characteristics; inspects, removes or marks defects and splices as indicated on marker.
BUNDLERS - Assemble garments into bundles, make recuts and hand ir ims.
— 33 —
STACKERS - Qualified to stack smaller and less complex lays, marking pattern on top layer if required.
THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES APPLY FOR PROMOTION IN THE MECHANICAL CATEGQRIES
1.	KNITTER TRAINEES
When qualified by test and time be promoted automatically to Knitter—2.
2.	KNITTER 2
When qualified by test and time shall move automatically to Knittei—I.
3.	KNITTER 1
When qualified by test and time when an opening occurs as a knit
shall move Mechanic.
to Knit. Mechanic
4.	KNIT MECHANICS
When qualified by test and time shall move to Knit-Technician when an opening occurs a5 a Knit Technician.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties have hereunto affixed their hands and seals and the Corporate Parties have hereunto caused to be affixed their Corporate Seals as attested by the hands of their proper officers in that behalf, and the Union has affixed the hands and seals of its properly accredited officers and representatives in their behalf the day and year first above written.
INTERN)
WORKER
LOCAL
37 OF THE
ATuONAL LADIE
GARMENT
UNION
JANTZEN CANADA INC
34
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING PETWEEN
JANTZEN CANADA INC.
AND
LOCAL 287
INTERNATIONAL LADIES* GARMENT WORKERS' UNION
LAY-OFF PROCEDURE
Although the Employer will attempt to provide continuous employment- for all Employees, the nature of the garment industry necessitates periodic lay-off. The following will be procedure followed by the Employer in the event of lay—of f.
In effect, there are three types of lay-off situations:
1.	Limited short term - lay-off lasting two weeks or less,
2.	Limited Icing term - lay-off lasting more than two week s.
'A. Redundancy - lay-off occuring because of technological change or
other change involving permanent curtailment.
As any lay-off becomes necessary, the following steps will he observed by the Employer.
GENERAL
1.	Determine if lay-off is limited short term, limited long term, or
redundancy.
2.	Identify the operations) in the affected department that is the cause of the lay-off.
3.	Identify the most junior employee(s) in the department employed at the affected operation.
LIMITED SHORT TERM
4-. If the lay-off is limited short- term, the most junior employee's) in the department employed at the operation involved, will be reassigned if a vacancy exi-st-s in another department that the employeeCs) has been previously trained to perform. If there is no suitable work, the employee<s) will be laid off but- not for longer than ten (10) working days. Those who are assigned to other work, may apply to return to their former work when that work again becomes available.
3 . 5
LIMITED LONG TERM
5.	When the lay-off is limited long term, five (5) days notice will he given if the affected employee(s) has one or more years of seniority.
S. The more junior employeeCs) in each of the skill areas involved will he re-assigned within the department in accordance with Department seniority to the more junior position of the same skill or one that the employee has previously trained to perform.
Failing re-assignment in accordance with the above, the employeeCs) shall be re-assigned in accordance with plant seniority to the more junior position of the same skill or one that the employee has been previously trained to perform.
The re-assigned employee must demonstrate in the early stages a reasonable ability to perform the job satisfactorily.
If there is no suitable work the employeeCs) will be laid off.
7. The employeeCs) facing a limited long term lay-off, can choose to be re-trained providing a vacancy exists in another department and providing the employee has sufficient seniority. The Employer will endeavour to train up to eight C8) weeks, but the trainee must demonstrate in the early stages of training a reasonable ability to perform the job satisfactorily.
If an employee accepts retraining, they will be transferred permanently to the new department where the vacancy occurs. They may apply to return to their original work and department after the seasonal work in that new department has been completed and provided their original work be available.
S. Should lack of work within a particular skill area necessitate a lay-off, any employee within that area may choose to take a voluntary lay-off.	•
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE OF: REDUNDANCY
3.	in case of lay-off occuring because of technological change or redundancy, the Employer will follow the
procedures as laid out in Article C24) - Technological
______
oi icinge.

GENERAL
10	As openings occur, employees on lay-off will be recalled in accordance,with their seniority provided they can perform the job satisfactorily. When original work becomes available, the re—assigned, retrained, or short./long term employee's) will be notif ied.
11	When the need for long term lay-off becomes apparent, the Employer will advise the Union and sit down with the Committee to discuss the mechanics of the lay-off and to review the list of the employees who will be affected. This meeting will take place as far in advance as is reasonably possible.
12	All information relevant to lay-off will be made available to the Union on request.
DEFINITIONS
13.	Departments — The following are considered to be
Departments:
Knitting, Cutting, Fabric Finishing, Sewing Teams Shipping, Quality Control Audit. Note; Sewing Teams will include elements of the Final Department.
14.	Redundancy - For the purpose of this clause, a
redundant employee is one whose job has disappeared because of a permanent curtailment of an operation.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
THE COMPANY IS MOVING TOWARDS A TEAM METHOD CONCEPT OF PRODUCTION STARTING IN THE FALL OF 1933.
" IN ORDER TO .RESOLVE THE METHGD<S.'i OF PAYMENT FOR EMPLOYEES RESULTING FROM THIS TEAM METHOD OF PRODUCTION, THE COMPANY AGREES TO MEET WITH THE UNION IN SEPTEMBER OF 1994 TO DISCUSS AND RESOLVE THE METHOD* S) OF COMPENSATION INCLUDING SEMI OHITY, DISPLACEMENT OF WORKERS AND QUAL FY OF WORK, AND OTHER MATTERS THAT MAY ARISE FROM THE TEAM METHOD OF PRODUCTION."
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
JANTZEN CANADA INC.
AND
LOCAL 2S7 OF THE
INTERNATIONAL LADIES' GARMENT WORKERS' UNION
INCREASE INCENTIVE PULL
IN THE EFFORT OF INCREASING INCENTIVE PULL IN THE PIECE WORE STRUCTURE, THE PARTIES AGREE TO THE FOLLOWING:
1
Over the life a£ this and subsequent, agreemnt-s,
■ ^qofyl (A) in Sewing, Press and Hand Operator classifications will receive increases so that the <A!> guaranteed rate will gradually reduce from the sixty minute base level.
The Minute Value wiW be increased by the full negotiated increase.
a. Start, rates will receive full increases.
LOCAL 2S7 Of THE INTERNATIONAL	JANTZEN CANADA INC.
LADIES' GARMENT WORKERS' UNION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN	•
■JANTZEN CANADA INC. ' AND
LOCAL 287 OF THE INTERNATIONAL LADIES' GARMENT WORKERS' UNION
All concerns about prices on piece work shall be referred to the Piece Price Committee. The Piece Work Committee will meet with Management to discuss those concerns.
ihe Union and the tmployer may bring in advisors or consultants.	'
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
JANTZEN CANADA INC.
AND
LOCAL 2S7 OF THE INTERNATIONAL LAD ES‘ GARMENT WORKERS’ UNION
In order to ensure that relations between the Employer and Employees operate in a harmonious and tolerable atmosphere, the Company and the Union agree that all dealings with each other and between union and non-union Employees will be conducted in a polite and dignified manner.
No harassment (verbal, racial, sexual, etc.) will be tolerated.
DATED THIS
*-* r
LETTER OF ARGREENENT BETWEEN
LOCAL 287 OF THE INTERNATIONAL LADIES' GARMENT WORKERS' UNION
AND
JANTZEN CANADA INC
It is agreed that the following employees shall continue to be pa .i d
shift differential at. 6-1/22. over the day shift, rate.
KEVAN ERNESTI KI HONG TAM
This arrangement, shall continue for these employees so long as the shift
on which they are currently employed is retained.
JANTZEN CANADA