between
THE ARROW COMPANY
A Division of Cluett, Peabody Canada, Inc.
and
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS OF AMERICA
April 1,1985 to March 28,1987
INDEX
Page
Coverage....................................... 2
Recognition.................................... 2
Trial Period and Notification of Hiring and Terminations
Union Security................................   3
Wages.......................................... 4
Hours of Work and Over
Equal Division of Work........................ 10
Vacations...................................... H
Statutory Holidays............................. 13
Bereavement.................................... 14
Jury Duty...................................... 15
Employee	Welfare............................. 15
Leave of Absence.............................. 17
.......... 19
.......... 19
......... 22
......... 22
.........22
.........23
Discharge.......................
Grievance Procedure and Arbitration ,
Strikes, Stoppages and Lockouts.
Existing Plant Practices.......
Management Rights..............
Terms of Agreement.............
SCHEDULES
Schedule "A" — StartingRate....................24
Schedule “B" — Minimum Wage Rates.............. 31
Schedule "C— Insurance.........................32
Schedule “D" — Hours of Work................... 34
Schedule “E” — Vacation........................ 35
Letter of ynderstandin^ ... .j. yV - •
i
oec18mr ^
37
PrintedAug. 1985 A.C.112-9C
O I
representative or representatives and anv^rouo of employees, if held on the Employer's premises during working hours, shall first be arranged with the local Plant office of the Employer.
C The Employer agrees to make available to the Union, upon request, such payroll and production records as the Union may reasonably require in the performance of its duties as the collective bargaining agent for the employees covered by this Agreement.
D. The Union shall have the right to post notices on a bulletin board or boards to be located in each plant of the Employer at mutually agreeable places, provided such notices first are submitted to the local plant office of the Employer for approval. The Employer agrees that approval shall not unreasonably Jbe withheld.
Article III — TRIAL'I’ERIOD AP
NOTIFICATION OF HIRING AND TERMINATIONS
A.	All new employees shall have a trial period of three (3) months. In exceptional cases, the Employer shall have the ri ht, upon notice to the Union, to extend the trial period for an additional period not to exceed another month. During the trial period the Employer may terminate a new employee and such termination shall not be subject to grievance procedure. All other terms and conditions of employment, except as expressly provided otherwise, snail apply to employees during their trial period.	'
The Employer shall inform the Union as to all new employees hired and employees whose services have been terminated.
C. It will be the policy of the Employer to give consideration in employment to such qualified ana satisfactory workers as the Union may refer to the Employer.
Article IV - UNION SECURITY
A. Membership in the Union shall be required as a condition of employment of each employee on the completion of three (3) months of employment, except in such
3
cases where the trial period has been extended.
All employees who are now members or hereinafter become members cf the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, remain members in good standing during trie term of this Agreement.
C. The Employer agrees to deduct at such intervals, as may be agreed upon by the parties, from the wages of each of its employees, who are members of the Union and who have authorized the same, the prescribed dues and to remit the same once each month to the Union.
Article V - WAGES
A.	Wages shall be paid in accordance with time work rates or piece work base rates as outlined in Schedule "A", or Piecework Off Standard rates, and piecework minimum rates, as outlined in Schedule "B”. Anv changes in an individual time rate or piecework rate, shall De made by mutual agreement cf the parties. It is understood that increases in piecework- base rates may be necessary due to changes in Provincial minimum rates, in order to maintain adequate incentive pull. It is also understood that such changes may be made by mutual agreement of the parties. Any information in respect to piecework rates and wages which is supplied bv the Employer to the Union, willbe kept confidential between the parties concerned.
B.	Rates for new o.perations, changed onerations or changed conditions shall be set by the Employer. Rates for new equipment shall be set by 'the Employer and shall be considered temporary for a maximum period of one (1) year. During which time the Employer shall have the right to modify or change the rate. After the period cf one (1) year, tne changing of a rate shall not be done except by mutual agreement.
Both parties agree that the new rates should be tried. If the Union then Questions the new rates, they may take up the matter in the form of a grievance. The rate shall be set as soon as practicable, using the base rate as outlined in Schedule "A" which is applicable to the partic-
4
ularjob group for which the rate is to be set.
In the event the qualifications of the job have changed, a new job grouping will be mutually decided on between the employer and the Union.
C.	The Employer and the Union agree that a new operation, changed operation, or a changed condition may temporarily affect an employee's earnings while in the process of learning ana adjusting thereto. The Employer therefore agrees that in the absence of a retraining incentive he will pay to an employee thus affectednis average hourly rate as defined in Section “H" until a new piece rate is fixed in accordance with Subparagraph B cf Article V. Further, the said average hourly rate of the affected employee shall be guaranteed for a period to be mutually agreed upon. In the alternative, the Employer may use a retrainingincentive which shall be so fixed as to enable the employee reasonably to maintain the earning level as outlined'in Scheduled" for the job grouping which he is in the process of learning'and/or adjusting to the new operation, changed operation or changed condition.
D.
an employee is temporarily transferred from one job or operation to another job or operation at the request of the Employer and there is work available on his job or operation, he shall, while working on the job or operauon to which he'tma been transferred,’do paid his current average hourly rate as defined in Section "H" of this Article, or piece rate earnings on the operation whichever is greater.
2. If the employee is temporarily transferred, due to lack of work on his job or operation to another job or operation,he shall while working on that iob or operation be paid his average hourly rate, or the off standard rate as listed in Schedule “B’', whichever is the lesser. Temporary transfers under such circumstances shall be considered as work on the employee's job, however the earnings and hours worked shall be excluded from the calculation of the employee's average rate.
5
If the job or operation ceases to exist in a plant, and an employee has to be transferred to a new job or operation, the employee shall be paid his off standard rate or his average hourly rate whichever is the lesser until a retraining program can be set.
4.	A piece worker will be paid piece work earnings if requested to do his job or operation on another product. Earnings will be included in the calculation of the employee's average hourly rate.
5.	If an employee is permanently transferred at his re uest to anothe'rjob or operation he will be Paid at the 0#-Standard Rate as listed in Schedule ‘B’’ or his average whichever is lower, until a retraining program can be set.
6.	If an employee is permanently transferred at the Employer's request to another job or operation, and there is work available on his job or operation, he will be paid his average hourly rate until a retraining program can be set.
7.	An employee transferring to a time work operation shall be paid wra. step below the time work rate the
appropriate time work category, which most closely matches their established average before transfer, for 30 days.
An employee transferring from one shift to another, on the samejob or operation, shall retain his current average hourly rate.
E. Minima
l)	Minimum rates are those that are in existence at the present time as outlined in Schedule "B".
When a matchup cutter is given a trial as a production cutter and is teamed with an experienced cutter, the experienced cutter will be guaranteed his average hourly rate as defined in Section “H" of this Article and the matchup cutter will be paid his existing matchup rate. This arrangement will extend for a reasonable period, after which point a split percentage of the total piece work earnings of the team will be arranged. As a
6
new cutter progresses his percent will be adjusted until such time as tne new cutter has reached experienced production. The ability of the experienced cutter to maintain his average hourly rate shall determine how the percentages shall be split.
F.	Employees who report for work at their regular starting tiriie. in the absence of notice from the Employer, to the contrary, or at such other hour designated the Employer, shall be paid their established time or piece rate 'earnings for all work performed between the hour they report for work and the hour they are dismissed, but In no event shall they be paid for less than:
1)	In the case of regular shift employees, first (1st) shift or second (2nd) shift, four (4) hours.
2)	In the case of evening shift employees, two (2) hours. The definition of Evening Shift as outlined in Schedule “D”.
This clause shall not apply in the event of power failure, fire or other causes over which the Employer has no control. Failure of other emplyees to report to work shall be considered cause over which the Employer has no control only if an emergency arises which he could not foresee ana he has taken adequate steps to train and provide relief workers.
G.	An employee paid on a piece rate basis who is required to waif for work due to machine breakdown or other cause beyond his control shall be compensated at the rate cf his average hourly rate as defined in Section “H" of this Article for all such waiting time in excess of a total cf fifteen (15) minutes per day. Any employee who finds it necessary to wait for work shall, on each separate occasion, notify his immediate supervisor both at the beginning and end of such waiting period. Payment for waiting time shall cover only such time as follows such notification. The Employer may transfer such employees to another machine or job during waiting time on which job or machine the employee shall demonstrate reasonable effort. When a machine which
*7
has broken down and is not repaired by the end of the shift and is subsequently repaired at the beginning cf the same operators next shift a second waiting period will not be added for that repair.
H.	Average hourly rate shall mean the rate paid to piece workers working on a time work basis where the terms of this contract call for this rate. It is the employee’s straight time average earned rate for the last available period not including tie worked at the minimum guarantee or off standard rate, this rate being adjusted to give effect to any change in earning on the operation (resulting from any adjustment in piece work rates after commencement of the period.) Average rates will be computed on a twice yearly basis. The new average will be issued as of the closest Monday to the last day of March or the last day of September and will be computed on applicable earnings for the last six (6) month calendar period ending on the closest Friday to the last week in March and/or September. Any wage adjustments will be included in this average.
Article VI — HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
A.	The regular hours of work for all employees except watchmen, firemen and janitors shall be forty (40) hours per week from Monday to Friday	3HWOO C
The Schedule of hours of work by the Employer and the Union is attached to and made part cf this Agreement as Schedule ‘‘D”, Paragraph (1). watchmen, firemen and janitors will work nours as scheduled by the Maintenance Supervisor and will be paid time arid one half for all hours worked in excess of their normally scheduled hours of forty (40) hours in their scheduled work week.	’
B.	All work in excess of the regular schedule of hours, as outlined in Schedule "D1', paragraph 2, and all work on Saturday and/or on a sixth consecutive day of work during his regular work week shall be regarded as overtime and paid for at the rate of time and one half. Overtime pay for work on a designated holiday shall be in addition to holiday pay to wnich the employee is
Article VII - EQUAL DIVISION OF WORK l A. Whenever there is insufficient work, the available work shall be divided equally insofar as is oracticable among all regular employees on the operation involved. Lavoffs and recall to work after temporary layoff (30 consecutive working days or less) within an operation or similar operation snail be governed by e.	‘
Indefinite layoffs (more than 30 consec	„
days) and recall to work shall be governed by length of service. Employees recalled from such layoffs, up to a period of one year, shall be entitled to their previous job or a similar job with the right to accept or decline another job.
B.	The Employer agrees to extend a preference in ac-
cordance with length of service to laid off employees "Who have not been laid off for more than one (1) year" with reference to training onjob openings. The status of such re-employed person shall be agreed upon by the Employer and the Union.	'
C.	When openings occur on time work jobs,
employees with service on other jobs may be referred to the Employer. This paragraph shall not apply to promotions to supervisory jobs.	'
If	oyee is transferred at his own request to
another job, he relinquishes his right to return to any of his previous jobs, until an opening occurs.
E.	If at any time the Union is of the opinion that any section or department is overmanned so as to require the laying off of employees in order to permit reasonable steady employment, it may take up with the Employer the question of laying off employees in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
F.	No new employees are to be hired for ajob or operation while employees on such job or operation are on layoff or short time. Short tie is defined as less than 32 hours work per week for a minimum of 4 consecutive weeks for ail employees on the applicable operation, excluding operations affected by seasonal changes.
total length of service.
10
Statutory Holiday pay he shall be entitled to an additional da off with pay in lieu of the Statutory Holiday such day to be mutually agreed upon with the Union.
Article IX - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
A. Employees, excluding probationary employees with less than ninety days (90) service, shall be paid for the following eleven (11)
Two Floating Holidays — To be decided by mutual agreement by October 15 of the preceding year.'
B. HmijlrowftS. shall be paid Cot each of the above specified holidays. Should any of the holidays fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the day celebrated as such shall be considered the holiday.
In the case of time rated employees, the pay for such holiday shall be the individual employee’s current hourly rate'times the regular scheduled hours of work. In the case of piece rated employee's, the pay for each holiday shall he the individual employee's average hourly rate as defined in Article V, Section “H”, times the regular scheduled hours of work. In the case of an employee who would have been permanently and formally scheduled by the Employer to work more or less than the regular scheduled hours cf work on the day on which the holiday occurs, such employee shall receive as his holiday pay the amount of pay he would have received had he worked such scheduled hours.
1)	An employee who is absent from work without reasonable cause on the work day before or the work day after a holiday shall not be entitled to holiday pay.
further provisions set for
New Years Day Good Friday '
Victoria Day	Christmas
Canada Day	Boxing D
Civic Holiday
Christmas Bay Boxing Day
D.
13
Reasonable cause shall include the following:
a)	Personal illness of the employee or serious illness in his immediate family. The Employer may request a doctor’s certificate or other adequate proof thereof.
b)	Death in the immediate family of the employee.
c)	Excused absence by the Employer for any reason.
d)	Absence from work because work is unavail-
An employee who is absent from work during the entire week in which the holiday ocurs shall not be entitled to holiday pay unless such absence is occasioned by personal illness certified by a doctor’s certificate dr ayoff.	'
3)	An employee absent from work because of personal illness'certified bv a doctor’s certificate or layoff shall be entitled to’ holiday pay unless such employee is ill or laid off for three full consecutive weeks as follows:
a]	The entire week immediately preceding the week in which such paid holiday occurs; and
b]	The entire week during which such paid holiday occurs: and
c]	The entire week immediately following the week in which the paid holiday occurs.
A.	All employees shall be entitled to a maximum’ of three (3) working, days off with pav for bereavement in the immediate family. Immediate family to include the employee’s father, mother, father-m-law, mother-in-law. spouse or common-law spouse, but not both, children, sister, brother and adopted children.
B.	All employees will be entitled to one (1) working day off with pay. provided such working day is the day or
able.
Article X
14
the funeral, in the event of the death of a grandchild, grandparent or a brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
The three working days as outlined in Paragraph A, which an employee would be eligible to receive payment for, will be computed in the following manner.
In the event of the death of a spouse or common-law spouse, but not both, the working days may be; the day oi the death, the day of the funeral, the day after the funeral, or any working day in between the day of the death and the day of the funeral, up to a maximum of three (3) working days.
2)	In the case of other members of the immediate family as outlined in Paragraph A, the working days may be: tne day of the death, the day of the funeral'or any working days in between the death and funeral: up to a maximum of three (3) working days.
C,	If a death occurs in the immediate family and the employee is unable to attend because of distance and/or the employee is advised of the death after the funeral has taken'place, they will be granted bereavement pay for the day of the funeral or the day after notification has been received.	'
If an employee is required to be absen____
because he is called	the Employer will
reimburse the employee lor tile difference between his average hourly rate for the time he is away and the amount the court pays him for appearing.
In order to qualify an employee must supply the Employer with the necessary receipts showing the amount paid to the employee by the court.
Article XII — EMPLOYEE WELFARE
A. Insurance
1)	An employee qualifies for the benefits outlined in Schedule “C" after completing six (6) months employment.
Article XI - JURY DUTY
15
2)	The Employer agrees to assume full payment of the cost of Employee Benefits as outlined in Schedule “C”. Effective April 1,1985 and/or at such date the new Benefit becomes effective.
3)	The Employer will maintain full benefits as defined in Schedule ‘ C’' for all employees who are on leave of absence except maternity leave.
4)	The Employer will maintain full coverage of insurance benefits for a maximum of one year for employees on leave of absence for maternity.
5)	All employees who retire under the provision of the ACTWU Retirement Fund shall be entitled to the Group Li
working extensions may be granted on a year to year basis provided agreement has been reached between the Employer ancf the Union as to their working status.
statutory holiday pay! of all employees in the Kitchener plant, into a Pension Fund for those employees. The fvlemorandum Of Agreement, Declaration Of Trust and Regulations thereunder as signed by the parties on February 22nd, 1958 shall henceforth apply, except as amended or superseded from time to time thereafter.
2) The Employer agrees to contribute 1.8% of employees earnings as required by regulations as applicable January 1966 to the Cana'da Pension Plan. Tne employees shall contribute 1.8% of earnings as required by regulations of the Canada Pension Plan.
16
Article xm - LEAVEOFABSENCE
A. Leave of absence shall be granted to an employee upon request if the employee is ill or a member of his immediate family is seriously ill. Illness shall be certified by a doctor's certificate if required. Leave of absence on account of illness shall include leave of absence in maternity cases, subject to the following conditions:
1)	Employees with less than three (3) months of service snail not be granted a leave of absence.
2)	Employees with more than three (3) months of service but'less than one (i) year of service shall be granted a leave of absence for personal illness (not to include maternity leave) up to a maximum of six (6) months with previous job to be guaranteed for the first three 0) months and a job of similar nature guaranteed for the next three (3) months.
3)	Employees with more than one year of service shall be granted leave of absence for personal illness (not to include maternity leave) up to a maximum cf one year with previous job guaranteed for the first six months'and ajob of similar nature guaranteed for the next six months.
4)	Employees with nine months of service but less than one year of service shall be granted maternity leave up to a maximum of six months with preference given in any subsequent hiring to ajob cf similar nature.
5) Employees with one year of service shall be granted for their first maternity leave, while in the employment of the employer, a leave up to a maximum of one year, with previous job guaranteed for the first six
months and a preference given in any suDsequent hiring j for the second six months to a job of similar nature^g^ Jq£ ^ 6 7
6)	For additional maternity leaves in accordance with the Standards Act of the Province of Ontario.
7)	Employees with more than six months of soArice shall be granted leave of absence for illness in the immediate family up to a maximum of three months with
17
previous job guaranteed.
The initial leave of absence for employees with six months or more of service shall not be more than three months, this leave may be extended for additional periods of one month each, up to a maximum of one year.
It is understood that leaves of absence and extensions not herein provided may under certain exceptional circumstances be necessary. Leaves of absence and extensions under such exceptional circumstances shall be subject to agreement between the Employer and the Union.
Any employee who has been absent on account of illness, upon return to work, must be physically able to perform the work available. The employer may' demand a doctor's certificate as evidence of physical capacity.
E. In case a job or operation has been, abolished during an employee’s leave of absence, such provisions
granted to a reasonable number of employees elected to act as representatives of the Union, or as delegates to Union Conventions, conferences, and other similar functions. Such employees shall be reinstated to their respective previous job, operations or machines upon return to work, provided that the leave is two weeks or less. In the event of a leave of more than two weeks for any of the foregoing reasons such employee shall be reinstated to his previous job and insofar as practicable to the same operation or machine. An employee on leave of absence as a delegate to a Union Convention, conference or other similar function shall be entitled to holiday pay for any holiday which occurs during such leave.
G. Any employee who is granted a leave of absence under this Article shall be given a written authorization thereof by the Employer, which authorization shall
IB
include the dates of the beginning and the end of the leave of absence. A copy of said authorization shall be sent to the Union within one week cf the granting of the leave cf absence. Employees on leave of absence wishing an extension should make application in writing for such extension prior to the expiration date of the granted leave cf absence.
Article XIV - DISCHARGES
The Employer retains the right to discharge for just cause any eihployee covered by this Agreement. The Employer'shall notify the Union of the discharge. Upon receipt of said notice, the union shall within three (3) working days, present all com laints of alleged discharge without just cause to the Employer.
If the complaint cannot be adjusted by mutual agreement, it shall be submitted to arbitration for determination. The Employer shall have the right to submit the disputed discharge to arbitration at any time after complaint is made bv the Union. If the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration finds that the employee was discharged without just cause, reinstatement shall be ordered, and the payment of back pay may be required in such amount as the circumstances warrant. This Article shall not apply to an employee during his trial period. Failure of a discharged employee to "romptly leave the premises when so ordered by the Employer shall in itself constitute, iust cause regardless of the justice or merits of the discharge itself. It is understood that the employee has the right to file a grievance with the Union.
Article XV —
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
A The Union shall designate a representative {herein called the Union plant representative) for each of its plants of the Employer. Such Union representatives need not be an employee and may participate in the* investigation and adjustment of any grievance arising out cf this contract. A representative'of the Employer shall
19
meet and confer with the Union plant representative at any stage cf the grievance procedure.
B. Any complaint, grievance or dispute arising out of or relating to the provisions of this Agreement, or the interpretation or performance thereof, snail be taken up for adjustment in the following manner:
1st. Between the aggrieved employee, and, if he wishes, the departmental Union representative, on the one hand, and the supervisor of the department on the other hand.
2nd, If the matter is not satisfactorily adjusted in Step One, the Shop Chairman shall present the grievance to the superintendent of his division or plant.
3rd. If the matter is not satisfactorily adjusted in Step Two, the Union shall present the grievance to the Plant Manager or his designated representative.
If the matter is not satisfactorily adjusted in Step Three, the National Officers of the Union or a representative designated by them shall present the grievance in writing to'the executive of the Employer designated by it for this purpose.
It is agreed that the Employer shall have access to the grievance procedure in the same way as an employee.
D. Arbitration
1)	If the Union and the Employer are unable to adjust any complaint, grievance or dispute, as the case may be in accordance with the procedures provided in paragraph “B” of this Article, then the matter shall be referred to arbitration.
2)	Arbitration shall be by an impartial Arbitrator,
a. If an Arbitrator cannot be agreed upon by both arties within one week after a request 'thereFore, then the Arbitrator shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario.
20
b.	In the event that either party reauests the establishment of a Three Man Board of Arbitration, such Board shall consist of a Chairman, who shall be agreed upon or appointed in exactly the same manner as the impartial Arbitrator above provided for, a representative chosen by the Union and a representative chosen by the Employer.
c.	The compensation and expenses of the impartial Arbitrator or the Board of Arbitration shall, in all cases, be borne equally by the Union and the Employer.
d.	The decision, order, direction, or award of the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Employer, the Union and the employees represented by the Union.
3)	The parties consent that any papers or notices necessary or appropriate to initiate'or continue an arbitration hereunder or to confirm, vacate or modify an award, may be served by registered mail directed to the last known address of the Employer and the Union.
The Arbitrator or the Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the provisions hereof. ' 5
5)	Either party may call such arbitration hearing on giving five (5) days notice by registered mail or two (2) days notice by telegram to the other party. The Arbitrator or Board' of Arbitration, however, if deemed appropriate by him or them, may call a hearing on shorter notice. The parties consent that arbitration hearings shall be held at such place as the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration shall designate.
In the event that any or either party to arbitration shall default in appearing before the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration, then the proof of the party
21
appearing may be taken and any decision, order, direction or award based thereon.
7) The procedure established in this Agreement for the adjustment of disputes shall be the exclusive means for the determination of such disputes, including strikes, stoppages, lockouts, and acts arising therefrom except as expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement.
Article XVI - STRIKES, STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS
Since this Agreement provides for an orderly method for the adjustment of disputes, all strikes, stoppages, slowdowns and lockouts are prohibited. If, however, a strike,, stoppage or slowdown should occur, the Union shall immediately order the workers to return to work. If a strike, stoppage slowdown or lockout occurs, the aggrieved party shall have the right to demand an immediate nearing before the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration on four nours notice.
Article XVII — EXISTING PLANT PRACTICES
AU existing rules, regulations and shop practices of the Employer now prevailing, and not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, shall continue in full force and effect.
The Employer shall have the right to establish new rules, regulations and shop practices which do not conflict with the terms of this Agreement.
ArticleXVHI -MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Union recognizes that it is the exclusive right of the Employer to manage its plants and direct the work force, in particular
1,	To maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
2,	To layoff, transfer, promote or demote, discipline or
discharge employees for just cause.
3,	To hire, and to make appointments to supervisory
capacity.
22
4.	To manage the industrial enterprises in which the EmDlover is engaged, determining the products to be
manufactured,- tne methods of manufacturing, the schedule of production, the kinds and location of machines ana equipment to be used, the processes of manufacturing ana the nature and quality of its pro ducts.
The foregoing enumeration shall not be deemed to exclude other rights of the Employer not specifically set forth, the Employer therefore retains all rights- not specifically covered by this Agreement. The exercise by tne Employer of any of the foregoing rights or any other rights of the Employer shall not alter any of the specific provisions of tne Agreement nor shall they be inconsistent with any of the terms of this Agreement.
Article XIX — TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their successors in interest and snail be effective upon the date thereof and shall remain in full orce and effectuntil the 26th day of March 1987. It 1 be automatically renewed from year to year thereafter unless on or before the 31th day of January 1987, or any year thereafter, notice in writing, by registered mail, is given either party to the other party of their desire to propose changes in this Agreement or of their intention to terminate the same, in either of which event this Agreement shall terminate upon the ensuing 28th day of March.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the paties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized agents as of the date first above written.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Daniel Fitzpatrick	OrvalKuskoff
R. S. Mosser	Bruce Bieth
A. R. Hofstettgr	April Coulton
Michael F. O'Brien
23
SCHEDULE "A"
1. STARTING RATES, WAGE SCALES AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS for hourly paid jobs as defined in Article V, Paragraph A, of this Agreement.
TIME WORK JOB CATEGORIES Category 1
Category 2
Category 3 Category 4
Category 5
Category 6
Category 7
Category 8 Category 9 Special
JOB
Swatcher
Mfg. Expediting Service Cleaning Service
Warehouse Returns Clerk
Elevator Operator Expediting General Service #1 Cleaning Maintenance Matchup
Hand Clean and Touchup Repairs
Sample Expediting
Stockroom Person General Service #2
Shipper Receiver Material	Stockroom-Inspection
Material Stockroom - Relief Shader and Miscellaneous
Apprentice Mechanic Engineer Watchman Truck Driver
General Plant Maintenance Printer
Maintenance Engineer 4th Class Lead Printer Lead Hand Maintenance Head Patternmaker
Mechanic
Senior Mechanic
Chief 3rd Class Engineer
24
TIME WORK RATES (Continued]
CATEGORY	Apr. 1,1985 March 31,1986
CATEGORY 6
Start 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year
CATEGORY 7
Start 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year
CATEGORY 8
Start 3 months 6 months 1 year 18'months
CATEGORY 9
Start 8 months 1 year
$7.50
7.70
7.90
8.10
8.30
$7.89
8.09
8.29
8.49
8.69
$7.77
7.97
8.17
8.37
8.67
$8.18
8.38
8.58
8.78
9.08
$8.79
9.04
9.29
9.54
9.79
$9.22
9.47
9.72
9.97
10.22
$10.20	$10.67
10.35	10.82
10.55	11.02
Engineer III (Chief) $9.31	$9,74
Mechanics who work on the evening shift on a rotating basis will be paid a premium of $ .50 per hour when working on the evening shift (2:30 —11:00 P.M.)
26
2. PIECEWORK RATES
Base Rate Structure, Planned Earning Levels at 130% of normal, and job groupings for all piece work operations, as defined in Article V, Paragraph A of this Agreement.
a) Base Rate Structure
JOB GROUP	Apr. 1,1983
Croup A Grout) B
Croup C Croup D Grout) E Croup F Croup C Croup H Croup J
$4.5615
4.6615
4.8154
5.8769
6.5000
6.9154
7.1154
7.4154
7.6385
b) Earnings at 130% of Normal JOB GROUP	Apr. 1,1983
Croup A	$5.93
Group B	6.06
Croup C	6.26
Group D	7.64
Group E	8.45
Croup F	8.99
Croup C	9.25
Croup H	9.64
Group J	9.93
c) Pieceworkj ob description guide
GROUP "A"
March 31,1986
$4.8000
4.9000
5.0538
6.1154
6.7385
7.1538
7.3538
7.6538
7.8769
March 31,1986
$6.24
6.37
6.57
7.95 8.76 9.30 9.56
9.95 10.24
THE FOLLOWING OPERATIONS ARE CONSIDERED CROUP "A" IN ALL INSTANCES:
: BUTTON : BUTTONHOLE :BARTACK
: STAMP ■ CREASE
: EXAMINE MANUFACTURING
27
Shirts — Collars
Spot Tack
Fuse
Thermo Press Heat Tack Stay Trim Points Trim Top N.C. Run Top Crease Band N.C. tooert Top Trim Threads Check Collar Attach Grippers Trim Tab
shirts — Parts
Ply Examine Hand Tack Auto Run Cuff Auto Hem Cuff Auto Turn & Stitch Turn and Press Cuff or Flap
Trim and Check Match Cuff Auto Hem Sleeves Perma Press Sleeves Heat Tack Label Bartack Label
Dart Back (Auto)
Pleat Back Tack in Loop Press Fronts Overseam Front [Auto) Auto Centrepleat Auto Tack Sleeve Attach Pocket (Necchi) Trim Fronts Embroidery Trans Flock Bundle Fronts. Backs & Sleeves
Perma Press Collar & Cuff Perma Press Body Examine and Bag Sort & Box
Sort, Sticker & Charge Tie and Aside
Underwear
Cut Elastic Label Boxes Apply Sticker Join Elastic Obtain Work Fold, Bag & Box Charge Out
GROUP “B"
Shirts — collars
Turpoint
Stitch Top Stitch Eyelet
shirts — Parts Manual Hem Cuff
Manual Run Cuff Stitch Cuff
Make Cuff — Newport Run Flap Face Sleeve Hem Sleeves Yoke Back Sew On Label Overseam Back Top
28
GROUP “F"	GROUP‘T*
cutting Room	Cutting Room
Cut Down & Pick CEE	Hand Cutting	— Shirts
Spread & Machine Cut Scale
GROUP“H"
Cutting Room Layout & Marker Maker d) Increases Granted to Piecework Operators
Increases will be applied to employee averages, on the following basis, with the exception of those jobs specifically stated.
ALL JOBS GENERALLY Apr. 1> IMS	March 31,1986
31 cents per hour	31 cents per hour
SPECIFIC JOB RATE ADJUSTMENTS
Apr. 1,1985 March 31,1988
1. Attach Pocket	15 cents	15 cents
(Necchi) to be ad-	per hour	per hour
justed on bonus
(based on average earning level of $8,110 per hour). This o era tion is red circleS new operators are paid at the correct rate. Old operators are paid at the correct rate plus a bonus. 2
2. Press Fronts based	15 cents	15 cents
on an average earn-	per hour	per hour
ing level of $8,688 per
hour.
30
Apr. 1,1985
3. Awl up & Cut	15 cents
Plackets	per hour
4.	Spot Tack (BP. 70) to 15 cents be adjusted on bonus per hour (basedon average
earning level of $7,146 per hour.] This operation is red circled, any new operators will be paia at the correct rate. Old operators are paid at the correct rate plus a bonus.
5.	Centre Pleat (Hori- 0 increase zontal match only)
March 31,1986
15 cents per hour
15 cents per hour
0 increase
e] Retroactive Pay
All active employees on the date of ratification will be paid their applicable increase back to and including April 1,1985 as long as the contract is ratified prior to May 1,1985.
SCHEDULE**!!"
AGREEMENT under.Mitel?.Y Paragraph E, Section. 1,
Minimum Wage for piecework employees shall be as follows:
Minimum starting wage rate for piecework employees shall be equal to the minimum wage as required by Provincial Legislation.
2. Piecework off standard rates as outlined in Article V, Paragraph A, for piecework employees.
The Maximum off standard rate for any pieceworker shall be calculated on the following basis:
The Group base rate of the job multiplied by the appropriate percentage, as per the below scalel or their rates, whichever is the lesser.
31
Job Group	Off Standard As A % Of Base
Apr. li 1983 March 31.1986
GROUP A - Off Standard = 115% of base GROUP B-Off Standard = 115% of base GROUP C — Off Standard = 113% of base GROUP D- Off Standard = 111% of base GROUP E - Off Standard = 110% of base GROUP F - Off Standard = 109% of base GROUP G_ Off Standard —109% of base GROUP H-Off Standard = 108% ofbase GROUPJ- Off Standard = 108% ofbase
The following ceiling of earnings will be applied to the jobs listed below.
Effective April 1, 1985	$6.54
Effective March 31,1989	$6.85
Jobs
Ply Examine Pair Fronts
Examine Manufacturing Manual Lines Final Examine Packaging
SCHEDULE “C”
Employee Welfare Insurance
Agreement under Article XII, the following is the outline of the various Insurance coverages effected by the Employer for the benefit of employees in the bargaining unit and their eligible dependents, after the employee has completed six (6) months of employment.	'
32
$5.2457	$5.5200
5.3607	5.6350
5.4414	5.7108
6.5234	6.7881
7.1500	7.4124
7.5378	7.7976
7.7558	8.0158
8.0086	8.2661
8.2496	8.5071
Medicare Plan.
c)	50% of char es incurred for regular nursing services, provided: the registered nurse is not a member of the employees immediate family and the nursing service is medically necessary and prescribed by the attending physician and is'not covered under the Provincial Medicare Plan.
d)	The reimbursement of up to 50% of the reasonable and customary charges of hospital expenses or physicians expenses incurred when travelling outside the Province of residence, which are over and above the amount provided by the Provincial Medicare Plan.
SCHEDULE *‘D”
1.	Hours of Work
Agreement under Article VI, Section "A", the regular scheduled hours of work excluding maintenance shall be:
KITCHENER
1st Shift — Regular Schedule of Hours
Monday to Friday 7:00 A.M. to 3:30 P.M. with Vi hour for lunch.
2nd Shift
Monday fa Friday 400 PM. to 11:00 P.iVf. with hour
for lunch
Any changes in the above schedule for any employee shall be mutually agreed upon between the employer and the Union.
2.	Overtime
Agreement under Article VI, Section “B", Overtime will be paid on hours worked before or after as follows:
KITCHENER
1st Shift — Before 7:00 A.M. or After 3:30 PM.
2nd Shift — Before 2:30 P.M. or after 11:00 P.M,
34
Unless special agreement has been previously made between the Employer and the Union, all other provisions are covered in Article VI, Section "B”.
SCHEDULE "E"
1. Vacation schedule as defined in Article VIII, Section "A", any employee who as of June 30 in any year, has completed the required number of years of service will be entitled to the following weeks of vacation, with pay, subject to the terms of Paragraph 3, Section 'A".
Number of Years Of Service
Less than 1 year
1	year but less than 2 years
2	years 5 years
13 years 23 years (1985)
33 years (1985) IN1986
22 years 32 years
Vacation Payment 4% cf earnings
Tine Off For rd Vacation.
1 week
4°/o cf earnings
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5 weeks	tfS-C1-/
6 weeks	g z,Q‘-j
2 weeks 0/0 ^
2	weeks
3	weeks Q$02
4	weeks yl,ql{
5	weeks T.’iOS
6	weeks 2.2>0&
5	weeks	5 weeks ZXoS
6	weeks	Q 6 weeks
2. Vacations of employees with less than two (2) years of service are subject to provincial Regulation as set forth in the Employment Act of the Province of Ontario.
3. Vacation time of over four (4) employee option. This option allows an employee, if specified before May 31 of a vacation year, to opt'out of taking additional fifth or sixth week or both, however, they will receive the pay for the opted time at normal
35
vacation time, or at such other vacation time as the employee may specify, should he elect to take such vacation option.
36

(X
M*.IT AQO.	Oft-frftoW
The Arrow Company. Division of Cluett, Peabody Canada Inc., Kitchener - Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers of >frer IC-5, Local 303A (AFl-CIO/CLC) R520^»rP 1 ovees): ~A 24-month renewal agreement effective from April TopOwWt^ppk •» iooi
settled in^pr^* attheDuration of negotiations - 4 months.	—	‘
Wages:
	
•V
April 1/85
March 31/86
Increases
Time Workers Piece Workers
4.81	4.81 (not compounded)
31*	31*
Piece Workers	15*	IS*
Adjustments (Stitching operators, several other classifications)
Time Workers — Houwlv fvit~es
Hours of Work:
Paid Holidays:
Category 1	$5.14-$5.54
(includes Swatcher)	($4.88-45.28)
Category 6	$7.50-$8.30
(includes Truck	($7.U-$7.91)
Driver)
Category 9
(includes most
mechanics)
$10.20-$10.S0
($9.73-$10.06)
40 per week (unchanged). ^_05 /i/\^ 11 (unchanged). ^0\ I1 2.
$5,40-$5.80
$7.89-$8.69
$10.67-$11.02
10 O'). IQO^
IPO^
10 OS |0<>&
Paid Vacation:
I
£
(ill)
Paid Holiday Falling on a Saturday or Sunday - The day actually celebrated
provision only applied for
holidays falling Eligibility for
wages on at least 12 days during the four weeksi immediately preceding a
public holiday has been deleted.	I /t**M**9 ** r** -
Effective 1985,(^weeks after 23 (25) years and^)after 33 (35). AlsoiQ after 1, ©after 5, and Rafter 13 (unchanged); 1966 , 5 after 22 and^^
after 32,
Health
and Welfare:	life Insurance - $5,000 ($4,000).
Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan - Employer will pay 1001 of premium at rates in effect April 1, 1965 (June 1, 1963) and will share equally !“"*/ increases during the term of the agreement. (Arrangement unchanged). 1 7 0|
Pension Plan:
Bereavement leave
Maternity Leave:
Drployer contributes 2 1/21 (2 1/41) of all earnings excluding vacation and holiday pay.	V (o I
Adopted children and common-law spouse added to provision leave; grandchild added to provision granting 1 day leave.
granting. 3 days
&Tployor will maintain Insurance Benefits for a maximun of 1 year (6 months).
leave of Absence Eligibility begins after 3 (6) months of service. for Personal Illness (not maternity) :
Job Security/	No me* esployeet are to be hired for a job or operation while employees on
Hiring Practice:	such job or operation are on layoff or short time (no*).
TAB CODE: 24J S ooL Of
CODE MECANOGRAPHIOUE
INDUSTRY
INDUSTRIE
EMPLOYER:	.
EMPLOYEUR:	A Cnft 1*/
Co
+.<+y
LOCATION:
LOCAUTE:
UNION/SYN 01 CAT
TERM AQT — MOS OUREE DE LA CONY. - MOIS
EFFECTIVE DATE
DATE D'ENTREE EN VIQUEUR
DURATION OF NEG. IN MONTHS STAGE AT WHICH CLOSED DUAEE DES NEGOCtATIONS EN STADE DE La CONCLUSION MOIS
l~t WAGES I 8ALAIRE8
□ WORK. COND. / COND. DE TRAV.
DATE
MOTES/REMAROUES
TSfKouTSAsTSutT^JsE^rND JOB TITIF SALAIRE DE RASE AHTERIEUR UTILISE ET HIRE OE t'EM"LOt:
FIRS! AGREEMENT	__
PREMIERE CONVENTION U JUR. FED. V Q
PSSRA _ LRTFP □

PROV
COLA
CJVC
Q EXISTS/EMSTE
□	DELETED / DISCONTINUES*
□	INACTIVE
'NO. OF EMPLOYEES N° O’EMPLQYES
DATE	WAGE SALA1AE	INCREASE BASIS P ACROSS BOARD 1 GENE RALE . BASE ^AUGMENTATION f“ « f“I SL					
OH ts	ST.24						
	S.ft						
							
							
							
TOTAL INCREASE AUa TOTALS							
tab code 243 5 006 01
CODE MtCANOGRAPHIOUE
INDUSTRY Manufacturing
INDUSTRIE
EMPLOYER. Arrow Company,
EMPlOYEUR:
location itettrfiL Kitchener, Ont
LOCALITE:
union/syndic at T »c.a 1 s 303A & 521. Amalgamated________________________
/"* 1 Vs. *5 r> ty &_ ^L-CTO/C-I
NOTES/BEMAROUES Y y's	U<- ^	’v
TERM AGT - MOS DUREE DE LA CONV. - MOlS •2-4-	SETTLEMENT DATE DATE DU REGLEMEN1 ft f>r~ 1 if S4’^"
EFFECTIVE DATE DATE O ENTREE EN VlGUEUR Ax'.' i /Y-f	TERMINATES ' PREND FIN 1 r.-7 AiA^m'7
l DURATION OF NEG IN MONTHS DUREE DES NEGOCIATIONS EN MOIS	STAGE AT VVHICH CLOSED STAOE DE LA CONCLUSION F" '-V
REOPENER [] WACiES/ SALAIRE5 REOUVERTURE i—, LJ WORK COND ' COND DE TRAV AYTE _ -		
PRFV OHS BASE RATE USED AND JOB TITlf
SALAlRE DE BASE ANTERIEUR UTILISE El TITRE DE L'EM'M.QI
PSSRA
LRTFP
COLA
CIVC
□	EXISTS I EXISTE
□	DELETED I DISCONTINUES
□	INACTIVE
NO OF EMPLOYEES N° D’EMPLOYES
sit
ckrr n A .‘Hy
DATE j	WAGE SALAIRE	INCREASE BASIS D ACROSS BOARD 1 GENERAL BASE D’AUGMENTATION fyj z					□ %
M>'s‘	PtZTF S'A?	3H					
	s'-'T’ r-to	•3lf					r. Ut
							
							
							
TOTAL INCREASE AUG. TOTALE		4^					U,4Si