JOHN FORSYTH COMPANY LIMITED
TORONTO JOINT WESTERN ONTARIO J LOCAL 303B, KIT)
10ARD;
IINT BOARI 1HENER
CMAAiC^ l/°
' Hr'c APRIL 1st, 19S9 lo AP»L-4thH»9*-
Ca<+) AC-r. <|jl<
C5S - fi fPSO
0<tOgo3
INDEX
Page
Coverage ........ ...............■........ 4
Recognition .................................... -	4
Probationary Period and Notificati a of
Hiring and Terminations .........................   *
Union Security ...................................... 6
Management Rights .................................   6
Strikes, Stoppages and Lockouts ..................... 7
Existing Plant Practices ...........................   7
Grievance Procedure and Arbitra on .................. 8
Discharges .........................................   10
Seniority ........................................... H
Super Seniority ..................................... 12
Hours of Work and Overtime .	  15
Time Study Language...........	  14
Wages ............................................... 15
Technological Change................................   19
Job Posting ......................................... 19
Vacations ....	   20
Leave of Absence....................................   23
Statutory Holidays..................................   23
Bereavement .......................................     27
Jury Duty............................................28
Employee Welfare	  28
Pay Equity .......................................... 30
Health and Safety ................................... 30
Utility Workers ....................................   31
Maintenance of Earnings.............................. 31
Term of Agreement	....	33
Schedules
Schedule "A’‘-Time Work ICategories		34
-Piecework 1	lates	37
-Piecework Jc by group	b Description	38
-Retroactive	Pay	41
Schedule “B”—Minimum si	rung Rate for Piecework 42	
-Floor Rate	?or Piecework	42
Schedule “C*—Employee Benefits		43
Schedule “D”—Vacations 44 Letter of Intent-Flexibility		45
AGREEMENT
Made as of the 1st day <|f April, 1989
between
JOHN FORSYTH COMPANY LIMITED
and
FORSYTH NECKWtAR LTD.
(hereinafter referred to as {he “Employer”)
and the
TORONTO JOINT hOARD; WESTERN ONTARIO JOINT BOARD LOCAL 303B, KITCHENER
A.C.T.W.U
(hereinafter referred to a! 1the "Union")
It is the intent and purpose of Union that this agreement shall industrial and economic relations ployer and its employees and set respect to wages, hours of work, ployment of the employees of tl
the employer and the promote and improve tips between the Em-forth provisions with and conditions of cm-e Employer,
It is expected that the representatives of both parties to this Agreement shall demonstr ite in the shop and in all their dealings the co-operative : pirlt of the Agreement and shall be leaders in promotlni that amity and spirit of good will which is tthe purpose of this instrument to establish.
In consideration of the premises arid the mutual agreements of the parties hereinafter sit forth, the Employer and the Union agree as follows:
ARTI
COV]
PLEI GE
ESA'
The term “employee” or ‘employees” as used in this Agreement means all of the employees of the Employer at the following plants:
Kitchener, Ontario Waterloo, Ontario Toronto, Ontario
excluding executives, supcrvlsi tal and professional employ tr nlcal and administrative en" employees, or other emploj)i function or employed in a
Those employees who ar bargaining unit at the effee shall be covered by the A 51 covered shall be excluded froi
ory employees, experimen-es, quality inspectors, tech-ployees, clerical and office ees exercising a managerial tjonfidential capacity.
Whenever the masculine ment it shall be construed unless the context of the n wise.
included in the collective :ive date of this -i\gn*»nn»m reement and those not so m this Agreement
I ender appears in this Agree-is meaning male or female, qlative clause requires other*
ARTICLE n RECOGNITION
A. The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representativfc of its employees as defined In Article I, with reference jo wages, hours and working conditions.
B. The Employer shall _ representative of the employ or appoint. Any Union rei tabling permission of the d< ployer have the right to ent^i of the work rooms, during pose of investigating any out of the administration, alleged violation of the te
owgnlze and deal with such itees as the Union may elect i ircsentatlve shall, upon obsignated official of the Em-r either plant, including any working hours, for the pur-I rievance, or dispute arising nterpretation, application or us of this Agreement. The
Union representative or such duties shall not interrupt 01 conference between the Union r sentatives and any group of emi Employer’s premises during work arranged with the local plant off
represeiuauves in performing >r delay production. Any r ipresentative or repre-i] loyees, if held on the ng hours, shall first be ee of the Employer.
C.	The Employer agrees to available to the Union, upon request, such payroll, production records, methods or sequence of elements records as the Union may reasonably require in the performance of its duties as the collective bargaining ag«|nt for the employees covered by this Agreement.
D.	The Company will provide bulletin boards for the use of the Union. All notices posted on the boards must be approved by an officers of lie Company. The Employer agrees that approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
E.	All Union Representatives! will have reasonable time off from their regular wort to handle complaints within departments. Any loss on earnings incurred will be paid by the Company at average and this amount will be reimbursed to Company [>y the Union once pet month.
When a Union Representative of work to handle complaintsi i department, he shall first reques visor or designate. Before enteri he must obtain permission from department before talking with work. Permission will not be uni
has to leave his place i his own or another leave from his super-ig another department the supervisor of the my employee at theii ir lasonably withheld.
ARTICLE ui
PROBATIONARY PERIOD AND NOTIFICATION-OF HIRING AND TERMINATIONS
A.	An employee will be on fixation until he has completed sixty-five (65) workiig days, seniority will then date hack to the date of hiring.
5
In exceptional cases the Employer shall have the right, upon notice to the Union, to extend a probationary period for an additional period not to exceed twenty-two (22) worked days. Alt other terms and conditions of employment, except article IX and except as expressly provided otherwise, shall sfenly to employees during their probationary period.
B.	The Employer shall jnrorm the Union as to all new employees hired and employees whose services have been terminated.
The Company shall suppiy 10 the Union a copy of all permanent transfers, job postings and layoff notices.
C.	For summer students ail articles of this agreement aggjy ^except, IX, X. XI, XM XVI, XVIII, XIX, XX,
ART1ULEIV UNION SECURITY
A. Membershi in the Ui condition of employment of
ion shall be required as a <ach employee. '
B. All employees who are as a condition of continued bers in good standing during
nembers of the Union shall, employment, remain mem-the term of this Agreement.
C. The Employer agrees as may be agreed upon by of each of its employees, Union, the prescribed dues each month to the Union.
o deduct at such intervals, he parties, from the wages who are members of the aid to remit the same once
ARTIC MANAGEME1
LE V
IT RIGHTS
The Union recognizes that it is the exclusive right of the Employer to manage its plants and direct the work force, in particular:
1) To maintain order, discipline and efficiency
2) To lay off, transfer, promote! or demote, discipline or discharge employees for jus) cause.
3)	To hire and to make appointments to supervisory capacity.
4)	To manage the industrial enterprises in which the Employer is engaged, determ tie the products to be manufactured, the methods >f manufacturing, the schedule of production, the cinds and location of machines and equipment to bt used, the processes of manufacturing and the nature and quality of its product.
shlil
The foregoing enumeration exclude other rights of the Em set forth, the Employer therefor specifically covered by this Agrei the Employer of any of the foregt rights of the Employer shall not i provisions of the Agreement no sistent with any of the terms of th
iti not be deemed to iloyer not specifically retains all rights not ment. The exercise by ing rights or any other i iter any of the specific shall they be incon-s Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 I
STRIKES. STOPPAGES A TO LOCKOUTS
Since the Agreement, provides for the adjustments of disputes, slowdowns or lockouts are prol strike, stoppage or slowdown she shall immediately order the worf If a strike, stoppage, slowdown aggrieved1 party shall1 have the ri mediate hearing before tho A Arbitration on four (4) hours notl
for an orderly method all strikes, stoppages, ibited. If, however, a 'utt occus^ the. Union-ers to return to work, ir lockout occurs, the ;ht to demand an im-i bitrator or Board of ' e..
ARTICLE \ EXISTING PLANT
n
Practices
All existing rules, regulations and shop practices of the Employer now p revailing an 1 not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, shall continue in full force and effect.
The Employer shall have rules, regulations and shop flict with the terms of this
the right to establish new practices which do not con-;reement.
A [i
ARTICB,]
GRIEVANCE PROCEDUli
,EVin
[IE AND ARBITRATION
A. The Union shall deslgt ate a representative (herein called the Union plant repr tentative) for each of the plants of the Employer. Sue! Union representative need not be an employee and may participate In the Investigation of any grievance arising out of this contract. A representative of the Employer shall meet and confer with the Union plant representative at any stage of the grievance procedure.
B. Any complaint, grievan or relating to the provisions interpretation or performance work rates) Stall be present! ‘ 'ng days of the occurrence at jp for adjustment in the
:c or dispute arising out of of this Agreement, or the thereof, (excluding piece _ within twenty (20) work-■vhich time it shall be takeu fallowing manner:
:ed
1st: Between the aggrie
____ted employee and, if he
wishes, the departmental U iion representative, on the Dne hand and the Supervisor of the department, on the other hand. The srpervisor $hal I give nis answer within ;wo (2) working days.
2nd: If the matter is ndt satisfactorily adjusted in itep 1, the Shop Chairman shall present the grievance 'in writing” to the superin endent of his division or riant. The superintendent shall give his answer within three (3) woflting days.
3rd: If the matter is no: itep 2, the Union shall pr ’lent Manager or his desl give his answer within five (j;
4th: if the matter is still Step 3, the National Officas live designated by them ha
ii satisfactorily adjusted in r sent the grievance to the itinated representative shall rT working days.
dot satisfactorily adjusted in of the Union or representa-1 present the grievance in
writing to the Executive of the Hmployer designated by it for this purpose. He shall givq his answer within ten (10) working days.
C. It is agreed that tne nmpipycr shall have accest to the grievance procedure in thi same way as the employee..
D. ARBITRATION
1)	If the Union and the Employer are unable to adjust any complaint, grievance or dispute, as the case may be, in accordance with the Procedures provided in paragraph "B" of this Article] then the matter shall be referred to arbitration. 1
2)	Arbitration shall be by an impartial Arbitrator.
a)	If an Arbitrator cannot be ag eed upon by both parties within one (1) week aft r a request therefore, then the Arbitrator shall be af minted by the Minister of Labour of the Province of Intario.
b)	In the event that either party requests the establishment of a Three-Man Boar of Arbitration, such Board shall consist of a Cl lirman, who shall be agreed upon or appointed in e 'actly the same manner as the impartial Arbitrator ibove provided for, a representative chosen by the I Inion and a representative to a sole arbitrator and should be by mutual agreement of the parties.
c)	The compensation and expens :s of the impartial Arbitrator or the Board of A bitration shall, in all cases, be borne equally by tl e Union and the Employer.
d)	The decision, order, direction, or award of the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitrat on shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Ei iployer, the Union and the employees represented by he Union.
3)	The parties consent that any i apers or notices necessary or appropriate to initiate or continue an arbitration hereunder or to confim, vacate or modify an award, may be served by ref stered mail directly to the last known address of he Employer and the Union.
9
4) The Arbitrator or the Bokrd of Arbitration shall not
have any power to alter visions of this ABreemen visions for any existing decision inconsistent with
any of the terms or pro-or substitute any new pro-irovisions, nor to give any the provisions hereof.
J) Either party may call such arbitration hearing on
Rrive (5) days notic; by registered mail or two ys notice by telegnm to the. other party. The Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration, however, if deemed appropriate by lim or them, may call a hearing on shorter notic:. The parties consent that arbitration hearings shai be held at such place as the Arbitrator or Board o: Arbitration shall designate.
6) In the event that any or either party to arbitration shall default in appearirg before the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration then the proof of the party appearing may be taken a id any decision, order, direction or award based tlereon.
7) The procedure establishes adjustment of disputes st the determination of suet stoppages, lockouts, and as expressly provided oth
c by this Agreement for the Half be exclusive means for disputes, including strikes, icts arising therefrom except invise in this Agreement.
ARTICLE IX DISCHj ,rges
The Employer retains the cause any employee covered ployer shall notify the Unlor ceipt of said notice, the Unic ing days to present a grie without Just cause to the Em >1 not be adjusted by mutual mitted to arbitration for de Shall have the right to subrr arbitration at any time aftc the Union. If the Arbitrator finds that the employee cause, reinstatement snail b ;
right to discharge for just iy this Agreement. The Em-of the discharge. Upon re-n shall have three (3) work-rance of alleged discharge loyer. If the grievance can-tgreement, it shall be sub-ermlnation. The Employer it the disputed discharge to the grievance is made by or< Board of Arbitration s discharged without just ordered, and the payment
Tor back pay may be required m such amount as the circumstances warrant. This Artcle shall not apply to an employee during his probation iry period. Failure of a discharged employee to prompt y leave the premises when so ordered by the Employi r shall in itself constitute just cause regardless of the ustice or merits of the discharge itself. It is understood that the employee has the right to file a grievance with t te Union.
ARTICLE K SENIORiy
A,	Indefinite layoffs (more thail thirty (30) consecutive working days) or recall to wort shall bo governed by length of service. Employees rect led from such layoffs, up lo a period of one, (!) year, s all be entitled to their previous job or a similar job wit} the right to accept 01 decline another job.
B.	A temporary suspension ol or within departments for a pei ic i ing days or less, arising from sit God, breakdowns, lack of materl;' beyond the Company’s control sf layoff for the purpose of this Arti
C.	No new employees arc to operation while employees on sui on layoff or short time.
work within the plant 3 of twenty (20) work-ations such as Acts of l or other emergencies " not be considered a Ic.
be hired for a job or h job or operation are
if til
D.	An employee on Workers’! Compensation (WCB) as a result of an injury or occupational illness shall continue to accumulate plant wide seniority during the period of recovery.
E.	An employee who is on sicklleave shall continue to accumulate plaat wide seniority quring the period of recovery from such illness.
F.	Bumping rights shall onlyl apply within physical plant locations, however recall rights shall npply to locations that arc less than ten (Iq) kilometres apart.
C.	An employee shall lose ms seniority and employment status ana his name siall he removed from the seniority list for any of the fdlowing reasons:
1)	The employee voluntarily quits his job and does not return within twenty-four (24) hour*.
2)	The employee is discharge d for just cause and is not reinstated in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
3)	The employee fails to ritum to work following a layoff or fails to make satisfactory arrangements within five (5) working rays after personal or written notification by registced mail, telegraph or messenger sent by the Compaq y with written notice to his last known address.
4)	'Hie employee is absent foj four (4) consecutive work-
ing days without notifyin planation for his absence every effort to notify his
or offering reasonable ex-The employee will make supervisor (or designate) as
soon as possible for eveqy absence or projected absence.
5)	If the employee overstays |a leave of absence without providing a reasonable explanation for his absence.
(5) An emp'oyce who has bein on layoff due to lack of work and is not recalled by the Company within the following schedule.
Employee Service	Recall Rights
less than one (1) year equal to seniority greater than one (l)year	one (1) year
ARTICLE XI SITTER SENIORITY
In the event of a layoff qf more than one (1) week, the Union reserves the righd to retain a senior steward and a health and safety poison on staff provided that there are p; oductive people storking.
ARTICLEXII
HOURS OF WORK ASD OVERTIME
A.	T
1)	The following paragraphs arel intended to define the normal hours of work shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours per day or week or days of
work per week.
2)	HOURS OF WORK
1.	The normal hours of wor for all day employees shall not exceed eight (8) I ours per day, nor forty (40) hours per week.
2.	The normal hours of worl for all night shift employees shall not exceed ix and one-half (6V4) hours per day, or thirty-tj’O and one-half (32V4) hours per week.
3)	REGULAR SCHEDULED IltbURS OF WORK]
Day shift employees — M< nday through Friday,
Day smtt employees — mc 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. with Vi
hour for lunch.
Night shift employees — M mday through Friday, 4:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. with h hour for lunch.
Watchmen, Firemen and J.nitors will work the hours as scheduled by the r aintenance supervisor. Their normally scheduled hou s will not exceed eight (8) hours per day or forty (4C hours per week. Any change in the above schedule of hours shall be mutually agreed upon between he Company and the Union
B.	OVERTIME
1)	Overtime will be paid at the rale of time and one half (I’/S) for work done outside re regularly scheduled hours with the following excet tions:
1.	All work on Saturdays sh: 11 be paid as overtime at the rate of time and or i half (D/4).
2.	All. work, cm Sundays and >aid Statutory holidays shall be paid as overtime al the rate of double time (2X).
. METHOD OF
Overtime premium pay si lowing manner:
1. In the case of an hoi employee’s established such overtime was wo
CALCULATING OVERTIME PAY:
all be calculated in the fol-
i irly rated employee, at the hourly rate at the time ked.
2.	In the case of a piece ployee’s average earned
3.	Overtime pay for wo; shall be in addition tt> employee is entitled dealing with holiday, amiding of overtime provisions of this
work employee, at the em-' rate for the current week.
k on a designated holiday ) holiday pay to which the pursuant to the provision but there shall be no. pyr-a premium pay under the ct.
zmn rai
D.	In calculating overtime jvork on any job or operation preference shall be givejr to employees regularly employed on such job or operation, and insofar as practicable, such overtime shall be distributed equally.
E,	Existing practice with reference to rest periods shall continue as heretofore unlest otherwise mutually agreed upon by the parties.
PAY
to work on an emergency 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. 12 noon ■ Saturday and 6:00 iteed one (1) hour pay at a urs worked on such emer-time.
if overtime work has been 5 these hours.
F. EMERGENCY CALL Iljl Any employee called in basis, between the hours of Monday through Friday, or a.m. Monday, will be guarani rate of double time. All he gency will be paid at double
Note: This shall not apply previously scheduled auric
ARTICLE XIII
TIME STUDY
LANGUAGE
1)
Production standards will be established on all incentive operations so thjat a qualified, experienced
operator, working at a ptecevyi have earning opportunity of
2)	All wage increases should be
3)	Elemental breakdowns are wi with diagrams where applicant
4)	It is understood that where ar earnings through his own skill increases in personal feeds or quality requirements, it wil being a change in the job contpi
5)	An incentive worker will be terly average when an off-sta
orK incentive rate, will t least 100%. added to the base rate.
i itten down in sequence ,l’e for all jobs studied.
employee Increases his and dibit, including peeds and is within the not be interpreted as mt.
paid his existing quar-ldard condition exists.
ARTICLE ?|IV WAGES
A.	Wages shall be paid in a< cordance with existing timework rates or with existing ; iecework base rates as outlined in Schedule “A”, or pleci work off standard rates as outlined in Schedule “B. Ar y change in individual time or piece rates, shall be macSs by mutual agreement, of the parties. It is understood mat any information in respect to piece work rates whicn is supplied by the Employer to the Union will be kept Confidential between the parties concerned.
The Company and the Uniok recognize that piece work earnings arc based on a 'erage conditions, and under normal circumstances wil not yield a given occupation less than five percent (>%) or more than five percent (5%) in any given week. Whereas a group earns outside these limitations, the C ampany agrees it will review the cmisc and where nece; sary make adjustments.
The Union agrees that these i Jjustments could result in both increased rates or reducer rates.
B.	Rates for new operations, changed operations or changed conditions shall be set 1 y the Employer.
Both parties agree that the ne|v rates should be tried.
15
The Union shall have the fight to request a review of incentive standards. Such reriew shall consist, first, of a rc-check of the Standard it question by the Company engineer within five (i) day of the complaint, then, a review by a Union engineer if desired by the Union.
If the Union then questio s the new rates, they may take up the matter in the forjn of a grievance. The new rate shall be set as soon as practicable using the base rate as outlined in Scheduule '“A” which is applicable to the particular job group for vhich the rate is to be set. In the event the qualification for the job have changed,
a new job grouping will be the Employer and the Union.
mutually decided upon by
In the establishment of develop and promote equity ations, the method of conducfii actual times and will be le’ normal times for each elemei for personal fatigue and de a: ccntage incentive allowance <f (10%) will be applied in cc time for the operation, there j; standard time. The above ptr all incentive operations,
w standards, in order to earnings among ail oper-ing time studies will record yelled or rated to develop t of the job. An allowance ys and the standard per-I not less than ten percent mposvte form to the total jy, changing same to total ncipal will be allowed for
C. The Employer and tlv Union agree that a new operation, changed operatia, or a changed condition may temporarily affect an enployee’s earnings while in the process of learning and Adjusting thereto. The Employer therefore agrees that in the absence of a retrainings incentive he will pal to an employee thus affected ids average hourly rati as defined in Section "H”, until a new piece rate is fixid in accordance with sub-paragraph "B” o f Article V. Further, the said average hourly rate of the affected etiployee shall be guaranteed for a period to be mutually ajreed upon. In the alternative, the Employer may use ifretraining incentive which shall be so fixed as to enabt the employee reasonably to maintain the earnings lcvil as outlined in Schedule “A” for the job grouping which he is in the process of learning and adjusting lo tto new operation, changed operation or changed cnnditicn.
16
D.
1.	A temporary transfer is a transfer not intended to exceed thirty (30) days.
2.	Upon agreement with the U tion a temporary transfer may be extended.
3 An employee who is temporarily transferred will be paid the greater of:
A)	the time work rate
B)	their average hourly rite
C)	actual piece work earrings'
A An employee who is permanently transferred by the Company, will be paid:
A)	the time work rate
B)	their average hourly program can be set.
5.	An employee transferred to his right to return to any of an opening occurs but in n< case until thirty (30) worked days have elapsed. Ii any event he must bo the most capable as well asj being the most senior person applying for the job.
6.	If an employee is permanently transferred to another job or operation, the emplo; ec shall be guaranteed the off standard rate or his iverage rate, whichever is higher, for the Frill training period and a diminishing bonus for a second full t aining period as to enable the employee to reasons ply maintain his earning level.
rate until n retraining
nother job relinquishes his previous jobs, until
The employee will receive written notice at least five (5) days before the permanent transfer is effective.
7.	It is understood that where passible the junior person on the job will be transferreqfirst.
E.	MINIMA
Tho minimum starting rate far piecework employees shall be the starting rate fbr'Catebory “A” lime workers.
17
F.	Employees who report tor work at their regular starting, time in the absence o notice from the Employer to the contrary, or al such ott er hours designated by the Employer shall be paid their established time or piece rate earnings for all work performed between the hour they report for work and the hour that they are dismissed, but in no event shall they be paid for less than four (4) hours in the case uf workers whose regular scheduled daily hours are eight (8) and three (3) hours in case of a worker whose regularly scheduled hours are less than eight (8) hours.
This clause shall not apply ure, fire or other causes ove no control. Failure of other work shall be considered cau: has no control only if an e could not forseo and he ha train and provide relief worke
Except that employees si hourly rate while they are work or not until such time a
in the event of power fail-which the Employer has employees to report for over which the employer nergency arises which he taken adequate steps to
i.
ihldl be paid their average n the plant whether they they are told to go home.
G.	An employee paid on a quired to wait for work shall age hourly rate. Any employe: wait for work shall on each s :u immediate supervisor, or designs and end of such waiting pej time shall cover only such t:
In the event of machine bevond the employee’s contr chine, an employee shall punph ail waiting time in excess of utes per day. The supervisor as available.
piece rate basis who is re-e compensated at his aver-: who finds it necessary to iparate occasion, notify his nate, both at the beginning lod. Payment for waiting tne following notification.
Ireakdown or other causes >1 in regard to their ma-and be compensated for total of fifteen (15) min-must be notified as soon
When a machine which hafc broken down and is not repaired by the end of the stlift and is subsequently repaired at the beginning of thd same operator's next shift a second (2nd) waiting periodl will not be added for that repair.
18
The Employer may transfer sifch employee to another job or machine during waiting I time on which job or machine the employee shall demonstrate reasonable effort.
H.	Average hourly rate shall mean the rate paid to piece workers working on a tim basis where the terms of this contract call Tor this ra e. It is the employee's straight time average earned rat: for the last available period not including time workei at the minimum guarantee or off standard rate, this rate being adjusted to give effect to any change in a rning on the operation (resulting from any adjustment if piece work rates after commencement of the period).
ARTICLE XV
TECHNOLOGICAI CHANGE
Any employee who has atta whose job ceases to exist becaus< or automation shall he grantei plant wide bumping rights according to their seniority and job skills. Those employees who do not wish to rights the Company will make to re-assign any employee displaced. The employee will he offered any jobs which are t vailable at the time of displacement or any job which s known to be coming available in the near future prot dins he is able to per-
form the new lob. Where then available position, employees w based on seniority. Employees quarterly average until a mutually agreed retraining program can be established.
ned seniority standing of a change in method
is more than one (1) II be given preference will be paid their last
ARTICLE J VI JOB POSTI fG
A.	When additional time wo when a time work job become shall post such jobs for two C designated bulletin boards.
k jebs are created or vacant, the Employer ) working days on all
19
B.	If there is more tnan one (1) relatively equally qualified applicant for a job posting, then plant seniority snail be the determining factoi.
C.	The Company shall pos the successful applicant’s name within one (1) week olf the two (2) day posting period.
D.	A successful applicant I cannot apply for another posted job until twelve (12) |months from the date of transfer.
E.	Any employee who wishes to change piece work jobs should first discuss their vishes with their supervisor and then place their request with the personnel department. The Company will consider these requuests when
an opening occurs.
ARTICfct XVII VACATIONS
A.	ELIGIBILITY
1)	All employees will be el pay as per “Schedule E”.
2)	The third (3rd) week of tween Christmas and New
gible for a vacation with
'acalion shall be taken be-Years.
Employees eligible for forr (4), five (5), six (6) or
seven (71 weeks vacation in the following manner, will be posted during the
work week in January. A choose their vacation time ployer reserves the right necessary on a seniority b:
weeks vacation may select three (3) weeks pay in li
shall select certain weeks List of eligible employees first week in January. All
eligible employees will t e posted during the first
II eligible employees must by February 1st. The Em-:o make adjustments when sis.
Employees eligible for fwi (5), six (6), or seven (7)
to take one (1), two (2) or :u of vacation time. This
option must be exercised qy May 31st of the vacation year.
2C
3)	An employee laid off for mole than thirteen (13) lull working weeks or absent f< r forty (40) or more working days during the vac >tlon year shall be entitled to receive as vacation four percent (4%), six percent (6%), eight percent (f %), ten percent (10%), twelve percent (12%), or foi rteen percent (14%) of his total earnings from July 1st in one (l) year to June 30th of the following j ear, according to what he woulct be entitled to in r gard to length of service. A working week means i period of five (5) full working days between Sunda ' and Saturday of that week. An employee absent fi am work due to an ap-prooved Workers’ Compensat m claim will have such absence considered as time forked for determining vacation entitlement.
4)
Anyone receiving six percen have two percent (2%) reser 'ed week of vacation at Christmas
iy of the Company be-cceivo as vacation pay
Any person leaving the empl tween vacation periods shall four percent (4%), six percejit (6%), eight percent (8%), ten percent (10%), tw :lve percent (12%) or fourteen percent (14%) of hi earnings from the beginning of the current vacati n year to the date of
termination depending on the cation he may have received
(6%) or more shall for the third (3rd)
category, less any va->reviously in that peri-
od, to which he would be etig Me according to length
of service. A vacation year i 1st in any year to June 30th
U. METHOD OF CALCULATION OF
VACATION PAY
the period from July i the following year.
1)	For the piece worker, the ho be the individual empbyee’s defined in Article XIV, Sectii
2)	For a time worker, the hourl
rly vacation rate shall iverage hourly rate as U”.
vacation rate shall be
the regular rate to which the i dividual employee was
entitled on his job as of Jui year.
e 30th in the current
21
3) A week of vacation pay shall then be the individual employee’s hourly vacati n rate multiplied by the regularly scheduled numb ‘.r of weekly hours of that employee.
C.	VACATION PERIOD
The vacation period shall tje such period between July 1st and August 30th as the Employer shall designate unless otherwise mutually an reed upon. This provision does not apply to the third (3rd), fourth (4tn), fifth (Jth), sixth (6th) or seventh (7th) week of vacation.
Regulations concerning a third (3rd), fourth (4th), fifth (Jth), sixth (6th) or seventh [7th) week of vacation are outlined in paragraph “A” Sqction 2, of this Article.
D.	TIME OF PAYMENT
Vacation pay as hereinabove provided shall be paid immediately preceding the vacation period. To be eligible for such advance payment, hiwever, the employee shall be continuously at work the Iwo (2) working weeks immediately preceding the vacation period. Excepted will be such employees who can justify their absence by a doctor’s certificate, in which went he must have worked within the four (4) weeks ,ori ar to the start of the vacation period. In the event this; the employee is not continuously employed as hereir provided, he shall receive his vacation pay upon subsequent completion of four (4) continuous weeks of work.
E.	INTERVENING HOLIDAYS
If a paid holiday occurs an employee has fulfilled tl statutory holiday pay he shal day off with pay in lieu of day to be mutually agreed ui.
If a paid holiday occurs dj the Company and the Um’oi which day the plant will be
during a vacation week and e regulations in respect to be entitled to an additional the statutory holiday, such ion with the employee.
iring the shut down period will mutually agree upon closed.
ARTICLE X VIR
LEAVE OF AB
5ENCE
A. Leave of absence will be upon request if the employees performing his regular job or a ate family is seriously ill. Disal be certified by a doctor's certified personal physician, if required, pense, or the Company may ri attend an independent medical doctor, at the Company’s expen the Deriod of disability. Leave o illness shall include leave of abs subject to the following conditlor v
1)	Employees with less than six y-of service shall not be granted
2)	Employees with more than days of service, but less that shall be granted a leave of : ness (not to include matemi mum of six (6) months w guaranteed for the first thre of similar nature guaranteec months.
ranted to an employeo ill and disabled from hiember of his immedi-tjlity due to illness shall te from the employee's . at the Company's ex-c quire the Employee to xamfnation by a local e, at some time during absence on account of nee it maternity cases,
•five (65) worked days a leave of absence.
sixty-five (65) worked one (1) year of service bsence for personal ill-y leave) up to a maxi* th previous job to be (3) months, and a job for the next three (3)
3)	Employees with nine (9) i,of service but less
than one (I) year of serviceIshall be granted maternity leave up to a maximumlof six (6) months with preference given in any subsequent hiring to any similar job.	1
4)	Employees with one (1) year jjof service or more shall be granted for their first (Is:) maternity leave, while in the employment of the er ployer, a leave up to a maximum of one (1) year, vith previous Job guaranteed foe the. first six (6) o onths and a .preference given in any subsequent hirir g for the second six (6) months to any similar job.
5)	Employees with more than s x (6) months of service, shall be granted leave of al sence for illness in the immediate family. For the pprpose of this provision,
23
immediate family shall bt common-law spouse (but employee’s parents, up t months with previous job
the employee’s spouse ot 4ot both), children, and the a maximum of three (3) piaranteed.
tc
6) Employees with more th| shall be granted leave of i" only (not to include matei job guaranteed for the fin of similar nature gaurant months, and any job there
A. The initial leave of at three (3) months or more of litre
sence for employees with
____	_ service shall not be more
than three (3) months. This 'eave may be extended for
additional periods of one (1) mum of one (1) year.
u one (1) year of service absence for personal illness : nity leave). With previous 11 six (6) months and a job it :ed for the second six (6) ifter.
month each up to a maxi-
B.	It is understood that 1 elves of absence and extensions not herein provided ma:r under certain exceptional circumstances be necessary.. heaves of absence and extensions under such exceptioial circumstances shall be subject to agreement between the Employer and the Union.
C.	Any employee who has been absent on account of sickness, upon return to wormust be physically able to perform the work available. The Employer may demand a doctor’s certificate! as evidence of physical capacity.
D.	In case a job or operation has been abolished during an employee’s absenci, such provisions shall apply to re-employment as woi Id have applied had such employee been at work af thp time the job or operation was abolished.
E.	Leave of absence of up loss of seniority shall be gra ployees provided they are em ments within the plant who 1 representatives of the Union, conventions, conferences an<. Such employees shall be reifi:
to two (2) weeks without ited for up to six (6) em-iloyed 'in different depart-ave been elected to act as or as delegates to Union other similar functions., stated to their respective
24
previous jobs, operations or nfichines upon return to work.
In the event of a leave oi uiuro than two (2) weeks, hut not more than one (1) ye tr the Union agrees to limit the number of employees members provided they are emp ments within the plant. In this
in such leave to two (2) oyed in different depart-case the employee will continue to accumulate plant vide seniority during the
e may be extended by 'ear at a time.
period of the leave. This lea' mutual agreement up to one (1)
In both cases two (2) weeks sjdvance notice in writing must be made to the Company
F. Any employee who is gri under this Article shall be givei thereof by the Employer, whic i dude the dates of the beginning of absence. A copy of said auth the Union within one (1) week leave of absence. Employees on an extension should make appli prior to the expiration date of sence.
t ited
a leave of absence a written authorization authorization shall In-and the end of the leave irization shall be sent to of the granting of the eave of absence wishing i ation for such extension he granted leave of ab-
ARTICLE fax STATUTORY H ILIDAYS
A. Employees, upon compl worked days or three (31 month; comes first) shall be paid for t statutory holidays, subject to the forth in this Article:
Floating Holiday	I oating Holiday
New Year’s Day	C ivlc Holiday
Good Friday	L lbour Day
Victoria Day	1 hanksgiving Day
Dominion Day	CJhristmas Day
Boxing Day
Floating Holidays-to be artreed upon mutually by October 15th of each precedingT"»r
tion of sixty-five (65) employment (whichever ie following eleven (11) following provisions set
25
B. Employees shall be paid 'or each of the above specified holidays. Should any cf the holidays fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the day < Jebrated as such shall be considered the holiday.
C. In the case of time rati such holiday shall be the ind hourly rate times the regular In the case of piece rate cm holiday shall bo the individual ly rate as defined in Article regular scheduled hours of wi ployee who would have been scheduled by the Employer t the regular scheduled hours which the holiday occurs, such his holiday pay the amount ceived had he worked such sch
:4d
I. employees, the pay for vidual employee’s current scheduled hours of work, jloyees, the pay for each employee’s average hour-/. Section "H”, times the rk. In the case of an em-permanently and formally work more or less than of work on the day on employee shall receive as i pay he would have re-idulcd hours.
to
D. 1) An employee who is reasonable cause on the work day after a holiday
< f
tbsent from work without work day before or the shall not be entitled to
holiday pay. Reasonable cjiuse shall include the following:
a) Personal illness of the emtjloyee or serious illness in
his immediate family. The doctor’s certificate or othe
b)	Death in the immediate fan iiy of the employee.
c)	ucuMd absence by the Em iloyer for any reason.-cl) Absence from work because work is unavailable.
In the event that two (2) or more consecutive holidays arc being observed an employ :e who fails to qualify for payment on only the day imr lediateiy preceding or immediately following the holidi ys shnll lose payment for one (1) of the number of pal l holidays being observed.
2) An employee who is abs< nt from work during the entire week in which the. 1 ollday occurs shall not be entitled to holiday pay uvless such absence is occasioned by personal itinqss certified by a doctor’s certificate or layoff.
Employer may request a adequate proof thereof.
26
3) An employee absent from vJork because of personal illness certified by a doctor’s certificate or layoff shall be emitted to holiday pay unless such employee is ill or laid off for three (3) fiQl consecutive weeks as follows:
u)
M
The entire week immediately preceding the week in which such paid holiday occi rs; and
The entire week during whi< curs; and
h such paid holiday oc-
4) Any statutory holidays will be paid less any income received.
ARTICLE KX BEREAVEIV ENT
A. All employees shall be en three (3) working days off with the immediate family. Immediar
AstllA# VHAtnaP foln
employee’s father, mother, fath r-in-law, mother-in-law,
spouse, previous spouse, childrer children, sister-in-law, brother-im son-in-law, daughter-in-law, stt and grandchild.
itled to a maximum of pay for bereavement in family to include the
sister, brother, adoptee iaw, grandparent-in-law, ^children, grandparent
For the purpose of clarification, the employee’s inv mediate family shall include au common-law relative: and step-relatives, but it does nol include previous in-law
relatives.
B,	In the case of out of prov nee death, bereavement pay will be four (4) days, wit out loss of earnings in order to arrange for and at end funeral.
C,	If a death occurs in the fa lily and the employee is unable to attend because of d stance and/or the employee is advised of the deat after the funeral has taken place, they will be grante leave of absence ,with pay for the day of the funeral or the day after notification has been received.
D.	An employee requesting a leave of absence undei Clause A. or B. shall submit evj cnce satisfactory to the
27
Company if requested in ord^i leave of absence.
E. In order to qualify for ployee must have completed 1
to receive payment foi
bereavement pay, an em is probationary period.
ARTICLE JURY
DUT
If an employee is to be abs nt from work because he is called for Jury Duty or whd is summoned and reports as a Crown Witness as preser bed by applicable Ontario law, the Employer will reimb irsc the employee for the difference between his average hourly rate for the time he is away and the amount the court pays him for appearing.
In order to qualify an employee must supply the Employer with the necessary receipts showing tne amount paid to the employee by the court
XXI
Y
ARTICLE) XXII EMPLOYEE WELFARE A. INSURANCE'
I) An employee qualifies tot the benefits outlined in Schedule |!C" after completing six (6) months ol employment.
Effective in 1990, the employees will qualify aftei three (3) months of employ nent.
2) The Employer agrees to as cost of the employees’ Gro and Accident Insurance as
mme full payment of the ip Life and Group Health outlined in Schedule “C”.
31
Effective April I, 1987 the full cost of the Ontario (O.HJ.P.). Rates in effect eligible employees and/or pendents. Thereafter any shared between the Employ
Employer will assume the Health Insurance Plan as April 1, 1987, for all their spouses and/or de-ncrease in rates will be er and the employee. The
28
employees share shall be limited to a maximum contribution of;	1
$1.00 per month single coverage
$2.00 per month fanlly coverage
4)	The Company will maintain in Schedule "C" for all empl of absence except maternity 1
5)	The Employer will maintain ance benefits for a maximii employees on leave of absent i
6)	All employees who retire the Amalgamated Clothing W shall bo entitled to the Grou > age as outlined in Schedule under the Ontario Medical Se as outlined in paragraph throe
full benefits as defined ryees who are on leave ave.
full coverage of insur-n of one (1) year for for maternity. i mder the provision of jrkers Retirement Fund Life Insurance cover-‘ C’’ and also coverage vice Insurance Program (3) of the section.
U. RETIREMENT
All employees shall retire at ate sixty-five (65). However, working extension may bt granted on a year to year basis provided agreement hi i been reached between the Company and the Union as o their working status. Only under exceptional circumst nces will extensions be granted after the employee’s seventieth (70th) birthday.
C. RETIREMENT FUND
The Employer agrees to pay Iwo and three quarters percent (2Vt %) of all earnings aimed (less vacation pay and statutory holiday pay)) oft all employees in the Kitchener, Waterloo and Toronti plants, into a Pension Fund for those employees. The memorandum of Agreement. Declaration of Trust and [Regulations thereunder as signed by the parties on February 22nd, 1958 shall henceforth apply, except as amerped or superseded from time to time thereafter.
Effective April 1, 1991 the Employer agrees to pay three percent (3%) of-all eamin® accrued (less-vacation
29
pay. and statutory holiday pay; ot all employees In the Kitchener, Waterloo and Toronto plants into the Pension Fund for those employees.
ARTICLE XXIU PAY EQ JITY
The Union and Company . meeting the legislation regard! i|
grec to work together In g Pay Equity.
Further, it is agreed that the Coopers and Lybrand Job Evaluations system as devclcped for the approval industry will bo the method usee.
ARTILliiaaiy HEALTH AN > SAFETY
It is the intent of both parti s to this Collective Agreement to fully cooperate in pr< moting Health and Safety in the workplace, and in con plying with all applicable government legislation and tl e Company's Health and Safety rules.
A joint labour/management Health and Safety Committee consisting of managemmt and Union representatives shall be maintained for tl ie purpose of:
a)	Making constructive recommendations to the Company and the employees for the improvement of Safety and Health conditio is and attitudes.
b)	Maintaining and monitorir g Company and employee compliance of all safety r|ules, regulations, programs and procedures.
c)	Conducting an inspection tjf the physical condition of the workplace by the Unio 1 appointed member of the joint committee and the Cimpany appointed member of the Joint committee pn a monthly basis during regular shift hours.
d)	Effective October 2, 1989 all employees working in shipping, receiving and warehousing operations will be required, as a conditio 1 of employment, to wear safety shoes approved by the Company.
30
Permanent, full-time employlcs who are required to wear safety shoes and who n ve completed their probationary period will be elij ble for an annual subsidy of $25.00. This subsidy will be paid on the anniversary date of each contra t year or, in the case of new employees, at the complltion cf their probationary period.
ARTICLE UTILITY WO*l
When new employees are bii be advised of their initial job worker who performs the same will be reclassified. When perm; able, the most senior utility w first opportunity to fill the vac; utility workers shall be given to t
dail ’
Wages shall be calculated ers. One (I) day will not reflect in the case ofcalculating their
XV
KERS
:d for utility they will and duties. A utility ab for three (3) months : tent jobs become avail-irker will be given the ncy. A monthly list of ie Union.
for utility piece work-on another day except dllartcrly average.
ARTICLE xptvi
MAINTENANCE 01] EARNINGS A) Existing M.O.E.'s
In consideration of adjusting the base rate, existing M.O.E.’s as of ratification will be reduced by the converted piece rate differdnee between the 1988 base rate and the 1989 adjusted base rate.
D)	Future M.O.E.’s
In the case of re-engineenna or similar changes in rates, new M.O.E.”s will t i established for these operations and existing opera ors. The M.O.E. will be reviewed to ensure that the employee will not lose any take-home pay, nor are they over compensated due to this conversion. Suit tble adjustments, if required, will be made and the employee’s productivity will be taken into account.
31
C)	All M.O.E.'a will be subject to reduction by the “Red Circle Rates” provisions of this Agreement.
D)	An M.O.E, is a personalised job bonus, which is not transferable: that is, the M.O.E. disappears when an employee terminates or permanently transfers at their request or is permanently transferred for longer than six (6) months, as the rault of a layoff (layoff notices issued in the plant).
An employee who formerly had an M.O.E. who is transferred as the result df automation shall receive any existing M.O.E. on pe job to which the employee was transferred to.
E)	New operations and/or nojv operators do not qualify for an M.O.E.
F)	General increases are not added to M.O.E.’s.
tei
G) Once an operation has not be re-engineered again atlon, a changed operation, Also, a check study will cc In the original re-engineeri 11
en se-engineered, it will unless there is a new oper-, or a changed condition, cur if there was an error g.
d on a job or operation, h the employee(s) involved e to explain the M.O.E.
agreement will be given ana the Union.
tie
H) When M.O.E. is establisljei the employer will meet wi and a Union representatibi agreement and a copy of t to the affected employee^
RED-CIRCLE RATES
Timeworkere whose wage date is greater than the top rate of their assigned category] shall nave their rates red-circled.	'
An employee whose wage fate is red-circled shall receive a minimum of 50% of any general increase until the red-circle rate is completel i depleted.
A piece worker who receive an M.O.E. shall have the M.O.E. red-circled.
Whenever general increases I are granted to piece work employees the following adjustment will be made until
the M.O.G. (subsidy) has been completely deleted. The full general increase will be aqaed to the piece rate, and the M.O.E. will be reduced [by no more than 30% of the piece rate increase.
ARTICLE XXVII
TERM OF AGREEMENT
.This Agreement shall be bindin ! upon the parties hereto and their successors in interes and shall be effective upon the date hereof and shall r main in fulLiorca-anA effect until the 31st tlnv of~KT rch 1992. it shall be
automatically renewed from yi ar to year thereafter unless on or before the .list day c f January, 1992 or any year thereafter, notice in writfnj, by registered mail, is given either party to the other i arty of their desire to propose changes in this A green e it or of their intention to terminate the same, in eithc r of which event this Agreement shall terminate upon| the 4th day of April, 1992.
FOR THE COMPANY Larry Schwantz Jack Gordon Erwin Kamenz
FOR THE UNION Don Krall Dorothy Schade Pam Rossiar Judy Lackner Rhonda Laughlin Margaret Desrosiers Mike Perishich Rank Aquino
SCHEDULE“A”
TIME WORK CATEGORIES
Category ”A”
-Boxing (odds) Start
-Final Touch up	End Prob 6 Month 9 Month
category “It"	
-Mender	start
-Sample Maker End Prob	
-Service and	6 Month
Match up	9 Month
Category‘'C'’
-Printing Labels Start
	End Prob. 6 Month 9 Month
Category “D"	
-Janitors	Start
-Match up	End Prob.
Cutter	6 Month 9 Month 12 Month
Category “F.”	
—Service	start
(Cutting Room) End Prob.	
-M/C Service	6 Month
(Parts)	9 Month 12 Month
ir. 3/89 Apr. 2/90 Apr. 1/91
5.35	5.70	6.05
5.80	6.15	6.50
6.35	6.70	7.05
6.94	7.29	7.64
5.35	5,70	6.05
5.90	6.30	6.70
6.45	6.85	7.25
7.04	7.44	7.84
5,85	6.20	6.55
6.35	6.70	7.05
6.85	7.20	7.55
7,40	7.75	8.10
6,35	6.70	7.05
6.75	7.10	7.45
7.10	7.45	7.80
7.J0	7.85	8.20
7.84	8.19	8.54
6.60	6,95	7.30
6,95	7.30	7.65
7.30	7.65	8.00
7,65	8.00	8.35
7.99	8.34	8.69
3s
	SCHEDULE“A"			
Category “F^		r.J/»	Apr. 2/9(	Apr.1/91
-Packaging	Start	6.85	7.20	7.55
(Boxes)	End Prob.	7.2J	7.60	7.95
	6 Month	7,60	7.95	8.30
	Y Month	8.00	8,35	8.70
	12 Month	8.35	8.70	9.05
Category “G”				
— Warehouse-	Start	7,55	7.70	8.05
person	End Prob.	7.85	8.15	8.50
-Service	6 Month	8,15	8.65	9.00
(Packaging)	Y Month	8,45	9.05	9.40
	12 Month	8.80	9.34	9.69
Category “G I”				
-Receiver	Start	7.35	7.70	8.05
-Shader	End. Prob.	7.80	8.15	8.50
	6 Month	8.30	8.65	9.00
	Y Month	8.70	9.05	9.40
	12 Month	8.99	9.34	9.69
Category"!!’’				
-Engineer	Start	7.85	8.20	8.55
(4th Class)	End Prob.	8.20	8.55	8.90
-Building	6 Month	8.55	8.90	9.25
Maintenance	9 Month	8.90	9.25	9.60
	12 Month	9.25	9.60	9.95
	18 Month	9.60	9.95	10.30
Category “I”				
-Cravat Cutter	Start	8.35	8.70	9.05
	End Prob.	8.80	9.15	9.50
	6 Month	9.25	9.60	9.95
	9 Month	9.70	10.0s	10.40
	12 Month	0.15	10.50	10.85
	18 Month	4	10.99	11.34
35
SCHEDULE “A'
Category “J”	
-Electronic	Start
Technician	End Prob. 6 Month 9 Month 12 Month 18 Month
Category “K”	
-Pattern Maker	Start
-Marker Maker	End Prob. 6 Month 9 Month 12 Month 18 Month
Air. 3/8*	Apr. 2/90	Apr. 1/91
8.85	9,20	9.55
9.25	9.60	9.95
9,65	10.00	10,35
10.05	10.40	10,75
10.47	10.82	11.17
10.92	11,27	11.62
9.35	9.70	10.05
9.80	10.15	10.50
10.25	10.60	10.95
10.70	11.05	11.40
11.15	11.50	11.85
11.66	12.01	12,36
Lead hands are paid $,25/hour ahove their rate.
36
SCIIEDUl A'
PIECEWORK! RATES
Base rate structure and job gi pings for all piecework operations as defined in Artie KIV, paragraph “A” of this Agreement.
(a) Base rate	structure Was	A 3/89 Apr. 2/90		Apr. 1/91
Group A	5.97	.45	6.80	7.15
B	6.04	.65	7.00	7.35
C	6.11	00	7.20	7.55
D	6.33	.05	7.40	7.75
E	6.50	.25	7.60	7.95
F	7.34	.69	8.04	8.39
G	8.34	.69	9.04	9.39
SCHEDULE “A”
(b) PIECEWORK JOB DESCRIPTION BY CROUP Group A Job
S rt Fuse Collar Fuses Collar Fuse Collar Envelope Turn and Press Cuffs Trim Embroidery Pocket Press Over Pocket Press Front Clip Front (slope)
Service After Joining Pencil Mark Front Pinner (plaquets only)
Point Clip Collars Collar Pragi Examine Packaging Bag
Stamp Band
Tie-up Parts From Cutting SlHmo Yoke (Auto)
Stamp Band (Auto)
■•Crimp Pocket Flap
Waterloo
Face Turn Tie
Face/Seam Press
Turn Tie
Press Tie
Bag Tie
Final Examine
Stuffing
Price Tag Ties
Bar Tack Ties
Clip End
Pull End
Clip Thread
Assemble Ready Knot
Cross Tip
38
SCHEDULfe“A
Group B Job
Tack Stas Collar Auto Run Collar Crimp Band Tack Label on Band Insert Auto Band Button Hole Rand Button Sew Band Tack Label on Yoke Press and Button-up Fold
Button Hole Cuff
Button Sew Cuff
Jet Sew Front
Tack Slecvo
Button Hole Sleeve
Button Sew Sleeve
Embroidery
Jet Sew Front
Button Hole Front
Button Sew Front
Hem Pockets
Over Cast
Examine and Bag
Auto Hem Cuff
Auto Run Cuff
Auto Topstitch Cuff
Auto Stitchdown Sleeve Plauuet
Waterloo
Lewis Label Auto Face Sew Llba
Join Ties Durkopp Label
3?
SCHEDULE “A
Group C Job
Turn and Press Collar *Au!o Pocket Set Manual Run Collar Yoking Joining
Hem Cuff Manual Run Cuff Manual Top Stitch Cuff Manual Run-on Binding (sleeve) Run-on Delxue Plaquet Stitch Down Plaquet (sleeve Hem Short Sleeve Hem Bottom (blended Top Stitch Fronts and Racks
croup d
Job
‘Run on Front Plaquet Top Stitch Collars Manual Pocket Set Sleeve and Seam Collar Set
Cuff Set
Single Needle Run-on Single Needle Stitchdown Single Needle Felling
Waterloo
Manual Sew on Facing fine) Centralise
Group E Job
Spread Linings Click Linings Clicker
AO
SCHEDULE “A’
Croup F
Job
M/C Spreader
Group G Job
M/C Cutter
RETROACTIVE pay
All active employees on the date of ratification will belaid $.35 per hour bock tb and including April
ALL JOBS GENERALLY April 3, 1989	! .35	per
April 2, 1990	^.35	per
April 1,1991	s!35	oer
hour
hour
hour
41
SCHEDUL is "B”
XI
Agreement under Article wage rates for piece work (same as category "A” — Tirft
V, minimum starting employees are as foil Workers):
and
ows
April 3, 1989	$5.35/hour
April 2, 1990	$J.70/hour
April 1, 1991	$6.05/hour
SHIFT BONUS	INCREASE
The current shift premium	of $.10 per hour
be increased on April 1,1991	o $.20 per hour.
FLOOR RATE FOfc PIECEWORK	
Group A-D	
April 3, 1989	$6.61
April 2, 1990	$6.96
April 1, 1991	$7.31
Group E-H	
April 3, 1989	$7.69
April 2, 1990	$8.04
April 1, 1991	$8.39
42
SCHEDULE
“C”
Agreement under Article X: til, the following is the outline of the various Insuran e coverages effected by the Company for the benefit if all employees in the bargaining unit and the eligible lependents filter the cm* ployee has completed six (6) mo iths of employment.
Effective April 2, 1990 empl yees will be eligible for benefits upon completion of the] probationary period (65 working days).
FOR EMPLOYEES ONLY
I)	Group Life Insurance
-payable as a death benefi Retirees — Single Coveragi
— Dependent Cove bae
$10,000.00 $ 1,000.00 $ 2,000.00
2)	Weekly Benefit Programme
Maximum 15 weeks
66% % of earnings as per laj It quarterly average up to the U.I.C, maximum.
3)	Group Medical and Surgical Entrance
All employees	OHIP Schedule
4)	Group Hospitalization
Ail employees	Standard Ward Care
under OHSC Rules
FOR DEPENDENTS ONLY
1)	Group Hospitalization — Sianaard Ward Care under
OHSC Rules
2)	Group Medical and Surgical Iniurance —
OHIP Schedule	1
(These benefits apply only whei the employee is considered the head of thp household.)
DRUG PLAN
The Employer agrees to supply a rug plan, which will provide a maximum payment of 81 % of all prescription drugs.
SCHEDUlfE “D”
Employees who as of June 30, have completed the re qulred number of years of service will be entitled to th< following weeks of vacation wjth pay:
Number of Years Completed
Less than 1 year
1	year
2	years 5 years
10 years 20 years 30 years 3J years
r.umber of weeks vacation 4 % of earnings 2 Weeks — 4% of earning
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks ‘ weeks
( weeks weeks
Effective April 2, 1990 employees who as of their anniversary date of their latefct hiri shall be entitled to holidays as above.
Effective April 1, 1991 the following weeks of vacation apply.
1? years	5	weeks
25 years	S	weeks
30 years	J	weeks
letter of Intent
FLEXinufry
The Company and the Unto . important to provide more con piece work employees whose fashion related, therefore, durin : ment the Company and the developing a method to provide
have agreed that it is inuous employment foi jqbs are seasonal and/or the life of this Agree-l lion will work toward i lls.
itain the following elc-1 e limited to these ele-
This method will generally co ments but will not necessarily ments.
1)	Employees will be trained on secondary job,
2)	Employees will be selected on there are insufficient volunteer! least senior will be designated,
3)	During the retraining program the same earning opportunity.
4)	After the retraining program hi employee shall have an equal ity to generate earnings.
voluntary basis unless s in which case the
n employee shall have (Quarterly average)
s been completed, the ir increased opportun-
5) An employee has the right to his primary job at the fiTSt op; allowed forty (40) hours at to the original job providing for sixty (60) or more worked
e transferred back to ijortunity, and shall be age to readjust back secondary job was days.
av, ri t e
45