UNITE
HI
LU
DC
O
btr s i
(UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES)
Local 459
AND
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN CANADA
Flic
H li
DECEMBER 15, 1997 Vf* « to
[CEMBER 14, 2000

UNITE
(UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES)
LOCAL 459
505 - 138 PORTAGE AVE., EAST WINNIPEG, MANITOBA R3C OAI TELEPHONE: (204) 942 - 7454 FAX: (204) 949 - 0759
PLEASE BE SURE TO REGISTER WITH THE HEALTH FUND SEE PAGE 34
PLEASE NOTIFY THE, UNION OFFICE IF YOU HAVE CHANGED YOUR NAME OR ADDRESS OR IF YOU ARE LEAVING YOUR PRESENT PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT
INDEX
Article No.	Page
1.	Definitions..................................... 4
2.	Recognition..................................... 5
3.	Access To Plants................................ 6
4.	Procedure In Application For Employment
or Membership In The Association............... 6
5.	Conditions Of Employment........................ 7
6.	Prohibitions.................................... 9
7.	Transfer From One Operation To Another.......... 9
8.	Settlement Of Disputes..........................11
9.	Hours Of Work And Overtime......................14
10.	Factory Interruptions..........................18
11.	Rest Period....................................18
12.	Lay-Offs And Temporary Help....................18
13.	Discharge And Discipline.......................19
14.	Holiday With Pay...............................20
15.	Vacations With Pay.............................21
16.	Wage Rates And Related Factors.................24
17.	Cutters........................................25
18.	Establishing Piecework Prices (Line	System)	...26
19.	Leave Of Absence...............................27
20.	Underpayment Or Overpayment To	Workers	...30
21.	Miscellaneous..................................30
22.	Technological Change..........................v32
23.	Duration And Revision Of Agreement.......A...3Z J
24.	The UNITE LOCAL 459 and GARMENT MANUFACTURERS HEALTH, WELFARE
AND PENSION FUND, INC...............34
25.	Workplace Safety And Health Program.44
26	HARASSMENT AND DISCRIMINATION......46
27.	Binding Clause......................46
2
AGREEMENT made in duplicate as and from the 15th day of December 1996 BETWEEN:
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES, LOCAL 459
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
OF THE FIRST PART,
AND:
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN CANADA
(hereinafter called the “Association”) composed of several Manufacturers who now execute or may hereafter execute this Agreement and who become parties hereto (hereinafter called the “Manufacturers”)
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS the Manufacturers are engaged in the manufacture of overalls, shirts, playsuits, pants, wind-breakers, sports apparel, and other manufactured products, and
WHEREAS the Union is composed of Workers engaged in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will be, from time to time, employed by the Manufacturers in their factories.
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
3
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
1.01	In this Agreement:
(a)	“Average Hourly Rate” or Average Hourly Earnings” means the average hourly rate calculated on any qualified earnings over a period of six (6) months immediately preceding the application of the average hourly rate or earnings. In the case of a Worker with less than six (6) months employment, the period of time up to the six (6) month period shall be used to determine the six (6) month average.
Such calculations shall be based on the actual hours worked, including all time work and piecework hours divided into the qualified earnings, being the actual total gross amount of monies, excluding the overtime premium, paid to such Worker for said hours.
There shall not be included in such calculations, any monies and/or earnings attributed to Holidays and/or Vacations.
The six (6) month periods shall be from the 15th day of December to the 14th day of June and from the 15th day of June to the 14th day of December.
(b)	“Cutting Room Help” where referred to in this Agreement or schedule means personnel working in the Cutting Room, other than those using cutting knives or shears for actual production purposes.
(c)	“Fund” means UNITE, Local 459, and Garment Manufacturers Health Welfare and Pension Fund Inc.
(d)

VP
(e)
"Holiday" means: New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Labour Day "Manufacturer"
Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Civic Holiday Remembrance Day
means an Employer who is Signatory to this Agreement and whom the Association shall list, at the time of signing, as a member of the Association.
(f)	"Worker(s)” means an Employee of a Manufacturer but for the purpose of this Agreement shall exclude mechanics, office staff, shipping staff, sales staff, forepersons.
(g)	"Steward” means a Worker who is appointed or otherwise selected by the Union.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Union shall have the right to deal directly with any individual Manufacturer provided, however, that such dealings are consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
2.02	No Manufacturer shall hereafter make any Agreement with any individual Worker nor exact or accept any cash deposits or other security from a Worker nor enter into any agreement with any individual Worker guaranteeing any length of employment.
2.03	The Union and it's officials must not interfere with the discipline and management of the factories and must not restrict employment or curtail production.
2.04	The Association and each of its members agree that
5
the Union is the Exclusive Bargaining Agent for the Workers of each Manufacturer with reference to wages, hours and working conditions.
ARTICLE 3 - ACCESS TO PLANTS
3.01	The Business Representatives of the Union shall be admitted, at all reasonable times during business hours, to the premises of each Manufacturer when on legitimate business for the Union.
The presence of the Business Representative shall be reported to Management upon arrival.
ARTICLE 4 - PROCEDURE IN APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYMENT OR MEMBERSHIP IN THE ASSOCIATION
4.01	Whenever in need of a Worker, a Manufacturer shall apply to the Representative of the Union who shall be given a time (reasonable under the circumstance of the requirements of the Manufacturer) in which to supply a Worker acceptable to the Manufacturer. Whenever the Union is unable to supply such help, whether temporary or permanent, the Manufacturer may secure such help, but such help must become members of the Union within six (6) weeks. It is the intent of this Agreement that the Union shall use all possible means to assure such adequate supply of help.
4.02	When the Union organizes a Manufacturer who wishes to become a signatory of this Agreement, this Manufacturer must apply for and be accepted as a member in good standing of the Association. Acceptance means that the Manufacturer agrees to sign the Master Agreement and join the GMAWC.
4.03	The Manufacturer agrees to advise the Union
6
and the Fund immediately of any Worker who quits or is laid-off, in order for the Union to be able to effectively implement Article 4.01.
ARTICLE 5 - CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
5.01	Every Worker in the bargaining unit of the Manufacturers shall be not less than sixteen (16) years of age and shall be a member in good standing of the Union; but all Learners and Beginners shall be given six (6) weeks to become members of the Union. It shall be the responsibility of each Manufacturer to deduct the initiation fees and monthly dues of each Learner or Beginner at the conclusion of the probation period of six (6) weeks.
It is further agreed that the Manufacturer shall complete the Union-supplied Worker Information Sheet for all new Workers and shall include said Information Sheet in with the remittance of the initiation fees and monthly dues. The Worker Information Sheet shall contain the name, address, telephone number, birthdate, start date, S.I.N. and sex of the Member. The Manufacturer also agrees to notify the Union as to the reason for any absence of a Worker on the dues checkoff system of this Collective Agreement.
5.02	Every Manufacturer shall deduct from the wages
earned by each member of the Union, the monthly dues of the Union as the Union may determine from time to time, and also any initiation fees and arrears in dues and assessments officially requested by the Union. All monies so deducted shall be remitted monthly, by each Manufacturer, to the office of the Union in Winnipeg within four (4) days of the last
7
pay day of the current month.
It is further agreed that if the Manufacturer is in deliberate and/or clear violation of the Collective Agreement:
(a)	by not putting new Wbrkers into the Union as per the Collective Agreement, then that Manufacturer shall be responsible for the payment of the arrears created by such violation, on behalf of said Worker(s), and
(b)	if the Manufacturer does not deduct the monthly dues as per the Collective Agreement, from the earnings of the Workers, then that Manufacturer shall be responsible for the payment of the arrears created by such violation, on behalf of said Worker(s), and
(c)	by deducting the monthly dues of the Union, as per the Collective Agreement, but does not remit said monies to the office of the Union, as per the Collective Agreement, then that Manufacturer shall forthwith remit said monies and shall include a penalty payment of interest of 1 l/2 % compounded monthly on the balance due to the office of the Union.
It is understood that a clear violation of the Collective Agreement means that there is no valid question as to whether or not a Worker fails under the definition of “Worker” in this Collective Agreement. It is further understood that a deliberate violation of the Collective Agreement means that a Manufacturer does not correct the violation forthwith, after being given notice, in writing, by the Union, that he/she is in violation.
8
5.03	Workers must not be engaged in Union activities
during working hours or on the Manufacturer's premises and must be at work on time, and must not be absent without permission, but such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Manufacturer.
5.04	Each Worker must do first class work in keeping with Union principles.
ARTICLE 6 - PROHIBITIONS
6.01	No Manufacturer who operates an inside factory, shall sendoutwork to a Contractor of a grade similar to that which he/she is manufacturing in his/her own
\ factory, unless the Workers in his/her factory are employed full time.
6.02	Where a Manufacturer wishes to send work to a Contractor, the Union shall be consulted and a Union Contractor shall be mutually agreed upon, if such Contractor can provide delivery and quality consistent with the Manufacturer's standards and the costs are consistent with the local conditions. There shall be reasonable time allowed for the choosing of a Contractor and delivery.
6.03	No Manufacturer shall give out work to the home of any person.
6.04	No Manufacturer shall engage or take part in any lock-outs.
6.05	No Worker shalttake part in any strikes, slowdowns, sitdowns, stoppages, unusual holidays, or a
cessation of work or slowing down of work of any nature or kind whatsoever.
ARTICLE 7 - TRANSFER FROM ONE OPERATION TO ANOTHER
7.01	The average hourly rate for a two (2) week period is to be paid in case of a transfer from one (1) operation to another, providing:
(a)	That the request is made by the Manufacturer at a time when the Worker has sufficient work at his/her own position;
(b)	That the transfer is not a seasonable type when this is normal to theoperation of the Manufacturer;
(c)	That the transfer is not made as a result of change-overs in types of garments being made by the Manufacturers, also when this is inconsistent to the operation of the Manufacturer.
(d)	Workers shall not refuse to do any work which they are given whether same consists of a transfer from one (1) operation to another or not, provided, however, that a Worker may reject a transfer from his/her operation to another if there is no work available at his/her operation.
7.02	In the case of dissatisfaction with the work given, or the transfer made, Workers must continue to do such work as is given or to which they have been transferred, but may complain in the manner set forth in Article 8 hereof, and the procedure therein provided for shall then be proceeded with so that the complaint may be heard and adjudicated upon, through the machinery provided by said Article 8.
7.03	Whenever there shall be a breach of any of the provisions of this Article by the Workers or by any
10
one of them, no negotiations shall take place, and no complaints shall be heard or adjudicated upon, until all Workers who have committed such breach are back to work in the usual way unless the parties otherwise agree. If any Worker commits such breach of Article 7, then the Union agrees to consult such Worker.
ARTICLE 8 - SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
8.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of the Workers or Manufacturers shall be adjusted as quickly as possible without stoppage of work, and it is understood that a Worker or Manufacturer may present an oral complaint at any time, without recourse to the Grievance Procedure herein.
8.02	Whenever any dispute, difference or question shall arise between a Worker, a group of Workers or the Union, on the one hand and a Manufacturer, a group of Manufacturers or the Association, on the other hand, such dispute, difference or question shall constitute a grievance when the complaint is put in writing.
8.03	The word “days” as used in this Article, shall mean working days.
8.04	Grievances shall be processed in the following manner and sequence:
STEP 1.
The Grievor concerned may submit a Grievance to the appropriate Supervisor within ten (IO) days of the event giving rise to the Grievance. The Grievor concerned may have his/her Union Representative and/or Shop Steward present at the
11
submission of the Grievance. The Supervisor shall reply within five (5) days after the Grievance was submitted.
STEP 2.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 1, the Union's Grievance Representative may submit the Grievance, in writing, to the Plant Manager who shall render his/her decision, in writing, within five (5) days after receipt of the Grievance.
At the beginning of Step 2, the Grievance representative shall notify, in writing, the Association of the nature of the Grievance and the Manufacturer involved.
STEP 3.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 2, the Union Manager or designate where the Union Manager is not available. and the CEO or the Company President shall ‘meet and attempt to ‘settle the Grievance, within five (5) days of the conclusion of Step 2.
STEP 4 (A) OPTIONAL
Where a difference between the parties to this Collective Agreement concerning its meaning, application or alleged violation, the Minister of Labour may, on the joint application of the parties, appoint a grievance mediator to assist the parties in resolving the difference.
-or-
(B) OPTIONAL
Where both parties agree, they may decide to use a mediation board made up of two (2) representatives of each party to assist the
12
parties in resolving the grievance
This optional Step 4 is non-binding on the parties and it is solely to give the parties another opportunity to review the problem before deciding to go to arbitration.
STEP 5.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 3, the matter may be referred to Arbitration, within ten (10) days of the conclusion of STEP 3.
Where optional Step 4 is used, the time limit allowed to refer a grievance to arbitration shall be twenty (20) days.
8.05	The time limits in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between both parties.
8.06	For the purpose of this Article and for that of preserving order in the industry, it is agreed that L. Cherniak with P. Teskey as his alternate, and M.
Freedman with J. London as his alternate, shall be such Single Arbitrator who shall rotate their turns as such Single Arbitrator during the term of this Collective Agreement. It is further agreed that these appointments can only be terminated by the consent, in writing, of both parties to this Collective Agreement.
It is further agreed that either party may appoint a Nominee, who shall sit with Single Arbitrator and who shall have all the rights of the Single Arbitrator, regarding testimony and evidence presented and who may advise the Arbitrator but who shall not have the right to vote on the decision.
8.07	Either party to the Arbitration shall serve notice, in writing, upon the other party and the Arbitrator
13
setting out:
(a)	the names of all the Manufacturers and the Workers involved in the dispute; and
(b)	the issues and/or complaints touching upon the Grievance which it is requesting, the Single Arbitrator to settle.
Within five (5) days of receipt of the aforesaid notice, the other party named therein shall serve notice on the first party and the Arbitrator setting out the issues and/or complaints which it is asking the Single Arbitrator to settle.
8.08	The Single Arbitrator shall set the date of the
hearing and shall hear and determine the issues and/ or complaints with all reasonable dispatch and such hearing shall be limited to the issues and/or complaints set forth in the notices referred to in Clause 8.07.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be the Award of the Arbitrator and the Award of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties concerned.
8.09	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Collective Agreement contained, the parties hereto may extend any of the time limits specified in this Article for such further period as they may mutually agree.
8.10	Each party shall pay one-half (l/2) of the costs of the impartial Single Arbitrator.
8.11	Steps in the grievance procedure may be waived by mutual consent between both parties.
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
9.01	The standard work week shall consist of forty (40) regular hours of employment consisting of eight (8)
14
hours per day Monday to Friday inclusive in each calendar week, providing that where a Holiday occurs on any day within the standard work week, the regular hours of employment shall exclude eight (8) hours per Holiday.
9.02	(a) Whenever a Manufacturer requires overtime, it
shall:
(i)	give as much advance notice as possible to the Workers, and
(ii)	ensure that the distribution of overtime is done in as fair and equitable manner as possible for all concerned.
(b) The Union and the Workers must co-operate fully whenever possible.
9.03	OVERTIME DURING STANDARD WORK WEEK
All work in excess of eight (8) hours per day during the standard work week shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2x) and such time worked shall be included in the calculation of a year of service for the purpose of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
OVERTIME ON SATURDAYS AND SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS
9.04	(a) All work done on Saturdays and Sundays shall
be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1 112x) and such time worked shall be included in the calculation of a year of service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
(b) All work done on a Holiday shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of triple time (3x), that is, double time (2x) for the
15
work performed plus payment for the Holiday as provided by Article 14 hereof, and such time worked shall be included in the calculation of a year of service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
9.05	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement contained, a Worker may work on a Saturday for the purpose of making up time lost during the week and such Worker shall not be paid overtime in respect of such timewhich is so made up, if:
(a)	the time lost is caused solely by the Worker, and
(b)	the Manufacturer shall have the factory open on the Saturday of the week during which the Worker lost time, and then only to a maximum of eight (8) hours and such time shall be included in the calculation of a year of service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation
entitlement.
It is further agreed that if the Worker is sent home by the Manufacturer during the standard work week, causing lost time, then the Manufacturer shall pay overtime for any work performed on the Saturday to such Workers sent home during the standard work week.
9.06	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement contained, should the majority of Workers in a factory and the Manufacturer of those Workers desire to bank hours for the purpose of making up work time in order to have up to three (3) additional days off between Boxing Day and New Year's Day, the Manufacturer must meet with the Union by November 30th of that year to determine
16
which Saturdays shall be worked at regular pay, according to (i) or (ii) below;
(i)	the 1st three (3) Saturdays immediately before Christmas Day at eight (8) hours per day at regular rate of pay, or
(ii)	the last six (6) Saturdays immediately before Christmas Day at four (4) hours per day at regular rate of pay.
It is agreed that the Worker shall be paid for such time banked at the time that the work is performed, as per the Collective Agreement and it is further agreed that after the time has been banked, and the Manufacturer then chooses not to close the factory for the said banked days, then that Manufacturer must pay the premium portion of the overtime rate for such time worked to all the Workers who banked time. All such time worked shall be included in the calculation of a years service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
9-07	(a) Notice of intent must be given to the Union by
the Manufacturer, of no less than seven (7) days when the starting and/or quitting time of a regularly scheduled shift is to change. A regularly scheduled shift shall be defined as a shift which is not periodic but is ongoing on a permanent basis as agreed by the Manufacturer and the Union.
(b) Notice of intent must be given to the Union, by the Manufacturer, of no less than seven (7) days when a second and/or third shift is to be implemented and/or discontinued.
Whenever another shift is to be implemented,
17
the Manufacturer shall meet with the Union to discuss and agree on the method used for determining which Worker shall work on each shift.
ARTICLE 10 - FACTORY INTERRUPTIONS
10.01	When a Worker is ordered to report to work and does report at his/her regular starting time. he/she shall be guaranteed four (4) hours of work or in lieu of this, four (4) hours of pay. However if circumstances arise, which are beyond the control of Management such as power failure, fire or failure of other Workers to report, or remain on the job, this provision shall
apply.
10.02	In the event of machine breakdown later in the day, a Worker must report to a Foreperson when the machine is first out of order. If after waiting fifteen (15) minutes the machine is not in suitable working order, the Foreperson will give him/her other employment or permission to go home. The Worker will be paid at his/her Average Hourly Rate for the fifteen (15) minutes delay and for any other work assigned in lieu of his/her regular work if not sent home.
ARTICLE 11 - REST PERIOD
11.01	There are to be two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods, one (1) “organized” and the other to be arranged by each Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 12 - LAY-OFFS AND TEMPORARY HELP
12.01	Whenever lay-offs are necessary they are to be put into effect on a departmental or sectional seniority basis. Whenever reasonably possible, during slack seasons, the Manufacturer shall rotate the lay-off of
18
Workers until the Workers at least have their UlC waiting period served.
No temporary help shall be employed by the Manufacturers unless there is a full week's work for the permanent Workers, The Union is to supply all temporary help when available provided the same is acceptable to the Manufacturers.
12.03	When a lay-off of two (2) weeks or more becomes necessary and/or apparent, the Manufacturer shall notify the Union of such lay-off at the time such lay-off becomes apparent. Workers laid off shall be re-employed in the order of their seniority on a sectional, operational or departmental basis, before any new Workers are hired.
12.04	A Union Member who leaves the service of a Manufacturer after an initial period of two (2) weeks must give five (5) working days notice. The same shall apply to termination by the Manufacturer, except for termination for just cause.
12.05	A Worker who is terminated or discharged shall receive his/her appropriate vacation pay plus all wages due.
ARTICLE 13 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
13.01	The Manufacturer and/or anyone acting on behalf of the Manufacturer agrees at all times to act fairly, reasonably, in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Collective Agreement as a whole.
13.02	Full power of discharge and discipline lies with the Manufacturer but this power shall be exercised with justice and with regard for the reasonable rights of the Worker. The power of discharge shall be
19
exercised only through a fully authorized and responsible representative of the Management.
13.03	No Worker shall be discharged or discriminated against for Union activities.
ARTICLE 14 - HOLIDAY WITH PAY
14.01	Every Worker who is a member of the Union shall receive pay for every Holiday based on his/her average hourly or piece-work earnings, if such Worker has worked the regular hours of work on the workday immediately preceding and succeeding the particular Holiday unless:
(a)	he/she has been prevented from doing so by bona fide illness, or
(b)	he/she has been absent with the consent of the Manufacturer provided that such absence does not exceed thirty (30) working days.
14.02	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement contained, every Worker who is a Member of the Union shall be paid for Christmas Day and New Year's Day at the particular Worker's average hourly or piece-work earnings.
14.03	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement contained, any Worker who terminates his/her employment during the calendar week in which any of the aforementioned Holidays occur without giving at least one (1) weeks notice prior to the date of terminating the employment shall not be entitled to payment for such Holiday.
14.04	When any of the said Holidays fall within a Worker's vacation period, he/she shall be entitled to an extra day's pay and an extra day off.
20
14.05	Where New Year's Day, Canada Day and/or Christmas Day falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Worker shall be granted a Holiday with pay on the working day immediately proceeding or following said Holiday.
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
15.01	Every Worker who has completed a year's service with a Manufacturer, as of July 1st of any year, is entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) three (3) or four (4) weeks with pay, based on his/her Average Hourly Earnings, as that year of service relates to the vacation entitlement in clause 15.03.
15.02	(a) The period commencing the 1st day of July in a
year and terminating on the 30th day of June in the following year shall be used for determining the number of hours of employment constituting a year's service.
(b) A year's service shall constitute 1800 hours of employment, including regular hours and overtime hours and excluding the premium portion of overtime, during the term referred to in 15.02 (a) hereof, but
(i)	there shall not be included in such computations of 1800 hours of employment the two (2) weeks of annual vacation constituting eighty (80) hours of employment;
(ii)	where any Worker shall have worked less than 1800 hours of employment and if such lesser period shall be accounted for by;
1.	Consent to absence from employment given by a Manufacturer to the Wbrker, and/or
2.	Absence due to bona fide illness, and/or
21
3.	Absence due to lack of work, the aggregate of such absences up to a maximum of two hundred and forty (240) hours of employment shall be added to the actual number of hours worked if the result of such addition shall total 1800 hours or more, the Worker shall be deemed to havecompleted, for the purpose of this Article 15 a year's service and shall receive an annual vacation of two (2) three (3) or four (4) weeks with pay as that year of service relates to the vacation entitlement in clause 15.03.
15.03	(a) Every Worker not otherwise entitled to full vacation pay, as provided in 15.01 hereof, shall be treated in the following manner:
Every Worker who has given four (4) years or less of service to the Manufacturer, but who does not have 1800 hours of employment in the vacation year shall be paid four (4%) percent of his/her earnings, exclusive of the overtime premium, or
Every Worker who has given five (5) years and up to thirteen (13) years of service to the Manufacturer, but who does not have 1800 hours of employment in the vacation year shall be paid six (6%) percent of his/her earnings, exclusive of the overtime premium, or
Every Worker who has given fourteen (14) or more years of service to the Manufacturer, but who does not have 1800 hours of employment in thevacation year shall be paid eight (8%) percent of his/her earnings, exclusive of the overtime premium.
22
(b)	Every Worker with less than one (1) year's service with the Manufacturer shall be entitled to a vacation periodwhich shall be pro-rated on the basis that the number of hours of qualifying employment bears to 1800; a fraction of a day shall extend to a whole day's vacation.
(c)	When a Worker has given one (1) year and up to four (4) years of service in one factory, he/she shall be entitled to two (2 weeksvacation in that year. When a Worker has worked fifty percent (50%) of the regular working hours, in each of the four years in the preceding ten (10) years, in one factory, he/she shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation for each year subsequent to the fourth (4th) year and up to the thirteenth (13th) year.
When a Worker has given fourteen-( 14) years or more of service in one factory, he/she shall be entitled to four (4) weeks of vacation in that year. A year of service shall be defined as in clause 15.02.
15.04	A Worker shall be entitled to vacation with pay during the period from the 1st day of July to the 1st day of September, as the Manufacturer may find convenient, unless the Worker and the Manufacturer agree otherwise.
15.05	Total vacation pay shall be paid to each Worker just prior to commencement of such Worker's vacation, or in the case of termination of employment, as the Vacation With Pay Act provides.
15.06	A Manufacturer may close his/her plant for the vacation providing he/she gives two (2) months
23
written notice to the Union prior to the vacations.
15.07	In the case of a Worker entitled to four (4) weeks vacation, three (3) weeks may be taken consecutively, during the vacation period as per clause 15.04, and the fourth (4th) week shall be taken any time up to January 31st of the following year.
ARTICLE 16 -WAGE RATES AND RELATED FACTORS
16.01	In all questions of wages, rates, our garment industry in Manitoba is a separate entity whose wages are affected by local conditions prevailing in our own industry here.
16.02	The Manufacturer shall submit to the Union, upon request, semi-annual statements indicating the following information for each Worker.
(a)	Clock number and name.
(b)	Description of operation performed.
(c)	Average Hourly Earnings.
(d)	Actual Average Hourly Rate earned based on piecework calculations.
16.03	(A) CUTTERS
Increases shall be granted to the Cutters in the following stages:
1.	two and one half per cent (2 112%) effective
December 15, 1996;
2.	two percent (2%) effective December 15, 1997;
3.	two per cent (2%) effective, December 15, 1998
4.	one and one half per cent (1 l/2%) effective
December 15.1999.
24
(B)	TIME WORKERS
Increases shall be granted to the Time Workers in the following stages:
1.	two and one half per cent (2 l/2%) effective December 15, 1996;
2.	two per cent (2%) effective December 15,1997;
3.	two per cent (2%) effective December 15, 1998
4.	one and one half per cent (1 i/2%) effective December 15, 1999.
(C)	PIECEWORKERS
Increases shall be granted to the Piece Workers in the following stages:
1.	two and one half per cent (2 112%) effective December 15, 1996;
2.	two per cent (2%) effective December 15.1997;
3.	two per cent (2%) effective December 15, 1998
4.	one and one half per cent (1 112%) effective December 15, 1999.
16.04	All wages shall be paid weekly unless otherwise agreed to by the Union and the individual Manufacturer.
16.05	Samples are to be paid for on time work rates
16.06	Time work shall not be the basis of payment where piecework prices are provided for, except as provided herein.
16.07	All increases as provided for herein shall be compounded.
25
ARTICLE 17 - CUTTERS
17.01	There shall be three (3) classes of Cutters, namely, First Class Cutters, Second Class Cutters and
Apprentices or Third Class Cutters.
I First Class Cutters shall make markers and grade patterns to the extent of adjusting such pattern up and down one (1) size.
Second Class Cutters shall be fully responsible for his/her lay by taking the marker, checking it for omissions, laying up and cutting properly.
17.02	Each Manufacturer shall employ at least one (1) First Class Cutter except where such Manufacturer (i.e. the proprietor thereof) himself does all the marking in such factory.
17.03	The Manufacturer agrees that the Cutter's minimum hourly rates shall be as follows for the period
^ effective December 15,1996 to December 14, 2000.
ARTICLE 18 - ESTABLISHING PIECEWORK RATES
18.01	Line System
The Worker shall be paid his/her previous Average Hourly Earnings until:
(a)	The Manufacturer shall set a piecerate to fit the new conditions on the job. However, the piecework rate must be set within two (2) weeks, unless the Manufacturer and the Union agree to another mutually, acceptable time.
(b)	If after working on the operation for a period of two (2) weeks, the Worker feels that the new piecerate is inadequate, a complaint to that effect shall be submitted by the Shop Steward. The Manufacturer shall then recheck the rate and meet with the Union Representative.
(c)	In the event that the meeting referred to in sub-paragraph(b) hereof does not result in settlement of the complaint, the dispute may then be dealt with as provided for in Article 8 hereof.
18.02	If, after a further period of two (2) weeks, no Grievance has been submitted, it is assumed that the Union has accepted the new piecerate price.
18.03	Where significant numbers of Workers, in any factory are not able to achieve piecework earning in excess of the provincial minimums, on existing piecework rates, a Union Time Study Engineer, in conjunction with Management, shall have the right to study the operations involved, using accepted engineering practices. The Manufacturer shall be notified, inadvance, of the name and qualifications of the Time Study Engineer, and the time and date of the proposed study. If no agreement is reached the
27
matter will be dealt with under Article 8
18.04	Motion and Time Study Analysis Summaries for all new operations and rate changes shall be available on the Manufacturer's premises for examination by a person qualified in such activities and authorized by the Union.
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	A Worker who has three (3) or more years of employment shall be entitled to leave of absence,
without pay, for a period not to exceed eight (8) weeks, I compassionate reasons shall arise. On 3 his/her return he/she shall be reinstated his/her former position without loss of seniority. A grant of a leave of absence shall be given to a Worker, in writing, and a copy thereof sent to the Union.
19.02	A worker, after twelve (12) consecutive months of employment who submits to his/her employer a written application at least four (4) weeks in advance, shall be entitled to maternity, paternity and/or adoption leave, as the case may be, in the following manner:
1.	Maternity Leave
(a)	A period not exceeding seventeen (17) weeks immediately preceding the estimated date of delivery and the actual date of delivery.
(b)	The period between the estimated date of delivery and the actual date of delivery
(c)	A compulsory period of six (6) weeks immediately following the actual date of delivery. She may, by mutual consent
28
with her Manufacturer and the consent in writing, of her duly qualified medical practitioner certifying that her health will not be endangered, return sooner.
She shall be reinstated in her former position, as long as she does not remain absent more than seventeen (17) weeks following the actual date of her delivery.
2.	Paternity Leave
Every Worker, who:
(i)	in the case of a female Worker, becomes the natural mother of a child;
(ii)	in the case of a male Worker, becomes the natural father of a child or assumes actual care and custody of his new born child, or
(iii)	adopts a child under the law of a Province, is entitled to, and shall be granted parental leave consisting of a continuous period of up to seventeen (17) weeks.
The leave must be taken:
(i)	in the case of the mother, immediately after her maternity leave is completed, unless she and her Manufacturer have agreed to a different arrangement;
(ii)	in the case of the father, parental leave can be taken at the same time, a different time, or overlap the mother's parental leave. Parental leave must be started within fifty two (52) weeks of the child's birth or the date the child comes into custody.
A Worker who has taken leave under
29
the terms of this Article and wishes to resume his/her employment shall be reinstated by the Manufacturer in the position occupied by him/her with no loss of seniority.
ia n.3
All time spent on contract negotiations and/or leave taken pursuant to Clause 19.04 and/or Clause 19.05 shall not be considered as leave of absence in Clause 19.01.
19.04	Workers selected as delegates to any Labour Conference or training session may be ) ^ granted a leave of absence, without pay, with the Manufacturer's consent, which shall not be 5 unreasonably withheld. This leave of absence shall " not exceed five (5) working days.
19.05	If any Worker shall have reasonable grounds for requiring a leave of absence of five (5) days, the Manufacturer shall not unreasonably withhold his consent to such absence, it being understood and agreed, for the purpose hereof, that the term “leave of absence” is exclusive of any absence due to bona fide illness.
19.06	A Worker on bona fide leave of absence shall accumulate seniority and upon return from such leave shall be reinstated to his/her former position.
ARTICLE 20 -UNDERPAYMENT OR OVERPAYMENT TO WORKERS
20.01	If a Manufacturer is found to have underpaid any Worker, contrary to the terms of this Agreement, the Union shall have the right to demand, and the Manufacturer shall pay to such Worker, the amount underpaid. When overpayment occurs, due to an error on the part of the Manufacturer or the Workers,
30
and it the Union agrees that such an error occurred then the Manufacturer shall be entitled to deduct the overpayment over a reasonable time. In the event that the Union does not agree, the matter may be dealt with under the provisions of Article 8.
ARTICLE 21 - MISCELLANEOUS
21.01	In accordance with the spirit of this Agreement, all parties pledge themselves to co-operate in making the arrangement successful, and to use their influence and best efforts for the promotion and development of goodwill; it being understood that it is not the intention that this Agreement shall operate in any way so as to restrict output or production, nor impede the processes of manufacture or management, but to encourage maximum production with minimum waste and fair equitable treatment to everyone concerned.
21.02	Nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to make any Manufacturer responsible or liable for the covenants, agreements, acts or omissions of any other Manufacturer.
21.03	Each Manufacturer agrees to furnish a suitable bulletin board, or boards, and to provide a space for the Union to install a hot file of hot file(s) for the use of the Union and such board(s) shall be located in a conspicuous place in the area where the Workers are working, or lunch rooms, but in any event, at least one (1) such bulletin board and hot file on each floor of the Manufacturer's premises.
21.04	The Association acknowledges that the use of Union Labels on garments manufactured by Association members should be encouraged. The Association agrees that within the limits of its ability to do so,
31
it will urge members to use such labels.
21.05	Each Manufacturer agrees that if a Worker is injured on the job and requires the attention of a Medical Practitioner.
(a)	Should the accident happen during the first half of a shift the Workerwill be paid a total of four (4) hours and by application to the Fund, the Fund will pay the balance of the shift and/or
(b)	Should the accident happen during the second half of a shift the Worker will be paid for a full shift,
21.06	Each Manufacturer agrees to contribute the equivalent of one-quarter (114%) percent of Union Member's wages into a UNITE Local 459 Education and Research Fund, which shall be solely administered by the Union.
The Union shall submit to the Association, upon request, annual generalized statements giving account of the use of said Funds.
ARTICLE 22 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
22.01	Each Manufacturer agrees to iv
Union, of any technological c change that he Intends to effect, if it is Iikely to affect the terms and conditions, or the security, of employment of a significant number of employees in the unit or alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated. Such notice shall be given at least ninety (90) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected.
22.02	The notice referred to in Clause 22.01 shall be in writing and shall state;
32
(a)	the nature of the technological change, and
(b)	the day on which the Manufacturer proposes to effect the technological change, and
(c)	the approximate number and type of Workers likely to be affected by the technological change; and
(d)	the effect the technological change is likely to have on the terms and conditions, or security, of employment of the Workers affected or the alterations that is likely to be made to the basis upon the Collective Agreement was negotiated.
22.03	When a Manufacturer gives notice under this Article then UNITE Local 459 may serve notice upon said Manufacturer to commence collective bargaining with a view to the revision of the Collective Agreement or the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement according to the terms of the Labour Relations Act applying to technological change.
22.04	Either party to this Collective Agreement may submit to Arbitration, the question of whether or not the technological change is likely to affect the terms and conditions, or security of employment of a significant number of workers in the unit, or to alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated, and if the Single Arbitrator finds, in his/her Award that the technological change is likely to effect the terms and conditions, or security of employment of a significant number of Workers in the unit, or to alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated, then such Award shall be deemed to be notice under the terms of this Article.
33
n
ARTICLE 23 -DURATION AND REVISION OF AGREEMENT
23.01	It is hereby understood and agreed that this Agreement shall continue and remain in full-force 'and effect to the close of business on the 14th day of December, 2000, and thereafter from year to year, unless either the Union or the Manufacturers give written notice to the other of its desire to revise this Agreement, or to conclude a new Collective Agreement for any period after the 14th day of December, 2000. The said written notice may be given at any time after the 1st day of October, and not later than the 15th day of November, in any year during which the said Agreement expires.
This agreement may be re-opened by mutual agreement of both parties.
ARTICLE 24 -THE UNITE. LOCAL 459. AND Garment MANUFACTURERS HEALTH, WELFARE AND PENSION FUND, INC.
24.01	It is understood and agreed, between the parties hereto, that the provisions governing the operation of the Fund, including the amount payable to the Fund, the benefits paid out of the Fund, and the terms and conditions under which benefits become payable, may be subject of negotiations of a revision to this Agreement, or for the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement, and that all the provisions of the said Fund are part of this Agreement.
It is further agreed that the Board of Trustees of the fund shall have the right, at their discretion, to refuse to pay any benefits, under the Health and Welfare portion of this Agreement which are
34
duplications of payments made by any Government body and/or other Health and Welfare Plan, or to pay only the difference when the other payment is less than the benefit provided for by the Fund.
24.02	During the life of the Collective Agreement, the Trustees shall administer the benefits that have been set out in the Master Agreement in such a way that there are no additional costs for that benefit.
24.03	Where changes in the administration or operation of the Fund, or in the investment policy of the Fund are deemed necessary by the Trustees of the Fund, the following process shall apply:
i)	The Board of Trustees shall make a Joint
Recommendation to UNITE, Local 459 and the GMAWC for their approval.
ii)	If there is no response to the Fund Administrator within forty five (45) days, the recommendation shall be deemed to have been approved.
A.	HEALTH AND WELFARE
1.	Death Benefit/SPECIAL RETIRING ALLOWANCE
A.	A Member who retired prior to March 29, 1993 shall receive a Death Benefit in the amount of fifteen hundred dollars ($1509).
Effective December 1, 1997 and for the life of this agreement, an eligible retiree may request and advance on their Death Benefit in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100).
B.	A Worker (one who is currently employed with one of the Manufacturers as of March 29,1993) with five (5) or more years of plan membership who has not retired, shall be eligible to receive a Special Retiring
35
Allowance of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) for every year of plan membership to a maximum of five thousand dollars ($5,OOO.OO).
Effective December 14, 1999, the Special Retiring Allowance shall be increased by twenty-five dollars ($25) to two hundred and seventy-five dollars ($275) for every year of plan membership to a maximum of five thousand, five hundred dollars ($5,500).
If a plan member takes an early retirement, they shall have an option of waiting to take the Special Retiring Allowance at age 65 ‘without penalty or taking it out on early retirement at a reduced rate using the early retirement pension formula of three fifths of one percent (3/5th of 1%) reduction for every month short of their sixty-fifth (65th) birthday.
The “reduced rate” shall be adjusted according to any changes made to the early retirement provisions in Section B Pension.
If a Member dies prior to retirement, the Estate shall receive the commuted value of the Special Retiring Allowance.
If a Worker quits or is not eligible for an early retirement or regular retirement when their employment is severed they are not eligible for the Special Retiring Allowance.
2. Weekly Indemnity
All eligible Members shall be entitled to a minimum of seventy percent (70%) of weekly earnings to a maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for thirteen (13) weeks in any consecutive twelve (12) month period with nowaiting days. The Member must be sick at least four (4)
36
3.
4.
5.
I
working days to be eligible. Hospital Allowance
All eligible Members and eligible Dependents shall be entitled to a special allowance equal to the cost of semi-private accommodation, as defined by Manitoba Blue Cross, per day while in the hospital, not exceeding forty two (42) days in any consecutive twelve (12) month period.
Maternity, Paternity, Adoption
In the event of confinement by reason of Maternity of any person who becomes eligible therefore, there shall be paid by the Fund, benefits in the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00).
In the event of confinement by reason of Caesarean Birth to any person who becomes eligible therefore, there shall be paid by the Fund benefits in the sum of one hundred and seventy-five dollars ($175.00).
In the event of adoption by any person who becomes eligible therefore, there shall be paid by the Fund benefits in the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00).
Bereavement Pay
In the event of a death in the family of an eligible
Member, there shall be paid to such Member
(a)	Three (3) days bereavement pay if thedeceased is a Mother-in-law, Father-in-law, Son-in-law, Daughter-in-law, Brother-in-law, Sister-in-law, grandparents or grandchild, and
(b)	Five (5) days, bereavement pay, if the deceased is a Mother, Father, Spouse, Brother, Sister or child.
37
(c) In the event the eligible Member continues to work during the bereavement period, they shall only be entitled to one-half (l/2) the bereavement pay in 5(a) or 5(b) above.
6.	Vision Care
All eligible Members and one (1) eligible Dependent shall be entitled to seventy-five percent (75%) of verifiable costs of prescription eye glasses and/or contact lenses to a maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per claim every two (2) years.
All eligible members and one eligible dependent shall be entitled to one eye examination per 24 month period each, to a maximum of $40.00 per examination where this benefit is not paid under another benefit plan or regulation.
7.	Prescription Drugs
All eligible Members and eligible Dependents shall be entitled to ninety percent (90%) of the total bills, with no deductible, for prescription drugs, based on submitted and verifiable bills. Effective the date of signing of this Agreement, prescription drugs for the purposes of reimbursement, shall be defined as prescription drugs that are included on the Pharmacare Program Formulary. (Formulary is the list of drugs that the Pharmacare Program will provide a reimbursement for.)
The Fund will only pay to out-of-Province of Manitoba members the equivalent of what is paid to plan members in Manitoba. All eligible out-ofProvince plan members shall be entitled to ninety percent (90%) of the total bills, minus the amount
38
that would be reimbursed by Manitoba Pharmacare, for prescription drugs, based on submitted and verifiable bills.
8.	Dental Plan
All eligible Members and eligible Dependents shall be entitled to receive eighty percent (30%) of the “Basic” dental services listed below.
Diagnostic
-	complete examination once every three (3) years
-	recall or oral examination covered twice in each calendar year
-	periapical or bite-wing x-rays covered twice in each calendar year
full Mouth x-rays once every 2 years if necessary. Preventative
-	Combination of one and one-half units of Polishing and/or Scaling (the removal of deposits and stains from the tooth surface) twice in each calendar year.
Topical application of fluoride up to two (2) appliances in each calendar year
Space maintainers (except when used in orthodontic treatment).
Surgical
extractions andcomplicated surgical procedures performed in the dentist's office, including post -	operative care and general anaesthesia.
Restorative
-	fillings made of amalgams, silicates, plastics and synthetic porcelains. Includes temporary
39
stainless steel crowns.
Prosthetic
-	repair of damaged dentures. Adding teeth to existing dentures, or relining or rebasing the dentures. Each procedure limited to once every three (3) years.
Accidental Injury
-	major dental services as a result of an accident up to a maximum of one thousand dollars ($1000.00) per year per person.
Anaesthesia
- Nitrous oxide analgesia, administered, in the Dentist's office.
In addition to the “Basic” services listed previously all eligible Members and eligible Dependents shall be entitled to receive fifty percent (50%) of eligible charges for the following “Major” dental services.
Endodontics:
-	the usual procedures required for pulpal therapy and root canal filling.
Periodontics:
-	the usual procedures for treatment of thediseases of the tissues and bones supporting the teeth.
Extensive Restorations:
-	gold inlays and onlays
-	jackets crowns and bridges to rebuild and replace
missing teeth.
each procedure except crowns limited to once in a five (5) year period. Crowns will not be
40
replaced within five (5) years of placement. Prosthetic:
- partial or complete upper and lower dentures, provided by a dentist or licensed denturist. Each procedure limited to once every five (5) years. Allowances include all adjustments. Annual maximum for the dental plan is one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ($1250.00) per person. The plan is based on the prevailing Dental Fee Guide. Any charges over this guide shall be the responsibility of the Member.
9.	Chiropractic Care
All eligible Members shall be entitled to payment by the Fund for verifiable Chiropractic Care up to a limit of forty-eight dollars ($48.00) over and above that paid by Manitoba Health Services Commission in any one year.
10.	Jury Duty
In the event that a Worker is called upon to perform
Jury Duty, there shall be paid, as a benefit from the Fund, all loss of wages incurred by such Worker.
11.	Ambulance Fees
All eligible Members shall be entitled to receive payment from the Fund, for verifiable ambulance fees for trips that occur in the home area of each member.
12. All members shall be entitled to a voluntary flu shot one per year. The Fund shall organize the flu shots for all the manufacturers.
41
B. PENSION
The maximum monthly pension benefit to which a member is entitled is $155.00.
A member who retires on the first day of the month on or after his 65th birthday shall receive a pension equal to $7.75 per month multiplied by a minimum of 2 years to a maximum of 20 years of Continuous Plan Membership creditedto him.
A Member may choose to retire early if they have reached age 55 and has accumulated at least 10 years of Continuous Plan Membership. This early type of pension benefit will be determined in accordance with the method described above and shall be reduced by 3/5 of 1% for each month that the retirement date precedes the first day of the month coinciding with or immediately following their 65th birthday.
Effective December 15, 1996, the retirement date shall be sixty-four (64).
Effective December 15, 1997, the retirement date shall be sixty-three (63).
Effective December 15, 1996, the retirement date shall be sixty-two (62).
If this benefit can be provided for at $25,000 per year, plus or minus 5%, then the benefit will be provided as noted above. If this amount is insufficient to fund the benefit, then this amount shall be considered to be the maximum to be paid annually for this benefit, and the retirement will be adjusted accordingly.
"Totally Disabled” members, who have accumulated at least 10 years of Continuous Plan Membership
42
and who meet the criteria, shall be entitled to disability retirement benefits of at least 77%.
Each benefit which is payable as a result of death, disablement or retirement occurring before January 1, 1990 is the amount which was payable under the Plan as it existed immediately prior to January 1, 1990.
Words implying the masculine gender shall include the feminine and words importing the singular shall include the plural where the context so requires
C. OTHER PROVISIONS
1.	The contributions by Manufacturers to the Fund is the equivalent of three and three quarters percent (3 3/4%) of Union Member's wages. Manufacturers shall also contribute the equivalent of one quarter percent (l/4%) of Union Member's wages to the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile
Employees, Local 459 Education and Research Fund. Both of these shall be remitted monthly by the end of the following month.
Should a Manufacturer be found to be in violation of the Collective Agreement by not remitting the contribution to the Health, Welfare and Pension Fund and/or the Education and Research Fund as per the contract, then, after receiving written notice of the arrears, that Manufacturer shall pay a penalty of 1 112% interest, compounded Monthly on the unpaid balance.
2.	(a) The Office Employees of the Fund shall be
entitled to the benefits of the Health, Welfare and Pension Fund in the same way as Union Members and shall be subject to the same Fund by-laws, The premiums, equivalent to
43
the Manufacturer's contributions, shall come from the Fund itself. Any terms of original employment which were more favourable shall remain in effect and supersede this clause.
(b) The Office Employees of Local 459 may be entitled to the benefits of the Health, Welfare and Pension Fund in the same way as Union Members and shall be subject to the same Fund by-laws. The premiums, equivalent to the Manufacturer's contributions, shall come from the UNION OF NEEDLE TRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES, LOCAL 459.
3.	For the purpose of the Health and Welfare Fund, “Dependents” shall mean a child or spouse of the Member. Child or spouse shall be defined by the following definition obtained from Blue Cross:
“The term ‘Dependent' means all natural children, stepchildren and children of the person of the opposite sex with whom the employee is living in a husband and wife relationship, providing such children are living with the Worker, are unmarried, under the age of 21 and dependent upon the employee for support”
4.	Those Members who retire are eligible for benefits ■2^ for six (6) months from the date of retirement, where
5.	The Worker shall become eligible for benefits once a Manufacturer has made contributions to the Fund on behalf of the Worker for five (5) months.
ARTICLE 25 -WORKPLACE SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM
25.01	The Manufacturer and the Union agree to
applicable.
44
establish Safety and Health Programs in all Plants in accordance with the Workplace Safety and Health Ad.
25.02	BASIC OBJECTIVES OF A DEMOCRATIC SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM
(a)	The Manitoba Workplace, Safety and Health Act provides for the establishment of Joint Labour-Management Safety and Health Committees in individual workplaces or classes of workplaces designated by the provincial cabinet.
(b)	Workers and Manufacturers share an equal concern in preventing accidents and ill-health arising out of conditions in the workplace. The intent of the Joint Safety and Health Committee is to enhance the ability of Workers and Manufacturers to resolve safety and health concerns reasonably and co-operatively. They should do so on their own, with a minimum of government involvement.
(c)	The specific objectives of a Safety and Health Committee include:
(1)	assisting Workers and the Manufacturer to identify, record, examine, evaluate and resolve safety and health concerns in the Workplace;
(2)	developing practical procedures and conditions to help achieve the highest possible degrees of safety and health in the Workplace; and
(3)	promoting education and training programs to develop detailed knowledge of safety and
45
health concerns and responsibilities in each individual in the Workplace.
ARTICLE 26 - HARASSMENT AND DISCRIMINATION
The Manufacturers and the Union share an equal concern over the issues of harassment and discrimination in the Workplace and are fully supportive of the principles contained in the Manitoba Human Rights Act.
ARTICLE 27 - BINDING CLAUSE
27.01	Where in this Agreement the masculine or the singular has been used, it shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter or plural, as the case may be, wheresoever the context of this Agreement requires.
27.02	Time shall in all respects be the essence of this Agreement.
27.03	This Agreement shall ensure to the benefit of , and be binding upon, the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
46
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and seals the day and year first above written.
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN CANADA
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES LOCAL 459
per:
per:
David Rich	Greg Maruca
Todd Abbott
Wayne Dzedzora
Charito Gamble
Rose Godin
Yvonne Hourie
Florencia Marquez
Morris Okun
Dallas Schweder
Tiena Warkentin
47
48
APPENDIX A. FORMING PART OF THIS CONTRACT RE FUND ADMINISTRATION
	LENGTH OF TIME BENEFITS CONTINUE	LENGTH OF TIME EMPLOYEE CAN BE AWAY WITHOUT NEW WAITING PERIOD	‘DEATH BENEFIT SPECIAL RETIRING ALLOWANCE	WEEKLY INDEMNITY (PAY FOR SICK LEAVE)	HOSPITAL ALLOWANCE	MATERNITY PARENTAL
LAY-OFF	90) DAYS	1 YEAR	YES	NO	YES	YES
DAY TERMINATED	NO	NO	NO	NO	NO	NO
DAY QUIT	NO	NO	NO	NO	NO	NO
SHOP CLOSURE	90 DAYS	1 YEAR	YES	NO	YES	YES
MATERNITY PARENTAL	LENGTH OF LEAVE	1 YEAR	YES	NO	YES	YES
SICK	AS PER AGREEMENT	1 YEAR	YES	NO	YES	YES
LEAVE WITHOUT PAY	60 DAYS	END OF LEAVE	YES	NO	YES	YES
WORKERS COMPENSATION	LENGTH OF LEAVE	ENO OF COMPENSATION	YES	NO	YES	YES
	BEREAVE	VISION	PRESCRIP	DENTAL	CHIRO	JURY	AMBULANCE
	MENT PAY	CARE (EYE GLASSES)	TION DRUGS	PLAN	PRACTIC CARE	DUTY	FEES
LAY-OFF	ONLY IF U.I.C. DOES NOT	YES	YES	YES	YES	NO	YES
DAY TERMINATED	NO	NO	NO	NO	NO	NO	NO
DAY Qurr	NO	NO	NO	NO	NO	NO	NO
SHOP CLOSURE	ONLY IF U.I.C. DOES NOT	YES	YES	YES	YES	NO	YES
MATERNITY PARENTAL	ONLY IF U.I.C. DOES NOT	YES	YES	YES	YES	NO	YES
SICK	ONLY IF U.I.C. DOES NOT	YES	YES	YES	YES	NO	YES
LEAVE WITHOUT PAY	NO	YES	YES	YES	YES	NO	YES
WORKERS COMPENSATION	NO	YES	YES	YES	YES	NO	YES
•DEATH BENEFIT&SPECIAL RETIRING ALLOWANCE - ANY MEMBER RETIRNG EFFECTIVE APRIL 27,1993 IS NO LONGER ENTITLED TO RECEIVE DEATH BENEFITS. INSTEAD THE MEMBER WILL RECEIVE THE SPECIAL RETIRING ALLOWANCE AS PER THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT.