THE COMPLETE AGREEMENT
UNITE HERE!, MB JOINT COUNCIL, LOCAL 459
978 NOTRE DAME AVENUE WINNIPEG, MANITOBA R3E ON3
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN CANADA
DECEMBER 15, 2004 - DECEMBER 14, 2009
INDEX
Article No
Page
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8. 9.
I 0. 1 I. 12.
13,
14,
15,
16, 17, 18 19
Definitions...................................
Recognition...................................
Access to Plants..............................
Procedure in Application for Employment
or Membership in The Association..............
Conditions of Employment......................
Prohibitions..................................
Transfer from One Operation to Another........
Settlement of Disputes........................
Hours of Work and Overtime....................
Factory Interruptions and Machine Breakdowns.
Rest Period...................................
Lay-Offs and Temporary Help...................
Discharge and Discipline......................
Holiday with Pay..............................
Vacations with Pay............................
Wage Rates and Related Factors................
Classes of Cutters............................
Establishing Piecework Prices (Line System)...
Leave of .Absence.............................
..6
..7
..8
..8
..9
11
11
12
15
17
17
18 18 19 19 22 23
23
24
Article No.
Page
20.	Underpayment or Overpayment to Workers ....
21.	Technological Change.......................
22.	Union Bulletin Board.......................
23.	Union Label................................
24.	Injury on the Job..........................
25.	Discount at Factory Outlets................
26.	Miscellaneous..............................
27.	Duration and Revision of Agreement.........
28.	Old Health Fund - Transitional Provisions..
29.	Union Health Plan..........................
30.	Old Pension Fund-Transitional Provisions...
31.	Union Retirement Benefit...................
32.	Remittance of Contributions under Agreement
33.	Administration of Benefits.................
34.	Basic Objectives of a Democratic Safety
and Health Program........................
35.	Harassment and Discrimination..............
36.	Binding Clause.............................
Appendix A
List of Participating Manufacturers.......
Letter of Understanding...................
Memorandum - Gemini Fashions of Canada..
25
25
26
27
27
27
27
28
28
29
30
31
32
33
33
34
34
36
37
41
This AGREEMENT made in duplicate as and from the 15th day of December, 2004.
BETWEEN:
UNITE HERE!, MB JOINT COUNCIL LOCAL 459
(hereinafter cal led the “Union”)
OF THE FIRST PART,
-and-
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN CANADA
(hereinafter called the “Association”) composed of several Manufacturers listed in Appendix A on whose behalf the Association now execute or may hereafter execute this Agreement and who become parties hereto (hereinafter called the “Manufacturers")
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS the Manufacturers are engaged in the manufacture of overalls, shirts, playsuits, pants, wind-breakers, sports apparel, and other manufactured products, and
WHEREAS the Union is composed of Workers engaged in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will be, from time to time, employed by the Manufacturers in their factories.
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
1.01	in this Agreement:
(a)	“Average Hourly Rate” or “Average Hourly Earnings” means the average hourly rate calculated on any qualified earnings over a period of six (6) months immediately preceding the application of the average hourly rate or earnings. In the case of a Worker with less than six (6) months employment, the period of time up to the six (6) month period shall be used to determine the six (6) month average.
Such calculations shall be based on the actual hours worked, including all time work and piecework hours divided into the qualified earnings, being the actual total gross amount of monies, excluding the overtime premium, paid to such Worker for said hours.
There shall not be included in such calculations, any monies and/or earnings attributed to Holidays and/or Vacations and/or signing bonuses as provided for under this Agreement.
The six (6) month periods shall be from the 15th day of December to the 14th day of June and from the 15th day cf June to the 14th day of December.
(b)	“Cutting Room Help” where referred to in this Agreement or schedule means personnel working in the Cutting Room, other than those using cutting knives or shears for actual production purposes.
(c)	“Old Health Fund and Old Pension Fund” means the UNITE, Local 459, and Garment Manufacturers Health Welfare and Pension Fund Inc. which was terminated under a previous Collective Agreement, effective December 15, 2000 - December 14, 2004.
“Benefit Rights Fund” means the current Benefits Plan managed and operated by UNITE HERE! MB Joint Council, Local 459 on behalf of its Members.
The Benefit Rights Fund manages the Union Health Plan and the Union Retirement Benefit.
(d) “HOLIDAY”means New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Remembrance Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Boxing Day
(e) “Manufacturer" means an Employer whom the Association shall list, at the time of signing, in Appendix A as a member of the Association.
(9 “Worker (s)” means an Employee of a Manufacturer but for the purpose of this Agreement shall exclude mechanics, office staff, shipping staff, sales staff, forepersons.
(g)	“Steward”means a Worker who is appointed or otherwise selected by the Union.
(h)	“Technological Change” includes new machinery, equipment, methods of production, products, management systems and/or reorganization.
(i)	“Unit”with respect to technology change, ”unit” refers to the Plant, department or section.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Union shall have the right to deal directly with any individual Manufacturer provided, however, that such dealings are consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
2.02	No Manufacturer shall hereafter make any Agreement with any individual Worker nor exact or accept any cash deposits or other security from a Worker nor enter into any agreement with any individual Worker guaranteeing any length cf employment.
2.03	The Union and its officials must not interfere with the discipline and management of the factories and must not restrict employment or curtail production.
2.04	The Association and each of its members agree that the Union is the Exclusive Bargaining Agent for the Workers of each Manufacturer with reference to wages, hours and working conditions.
ARTICLE 3 - ACCESS TO PLANTS
3.01	The Business Representatives of the Union shall be admitted, at all reasonable times during business hours, to the premises of each Manufacturer when on legitimate business for the Union.
The presence of the Business Representative shall be reported to Management upon arrival.
ARTICLE 4 - PROCEDURE IN APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYMENT OR MEMBERSHIP IN THE ASSOCIATION
4.01	Whenever in need of a Worker, a Manufacturer shall apply to the Representative of the Union who shall be given a time (reasonable under the circumstance of the requirements of the Manufacturer) in which to supply a Worker acceptable to the Manufacturer. Whenever the Union is unable to supply such help, whether temporary or permanent, the Manufacturer may secure such help, but such help must become members of the Union from date of hire. It is the intenfof this Agreement that the Union shall use all possible means to assure such adequate supply of help.
4.02	The Manufacturer agrees to advise the Union and the Fund immediately of any Worker who quits or is laid-off, in order for the Union to be able to effectively implement Article 4.01.
4.03	When the Union shall organize a non-Union Manufacturer who wishes to become a signatory of this Agreement, the Union shall advise the Manufacturer to apply to the Association for membership. The Association reserves the right to review the membership application and to set terms and conditions for the acceptance and continued membership status of a new member. The Association shall advise the Union of the acceptance to the Manufacturer as a member in good standing of the Association.
4.04	The Association will advise the Union in a timely manner of Manufacturers who have ceased to be members in good standing of the Association or of Manufacturers who have terminated their membership in the Association prior to the expiry of the Agreement and who will not be represented by the Association in future negotiations. This will allow the Union to negotiate directly with that Manufacturer on the expiry of this Agreement, for a new collective agreement with that Manufacturer. It is understood and agreed that the departure of a
Manufacturer from the GMAWC or any change in status of a Manufacturer’s rights or responsibilities as set out in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
5.01	Every Worker in the bargaining unit of the Manufacturers shall be not less than sixteen (16) years of age and shall be a member in good standing of the Union. It shall be the responsibility of each Manufacturer to deduct the initiation fees and monthly dues of each Worker.
It is further agreed that the Manufacturer shall complete the Union-supplied Worker Information Sheet for all new Workers and shall include said Information Sheet in with the remittance of the initiation fees and monthly dues. The Worker Information Sheet shall contain the name, address, telephone number, birthdate, start date, S.I.N. and sex of the Member. The Manufacturer also agrees to notify the Union as to the reason for any absence of a Worker on the dues checkoff system of this Collective Agreement.
5.02	Every Manufacturer shall deduct from the wages earned by each member of the Union, the monthly dues of the Union as the Union may determine from time to time, and also any initiation fees and arrears in dues and assessments officially requested by the Union. All monies so deducted shall be remitted monthly, by each Manufacturer, to the office of the Union in Winnipeg within four (4) days of the last pay day of the current month.
It is further agreed that the Manufacturer is in deliberate and/or clear violation of the Collective Agreement:
(a)	by not putting new Workers into the Union as per the Collective Agreement, then that Manufacturer shall be responsible for the payment of the arrears created by such violation, on behalf of said Workers (s) and
(b)	if the Manufacturer does not deduct the monthly dues as per the Collective Agreement, from the earnings of the Workers, then that Manufacturer shall be responsible for the payment of the arrears created by such violation, on behalf of said Worker (s), and
(c)	by deducting the monthly dues of the Union, as per
the Collective Agreement, but does not remit said monies to the office of the Union, as per the Collective Agreement, then that Manufacturer shall forthwith remit said monies and shall include a penalty payment of interest of 114 % compounded monthly on the balance due to the office of the Union.
It is understood that a clear violation of the Collective Agreement means that there is no valid question as to whether or not a Worker falls under the definition of “Worker” in this Collective Agreement.
It is further understood that a deliberate violation of the Collective Agreement means that a Manufacturer does not correct the violation forthwith, after being given notice, in writing, by the Union, that he/she is in violation.
5.03	The Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Manufacturer from any and all claims, demands, actions, proceedings, and any other form of liability or expense arising from any deductions made by the Manufacturer from the wages of any Worker pursuant to Article 5.02, except where the Manufacturer has failed to make the deductions as required in this Article.
5.04	Workers must not be engaged in Union activities during working hours or on the Manufacturer’s premises and must be at work on time, and must not be absent without permission, but such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Manufacturer.
5.05	Each Worker must do first class work in keeping with Union principles.
5.06	A newly hired worker shall be on probation for thirty working (30) days from the date of hire. The grievance or arbitration procedure shall not apply to a worker who has been released or disciplined during the probationary period.
5.07	Manufacturers shall not be required to calculate, accrue, or remit payment for health or retirement benefits under this Agreement in respect of Workers who are in their probationary period.
1 A
ARTICLE 6 - PROHIBITIONS
No Manufacturer who operates an inside factory, shall send out work to a Contractor of a grade similar to that which he/ she is manufacturing in his/her own factory, unless the Workers in his/her factory are employed full time.
Where a Manufacturer wishes to send work to a Contractor, the Union shall be consulted and a Union Contractor shall be mutually agreed upon, if such Contractor can provide delivery and quality consistent with the Manufacturer's standards and the costs are consistent with the local conditions. There shall be reasonable time allowed for the choosing of a Contractor and delivery.
No Manufacturer shall give out work to the home of any person.
No Manufacturer shall engage or take part in any lock-outs.
No Worker shall take part in any strikes, slowdowns, sitdowns, stoppages, unusual holidays, ora cessation of work or slowing down of work of any nature or kind whatsoever.
ARTICLE 7 - TRANSFER FROM ONE OPERATION TO ANOTHER
7.01	The average hourly rate for a two (2) week period is to be paid in case of a transfer from one (7) operation to another, providing:
(a)	That the request is made by the Manufacturer at a time when the Worker has sufficient work at his/her own position;
(b)	That the transfer is not a seasonable type when this is normal to the operation of the Manufacturer;
(c)	That the transfer is not made as a result of change-over in types of garments being made by the Manufacturers, also when this is inconsistent to the operation of the Manufacturer;
(d)	Workers shall not refuse to do any work which they are given whether same consists of a transfer from one (I) operation to another or not, provided, however, that a Worker may reject a transfer from his/her operation to another if there is no work available at his/her operation.
i°
ii	!
6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
7.02	In the case of dissatisfaction with the work given, or the transfer made, Workers must continue to do such work as is given or to which they have been transferred, but may complain in the manner set forth in Article 8 hereof, and the procedure therein provided for shall then be proceeded with so that the complaint may be heard and adjudicated upon, through the machinery provided by said Article 8.
7.03	Whenever there shall be a breach of any of the provisions of this Article by the Workers or by any one of them, no negotiations shall take place, and no complaints shall be heard or adjudicated upon, until all Workers who have committed such breach are back to work in the usual way unless the parties otherwise agree. If any Worker commits such breach of Article 7, then the Union agrees to consult such Worker.
ARTICLE 8 ..SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
8.01	S is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of the Workers or Manufacturers shall be adjusted as quickly as possible without stoppage of work, and it is understood that a Worker or Manufacturer may present an oral complaint at any time, without recourse to the Grievance Procedure herein.
8.02	Whenever any dispute, difference or question shall arise between a Worker, a group of Workers or the Union, on the one hand and a Manufacturer, a group of Manufacturers or the Association, on the other hand, such dispute, difference or question shall constitute a grievance when the complaint is put in writing.
8.03	The word "days" as used in this Article, shall mean working days.
8.04	Grievances shall be processed in the following manner and sequence:
STEP 1.
The Griever concerned may submit a Grievance to the appropriate Supervisor within ten (I0) days of the event giving rise to the Grievance. The Griever may have his/her Union Representative and/or Shop Steward present at the submission of the Grievance. The Supervisor shall reply within five (5) days after the Grievance was submitted.
STEP 2.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 1, the Union's Grievance Representative may submit the Grievance, in writing, within ten (10) days from receipt of the decision from Step I Jo the Plant Manager who shall render his/her decision, in writing, within five (5) days after receipt of the Grievance.
At the beginning of Step 2, the Grievance Representative shall notify, in writing, the Association of the nature of the Grievance and the Manufacturer involved.
STEP 3.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 2, the Union's Grievance Representative may submit the grievance in writing to the CEO or the Company President within five (5) days from receipt of the decision in Step 2. The Union's Grievance Representative and the CEO or designate shall meet within five (5) days to attempt to settle the Grievance.
STEP 4. OPTIONAL
OPTION A: Where a difference between the parties to this Collective Agreement concerning its meaning, application or alleged violation, the Minister of Labour may, on the joint application of the parties, appoint a grievance mediator to assist.the parties in resolving the difference.
-or-
OPTION B: Where both parties agree, they may decide to use a mediation board made up of two (2) representatives of each party to assist the parties in resolving the grievance.
This optional Step 4 is non-binding on the parties and it is solely to give the parties another opportunity to review the problem before deciding to go to arbitration.
STEP 5.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 3, the matter may be referred to Arbitration, within ten (I0) days of the conclusion of Step 3.
Where the Step 4 option is used, the time limit allowed to refer a matter to arbitration shall be twenty (20) days.
i n
8.05	The time limits in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between both parties.
8.06	For the purpose of this Article and for that of preserving order in the industry, it is agreed that M. Freedman with Arnie Peltz as his alternate, and J. London with Diane Jones as his alternate, shall be such Single Arbitrator during the term of this Collective Agreement. It is further agreed that these appointments can only be terminated by the consent, in writing, of both parties to this Collective Agreement.
It is further agreed that either party may appoint a Nominee, who shall sit with Single Arbitrator and who shall have all the rights of the Single Arbitrator, regarding testimony and evidence presented and who may advise the Arbitrator but shall not have the right to vote on the decision.
8.07	Either party to the Arbitration shall serve notice, in writing, upon the other party and the Arbitrator setting out:
(a)	the names of all the Manufacturers and the workers involved in the dispute; and
(b)	the issues and/or complaints touching upon the Grievance which it is requesting, the Single Arbitrator to settle.
Within five (5) days of receipt of the aforesaid notice, the other party named therein shall serve notice on the first party and the Arbitrator setting out the issues and/or complaints which it is asking the Single Arbitrator to settle.
8.08	The Single Arbitrator shall set the date of the hearing and shall hear and determine the issues and/or complaints with all reasonable dispatch and such hearing shall be limited to the issues and/or complaints set forth in the notices referred to in Clause 8.07.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be the Award of the Arbitrator and the Award of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties concerned.
8.09	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Collective Agreement contained, the parties hereto may extend any of the time limits specified in this Article for such further period as they may mutually agree.
i i
8.10	Each party shall pay one-half (%) of the costs of the impartial Single Arbitrator.
8.11	Steps in the grievance procedure may be waived by mutual consent between both parties.
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
9.01	The standard work week shall consist of forth (40) regular hours of employment consisting of eight (8) hours per day Monday to Friday inclusive in each calendar week, providing that where a Holiday occurs on any day within the standard work week, the regular hours of employment shall exclude eight (8) hours per holiday.
9.02	(a) Whenever a Manufacturer requires overtime, it shall:
(i)	give as much advance notice as possible to the Workers, and
(ii)	ensure that the distribution of overtime is done in as fair and equitable manner as possible for all concerned.
(b) The Union and the Workers must co-operate fully when ever possible.
9.03	OVERTIME DURING STANDARD WORK WEEK
All work in excess of eight (8) hours per day during the standard work week shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1.5x) and such time worked shall be included in the calculation of a year of service for the purpose of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
9.04	OVERTIME ON SATURDAYS AND SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS
(a)	All work done on Saturdays and Sundays shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1.5x) and such time worked shall be included in the calculation of a year of service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
(b)	All work done on a Holiday shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of triple time (3x), that is, double time (2x) for the work performed plus payment for the Holiday as provided by Article 14 hereof, and such time
worked shall be included in the calculation of a year of service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
9.05	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, a Worker may work on a Saturday for the purpose of making up time lost during the week and such Worker shall not be paid overtime in respect of such time which is so made up, if:
(a)	the time lost is caused solely by the Worker, and,
(b)	the Manufacturer shall have the factory open on the Saturday of the week during which the Worker lost time, and then only to a maximum of eight (8) hours and such time shall be included in the calculation of a year of service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
It is further agreed that if the Worker is sent home by the Manufacturer during the standard work week, causing lost time, then the Manufacturer shall pay overtime for any work performed on the Saturday to such Workers sent home during the standard work week.
9.06	Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary, should the majority of Workers in a factory and the Manufacturer of those Workers desire to bank hours for the purpose of making up work time in order to have up to three (3) additional days off between Boxing Day and New Year’s Day, the Manufacturer must meet with the Union by November 30th of that year to determine which Saturdays shall be worked at regular pay, according to (i) and (ii) below;
(i)	the first three (3) Saturdays immediately before Christmas Day at eight (8) hour per day at regular rate of pay, or
(ii)	the last six (6) Saturdays immediately before Christmas Day at four (4) hours per day at regular rate of pay.
It is agreed that the Worker shall be paid for such time banked at the time that the work is performed, as per the Collective Agreement and it is further agreed that after the time has been banked, and the Manufacturer then chooses not to close the factory for the said banked days, then that Manufacturer must pay the premium portion of the overtime rate for such time worked to all the Workers who banked time. All such time
worked shall be included in the calculation of a years service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
9.07 CHANGES TO SHIFTS
(a)	Notice of intent must be given to the Union by the Manufacturer, of no less than seven (7) days when the starting and/or quitting time of a regularly scheduled shift is to change. A regularly scheduled shift shall be defined as a shift which is not periodic but is ongoing on a permanent basis as agreed by the Manufacturer and the Union.
(b)	Notice of intent must be given to the Union, by the Manufacturer, of no less than seven (7) days when a second and/or third shift is to be implemented and/or discontinued.
Whenever another shift is to be implemented, the Manufacturer shall meet with the Union to discuss and agree on the method used for determining which Worker shall work on each
shift.
ARTICLE 10 - FACTORY INTERRUPTIONS AND MACHINE BREAKDOWNS
10.01	When a Worker is ordered to report to work and does report at his/her regular starting time, he/she shall be guaranteed four (4) hours of work or in lieu of this, four (4) hours of pay. However if circumstances arise, which are beyond the control of Management such as power failure, fire or failure of other Workersto report, or remain on the job, this provision shall not apply.
10.02	In the event of machine breakdown later in the day, a Worker must report to a Foreperson when the machine is first out of order. If after waiting fifteen (15) minutes the machine is not in suitable working order, the Foreperson will give him/her other employment or permission to go home. The Worker will be paid at his/her Average Hourly Rate for the fifteen (15) minutes delay and for any other work assigned in lieu of his/her regular work if not sent home.
ARTICLE 11 - REST PERIOD
11.01 There are to be two (2) ten (I0) minute rest periods, one (1) “organized” and the other to be arranged by each Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 12 - LAY-OFFS AND TEMPORARY HELP
12.01	Whenever lay-offs are necessary they are to be put into effect on a departmental or sectional seniority basis. During slack seasons or temporary shortages of work, each Manufacturer shall have the option of dividing the work so that each Worker will receive approximately an equal amount of work or of dividing the hours on equal working time.
12.02	No temporary help shall be employed by the Manufacturers unless there is a full week’s work for the permanent Workers. The Union is to supply all temporary help when available provided the same is acceptable to the Manufacturers.
/
12.03	When a lay-off of two (2) weeks or more becomes necessary and/or apparent, the Manufacturer shall notify the Union of such lay-off at the time such lay-off becomes apparent. Workers laid off shall be re-employed in the order of their seniority on a sectional, operational or departmental basis, before any new Workers are hired.
12.04	A Worker must give one pay period notice when leaving the employment of a Manufacturer. The same notice period applies to termination by the Manufacturer, except for termination for just cause or for workers under probation.
12.05	A Worker who is terminated or discharged shall receive his/her appropriate vacation pay plus all wages due.
ARTICLE 13 - DISCHARGEAND DISCIPLINE
13.01	The Manufacturer and/or anyone acting on behalf of the Manufacturer agrees at all times to act fairly, reasonably, in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Collective Agreement as a whole.
13.02	Full power of discharge and discipline lies with the Manufacturer but this power shall be exercised with justice and with regard for the reasonable rights of the Worker. The power of discharge shall be exercised only through a fully authorized and responsible representative of the Management.
13.03	No Worker shall be discharged or discriminated against for Union activities.
ARTICLE 14 - HOLIDAY WITH PAY
14.01	Every Worker who is a member of the Union shall receive pay for every Holiday based on his/her average hourly or piecework earnings, if such Worker has worked the regular hours of work on the work day immediately preceding and succeeding the particular Holiday unless:
(a)	he/she has been prevented from doing so by bona fide illness, or
(b)	he/she has been absent with the consent of the Manufacturer provided that such absence does not exceed thirty (30) working days.
14.02	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement contained, every Worker who is a Member of the Union shall be paid for Christmas Day and New Year’s Day at the particular Worker’s average hourly or piece-work earnings.
14.03	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, any Worker who terminates his/her employment during the calendar week in which any of the aforementioned Holidays occur without giving at least one (l^eek’s notice prior to the date of terminating the employment shall not be entitled to payment for such Holiday.
14.04	When any of the said Holidays fall within a Worker’s vacation period, he/she shall be entitled to an extra day’s pay and an extra day off.
14.05	Where New Year’s Day, Canada Day and/or Christmas Day falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Worker shall be granted a Holiday with pay on the working day immediately proceeding or following said Holiday.
ARTICLE 15 -VACATIONS WITH PAY
15.01	Every Worker who has completed a year’s service with a Manufacturer, as of July 1st of any year, is entitled to an annual vacation c£ two (2), Three (3), or four (4) weeks with pay, based on his/her Average Hourly Earnings, as that year of service relates to the vacation entitlement in clause 15.03.
15.02	(a) The period commencing the 1st day of July in a year and
terminating on the 30th day of June in the following year
shall be used for determining the number of hours of employment constituting a year’s service.
(b) A year’s service shall constitute 1800 hours of employment, including regular hours and overtime hours and excluding the premium portion of overtime, during the term referred to in 15.02 (a) hereof, but
(j)	there shall not be included in such computations of 1800 hours of employment the two (2) weeks of annual vacations constituting eighty (80) hours of employment;
(ii) where any Worker shall have worked less than 1800 hours of employment and if such lesser period shall be accounted for by:
1.	Consent to absence from employment given by a Manufacturer to the Worker, and/or
2.	Absence due to bona fide illness, and/or
3.	Absence due to lack of work, the aggregate of such absences up to a maximum cf two hundred and forty (240) hours cf employment shall be added to the actual number of hours worked if the result of such addition shall total 1800 hours or more, the Worker shall be deemed to have completed, for the purpose of this Article 15 a year’s service and shall receive an annual vacation of two (2), three (3), or four (4) weeks with pay as that year of service relates to the vacation entitlement in clause 15.03.
15.03	(a) Every Worker not otherwise entitled to full vacation pay, as provided in 15.01 hereof, shall be treated in the following manner:
Every Worker who has given four (4) years or less of service to the Manufacturer, but who does not have 1800 hours of employment in the vacation year shall be paid four (4%) percent of his/her earnings, exclusive of the overtime premium, or
Every Worker who has given (5) years and up to thirteen (13) years of service to the Manufacturer, but who does not have 1800 hours of employment in the vacation year shall be paid six (6%) percent of his/her earnings, exclusive of the overtime premium, or
Every Worker who has given fourteen (14) or more years or service to the Manufacturer, but who does not have 1800 hours of employment in the vacation year shall be paid eight (8%) percent of his/her earnings, exclusive of the overtime premium.
(b)	Every Worker with less than one (1) year’s service with the Manufacturer shall be entitled to a vacation period which shall be pro-rated on the basis that the number of hours of qualifying employment bears to 1800; a fraction of a day shall extend to a whole day’s vacation.
(c)	When a Worker has given one (l^ear and up to four (4) years of service in one factory, he/she shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation in that year. When a Worker has worked fifty percent (50%) of the regular working hours, in each of the four (4) years in the preceding ten (10) years, in one factory, he/she shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation for each year subsequent to the fourth (4th) year and up to the thirteenth (13th) year.
When a Worker has given fourteen (14) years or more of service in one factory, he/she shall be entitled to four (4) weeks of vacation in that year.
A year of service shall be defined as in clause 15.02.
15.04	A Worker shall be entitled to vacation with pay during the period from the 1st day cf July to the 1st day of September, as the Manufacturer may find convenient’ unless the Worker and the Manufacturer agree otherwise.
15.05	Total vacation pay shall be paid to each Worker just prior to commencement of such Worker‘s vacation, or in the case cf termination of employment, as the Employment Standard Code provides.
15.06	A Manufacturer may close his/her plant for the vacation providing he/she gives two (2) months written notice to the Union prior tc the vacations.
15.07	In the case of a Worker entitled to four (4) weeks vacation, three (3) weeks may be taken consecutively, during the vacation period as per clause 15.04, and the fourth (4th) week shall be taken any time up to January 31st of the following
year.
ARTICLE 16 -WAGE RATES AND RELATED FACTORS
16.01	In all questions of wages, rates, our Garment Industry in Manitoba is a separate entity whose wages are affected by local conditions prevailing in our own industry here.
16.02	The Manufacturer shall submit to the Union, upon request, quarterly statements indicating the following information for each Worker.
(a)	Clock number and name.
(b)	Description of operation performed.
(c)	Average Hourly Earnings.
(d)	Actual Average Hourly Rate earned based on piecework calculations,
(e)	Actual hours worked
16.03	(A) CUTTERS
Increases shall be granted to the Cutters in the following stages:
1.	Two percent (2%) effective August I 2005;
2.	Two percent (2%) effective December 15, 2007.
(B)	TIME WORKERS
Increases shall be granted to the Time Workers in the following stages:
1.	Two percent (2%) effective August 1,2005;
2.	Two percent (2%) effective December 15, 2007.
(C)	PIECEWORKERS
Increases shall be granted to the Piece Workers in the following stages:
1.	Two percent (2%) effective August 1,2005;
2.	Two percent (2%) effective December 15, 2007.
16.04	All wages shall be paid weekly or biweekly unless otherwise agreed to by the Union and the individual Manufacturer.
16.05	Samples are to be paid for on time work rates.
16.06	Time work shall not be the basis of payment where piecework prices are provided for, except as provided herein.
16.07	All increases as provided in Article 16.03 shall be compounded.
ARTICLE 17 - CLASSES OF CUTTERS
There shall be three (3) classes of Cutters, namely, First Class Cutters, Second Class Cutters and Apprentices or Third Class Cutters.
First Class Cutters shall make markers and grade patterns to the extent of adjusting such pattern up and down one (Isize.
Second Class Cutters shall be fully responsible for his/her lay by taking the marker, checking it for omissions, laying up and cutting properly.
Each Manufacturer shall employ at least one (1) First Class Cutter except where such Manufacturer (i.e. the proprietor thereof) himself does all the marking in such factory.
The Association agrees that the Cutter’s minimum hourly rates shall be as follows for the period effective December 15, 2004 to December 14, 2009.
CLASS	DEC.
15/04
First Class	$12,748
Second Class
(1st year)	$12,436
(2nd year)	$12,528
Third Class
(1st year)	$12,127
(2nd year)	$12,295
(3rd year)	$12,276
AUG.	DEC.
15/05	15/07
$13,003	$13,263
$12,685	$12,939
$12,779	$13,035
$12,370	$12,617
$12,541	$12,792
$12,522	$12,772
17.01
17.02
17.03
ARTICLE 18 - ESTABLISHING PIECEWORK RATES
18.01	Line System
The Worker shall be paid his/her previous Average Hourly Earnings until:
[a)	The Manufacturer shall set a piece rate to fit the new condi-
tions on the job. However, the piece-work rate must be set within two (2) weeks, unless the Manufacturer and the Union agree to another mutually, acceptable time.
(b)	If after working on the operation for a period of two (2) weeks, the Worker feels that the new piece rate is inadequate, a complaint to that affect shall be submitted by the Shop Steward. The Manufacturer shall then recheck the rate and meet with the Union Representative.
(c)	In the event that the meeting referred to in sub-paragraph (b) hereof does not result in settlement of the complaint, the dispute may then be dealt with as provided for in Article 8 hereof.
18.02	If, after a further period of two (2) weeks, no Grievance has been submitted, it is assumed that the Union has accepted the new piece rate price.
18.03	Where significant numbers of Workers, in any factory are not able to achieve piecework earning in excess of the provincial minimums, on existing piecework rates, a Union Time Study Engineer, in the conjunction with Management, shall have the right to study the operations involved, using accepted engineering practices. The Manufacturer shall be notified, in advance, of the name and qualifications of the Time Study Engineer, and the time and date of the proposed study. If no agreement is reached the matter will be dealt with under Article 8.
18.04	Motion and Time Study Analysis Summaries for all flew operations and rate changes shall be available on the Manufacturer’s premises for examination by a person qualified in such activities and authorized by the Union.
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	A Worker who has three (3) or more years cf employment shall be entitled to leave of absence, without pay, for a period not to exceed eight (8) weeks, if compassionate reasons shall arise. On his/her return he/she shall be reinstated in his/her former position without loss of seniority. A grant of a leave of absence shall be given to a Worker, in writing, and a copy thereof sent to the Union.
19.02	A Worker, after twelve (12) consecutive months of employment who submits to his/her employer a written application at least four (4) weeks in advance, shall be entitled to maternity, paternity and/or adoption leave, as the case may be, in accordance
with the provisions of the Employment Insurance Act, and Provincial Employment Standards Code, as amended from time to time. A Worker who has taken leave under the terms of this Article and/or the Legislation wishes to resume his/her employment shall be reinstated by the Manufacturer in the position occupied by him/her with no loss of seniority.
19.03	All time spent on contract negotiations and/or leave taken pursuant to Clause 19.04 and/or Clause 19.05 shall not be considered as leave of absence in Clause 19.01.
19.04	Workers selected as delegates to any Labour Conference or training session may be granted a leave of absence, without pay, with the Manufacturer’s consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. This leave of absence shall not exceed five (5) working days.
19.05	If any Worker shall have reasonable grounds for requiring a leave of absence of five (5) days, the Manufacturer shall not unreasonably withhold his consent to such absence, it being understood and agreed, for the purpose hereof, that the term “leave of absence” is exclusive of any absence due to bona fide illness.
19.06	A Worker on a bona fide leave of absence shall accumulate seniority and upon return from such leave shall be reinstated to his/her former position.
ARTICLE 20 - UNDERPAYMENT OR OVERPAYMENT TO WORKERS
20.01	If a Manufacturer is found to have underpaid any Worker, contrary to the terms of this Agreement, the Union shall have the right to demand, and the Manufacturer shall pay to such Worker, the amount underpaid. When overpayment occurs, due to an error on the part of the Manufacturer or the Workers, and if the Union agrees that such an error occurred then the Manufacturer shall be entitled to deduct the overpayment over a reasonable time. In the event that the Union does not agree, the matter may be dealt with under the provisions of Article 8.
ARTICLE 21 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
21.01	Each Manufacturer agrees to give notice, to the Union, of any technological change that he intends to effect, if it is likely to affect the terms and conditions, or the security, of employment of a significant number of employees in the unit or alter signifi-
cantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated. Such notice shall be given at least ninety (90) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected.
21.02	The notice referred to in Clause 21.01 shall be in writing and shall state;
(a)	the nature of the technological change, and
(b)	the day on which the Manufacturer proposes to effect the technological change, and
(c)	the approximate number and type of Workers likely to be affected by the technological change; and
(d)	the effect the technological change is likely to have on the terms and conditions, or security, of employment of the Workers affected or the alterations that is likely to be made to the basis upon the Collective Agreement was negotiated.
21.03	When a Manufacturer gives notice under this Article then the Union may serve notice upon said Manufacturer to commence collective bargaining with a view to eliminate or reduce the impact of the technology change by the revision of the Collective Agreement or the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement according to the terms of the Labour Relations Act applying to technological change.
21.04	Either party to this Collective Agreement may submit to Arbitration, the question of whether or not the technological change is likely to affect the terms and conditions, or security of employment of a significant number of workers in the unit, or to alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated, and if the Single Arbitrator finds, in his/ her Award that the technological change is likely to effect the terms and conditions, or security of employment of a significant number of Workers in the unit, or to alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated, then such Award shall be deemed to be notice under the terms of this Article.
ARTICLE 22 - UNION BULLETIN BOARD
22.01 Each Manufacturer agrees to furnish a suitable bulletin board, or boards, and to provide a space for the Union to install a hot file of hot file (s) for the use of the Union and such board (s) shall be located in a conspicuous place in the area where the Workers are working, or lunch rooms, but in any event, at least

one (1) such bulletin board and hot file on each floor of the Manufacturer's premises.
ARTICLE 23 - UNION LABEL
23.01	The Association acknowledges that the use of Union Labels on garments manufacturer by Association members should be encouraged. The Association agrees that within the limits of its ability to do so, it will urge members to use such labels.
ARTICLE 24 - INJURY ON THE JOB
24.01	Each Manufacturer agrees that if a Worker is injured on the job and requires the attention of a Medical Practitioner.
(a)	Should the accident happen during the first half of a shift the Worker will be paid a total of four (4) hours.
(b)	Should the accident happen during the second half of a shift the Worker will be paid for a full shift
ARTICLE 25 - DISCOUNTS AT FACTORY OUTLETS
25.01	Workers shall be entitled to a manufacturer’s discount at the factory outlets of Manufacturers that are open to the public, on presentation by the Worker of a UNITE HERE! MB Joint Council, Local 459 membership card with proper identification.
ARTICLE 26 - MISCELLANEOUS
26.01	In accordance with the spirit of this Agreement, all parties pledge themselves to co-operate in making the arrangement successful, and to use their influence and best efforts for the promotion and development of goodwill; it being understood that it is not the intention that this Agreement shall operate in any way so as to restrict output or production, nor impede the processes of manufacture or management, but to encourage maximum production with minimum waste and fair equitable treatment to everyone concerned.
26.02	Nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to make any Manufacturer responsible or liable for the covenants, agreements, acts or omissions of any other Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 27 - DURATION AND REVISION OF AGREEMENT
27.01	It is hereby understood and agreed that this Agreement shall continue and remain in full force and effect up to the close of business on December 14, 2009, and thereafter from year to year, unless either the Union or the Manufacturers give written notice to the other of its desire to revise this Agreement, or to conclude a new Collective Agreement for any period after December 14, 2009. The said written notice may be given at any time after the 1st day of October, and not later than the 15th day of November, in any year during which the said Agreements expires.
This Agreement may be re-opened by mutual agreement of both parties.
ARTICLE 28 - OLD HEALTH FUND - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
28.01	Under the Collective Agreement between parties that was effective December 14, 2000, the “old Health Fund” which was co-managed by the Union and Manufacturers through UNITE, Local 459 and Garment Manufacturers Health & Welfare and Pension Fund Inc. was wound up as of February 28, 2001, and replaced as of that date with the Benefit Rights Fund. This Article describes the transition between the old Health Fund and the new Benefit Rights Fund. In particular, it describes the respective rights and responsibilities of the employers, Union, and the Workers through the transitional process.
28.02	The old Health Fund was responsible for payment of legitimate claims in the following categories, as follows:
(a)	All covered benefits under the earlier Collective Agreements which had transaction dates for the covered benefit on or before February 16, 2001, except as provided in (b) and (c) below.
(b)	Dental services that were assigned by Manitoba Blue Cross to the premiums paid for the period up to February 28, 2001.
(c)	For weekly indemnity claims that initiated prior to the date of ratification and continue beyond that date, the old Health Fund was responsible for the coverage of any difference in waiting periods between the old and new benefit up to a maximum of three days.
(d)	It was stipulated that any eligible claims, as above, must be
received by the old Health Fund for approval, by March 23, 2001, and that any claims submitted or received by the Health Fund after that date will not be and are not the responsibility of the old Health Fund.
28.03	As of March 23, 2001 and on the basis of the final accounting of all claims received, approved, and established as payable as of that date, and as well, the audited financial statement of the Old Health Fund, it is agreed that the old Health Fund has fulfilled its benefits management obligations to the Workers.
28.04	The old Health Fund will undertake such actions as are necessary to wind up the Fund, including a final audited statement and such joint actions with the parties for changes or amendments to the statute that created the Fund, as may be required.
28.05	During the windup period, it is agreed that the Board of Trustees of the old Health Fund shall continue to be bound by the terms of the prior agreement in respect of the eligibility claims, and by the rules and procedures established by the old Health Fund, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.
28.06	The parties agree that in consideration of the Manufacturers making their Health Fund contributions in respect of Health Benefit as required under the prior agreement to February 28, 2001, the Manufacturers are released from any obligations in regard to the operation of the old Health Fund.
28.07	The parties agree that the old Health Fund has completed all its obligations as set out in this Article, and from an administrative perspective, has ceased operations. The parties note that the formal windup of the old Health Fund will be undertaken in concert with the windup of the old Pension Fund, as discussed in Article 30.
ARTICLE 29 - UNION HEALTH PLAN
29.01	The Manufacturers agree that they will pay to the Union Health Plan a contribution for each Worker for health benefits, as follows:
(a) Six percent (6%) of wages, per month, for each nonprobationary Worker, from December 15, 2004 to July 31,
2005;
(b) Four percent (4%) of wages, per month for each nonprobationary Worker, effective August 1,2005.
29.02	It is understood and agreed that the responsibility of the Manufacturers to provide for health benefits is limited to the contributions made to the Benefit Rights Fund as listed under Article 29,01. It is solely the responsibility of the Union to select health benefits that will be offered to the Workers from time to time, to set rules and procedures regarding eligibility for benefits, and to administer the Benefit Rights Fund.
29.03	It is understood that the new Benefit Rights Fund shall not be or be deemed to be part of this Agreement and shall not be subject to the grievance procedure or to the arbitration provisions contained in this Agreement. Any decisions as to the benefits to be provided by the Union to its members, the administration of the Benefit Rights Fund and the resolution of any disputes in that regard shall be solely the responsibility of the Union. This provision does not exclude or remove the rights of the Union to the grievance and arbitration procedures in the Agreement if a Manufacturer is delinquent in their contributions to the Benefit Rights Fund.
29.04	The Manufacturers agree that they shall have no further right to administer or control the Benefit Rights Fund or its benefits.
ARTICLE 30 - OLD PENSION FUND - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
30.01	Under the Collective Agreement between the parties that was effective December 15, 2000 the Union and Manufacturers agreed to terminate and wind up the Pension Fund which was jointly managed by the Union and Manufacturers through UNITE , Local 459 and Garment Manufacturers Health Welfare and Pension Fund Inc., effective as of March 31, 2001. This Article sets out describes the transition between the old Pension Fund and the new Retirement Benefit, in particular, it describes the respective rights and responsibilities of the Employers, Union, and the Workers through the transitional process.
30.02	Current service payments and accumulations of years of service under the old Pension Fund accumulated to March 31, 2001 only. The final pension liabilities for the Manufacturers was determined as of that date by the final actuarial reports
required by the Pension Benefits Act as at the termination date of the Pension Fund, and later dates as required, and are limited to those liabilities as established therein.
30.03	Any periods of employment accumulated after March 31, 2001 will have no bearing on the benefits or liabilities of the terminated Pension Fund. Any future retirement benefits for existing Workers, former Workers, and retired Workers after March 31, 2001 shall be limited to those established under Article 31 only.
30.04	The trustees of the Pension Fund are directed to:
(a)	Implement the windup in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Benefits Act and regulations;
(b)	Initiate and approve the necessary plan text changes to terminate the current Pension Fund;
(c)	Terminate the Pension Fund in a timely and orderly manner with due regard to the rights of existing, former and retired Workers under the Pension Benefits Act;
(d)	Manage the Pension Fund, as required, until all obligations of the Pension Fund are completed.
30.05	The Pension Fund, the Union and the Association will undertake such steps as are necessary to wind up the Fund, including joint actions for changes or amendments to the statute that created the Fund, as may be required.
ARTICLE 31 - UNION RETIREMENT BENEFIT
31.01	The Manufacturers agree that they will pay to the Union a Retirement Benefit for each Worker, as follows:
(a)	Three percent (3%) of wages, per month, for each nonprobationary Worker, from December 15, 2004 to July 31, 2005;
(b)	Two percent (2%) of wages, per month, for each nonprobationary Worker, from December 15, 2006 to December 15, 2007; and
(c)	Two percent (2%) of wages, per month, for each nonprobationary Worker, from December 15, 2008 to December 14, 2009.
31.02	it is understood and agreed that the Union shall establish and maintain a program of individual RRSP benefits on behalf of each eligible Worker, with the proportional contributions made by the Manufacturers under Article 31.01 for each Worker, to be credited to that Worker's RRSP program. It is solely the responsibility of the Union to select the RRSP program that will be offered to the Workers from time to time, to set rules and procedures regarding eligibility for benefits, and to administer the Retirement Benefit Program.
31.03	The responsibility of the Manufacturers to provide for retirement benefits is limited to the contributions made to the Union as listed under Article 31.01. It is understood and agreed that the Manufacturers fulfil their obligations under this Article by making the contributions herein to the Union. The obligations of the Manufacturers to make payments shall in no manner whatsoever extend to the performance by the Union or its designates of its obligations in respect of the retirement benefit.
31.04	It is also understood and agreed that the Union's management of the retirement benefit shall not be or be deemed to be part of this Agreement, and shall not be subject to the grievance procedure or the arbitration provisions contained in this Agreement. The administration of the retirement benefit and the resolution of any disputes in that regard shall be the sole responsibility of the Union. This provision does not exclude or remove the rights of the Union to the grievance and arbitration procedures in the Agreement if a Manufacturer is delinquent in its contributions to the Union for the retirement benefit.
31.05	The Manufacturers agree that they shall have no further right to administer or control the Union Retirement Benefit Program.
ARTICLE 32 - REMITTANCE OF CONTRIBUTIONS UNDER THE AGREEMENT
32.01	Each Manufacturer will forward to the Union monthly, by the end of the following month;
(a)	All health and retirement benefits contributions for pay periods that were completed in the previous month; and
(b)	A list of the names of the Workers for whom the contributions have been made, and for each name on the list, the wages paid for each Worker for the pay periods reported and the amount of the contributions allocated to each Worker.
32.02	Should a Manufacturer be found to be in violation of the Collective Agreement by not remitting the contribution to the Union for health and/or retirement benefits as per the Agreement, then, after receiving written notice of the arrears, the Manufacturer shall pay a penalty of 1.5% interest, compounded monthly, on the unpaid balance.
ARTICLE 33 - TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION OF BENEFITS FOR THE OLD HEALTH AND PENSION PLANS
33.01	The Union and the Association delegate to the Fund Board the responsibility of administering the remaining health and pension benefits during the windup process, in accordance with this Agreement.
33.02	The Union and Association agree to consult on the ongoing administrative requirements, and to implement such changes by mutual agreement, as required.
33.04	It is understood and agreed that the Union, in selecting its health and retirement benefits, will have the exclusive right to establish its preferred service delivery mechanism for its health and retirement benefits programs.
ARTICLE 34 - WORKPLACE SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM
34.01	The Manufacturer and the Union agree to establish Safety and Health Programs in all Plants in accordance with the Workplace Safety and Health Act.
34.02	BASIC OBJECTIVES OF A DEMOCRATIC SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM
(a) The Manitoba Workplace, Safety and Health Act provides for the establishment of Joint Labour-Management Safety and Health Committees in individual workplaces or classes or workplaces designated by the Provincial Cabinet.
(b)	Workers and Manufacturers share an equal concern in preventing accidents and ill health arising out of conditions in the workplace. The intent of the Joint Safety and Health Committee is to enhance the ability of Workers and Manufacturers to resolve safety and health concerns reasonably and co-co-operatively. They should do so on their own, with a minimum of government involvement.
(c)	The specific objectives of a Safety and Health Committee include:
(1)	assisting Workers and the Manufacturer to identify, record, examine, evaluate and resolve safety and health concerns in the Workplace;
(2)	developing practical procedures and conditions to help achieve the highest possible degrees of safety and health in the Workplace; and
(3)	promoting education and training programs to develop detailed knowledge of safety and health concerns and responsibilities in each individual in the Workplace.
ARTICLE 35 - HARASSMENT AND DISCRIMINATION
The Manufacturers and the Union share an equal concern over the issues of harassment and discrimination in the Workplace and are fully supportive of the principles contained in the Manitoba Human Rights Act.
ARTICLE 36 - BINDING CLAUSE
36.01	Where in this Agreement the masculine or the singular has been used, it shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter or plural, as the case may be, as required by the context of this Agreement.
36.02	Time shall in all respects be the essence of this Agreement.
36.03	This Agreement shall ensure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have here unto set their hands and seals the day and year first above written.
GARMENTMANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN CANADA
UNITE HERE! MB Joint Council Local 459
per:
per:
David Rich, President
[JuAy’tPyCA, j)
Victoria Dimawala
APPENDIX A - LIST OF MANUFACTURERS
The following list comprises the manufacturers that the Garment Manufacturers of Western Canada has stated that it has legally represented in the negotiation as an employer association, and on whose behalf it has executed this Agreement.
This list of firms also comprises the list of firms whose Workers UNITE HERE! MB Joint Council, Local 459 has represented in this negotiation and on whose behalf it has executed this Agreement.
GEMINI FASHIONS OF CANADA LTD PEERLESS GARMENTS LTD. RICHLU SPORTSWEAR LTD.