SOURCE	u n icnl	
EFF.	:fa'/2J15	
TERM. <	n	\zi 14-:
N*. OF EMPIOWS		340 :
NOMiRI O’lMFtOifs		—Ji A~
COMBINED AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
WESTERN GLOVE WORKS LTD. AND
UNITED GARMENT-WORKERS OF AMERICA
C.
DECEMBER 15_, 198?

m

c')o9 11)0'^
INDEX
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
1	-	Definitions
2	-	Recognition
3	- Access to Plants
4	- Conditions of Employment
5	- Supply of Workers
6	-	Prohibitions
7	- Transfer from one Operation to Another
8	-	Settlement of Disputes
9	-	Hours of Work and Overtime
10	- Breakdown of Machinery
11	- Rest Period
12	- Lay-offs and Temporary Help
13	- Discharge and Discipline
14	- Holidays with Pay
15	- Vacations with Pay
18	■ Wage Rated and Related Factors
17	- Cutters
18	- Establishing Piecework Prices
19	- Establishing or Changing Piecework
Prices
20	- Underpayment to Workers
21	- Miscellaneous
2 2 - Leave of Absence
23	- Health £ Safety
24	- Goodwill
25	- Benefits
2S - Duration and Revision of Agreement
Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 5 Page 7 Page 10 Page 1 2 Page 12 Page 1 3 Page 1 3 Page 1 4 Page 1 5 Page 17 Page 1 8 Page 1 9 Page 2 0
Page 20 Page 21 Page 22 Page 23 Page 23
a. a Faqe~2?'
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT made in duplicate as and from the 15th day of December, 1989,
BETWEEN :
WESTERN GLCME WORKS LTD. (hereinafter called the “Manufacturer”),
OF THE FIRST PART
and
UNITED GARMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 35 (hereinafter called the "Union"),
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS the Manufacturer is engaged in the manufacture of overalls, shirts, playsuits, pants, wind-breakers, sports apparel and other garments,
AND WHEREAS the Union is composed of Workers engaged in various occupations i n connection with such manufacturing who are or will be from time to time employed by the manufacturer in their factories.
THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS I n this agreement:
(a)	“Average Hourly Rate” or “Average Hourly Earnings” means:
Average hourly rate over a period of six (6) months immediately preceding the application of the average hourly rate or earnings based
on the number of regular hours worked by such employee divided into the total earnings over the said six (6) months period during such regular hours. Piece work average to be calculated on actual hours performed on piece work. The six (6) month period shall be calculated from the 15th day of December to the 14th day of June and from the 15th day of June to the 14th day of December.
(b)	“Cutting Room Help” where referred to in this Agreement or schedule means:
Personnel working the Cutting Room, other than those using cutting knives or shears for actual production purposes.
2
<c1 "Hoi idav" means:
Years Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day
(d)	"Manufacturer" means:
An employer who i s signatory to the Memorandum of Agreement.
(e)	"Worker" means:
An employee of a Manufacturer but for the purpose of this Agreement shall exclude mechanics, office staff, sales staff, foremen, foreladies.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
The Union recognizes the Manufacturer i n the same manner as the Manufacturer recognizes the Union.
No Manufacturer shall hereafter make any agreement with any individual workers nor exact or accept any cash deposit or other security from a worker nor enter into any agreement with any individual worker guaranteeing any length of employment.
The Union and its officials must not interfere with the discipline and management of the factories and must not restrict employment or curtail production.
The Manufacturer agrees that the Union is the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees of each member with reference to wages, hours and working conditions.
The Union recognizes that the Manufacturer has the exclusive control of matters relating to management and conduct of its business, the
Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
3
planning, processing and determining of methods of plant ooeration and the kind and use of equipment and materials.
2.06	Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the Manufacturer has the exclusive right to hire, promote, lay-off, to discipline and discharge employees for just cause.
2.07	Subject to the expressed provisions of this Agreement, these statements of management functions shall not be deemed to exclude other functions not specifically stated herein and any of the rights, powers or authorities which management has relating to management functions are retained exclusively by the Manufactuer, The Manufactuer shall not exercise the right to direct the workforce in a discriminatory, unequitable,or unfair manner.
2.08 The employers recognize United Garment Workers of America as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all workers of Western Glove factories in the Province of Manitoba.
ARTICLE 3 - ACCESS TO PLANTS
The business representative of the Union shall be admitted, at all reasonable time during business hours to the premises of the Manufacturer when on legitimate business for the Union.
ARTICLE 4 - CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
1.01	Every worker engaged in the manufacturing of garments in the factories of the Manufacturer shall be not less than sixteen (16) years of age and must be a member in good standing of the Union. But, all learners and beginners shall be given six (8) weeks time to become members of the Union.
4.02	The Manufacturer shall deduct from the wages earned by each member
4
of the union the monthly dues of the Union as the Union may determine from time to time and also any initiation fees (and arrears in dues and assessments officially requested by the Union).
4.03	Workers must not be engaged in Union activities during working hours o r on the Manufacturer'spremises and must be at work on time, must not be absent without permission, but such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Manufacturer.
4.04	In keeping with Union principles, the quality standards as set out by the Manufacturer shall be maintained by all Union members.
ARTICLE 5_____PPLY OF WORKERS
5.01	The Union agrees to co-operate in supplying to the Manufacturer a constant and adequate supply of workers as required in each factory. It is the intent of this agreement that the Union shall use all possible means to assure such adequate supply of help.
5.02	The Union undertakes and agrees, forthwith after the execution of this agreement, to maintain a special department of the Union for the unionizing of all non-union shops in this district and the Union further agrees that it will make a concerted and vigorous effort to accelerate the unionizing of non-Union shops, with the object of establishing uniformity and stability in this industry in this district.
5
ARTICLE 6 ~ PROHIBITIONS
6.01	No contracting or sub-contracting shall be permitted in any factory or shop of the Manufacturer if there is not sufficient work to keep the factories or shops going.
6.02	No Manufacturer shall give out work to the home of any person.
6.03	Copies of this agreement between the Union and the Manufacturer shall be lodged with the Department of Labour.
6.04	All knowledge obtained by the Union representatives in the various factories i n the course of performing their Union duties are to be kept strictly confidential by them and must not be divulged to any other Manufacturer.
6.05 No Manufacturer shall engage or take part in any lock-outs.
6.06 No worker shall take part in any strikes, slow-downs, sit-downs, stoppages, unusual holidays, or a cessation of work, or slowing down of work of any nature or kind whatsoever.
ARTICLE 7 ~ TRANSFER FROM ONE OPERATION TO ANOTHER
7.01	The average hourly rate for a two (2) week period to be paid in case
of a transfer from one operation to another providing:
(a)	that the request is made by the Manufacturer at a time when the employee has sufficient work at his/her own operation:
(b)	that the transfer is not of a seasonal type when this is normal to the operation of the Manufacturer;
(c)	that the transfer i s not made as a result of change-overs i n types of garments being made by the Manufacturer, also when this is inconsistent to the operation of the Manufacturer;
6
(di workers shall not refuse to do any work which they are given whether same consists of a transfer from one job to another or not, provided, however, that a worker may reject a transfer from his or her operation to another if there is no work available at his or her own operation.
7.02	I n case	of dissatisfaction with the work given, or the transfer made,
workers	must continue to do such work as i s	given or to which they	have
been transferred, but may complain in the manner set forth in Article 8 hereof, and the procedure therein provided for shall then be proceeded with, so that the complaint may be heard and adjudicated upon through the machinery provided by said Article 8.
7.03	Whenever there shall be a breach of any	of the provisions of	this
Article	by the workers, or by any of them,	no negotiations shall	take
place, and no complaints shall be heard or adjudicated upon, until all workers who have committed such breach are back to work i n the usual way unless the parties otherwise agree. If the worker commits a breach of the provisions of this Article 7, then the Unionwill be held fully responsible for such breach and agrees to discipline all workers who commit the same.
7.04	Wages earned on piece work shall not be utilized in any part of any working day or week to cover work performed on time work transfer or a second operation. Employees who have an operation which provides short hours in each day shall be granted a second operation to provide 40 hours whenever possible (seniority shall prevail).
7.05	When an operator is transferred to an alternate operation she/he shall be paid a split incentive bonus as follows:
(a)	average hourly earnings or
(b)	split incentive
Split incentive shall consist of the following breakdown:
Example:	Piecework tickets - 80% + 50% of average hourly
earnings, provided the operator does not make more than his/her average piece work on direct piece work rate. The above percentage can be changed according to the severity of the change. The above is to apply if the operator is not on his/her regular operation.
Example:	When an operator is requested to do other work on
his/her own machine with new methods which are entirely different to his/her regular operation this shall be considered a transfer.
\Nhen an operator has one or more established operations on a regular basis the additional operations shall not be considered a transfer.
7.06	No utility operator will be given any operation which will cause shortage of work on any particular line.
Floaters shall be laid off by seniority. No floater shall be guaranteed a forty (40) hour week when other senior employees are being laid off.
Consideration shall be given when delivery problems are in question. Operators out of work by seniority shall be offered a transfer to operations available that are not assigned to any particular operator.
ARTICLE 8 - SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
8.01	A grievance is any controversy, complaint, misunderstanding or disput* arising as to the meaning, application or observance of any of thf provisions of t h is agreement.
8
8.02	All grievances shall be taken up on Manufacturer’s time during regular working hours for the settlement of disputes and grievances with no deduction of wages and/or benefits of such representative for time spent during working hours.
8.03	If a Shop Steward is required to be temporarily absent from his/her station or department in connection with a grievance, he/she shall first notify the immediate Supervisor in that section or department before leaving his/her station. He/she must then report to the Supervisor in charge of the secti on visited before contacting any employee in the said section.
8.04	It is agreed that a desirable feature of the grievance procedure will be to settle all grievances promptly, and that consultation in any step of the procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that friction and animosity will be reduced to a minimum.
8.05	After the initial occurrence of the grievance a Shop Steward shall be present at a I I meetings between Management and Employee.
8.06	Step One
fin employee having a grievance shall take it up with his or her secti on Supervisor immediately. The Supervisor shall give his or her decision within two (2) working days.
Step Two
■ ■f^he grievance is not settled as outlined in Step One, then the grievance shall be submitted by a Shop Steward in writing to the Plant Manager within five (5) working days from the time the grievance is presented under Step One, and the Plant Manager shall render his/her decision in writing to the Shop Steward within two (2) working days from the time the written grievance was received by him/her.
9
Step Three
If the decision of the Plant Manager i s not accepted by the Local Union then the matter will be discussed at a meeting within five (5) working days with the Business Agent and Local Grievance Committee. If the matter is not resolved then the matter can be submitted to arbitration by either party.
8.07	Both parties can request a reasonable extension of time limits stated in this grievance procedure provided that such extension is mutually agreed upon by both parties in writing.
8.08	If the grievance or complaint is an error in calculation, then all remuneration due the employee shall be made retroactive to the date of the i n iti a I occurrence.
8.09	If the said decision is not accepted by either of the parties to the grievance, or ifno decision is rendered by the Grievance Committee as required by 8.06 hereof, then anyone cf the parties so affected may require that a Board of Arbitration be appointed to finally settle the grievance and for such purpose shall service notice i n writing upon the other party setting out:
(a)	The names of all the Manufacturers and Workers involved in the dispute;
(b)	The name of the Arbitrator it has appointed;
(c)	The issues and/or complaints touching upon the grievance which i t is requesting the Board of Arbitration to settle.
8.10	Within five (5) working days of receipt of the aforesaid notice, the other party named therein shall name the Arbitrator it has appointed and forward notice of such appointment to the first named Arbitrator and the opposite party setting out the issues and/or complaints which
10
it is asking the Board of Arbitration to settle. If either party fails to appoint an Arbitrator within the time specified, the Minister of Labour shall be requested by either party to make such appointment on behalf of the party so failing to appoint.
8.11	Within seven (7) calendar days after the appointment of the second Arbitrator, the two (2) appointed Arbitrators shall appoint a third Arbitrator, who shall act as impartial Chairman of the Arbitration Board, but if the two (2) Arbitrators cannot agree within the time specified upon the appointment of a third Arbitrator, then either of the appointed Arbitrators shall forthwith request the Minister of Labour to appoint such third Arbitrator who shall act as Impartial Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
8.12	The hearing of the Arbitration Board shall be limited to the issues set forth in the notices referred to in paragraphs 8.09 and 8.10.
8.13	The Arbitration Board shall hear and determine the issues and/or complaints with a I I reasonable dispatch and .the decision of a majority of the Arbitrators shall be the Award of the Board, and the Award of the Arbitration Board shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement contained, the parties hereto may extend any of the time limits specified in this Article for such further period as they may mutually agree.
8.14	Each party shall pay the costs of its appointed Arbitrator and one-half (1/2) of the cost of the impartial Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
ARTJCLE- 9 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
9.01	The standard work week shall consist of forty (40) regular hours of employment consisting of eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday
11
inclusive in each calendar week; provided that where a Holiday occurs on any day within a standard work week, the regular hours of employment shall exclude eight (8) hours per Holiday.
9.02	Whenever the Manufacturer requires overtime work the Union and the Workers must co-operate f u I I y whenever possible.
9.03	OVERTIME DURING STANDARD WORK WEEK
(a)	All work in excess of eight (8) regular hours per day during the standard work week shall be considered as overtime where regular is the normal operating time for that shift.
(b)	Commencing on the 15th day of December 1969, all work in excess of eight (8) hours per day during the standard work week shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one- half (1/2 ).
(c)	No overtime shall be performed on a Union Meeting night, which falls on the first Wednesday of every month (excluding July and August).
9.04	OVERTIME ON SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS
(a)	All work	done	on	Saturdays shall be considered as overtime and
shall be	paid	for	at the rate of time and one-half (1/2).
(b)	All work	done	on	a Holiday, shall be considered as overtime am
shall be	paid	for	at the rate of triple (3) time, that is doubl
(2) time for the work performed, plus payment for the holiday a provided by Article 15 hereof.
9.05	No Worker shall engage in any overtime work i n any factory or shop * this industry other than the factory of his or her own Manufactun without the explicit written consent of the said Manufacturer.
12
ARTICLE-10 - BREAKDOWN OF MACHINERY
10.01	When a worker reports for work, he/she shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) consecutive hours of work or four (4) hours of pay at the average hourly rate unless he/she has previously been advised by the Manufacturer not to report for work.
10.02	The provisions set out in sub-paragraph 10.01 hereof shall not apply when the plant is unable to commence operation due to any matter, cause or thing beyond the control of the Manufacturer.
10.03	A worker must report to a Foreman or Forelady when his/her machine js not in suitable working order, piece work average shall be paid for loss of time. The Worker will again repo rt to the Foreman or Fore lady who will give him/her other employment or permission t o go home. Where a machine delay has occurred, after the first 15 minutes waiting time, piece work average shall be paid for loss of time.
10.04	The employee must report breakdown of machinery to the Supervisor. The supervisor shall mark paper or punch out card to record time. No operator shall be penalized because of delay by the mechanic servicing another machine.
10.05	When the operator is requested to move to another machine of the sanv type on a temporary basis while his/her own mach-ne is being repaired the temporary machine shall be serviced (thread etc.) to enable th operator to perform his/her piece work rate.
ARTICLE 11 - REST PERIOD
11.01	There are to be two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods, one "organize and the other to be arranged for the Manufacturer.
13
11.02	VWren two (2) hours of overtime is requested there shall be a fifteen (15) minute break granted for supper. \Mien three (3) hours overtime is requested, twenty (20) minutes shall be granted.
ARTICLE 12 - LAY-OFFS AND TEMPORARY HELP
12.01	Whenever lay-offs are necessary, they are to be put into effect on a departmental or sectional seniority basis. During slack seasons the Manufacturer shall have the option of dividing the work so that each worker will receive approximately an equal amount of work or of dividing the hours on equal working time.
12.02 No temporary help shall be employed by the Manufacturer unless there is a full week's work for the permanent workers. The Union is to supply all temporary help when available provided the same is acceptable to the Manufacturer.
12.03	When a lay-off for two (2) weeks or more becomes necessary, employees laid off shall be re-employed in order of their seniority on at operational basis providing there is no make up in pay before any ne1 employees are hired.
ARTICLE 13 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
13.01 Full power of discharge and discipline lies with the Manufacturer bi this power shall be exercised with justice and with regard for t reasonable rights of the worker. The power of discharge shall exercised only through a fully authorized and responsible represent tive of the management.
13.02	No worker shall be discharged or discriminated against for Un activities and the Union shall not require the discharge cf any wor
14
unless such worker is replaced by the Union by another person satisfactory to the Manufacturer.
13.03	A I I Union members receive at least one written warning before being discharged or disciplined. The exception being those actions that could be construed as a serious offence.
13.04	The employer shall provide the Union with a copy of any written warning effecting the employees within the bargaining unit.
13.05	The record of any disciplinary action shall not be referred to or used against said employee at any time after twelve (12) months following such action.
ARTICLE 14
14.01 (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
- HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
Every worker who is a member of the Union shall receive pay for every Holiday based on his/her average hourly or piece work earnings, and such worker has worked the regular hours of work on the work days immediately preceding and succeeding the particular Holiday unless;
he/she has been prevented from so working by bona fide illness or
he/she has been absent with the consent of the Manufacturer provided that such absence does not exceed thirty (30) working days.
Any employee practising paragraph (b) more than twice within o given year could be subject to providing a medical certificate the Manufacturer's request.
If any worker shall have reasonable grounds for requiring a le; of absence of five (5) working days, the Manufacturer shall unreasonably withhold his consent to such absence, it being
15
understood and agreed, for the purpose hereof, that the term "leave of absence'' is exclusive of any absence due to bona fide i 1 1 ness,
14.02	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this agreement contained, every worker who is a member of the Union shall he paid for Christmas Day, New Year's Day and Boxing Day at the particular worker's average hourly or piece work earnings.
14.03	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this agreement contained, any worker who terminated his/her employment during the calendar week
i n which any of the aforementioned holidays occur without giving at least one (1) weeks's notice prior to the date of terminating the employment, shall not be entitled to payment for such holiday.
14.04	When any of the said holidays fall within a worker's vacation period, he/she shall be entitled to an extra day's pay in lieu thereof.
14.05	When any of the said holidays as set out in Article 1 , paragraph (c) falls on a Saturday or a Sunday same shall be observed on a Friday or Monday, whichever is agreed upon by management and the Union.
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
15.01	Every worker who completes a year's service with the Manufacturer a; of July 1st of any year is entitled to an annual vacation of two (2 weeks with pay based upon his/her average hourly earnings.
15.02	The period commencing the 1st day of July in any year and terminatin on the 30th day of June in the following year, shall be used fc determining the number of regular hours of employment constituting year's service.
15.03	Every worker who has completed one (1) year service shall be entitl to two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
16
15.04	Every workerwho has completed five (5) years service shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
15.05	Every worker who has completed fifteen (15) years continuous service with the Manuacturer shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay at the rate of 8X
The fourth (4) week vacation shall be taken at the discretion of the Manufacturer.
15.06	Every worker who has completed twenty-five (25) years of continuous service with the Manufacturer shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation with pay at the rate of 10%,
The fourth (4) and fifth (5) week shall be taken at the discretion of the Manufacturer.
15.07	Every worker not otherwise entitled to two (2)weeks vacation with pay as hereinbefore provided in this Article 15 shall be treated in the following manner:
Amount of Vacation Pay
(a)	Time Workers
Every worker shall be paid his or her regular hourly earnings prevailing at the beginning of his or her vacation.
( b) Piece Workers
Every worker who works on an incentive basis, the amount of vacation pay payable shall be calculated on his or her average weekly earnings for regular working hours during the six month immediately preceding the beginning of the vacation.
Every worker not entitled to the foregoing paragraphs (a) and (t shall be paid 4% of his/her earnings exclusive of overtime, fr< the date of commencement of his/her employment.
17
(d)	When a Holiday defined in Article 1, paragraph (c) occurs during the period of a vacation with pay, the period of vacation with pay shall be lengthened by one (1) working day.
15.08	A worker shall be entitled to vacation with pay during the period from the 15th day of May to the first day of September as the Manufacturer may find convenient, unless the worker and the Manufacturer agree otherwise.
15.09	Vacation pay shall be paid to each worker just prior to commencement of such worker’s vacation. In case of termination of employment, as the Vacation with Pay Act provides in Chapter V20 Article 10 and 1 1 .
15.10	The Manufacturer shall place a Vacation Schedule on the bulletin board no later than April 3 0th of each year thereafter to enable the employees to specify date and length of vacation time. Preference in scheduling of vacations shall be based on seniority. An employee shall receive an unbroken period of vacation unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the employee and the employer.
ARTICLE 16 - WAGE RATED AND RELATED FACTORS
16.01	In all questions of wage rates, our garment industry in Manitoba is a separate entity whose wages are affected by local conditions prevailing in our own industry here.
16.02	The Manufacturer shall submit to the Union upon request, semi-annual statements indicating the following information for each employee:
(a)	clock number and name
(b)	description of operations performed
(c)	average hourly earnings
18
16.03	TIME WDRK AND PIECE WORK
3% effective December 15, 1989 3% effective December 15, 1990
16.04	A supplementary pay of forty cents ($0.40) per hour shall be added to a I I work performed on piece work.
16.05	All wages shall be paid weekly unless otherwise agreed to by the Union and the Manufacturer.
16.06	Samples are to be paid for on time work rates.
16.07	Time work shall not be the basis of payment where piece work prices are provided.
16.08	Pressers piece work tickets shall be time studied on 10* differential.
16.09	Employees below base rate shall be reviewed and re-evaluated every six months by both Manufacturer and Union. Upon evaluation, one month shall be allowed for the employee to show improvement.
16.10	Implement a scale for all time workers according to departments.
16.11	Any changes in the Provincial minimum wage will result in the time workers scheduled rates to be adjusted accordingly.
ARTICLE 17 -____TTERS
17.01	There shall be three (3) classes of cutters, namely, First Clas Cutters, Second Class Cutters, Apprentices of Third Class Cutters First Class Cutters shall make markers and trade patterns to the exter of adjusting such patterns up and down one size; a Second Class Cutte shall be fully responsible for his/her lay by taking the markei checking it for omissions, laying up and cutting properly.
17.02	The Manufacturer shall employ at least one (1) First Class Cutt except where such Manufacturer (i.e. proprietor thereof himself/
19
herself does all the marking in such plant)
17.03	The Manufacturer agrees that the Cutter's minimum hourly rates shall be as follows for the period effective December 15, 1989 and December 15, 1990.
First Class
Second class (1st Year)
Second Class (2nd Year)
Third Class (by end of 1st year)
Third Class (by end of 2nd year)
Third Class (by end of 3rd year)
DEC. 15/89 $9.65 $9.25 $9.35
$8.85
$8.91
$9.02
DEC. 15/90 $9.93 $9.52 $9.62
$9.11
$9.17
$9.28
ARTICLE 18 - ESTABLISHING PIECE WORK PRICES
18.01	Line System
The worker shall be paid his or her previous average hourly earnings
until :
(a)	The Manufacturer shall set a piece rate price to fit the new conditions on the job.
(b)	If after working on the operaton for a period of two (2) weeks the worker feels that the new piece rate price is inadequate, a written complaint to that effect shall be submitted by the shop chairperson. The Manufacturer shall then re-check the rate anc meet with the Union representative for settlement;
(c)	In the event that the meeting referred to in subparagraph (b) hereof does not result in settlement of the complaint, the dispute may then be dealt with as provided i n Article 8 hereof.
18.02	If after a further period of two (2) weeks no written grievance has
20
been submitted, it is assumed that the Union has accepted the new piece rate price.
ARTICLE 19 - ESTABLISHING OR CHANGING PIECE WORK PRICES
19.01	Wage rates in effect after this contract is established are not to be changed unless new techniques are developed or new methods are instituted, and that to be done with the consent of the Manufacturer and the Union.
19.02	The Manufacturer shall furnish the Union Representative with copies of all rate notices, motion and time study analysis for all operations.
19.03	Where changes are made under new conditions, revised work methods, the Industrial Engineer shall provide a summary to verify the changes.
19.04	Upon introduction of a tentative or estimated standard the employee will be paid at his/her average hourly earnings for a period of two (2) weeks.
In the event that after two (2) weeks a finalized standard is not available, the operator shall be paid on a split incentive until such time as the finalized standard is issued.
ARTICLE 20 - UNDERPAYMENT TO WORKERS
20.01	if the Manufacturer is found to have underpaid any worker contrary tc the terms of this Agreement, the Union shall have the right to demanc and the Manufacturer shall pay to such worker the amount underpaid.
20.02	A t no time shall the piece work earned on established piece work price in any part of the day be utilized to cover make up owing to change.
21
ARTICLE 21 - MISCELLANEOUS
21.01	The Union undertakes and agrees not to request in the course of negotiations with any other employer conditions of work including rates of pay that are less favourable than those provided in this Agreement.
21.02	In accordance with the spirit of this Agreement, all parties pledge themselves to co-operate in making the arrangements successful, and to use their influence and best efforts for the promotion and development of goodwill; it being understood that it is not the intention that this Agreement shall operate in any way so as to restrict out-put or production nor impede processes of manufacture of management, but to encourage maximum production with minimum waste and fair equitable treatment to everyone concerned.
21.03 Nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to make any Manufacturer responsible or liable for the covenants, agreements, acts or omissions of any other Manufacturer.
21.04	The Manufacturer agrees to furnish a suitable bulletin board or boards for the use of the Union and such board shall be located in a conspicuous place in the area where the Workers are working, or lunch rooms, but in any event, at least one bulletin board on each floor of the Manufacturer's premises.
21.05	Piece work employees must submit all tickets for hours performed each day.
21.06	The Manufacturer shall attempt to have the Union label sewn into the garment.
ARTICLE 22
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
22
22.01	An employee	who has three (3)	or more	years	of	employment	shall be
entitled to	a leave of absence	without	pay for	a	period not	to exceed
eight (8) weeks, once every three years OR
22.02	An employee	who has five (5)	or more	years	of	employment	shall be
entitled to	a leave of absence	without	pay for	a	period not	to exceed
three (3) months, once every five years.
22.03	All requests shall be granted according to the discretion of management and the Union based upon written application, productivity and seniority. An employee requesting a leave of absence must apply in writing to the Manufacturer six months in advance.
22.04	On his or her return he or she shall be re-instated in his or her former position without loss of seniority.
22.05	Leave of absence must be in writing. Reply by management must be authorized in writing. The Union must be notified of same.
22.06	An employee shall be granted up to two (2) months leave of absence immediately on compassionate grounds.
22.07	Maternity Leave
I (a) After twelve (12) consecutive months of continuous employment ar employee is entitled to a seventeen (17) week leave of absence foi pregnancy. This request must be in writing to the Manufacture and a copy thereof sent to the Union.
(b)	The employee must return on said date to be reinstated i n her former position without loss of seniority.
(c)	Under' unforeseen circumstances, the employee may request an extension on the leave of absence for a period up to six (6) weeks. Paragraph (a) and (b) shall apply to all extensions.
23
ARTICLE 23 -HEALTH AND SAFETY
23.01	The Manufacturer agrees to maintain proper Health and Safety conditions in all departments covered by this agreement.
23.02	No employee will be subject to discipline for refusing to work under conditions which are unsafe or unhealthy if such conditions are reported to the immediate supervisor and/or Safety Committee members by the employee.
23.03	Employees involved on the Health and Safety Committee shall not suffer any lost wages incurred while performing their health and safety duties as specified by the committee. They shall be paid on the basis of their piece work average or time workers rate as the case may be.
ARTICLE 24 - GOODWILL
24.01	Where in this agreement the masculine or the singular has been used, it shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter or plural as the case may be wheresoever the context of this Agreement requires.
24.02	Time shall in all respects be the essence of this Agreement.
24.03	This Agreement shall ensure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
ARTICLE 25 - BENEFITS
25.01	WHEREAS THE UNION and the MANUFACTURERS who have contractual relations with the UNITED GARMENT WORKERS of AMERICA, LOCAL 35, have previously agreed to. establish "Sick Benefit Funds" (which funds are nov> administered by committees consisting of equal representation from thf Union and from the Manufacturers), it is now agreed that an additions
24
purpose of the Fund will be to provide "severance pay" to the employee upon leaving his/her employer, i n accordance with the rules and by-laws as set out by the above committees.
I t i s further agreed that the MANUFACTURER shall contribute to the FUND the sum of eight dollars ($8.00) each month, for each Union employee. Dental Plan
The Dental Plan became effective from December 15, 1983. This is to continue from year to year at the prevailing fee schedule. The Basic Plan is to cover periodontal scaling. It is further agreed that the Manufacturer shall contribute 100* of the premium for an 80* basic coverage as defined.
ARTICLE 26 - DURATION AND REVISION OF AGREEMENT
26.01	This Agreement shall be effective and operative, except as may be otherwise expressly provided herein, from the 15th day of December 1989 and shall continue inf u I I force and effect up to the close of business on the 14th day of December 1991 and thereafter year to year, unless either the Union or the Manufacturer give written notice to the other of its desire to revise this Agreement or to conclude a new collective agreement as hereinafter provided.
26.02 The notice hereinbefore referred to rnay be given at any time after th' 1st day of October and not later than the 15th day of November in an year during which the said Agreement expires.
25.02
25.03
25
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and seals the day and year first above written.
UNITED GARMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA,