THIS AGREEMENT MADE AND ENTERED
PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA, THIS ^7 DAY
QF VA
jL
ANCOUVER. IN THE fj . 1991.
BETWEEN:
AERO GARMENT LIMITED
333 Woodland Drive Vancouver, B.C,
V5I 3P6
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Employer")
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 178
711 - 402 West Pender Street Vancouver, B.C,
V6B1T6
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY AGREES AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE 1 - PREAMBLE
The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company, the Union and the employees, the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining, and to ensure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output, and protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company and the Union and of the employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of said conditions.
3HI: 171991
ooSlX o£
LULU
The Company and the Union agree to abide by the terms set out in this Agreement. The-,Union further agrees that it will at all times, instruct its members to act in accordance with the terms contained in this Agreement. The Company agrees, in the exercise of the functions of Management, that the provisions of this Agreement will be carried out.
The Employer and the Union both agree that it is to their mutual benefit to endeavour to bring about complete organization and both parties will work with their respective associates toward achieving the end.
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING AGENCY
2,01	The Company recognizesthe Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all employees of the Company as defined under2.02, "Definition", for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, hours of employment, and all other conditions of employment.
2,02	The term "employee" as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Company duly certified by the Labour Relations Board, except and excluding office workers, supervisory officials, salesmen and shippers.
2,03	When a dispute arises as to whether or not a person is an employee within the bargaining unit it shall be subject to grievance procedure as provided in Article 11, and in the event of failure to reach a satisfactory settlement it shall be dealt with by Arbitration as set forth in Article 12.
2,04	An employee transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit is returned to the bargaining unit:
a)	within a three (3) month period- the employeeshall revertto former job with full seniority credits accumulated in the bargaining unit;
b)	after a three (3) month period- the employeeshall lose the previous seniority credits accumulated in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 3- MANAGEMENT
The management and operation of the shop and the direction of the employees, including the right to hire and to discharge for just cause, is vested in the management provided, however, that this Article will not be used in a discriminatory manner against any employee or group of employees, and provided further that management rights under this Article shall not be exercised in any way inconsistent with or in violation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement.
2
ARTICLE 4 - HOURS OF WORK
i
4.01	Forty (40) hours, Monday to Friday inclusive, shall constitute a normal week's work. Eight (8) hours shall constitute a normal day's work. Day shift shall normally commence at 8:00 a.m. and end at 4:30 p.m. with a one half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch break.
4.02	All employees shall havetwo (2)ten (10) minute rest periods per day without loss of pay, one (1) in the morning and one (1) in the afternoon.
4.03	There shall be no work done during the lunch hour or rest period or before or after regular hours unless overtime premium is paid.
4.04	All employees called into work and receiving less than four (4) hours of work shall be paid for four (4) hours. However, if four (4) hours work are not available at the regularjob, the employees shall not refuse to perform other work for the remainder of the time up to four (4) hours at his average rate per hour.
4.05	When an employee is injured on the job, the employer shall pay a full day's pay for the first day of the injury.
ARTICLE 5 ■ OVERTIME
5.01	If employees are requested to work overtime for more than one (1) hour after completion of eight (8) hours in any work day, a lunch period of twenty (20) minutes duration shall be allowed and not deducted from their pay.
5.02	(a) Any time worked by employees in excess of eight (8) hours per day shall be
paid at the rate of time and one half (1 1/21of the regular earnings.
(b)	Any time worked by employees in excess of eleven (11) hours per day shall be paid at the rate of double time (2X) the regular earnings.
(C) All work performed by employees on a Saturday shall be considered as overtime and be paid for at the rate of time and one half (1 1/21 of the regular earnings until 12:00 noon, and double time (2X) the regular earnings after. This provision shall not apply to part time nor shift workers.
(d) All work performed by employees on a Sunday shall be paid at double time (2X) the regular earnings. This provision shall not apply to part time nor shift workers.
3
5.03	Overtime shall be distributed according to seniority within a department provided the senior worker is capable of handling the work efficiently.
For administration of this provision, supervisor(s) of each department shall be provided by the Company, once a year, with a list of seniority and operations of all employees within his/her department.
ARTICLE 6 ■ HOURS OF V\PRK AND OVERTIME FOR SHIFT WORKERS
6.01	The Company shall have the right to operate the factory and any part thereof on a shift basis and all employee working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift.
6.02	The regular shift shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours perweek. Itis understood that a lunch period of one half (1/2) hour is allowed per shift and counted as part of the hours work.
6.03	All employees shall have two (2) ten (10) minutes rest periods per shift without loss of pay.
6.04	There shall be no work done during the lunch hour or rest period.
6.05	All employees called in to work and receiving less than four (4) hours of work shall be paid for four (4) hours. However, if four (4) hours work are not available at the regularjob, the employees shall not refuse to perform other work for the remainder of the time up to four (4) hours at his average rate per hour.
6.06	Those employees who regularly work on Saturday and Sunday shall take two (2) other days of the week off as their rest days. In such event, Saturday and Sunday shall be considered regular shift and overtime rates shall not apply.
6.07	If employees are requested to work overtime for more than one (1) hour after completion of eight (8) hours in any work day, a lunch period of twenty (20) minutes duration shall be allowed and not deducted from their pay.
4
6.08	Overtime
a)	One and a half (1 1/21 regular earnings shall be paid orthe following:
i)	hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day;
ii)	hours worked in excess of forty (40) per week, but excluding from the calculation hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a day. Forthe purpose of overtime pay calculation, statutory holiday occurs during the work week shall be considered as a shift worked.
b)	double time (2X) regular earnings shall be paid for the following:
i)	hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day;
ii)	hours worked in excess of forty eight (48) per week, but excluding from the calculation hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a day. Forthe purpose of overtime pay calculation, statutory holiday occurs during the work week shall be considered as a shift worked.
ARTICLE 7-VACATIONS
7.01	Two (2) weeks vacation with two (2) full weeks' pay or four percent (4%) of total earning for the period, whichever is the greater, will be granted to each employee who has completed 1600 hours employment in one (1) year, starting from the time the employee has commenced work.
Employees with four (4) years continuous service as at their anniversary date of employment shall receive three (3) weeks vacation with three (3) full weeks' pay or six percent (6%) of total earnings for the period, whichever is the greater.
Effective 1985, all employees with fourteen (14) years continuous service as at their anniversary date of employment shall receive four weeks vacation with four (4) full weeks' pay or eight percent (8%) of total earning for the period, whichever is the greater.
7.03	Employees shall be given vacation credit of a day worked when they work any part of a day, as set out in the Agreement. Part time employees shall be credited for hours worked only.
7.04	Employees sent home due to a plant shut-down, vacation credit shall be given for first day of such shut-down only.
7.05	Employees injured on the job and under Workers' Compensation shall be credited as being employed for the purpose of vacation credit.
7.02
(a)
(b)
5
7.06	Employeeswith less than 1600 hours' credit shall be paid in accordance with the Annual Holidays Act of British Columbia, which is four percent (4%) of their total earnings.
7.07	Vacations to be arranged between parties to this Agreement at a mutually agreeable time.
(a)	The Company shall pay out all vacation pay to all employees on or before July 15 of each calender year.
(b)	If requested by an employee and with a minimum of seven (7) days notice, the company shall pay out all his/her vacation pay on or before his/her last scheduled working day priorto his/her vacation.
7,09	lay off, illness will be considered as time worked.
7.10	The plant shall normally shut down for a vacation period to be taken by all employees covered by this Agreement. The dates set for the plant shut-down shall be posted no laterthan March31 of that year.
When a shut down is not practical, the company shall advise the Union before March 31 of that year and meet with the Union to discuss the vacation arrangement for that year.
7.11	The Employer shall circulate a vacation calendar between March 31 to April 30 of each year. All employees who have vacation entitlement in excess of the plant shutdown period of that year may apply for vacation in accordance with their seniority.
7.08
ARTICLE 8 . STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
8.01	(a) All employees covered by this Agreement shall receive their normal days'
pay, eight (8) hours' pay at their average straight time rates, for each of the following eleven (11) Statutory Holidays in addition to any wages which they may be in receipt of for work performed on such holidays.
1.	New Years Day	7.	Thanksgiving Day
2.	Good Friday	8.	Remembrance Day
3,	Victoria Day	9.	Christmas Day
4.	Canada Day	10.	Boxing Day
5.	B.C. Day	11.	Floating Holiday
6,	Labour Day		(day to be set by and Company)
6
(b)	Payment for any of the above mentioned eleven (11 holidays shall not be voided should such holiday fall on a Saturday or a Sunday, when the holiday(s) will be observed on the following Monday.
(c)	With the exception of Floating Holiday, any employee who is absent more than 28 consecutive days prior to the Statutory Holiday shall not be entitled to payment hereinbefore provided.
(d)	Floating Holiday
i)	Floating Holiday for 1991 shall be observed on December27, 1991,
ii)	Floating Holiday for 1992 shall be observed on Easter Monday of 1992.
8.02	Any Statutory Holiday proclaimed by the Federal or the provincial government shall be added to the list of Statutory Holidays.
8,03	All work performed on Statutory Holidayswill be paid for at triple (3X) time.
8.04	Any employee who is absent on the day preceding and the day following the Statutory Holiday shall not be entitled to payment as hereinbefore provided for Statutory Holiday unless such employee is absent for:
a)	illness;
b)	layoff due to lack of work;
c)	leave of absence granted by the Employer
8.05	Employees with less than thirty (30) calender days' service with the Company shall not be entitled to Statutory Holiday pay.
8.06	When any cf the above named hollday(s) fall within a worker's vacation period, such workers shall be entitled to an extra day's pay in lieu thereof, or an extra days' vacation with pay.
8.07	Bereavement Leave
For the purpose of this Agreement, immediate family is defined as father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother, sister, spouse, common-law spouse, child.
When a member cf an employee's immediate family dies, a leave of absence with pay will be allowed upto maximumoftwo (2) days.
When the grandfather, grandmother, grandchild, son-in-law, daughter-in-law of an employee dies, a leave of absence with pay will be allowed upto one (1) day.
•7
ARTJPI F Q - UNION SECURITY PROVISION
9,01	It is agreed that all employees now members of the Union shall, as a condition of employment, remain members in good standing for the duration of the Agreement. All qualified employees at present employed by the Company who are not members of the Union shall become members two (2) weeks after the adoption of this Agreement. All employees hired after the adoption of this Agreement shall become members of the Union upon completion of thirty (30) days' satisfactory service with the company.
9,02	It is agreed that in the event of hiring, the Company will notify the Union, and in the
event the Union is unable to supply people in the categories required, the Company has the right to hire any available workers, provided however, that no one unfair to the Union shall be employed.
9.03	Check Off
The Company will deduct from the pay of each employee covered by this Agreement all Initiation Fees, Union Dues and Assessments.
All deductions shall be made during the first pay period of the month.
All sums deducted, together with a record for whom deductions have been made and the amount, shall be forwarded to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union at 711 • 402 West Pender Street, Vancouver, B,C. V6B 1T6 not later than the fifteenth (1 5th) day of the calender month in which such deductions are made.
9.04	It is agreed that the Employer will enter the amount of Union dues paid by each Union memberduring the year in the designated area on the T4 slip.
9.05	The employer agrees to acquaint new employees with the fact that a Collective Agreement is in effect and to introduce a new employee to his/her Union representative so that he/she can be advised of the terms and conditions set out in the Agreement.
9.06	Union representatives shall be entitled to leave their work during working hours with pay in order to carry out their functions under the Agreement including the investigation and processing of grievances, attendance at meetings with management, and participation in negotiations.
9.07	All parts of Employment Standard Act shall be in full force and effect for the life of this agreement.
8
9.08	All work normally performed by employees who are members of the Union, shall continue to be performed by them, and this work shall not be performed outside the Employer's establishment, unless:
(a)	the employees are unable to perform the work, or
(b)	there has been a breakdown of machinery or equipment.
ARTICLE 10 • SAFETY. HEALTH & WELFARE
10.01	The Company shall provide a clean and sanitary workshop, with adequate light and adequate ventilation, and an adequate lunch room.
10.02	There shall be a Union-Management Safety committee, with equal representation, to act in accordance with the rules and regulations laid down by the Workers' Compensation Board of British Columbia.
10.03	The Company shall contribute fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia.
10.04	The Company shall contribute one hundred percent (100%) of the premium costs for its employees and their dependents enrolling in an Extended Health Benefits Plan. The plan shall offer eighty percent (80%) refund on claims with zero (0) deductible.
The plan shall include extended medical, oral contraceptives, and an eyeglass option to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) of benefits in each two (2) year period.
10.05	The Company shall continue to pay fifty percent (50%) of the premium cost for Medical Services Plan of British Columbia and one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost for Extended Health Benefits Plan for a period not exceeding four (4) months after layoff, sick leave, and approved leave of absence.
9
ARTICLE 11 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
1
11.D1
11.02
11.03
11.04
11.05
11.06
11.07
If a difference arises between the Employer and employee(s) or between the Company and the Union concerningthe interpretation, application, operation or any alleged violation of the Agreement, the employee(s) shall continue to work in accordancewith the agreement and the matter shall be conclusively settled in the followed manner:
Step 1 - The Employee concerned shall refer the grievance to the supervisor either directly or through the shop steward within thirty (30) days of the incident; this time limit shall not apply when a loss of pay is involved. The Supervisor shall render a decision within two (2) days or any longer period mutually agreed upon.
Step 2 ■ If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled under step 1, the grievance shall be referredto an authorized Union representative and a designated representativeof the Company.
Step 3 - If final settlement of the grievance is not completed within twenty one (21) days after the referral of Step 2, the grievance may be referredto Arbitration by either party.
The time limits specified for the various steps may be extended by mutual written agreement between the Company and the union.
Saturdays, Sundays, and all statutory holidays shall not be counted in determining the time element in any steps of the grievance procedure.
Any dispute or grievance arising directly between the Company and Union may be submitted in writing by either party at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
The aggrieved employee and/or supervisor shall be required to attend the grievance procedure at the request of either the Union or the Company.
The Company has the right to suspend or dismiss an employee for just cause but such action shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure herein set out.
Conclusions reached at meetings of Managementand Union shall be in writing and signed by the Company and Union representativeswithin seven (7) days.
10
ARTICLE 12-ARBITRATION
12(01 The Company and the Union agree that all questions to be arbitrated shall be submitted to an individual, mutually acceptable Arbitrator.
12.02	Any question of interpretation, or any alleged violation of any matter in dispute between the parties arising out of this Agreement which can not be settled by the Union and the Company, shall be determined by Arbitration in the following manner:
The Company and the union shall meet in order to agree upon a single arbitrator. When the appointment of an arbitrator has been concluded, the erbitrator shall have the power to determine whether the matter is arbitrable. Having made this decision, the arbitrator shall hear and determine the differences and shall render a decision and the decision shall be final and binding upon the parties. The Arbitrator shall not have the jurisdiction or authority to alter, modify, extend or amend the provisions of this Agreement.
12.03	If an arbitrator finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, such employee shall be reinstated by the Company without loss of pay and with him all his rights and privileges preserved under the terms of the Agreement.
12.04	The Company and the Union will each bear in equal proportions the expenses and allowance of the arbitrator, stenographic and secretarial expenses and rent.
ARTICLE 13- LAYOFFAND RECALL
13.01	For the purpose of this Agreement:
a)	"temporary layoff' is a layoff
j) which does not exceed thirteen (13) weeks, or
jjj which may exceed thirteen (13) weeks but for a definite term not to exceed one (1) year.
"long term" layoff is a layoff which exceeds thirteen (13) weeks and up to one (1) year.
13.02	Notice or pay in lieu of notice is not requiredfor:
a)	discharge for just cause;
b)	layoff of part time employee.
11
13.03
13.04
13.05
13.06
When the long term layoff is affecting the employees with six (6) month's service or longer, the following notice or pay in lieu of notice shall apply:
Length of Service
Notice or Pay in Lieu of Notice
After 6 months After 3 years After 4 years After 5 years After 6 years After 7 years After 8 years or longer
Two (2) weeks Three (3) weeks Four (4) weeks Five (5) weeks Six (6) weeks Seven (7) weeks Eight(8) weeks
a)	The period of notice shall not coincide with employee's annual vacation.
b)	Payment under this clause shall not relievethe Employer from making any other payment to which the employee is entitled.
c)	Payment under this clause shall be paid to an employee in a lump sum and shall be solely and exclusively allocated to the specific week in which is paid.
d| Payment under this clause shall be based on average earnings. The term "average earnings" on a per hour or gross basis will be defined as follows:
i)	Fortime worker, it will referto his/her hourly rate.
ii)	For piece worker, it will refer to his/her average piecework earnings calculated over the last four (4) week period.
Employeeswho are laid off for a long term as defined in 13.01 shall have the option of taking any severance pay to which they may be entitled in accordance with 13,03 or remain on the recall list. If they choose to take the severance pay, their recall rights shall be forfeited.
Employees who choose to remain on the recall list but who are not hired within twelve (12) months of layoff shall then receive any severance pay due to them.
Employeeswho are laid off for a short term period who are not recalled within the thirteen (13) week period shall be deemed to be on long term layoff and shall be entitled to the Provision of 13.03 and 13.04 of this Agreement.
Employers shall inform the employee at least one (1) day in advance for any layoff.
12
13.07	Inthe event that an employee is laid off, he/she shall be given approximate date of recall.
13.08	Employees laid off shall be recalled before any new employee are hired.
13.09	Employees laid off shall be recalled in the order of seniority.
13.10	Recall rights shall be forfeited when layoff exceeds one (1) year.
ARTICLE 14*- SENIORITY
14,01	Seniority is defined as length of service in the bargaining unit and shall be applied:
a)	for layoffs;
b)	for recalls;
c)	in other provisions of this Agreement.
14.02	Inthe event of a layoff, the principle of seniority as defined in Article 14.01 shall apply; employee reserves the right to displace less senior employee within the department provided the senior employee is capable of handling the work.
In the case of a piece worker, the replacement shall be able to perform piece work on the operation and earns piece work monies no less than the rate of time work.
14.03	For the administration of this Article, departments within the Company are identified as follows:
Cutting Sewing I Pressing Inspection Embroidery Laundry Sewing II
Changing to the above noted list shall be communicated forthwith to the Union in writing.
department#0008 department #0009 department #0010 department #0011 department #0012 department #0013 department #0019
13
Promotions shall be based on seniority. The senior employee's ability to fill the job requirements shall be considered first before those of less seniority. The Company and the Union will mutually agree on the promotion.
A promotion shall be defined as a transfer to a position paying a higher rate, and no employee shall be considered as being demoted unless he or she is transferred to position paying a lower rate.
14.05	Employees may in the case of ill health, be transferred from one operation to another as may be mutually agreed upon.
14.06	Seniority standings shall be considered broken if an employee:
a)	voluntarily leaves the service of the Company;
b)	is dischargedfor just cause;
c)	is absent without permission from the Company or without a reasonable explanation.
d)	fails to report to work without adequate reason within seven (7) days following delivery of a recall notice as referred to in Article 14,08 of the Agreement.
e)	chooses to take the severance pay under 13.04 and 13.05 of the Agreement;
f)	is laid off morethan one (1) year;
g)	is transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit for more than three (3) months.
14.07	Seniority record shall be made available to the Union upon request.
14.08	Any employee who has been notified at his or her last known address to return to work, and within seven (7) days has failed to do so, or failed to contact the office, shall be consideredto have quit this employment voluntarily, and his/her existing seniority rights shall thereupon be terminated. When any such notice is sent to an employee, copy thereof shall be sent concurrently to the Union Committee.
14.09	One(1) employee, who may be elected or appointed to a position in the Union, upon proper notice to the Management, shall be granted leave of absence without pay. Upon one (1)week's notice of his/her desire to again return to work for the Company, he/she shall be placed on the job he/she previously held or one with equal pay without loss of seniority.
14
14.10	If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness or approved leave of absence, he or she shall not lose seniority rights and shall also return to the position held prior to his or her absence, or to one of equal rating, providing he or she is capable of performing former duties. In the case of such absence, it shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify the Company in writing of the reasons for the absence and how long they expect their absence will last. Permissionfor leave of absence extending over a period of more than two (2) weeks must be received in writing and in no case exceed three (3) months period, provided however, that it may be extended upon mutual agreement by the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 15 - PIECEWORK
15.01	The computation of piece work earnings shall be:
a)	piecework earnings
b)	plus (+) the applicable subsidy
Hourly piece work earnings is the total amount of piece work monies earned divided by total of piece work hours the employee worked.
15.02	Formula used for piece work price:
No. of minutes required = pure operation time +15% allowance Base = $ 2.50
piecework price = no. of min, required/100 X $ 2.50
60 min.
= price/100 units
Standard Allowance cf 15% shall be given for:
Break (2X 10 minutes each)
Personaltime Fatigue factor
Minor delays and interruptions
15.03	Any employee on piecework shall receive not less than the rate of time work as stipulated under 18.01 of the Agreement.
15.04	Effective January 1, 1992 (Extraordinary circumstances shall be taken up with the union), all piece work tickets shall be handed in at the end of the day for piece work calculation. Any make up or bonus shall be calculated and credited daily.
15
15.05
15.06
15.07
15.08
15.09
15.10
15.11
15.12
15.13
15.14
Average piece work earnings when referred to for statutory holiday payment and temporary transfer shall mean the average piece work earnings calculated over the last four (4) weeks period.
An employee who is temporary transferred from one operation to another operation for his/her convenience shall be paid the greater of:
a)	the piecework earnings of the job to which he/she is transferred;
b)	the rate of time work.
An employee who is temporary transferred from one operation to another operation for the convenience of the Employer, he/she shall be paid the greater of:
aj the average piece work earnings of the employee;
bj the piecework earnings of the job to which he/she is transferred.
In the event of mechanical breakdown, an employee shall be paid at the rate of time work until repairs are completed.
The schedule of piece work rates shall be kept by Management and it is accessible to the Union upon request. The Union shall also have access to job descriptions and studies for purpose of review of rates.
It is agreed that an established rate shall become permanent immediately unless it is challenged by the Company or the Union within thirty (30) days of its implementation.
A "permanent" piece work rate is subject to being changed when there is a bona fide change in production method or machinery or technology or any other element upon which the rate of standard is based.
In determining the extent to which an established piecework rate of standard should be changed pursuant to 15.11 only those parts or any operation which are affect directly by a change as defined in 15.11 shall be restudied.
A challenged rate shall be subject to re-study within ten (10) days. Failing agreement, grievance procedure shall apply up to and including arbitration as provided herein.
The arbitrator's decision is retroactive to the date of implementation of the challenged rate.
16
15.15 Sample whenever possible shall be done on piece work basis, however, the pay for sample work shall be no less than the minimum guaranteed for sample worker as stipulated under 18.03 or the average earnings of the employee, whichever is the greater.
ARTICLE 16 - SHOP STEWARDS
16.01	The Company recognizes the importance of the Shop Steward and agrees that there shall be no discrimination on their part because an employee is a Shop Steward.
16.02	The Shop Steward will be the last person laid-off in his/her section, regardless of seniority in the event of slack work.
16.03	Should the Company wish to discharge a Shop Steward they must firstly notify the Union and discuss the matter with them before taking any action.
ARTICLE 17 - GENERAL
17.01	The Union Representative(s) shall have access to the Company premises providing they do not interfere or cause employees to neglect their work.
17,02	The Company shall at all times endeavour to so organize the work as to provide steady and uninterrupted employment for all departments. In the event of work shortage, unless agreed otherwise between the Employer and the Union, laying off of Employee shall be in accordance with Article 14 of the Agreement.
17.03	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged except for just cause.
17,04	It is understood that all rights and privileges at present enjoyed by the employees to which no reference has been made in this Agreement, shall continue as heretobefore during the terms of the Agreement.
17.05	The Company agrees that the Union may post notices in the shop on a Notice Board supplied by the Company for that purpose.
.06 No work to be performed on Union Meeting Nights.
17
17.07 The Company shall supply the Union with the average earnings of the employees every six (6) months upon request by the Union.
ARTICLE 18 -WAGES
18.01
Time Workei
a)	$6.91 per hour effective January 1, 1991;
b)	$ 7,19 per hour effective January 1, 1992,
18.02
Presser :
a)	Time Work • $ .30 over and above the applicable time work rate as
stipulated under 18.01 :
i)	$7,21 per hour effective January 1, 1991;
ii)	$ 7.49 per hour effective January 1, 1992.
18.03
b)	Piecework - $ .30 over and above the applicable subsidy amount as
stipulated under 18.05:
i) $5.41 per hour effective January 1, 1991;
$ 5.69 per hour effective January 1, 1992.
Sample Worker {Permanent Sample Worker) - $ .30 over and above the applicabletime work rate as stipulated under 18.01.
a)	$7.21 per hour effective January 1, 1991;
b)	$ 7.49 per hour effective January 1, 1992.
18.04
Beginner
Upto 30 days - $ 5.75 per hour After 30 days - $ 6,00 per hour After 90 days - $ 6.50 per hour
After 180 days - the applicabletime work rate as stipulated under 18.01,
18
It is agreed that the new’ errplayees shall become merrbers of the Union upon completion of thirty (30) calender days of service with all rights and privileges as outlined inthe Agreementwith the exception that the first four (4) months is a probationary period.
18.05	Piecework Employee :
a)	piece Work Subsidy-$ 5.11 per hour effective January 1, 1991;
b)	Piecework Subsidy - $ 5.39 per hour effective January 1, 1992.
Piece work prices that are below normal standards shall be reviewed and adjusted during the first six (6) months of this Agreement
18.06	Cutting Department Classification :
Classification	Jan,1. 1991
Jan.1. 1992
Marker Chopper Chopper Layer Head Bundler Layer
Layer Bundler Bundler& Ticketer
$ 10.45 9.97 9.60
8,91
8.56
8.00
7.40
$ 10.87 10.37 9.98 9.27 8.90 8.32 7.70
8.07 Embroidery Worker :
a)	$6.91 per hour effective January 1, 1991;
b)	$ 7.19 per hour effective January 1, 1992.
18.08 Statement of earnings and averages shall be submitted to Union Office upon request.
19
ARTICLE 19 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
19',01 This Collective Agreement shall be effective fropi January 1, 1991 and shall remain in force and be binding on the Parties until December31, 1992, and from year to year thereafter if no changes are requested by either party.
19,02	Four (4) months written notice prior to the expiry date of the Agreement shall be given by either party to the other party to open negotiations on wages and/or other revisions.
Dated this
day of
1991
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have hereunto caused their names to be subscribed and their seals to be affixed by thier respective officers, thereunto duly authorized.
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE EMPLOYER:
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND	AERO GARMENT LIMITED
TEXTILE WORKERS UNION,
LOCAL178