COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made this day of April, 1996.
— SOURCE				
EFF'			A2.	
1 TERM.	9-			
Mo. Oi: EMPl.OYFfS		& C O		
! NOM.'ikE				
BETWEEN:
WESTERN GLOVE WORKS LTD,,
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company"),
OF THE FIRST PART,
* and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 832, CHARTERED BY THE UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union"),
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS: THE COMPANY AND THE UNION DESIRE TO COOPERATE IN ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING CONDITIONS WHICH WILL PROMOTE THE EFFICIENT AND PRODUCTIVE OPERATION OF THE COMPANY, IMPROVE QUALITY, ELIMINATE WASTE AND UNNECESSARY EXPENSE AND AVOIDABLE DELAYS IN PRODUCTION, MAINTAIN HARMONIOUS RELATIONS BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND ITS EMPLOYEES AND FACILITATE THE AMICABLE SETTLEMENT OF DIFFERENCES ;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COMPANY AND THE UNION MUTUALLY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
2
ARTICLE 1 - NATURE OF THK BARGAINING UNIT
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the bargaining unit defined in Certificate No. MLB-313 dated July 4, 1951 which is recognized as including all employees of the Company employed at 555 Logan Avenue and 300 Princess Street,, in the City of Winnipeg, in the Province of Manitoba, and excludingmechanics,maintenancepersonnel, quality control personnel, laundry technical personnel, fabric personnel, product development personnel, office staff, office clerical staff, plant clerical staff, sales staff, retail staff, supervisors, those above the rank of supervisor and those excluded by The Labour Relations Act (Manitoba). If the Company moves from 555 Logan Avenue and/or 300 Princess Street to another location in Manitoba, this Agreement will apply mutatis mutandis to the employees at that new location except where the employees at that new location are covered by another Manitoba Labour Board certificate or another collective bargaining agreement.
1.02	The Union and the employees recognize and agree that in order to provide maximum opportunities for continued employment and in order to continue to provide good wages and working conditions, the Company must always be in a strong competitive market position. This means that the Company must always provide the highest quality products and services at the lowest possible cost. Therefore, the Union and the employees also acknowledge that at all times, subject to the express terms of this Agreement, the Company must be able to improve the quality of workmanship, products and services, eliminatewaste of materials, supplies and time, conserve and protect materials, supplies, equipment and facilities and do such other things as may be reasonably required to promote efficient and productive operations.
1.03	Once every three (3) calendar months the Company will provide the Union with a list containing the current names, addresses, telephone numbers and rates of pay of all employees. The onus is on each employee to keep the Company advised of his current address and telephone number.
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS
2.01	The word "employee" or "employees" whenever used in this Agreement shall mean those employees of the Company for whom the Union is the bargaining agent as set forth in Article 1.01 and who are covered by the terms of this Agreement.
2.02	(a) The words "temporary employees" whenever used in this Agreement shall mean
an employee who is hired to meet seasonal or peak period demand or as a replacement for a regular employee who is on vacation, on Workers Compensation or on an approved leave of absence and whose service will be of a limited duration and in any event of not more than three (3) consecutive
3
months. A temporary employee shall have no rights under the seniority provisions of this Agreement. However, if a temporary employee remains in the Company's employ beyond three (3) consecutive months, or if he is offered permanent full-time employment prior to that date, he shall thereupon cease to be a temporary employee and shall be then regarded as a regular employee. In such a case, service as a temporary employee shall be credited to his most recent date of hire.
No employee will work less than his full week's work because of temporary employees performing his normal work and no temporary employee will be hired while there are regular employees on layoff who are immediately available to perform the work and who have the qualifications and skill to perform the work in an efficient manner.
The employment of an employee hired as a temporary employee shall automatically terminate at the expiry of the available work for which the employee was hired, the stipulated term or upon return of the absent permanent employee whichever is the lesser. An employee hired as a temporary employee shall be advised at the time of his hiring of his temporary status and the estimated duration of his employment and the Union shall be informed in writing of same.
Temporary employees shall not have access to the grievance procedure set forth in Article 10 or to the arbitration provisions set forth in Article 11 in the event of discharge or layoff.
2.03	Whenever the singular or masculine terms are used in this Agreement, they shall also mean the plural or feminine terms where the context so requires.
2.04	The words "probationary employees" whenever used in this Agreement shall mean those employees referred to in Article 6.
2.05	The words "piece work average rate of pay" whenever used in this Agreement shall mean the average hourly rate of pay earned by an employee working piece work during the most recent three (3) calendar month period as set forth below preceding the date of application of the piece work average rate of pay under this Agreement during which the employee worked a minimum of two hundred and forty (240) hours on piece work. If an employee has not worked a minimum of two hundred and forty (240) hours on piece work in each of the two (2) immediately preceding three (3) calendar month periods, then that employee will be paid the guarantee rate of pay, unless he has not worked the minimum two hundred and forty (240) hours on piece work in each of the two (2) immediately preceding three (3) calendar month periods because he has been absent due to an authorized leave of absence or because he has been transferred by the Company in circumstances where his rate of pay has been maintained pursuant to Article 8,01, in
4
which event the Company and the Union will agree on a piece work average rate of pay for that employee for the current three (3) calendar month period and failing agreement, a grievance may be fded in accordance with Article 10 with respect to the rate. The piece work average rate of pay is calculated based on the number of hours actually worked by an employee on piece work in the three (3) calendar month period divided into the total piece work earnings, exclusive of any and all overtime pay, supplementary pay or premium pay of any kind, of that employee for those hours during that three (3) calendar month period.
The three (3) calendar month periods shall be from the beginning of the pay period beginning closest to the fifteenth (15th) day of December to the end of the pay period ending closest to the fourteenth (14th) day of March, from the beginning of the pay period beginning closest to the fifteenth (1 5th) day of March to the end of the pay period ending closest to the fourteenth (14th) day of June, from the beginning of the pay period beginning closest to the fifteenth (15th) day of June to the end of the pay period ending closest to the fourteenth (14th) day of September and from the beginning of the pay period beginning closest to the fifteenth (15th) day of September to the end of the pay period ending closest to the fourteenth (14th) day of December.
2.06	The words "guarantee rate of pay" whenever used in this Agreement shall mean the applicable statutory minimum wage rates in effect from time to time in Manitoba, minus the supplementary pay referred to in Article 20.07 for employees working piece work who have not completed six (6) months of continuous service with the Company since their most recent date of hire.
2.07	The words "regular hourly rate of pay" and "piecework average rate of pay" whenever used in this Agreement shall mean at any time with respect to any employee that straight time rate of pay per hour or piece work average rate of pay per hour as the case may be, exclusive of any and all overtime pay, supplementary pay or premium pay of any kind, to which such employee is entitled under the terms of this Agreement in respect of the work which he is performing at such time.
ARTTCCK 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union recognizes and agrees that except as specifically, unequivocally and expressly limited by this Agreement, all rights, powers and authority are retained solely and exclusively by the Company.
3.02	Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Union acknowledges that the Company has the sole and exclusive right to operate and manage its business, affairs and facilities; to control and direct the working forces and to select, hire, promote, demote, transfer, assign, classify, lay-off and recall employees; to maintain order, discipline and
5
efficiency and to discipline and discharge employees for just cause; to establish, alter and enforce from time to time reasonable rules, regulations, policies and practices to be observed by employees; to establish newjobs and to alter, consolidateor abolish existing jobs; to determine the number and type of employees needed at any time, the hours and shifts to be worked, the duties to be performed, overtime requirements, job content, quality and quantity standards of performance and the qualifications of employees to perform any particular job; to subcontract work; and to determine the hours and schedules of operation, operating techniques, methods, procedures and processes and means of performing work, the facilities and services to be provided, the materials, supplies, tools, machinery, equipment and facilities to be used, the nature and kind of business conducted, the number, location and types of operations and the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations or any part thereof.
3.03	The Company agrees that it will not exercise its functions in a manner inconsistent with the express terms of this Agreement and in that regard, in administering this Agreement, the Company shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Agreement as a whole.
ARTICLE 4 • ACCESS TO PLANT
4.01	A maximum of three (3) duly authorized representatives of the Union who are not employees of the Company (herein referred to as the "Union Representatives") shall be admitted to the premises of the Company to conduct Union business after notifying the Director of Operations or his designate upon entering the premises and before proceeding on the visit.
4.02	Whenever possible, meetings between an employee and a Union Representative shall take place on the rest period or meal period of the employee or immediately prior to or immediately following the scheduled work period of the employee. However, if the meeting must occur during the employee's working hours, the Company shall allow the employee up to fifteen (15) minutes of paid time off in order to meet with the Union Representative.
4.03	Discussions between the Union Representative and the employee shall be held in private so as to not distract other employees. The Company will designate the location of any meeting between an employee and a Union Representative. In no event shall the admission of the Union Representatives or their meetings with employees interfere with or disrupt operations.
4.04	The Union shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the names of the three (3) Union Representatives and any changes thereto. The Company will not recognize an
6
individual as a Union Representative until it has received such notification from the Union.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION MEMBERSHIP AND DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
5.01	All employees hired or rehired on or afterthe date of ratification of this Agreement shall,
as a condition of employment, apply for membership in the Union within ten (10)	y.
calendar days from the date of hire or rehire and once membership is granted by the	a
Union, such employees shall continue to be members of the Union for the duration of
this Agreement.	i(1
i
5.02	The Company agrees to forward Exhibit One, as attached to this Agreement, duly completed, to the Union within ten (10) calendar days from the date of hire or rehire of an employee. The Union shall bear the expense of printing and mailing Exhibit One.
5.03	Once each calendar month the Company will provide the Union with a list containing the names and social insurance numbers of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous calendar month.
5.04	The Company will deduct from the wages of each employee such Union dues, initiation fees and assessments as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union.
5.05	The Company will remit monthly the total sum of the amount so deducted to the Union on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the calendar month following the month in which the deductions were made, together with a list of the names and social insurance numbers of the employees from whose wages the deductions have been made and the amounts so deducted from each employee’s wages.
5.06	The Union shall advise the Company in writing of the amount of Union dues, initiation fees and assessments to be deducted from the wages of employees and shall notify the Company in writing of any change in such amounts to be deducted at least thirty (30) calendar days in advance of the end of the pay period in which the deductions are to be made.
5.07	Each year the Company shall calculate the amount of Union dues deducted from each employee’s pay and shall indicate same on the T-4 slip of each employee by no later than February 28.
5.08	The Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Company from any and all claims, demands, actions, proceedings and any other form of liability or expense arising out of or in respect of deductions made by the Company from the wages of any employee
7
pursuant to the provisions of this Article 5, except where the Company has failed to make deductions in accordance with the foregoing.
ARTICLE 6 ■ PROBATIONARY PERIOD
6.01	A newly hired employee shall be on probation for thirty (30) days of actual work with the Company since his most recent date of hire. The Company may discipline or discharge an employee at any time during his probationary period and neither the employee nor the Union on his behalf shall have any recourse to the grievance procedure set forth in Article 10 or to the arbitration provisions set forth in Article 11, The discipline or discharge of a probationary employee shall be deemed to have been forjust cause. After completion of the probationary period, seniority shall be established and shall be effective from the most recent date of hire.
ARTICLE 7 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
7.01	The Union and the employees agree that during the term of this Agreement they will not cause, condone or engage in any strike, sympathy strike, slowdown, sitdown, stoppage, picketing or interruptions of any kind which would in any way restrict, disrupt, limit or otherwise interfere with the quality or quantity of work or production.
7.02	The Company agrees that during the term of this Agreement there will be no lockout.
ARTICLE 8 • TRANSFER FROM ONE OPERATION TO ANOTHER
8.01	When the Company requires an employee working on piece work to transfer from his normal operation to another operation, the employee's piece work average rate of pay will be maintained during the transfer for a maximum of two (2) calendar weeks providing that:
at the time of the transfer the employee had sufficient work at his normal operation;
the transfer is not of a seasonal type which is normal to the operation of the Company ;
the transfer is not made as a result of change-overs in types of garments being made by the Company; and
(a)
(b)
(c) <d)
the transfer is not to one of the employee's other established operations
8
8.02	When there is no work available at his normal operation, an employee working piece work may, at the time of transfer, reject a transfer to another operation where he would not be paid his piece work average rate of pay and thereby elect to go home, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Article 8,
8.03	In case of dissatisfaction with the work assigned or the transfer made, employees must continue to do such work as is assigned or to which they have been transferred, but may grieve in the manner set forth in Article 10 and the procedure therein provided for shall then be followed so that the grievance may be heard and adjudicated upon through the procedure provided in Article 11.
8.04	Whenever there is a breach of any of the provisions of this Article 8 by an employee, no negotiations shall take place and no complaints shall be heard or adjudicated upon until all employees who have committed such breach are back to work in the usual manner, unless the employee and his immediate supervisor otherwise agree.
8.05	Wages earned on piece work shall not be used to cover work performed on time work and vice versa. An employee must immediately clock out whenever there is a change in the method by which he is paid and he must have that clock out immediately verified by his immediate supervisor. Employees who have an operation which normally provides less than the normal hours of work each day will be granted a second available operation whenever reasonably possible in an attempt to provide the normal hours of work each day. Operational Seniority shall prevail with respect to the assignment of a second available operation provided the senior employee possesses the qualifications and skill to perform the available operation in an efficient manner and to the satisfaction of the Company.
8.06	When an employee is transferred from one (1) operadon/classification/department to another, he shall retain his Operational Seniority/Departmental Seniority in the operation/classification/department from which he was transferred for a period of one hundred and eighty (180) 'calendar days and he shall have no Operational Seniority/Departmental Seniority in the operation/classification/department to which he was transferred during the said one hundred and eighty (ISO) calendar days, after which date, if the transfer remains in effect, the accumulated time spent by him in the operation/classification/department to which he was transferred shall become his Operational Seniority/Departmental Seniority and he shall cease to have any Operational Seniority/Departmental Seniority in the operation/classification/department from which he was transferred.
9
ARTICLE 9 • SHOP STEWARDS AND UNION ACTIVITIES
9.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint not more than fifteen (15) employees as Shop Stewards. The Union shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the names of the Shop Stewards and any changes thereto. The Company will not recognize an employee as a Shop Steward until it has received such notification from the Union.
9.02	There shall be no Union activity of any kind on Company time or property unless such activity is specifically permitted by this Agreement. No meetings of the Union or its members shall be held on Company property at any time without the prior written approval of the Director of Operations or his designate except as specifically provided for in this Agreement. Shop Stewards shall perform their regular work assignments and shall engage in no Union related activity whatsoever during working hours except as specifically provided for in Article 9,03.
9.03	To ensure operations are not interfered with or disrupted, the parties agree that whenever possible the Shop Stewards shall conduct their activities outside regular working hours. In a grievance situation which requires a Shop Steward’s attention during working hours, he shall not leave his regular duties without first obtaining permission to do so from his immediate supervisor. It is understood that the taking of such time away from regular duties shall be kept to a minimum and that permission will not, therefore, be unreasonably withheld. Shop Stewards shall report to the supervisor of the area visited before contacting any employee in that area and shall return to their regular duties as expeditiously as possible. The Company reserves the right to limit such time if the time requested is unreasonable. Abuse of leave or excessive use of time spent adjusting grievances shall not be permitted and in no event shall the adjustment of grievances interfere with or disrupt operations. Subject to the foregoing, a Shop Steward shall be paid at his regular hourly rate of pay/his piece work average rate of pay for the time spent investigating or presenting a grievance during his regular working hours.
9.04	Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Company agrees that no employee shall be discriminated against for exercising his rights under the terms of this Agreement.
9.05	Shop Stewards shall be allowed to wear their Shop Steward’s badge while on duty.
ARTICLE 10 - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
10.01	The Company and the Union agree that grievances shall be adjusted as quickly as possible in the manner set out herein and without suspension, interruption or disruption of the normal operations of the Company.
10
10.02	A "grievance" shall mean a dispute concerning the interpretation, application or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement. The Company, the Union or an employee may present a grievance.
10.03	All employees have the right to express to management any complaint they may have concerning any matter related to their work or general welfare.
10.04	No employee shall have a grievance until he, or a Shop Steward or a Union Representative on his behalf, has first given his immediate supervisor the opportunity to settle the complaint.
10.05	If such informal discussion does not result in a satisfactory adjustment of the employee's complaint, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the grievance in the following manner:
STEP 1
The grievance shall be submitted in vadiang to the Director of Operations or his designate within fourteen calendar days immediately following the event or circumstance giving rise to the grievance. Any grievance which is not presented within fourteen (14) calendar days shall be forfeited and waived by the aggrieved party. The Director of Operations or his designate shall reply to the grievance in writing within five (5) calendar days of receipt of the written grievance. If a satisfactory settlement has not been reached, or if the Director of Operations or his designate has failed to reply in writing within five the (5) calendar days, then the employee, the Shop Steward or the Union Representative may proceed to Step 2,
The nature of the grievance, the article or articles of this Agreement alleged to have been violated and the remedy sought shall all be clearly set out in the grievance.
STEP 2
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 1 within ten (10) calendar days of the date of submission of the written grievance at Step 1, the employee shall meet with the Director of Operations or his designate, together with a Shop Steward and/or Union Representative, to discuss the grievance within the next fourteen (14) calendar days. The Director of Operations or his designate shall render his decision in writing within seven (7) calendar days after the meeting. If the matter is not resolved at Step 2, or if the Director of Operations or his designate has failed to reply in writing within the seven (7) calendar days, then the employee, the Shop Steward or the Union Representative may proceed to Step 3.
11
STEP-3.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 2, either the Company or the Union may submit the grievance to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 11.
10,06	A grievance arising directly between the Company and the Union concerning the interpretation, application or alleged violation of this Agreement shall be initiated by either the Company or the Union at Step 1 of the grievance procedure within fourteen (14) calendar days after the event or circumstance giving rise to such policy grievance. If not so presented the grievance shall be forfeited and waived by the aggrieved party. The nature of the grievance, the article or articles of this Agreement alleged to have been violated and the remedies sought shall all be clearly set out in the written grievance.
10.07	The parties agree that this Article 10 does not apply in the event of the discipline or discharge of a probationary employee as referred to in Article 6.01,
ARTTCFK 11 - ARBITRATION
11.01	When a party desires that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, that party shall notify the other party in writing, within fourteen (14) calendar days after the date the decision at Step 2 of the grievance procedure was or should have been given, of its desire to submit the matter to arbitration. If no such written request for arbitration is received within the said fourteen (14) calendar day time limit then the grievance will be deemed to have been abandoned. Grievances shall be submitted to a single arbitrator to be chosen in rotation from a panel consisting of:
Paul S, Teskey William D. Hamilton JackM. Chapman'
David E. Bowman
11.02	The person selected as arbitrator shall in no way be directly involved in the controversy under consideration or be a person who has a personal or financial interest in either party to the dispute.
11.03	If any individual of the above panel who, having been requested in his turn to act as arbitrator on an arbitration, shall be unable or unwilling to act, he shall not again be requested to act as arbitrator on any arbitration until his name comes up again on the regular rotation of the panel.
11.04	The arbitrator shall receive and consider such material evidence and contentions as the parties may offer and shall make such independent investigation as he deems essentialio
12
a full understanding and determination of the issues involved. The arbitrator may determine his own procedure but shall give full opportunity to the parties to present evidence and to make representations. In reaching a decision, the arbitrator shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement and shall render his decision within sixty (60) calendar days following the end of the hearing.
11.05	The arbitrator shall not have any jurisdiction to alter, modify, amend or add to any of the provisions of this Agreement, nor to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof nor to make any decisions inconsistent with the provisions hereof. The arbitrator shall have the authority, within the above limitations, to dispose of grievances in such manner as he may deemjust and reasonable in the circumstances.
11.06	The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it.
11.07	The Company and the Union shall each pay one-half (1/2) of the fees and expenses of the arbitrator.
11.08	The time limits set out in the grievance procedure (Article 10) and the arbitration provisions (Article 11) are mandatory and may only be extended or waived by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 12 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
12.01	The provisions of this Article 12 are intended to define the normal hours of work for the purpose of calculating payment for authorized overtime and nothing in this Article or this Agreement shall be construed as a guarantee of or a limitation upon the hours of work per day or per week or of days of work per week, nor as a guarantee of work schedules.
12.02	The normal work week shall consist of forty (40) hours to be worked in five (5) consecutive days, eight (8) hours each day, during the period Monday to Friday inclusive (currently Monday to Sunday inclusive for those employees working in the laundry). Hours paid for a holiday as referred to in Article 18 on which an employee does not work shall be considered as hours worked when calculating weekly overtime.
The Company will give to each affected employee and to the Union as much advance notice as is practicable in the circumstances before implementing shift schedules in excess of eight (8) hours in one (1) day. The requirements and efficiency of operations must necessitate the implementation of such schedules and such schedules must not be implemented in an unreasonable or arbitrary manner. The Company will consult with the Union before implementing such schedules and will give careful consideration to any recommendations which the Union may have with respect to the implementation of such-
13
schedules provided, however, that if the Union does not agree with the implementation of such schedules, a grievance may be filed in accordance with Article 10 and failing settlement, the matter may be referred to arbitration in accordance with Article 11.
12.03	Overtime is recognized as being voluntary but if there are insufficient qualified volunteers immediately availableto do the required work, then the Company will require employees to work the overtime which will be assigned to employees immediately available who have the qualifications and skill to perform the work in an efficient manner. Permission to be excused from working overtime shall not be unreasonably withheld. Whenever the Company requires overtime work to be performed, the Union and the employees must cooperate fully whenever possible.
12.04	The Company shall pay an hourly paid employee one and one-half (1 1/2) times his regular hourly rate of pay for all hours worked by him in excess of the normal hours of work in any one (l)day (e.g., eight (8), ten (10), twelve 02)). The Company shall pay an employee working piece work his piece work earnings plus one-half (1/2) of his piece work average rate of pay and one-half (1/2) of the supplementary pay referred to in Article 20.07 for all hours worked by him in excess of the normal hours of work in any one (1) day (e.g., eight (8), ten (10), twelve 03).
12.05	The Company shall pay an hourly paid employee one and one-half (1 1/2) times his regular hourly rate of pay for all hours worked by him in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week. The Company shall pay an employee working piece work his piece work earnings plus one-half (1/2) of his piece work average rate of pay and one-half (1/2) of the supplementary pay referred to in Article 20.07 for all hours worked by him in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week.
12.06	All hours worked by an hourly paid employee on a Saturday which is his regularly scheduled day of rest shall be considered overtime and the employee shall be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times his regular hourly rate cf pay for all hours worked by him on the Saturday unless the employee is absent without valid reason during any part of his regularly scheduled work week, in which event he shall only be paid overtime for those hours worked by him in excess of forty (40) hours in his normal work week. All hours worked by an employee working piece work on a Saturday which is his regularly scheduled day of rest shall be considered overtime and the employee shall be paid his piece work earnings plus one-half (1/2) of his piece work average rate of pay and one-half (1/2) of the supplementary pay referred to in Article 20.07 for all hours worked by him on the Saturday unless the employee is absent without valid reason during any part of his regularly scheduled work week, in which event he shall only be paid overtime for those hours worked by him in excess of forty (40) hours in his normal work week. For the purposes of this Article 12.06, "valid reason" shall be absence for a compelling and satisfactory reason or any authorized leave of absence under this Agreement. If the reason for the absence is illness or injury, the employee must provide to the Company
14
satisfactory medical evidence that he was unable to work due to illness or injury in order to have a valid reason for the absence.
12,07	All hours worked by an hourly paid employee on a day observed as a holiday in accordance with Article 18 shall be considered overtime and paid for at two (2) times the employee’s regular hourly, rate of pay. All hours worked by an employee working piece work on a day observed as a holiday in accordance with Article 18 shall be considered overtime and the employee shall be paid his piece work earnings plus his piece work average rate of pay and the supplementary pay referred to in Article 20,07 for all hours worked by him on the holiday. Each employee shall also receive the pay he would otherwise have been entitled to receive pursuant to Article 18 had he not worked on the holiday.
12.08	In the event an hourly paid employee works seven (7) consecutive days, he shall be paid
two (2)	ar hourly rate of pay for all hours worked by him on the seventh
(7th) day. In the event an employee working piece work works seven (7) consecutive days, he shall be paid his piece work earnings plus his piece work average rate of pay and the supplementary pay referred to in Article 20.07 for all hours worked by him on the seventh (7th) day.
12.09	It is understood that any change in shifts or days off initiated by the employees themselves (which must be approved in advance by the Company) shall not result in overtime or any other additional costs to the Company.
12.10	In no event shall overtime or premiums or any other benefits be duplicated, compounded or pyramided.
12,11	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, should the majority of affected employees voting on the issue and the Company desire to have hours banked in order to have up to four (4) additional days off between Boxing Day and New Year’s Day, the Company will advisethe Union by September30 as to which Saturdays will be worked by which employees at regular hourly rates of pay/piece work average rates of pay, according to (i) or (ii) below:
/.s the first four (4) Saturdays following October 1 excludingthe Thanksgiving Day long weekend at eight (8) hours per day, or
,,,, the first eight (8) Saturdays following October 1 excludingthe Thanksgiving Day and Remembrance Day long weekends at four (4) hours per day.
It is agreed that employees shall be paid for such time banked on the first (1st) pay cheque after January 1 of the following year and it is further agreed that after the time has been banked, should the Company then choose not to close for the banked days, the
15
Company will pay the overtime rates otherwise applicable for such banked time worked by employees but not taken as days off.
ARTICLE 13 . BREAKDOWN OF MACHINERY
13.01	When an employee is required to report for work and does report for work, he shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4)consecutive hours of work or four (4)hours.of pay at his regular hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate of pay unless he has been advised previously by the Company at least two (2) hours before the start of his shift not to report for work and provided he performs the work, if any, that may be assigned to him that day. This Article 13.01 shall not apply when work is not available due to an act of God, power shortage, lack of material, machinery or equipment breakdown or other reasons beyond the reasonable control of the Company. To quality for payment under this provision, employees must have their current telephone number on file with the Company.
13.02	An employee must immediately clock out and report to his immediate supervisor when the machine he is using is not in suitable working order or has broken down, in which case the employee's regular hourly rate of pay/plece work average rate of pay shall be paid for the loss of time after the first fifteen (15) minutes waiting time and until such time as alternate work, if any, is assigned to him or he is sent home, except that there shall be no fifteen (15) minute waiting time when the employee immediately begins working on another machine. When the machine is repaired or the employee is assigned alternate work, he must immediately clock in and have his immediate supervisor verify both the time he clocked out and the time he clocked in.
13.03	When an employee is required to move to another machine of the same type on a temporary basis while the machine he normally works with is being repaired, the temporary machine shall be serviced (thread, etc.) to enable the employee to continue to earn his regular hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate of pay.
ARTICLE 14 - MEAL AND REST PERIODS
14.01	The normal daily hours of work referred to in Article 12.02 are exclusive of a thirty (30) minute unpaid meal period but inclusive of two (2) rest periods. The Company shall grant to each employee one (1) rest period of ten (10) minutes during the first half of the shift and one (l)rest period of ten (10) minutes during the second half of the shift provided that more than two (2) hours are worked in each half shift.
14.02	An employee who is expected to work for two (2) hours or more but less than three (3) hours in addition to and immediately following his normal work period in any one (1)
16
day shall be granted one (1) fifteen (15) minute rest period before commencing such additionalwork, or one (1) twenty (20) minute rest period when the employee is expected to work three (3) hours or more, provided that the Company may schedule such rest periods on a staggered basis for the employees affected to allow for a continuity in operations. If circumstances arise where, by virtue of staggering, an hourly paid employee does not receive a paid rest period due to completion of the work, then such employee will receive pay for the rest period not taken.
14.03	Hourly paid employees will be paid at their regular hourly rate of pay for all rest periods referred to in this Article 14,
ARTICLE 15 • SENIORITY
15,01	Seniority in this Agreement is defined as the length of an employee’s continuous service in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement since his most recent date of hire and shall apply on an operational or departmental basis as follows:
Operational Seniority in this Agreement is defined as applying within a single operation (e.g., J-stitching, side seaming, bar tacking, bar tack loops, etc.) for an employee working piece work and within a single classification for an hourly paid employee;
Departmental Seniority in this Agreement is defined as applying to all operators on machines under the control of a single supervisor (e.g., parts, fronts, backs, cutting, finishing, etc.) for employees working piece work and to all hourly paid employees under the control of a single supervisor.
15,02	If an employee is transferred by the Company to a position outside the bargaining unit but within the Company and subsequently returns to the bargaining unit within six (6) calendar months of the transfer, he may do so without loss of Operational Seniority.
15.03	The Company will maintain a seniority list showing each employee’s length of continuous service in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement since his most recent date of hire, as well as showing each employee’s Operational Seniority and Departmental Seniority. The first such seniority list will be agreed to by the Company and the Union prior to the signing of this Agreement and that list will be final and binding on the Company, the Union and each employee. That first seniority list will be posted by the Company within ten (10) working days of the ratification of this Agreement. Thereafter, an up-to-date seniority list will be posted by the Company once every three (3) calendar months and a copy of the posted list will be mailed by the Company to the Union. An employee will be permitted a period of ten (10) working days following the posting of any seniority list other than the first seniority list to protest in writing to the Company any alleged omission or incorrect listing, but such protests shall be confined to errors or
17
changes occurring subsequent to the posting of the immediately preceding seniority list. Where an employee is absent due to holiday, illness or approved leave, the ten (10) working day time limit for that employee shall run from date of his return to work. In the event an employee does not file a protest within the time limits stipulated, then the seniority list shall be considered as correct, accepted and final as regards the employee. Any timely protest fded by an employee which is not settled can be taken up as a grievance under Article 10 of this Agreement.
15,04	An employee’s continuous service shall be broken, his seniority lost and his employment with the Company deemed to be terminated forjust cause if
he quits; or
he is discharged for just cause and not reinstated through the grievance and arbitration procedure contained in this Agreement; or
he is absent from work without an authorized leave of absence, unless he provides a compelling and satisfactory reason; or
he is laid off or is otherwise absent from work for any reason for a period of six (6) consecutive months or more; or
he fails to report for work immediately after notification to his last known address by registered mail when recalled following a layoff, the onus being on the employee to keep the Company advised of his current address except only that where the employee is unable to report for work after such notification because he must give one (1) pay period’s notice of termination of employment to another employer and he must work for that other employer during the said notice period, then he shall notify the Company as soon as possible of his inability to report for work for those reasons and he shall report for work immediately upon the expiry of the said notice period, failing any of which this Article 15.04(e) shall apply; or
he retires; or
he takes employment elsewhere while on an authorized leave of absence; or
he fails to report for work at the expiration of an approved leave of absence, a vacation or a suspension, unless he provides a compelling and satisfactory reason.
ARTICLE 16 - LAYOFFS AND RECALLS
16.01	Whenever layoffs occur, they will be put into effect as follows:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
18
(a)	If the layoff is to be two (2) working weeks or less, employees will be laid off on an operational/classificadon basis in reverse order of Operational Seniority,
(b)	If the layoff is to be more than two (2) working weeks, employees will be laid off on a departmental basis in reverse order of Departmental Seniority provided the employee to be retained on the basis of Departmental Seniority possesses the qualifications and skill to perform the available work in an efficient manner and to the satisfaction of the Company. Efficiency is defined in terms of quality and speed as demonstrated by the employee during a maximum eight (8) working hours assessment period during which time the employee will be paid at his piece work ayerage/his regular hourly rate of pay. If after the said assessment period the employee is able to demonstrate that he possesses the qualifications and skill to perform the available work in an efficient manner and to the satisfaction of the Company, then he will be retained to perform that work and his earnings will be determined by the piece work rate for that work without any guarantee of average or additions or by the regular hourly rate of pay for the work, as the case may be.
(c)	The Company shall have the option of dividing the available work so that each employee will receive approximately an equal amount of work or of dividing the available hours so that each employee will receive approximately an equal amount of hours for a period of up to two (2) working weeks. If the period exceeds two (2) working weeks then Article 16.01(b) will apply.
16,02	Notification
Short term layoffs in this Agreement are defined as any layoffs that are for a period of four (4) calendar weeks or less but more than one (1) calendar week. The Company shall give to each affected employee and the Union one (1)week’s advance written notice of shortterm layoff, or pay to each affected employee one (1) week’s pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate of pay in lieu of notice, or a combination thereof provided, however, that no notice of short term layoff need be given where the lack of work is due to an act of God, power shortage, lack of material, machinery or equipment breakdown or other reasons beyond the reasonable control of the Company. The Company shall give to each affected employee and the Union as much advance notice of a layoff of one (1) calendar week or less but more than one (1) day as is practicable in the circumstances.
Long term layoffs in this Agreement are defined as any layoffs that are for a period of more than four (4) calendar weeks. The Company shall give to each affected employee and the Union three (3) weeks’ advance written notice of a long term layoff, or pay to each affected employee three (3) weeks’ pay at the employee’s regular'hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate of pay in lieu of
19
notice, or a combination thereof provided, however, that no notice of long term layoff need be given where the lack of work is due to an act of God, power shortage, lack of material, machinery or equipment breakdown or other reasons beyond the reasonable control of the Company.
The Company shall give to each affected employee and the Union four (4) weeks’ advance written notice of a permanent layoff, or pay to each affected employee four (4) weeks’ pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate of pay in lieu of notice, or a combination thereof provided, however, that no notice of permanent layoff need be given where the lack of work is due to an act of God, power shortage, lack of material, machinery or equipment breakdown or other reasons beyond the reasonable control of the Company. If a greater period of notice is required by legislation, such greater period of notice shall be given.
16.03	Erf
Employees will be recalled in reverse order of layoff provided, however, that Article 16.01(b) will apply if the employee is recalled to an operation/classification different from the one (1) from which he was laid off. No new employee will be hired while there are regular employees on layoff who are immediately available to perform the work and who have the qualifications and skill to perform the work in an efficient manner.
Notice of recall to an employee who has been laid off shall be made by registered mail to his last known address, the onus being on the employee to keep the Company advised of his current address.
Union Stewards shall be the last employees laid off in each department and the first employees recalled in each department provided they .have the qualifications and skill to perform the available work in an efficient manner.
ARTICLE 17 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
17.01	Subjectto the terms of this Agreement, no employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for lawful Union activities or for reporting to the Union any violation of this Agreement.
17.02	Where an employee is given a written reprimand, a suspension or discharge, the employee shall have one (1) of the Shop Stewards or a Union Representative present if one (1) is readily available. This provision does not preclude the Company from giving a written warning, suspending or discharging an employee without holding a meeting but
20
in such cases a copy of the written warning will be sent to the Union and the confirmation referred to in Article 17.03 will be sent to the employee and the Union.
17.03	Where an employee is suspended or is discharged, such suspension or discharge will be confirmed to the employee by the Company in writing and a copy will be sent to the Union.
17.04	A written warning will be removed from an employee’s personnel file after a period of twelve (12) months has elapsed from the date cf issuance, In calculating the said twelve (12) month period, absences by the employee from work for any reason will be excluded.
ARTTCT.F. 18 ■ HPT TP A VS WTTH PAY
18.01	The following days will be observed as paid holidays for employees:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
Civic Holiday (1st Monday in August)
Labour Day
Thanksgiving
Remembrance Day
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
If, during the life of this Agreement, a holiday should be declared by government which is not listed above and which is to be generally observed in the Province of Manitoba, such holiday shall be observed and paid by the Company under the same terms and conditions as apply to the holidays which are listed above.
18.02	In order to qualify for payment for any of the holidays referred to in Article 18.01:
a probationary employee must have worked at least fifteen (15) working days out of the previous thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday; and
each employee must have worked on his last scheduled shift immediately preceding the holiday and his first scheduled shift immediately following the holiday (except Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year’s Day) unless he was absent due to illness or injury, in which event the employee must provide to the Company satisfactory medical evidence that he was unable to work due to illness or injury, or unless he was absent due to an authorized leave of absence of not more than thirty (30) working days.
21
18.03	An employee who complies with the qualifications set forth in Article 18.02 shall be paid for each of the holidays referred to in Article 18.01 an amount equivalent to his regular hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate of pay for the number cf straight time hours in his normal work day unless the employee is being paid insurance or Workers Compensation or other benefits for a holiday, in which event the Company will make up the difference between the insurance or Workers Compensation or other benefits paid to the employee and the amount the employee would otherwise have received for the holiday pursuant to this Article 18.03. It shall be incumbent upon the employee to claim payment of the insurance or Workers Compensation or other benefits to which he is entitled and to provide records of such payment to the Company in order to enable the Company to compute the portion of the holiday pay that is owing to the employee.
18.04	If one (1) or more of the holidays observed by the Company pursuant to Article 18.01 occurs during an employee’s vacation, such holiday(s) will be added to the beginning or the end of the employee’s vacation as agreed to by the Company and the employee. If mutual agreement is not achieved, the Company will pay the employee for the day not taken in an amount equivalent to his regular hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate of pay for the number of straight time hours in his normal work day.
18.05	When a holiday, other than Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day, occurs on a Saturday or Sunday it will be observed on the preceding Friday or following Monday as determined by the Company. Remembrance Day shall be observed in accordance with the provisions of The Remembrance Day Act (Manitoba).
18.06	When Christmas Day or Boxing Day (but not both) occur on a Saturday or Sunday, the holiday occurring on the Saturday or Sunday will be observed, as determined by the Company, on the working day preceding or following the holiday which did not occur on the Saturday or Sunday.
18.07	When Christmas Day and Boxing Day occur on a Saturday and Sunday, Christmas Day will be observed on the preceding Friday or following Monday as determined by the Company and Boxing Day will be observed, as determined by the Company, on the working day preceding or following the day observed as Christmas Day.
ARTICLE 19 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
19,01	In order to qualify for vacation with pay as set out below, employees must have worked for the Company not less than ninety-five percent (95%) of the regular working hours during the twelve (12) months June 1 to May 31. In computing regular working hours, the regular working hours of the following periods shall not be included:
(1) the period of vacation;
*22
the aggregate of periods not exceeding thirty (30) working days in all, comprising:
time during which the employee has been authorized by the Company to be absent from work; and
time in respect of which the employee files with the Company a certificate, signed by a duly qualified medical practitioner, showing that the employee was not, in the opinion of the medical practitioner, fit to work during that time by reason of illness or injury.
Where an employee does not quality for vacation with pay as outlined above, the employee shall receive vacation pay, calculated at two percent (2%) of his regular straight time wages earned by him in the immediately preceding twelve (12) months ending at the end of the last pay period ending in May, for each week of vacation entitlement for which no vacation allowance has been paid.
19.02	Each employee who, on June 1 of each year, has less than one (l)year of continuous service with the Company, shall be entitled to receive an amount equal to four percent (4%) of his regular straight time wages earned during the period of employment for which no vacation allowance has been paid up to the end of the last pay period ending in May.
19.03	Each employee who, on June 1 of each year, has one (1) year of continuous service but less than five (5) years of continuous service with the Company shall receive two (2) weeks’ vacation with pay at his regular hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate of pay as at May 31.
19.04	Each employee who, on June 1 of each year, has five (5) years of continuous service but less than fifteen (15) years of continuous service with the Company shall receive three (3) weeks’ vacation with pay at his regular hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate cf pay as at May 31.
19.05	Each employee who, on June 1 of each year, has fifteen (15) years of continuous service but less than twenty-five (25) years of continuous service with the Company shall receive four (4) weeks’ vacation with pay at his regular hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate of pay as at May 31.
19.06	Each employee who, on June 1 of each year, has twenty-five (25) years of continuous service but less than thirty (30) years of continuous service with the Company shall receive five (5) weeks’ vacation with pay at his regular hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate of pay as at May 31.
23
19.07	Each employee who, on June 1 of each year, has thirty (30) years of continuous service or more with the Company shall receive six (6) weeks’ vacation with pay at his regular hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate of pay as at May 31.
19.08	Employees entitled to two (2), three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks’ vacation and who leave their employment, or whose employment is terminated, shall receive a vacation allowance in an amount equal to four percent (4%), six percent (6 %), eight percent (8%), ten percent (10%)or twelve percent (12%)as the case may be, of their regular straight time wages earned during the period of employment for which no vacation allowance has been paid.
19.09	Vacation pay will be paid to employees at the end of the first pay period in June and employees shall be entitled to take equivalent vacation time off work without pay in accordance with the provisions of this Article 19.
19.10	The Union and the employees acknowledge that the seasonal nature of the business and the requirements and efficiency of operations might restrict the ability of employees to take all or part of their vacation during the period May 15 to September 1.
19.11	Each employee shall be granted and shall take his vacation at such times as determined by the Company but the Company shall, subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, endeavour to give preference in the selection of vacation dates to employees on the basis of Operational Seniority and not unreasonably deny employee requests. In order to exercise their seniority rights in relation to vacation preference employees must submit their vacation requests in writing by no later than March 31 each year. It is understood, however, that the final right to determine the scheduling of all vacations is exclusively reserved to the Company to ensure the efficient and orderly operation of the business.
19.12	Employees may not, without the permission of the Company, take less than one (1)week of vacation at any one (1) time. The consent of the Company permitting an employee to take his full vacation entitlement at one (1) time shall not be unreasonably withheld but employees with vacation entitlement in excess of three (3) weeks may be required to split their vacation period and take the fourth (4th) and/or fifth (5th) week and/or sixth (6th) week of vacation at some other time as determined by the Company based on the requirements and efficiency of operations.
19.13	Vacation entitlements earned as at June 1 must be taken within the twelve (12) months immediately following the said June 1 and shall not be accumulated.
24
ARTTTT F 20 • WAGE T? ATFfs AND PFT ATFD FAfTPRS
20.01	The minimum hourly rates of pay and the minimum rates payable to any employee in his respective classification shall be those set forth in the Wage Schedule (Appendix “A“) appended hereto and forming part hereof. Nothing shall prevent the Company from exceeding the minimums under this .Agreement payable to any employee from time to time.
20.02	Employees shall be paid bi-weekly unless otherwise agreed to by the Company and the Union. Errors in an employee’s pay cheque in an amount of less than ten percent (10%) of the employee’s net pay for the pay period will be corrected on the employee’s next pay cheque. Errors of ten percent (10%) or more will be corrected by the Company issuing a manual cheque to the employee within three (3) working days of the employee notifying his immediate supervisor in writing of the error.
20.03	Work performed in the sample department shall be paid for at regular hourly rates of pay. Work performed on samples in the Main Production area shall be paid for at piece work average rates of pay.
20.04	An employee must immediately report to his immediate supervisor when a piece work coupon for his operation is missing from a bundle and he must do so before he begins work on that bundle. The employee’s immediate supervisor must then verify the piece rate price of the replacement coupon or verify the value of the work performed by the employee. Employees working piece work shall not perform any work or work related activities during their meal periods, rest periods and off work hours. Each employee working piece work must also submit to the Company each day before clocking out all tickets for all hours worked by him that day. Breach of this Article 20,04 by an employee will result in that employee not being paid for the work performed during his meal periods, rest periods or off work hours and with respect to the bundle(s) or the ticket(s), as the case may be.
20.05	No employee will be paid on a bi-weekly basis an amount less than the applicable statutory minimum wage rates in effect from time to time in Manitoba, minus the supplementary pay referred to in Article 20,07 for employees working piece work who have not completed six (6)months of continuous service with the Company since their most recent date of hire.
20.06	Pressers’ piece work tickets shall be time studied on a ten percent (10%)- differential.
20.07	The Company shall pay to each employee working piece work a supplementary pay of forty cents (400) for each straight time hour paid to such employee.
25
20.08	Cutters, spreaders and bundlers hired prior to April 1, 1992 shall not be paid an effective hourly rate of pay calculated on a bi-weekly basis which is less than the hourly rate of pay paid to them on April 1, 1992.
ARTICLE 21 • ESTABLISHING AND CHANGING PIECE RATE PRICES
21.01	The Company shall have the right to institute new piece rate prices and revise existing piece rate prices from time to time as may be required as a result of a change, such as a change in method, tools, equipment, work sequence, quality standards, design, machine speeds or materials, or when there has been an error in establishing the piece rate price. All new piece rate prices and all revised piece rate prices shall be given a trial period of ten (10) working days in total on the operation, during which time the employee or employees concerned shall give the piece rate prices a fair trial. An employee shall be paid not less than his piece work average rate for the ten (10) working day trial period. If an employee is dissatisfied with the new or revised piece rate price, he may at any time within the two (2) calendar weeks immediately following the expiration of the ten (10) working day trial period fde a grievance with respect to same in accordance with Article 10 and failing settlement, the matter may be referred to arbitration in accordance with Article 11.
21.02	If a disputed piece rate price is revised as a result of agreement between the Company and the Union during the grievance procedure, or if it is revised by an arbitrator, then the piece rate price as revised may be made retroactive to the date upon which the disputed piece rate price was made effective.
21.03	If a new or revised piece rate price has not been challenged by the filing of a grievance during the two (2) calendar week period described above, then such piece rate price shall be deemed acceptable to the employees and the Union.
21.04	The Company shall have the right to install piece work systems on operations currently paid as time work and vice versa.
21.05	If requested in writing by the Union, the Company shall provide to the Union copies of all newly established rates and motion and time studies.
21.06	Where piece rate prices are revised as a result of change(s), the Industrial Engineer shall, if requested in writing by the Union, provide to the Union documentation to verify the change(s),
21.07	The Company will provide to the Union a list containing the standard allowed minutes for each operation once every three (3) calendar months.
26
ARTTC.T.F. 22 - MTSCF.T ,T, ANF.OI IS
22.01	The Company will not give an employee work to perform at home.
ARTTCT.F 23 - NTGHT SHIFT PREMIUM
23.01	An employee who is required to work and does work on any shift where the majority of his working hours falls between 12:00 midnight and 8:00 a.m. the following day will be paid anight shift premium of twenty-five cents (25<?) per hour in additionto his regular hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate of pay for all hours worked on that shift provided, however, that such premium will not be paid for any time worked in respect of which an overtime premium is payable. For the purposes of this Agreement, such night shift premium shall not form part of an employee's regular hourly rate of pay/piece work average rate of pay.
ARTTCT.F. 24 - BUT J/F.TTN BOARD
24.01	The Company will allow the Union to install an agreed upon bulletin board on its premises at 555 Logan Avenue and on its premises at 300 Princess Street for Union notices relating to Union meetings, Union elections, the names of Union officers or Shop Stewards and social and recreational events. Prior approval of the Company need not be obtained with respect to such notices but the Union shall furnish the Director of Operations or his designate with a copy of such notices. The contents of such notices will not in any way be derogatory to the Company or its management, employees, suppliers or customers. Notices other than those referred to above require the prior approval of the Company expressed by the initials or signature of the Director of Operations or his designate prior to posting. No Union notices, ,bulletins or other publications will be distributed on Company property without the prior written approval of the Director of Operations'or his designate.
24.02	The Company shall permit the Union to affix the Union's decal on the front door or front window of its premises at 555 Logan Avenue and its premises at 300 Princess Street, the exact location of which decal is to be determined by the Company.
Subject to business considerations and where practicable, the Company will attempt to have the Union label printed on the back of the care and content label sewn into the garment.
- 27
ARTICLE 25 - ABSENCES FROM WORK
25.01	The Company may grant to an employee who has three (3) or more years of continuous service with the Company a leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority for a period not to exceed eight (8) weeks, once every three (3) years.
25.02	The Company may grant to an employee who has five (5) or more years of continuous service with the Company a leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority for a period not to exceed three (3) months, once every five (5) years.
25.03	An employee desiring a leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority in accordance with Article 25.01 or Article 25.02 must request same in writing at least three (3) months prior to the requested starting date of the absence and shall submit the written request to his immediate supervisor.
25.04	The Company shall grant to any employee on compassionate grounds of a serious and compelling nature a leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority for a period not to exceed two (2) months. Employee abuse of this Article 25.04 will not be permitted.
25.05	The Company may grant a leave of absence without pay to any employee for legitimate personal reasons.
25.06	Union Leave
A leave of absence without pay to attend to Union business shall be granted to an employee. Thirty (30) calendar days' advance written notice shall be given to the Company indicating that such leave is required and unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Company, no more than one (1) employee shall be entitled to such leave at any one (1) time. This type of leave shall not exceed one (1) calendar year unless otherwise mutually agreed to in writing between the Company and the Union.
25.07	Convention/Conference/Education Leave
A leave of absence without pay for the purpose of attending conventions/conferences and/or education seminars shall be granted to employees by the Company upon receiving a written request from the Union. Time off shall not be granted to more than two (2) employees at any one (1) time unless otherwise mutually agreed to in writing between the Company and the Union and the duration of any such leave shall not exceed twenty (20) working days in total for any one (1) contract year. The Union shall give the Company written notice not less than thirty (30) calendar days before the requested leave is to commence. A request for an extension of any such leave of absence must be made in writing at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the expiration c£ the leave already
28-
granted and shall be considered by the Company in relation to existing working conditions.
25.08	Negotiation Leave
Leave of absence without loss of seniority for the purpose of attending negotiations with the Company for the renewal of this Agreement will be granted to a maximum of six (6) employees. Such employees will be paid their respective regular hourly rates of pay/piece work average rates of pay for the time spent in negotiations with the Company during the employee’s scheduled shift. In the event negotiations on any one (1) day commence after the start of the employee’s scheduled shift or terminate prior to the end of the employee’s scheduled shift, the employee may elect to report to work or return to work as the case may be for the part of his shift and be paid accordingly, or not report to work or not return to work as the case may be and in such event he will not be paid for the part of his shift which he could have worked but elected not to.
25.09	The Company will not unreasonably deny employee requests for leave of absence but all leaves of absence must be requested in writing, are subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations and must be approved in advance and in writing by the Director
of Operations or his designate who may refuse or allow, in whole or in part, any request for leave, except requests for compassionate leave as provided for in Article 25.04,
25.10	Maternity Leave
A female employee who has completed twelve (12) consecutive months of employment with the Company who submits an application in writing for maternity leave at least four (4) weeks prior to the date specified by her in her application as the date on which she wishes to commence such leave and who provides the Company with a certificate of a duly qualified physician certifying that she is pregnant and specifying the estimated date of delivery shall be granted a maternity leave of absence without pay terminating not later than seventeen (17)weeks following the birth. The employee must return to work on or before the expiry of the seventeen (17) weeks followingthe birth unless she wishes to take parental leave immediately following her maternity leave.
Any employee returning to work after a maternity and/or parental leave of absence must give the Company a minimum of four (4) weeks’ written notice in advance of the day the employee intends to return to work.
Upon the expiration of a maternity leave or a maternity leave immediately followed by a parental leave the employee shall be reinstated by the Company in the position occupied by her at the time such leave commenced or if that position no longer exists, in a comparable position with not less than the same wages and benefits and without loss of seniority, provided such employee first provides to the Company a certificate of a duly qualified physician certifying the employee to be medically fit to work.
29
Accumulated benefits required because of a medical condition directly attributable to pregnancy will be granted to female employees under the same conditions as benefits are granted to other employees. It is understood that other benefits are not payable for absence due to pregnancy alone.
25.11	Parental Leave
(A) Entitlements
Every employee
(b)
(c)
who,
in the case of a female employee, becomes the natural mother of a child,
in the case of a male employee, becomes the natural father of a child or assumes actual care and custody of his new-born child, or
(iii) adopts a child under the law of a province; and
who completes twelve (12) consecutive months of employment; and
who submits to the Company an application in writing for parental leave where possible at least four (4) weeks before the day specified in the application as the day on which the employee intends to commence the leave;
is entitled to, and shall be granted parental leave, consisting of a continuous
period of up to seventeen (17) weeks.
(B)	Commencement of Leave
Parental leave must commence no later than the first anniversary date of thejbirth oTlrdoption of the child or of the date on which the child comes into the actual care and custody of the employee. If the employee meets the requirements set out above, the employee may decide when such parental leave will commence.
If an employee intends to take parental leave in addition to maternity leave such leaves shall be consecutive unless the employee and the Company make other arrangements, in writing.
30
(C)	Late Application for Parental Leave
When an application for parental leave is not made in accordance with the requirement of (c) above, the employee is nonetheless entitled to, and shall be granted upon application to the Company, parental leave for that portion of the leave period that remains at the time the application is made.
(D)	Reinstatement of Employee
An employee who wishes to resume employment on the expiration of parental leave shall be reinstated by the Company in the position occupied by the employee at the time such leave commenced, or in a comparableposition with not less than the same wages and benefits.
(E)	Benefits provided for in this Article 25.11 are in addition to maternity leave benefits provided for in Article 25.10.
25.12	Each employee is required to notify his immediate supervisor prior to the start of his scheduled work period if he is going to be absent for any reason, indicating the reason for and the probable length of the absence. Each employee is also required to notify his immediate supervisor before leaving the premises for any reason during his scheduled work period. Failure to notify supervision or late notification or leaving work without notification may result in the absence being treated as unauthorized absenteeism. Consideration will be given to any extenuating circumstances which prevented the employee from notifying the Company of his absence prior to the start of his scheduled work period or from notifling his immediate supervisor before leaving work early.
ARTICLE 26 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
26.01	The Company, the 'Union and the employees mutually agree to abide by the provisions of The Workplace Safety and Health Act (Manitoba) and cooperate in maintaining and improving the clean and safe working conditions in the Company's premises and in its operations. The Union agrees to cooperate in the enforcement of the Company's rules, regulations, policies and practices concerning safety, health and sanitation.
26.02	An employee may refuse to perform work and will not be subject to discipline as long as he has reasonable grounds to believe and does believe that the particular work is dangerous to his safety or health and he has immediately reported his refusal and the reasons therefor to his immediate supervisor. During this time the Company may assign the employee to alternative duties which he is capable of performing. Payment for the period of refusal will not be made if the employee refuses to perform the alternative duties.
31
Employees on the joint Labour/Management Safety and Health Committee shall be paid
by the Company at their respective regular hourly rates ofpay/piece work average rates of pay for all time spent in attendance at meetings of the vommittee.
Each employee shall maintain his immediate work area in a clean and orderly fashion.
The Company may require an employee to undergo a medical examination by a duly qualified medical practitioner of its choice to establish the state of health of the employee. Such a medical examination shall be conducted at no cost to the employee and the employee shall be paid at his regular hourly rate of pay/his piece work average rate of pay for the time spent attending the medical examination if it must occur during his regular working hours.
An employee injured in an accident while at work, having to leave work because of the injury and qualifying for Workers Compensation benefits as a result of the injury but not compensated by Workers Compensation for the wages lost on the day of the injury shall be paid by the Company for the hours he would otherwise have worked on the day of the injury had he not been injured.
The Company will continue to supply each employee with the necessary protective clothing and equipment reasonably required by the employee in the performance of his job. Such items shall remain the property of the Company, shall not be removed from the Company premises and must be returned for new issue or upon termination of employment or layoff. Employees shall take reasonable care of such items and any employee wilfully damaging or destroying them shall pay the Company for such items at cost by way of payroll deduction.
ARTICLE 27 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
27.01	Technological change shall mean the introduction by the Company of equipment or material of a different nature or kind than that previously used by the Company and a change in the manner in which the Company carries on the work that is directly related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
27.02	In the event of a technological change occurring during the life of this Agreement which will likely affect the security of employment of seven point five percent (7.5%)or more of the employees at work in terms of potentially and directly resulting in terminations or layoffs of that number of employees within a ninety (90) calendar day period, then:
(a) The Company shall notify the Union at least ninety _ (90) calendar days before the introduction of the technological change and provide the Union with a detailed description of the technological change that it intends to implement, disclosing all foreseeable effects and repercussions on the employees.
26.03
26.04
26.05
26.06 26,07
32
The Company and the Union shall meet as soon as possible and not later than sixty (60) calendar days prior to the intended date of implementation of the technological change for the purpose of negotiating reasonable provisions to address the impact on the employees affected.
If the Company and the Union fail to agree upon such provisions, the matter may be referred by either party to arbitration as provided for under the terms of this Agreement and it is expressly understood and agreed that the arbitrator shall have jurisdiction to determine reasonable provisions to address the impact on the employees affected and that the arbitrator’s decision shall be final and binding on all parties concerned. The arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to determine whether or in what manner the technological change shall be implemented.
27.03	This Article 27 is intended to assist employees affected by any technological change and accordingly Sections83,84 and 85 of The Labour Relations Act (Manitoba) do not apply during the term of this Agreement to the Company and the Union and are hereby specifically waived.
ARTICLE 28 - LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
28.01	A Labour/Management Relations Committee will be established to deal with matters of mutual concern relating to the workplace as may arise from time to time. The Committee will consist of three (3) Company representatives and three (3) employees appointed by the Union, The Committee will meet at mutually agreeable times but at least once every six (6) calendar months to discuss matters of mutual concern. Employees shall be paid by the Company at their respective regular hourly rates of pay/piece work average rates of pay for all time spent in attendance at meetings of this Committee.
28.02	The Committee shall not have jurisdiction over wages, or any matter of collective bargaining, including the administration of this Agreement. The Committee shall not have the power to bind either the Union or its members or the Company to any decisions or conclusions reached in its discussions. The Committee may make recommendations to the Union and the Company with respect to its discussions and conclusions, but such recommendations are not binding in any way.
ARTICLE 29 - COURT’S DECISION
29.01	Should it be determined by a court of law that it would be a violation of any legally effective Dominion of-Canada or Province of Manitoba statute or any regulation(s) made thereunder to comply with any provision or provisions of this Agreement, the parties hereto agree to amend this Agreement for the sole purpose of making such provision or
33
provisions conform to such Dominion of Canada or Province of Manitoba statute or reguladon(s) thereunder, and all other provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 30 - BENEFITS
30.01	Within sixty (60) calendar days followingthe date of ratification of this Agreement, the Company will obtain a dental plan which will provide the benefits outlined in Appendix "B" appended hereto for eligible employees and their eligible dependents as such eligibility is defined in the plan, which definition shall be no less beneficial than in the existing dental plan. It is understood and agreed that the Company fulfills its obligations under this Article 30.01 by obtaining a plan which provides the benefits outlined in Appendix "B'1 and paying the requisite- premiums-therefor. but in all respects the benefits shall be administefed in accordance with the rules and regulations of the plan obtained by the Company. It is also understood and agreed that the said plan shall not be or be deemed to be a part of this Agreement and shall not be subject to the grievance procedure or the arbitration provisions contained in this Agreement.
30.02	Effective July 1, 1996 the Company will increase its contribution to the United Garment Workers of America, Local 35 Sick Benefit Fund from Ten Dollars ($10.00) to Twelve Dollars ($12.00) per month for each employee. It is understood and agreed that the Company fulfills its obligationsunder this Article 30,02 by paying the Twelve Dollars ($12.00) per month for each employee to the said Fund, but in all respects the benefits shall be administered in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Fund. It is also understood and agreed that the said Fund shall not be or be deemed to be a part of this Agreement and shall not be subject to the grievance procedure or to the arbitration provisions contained in this Agreement. The administration of the Fund and resolution of any disputes in that regard shall be solely the responsibility of the Union.
30.03	Effective October 1, 1996 the Company will contribute to the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan an amount equal to ten cents (10C) per hour for each straight time hour"oFaclual work performed by each non-probationary employee in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement. Effective October 1, 1997 the amount of the Company's contribution will increaseby nine cents (90) to nineteencents (190) per hour for each straight time hour of actual work performed by each non-probationary employee in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement. It is understood and agreed that the Company fulfills its obligationsunder this Article 30,03 by making the contributions referred to herein to the said Pension Plan. In all respects the benefits shall be administered in accordancewith the rules and regulations of the Pension Plan and without limitation the obligations of the Company shall in no manner whatsoever extend to the performance of the obligations under the said Pension Plan. It is also understood and agreed that the said Pension Plan shall not be or be deemed to be a part of this Agreement and shall not be subject to the grievance procedure or to the arbitration
34
provisions contained in this Agreement. Contributions, together with a list of the names of the employees for whom the contributions have been made, the amount of the bi-weekly contributionfor each employeeand the number of straight time hours actually worked by such employees, will be forwarded by the Company to the Union within twenty-one (21) days after the close of the Company's four (4) or five (5) week accounting period.
ARTICLE 31 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
31.01	This Agreement shall come into effect on the 15th day of December, 1994 and shall remain in effect until the 14tiixlay of December, 1997._
31.02	A party wishing to revise or terminate this Agreement shall notify the other party in writing not less than thirty (30) and not more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiry date hereof and on delivery of such notice the parties shall, within ten (10)days or such later time as may be mutually agreed, commencenegotiations. During the period of such negotiations this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. If notice is not given as above, this Agreement shall automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter unless notice is given in accordance with this Article.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE EXECUTED THIS AGREEMENT.
SIGNED THIS \7" DAY OF APRIL, 1996
.FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY:
qD
35
EXHIBIT ONE
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS I INTON TOP AT. NO 832.
PH AFTER ED RV THE TTNTTEO FOOD & COMMERCT AT. WORKERS TNTERNATT ON A T UNION
NOTICE OF HIRE
Employee Name ----------------------------------------------------
Address	-----------------------------------------------------
Telephone No.
Date of Hire
Date of Birth _______________________________ S.I.N.
Dept. No. ___________________________________
TO THE EMPLOYEE
1,	You are hereby informed that Union membership is a condition of employment.
2.	The Union will be notified that you have received this statement and may approach you to make an application for membership with the full-time Union Representative, Shop Steward or the Union office.
DUES AND INITIATION AUTHORIZATION
I hereby request and authorize the Employer to deduct from my wages, and pay to the Union, such Union dues and/or initiation fee requested by the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local No. 832, chartered by the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union.
Signed____________________________________ Date ---------------------------------------
(To be mailed to the Union Office within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hits or rehire.)
36
APPENDIX "A” WAGE SCHEDULE
Classification
Minimum Hourly Rate of Pay
Re-Cuts
Marker/Digitizer 1
Marker/Digitizer 2
Cut Sample
Data Entry Clerk
Re-Examiner
Shift Dyers Attendant
Shipper
Laundry Shift Machine Attendant
Soabar Computer Operator
Unloader
Sample Sewer
Prep Laundry Forklift
Repair Sewing
Re-Bundler
Service
Re-Evaluator
Prep Laundry
Spot Cleaning
Trim Clerk

Operation
Bundling
Sewing/Finishing
Spreading
Cutting
sorting
Picking
Piece Work Rate of Pav Per Hour
$6.39
$7.14
$8.52
$9.85
$5.75
$6.00
$9.75
$9.50
$6.50
$8.75
$6.50
$6.00
$6.50
$5.50
$6.00
$6.75
$5.50
$6.50
$6.00
$6.00
$6.00
$5.50
$6.50
$5.50
$6.00
$5.50
Piece Work RaW of Pav Per Minute
$0.1065 $0.1190 $0.1420 $0.1642 ).0958 ).1000
The rates set forth in this Appendix "A" are effective at the immediately following the date of ratification of this Agreement.
of the pay period
Effective the beginning of the pay period closest to December	piece work rates
of pay set forth in this Appendix "A" will be increased by twenty cents, (200) per hour and the hourly rate of pay of each hourly paid employee will be	cents (200) pef
hour.
-37-
APPENDIX "B"
All eligible employees and their eligible dependents shall be entitled to receive 80 % of eligible charges for the "Basic" dental services listed below:
Diagnostic:
-	complete examination once every 3 years.
-	recall or oral examinations covered twice in each calendar year.
-	periapical or bite-wing x-rays covered once every two years if necessary. Preventative:
-	prophylaxis (the removal of deposits and stains from the tooth surface) up to twice in each calendar year.
-	topical application of fluoride up to 2 applications in each calendar year.
-	space maintained (except when used in orthodontic treatment),
Surgical:
-	extractions and complicated surgical procedures performed in the dentist's office, including post operative care and general anaesthesia.
Restorative:
-	fillings made of amalgams, silicates, plastics and synthetic porcelains. 'Includes temporary stainless steel crowns.
Prosthetic:
-	repair of damaged dentures. Adding teeth to existing dentures, or relining or rebasing the dentures. Each procedure limited to once every 3 years.
Accidental injury:
-	Major dental services as a result of an accident up to a maximum of $1,000.00 per year per person.
38
In addition to the "Basic" services listed, all eligible employees and eligible dependents shall be entitled to receive 50% of eligible charges for the "Major" dental services listed below:
Endodontics:
-	the usual procedures required for pulpal therapy and root canal filling. Periodontics:
-	the usual procedures for treatment of the disease of the tissues and bones supporting the teeth.
Extensive Restorations:
.	gold inlays and onlays,
jackets, crowns and bridges to rebuild and replace missing
-	each procedure except crowns limited to once in a 5 year will not be replaced within 5 years of placement.
Anaesthesia:
-	nitrous oxide analgesia, administered in the dentist's office.
teeth.
period. Crowns
Prosthetic:
-	partial or complete upper and lower dentures, provided by a dentist or
licensed denturist, Each procedure limited to once every 5 years. Allowances include all adjustments.
Annual maximum for the dental plan is $1,250.00 per person. The plan is based on the prevailing Dental Fee Guide. Any charges over and above those listed on this guide shall be the responsibility of the employee.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between:
WESTERN GLOVE WORKS LTD.,
(hereinafterreferred to as “the Company”),
of the first part,
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 832, CHARTERED BY THE UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIALWORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
(hereinafterreferred to as “the Union"),
of the second part.
The Company and the Union agree to the following items which amend or give interpretation to certain articles of the collective agreement made April 17, 1996 and expiring December 14,1997 (“the Collective Agreement”).
1.	ARTICLE 1 - NATURE OF THE BARGAINING UNIT APPENDIX “A”- WAGE SCHEDULE
1,01	The Company agreesthat effective September3,1996 all employeesofthe Company
employed at Unit 138-740 Dufferin Avenue excludingthe classificationsexcluded in Article 1.01 of the Collective Agreement shall, for all intents and purposes, be covered by the CollectiveAgreement exceptthat (1) Articles 30.02 (SickBenefit Fund) and 30.03 (PensionPlai) shall not apply to any employeeat the said operation located at Unit 138-740 Dufferin Avenue and (2) for the purposes of Article 1.01 and Appendix “A” of the CollectiveAgreement, the classificationsand minimum hourly ratesofpay forthe employeesatthe said operationlocated at Unit 138-740 Dufferin Avenue who are included in the bargaining unit shall be as follows:
Classification	Minimum Hourly Rate ofPav
M/C Hanger	$5.50
M/C Blaster	$6.00
Booth Blaster	$6.50
2
This Agreement is without prejudice and precedent with respect to any operation other than the said operation located at Unit 138-740 Dufferin Avenue and shall not be relevant, referred to or taken into consideration with respect to the interpretation of Article 1.01 of the Collective Agreement.
2.	ARTICLE 5.04 - UNION MEMBERSHIP AND DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
5.04 Article 5.04 shall mean that the Company agrees to deduct Union dues and/or initiation fees and/or assessments from the first pay cheque of any new employee providing the employeehas worked, or received pay, for more than forty (40) hours duringthe first pay period. If anew employeehas worked lessthan forty (40) hours during the first pay period, the Company shall deduct only the initiation fee with respect to that employee. Thereafter, the amount of Union dues set by the Union from time to time shall be deducted from each subsequent pay cheque of employees regardless of the amount of hours worked during any pay period subsequentto the first pay period, as long as the employee remains a member of the bargaining unit.
3.	ARTICLE 30 - BENEFITS
30.02	Article 30,02 shall not apply to any employee in the Company’s operation located at Unit 138-740 Dufferin Avenue and any reference in this Article 30,02 to an employee shall mean an employee otherthan an employee in said operation. Subject to the foregoing, the parties agree that the Company shall make its contributionto the United Garment Workers of America, Local 35, Sick Benefit Fund in the amounts indicated in Articles 30.02, for each employee in the bargaining unit, commencing at the end of the calendarmonth following completion by a new employee of six (6) calendar weeks in the employ of the Company from the most recent date of hire. (F or example, if an employee is hired on January 111996 the $ 12,00 contribution for that employee becomes due and payable at the end of February, 1996 for the month of February and the Company will remit that amountto the Union in March, 1996, together with the other amounts due to the Union with respect to that employee. If an employee starts in the third week of January, the contribution for that employee shall not be due and payable until the end of March and that contribution will be remitted by the Company in the month of April.)
30.03	Article 30,03 shall not apply to any employee in the Company’s operation located at Unit 138-740 Dufferin Avenue and any reference in Article 30,03 to an employee shall mean an employee other than an employee in said operation.
3
4.	SIGNING BONUS - J. Milton Christiansen’s letter dated April 17,1996
The signingbonus of OneHundredDollars($100,00), less required deductions, shall be paid by the Company as indicated in said letter, but in addition it shall be paid to employees listed in Attachment “A” hereto providing the said employeesreturn to vcrk forthe Company no laterthan October 16,1996,
5.	WESTERN GLOVE RELIEVED FROM OBLIGATION
The Company agrees to execute a Memorandum of Agreement, in the form of Attachment*'!}” hereto, whereby Western Glove Works Ltd, is released from any past, present and future obligationsand liabilitiesin regard to the United Garment Workers of America Local 35 SickBenefitFund and its successorfund, and upon execution of this document,the Company agreesthat it shallhaveno further rightto administeror control said fund or its benefits.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE EXECUTED THIS AGREEMENT this m-tb day of August, 1996,
-4-
ATTACHMENT “A”
Arganda, EWira Bagnag, Clarita Bernardo/ Angel ito Bounthayong, Malyvanh Capan, Anka Chan, Hong Mei Con, Kim Cosino, Adelfa Dayrit, Teresita De La Cruz, Luis De Vera, Merlie Diaz, Soledad Entierro, Elma Geli, Norie Hong, Lan Tran Tamara Huynh, Thi Hoa Kler, Surinder Kokoschke, Carla Laderas, Edna Le, Phuong Li, Yi Zhi Liang, Liyan Lim, Ana Beien Luu, Quyen Le Mangawang, Edgardo Jr Miranda, Joanne Mondor, Daniel Nato, Marian Nombrado, Pudficacio OliYeros, Caridad Phung, Lan Sackey, Elizabeth Sandhu, Harjinder Teano, Antonina Tu, Jiao Bei Van, An
Villanueva, Marcelin
-5-
ATTACHMENT “B”
ME viO.RANPUIVLOF.AGREEMEIN I
Between:
WESTERN GLOVE WORKS LTD.
- and -
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 832
WHEREAS the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local No. 832 (hereinafterreferred to as “the Union”) became the certified bargaining agent for certain employees of Western Glove Works Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “the Company”) by reason of the merger of the United Garment Workers of America, Local 35G and the Union on April 1,1995;
AND WHEREAS the United Garment Workers of America, Local 35G and the Companyhad, prior to this merger, established a benefit fund known as the United Garment Workers of America Local 35 Sick Benefit Fund (hereinafter referred to as “the Fund”);
AND WHEREAS the Union and the Company entered into a Collective Agreement on April 17, 1996 covering the terms and conditions of employment for certain employees of the Company;
AND WHEREAS the Collective Agreement above noted refers in Article 30 and Appendix “B" to the Fund;
THE COMP ANY AND THE UNION HEREBY AGREES AS FOLLOWS:
1.	The Union, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which
is hereby acknowledged, does hereby:
. .	release, remise and forever dischargethe Company, and its directors,officers,
'	shareholders,agents, employees, successors and assigns (hereinafter) ointly
and severally called “the Releasees”); and
16
fbl covenant and agree to indemnify and save harmless the Releasees,
of and from any and all claims, demands, actions, proceedings, fines, penalties and any other form of liability or expense or additional cost whatsoever which the Releasees may incur in respect of Pf arising from the operation of the Fund whether before or after the date of this Agreement.
2.	The Company shall cease to have obligationswith respect to the operation of the
Fund and shall ceaseto have any |ngnl to administer or control the Fund.
UN WITNESS WHEREOF, WES'^ERM GLOVEWORKS LTD, has hereunto set its corporate seal, attested to by the hand of its proper officei in that behalf this Hu. day of August, 1996;
AND IN WITNESS WHERECF, UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCALNO. 832 has duly executec this Agreement this £& day of August, 1996;
SIGNED, SEALEDAND DELIVERED
SIGNED, SEALEDAND DELIVERED in the presence of:
WESTERN GLOVEWORKS LTD.
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 832
President and Chief Executive Officer