AFL-CIO-CLC
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION
Local 459
AND
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN CANADA
DECEMBER 15,1992 to
DECEMBER 14,1996
NOV -a
tm
Cjagu^
*pn€S&
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION
LOCAL 459
505 -138 PORTAGE AVE., EAST WINNIPEG, MANITOBA R3C 0A1 TELEPHONE: (204) 942 - 7454 FAX: (204) 949 - 0759
PLEASE BE SURE TO REGISTER WITH THE HEALTH FUND SEE PAGE 34
PLEASE NOTIFY THE UNION OFFICE IF YOU HAVE CHANGED YOUR NAME OR-ADDRESS OR IF YOU ARE LEAVING YOUR PRESENT PLACE-OF EMPLOYMENT
INDEX
Article No.	Page
1.	Definitions ................................. 4
2.	Recognition ................................. 5
3.	Access To Plants ............................ 6
4.	Procedure In Application For Employment
or Membership In The Association.............. 6
5.	Conditions Of Employment .................... 7
6.	Prohibitions ................................ 9
7.	Transfer From One Operation	To Another....... 9
8.	Settlement Of Disputes ...................... 1 1
9.	Hours Of Work And Overtime	..............14
10.	Factory Interruptions ....................... 18
11.	Rest Period ................................. 18
12.	Lay-Offs And Temporary Help	..............18
13.	Discharge And Discipline .................... 19
14.	Holiday With Pay..............................20
15.	Vacations With Pay............................21
16.	Wage Rates And Related Factors................24
17.	Cutters.......................................25
18.	Establishing Piecework Prices	(Line	System) ..26
19.	Leave Of Absence..............................27
20.	Underpayment Or Overpayment To	Workers ...30
21.	Miscellaneous ................................30
22.	Technological Change .........................32
23.	Duration And Revision Of Agreement............33
1
24.	The A.C.T.W.U. LOCAL 459 and GARMENT MANUFACTURERS HEALTH, WELFARE
AND PENSION FUND, INC.....................34
25.	Workplace Safety And Health Program .....42
26.	Binding Clause...........................44
Appendix A. Fund Administration ............. 46
Signature Of Participating Factories .	.	48
AGREEMENT made in duplicate as and from the 15th day of December 1992
BETWEEN:
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 459
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
OF THE FIRST PART,
AND:
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN CANADA
(hereinafter called the “Association”) composed of several Manufacturers who now execute or may hereafter execute this Agreement and who become parties hereto (hereinafter called the “Manufacturers”)
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS the Manufacturers are engaged in the manufacture of overalls, shirts, playsuits, pants, wind-breakers, sports apparel, and other manufactured products, and
WHEREAS the Union is composed of Workers engaged in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will be, from time to time, employed by the Manufacturers in their factories. NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 — DEFINITIONS
1.01	In this Agreement:
(a)	“Average Hourly Rate” or “Average Hourly Earnings” means the average hourly rate calculated on any qualified earnings over a period of six (6) months immediately preceding the application of the average hourly rate or earnings. In the case of a Worker with less than six (6) months employment, the period of time up to the six (6) month period shall be used to determine the six (6) month average.
Such calculations shall be based on the actual hours worked, including all time work and piecework hours divided into the qualified earnings, being the actual total gross amount of monies, excluding the overtime premium, paid to such Worker for said hours.
There shall not be included in such calculations, any monies and/or earnings attributed to Holidays and/or Vacations.
The six (6) month periods shall be from the 15th day of December to the 14th day of June and from the 15th day of June to the 14th day of December.
(b)	“Cutting Room Help” where referred to in this Agreement or schedule means personnel working in the Cutting Room, other than those using cutting knives or shears for actual production purposes.
(c)	“Fund” means ACTWU, Local 459, and Garment Manufacturers Health Welfare and Pension Fund Inc.
4
(d)	“Holiday” means:
New Year's Day Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Boxing Day
Canada Day	Civic Holiday
Labour Day	Remembrance Day
(e)	“Manufacturer” means an Employer who is Signator to this Agreement and whom the Association shall list, at the time of signing, as a member of the Association.
(f)	“Worker(s)” means an Employee of a Manufacturer but for the purpose of this Agreement shall exclude mechanics, office staff, shipping staff, sales staff, foreman, foreladies.
(g)	“Steward” means a Worker who is appointed or otherwise selected by the Union.
ARTICLE 2 — RECOGNITION
2.01	The Union shall have the right to deal directly with any individual Manufacturer provided, however, that such dealings are consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
2.02	No Manufacturer shall hereafter make any Agreement with any individual Worker nor exact or accept any cash deposits or other security from a Worker nor enter into any agreement with any individual Worker guaranteeing any length of employment.
2.03	The Union and it's officials must not interfere with the discipline and management of the factories and must not restrict employment or curtail production.
5
2.04	The Association and each of its members agree that the Union is the Exclusive Bargaining Agent for the Workers of each Manufacturer with reference to wages, hours and working conditions.
ARTICLE 3 — ACCESS TO PLANTS
3.01	The Business Representatives of the Union shall be admitted, at all reasonable times during business hours, to the premises of each Manufacturerwhen on legitimate business for the Union.
The presence of the Business Representative shall be reported to Management upon arrival.
ARTICLE 4 — PROCEDURE IN APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYMENT OR MEMBERSHIP IN THE ASSOCIATION
4.01
Whenever in need of a Worker a Manufacturer shall apply to the Representative of the Union who shall be given a time (reasonable under the circumstance of the requirements of the Manufacturer) in which to supply a Worker acceptable to the Manufacturer. Whenever the Union i^ unable to supply such help, whether temporary or permanent, the Manufacturer may secure such help but such help must become members of the Union within six (6) weeks. It is the intent of this Agreement that the Union shall use all possible means to assure such adequate supply of help.
4.02	When the Union shall organize a non-Union Manufacturer who wishes to become a signator of this Agreement, this Manufacturer must become a member in good standing of the Association.
4.03 The Manufacturer agrees to advise the Union and the Fund immediately of any Worker who
6
quits or is laid-off, in order for the Union to be able lo effectively implement Article 4.01. ARTICLE 5 -CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
5.01	Every Worker in the bargaining unit of the Manufacturers shall be not less than sixteen (16) years of age and shall be a member in good standing of the Union; but all Learners and Beginners shall be given six (6) weeks to become members of the Union. It shall be the responsibility of each Manufacturer to deduct the initiation fees and monthly dues of each Learner or Beginner at the conclusion of the probation period of six (6) weeks.
It is further agreed that the Manufacturer shall complete the Union-supplied Worker Information Sheet for all new Workers and shall include said Information Sheet in with the remittance of the initiation fees and monthly dues. The Worker Information Sheet shall contain the name, address, telephone number, birthdate, start date, S.I.N. and sex of the Member. The Manufacturer also agrees to notify the Union as to the reason for any absence of a Worker on the dues checkoff system of this Collective Agreement.
5.02	Every Manufacturer shall deduct from the wages earned by each member of the Union, the monthly dues of the Union as the Union may determine from
./ time to time, and also any initiation fees and arrears yf in dues and assessments officially requested by /'| the Union. All monies so deducted shall be remitted monthly, by each Manufacturer, to the office of the Union in Winnipeg within four (4) days of the last pay day of the current month.
7
It is further agreed that if the Manufacturer is in deliberate and/or clear violation of the Collective Agreement:
(a)	by not putting new Wbrkers into the Union as per the Collective Agreement, then that Manufacturer shall be responsible for the payment of the arrears created by such violation, on behalf of said Worker(s), and
(b)	if the Manufacturer does not deduct the monthly dues as per the Collective Agreement, from the earnings of the Workers, then that Manufacturer shall be responsible for the payment of the arrears created by such violation, on behalf of said Worker(s), and
(c)	by deducting the monthly dues of the Union, as per the Collective Agreement, but does not remit said monies to the office of the Union, as per the Collective Agreement, then that Manufacturer shall forthwith remit said monies and shall include a penalty payment of interestof 1 1/2 % compounded monthly on the balance due to the office of the Union.
It is understood that a clear violation of the Collective Agreement means that there is no valid question as to whether or not a Worker falls under the definition of “Worker” in this Collective Agreement. It is further understood that a deliberate violation of the Collective Agreement means that a Manufacturer does not correct the violation forthwith, after being given notice, in writing, by the Union, that he/she is in violation
5.03	Workers must not be engaged in Union activities during working hours or on the Manufacturer's
8
premises and must be at work on time, and must
not be absent without permission, but such
permission shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Manufacturer.
5.04	Each Worker mustdofirstclasswork in keeping with Union principles.
6.01	No Manufacturer who opera., an inside factory, shall send out work to a Contractor of a grade similar to thatwhich he/she is manufacturing in his/her own factory, unless the Workers in his/her factory are employed full time.
6.02	Where a Manufacturer wishes to send work to a Contractor, the Union shall be consulted and a Union Contractor shall be mutually agreed upon, if such Contractor can provide delivery and quality consistent with the Manufacturer's standards and the costs are consistent with the local conditions. There shall be reasonable time allowed for the choosing of a Contractor and delivery.
6.03	No Manufacturer shall give out work to the home of any person.
6.04	No Manufacturer shall engage or take part in any lock-outs.
6.05	No Worker shall take part in any strikes, slowdowns, sitdowns, stoppages, unusual holidays, or a cessation of work or slowing down of work of any nature or kind whatsoever.
ARTICLE 7 — TRANSFER FROM ONE OPERATION
7.01 The average hourly rate for a two (2) week period is to be paid in case of a transfer from one (1) operation
ARTICLE 6 — PROHIBITIONS
TO ANOTHER
9
to another, providing:
(a)	That the request is made by the Manufacturer at a time when the Worker has sufficient work at his/her own position;
(b)	That the transfer is not a seasonable type when this is normal to the operation of the Manufacturer;
(c)	That the transfer is not made as a result of change-overs in types of garments being made by the Manufacturers, also when this is inconsistent to the operation of the Manufacturer.
(d)	Workers shall not refuse to do any work which they are given whether same consists of a transfer from one (1) operation to another or not, provided, however, that a Worker may reject a transfer from his^er operation to another if there is no work available at his/her operation.
7.02	In the case of dissatisfaction with the work given, or the transfer made, Workers must continue to do such work as is given or to which they have been transferred, but may complain in the manner set forth in Article 8 hereof, and the procedure therein provided for shall then be proceeded with so that the complaint may be heard and adjudicated upon, through the machinery provided by said Article 8.
7.03	Whenever there shall be a breach of any of the
provisions of this Article by the Workers or by any one of them, no negotiations shall take place, and no complaints shall be heard or adjudicated upon, until all Workers who have committed such breach are back to work in the usual way unless the parties otherwise agree. If any Worker commits such
10
breach of Article 7, then the Union agrees to consult such Worker.
ARTICLE 8 — SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
8.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of the Workers or Manufacturers shall be adjusted as quickly as possible without stoppage of work, and it is understood that a Worker or Manufacturer may present an oral complaint at any time, without recourse to the Grievance Procedure herein.
8.02	Whenever any dispute, difference or question shall arise between a Worker, a group of Workers or the Union, on the one hand and a Manufacturer, a group of Manufacturers or the Association, on the other hand, such dispute, difference or question shall constitute a grievance when the complaint is put in writing.
8.03	The word ‘days” as used in this Article, shall mean working days.
8.04	Grievances shall be processed in the following
manner and sequence:
STEP 1.
The Grievor concerned may submit a Grievance to the appropriate Supervisor within ten (IO) days of the event giving rise to the Grievance. The Grievor concerned may have his/her Union Representative and/or Shop Steward present at the submission of the Grievance. The Supervisor shall reply within five (5) days after the Grievance was submitted.
STEP 2.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 1, the
11
Union's Grievance Representative may submit the Grievance, in writing, to the Plant Manager who shall render his/her decision, in writing, within five (5) days after receipt of the Grievance At the beginning of Step 2, the Grievance representative shall notify, in writing, the Association of the nature of the Grievance and the Manufacturer involved.
STEP 3.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 2, the Union Manager or designate where the Union Manager is not available, and the CEO or the Company President shall meet and attempt to settle the Grievance, within five (5) days of the conclusion of Step 2,
STEP # OPTIONAL
Where a difference between the parties to this Collective Agreement concerning its meaning, application or alleged violation, the Minister of Labour may, on the joint application of the parties, appoint a grievance mediator to assist the parties in resolving the difference.
-or-
Where both parties agree, they may decide to use a mediation board made up of two (2) representatives of each party to assist the parties in resolving the grievance.
This optional Step 3 is non-binding on the parties and it is solely to give the parties another opportunity to review the problem before deciding to go to arbitration.
Where this optional Step 3 is used, the time limit
12
allowed lo refer a matter to arbitration shall be twenty (20) days. step 4.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 3, the matter may be referred to Arbitration, within ten (10) days of the conclusion of Step 3.
8.05	The time limits in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between both parties.
8.06	For the purpose of this Article and for that of
preserving order in the industry, it is agreed that L. Cherniak with P. Teskey as his alternate, and M. Freedman with J. London as his alternate, shall be such Single Arbitrator who shall rotate their turns as such Single Arbitrator during the term of this Collective Agreement. It is further agreed that these appointments can only be terminated by the consent, in writing, of both parties to this Collective Agreement.
It is further agreed that either party may appoint a Nominee, who shall sit with Single Arbitrator and who shall have all the rights of the Single Arbitrator, regarding testimony and evidence presented and who may advise the Arbitrator but who shall not have the right to vote on the decision.
8.07	Either party to the Arbitration shall serve notice, in writing, upon the other party and the Arbitrator setting out:
(a)	the names of all the Manufacturers and the Workers involved in the dispute; and
(b)	the issues and/or complaints touching upon the Grievance which it is requesting the Single Arbitrator to settle.
13
Within five (5) days of receipt of the aforesaid notice, the other party named therein shall serve notice on the first party and the Arbitrator setting out the issues and/or complaints which it is asking the Single Arbitrator to settle.
8.08	The Single Arbitrator shall set the date of the hearing and shall hear and determine the issues and/or complaints with all reasonable dispatch and such hearing shall be limited to the issues and/or complaints set forth in the notices referred to in Clause 8.07.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be the Award of the Arbitrator and the Award of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties concerned.
8.09	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Collective Agreement contained, the parties hereto may extend any of the time limits specified in this Article for such further period as they may mutually agree.
8.10	Each party shall pay one-half (1/2) of the costs of the impartial Single Arbitrator.
8.11	Steps in the grievance procedure may be waived by mutual consent between both parties.
ARTICLE 9 -HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
The standard work week shall consist of forty (40) regular hours of employment consisting of eight (8) hours per day Monday to Friday inclusive in each calendar week, providing that where a Holiday occurs on any day within the standard work week, the regular hours of employment shall exclude eight (8) hours per Holiday.
9.02	(a) Whenever a Manufacturer requires overtime, it
9.01
14
shall:
(i) give as much advan the Workers, and
ce notice as possible to
(ii) ensure that the dis done in as fair an<| possible for all cone
(b) The Union and the Woi fully whenever possible
9.03 OVERTIME DURING STAN
ribution of overtime is equitable manner as erned.
9.04
All work in excess of eight the standard work week s overtime and shall be paid fc one-half (1 1/2x) and such included in the calculation of purpose of vacation pay anc OVERTIME ON SATURDA AND HOLIDAYS (a) All work done on Saturc ays and Sundays shall be considered as overtir le and shall be paid for
kers must co-operate DARD WORK WEEK
(<;)
hours per day during halI be considered as rat the rate of time and time worked shall be a year of service for the vacation entitlement. YS AND SUNDAYS
at the rate of time and on time worked shall be inc of a year of service for tf i
a-half (1 1/2x) and such uded in the calculation e purposes of vacation
9.05
Notwithstanding anythi Agreement contained, Saturday for the purpol during tine week and su overtime in respect of su if:
|>g to the contrary in this a Worker may work on a se of making up time lost ;h Worker shall not be paid ahtimewhich is so made up,
(a)
(b)
the time lost is caus
the Manufacturer s on the Saturday of Worker lost time, a of eight (8) hours an in the calculation purposes of vac entitlement.
cf
sd solely by the Worker, and hall have the factory open the week during which the id then only to a maximum 1 such time shall be included a year of service for the Jtion pay and vacation
It is further agreec home by the Manul work week, caus Manufacturer shall performed on the sent home during tl
9.06
Notwithstanding anyth ni Agreement containec, Workers in a factory an Workers desire to ban making up work time in additional days off bet Year's Day, the Manufii Union by November 30 which Saturdays shall according to (i) or (ii) b<
(i) the 1st three (3) St Christmas Day at regular rate of pay
16
that if the Worker is sent acturer during the standard ing lost time, then the pay overtime for any work Saturday to such Workers e standard work week.
g to the contrary in this should the majority of the Manufacturer of those hours for the purpose of arder to have up to three (3) ©en Boxing, Day and New icturer must meet with the th of that year to determine be worked at regular pay, low;
turdays immediately before eight (8) hours per day at or
9.07
(ii) the last six (6) Saturdiys immediately before Christmas Day at fou (4) hours per day at regular rate of pay.
It is agreed that the Workers tall be paid for such time banked at the time that thrl work is performed, as per the Collective Agreement and it is further agreed that after the time has been banked, and the Manufacturer then chooses not to close the factory for the said banked days, ithen that Manufacturer must pay the premium portion of the overtime rate for such time worked to all the Workers who banked time. All such time worked shall be included in the calculation of a years service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
(a) Notice of intent must be given to the Union by the Manufacturer, of no less than seven (7) days when the starting and/or quitting time of a regularly scheduled shift is to change. A regularly scheduled shift shall be defined as a shift which is not periodic but is ongoing on a permanent basis as agreed by the Manufacturer and the Union.
(b) Notice of intent must be given to the Union, by the Manufacturer, of no less than seven (7) days when a second and/or third shift is to be implemented and/or discontinued.
Whenever another shift is to be implemented, the Manufacturer shall 'meet with the Union to discuss and agree on the method used for determining which Worker shall work on each shift.
17
ARTICLE 10 - FACTORY INTERRUPTIONS
10.01
When a Worker is ordered to report to work and does report at his/her regular starting time, he/she shall be guaranteed four (4) hours of work or in lieu of this, four (4) hours of pay. However if circumstances arise, which are beyond the control of Management such as power failure, fire or failure of other Workers to report, or remain on the job, this provision shall apply.
10.02	In the event of machine breakdown later in the day, a Worker must report to a Foreperson when the machine is first out of order. If after waiting fifteen (15) minutes the machine is not in suitable working order, the Foreperson will give him/her other employment or permission to go home. The Worker will be paid athis/her Average Hourly Rate for the fifteen (15) minutes delay and for any other work assigned in lieu of his/her regular work if not sent home.
ARTICLE 11 — REST PERIOD
11.01 There are to be two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods, one (1) “organized” and the other to be arranged by each Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 12 — LAY-OFFS AND TEMPORARY HELP
12.01 Whenever lay-offs are necessary they are to be put into effect on a departmental or sectional seniority
slack seasons, the Manufacturer shall rotate the \l/ lay-off of Workers until the Workers at least have /y their UIC waiting period served.
basis. Whenever reasonably possible, during
No temporary help shall be employed by the Manufacturers unless there is a full week's
18
work for the permanent W arkers. The Union is to supply all temporary help when available provided the same is acceptable to t ie Manufacturers,
12.03 When a lay-off of two becomes necessary ai * Manufacturer shall notij y lay-off at the time such lay -i
Workers laid off shall be r« -employed in the order of their seniority on a stctional, operational or departmental basis, before any new Workers are hired.
(2) weeks or more id/or apparent, the / the Union of such off becomes apparent.
aves the service of a period of two (2) weeks days notice. The same the Manufacturer.
12.04	A Union Member who le Manufacturer after an initial must give five (5) working shall apply to termination b;
12.05	A Worker who is termina receive his/her appropriate wages due.
ARTICLE 13 — DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
ipd or discharged shall vacation pay plus all
13.01	The Manufacturer and/or an the Manufacturer agrees a reasonably, in good faith ani I with the Collective Agreemi
13.02	Full power of discharge anl Manufacturer but this pov with justice and with regard of the Worker. The power exercised only through i responsible representative
13.03	No Worker shall be disch against for Union activities.
/one acting on behalf of all times to act fairly, in a manner consistent <§ntas a whole.
discipline lies with the er shall be exercised ! or the reasonable rights of discharge shall be fully authorized and >f the Management.
arged or discriminated
ARTICLE 14 — HOLIDAY WIT
14.01 Every Worker who is a receive pay for every average hourly or piec Worker has worked the r< workday immediately pre particular Holiday unless
(a) he/she has been pr bona fide illness, or
member of the Union shall Holiday based on his/her a-work earnings, if such regular hours of work on the ceding and succeeding the
(b) he/she has been ab Manufacturer provid^ not exceed thirty
14.02	Notwithstanding anything Agreement contained, Member of the Union Si Day and New Year's Da; average hourly or piece
14.03	Notwithstanding anythirl Agreement contained, a his/her employment dui which any of the aforei without giving at least or the date of terminating tf entitled to payment for s
14.04	When any of the said Ho vacation period, he/she day’s pay and an extra
14.05	Where New Year’s D Christmas Day falls or the Worker shall be gra the working day imrr following said Holiday,
20
i PAY
rvented from doing so by
ent with the consent of the d that such absence does working days.
to the contrary in this every Worker who is a (tali be paid for Christmas at the particular Worker’s work earnings.
g to the contrary in this ty Worker who terminates ng the calendar week in ilhentioned Holidays occur a (1) week’s notice prior to e employment shall not be jch Holiday.
idays fall within a Worker’s hail be entitled to an extra day off..
ty, Canada Day and/or a Saturday or Sunday, i|ited a Holiday with pay on ediately proceeding or
ARTICLE 15 — VACATIONS WITH PAY
15.01	Every Worker who has completed a year’s service with a Manufacturer, as of July 1st of any year, is entitled to an annual vacation of two (2), three (3), or four (4) weeks with pay, based on his/her Average Hourly Earnings, as that year of service relates to the vacation entitlement in clause 15.03.
15.02	(a) The period commencing the 1st day of July in a
year and terminating on the 30th day of June in the following year shall be used for determining the number of hours of employment constituting a year's service.
(b)	A year’s service shall constitute 1800 hours of employment, including regular hours and overtime hours and excluding the premium portion of overtime, during the term referred to in 15.02 (a) hereof, but
(i)	there shall not be included in such
computations of 1800 hours of employment the two (2) weeks of annual vacation con stituting eig hty (80) hou rs of em ployment;
(ii)	where any Worker shall have worked less than 1800 hours of employment and if such lesser period shall be accounted for by:
1.	Consent to absence from employment
given by a Manufacturer to the Worker, and/or
2.	Absence due to bona fide illness, and/or
3.	Absence due to lack of work, the aggregate of such absences up to a maximum of two hundred and forty (240) hours of employment shall be added to the actual number of hours worked if the result of such
21
addition shall total 1800 hours or more, the Worker shall be deemed to havecompleted, for the purpose of this Article 15. a year’s service and shall receivean annual vacation of two (2), three (3), or four (4) weeks with pay as that year of service relates to the vacation entitlement in clause 15.03.
15.03	(a) Every Worker not otherwise entitled to full vacation pay, as provided in 15.01 hereof, shall be treated in the following manner:
Every Worker who has given four (4) years or less of service to the Manufacturer, but who does not have 1800 hours of employment in the vacation year shall be paid four (4%) percent of his/her earnings, exclusive of the overtime premium, or
Every Worker who has given five (5) years and up to thirteen (13) years of service to the Manufacturer, but who does not have 1800 hours of employment in the vacation year shall be paid six (6%) percent of his/her earnings, exclusive of the overtime premium, or
Every Worker who has given fourteen (14) or more years of service to the Manufacturer, but who does not have 1800 hours of employment in the vacation year shall be paid eight(8%) percent of his/her earnings, exclusive of the overtime premium.
(b) Every Worker with less than one (1) year’s service with the Manufacturer shall be entitled to avacation period which shall be pro-rated on the basis that the number of hours of qualifying employment bears to 1800; a fraction of a day
22
shall extend to a whole day's vacation.
(c)	When a Worker has given one (1) year and up to
-j , _ j =_ four (4) years of service in one factory,
he/she shall beentitled to two (2) weeksvacation in that year. When a Worker has worked fifty percent (50%) of the regular working hours, in each of the four (4) years in the preceding
y ____. j "5 ten (10) years, in one factory, he/she shall be
entitled to three (3) weeks vacation for each year subsequent to the fourth (4th) year and up to the thirteenth (13th) year.
/When a Worker has given fourteen (14) years or more of service in one factory, he/she shall be entitled to four (4) weeks of vacation in that year.
A year of service shall be defined as in clause 15.02.
15.04	A Worker shall be entitled to vacation with pay during the period from the 1st day of July to the 1st day of September, as the Manufacturer may find convenient, unless the Worker and the Manufacturer agree otherwise.
15.05	Total vacation pay shall be paid to each Worker just prior to commencement of such Worker's vacation, or in the case of termination of employment, as the Vacation With Pay Act provides,
15.06	A Manufacturer may close his/her plant for the vacation providing he/she gives two (2) months written notice to the Union prior to the vacations,
15.07	In the case of a Worker entitled to four (4) weeks vacation, three (3) weeks may be taken consecutively, during the vacation period as per clause 15.04, and the fourth (4th) week shall be
23
taken any time up to January 31 st of the following year.
ARTICLE 16 -WAGE RATES AND RELATED FACTORS
16.01	In all questions of wages, rates, our garment industry in Manitoba is a separate entity whose wages are affected by local conditions prevailing in our own industry here.
16.02	The Manufacturer shall submit to the Union, upon request, semi-annual statements indicating the following information for each Worker.
(a)	Clock number and name
(b)	description of operation performed.
(c)	Average Hourly Earnings
(d)	Actual Average Hourly Rate earned based on piecework calculations.
16.03	(A) CUTTERS
Increases shall be granted to the Cutters in the following stages:
1.	one per cent (1%) effective March 29,1993;
2.	one per cent (1%) effective December 15,1994;
3.	two per cent (2%) effective December 15, 1995 (B) TIME WORKERS
Increases shall be granted to the Time Workers in the following stages:
1.	one per cent (1%) effective March 29,1993;
2.	one percent(1%) effective December 15,1994;
3.	two per cent (2%) effective December 15,1995.
24
(C) PIECEWORKERS
Increases shall be granted to ttjje Piece Workers in the following stages:	|
1.	one percent (1%) effective March 29,1993;
2.	one per cent (1%)effeuive December 15,1994;
3.	two per cent (2%) effective December 15,1995.
16.04	All wages shall be paid \ weekly unless otherwise agreed to by the Union ant the individual Manufacturer.
16.05	Samples are to be paid for on time work rates.
16.06	Time work shall not be the basis of payment where piecework prices are provided for, except as provided herein.
16.07	All increases as provided for herein shall be compounded.
ARTICLE 17 — CUTTERS
17.01	There shall be three (3) classes of Cutters, namely, First Class Cutters, Sec< nd Class Cutters and Apprentices^ .Third Class Cutters.
First Class Cutters shall m ake markers and grade patterns to the extent of adjusting such pattern up and down one (1) size.
Second Class Cutters shal be fully responsible for
narker, checking it for i tting properly.
ploy at least one (1) First such Manufacturer (i.e.
his/her lay by taking the omissions, laying up and ci 17.02 Each Manufacturer shall eni Class Cutter except where the proprietor thereof) himself does all the marking in such factory.
25
17.03 The Manufacturer agrees hourly rates shall be i effective March 29, 1993
EFFECTIVE
that the Cutter's minimum s follows for the period to December 14,1996.
MAR. 29TH DEC. 15TH DEC. 15TH 1993	1994	1995
First Class	11.154
Second Class (1st year)	10.881
Second Class
(2nd year)	10.962
Third Class
(by end of 1st year) 10.609 Third Class	" '
(by end of 2nd year) 10.659 Third Class
(by end of 3rd year) 10.740
ARTICLE 18 — ESTABLISH^ 18.01 Line System
The Worker shall be p Hourly Earnings until:
ths
(a)	Th; Manufacturer si new conditions on woi i< rate must be uni as theManufai to another mutually
(b)	J/after working on tl two ;2) weeks, the piet »rate is inadec
11.265
10.989
11.071
10.715
10.765
10.847
11.490
11.208
11.292
10.929
10.980
11.063
G PIECEWORK RATES
his/her previous Average
all set a piecerate to fit the job. However, the piece-set within two (2) weeks, i< hirer and the Union agree , acceptable time, e operation for a period of Worker feels that the new uate, a complaint to that
(0)
effect shall be submittei I by the Shop Steward. The Manufacturer shall then recheck the rate and meet with the Unic l Representative.
In the event that the me sting referred-to in subparagraph (b) hereofdoe s notresultin settlement of the complaint, the dis )Ute may then be dealt with as provided for in P rticle 8 hereof.
18.02	If, after a further period of two (2) weeks, no Grievance has been submit :ed, it is assumed that the Union has accepted the tew piecerate price.
18.03	Where significant numbers o Workers, in any factory are not able to achieve piece work earning in excess of the provincial minimums, on existing piecework rates, a Union Time Study E igineer, in conjunction with Management, shall hav a the right to study the operations involved, using accepted engineering practices. The Manufacturer shall be notified, in advance, of the name and qi alifications of the Time Study Engineer, and the tirr e and date of the proposed study. If no agreemer t is reached the matter will be dealt with under Artie e 8.
18.04	Motion and Time Study Ar alysis Summaries for all new operations and r rte changes shall be available on the Manufacturer’s premises for examination by a person qu; ilified in such activities and authorized by the Union
ARTICLE 19 — LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	A Worker who has three 3) or more years of j employment shall be entitle'i to leave of absence, 7 //✓''"without pay, for a period not to exceed eight (8) weeks, if compassionate easons shall arise. On his/her return he/she shall te reinstated in his/her }f seniority. A grant of
a leave of absence writing, and a copy thei
19.02 A worker, after twelve
employment who subi written application at lei shall be entitled to adoption leave, as the manner:
1. Maternity Leave (a) A period not
be given to a Worker, in ifeof sent to the Union.
(12) consecutive months of nits to his/her employer a * stfour (4) weeks in advance, riatemity, paternity and/or < ase may be, in the following
weeks imm estimated date date of deliverr
exceeding seventeen (17) rdiately preceding the of delivery and the actual
(b)
(c)
The period be delivery and th A compulsory immediately delivery. She with her Mam writing, of h' practitioner ci not be endan She shall be refi: as long as si more than sev the actual date
2. Paternity Leave Every Worker, wfjo
3 female Worker, becomes
ween the estimated date of e actual date of delivery. period of six (6) weeks fallowing the actual date of may, by mutual consent i facturer and the consent inn ir duly qualified medical sc rtifying that her health will g ared, return sooner, stated in her former position, » does not remain absent enteen (17) weeks following of her delivery.
a male Worker, becomes
the natural father of a child or assumes actual care and custody of his new born child, or
(iii) adoptsachild under the law of a Province, is entitled lo, and shall be granted parental leave consisting of a continuous period of up to seventeen (17) weeks. The leave must be taken:
(i)	in the case of the mother, immediately
after her maternity leave is completed, unless she and her Manufacturer have agreed to a different arrangement;
(ii)	in the case of the father, parental leave can be taken at the same time, a different time, or overlap the mother’s parental leave.
Parental leave must be started within fifty-two (52) weeks of the child’s birth or the date the child comes into custody.
A Worker who has taken leave under the terms of this Article and wishes to resume his/her employment shall be reinstated by the Manufacturer in the position occupied by him/her with no loss of seniority.
19.03	All time spent on contract negotiations and/or leave taken pursuant to Clause 19.04 and/or Clause 19.05 shall not be considered as leave of absence in Clause 19.01.
19.04	Workers selected as delegates to any Labour Conference or training session may be granted a leave of absence, without pay, with
29
/ the Manufacturer's consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. This leave of absence shall not exceed five (5) working days.
19.05	If any Worker shall have reasonable grounds for requiring a leave of absence of five (5) days, the Manufacturer shall not unreasonably withhold his consent to such absence, it being understood and agreed, for the purpose hereof, that the term “leave of absence” is exclusive of any absence due to bona fide illness.
19.06	A Worker on bona fide leave of absence shall ^-V'jTX/^acoumulate seniority and upon return from such >	leave shall be reinstated to his/her former position.
ARTICLE 20 -UNDERPAYMENT OR OVERPAYMENT TO WORKERS
20.01	If a Manufacturer is found to have underpaid any Worker, contrary to the terms of this Agreement, the Union shall have the right to demand, and the Manufacturer shall pay to such Worker, the amount underpaid. When overpayment occurs, due to an error on the part of the Manufacturer or the Workers, and if the Union agrees that such an error occurred then the Manufacturer shall be entitled to deduct the overpayment over a reasonable time. In the event that the Union does not agree, the matter may be dealt with under the provisions of Article 8.
ARTICLE 21 — MISCELLANEOUS
21.01	In accordance with the spirit of this Agreement, all parties pledge themselves to co-operate in making the arrangement successful, and to use their influence and best efforts for the promotion and development of goodwill; it being understood
30
that it is not the intention that this Agreement shall operate in any way so as to restrict output or production, nor impede the processes of manufacture or management, but to encourage maximum production with minimum waste and fair equitable treatment to everyone concerned.
21.02	Nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to make any Manufacturer responsible or liable for the covenants, agreements, acts or omissions of any other Manufacturer.
21.03	Each Manufacturer agrees to furnish a suitable bulletin board, or boards, and to provide a space for the Union to install a hot file of hot file(s)
for the use of the Union and such board(s) shall be located in a conspicuous place in the area where the Workers are working, or lunch rooms, but in any event, at least one (1) such bulletin board and hot fileon each floor of the Manufacturer’s premises.
21.04	The Association acknowledges that the use of Union Labels on garments manufactured by Association members should be encouraged. The Association agrees that within the limits of its ability to do so, it will urge members to use such labels.
21.05	Each Manufacturer agrees that if a Worker is injured on the job and requires the attention of a Medical Practitioner.
(a)	Should the accident happen during the first half of a shift the Workerwill be paid a total of four (4) hours and by application to the Fund, the Fund will pay the balance of the shift and/or
(b)	Should the accident happen during the second half of a shift the Worker will be paid for a full shift.
31
21.06	Each Manufacturer agrees to contribute the equivalent of one-quarter (1/4%) percent of Union Member’s wages into a A.C.T.W.U. Local 459 Education and Research Fund, which shall be solely administered by the Union.
The Union shall submit to the Association, upon request, annual generalized statements giving account of the use of said Funds.
ARTICLE 22 — TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Each Manufacturer agrees to give notice, to the Union, of any technological change that he intend to effect, if it is likely to affect the terms and conditions, or the security, of employment of a significant number of employees in the unit or alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated. Such notice shall be given at least ninety (90) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected.
22.02 The notice referred to in Clause 22.01 shall be in writing and shall state;
(a)	the nature of the technological change, and
(b)	the day on which the Manufacturer proposes to effect the technological change, and
(c)	the approximate number and type of Workers likely to be affected by the technological change; and
(d)	the effect the technological change is likely to have on the terms and conditions, or security, of employment of the Workers affected or the alterations that is likely to be made to the basis upon the Collective Agreement was negotiated.
32
22.03	When a Manufacturer gives notice under this Article then A.C.T.W.U Local 459 may serve notice upon said Manufacturer to commence collective bargaining with a view to the revision of the Collective Agreement or the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement according to the terms of the Labour Relations Act applying to technological change.
22.04	Either party to this Collective Agreement may submit to Arbitration, the question of whether or not the technological change is likely to affect the terms and conditions, or security of employment of a significant number of workers in the unit, or to alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated, and if the Single Arbitrator finds, in his/her Award that the technological change is likely to effect the terms and conditions, or security of employment of a significant number of Workers in the unit, or to alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated, then such Award shall be deemed to be notice under the terms of this Article.
ARTICLE 23 -DURATION AND REVISION OF AGREEMENT
23.01 It is hereby understood and agreed that this Agreement shall continue and remain in full force and effect up to the close of business on the 14th day of December 1996 and thereafter from year to year, unless either the Union or the Manufacturers give written notice to the other of its desire to revise this Agreement, or to conclude a new Collective Agreement for any period after the 14th day of December, 1996. The said written notice may be
given at any time after the 1st day of October, and not later than the 15th day of November, in any year during which the said Agreement expires.
This agreement may be w-opened by mutual agreement of both parties.
ARTICLE 24 -THE ACTWU, LOCAL 459, AND
24.01 It is understood and agreed, between the parties hereto, that the provisions governing theoperation of the Fund, including the amount payable to the Fund, the benefits paid out of the Fund, and the terms and conditions under which benefits become payable, may be subject of negotiations of a revision to this Agreement, or for the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement, and that all the provisions of the said Fund are part of this Agreement.
It is further agreed that the Board of Trustees of the fund shall have the right, at their discretion, to refuse to pay any benefits, under the Health and Welfare portion of this Agreeement which are duplications of payments made by any Government body and/or other Health and Welfare Plan, or to pay only the difference when the other payment is less than the benefit provided for by the Fund.
A. HEALTH AND WELFARE
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS HEALTH, WELFARE AND PENSION FUND, INC.
2.
3
Worker (one who is currently employed with one of the Manufacturers as of March 29,1993) with five (5) or more years of plan membership who has not retired, shall be eligible to receive a Special Retiring Allowance of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) for every year of plan membership to a maximum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). If a plan member takes an early retirement, they shall have an option of waiting to take the Special Retiring Allowance at age 65 without penalty or taking it out on early retirement at a reduced rate using the early retirement pension formula of three fifths of one per cent (3/5th of 1%) reduction for every month short of their sixty-fifth (65th) birthday.
If a Member dies prior to retirement, the Estate shall receive the commuted! value of the Special Retiring Allowance.
If a Worker quits or is not {eligible for an early retirement or regular retirement when their employment is severed they are not eligible for the Special Retiring Allowance.	—tJV_-
Weekly Indemnity —
All eligible Members shall be^ of seventy percent earnings to a maximum of ($200.00) for thirteen (13) weeks in any consecutive twelve (12) month periodwith nowaiting days, The Member must be sick at least four (4) working days to be eligible.
p,
antitied to a minimum (70%) of weekly two hundred dollars
Hospital Allowance	\
All eligible Members and eligible Dependents shall be entitled to a special allowance equal to
35
the cost of semi-private accommodation, as defined by Manitoba Blue Cross, per day while in the hospital, not exceeding forty two (42) days in anyconsecutive twelve (12) month period.
4.	Maternity, Paternity, Adoption
In the event of confinement by reason of Maternity of any person who becomes eligible therefore, there shall be paid by the Fund, benefits in the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00).
In the event of confinement by reason of Caesarean Birth to any|person who becomes eligible therefore, there shall be paid by the Fund benefits in the sum of one hundred and seventy-five dollars ($175.00).
In the event of adoption by any person who becomes eligible therefore, there shall be paid by the Fund benefits in the sum! of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00).
5.	Bereavement Pay In the event of a death in the family of an eligible Member, there shall be paid to such Member:
(a ) Three (3) days bereavement pay if the deceased is a Mother-in-law, Father-in-law, Son-in-law, Daughter-in-law, Brother-in-law, Sister-in-law, grandparents or grandchild, and (b) Five (5) days, bereavement pay, if the deceased is a Mother, Father, Spouse, Brother, Sister or child.
(c)	In the event the eligible Member continues to work during the bereavement period, they shall only be entitled to one-half (1/2) the bereavement pay in S(a) or 5(b) above.
36
Vision Care
6.
7.
8.


All eligible Members and one (1) eligible Dependent shall be entitled to seventy-five percent (75%) of verifiable eye glasses and/or contact
costs of prescription enses to a maximum
of two hundred dollars (p200.00) per claim every two (2) years.
Prescription Drugs ......
All eligible Members and shall be entitled to ninety | total bills, with no deduct) drugs, based on submit®
Effective the date of signin prescription drugs for thi bursement, shall be defi drugs that are included on
eligible Dependents ercent (90%) of the ole, for prescription and verifiable bills. of this Agreement, purposes of reim-ed as prescription he Pharmacare Program Formulary. (Formulary is the list of drugs
that the Pharmacare Prof reimbursement for.)
ram will provide a
The Fund will only pay to out-of-Province of Manitoba members the equivalent of what is paid to plan members in Manitoba. All eligible out-of-Province plan members shall be entitled to ninety percent (90%) of the total bills, minus the amoupt that would be reimbursed by Manitoba Pharmacare, for prescription drugs, based on submitted and verifiable bills.
Dental Plan
All eligible Members and eligible Dependents shall be entitled to receive eighty percent (80%) of the “Basic” dental services listed below.
37
Diagnostic
-	completeexaminat on, once every three (3)years
-	recall or oral exam nation covered twice in each calendar year
-	periapical or bite-vfing x-rays once every two
(2)	years if necessary.
Preventative
-	prophylaxis (the removal of deposits and stains from the tooth surface) up to twice in each calendar year
-	topical application of fluoride, up to two (2) applications in ea<jh calendar year
-	space maintainers (except when used in
orthodontic treatment).
Surgical
extractions and complicated surgical procedures performed in the dentist's office, ‘including post operative care and general anaesthesia. Restorative
fillings made of amalgams, silicates, plastics and synthetic porcelains. Includes temporary stainless steel crowns.
Prosthetic
-	repair of damaged dentures. Adding teeth to existing dentures, or relining or rebasing the dentures. Each procedure limited to once every three (3) years.
Accidental Injury
-	major dental services as a result of an accident up to a maximum of one thousand dollars
38
($1000.00) per year per ||
Inaddition to the “Basic” si irvices listed previously all eligible Members an I eligible Dependents shall be entitled to receiv) fifty percent (50%) of eligible charges for the f< flowing “Major” dental services,
Endodontics:
- the usual procedures required for pulpal therapy and root canal filling.
Periodontics:
the usual procedures for tr pi of the tissues and bones
Extensive Restorations:
gold inlays and onlays
jackets, crowns and bridges to rebuild and replace missing teeth.
- each procedure except c in a five (5) year periot replaced within five (5)
Anaesthesia:
-	nitrons, oxide ana
dentists office.
Prosthetic:
-	partial or complete uppe provided by a dentist |r Each procedure limited years. Allowances includb
Annual maximum for th s thousand two hunche ($1250.00) per person.
iatment of the diseases supporting the teeth.
rowns limited to once Crowns will not be ars of placement.
administered in the
and lower dentures, licensed denturist. o once every five (5) all adjustments, dental plan is one d and fifty dollars he plan is based on
the prevailing Den over this guide si the Member.
Chiropractic Care
All eligible Members si the Fund for verifiable limit of forty-eight dolli i that paid by Manitoba in any one year.
Jury Duty	^
In the event that a Woi Jury Duty, there shall Fund, all loss of wage: Ambulance Fees
tal Fee Guide. Any charges liall be the responsibility of
Ifall be entitled to payment by Chiropractic Care upto a rs ($48.00) over and above fealth Services Comfhission
ke/is called upon to perform paid, as a benefit from the incurred by such Worker.
le
All eligible Members payment from the Fu fees for trips that occ member.
PENSION The maximum monthl member could become
A member who retires or after his 65th birth equal to $7.75 per mor 2 years to a maximum i Membership credited
A member may chooi reached age 55 and years of Continuous type of pension beif
accordance with the n
shall be entitled to receive id, for verifiable ambulance ir in the home area of each
r pension benefit to which a entitled is $155.00. in the first day of the month on day shall receive a pension th multiplied by a minimum of if 20 years of Continuous Plan o him.
e to retire early if they have las accumulated at least 10 5lan Membership. This early efiit will be determined in riethod described above and
shall be reduced by 3/5 of 1% fc r each month that his retirement date precedes the t rst day ot the month coinciding with or immediatel / following" his 65th birthday.
“Totally Disabled’’ members, wl io have accumulated at least 10 years of Continuous Plan Membership and who meet the criteria, shall be entitled to disability retirement benefits of at lea st 77%.
Each benefit which is payable as a result of death, disablement or retiremeni occurring before January 1, 1990 is the amour t which was payable under the Plan as it existed immediately prior to January 1, 1990.
Words implying the masculine gender shall include the feminine and words impor ing the singular shall include the plural where the context so requires.
OTHER PROVISIONS
The contributions by Manufacturers to the Fund is the equivalent of three and thr< >e quarters percent (3 3/4%) of Union Member’s wages. Manufacturers shall' also contribute the equi ralent of one quarter percent (1/4%) of Union Me nber's wages to the Amalgamated Clothing and T axtile Workers Union Local 459 Education and Re ;earch Fund. Both of these shall be remitted mont lly by the end of the following month.
Should a Manufacturer be foui the Collective Agreement by not remitting the
contribution to the Health Fund and/or the Education i as per the contract, then, i notice of the arrears, that fJ
Welfare and Pension and Research Fund fler receiving written anufacturer shall pay
on the unpaid balanc p
(a) The Office Emp entitled to the b< and Pension Fuii Members and s Fund by-laws, the Manufacture from the Fund employment whictl remain in effect a
(b)
The Office Empl a; entitled to the bti and Pension Fur Members and sh; by-laws. The pi Manufacturer’s the Amalgamatec Union, Local 459.
oyees of the Fund shall be fnefits of the Health, Welfare d in the same way as Union i|iall be subject to the same he premiums, equivalent to ’s contributions, shall come (self. Any terms of original h were more favourable shall nd supersede this clause. iyees of Local 459 may be nefits of the Health, Welfare d in the same way as Union be subject to the same Fund i^miums, equivalent to the intributions, shall come from Clothing and Textile Workers
For the purpose of tl “Dependents” shall rr< Member. Child or sp: following definition ob
“The term 'Depender
stepchildren and child site sex with whom husband and wife rel dren are living with the the age of 21 and depi support'
Those Members who for six (6) months fromj applicable
means all natural children, en of the person of the oppo-|the employee is living in a .tionship, providing such chil-Worker, are unmarried, under indent upon the employee for
etire are eligible for benefits the date of retirement, where
5.	The Worker shall become eligible for benefits in the
beginning of the sixth (6th) month of employment.	.
6.	AppendixAentitled-APPENDIXA. FORMING PART
OF THIS CONTRACT RE FUND ADMINISTRA- /U TION” shall be a part of this contract and be used to decide entitlement to benefits.
ARTICLE 25 -WORKPLACE SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM
25.01	The Manufacturer and the Union agree to establish Safety and Health Programs in all Plants in accordance with the Workplace Safety and Health Act.
25.02	BASIC OBJECTIVES OF A DEMOCRATIC SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM
(a)	The Manitoba Workplace, Safety and Health Act provides for the establishment of Joint Labour-Management Safety and Health Committees in individual workplaces or classes of workplaces designated by the provincial cabinet.
(b)	Workers and Manufacturers share an equal concern in preventing accidentsand ill-health arising out of conditions in the workplace.
The intent of the Joint Safety and Health Committee is to enhance the ability of Workers and Manufacturers to resolve safety and health concerns reasonably and co-operatively. They should do so on their own, with a minimum of government involvement.
(c)	The specific objectives of a Safety and Health Committee include:
43
(1)	assisting Workers and the Manufacturer to identify, record, examine, evaluate and resolve safety and health concerns in the Workplace;
(2)	developing practical procedures and conditions to help achieve the highest possible degrees of safety and health in the Workplace; and
(3)	promoting education and training programs to develop detailed knowledge of safety and health concerns and responsibilities in each individual in the Workplace.
ARTICLE 26 - BINDING CLAUSE
26.01	Where in this Agreement the masculine or the singular has been used, it shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter or plural, as the case may be, wheresoever the context of this Agreement requires.
26.02	Time shall in all respects be the essence of this Agreement.
26.03	This Agreement shall ensure to the benefit of , and be binding upon, the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
44
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties; hereunto set their hands and seals It! above written.
hereto have e day and year first
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN CANADA
AMALGAM TEXTILE Vtl UNION, LO
ATED CLOTHING AND JoRKERS AL459
per:,
per:
45
APPENDIX A. FORMING PART OF THIS CONTRACT RE FUND ADMINISTRATION
	LENGTH OF	LENGTH OF	‘DEATH	WEEKLY	HOSPITAL	MATERNITY
	TIME	TIME EMPLOYEE	BENEFIT	INDEMNITY	ALLOWANCE	PARENTAL
	BENEFITS	CAN SE	SPECIAL	(PAY FOR		
	CONTINUE	AWAY WITHOUT	RETIRING	SICK LEAVE)		
		NEW WAITING	ALLOWANCE			
		PERIOD				
LAY-OFF	90 DAYS	1 YEAR	YES	NO	YES	YES
TERMINATION	30 DAYS	SAME AS	QUIT	HOWEVER	IF UNION	GOES TO
QUIT	30 DAYS	30 DAYS	YES	NO	YES	YES
SHOP CLOSURE	90 DAYS	1 YEAR	Y F <5 - - -	NO	YES	YES
MATERNITY	LENGTH OF					
PARENTAL	LEAVE	1 YEAR	YES	NO	YES	YES
SICK	AS PER					
	AGREEMENT	t YEAR	YES	NO	YES	YES
LEAVE WITHOUT		END OF				
PAY	60 DAYS	LEAVE	YES	NO	YES	YES
WORKERS	LENGTH OF	END OF	YES	NO	YES	YES
COMPENSATION	LEAVE	COMPEN- SATION				
	BEREAVE	VISION	PRESCRIP	DENTAL	CHiRO	JURY	AMBULANCE
	MENT	CARE	TION	PLAN	PRACTIC	DUTY	FEES
	PAY	(EYE GLASSES)	DRUGS		CARE		
LAY-OFF	ONLY IF U.I.C. DOES NOT	YES	YES	YES	YES	NO	YES
TERMINTION	ARBITRA	AND	A U	RETROAC	REIN		
	-TION	WINS	BENEFITS	-TIVELY	-STATED		
GUfT	NO	YES	YES	YES	YES	No	YES
SHOP	ONLY IF	YES	YES	YES	YES	NO	YES
CLOSURE	U.I.C.						
	DOES NOT						
MATERNITY	ONLY IF	YES	YES	YES	YES	NO	YES
PARENTAL	U.I.C.						
	DOES NOT						
SICK	ONLY IF ul.C. DOES NOT	YES	YES	YES	YES	NO	YES
LEAVE WITHOUT	NO	YES	YES	YES	YES	NO	YES
PAY WORKERS COMPENSATION	NO	YES	YES	YES	YES	NO	YES
‘DEATH 0ENEFITS5PECIAL RETIRING ALLOWANCE . ANY MEMBER RETIRING EFFECTIVE APRIL 27, 1993 IS NO LONGER ENTITLED TO RECEIVE DEATH BENEFITS. INSTEADTHE MEMBER WILL RECEIVE THE SPECIAL RETIRING ALLOWANCE AS PER THE
The undersigned, being members of the Garment Manufacturers Association of Western Canada, hereby ratify, sanction andconfirm the Collective Agreement dated as of December 15,. 1992 between the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, Local 459 and the Garment Manufacturers Association of Western Canada, and acknowledge receipt of the delivery of a copy of such agreement.
ARTHURSTREET FASHIONS(1988).LTD.
PER------------------------------------
CANADIAN SHIRT AND OVERALL MFG. CO. LTD
PER------------------------------------
CANADIAN SPORTSWEAR CO. LTD
PER--------------------------------
FREED AND FREED INTERNATIONAL LTD - PANT SHOP
PER--------------------------------
GEMINI FASHIONS OF CANADA LTD.
pwa--------------------------------------
GIRLS WORLD (1988) FASHIONS
PER--------------------------------
48