COMBINED AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTERN GLOVE WORKS LTD AND
UNITED GARMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA T-OCAt. 35 (A.F.L.. C.I.O-. C.L.C.)
DECEMBER 1986
SEP - 91987
SOURCE
Article t * Da (invt iani Article 2	“	Recognition
AreiVt'c 3 * Access to flint*
Article 4	•	Conditloni of Laplojraent
Article 5	*	Supply of Workan
Article i * Prohibitions
Article 7	- Trim far O-s* on* Operation to Another
Article A * Seeelcscae of Dliputae
Article 9	*• Hour* of Work ist Overtire
Article 10 • Irtikdcvn of KechlBiry
Article ll * lilt Period
Article 12 - U-sy-Off» rod Tenporer; Help
Article 13 * Dlicharie and Diiclpllne
Article 1* - Holideyi with ?A7
Article 15 * Vetetiom with Pay
Article 14 * Weje Hated ’and Eclated Factor*
Article 17 * Outran
Article 1$ - Sitebllehiaj Piecavork frlcei
Article l? * Sitabllihiaj or Chaotioj Piecework Price e
Article 20 • Ooderpe^aenc to tforkan Article 21 - HiieelUneaue Article 22 - Leave of Absence
Article 23 * Coodwill
Article 24 - Sick Benefit Tgad and Cental Plan Article 25 * Pureeioa and Pavilion of Agreement
fit! 1
Pag* 2 P*S* 3 7*1* 3 P*S* 4 P*S* 4 Pat* S Pas* 7 Pas* 10 Pas* 11 Pas* 12 Pas* 12 Pas* 12 Pas* 13 Pas* 14 Pass 14 rat* 17 Pas* It Pate 10
Pas* 19 Pas* 19 Pas* 20 Pat* 21 Pas* 21 Pas* 22
MEMORANDUM OF AGREMENT made in duplicate as and from the 15th day of December, 1986,
II ETWEES:
GARMENT MAHUTACTURIHC ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN CANADA (hereinafter called the Association) composed of the several manufacturers who now execute or msy hereafter execute this Agreement and who become parties hereto (hereinafter called the "Manufacturers"),
OF THE FIRST PART,
and
UNITED GARMENT WORKERS CF AMERICA* LOCAL 35 (hereinafter called the "Union"),
OF M E JEXND PART.
WHEREAS the Manuftcturer* are engaged in the Manufacture of overalls, shirts, playsuits, pants, wind—breakers, sports apparel and other garments,
AND WHEREAS the Union is composed of Workers engaged in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will be from time to time employed by the manufacturers in their factories.
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WHNBSSEIH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
(a)
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS In this agreement:
"Average Hourly Rate" or "Average Hourly Earnings” means:	the average
hourly rate over a period of six (6) months immediately preceedinj the application of the average hourly rate or earnings based on the number of regular hours worked by such employee divided into the total earnings over the said six (6) months period during such regular hours. * work average to be calculated on actual hours performed on piece work. The six (6) month periods shall be calculated from the 15th day of December to the 14th day of June and from the 15th day of June to the 14 th day of December.
"Cutting Room Help" where referred to in this Agreement or schedule means:	personnel working in the Cutting Room, other than those using
cutting knives or shears for actual production purposes.
(b)
3
- 2 -
Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Dey
"Holiday’’mean* :
Nw Years' Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day
"Manufacturer*' means: r»
An employer who i$ fignator to the Heoorandua of Agreement.
"Worker** means I
An employee of a Manufacturer but for the purpose of thi s Agreement shall exclude mechanics, office staff, sales staff, foreman, foreladies.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOCWmOW
2.01	The Union recognizes the Association in the same manner as the Association recogni2e* the Union and the Union shall not make any deals or arrangements with individual Manufacturer* but shall deal with the Association collectively.
2.02	ISb Manufacturer shall hereafter make any agreement vith any individual workers nor exact or accept Afiy cash deposit or other security frets a worker nor enter into any agreement with any individual worker guaranteeing any length of employment.
2.03	The Union and its officials must not interfere with the discipline and management of the factories and must not restrict employment or curtail production.
2.04	The Association and each of its members agree that the Union is the
exclusive bargaining agent for the employee* of each member with reference towages, hours and working conditions.
2.0s The Union recognizes that the Company has the exclusive control of matters relating to management and conduct of its buiiness, the planning, processing and determining of methods of plant operation and the kind and use of equipment and materials.
U
- 3 -
2.06	Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the Ceopsny has the exclusive right to hire, promote, lay-of£, to discipline snd discharge employees for just cause.
2.07	Subject to the expressed provisions of t h i s Agreement, there statement of ajosgeaeot functions ih»ll not be deemed to exclude other functions not Specifically stated herein and any of the rights, powers or authorities which management h*» relating to management functions
are retained exclusively by the Company. The Company shall not exercise the right to direct the workforce in a discriminatory, unequitable, or unfair manner.
2.OS The employers recognize United Garment Workers of America as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for ell workers of Western Glove and Wescott factories in the Province of Manitoba.
ARTICLE -________g TP PLASUS
Hie business representative of the Union shall be admitted, at ill reasonable tiae during business hours to the premises of each Hsnufscturer when on legitimate burinerr for the Union.
ARTICLE 4 - CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
4.01	Every worker engaged in the manufacturing of garments in the factories of the Manufacturers shall be not less than sixteen (16) years of
age and must be a member in good standing of the Union. But, all learners and beginners shell be given six (6) weeks time to become members of the Union.
4.02	Every Ksnufscturer shall deduct from the vsges earned by each asaber of the union the monthly dues of the Union as the Union may determine from time to time and also any initiation fees (and stresrs in dues and assessments officially requested by the Union).
4.03	Workers aust not be engaged in Union activities during working hours
5
I -
or'on the Manufacturer'a preaises and sust be at work on tine, and rust not be absent without peroiaaion, but ouch peraisaion shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Manufacturer.
4.04	Each worker must do first class work ia keeping with Union principles.
ARTICLE 5 - SUPPLY OF WOtXSZS
5. 01 The Union agrees to co-operate in supplying to the Manufacturers a
constant and adequate supply of worker, as required in each factory.
It io the intent of thio agreement that the Union shall use *11 possible mesne to mure such adequate supply of help.
5.02	The Union undertaker and agrees, forthwith after the execution of
thi* agreement, tomaintain a special department of the Union for the unionising of a11 non-Union shops in thio district and the Union further agree* that it will suke a concerted and vigorous effort to accelerate the unionizing of non-Union shops, with the object of establishing uniformity and stability in this industry in this distric
ARTICLE 6 - ntOHIBITIOH'S
*
6.01	No contracting or sub-contracting shall be permitted in the factory or shop, the owner of which is not s Manufacturer.
6.02	No contracting or sub-contracting shall be permitted in any factory or shop the owner of which io a member of the Association if there io not sufficient work to keep the plant going.
6.03	No Manufacturer shall give out work to the heme of any perron.
6.04	Copies of til agreemento between the Union and the Manufacturers who are not members of the Astociatibn shall be lodged with the Association.
6.05	All knowledge obtained by the Union representatives in the various factories in the course of performing their Union duties are to be kept strictly confidential by them and Bust not be divulged to any other Manufacturer.
- 5
6.OS No Manuf actu r er aiiall engage o r 41 V. a port ia any locV-outi.
6,07 No worker shall take part in any »trUei, t lov*4ovnt , tU-lwnt, ucppafei, unusual holiday., or a cow cion of work, ordcviaj lawn of work of any nature or kind vhacaoevar.
arttct.e 7 . m>sro non ont opsaATtQH to akothB
7.01	The average hourly rate for a two (2) wee* period to be paid in case of i tranafer from one operation to another providing:
(a)	that the re'pue tt ii made by the Hanu(a<turer at a time when the employe* h«» aufficiant work at her awn operation;
(b)	That the tranafer ia not of a leaeonal type when chi* io normal to the operation of the Menu f ae tu rer;
(c)	That thepremfer ia not made w areault of chioj e-ove r» in types of % ) men 11 being made by the Manufacturer, aleo when this is inconsistent to the operation of the Manufacturer;
(d)	Worsen ohall not refute to do ray work which they are given whether ia*a conaieta of a transfer from one job to another
or not, provided, however, that a worker a ay reject a transfer from hia or her operation to another if there i» no work available at his or her own operation.
7.02	Inttn of dissatisfactionwith the work given, or the tramfer made, veriert must continue to do ouch work as is given or to which they have been transferred. but mey complain in the manner ret forth in Article 3 hereof, and the procedure therein provided for shall then be proceeded with, is that the complaint may be heard and adjudicated upon through the machinery provided by said Article 3 ,
7.03	Whenever there ohall be a breach of any of the provisions of thi» Article by the water.. or by any of them, no negotiations shall take place, and no complaints shall be heard or adjudicated upon, until all worker a who have committed such breach ore back to work in the
usual way unless the portico othervi11 agree.	■ ■ - . ?
If any 'Jrx<r vtaai
a breach of the prt/ldani of thio Article 7, then the Union vil l held fully responsible for such breach and agrees to discipline a1 vcrkin “vho commit the 11C4,
7.04	Wtin earned on piecework iliill not be utilised in any put of an
working day or vdi to cover work ?■* t forai! on time work transfer a (i'l'jivJ operation.	who have an operation which provide
• hoc? hours in each day thill be granted a umaJ operationto pro 40 hours whenever possible (seniority shall prevail).
7.05	iftto an operator i i	to an alternate operation tht ih*l
be paid* iplU incentive bonus it fallavj;
*) average hourly 4iroIn^ j or b) tplU incentive'
Split incentive shill ■;on 11 K
o£ the following breifcbovn:
Example; fiiotwort ticket* ■ iOl *• 50! of average hourly earnings.
Provided the opiruer does not make more than her average
piece Vork on direct piece work rate.
The t bov4 percentage can be changed according to the severity of
the change. The above is to apply if the operator it not on her regular operation.
Etample:	When an operator i i requested to do other work on her own
machine with new methods which is entirely different to her regular operation this shall be oon i it! c <1 a transfer When an operator has one or more imbllihil ri ■: lo<vs on a fij'jln b*ii» the additional operations shall not be considered a triAifn,
7.06	No utility operator will be given any operation vh ich will cm** shortage of work on in; particular line.
8
- 7
Floaters shall be laid off by seniority.
guaranteed a forty (40) hour week when other senior employees are being laid off.
Com idert c ios shall be given vhtfl delivery problems are in question. Operators out of work by seniority shall be offered t transfer to operations lyiiU'oU that are not assigned to any particular operator.
ARTICLE 8 - SSTTUSaTT OF DISPUTES
3.01	A grievance {i any controversy, complaint, misunderstanding or ditpuc*
arising as to the meaning, application or observance of any of the provisions of this agreement.
8.02	All grievances shall be taken up on Company time during regular working hours for the settlement of disputes and grievances with no deductionof ■yjtnl/or benefits of such representative for time spent during working hours.
8.03	If a Shop it«t oi is required to be temporarily absent from his
station or department in connectionwith a grievance. he shall first notify tht	Supervisor in that section or department before
ittvinj his station. He must then report to the Supervisor in charge of the section visited before contacting any employee in the said section.
8.04	It is agreed that a desirable feature of the grievance procedure will be to settle all grievances promptly. and that consultation in any step of the procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that friction and animosity will be reduced to a minimum.
8 .OS After the initial ottur t»(i of the grievance a Shop Steward shall be present at all meetings between Management end Employee.
8.06 Step One
An employee having a grievance shall take it up with his or her
his or
section Supervisor immediately. Tfi-s Supervisor dall-,,, her decision within two (2) working days.
Step Two
If the grievance is not settled as outlined io Step One, then the grievance shall be submitted by a Shop St award in writing to the Plant Manager within five (5) working days l the tUt the grievance is presented under Step One, and the Plant Kanagar shall render his decision in writing to the Shop Strvud within two (2) working days from the time the written griavaaoa was receivedby him
Step Three
If the decision of the Plant H i a ag.s r is a oh' accepted b; the Local Union then the matter will be discussed at a wating within five (5) working days with 'the Business Agent and Local Grievance Ccsaittee.
If the matter is not resolved then the matter can be submitted to Arbitration by either party.
8.07	Both parties canragueit a raaionibla a*tami« of time limits stated in this grievance procedure provided that such extension
ii mutually agreed upon by both parties in writing.
8.08	If the grievance or complaint is «n error in oa Uv 111 ion , then < 11 ranuaaratian due tha employee shall be aada retroactive to the date of the initial ooo u r a no a
8.09	If t'na nlJ decision i i not accepted by either of the partial to the grievance, or if no decision ii rendered 67 the Grievance Committee ai required by '2,06 hereof, then an/ont of the parties so affected may require that a Board of Arbitration be appointed to finally settle the grievance and for such porpota shall service notice inwriting upon the other party setting out:
(a) The names of all the Manufacturers andVoritri involved in the
9
4 Upuf, 4;
The nine of the Arbitrator U has tp$lnfc*«dj
<b)
The issues snd/or complaints touching upon the grievance which
it U reguesting the Board of Arbitration to settle.
Within five (5) working days of receipt of the aforesaid notice, the
Otherrptrey named therein shall name the Arbitrator it has appointed
and forward notice of such appointment to the first named Arbitrator
and the opposite party setting out the issues and/or complaints which ,	,	,	,	If either party
it is asking the Board of Arbitration to settle.
fails to appoint an Arbitrator within the time	the
Minister of Labour shall be requested by either party to make such
appointment on behalf of the party so failing to appoint.
$,\\ Within seven (7) calendar days after the appointment of the second
Arbitrator, the two (2) appointed Arbitrators shall appoint a third
Arbitrator, who shall tct as impartial Chairman of the Arbitration
Board, but if the two (2) Arbitrators cannot agree within the time
specified upon cfte appointment of a third Arbitrator, then either
of the appointed Arbitrators shall forthwith raquss t the Mini Met of
Labour to appoint such third Arbitrator wbo sbaH act as Ecrrp-arcia.L
Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
The hearing of the Arbitration Board shall be limited to the set forth in the notices referred to in paragraphs 3.09 and 3,10,
8,13 The Arbitration Board shall hear and determine the issues an-d/o? complaints with all reasonable dispatch and the decision of A majority of the Ac3Uf*f.of* shall be the Award of the Board, and the Award of the Arbitration Board shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned.
l\
- 10 -
Notwithatanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement contained the parties hereto may extend any of the time limits specified in this Article for such further period as they may mutually agree. 8-14 Each party shall pay the costs of its appointed Arbitrator and one-half (112) of the cost of the impartial Chain&aa of the Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE 9 - BOtraS OF WORK AND OVERT Dig
9.01	The standard work week shall consist of forty (40) regular hours of employment consisting of eight (8) hours per day, Honday to Friday inclusive in each calendar week; provided that where a Holidi occurs on any day within a standard work week, the regular hours of employment shall exclude eight (8) hours per Holiday.
9.02	Whenever a Manufacturer require* overtime work the Union and the Workers must «o*oper«te fully whenever possible.
9.03	OVERTIME DURING STANDARD WORE AAffiL
(a)	All work in excess of'eight (8) regular hours per day during
the standard work week shall be considered as overtime where regular i* the normal operating time for that shift.
(b)	Commencing on the 15th day of December I960, all work in extesj of eight (8) hours per day during the standard work week shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half < %) .
CO N) overtime shall be performed on a Union Meeting night, which falls on the (irst Wednesday of every month (excluding July and August).
9.04	OVERTIME ON SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS
(a) All work done on Saturdays shall be considered *• over-time and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (O.
- 11 -
All work done on a Holiday, shall be considered as overtime
(o)
and ihill be paid for at the rate of triple (3) time, that is double (2) time for the work performed, plus payment for the holiday i> provided by Article 15 hereof.
9.OS	Worker shall engage in any overtime work in any factory or shop
in this industry other than the factory of his or her own Ktnuf»ctur«t without the explicit written consent of the »«id Manufacturer.
ART TOT ,F. 1,0 - MEAKDOWH OF HACBIHEBV
10.01	When a Worker reports for work, he shall be guaranteed * minimum of four (4) consecutive hour8 of work or*^our (4) hours of pay at the average hourly rate unless he has previously been advised by the Manufacturer not to report for work.
10.02	The provisions ret out is sub—paragraph 10,01 hereof shall not apply when the plant it unable to ■;c-saeo,i e operation due to any matter, cause or thing beyond the control of the Manufacturer.
10.03	A worker rust report to a Foreman or Forelady when his machine
io not in suitable working order, piece work average shall be paid for loss of time. The Worker will again report to the Foreman or Forelady who will give him or her other employment or permission to go h'i** , Where a machine delay has occurred, after the first 15 minutes waiting time, piece work tverishall b‘« ■piib for loss of time.
10.04	Employee must report breakdown of machinery to Supervisor. Supervisor shall mark paper or punch out card to record time. No operator shall be penalized because of delay by the mechanic servicing another machine.
- 12 -
10 05 ^ien operator is requested to move to another acchi*... of the same type on a temporary ba*i* while her own machine i» being repaired, the temporary machine shall be serviced (thread, etc.) to enable the operator to perform her piece work rate.
ARTICLE 11 - REST PERIOD
11.01	There are to be two (2) ten (10) minute rest period*, one "organize and the other to be arranged for by each Manufacturer.
11.02	When 2 hours Of overtime is requested there shall be a 15 minute break granted for supper. When 3 hours overtime is requested. 20 minutes shall be granted.
ARTICLE 12 * LAY-OFFS AND TEMPORARY HELP
12.01	Whenever lay —offs Arc necessary, they are to be put into effect on a departmental or sectional seniority basis. During slack seasons each Manufacturer shall have the option of dividing the work so chat each Worker will receive approximately an equal aooufi of work or of dividing tjie hours on equal working time.
12.02	No temporary help shall be employed by the Manufacturers unless there li a full week'1* work for the permanent Workers. The Union ia to supply all temporary help when available provided the same !• acceptable to the Manufacturer.
12.03	When a lay-off for (2) two weeks or more becomes neCA^sary, eoplo) laid off shall be re—employed in order of their seniority on an operational basis providing there is no make up in pay before any new employees are hired.
ARTICLE 13 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
13.01	Full power of discharge and discipline lies- with the Manufacturer but this power shall be exercised with justice and with regard fo
-li-
the reasonable rights of the Worker. The power of discharge shall be exercised only through a fully authorized and responsible representative of the management.
13.02	No Worker shall be discharge or discriminated against for Union activities and the Union shall not require the discharge of any Worker unless such worker is replaced by the Union by another
person satisfactory to the particular Manufacturer,
ARTICLE 14 - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
14.01	(A) Every worker who is a member of the Union shall receive pay
for every Holiday bared on hit average hourly or piece work earnings, and luch worker hat worked* the regular hours of work on the work days immediately precceding and succeeding the particular Holiday unless;
(B)	he has been prevented from so working by bona fide illness, or <C> he has been absent with the consent of the Manufacturer
provided that such absence does not exceed thirty (30) working days,
(D> I f any worker shall have reasonable ground* for requiring a leave of absence of five (5) working days, the Manufacturer shall not unreasonably withhold his content to such absence, it b eing understood and agreed, for the purpose hereof, that the term "leave of absence" is exclusive of any absence due to bona fide iltnes#,
14.02	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this agreement contained, every worker who is a member of the Union shall be paid for Christmas Day, New Year's Day and Boxing Day at the particular worker's average hourly or piece work earnings.

14 -
14.03	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this agreement contai any worker who terminated his employment during the calendar week in which any of the aforementioned holiday* occur without giving at leaat one (1) vee'Uf notice prior to the date of terminating the employment, fhall not be entitled to payment €or such holiday
14.04	When any of the raid holiday* fall within a worker's vacation period, he shall be entitled to an extra day1* pay in lieu thereo
14.05	When any of the said holiday* at set out in Article 1, paragraph fall* on a Saturday ora Sunday aaaa aha 11 be observed on a Frida or Monday, whichever is agreed upon by management and the Union.
ARTICLE 1S - VACATIONS WITH PAY
15.01	Every worker who completer a year*! tervice with a Manufacturer as at July 1st of'any year i* entitled to an annual vacation of t (2) vtekt with pay based upon hi* average hourly earning*.
15.02 The period commencing the 1st day of July in any year and terminating on the 30th day of June in the following year, shall be used for determining the number of regular hours of employment constituting a year's service.
15.03	Every worker who has completed (1) one year service shall be entitled to (2) two weeks vacation with pay.
15.04	Every worker who has completed (5) five years service shall be entitled to (3) three weeks vacation with pay.
15.05	Every worker who has completed (15) fifteen year* continuous serv with the s*se company shall be entitled to (4) four weeks vacatic with pay at the rate of 8Z.
The (4) fourthweek vacation shall be taken at the discretion of the firm.
15.06	Every Worker not otherwise entitled to two (2) weeks vacation wit
- IS -
pay ** hereinbefore provided in this Article 15 shall be treated in the following manner:
Amount of Vacation Pay
(A)	time Workers
Every worker shall be paid his or her regular hourly earnings prevailing at the beginning of his or her vacation.
(B)	Piece Workers
Every worker who works on an incentive basis, the amount of vacation pay payable shall be calculated on his or her average weekly earnings for regular working hours during the six months iamediately preeeeding the beginning of the vaeat ion.
(C) Every worker not entitled to the foregoing paragraphs A and E shall be paid 4Z of his earnings exclusive of overtime, from the date of coeaneneeeent of his employment.
(D)	Where a holiday defined in Article 1, C occurs during the . period of a vacation with pay, the period of vacation with pay shall be lengthened by one working day.
15.07	A worker shall be entitled to vacation with pay during the period from the 15th day of Hay to the first day of September as the Manufacturer may find convenient, unless the worker and the Manufacturer agree otherwise.'
15.08	Vacation pay shall be paid to each worker just prior to commencement of such worker's vacation. In case of teraination of employment.
as the Vacation with Pay Act provides in Chapter V20 Article 10 and 11.
15.09	The manufacturer shall place a Vacation Schedule on the bulletin board no later than April 30th of each year thereafter to enable
- 16 -
the employees to specify date and length of vacation ti* Preference in scheduling of vacations shall be based on
seniority.
An employee shall r*c*iv* an unbroken period of
vacation unlei* otherwise mutually agreed upon by the employee and the employer.
ARTICLE 16 - WAGE BATED AND RELATED [ft---
16.01
16.02
In all questions of wage rates, our garment industry in Manitoba i» a separate entity whose wager *re affectedly/ local conditions prevailing in our own industry here.
The Manufacturer shall submit to the Union upon recpiest. aesi-annua statements indicating the following information for each enployee: (a) clock number rnd name (b) description of operations performed (e) average hourly earning
16.03	TlHE WORK AND PIECE WORK CUTTERS
2Z effective January 19, W87 2X effective December 15, 1937 2X effective Decerrber IS, 1933
13.04	All wager shall be paid weekly unless otherwise agreed to by the Union and the individual H anu i ac t u r e r.
16.05	Sampler are to be paid for on timework rates.
16.06	Time work shall not be the basis of payment where piece work pricei are provided.
16.07	Pressers piecework tickets shall be time studied on i 0 X different!
16.08	Employees below base rate shall be reviewed and re-evaluated every six months by both Company and Union. Upon evaluation, one
• l? -
month shall be allowed for the employee to show improvement.
ABTICLE 17 - CPTTKBS
17.01	There shall be three (3) classes of cutters, namely, First Class Chtta:.. Second Class Cutterm. Apprentices of Third Class Chtta:.. First Class Cutterm shall make markers and trade patterns to the extent of adjusting such patterns up and down one mire; • Second Class Cutter shall be fully responsible for him lay by taking the marker, checking it for omissions, laying up and cutting properly.
17.02	Each manufacturer shall employ at least one (1) First Class Cutter except where such manufacturer (i.e. proprietor thereof himself does all the marking in such plant).
17.03	The Manufacturers agree that the Cutter's minimum hourly rater shall be as follows for the period effective January 19, 1987, December 15, 1987 , and December 15, 1988.
First Class
Second Class (1st Year)
Second Class (2nd Year)
Third Class (by end of 1st year)
Third Class (by end of 2nd year)
Third Class (by end of 3rd yes r)
JAN. 19/87
59,01
$8.63
58.73
58.25
58.31
58.42
15/87
59,19
$8.80
53.90
53.42
58.48
58.59
DEC. 15/88 59,3? $8.98
$9.08
53.59
$8.65
53.76
- 18 -
jQTTrr.e 18 - ESTABLISHING PIECEWOKX PRICES IB.01 Line Svaten
Tie worker (hall be paid hie or bar previoue tvenge hourly
earnings until:
(a)	The hUnuf»ctur«r shall »et a piece rate price to fit the new condition8 on Che job.
(b)	If after working on the operation for a period of two (2) weeks the Worker feel* that the new piece rate price ie inadequate, a written coapliiat to that effect *tull be *ubaitted by the shop chairlady. The Manufacturer shall then re-check the rate and meet with the Union repreieotit ive for settlement; '
(c)	In the event that che meeting referred to in subparagraph (b) hereof doe* not re*ult in settlement of the eoapUiot, the di»puce may then be dealt with as provided in Article 8 hereol
18,02 If after a further period of, two (2) weeks no written grievance
h,
new piece rate price.
ARTICLE 18 • £dT.tSUS3IH0 OR CHAMCIHC PtgCSVO&I PRICES
19.01	V»g« rates in effect jfter Chi* contract is established are not to be changed unlei* new techniques ore developed or new methods are instituted, and that to be done with the <on»«t of the
M my f io ty r * r and the Union.
19.02	The Company shall furnish the Union Representative with oopi*» of all rate notices, motion and time study *naly»U for»ll operations.
19.03	"Where changes are made under new conditions, revised work methods,
- 19 -
the Induatriai Engineer ahall provide a luaaary to verify the changer.
19,04	Upon introduction of a tentative or estimated itindard the
employee will be paid at her average hourly earnings for a period of tug (2) week#.
In the event that after two (2) week* a finalized standard ia not available, the operator ahall be paid on a iplit incentive until iuch time as the finalired standard it iaaued.
ARTICLE 20 * UEPERPAYMEHT TO WORKERS
If a Hanufacturer i« found to have underpaid any Worker contrary to the ter»» of tbit Agreement, the Union thill have the right to demand and the Hanufacturer ahall pay to tuch Worker the mount underpaid.
At no time shall the piece work earned on eatabliahed piece work prices in any part of the day be utilized to cover make up oviag to change.
.ARTICLE 21 - MSCELLANECUS
21.01	The Union undertakes and agrees not to request in the courte of negotiations with any other employer conditions of work including rater of pay that art le«* favourable than thoae provided in this Agreement.
21.02	in accordance with the ipirit of thia Agreement, all parties pledge theftselves to co-operate in making the arrangement, aucceaaful, and to use their influence and best effort! for the promotion and development of goodwill; it being understood that it is not the intention that this agreement ahall operate in any way i o a i to restrict out—put or production nor impede processes of manufacture of management, but to encourage maximum production
- 20 -
with minimum watte and fair equitable treatment to every one concerned.
21 03 Nothing herein conrained ahall be construed so as to make any
Manufacturer responsible or liable for the covenants, agreeaenti, acts or omieelon* of any other Manufacturer.
21.04	Each Manufacturer agrees to furnish a suitable bulletin board or boards for the use of the Union and such board shall be located in a conspicuous place in Che area where the Workers are working. or lunch rooms, but in any event, at least one bulletin board on each floor of a Manufacturer1 a premises.
21.05	Piece work employees must submit all tickets for hours performed each day.
21.06	The Manufacturer shall attempt to have the Union Label sewn into che garment.
ARTICLE H - LEAVE OF ABSEHCE
22 01 An employee who has three or more years of employment ahall be entitled to a leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed eight (8) weeks, once every three years OR
22.02 An employee who has five (5) or more years of employment shall be entitled to a leave of absence without p*y for a period not to exceed three (3) months, once every five years.
22.03	All requests shall be granted according to the ditftretion of
management and the Union based upon written application, productivity and seniority. An	requesting a leave of
absence must apply in writing to the Company six months in advance
22.04	On hi» or her return he or she shall be re-instated in their former position without loss f seniority.
22.05	Leave of absence must be in writing. Reply by management must be
- 21 -
authorized in writing. The Union must be notified of same.
22.06	A11 employee ahall be granted up to two (2) eonths leave of
absence immediately on compassionate grounds.
22.07	Ms tarn i tv Laava:
A) After twelve (12) consecutive month* of continuous employne an employee i* entitled to a aeventeen (17) week leave of sbsence for pregnancy. This request Bust be in writing to the employer and a copy thereof sent to the Union.
J) The employee MOST return on said date to be reinstated in her former position without loss of seniority.
C) Under unforeseen eircuastsoces, Che employee may request an extension on the leave of sbience for a period up to six (t weeks. Paragriph* A and B shall apply to all extensions.
ARTICLE 23
23.01	Where in this egreement the msseuline or the singular his been used, it shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter or plural tt the case may be wheresoever the context of this Agreement requires.
23.02	Tiae shall in all respects be the essence of thie Agreement.
23.03	Thla Agreement shall enaura to the benefit of and be binding u) < the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, sdainistretor*, successor's and aaaigna.
ARTICLE 2A
2A.01 WHEREAS THE UNION and the HAHUFACTURERS who are members of the
l3
- 22 -
CAAMiKT HARUFACTURaRS" ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN CANADA, and who
have contractual relation, with the UNITED CAAKShT WORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 35, have previously agreed to establish *U«*tth and Welfare Plans" (which plans are now *Aain i 11* ryi by corrmittee. consisting of equal r epr« ) *nt 11 Lot f‘co-3 the Union and from the Manufacturers), it i» now agreed that an additional purpo»« of the Fund will be to provide "severancepay" to the employee upon leaving his employer, in accordance with the rules and bylaw* as ret out by the above committees.
24.02	It i * further agreed that the MANUFACTURER shall contribute to the FUND the K_m of (four do 111 r i) $4,00 each month, for each Union employee.
24,0$ Dental Plan
It is further agreed that the Manufacturer shall contribute 1QQJ Boric Dental Plan to be effective fromDecember 15, 14S0, This is to continue from year to year at the prevailing fee The Baric Plan to cover pviodoncal scaling. "
ARTICLE 25 - DURATION AW REVISION OF AC8SSMSMT
25.01	This Agreement shall be effective and operative, except as may be othervise expressly provided herein, from the 15th day of December 1$I6 and shall continue in full force and effect up to the close of business on the 14th day of December >*3989 and thereafter from year to year, unless either the Union or the Association give written notice to the other of its desire to revise this Agreement or to conclude a n*w collective agreement as hereinafter provided.
25.02	The notice hereinbefore referred to may be given at any time after the 1st day of October and not later than the 15th day of
- 23
November in any year during which the raid Agtaeaent cxpirea
IN WITNESS WHEREOr the partita hereto have hereunto ret their handa and teat* the day and year firat above written.