' “OURCS	a		
	91	63	o?\
TERW..	100 /	AL	
COLLECTIVE j^REElsilE^ifL
■:OM:.Rc j	.
Levi Strauss & Co. (Canada) Inc. Stoney Creek, Ontario
And:
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND
TEXTILE EMPLOYEES, AFL-CIO, CLC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Levi Strauss & Co. (Canada) Inc.
LOCAL 2307
PAGE
ABSENCES	ARTICLE XII ........
ANNUAL VACATION	ARTICLE VI..........
ARBITRATION	ARTICLE X............ 14
CHECKOFF	ARTICLE IV .........
DISCHARGE	ARTICLE XI .......... 14
GENERAL
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	ARTICLE IX .......... 12
HOLIDAYS	ARTICLE V11 ........
INSURANCE BENEFITS	ARTICLE V ..........
JOB GROUPS ................................. 24
JOB POSTING	ARTICLE XVIII ....... 21
LETTER OF INTENT	INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE
BONUS ............... 27
LETTER OF INTENT	RETURN TO WORK ..... 28
LETTER OF INTENT	THE TOYOTA SEWING
SYSTEM............... 27
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	ARTICLE I ..........
NO STRIKE OR LOCKOUT	ARTICLE III ........
NON-DISCRIMINATION	ARTICLE XIII ........ >8
PERFORMANCE EXPECTATIONS ARTICLE XIX .......
SENIORITY/LAY-OFF RECALL ARTICLE XIV ........ 18
SEPARABILITY	ARTICLE XV .......... 19
TECNOLOGICAL CHANGE	ARTICLE XVI1 ........ 29
TERM OF AGREEMENT	ARTICLE XXI ........
UNION RECOGNITION	ARTICLE II............ 1
WAGES	ARTICLE XVI ......... 19
WAGE SCHEDULE................................ 26
WORKWEEK AND OVERTIME ARTICLE VI11 .......... 10
This AGREEMENT made and entered into this 2nd day of April 1998, by and between Levi Strauss & Co. (Canada) Inc., at 563 Barton Street, Stoney Creek, Ontario, Canada, hereinafter referred to as “Employer” and the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, CLC, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”.
GENERAL
Unless the contract indicates otherwise, the masculine pronoun refers to either a male or female person.
ARTICLE I - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
1.01	The Employer has and shall continue to have full and complete control over matters relating to the management and conduct of its business, the planning, processing and determining of methods of plant operation and the kind and use of equipment and materials. The Employer shall have the right to continue or discontinue the whole or any part of its business. Except as otherwise provided by the Agreement, the Employer shall have the right of selection and direction of the working force including the size and composition thereof, the right to hire, promote, transfer, make lay-offs for lack of work, the right to retire employees at the established retirement age and for reasonable rules and regulations which do not conflict with the terms and provisions of said Agreement. Except as specifically ceded, abridged or modified by the terms and provisions of the Agreement, these enumerations of management functions shall not be deemed to exclude other functions not enumerated herein. Any of the rights, powers or authorities which management has relating to management functions are retained exclusively by the management of the Employer.
ARTICLE II ■ UNION RECOGNITION
2.01	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees of Levi Strauss & Co. (Canada) Inc., at 563 Barton Street, Stoney Creek, Ontario, engaged in production
Page 1
work, save and except supervisors, instructors or trainers, maintenance personnel, quality resource personnel, persons above the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff and anyone employed on a casual or part-time basis to perform work normally done by persons outside of the bargaining unit.
2.02	The Employer shall meet with no more than six (^representatives of the employees as the Union may elect or appoint. A Union Representative, after first notifying the appropriate management representative, shall have the right to enter the work area of the plant during working hours for the purpose of investigating any grievance or complaint. A Union Representative performing such duties shall not interrupt or interfere with the plant operations.
2.03	The local president and stewards shall, with the approval of the supervisor of the department in which she is employed, be permitted during regular working hours, without loss of pay, to leave her regular duties for a reasonable period of time to investigate grievances or complaints, which may include off-site meetings. Union Committee Members will give reasonable notice of the need to leave their regular duties and permission by management will not be unreasonably withheld.
Union members shall, with the prior approval of management, be permitted to perform union building functions within the bargaining unit, such as training, surveys, petitions, votes or clerical work. These activities shall be conducted before or after working hours and will not interfere with an employee’s ability to perform their job duties.
2.04	The Union acknowledges that the local president and stewards have regular job duties to perform on behalf of the Employer and will not absent themselves from those duties unreasonably in order to investigate and deal with grievances and complaints of employees.
2.05	The Employer agrees to submit to the Union, copies of lists of employees that are hired, laid-off or recalled. Such lists shall
Page 2
include the names of the employee, whether they are temporary or full time, their start date and the job to which they will placed. The Company will provide such lists within 48 hours of the hire,
lay-off or recall and the Union will report any errors or suspected
errors to the Company within 48 hours of receiving such lists. Any liability, on the part of the Company will only be assumed from the date the Union reports the error or suspected error and not from the date of the list.
ARTICLE m - NO STRIKE OR LOCKOUT
3.01	The Union hereby undertakes that it shall not directly or indirectly cause any cessation of or interference with production in the plant of the Employer and the Employer shall not engage in any lockout and all differences between the parties hereto shall be settled in accordance with the methods herein provided.
3.02	Any strike, slow-down, stoppage, lockout, walk-out or the calling out of workers for the meeting during working hours and/or cancellation of overtime which in anyway interferes with or interrupts production in the establishments of the Employer is prohibited and is a vital violation of the Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - CHECKOFF
4,01	The Employer shall deduct from the wages of employees upon written authorization of the employees, Union Dues, Initiation Fees and Assessments. The amounts deducted pursuant to such authorization shall be transmitted at monthly intervals to the properly designated official of the Union together with a list of names of the employees from whom the deductions were made on forms to be provided by the Employer. Sums deducted by the Employer as Union Dues, Initiation Fees or Assessments shall be kept separate and apart from the general funds of the Employer and shall be deemed trust funds.
Page 3
4.02	The Union agrees to hold the Employer harmless in the event that it is required by law to make any restriction of Dues and Initiation Fees and/or Assessments which have been deducted and transmitted to the Union in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
4.03	Membership in the Union is required as a condition of employment for any employee hired as a regular full-time employee and shall commence from the first day of employment. The probationary period shall be for a period of ninety (90) working days. Membership in the Union requires the payment of Union dues and entitles the employee to Union representation from day one of employment.
4.04	Definition:
Personnel contracted on a temporary basis to meet some emergency or replace permanent employees who may be absent due to illness, or leave of absence.
Term:
The term of any contract with temporary personnel shall not exceed ninety (90) days of work unless extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
Seniority:
Such temporary personnel shall have no seniority nor he bargaining unit members, nor shall their probationary periods commence until such time as they qualify for and are offered a permanent position. It is further understood that all temporary personnel will be laid off prior to any bargaining unit member.
ARTICLE V - INSURANCE BENEFITS
5.01	Upon completion of the probationary period, the Employer shall provide the following benefits as detailed in the Employer’s Benefit Booklet:
Page 4
(a)	Life Insurance of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000),
(b)	a Supplementary Health Care Plan which includes an employee vision care, major medical, and hospital expense coverage,
(c)	a Weekly Indemnity Plan (the cost of any premium increase will be shared equally between the Employer and the Employee with the employee's share not to exceed three ($3.00) per month, and
(d)	a Basic Dental Plan.
5.02	The benefits provided under this Agreement as set out in Paragraph 5.01, are provided by an Insurance Company. Any dispute regarding benefit entitlement is between the employee and the Insurance Company. The Employer will co-operate with an employee who is seeking a resolution of said dispute with the Insurance Company.
5.03	In addition to the benefits provided by the Employer through an Insurance Company, as set out in Paragraph 5.01, the Employer will also provide:
(a)	Ontario Health Insurance Plan, for either single or family coverage as required by the employee. If premiums would be increased during the life of the agreement, the employee's share of the increase would not exceed six dollars ($6.00) per month,
(b)	at the sole discretion of the Employer, on jobs designated as requiring footwear, the Employer shall reimburse 100% of the cost of such footwear to a maximum of $80,00 during a two-year period. If employees on designated jobs can demonstrate that shoes have become worn during the two (2) year period, they will be replaced to a limit of $80,00.
(c)	to employees who have completed two (2) years of service, membership in the Employer's Hourly Employee's Pension Plan. The benefit under the Pension Plan for eligible employees is:
Page 5
‘	for service prior to March 9, 1995, eight dollars ($8.00)per month
per year of service,
'	for service from March 9, 1995, ten dollars ($10.00) per month
per year of service,
*	for service from March 9, 1996, eleven dollars ($1 1.00)per month per year of service,
*	for service from March 9, 1997, twelve dollars ($12.00) per month per year of service.
■	for service from March 9, 1998, thirteen dollars ($13.00)per
month per year of service,
for service from March 9, 1999, fourteen dollars ($14.00)per month per year of service,
-	for service from March 9, 2000, sixteen dollars ($16.00)per
month per year of service.
Further details are listed in the Plan document.
1(d) at the Employer’s discretion, eligible tuition may be reimbursed.
ARTICLE VI - ANNUAL VACATION
6.01	Company Service for vacation entitlement shall be measured as of your service (hire) date.
Vacation entitlement shall be as follows:
(a)	Where an employee has less than one (1) year of Company Service, the employee shall receive 4% of gross earnings from the date on which vacation pay is calculated.
(b)	Where the employee has completed one (I) year of Company Service, the employee shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
(c)	Where the employee has completed four (4) years of Company Service, the employee shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
(d)	Where the employee has completed nine (9) years of Company
Page 6
Service, the employee shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay.
(e)	Where the employee has completed nineteen (19) years of Company Service, the employee shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation with pay.
(effective December 1st, 1998)
6.02	Company Service for vacation pay purposes shall be measured from your service (hire) date to the first week of the month preceding that in which the employee takes his vacation.
Vacation pay shall be calculated as fallows:
(a)	Where the employee has less than one (1) year of Company Service (per 6.01) the vacation pay will be calculated as 4% of gross earnings from the date of hire to the date on which vacation entitlement is based,
(b)	For the purposes of administration, the minimum vacation pay will calculated at base rate plus bonus for all vacations. An annual adjustment will be made to calculate vacation as the greater of
1)	base rate plus bonus times the number of vacation entitlement weeks, or
2)	2% per week of entitlement of gross earnings (based on a 52 week period).
For the purposes of calculating vacation pay, gross earnings will include regular pay, weekly bonuses, overtime pay, shift premiums, statutory and floater holiday pay and will exclude other vacation payments in the period.
(c)	Employees who have been absent from work for more than 240 hours during the period from July 1 to June 30 will receive vacation pay at 2% of gross earnings for each week of entitlement. Employees who were absent due to layoff, Maternity Leave, WCB, or Weekly Sick Benefits will be paid their weeks of vacation entitlement as in 6.02 b) above.
Page 7
6.03	Vacation pay will be paid to the employee only when the vacation is taken. It is understood that any vacation pay and entitlements not taken in the vacation period (December 1 to November 30) will not carry forward to the subsequent vacation year unless mutually agreed by the Company and the Union.
6.04	Employees who terminate with less than one (1) year of Company Service (per6,01), will receive 4% of gross earnings from the date of hire to the date of termination.
6.05	Employees who terminate with more than one (1) year of Company Service as of the date of termination, will receive vacation pay calculated at 4% of gross earnings for the period beginning with the day following the last day of scheduled plant vacation, ending on the day of termination and exclusive of any vacation pay received for additional vacation entitlement earned prior to the scheduled plant shutdown.
6.06	The Employer normally schedules summer plant vacation shutdown(s) each calendar year. The Employer agrees to make every reasonable effort to announce vacation shutdown(s) and floater holidays no later than October 1st of the year prior to the applicable year.
6.07	An employee who becomes ill while on vacation may substitute that period while ill with sick leave, if the employee produces a certificate from a registered medical doctor verifying the nature of the illness and the period during which the employee was incapacitated.
6.08	Vacation requests outside of the shutdown period (as determined in 6.06 above) shall be submitted as follows:
(a)	Employees wishing vacation in December or January shall submit their request prior to September 1st of the year preceding the vacation year, The Employer shall respond to such employee
Page 8
request in writing by September 15th.
(b)	Employees wishing vacation outside of 6.08 (a) shall submit their request prior to November 1st of the year preceding the vacation year. The Employer shall respond to such employee request in writing by December 1st.
Vacation will be granted according to plant seniority depending on production needs (such issues as product demand, headcount, absenteeism etc. will be considered each year to determine the number of employees that can be scheduled off for vacation at any one time) of the facility.
Any employee who does not submit their requests prior to November 1st will have their vacation scheduled for them by the Employer after all submitted vacations are scheduled. The Employer shall inform such employees of their vacation time, in writing, by December 15th.
6.09	Employees returning late from their vacation without prior authorization by the Company may lose their job classification, operation or particular type of work unless there is a good, substantiatedcause for the delay.
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS
7.01	For each calendar year the Employer shall grant to each of its eligible employees the following nine (9) holidays:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
In Addition, three (3) floating holidays will be granted by the Employer at dates to be determined by mutual agreement between
Page 9
the Employer and the Union (per 6.06). The Employer shall pay to the employees for each holiday at base rate plus bonus.
7.02	An employee shall be eligible for holiday pay and floaterpay if he has worked his regularly scheduled work day immediately preceding and following the holiday or floater except that authorized absence shall not cause an employee to be ineligible for holiday pay. The Employer may require the employee to furnish satisfactory proof of illness. including a doctor’s certificate.
7.03	An employee on lay-off status is entitled to holiday pay if the layoff during which the holiday occurred is not of more than two weeks duration.
7.04	If the holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be observed as the holiday. If the holiday falls on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the holiday.
7.05	An employee returning from an absence which is covered by U.I.C. benefits will receive payment for statutory holidays during this period at base rate plus bonus minus the benefit paid by U.I.C.
ARTICLE VIII - WORK WEEK AND OVERTIME
8.01	A normal work week shall consist of forty (40) hours divided into five (5) working days from Monday to Friday inclusive. The normal work week is defined to commence at 12:01 am Monday and ends at 11:59 p.m. Friday. Employees requesting flexible work arrangements may make such requests, in writing. Such requests will be considered by the Company in consultation with the Union.
8.02	(a) Overtime is defined as work performed in excess of the employee’s normal work hours. Overtime work as defined herein shall be paid at time and one half (as in 8.03 and 8,04 below) except that where an employee works in excess of ten (10) hours
Page 10
overtime'in the week, the excess will be paid at double time (2X) for work performed. However, the regular hours worked from Monday to Friday must amount to forty (40) in accordance with Article 8.02 (b).
(b)	In those cases where the employee does not complete his regularly scheduled shift at the request of the Employer, or due to a verifiable personal emergency, which requires the employee to leave the plant, overtime hours worked in accordance with Article
8.02	(a) will be paid at overtime rates.
(c)	All overtime performed on a Sunday will be paid at double time (2X) for work performed.
(d)	Overtime shall be worked on a seniority by job function basis, understanding that employees performing modified work (light duty) or employees in training are not generally eligible for overtime work.
(e)	When overtime is needed on a certain job function employees on that job function will be notified as soon as reasonably possible and employees who wish to work overtime must sign an availability list. The most senior person(s) on the list will be assigned the overtime available.
(f)	To support production needs, in cases of absences, machine delay, etc., an employee on the same shift who is available and trained on the affected job function will be transferred to fill the need. When this is not possible, persons on the next shift within the same job function will be called in order of seniority to fill the need.
8.03	Any employee working overtime in a higher wage class, will be paid overtime at the base rate plus bonus (if bonus earned in the applicable production week) for the hours worked in the higher wage class
8.04	Hours worked in excess of the regularly scheduled work hours in
Page 11
each day will be compensated at the rate of time and one half of the job’s base rate plus bonus (if bonus earned in the applicable production week).
8.05	All employees shall have paid ten (10) minute rest periods in the forenoon and afternoon.
8.06	The Employer commits to maintaining a current list of employees ’ addresses and telephone numbers and the Union acknowledges employees’ responsibility to adequately inform the Company of any changes to their addresses and telephone numbers. The Employer will make reasonable attempts to notify affected employees not to return to work. If an employee reports to work on schedule without having received prior notice from the Employer not to report, such employee shall be entitled to four (4) hours of work or the equivalent in wages (at the base plus bonus if bonus earned in the applicable production week). The provisions of this Article shall not apply if no work is available as a result of fire, flood, power failure, or other causes beyond the control of the Employer. It is understood that mechanical failure is within the control of the Employer.
8.07	All overtime shall be on a voluntary basis
8.08	All employees will be paid a shift premium of $0.35/hour for hours worked on the afternoon shift.
ARTICLE IX - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	A grievance shall consist only of a dispute regarding interpretation, application or alleged violation of the Collective Agreement. In a sincere effort by both parties to resolve the dispute, a grievance shall be handled in accordance with the following procedure:
9.02	STEP#1: The grievance shall be discussed within five (5) working days of the occurrence of the situation on which the grievance is
Page 12
based, by the Union Steward, the employee involved, and his or her immediate supervisor, in an attempt to settle the matter. The supervisor involved shall give a written answer with respect to the grievance within (1) working day following the discussion. If the answer given does not settle the issue, then the employee and the Union Steward may proceed with the next grievance step.
9.03	STEP #2: Within three (3) working days following receipt of the answer provided by Step 1, the Union Representatives and the aggrieved employee shall present the grievance in writing to the Production Manager and/or her designate in an attempt to settle the matter. If settlement is reached, the matter shall be considered closed. If the grievance is not settled, a written and signed decision setting forth management’s position and the reasons therefore, shall he submitted by management to the Union President, the Union Steward and the aggrieved employee within two (2) working days following said meeting. If the grievance is not settled at this step, then:
9.04	STEP #3: Within seven (7) working days following receipt of management’s written decision, the Regional Representative, along with the Local Representatives and the aggrieved employee shall meet with the Employer and attempt to settle the grievance. Following such meeting the Employer shall give their written response to the Union within two (2) working days. In the event that any complaints, claims, disputes or differences are not settled in accordance with the foregoing steps, then same may be submitted to arbitration in accordance with Article X herein. Upon request, extensions of the time limits at any step of the grievance and/or arbitration procedure may be granted by either party, for reasonable cause.
9.05	The Employer and the Union may mutually agree to have a Grievance Mediator assist in resolving the grievance prior to Arbitration.
Page 13
ARTICLE X • ARBITRATION
10.01	Only those grievances or disputes between the Employer and the employee and/or the Union, which involve an alleged violation of a provision of this Agreement, or an allegation that it has not been properly interpreted or applied, may be carried beyond the grievance procedure into arbitration under this Section. Either the Union or the Employer may request arbitration of disagreements or disputes, in writing, at any time during a period of fourteen (14) calendar days following the final meeting as described in Article IX, paragraph 4. Upon such timely request, the arbitration shall proceed as follows: The Employer and the Union shall have the option to select either a neutral sole Arbitrator or by each party selecting their own nominee for an Arbitration Board, if the two nominees cannot agree upon an Arbitrator, the appointment shall be made by the Ministry of Labour for Ontario upon the request of either party.
The sole Arbitrator or Arbitration Board thus chosen shall decide the matter and the decision and award shall be final and binding upon all the parties. The Arbitrator or Arbitration Board shall have no authority to alter, add to or ignore the terms negotiated into this Agreement. The Arbitrator or Arbitration Board shall be limited to finding the facts and to apply them to the terms of this Agreement and shall not add meaning or intent to this Agreement which were not negotiated. All other matters are to be resolved by negotiations between the parties. Each party shall bear its own cost plus one-half of the cost of the neutral Arbitrator or Chairman of the Arbitration Board. In the event that an Arbitration Board is selected as the method employed to settle the grievance, each party shall appoint a nominee to the Board. The nominees shall select a mutually agreeable Chairperson of the Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE XI - DISCHARGE
11.01	No employee covered by this Agreement shall be discharged or disciplined without just cause. The Employer shall, however,
Page 14
continue to have the right and authority to discipline and discharge employees for just cause. Grievance or disputes, alleging improper disciplinary action or discharge, must be filed with the Employer, in writing, within five (5) working days after receipt by the Union of notice concerning said disciplinary action or discharge. Failure to file a timely grievance will cause the employee to forfeit any right or claim to reinstatement or back pay. Failure by the Employer to answer a discharge grievance within two (2) days of the third step meeting will result in a reinstatement of the employee. If the grievance or complaint concerning disciplinary action or discharge cannot be adjusted by mutual agreement between representatives of the Union and the Employer as provided in Article IX, paragraph 4, said grievance or complaint shall be processed in accordance with Article X herein.
11.02	Grievance or disputes alleging improper discharge will begin at Step # 3, of the Grievance Procedure.
11.03	The Employer may terminate an employee during the probationary period for any reason it considers sufficient, including without limiting the generality of the preceding, work deemed inadequate by the Employer or inability to get along with Management or fellow Employees.
11.04	Except for serious violations such as theft, drinking of or under the influence of alcoholic beverages or drugs, fighting, falsifying Company records and violations of Health and Safety rules and regulations, employees may be given discipline under a progressive process. Progressive discipline shall not be active in an employee’s file for more than eighteen (18) months.
ARTICLE XII - ABSENCES
12.01	An employee who is absent from work for two (2) consecutive working days, without valid reason, will be terminated from employment. Therefore, in case of absence, a valid reason must be promptly given to the Employer by messenger or telephone.
Page 15
Employees who are requested to have a company authorized Doctor form completed will be compensated io a maximum of ten dollars ($10.00) per form, to a maximum of sixty dollars ($60.00) in a year.
12.02	For purposes of this Article, disability will be taken to mean illnesses or accidents which are neither governed by, nor compensated by provisions of Ontario Law. Upon written request, leaves of absence for reasons of disability shall be granted to an employee who has completed sixty (60) days of service and all benefits will continue to accrue including seniority.
The Employer will hold open for six (6) months, a job left vacant by virtue of its incumbent employee being on approved disability leave of absence. In the case of absences over six (^months and up to one (1) year, the Employer will reinstate the employee in the same or similar job. Extensions may be granted at the Employer’s discretion.
Employees on extended leave may be required to provide the Employer with up to one (1) week notice of their expected return to work following a disability leave of absence.
12.03	in the event of the death of a spouse (which includes common-law or same-sex spouse), child, parent, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-inlaw, grandparents or grandchildren of an employee, or grandparent of a spouse, the Employer will grant three (3) working days leave of absence with pay.
Effective March 9th, 1999:
In the event of the death of a spouse (which includes common-law
or same-sex spouse), child, parent, brother or sister of an
employee, the Employer will grant five (5) working days leave of absence with pay.
in the event of the death of a mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-
Page 16
in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandparents or grandchildren of an employee, or grandparent of a spouse, the Employer will grant three (3) working days leave of absence with
pay-
12.04	The Employer will consider written requests for unpaid leaves of absence (for personal or compassionate reasons) and such requests may be granted giving consideration to production requirements (such as production demand, headcount, absenteeism, vacation, etc.).
In order to better inform employees of the decision making process, the Employer shall post a vacation schedule and any other trend information on Company bulletin boards.
12.05	Leaves of absence without loss of seniority shall be granted to a reasonable number of employees selected as delegates to Union conventions, conferences and other similar functions. Such leaves shall not exceed two (2) weeks unless otherwise mutually agreed upon and such employees shall be reinstated to their respective previous jobs upon their return to work.
12.06	The Employer shall pay an employee who is required for jury service, for each day of service, at the employee’s base rate plus bonus (if bonus earned in the applicable production week) and the employee will forward their payment for jury service to the Employer. In order to qualify for this payment, the employee must present proof of service.
12.07	a) Any employee who leaves the employ of the Employer and returns, shall gain past service upon serving an equal amount of time of continuous service as the length of the leave. However, service shall not accumulate nor be counted into the employee’s total service for the time spent away from the Company.
b) Any employee who transfers from the bargaining unit to a position outside the bargaining unit, and then returns to the bargaining unit, shall be credited with full seniority back to their
Page 17
date of hire once such employee has served an equal amount of time in the bargaining unit as the time they spent outside the bargaining unit. Seniority shall not accumulate nor be counted into the employee’s total seniority for the time spent outside the bargaining unit. It is understood that during the time outside the bargaining unit such employees will not pay union dues nor be entitled to any seniority provisions under the collective agreement and shall be excluded from attending any union functions including voting privileges.
Note: The above clause will apply to all future situations of this nature. However, for those employees who experienced a similar situation before this agreement, such employees will have their seniority reinstated on March 8th, 2000 under the terms of paragraph 12.07 (b) above.
ARTICLE XIII ■ NON-DISCRIMINATION
13.01	The parties hereto agree that the provisions of this Agreement shall be applied to all employees or applicants for employment without regard to race, colour, religious creed, national origin, handicap or sex.
ARTICLE XIV - SENIORITY/ LAY-OFF/ RECALL
14.01	The Employer will recognize individual seniority after the successful completion of the probationary period.
14.02
a)	In the event of a temporary layoff of two (2) weeks or less, such layoff will be governed by plant seniority within primary job functions. Employees on temporary layoff shall be recalled to their job within the primary job function, on a reverse seniority basis when work becomes available.
b)	In the event of a temporary layoff of more than two (2) weeks
Page 18
but less than fourteen (14) weeks, such layoff will be governed by plant seniority within a job that is the employee’s primary job or the employee has achieved trained status. Such affected employees will be given two (2) working days advance notice.
14.03	In the event of a permanent layoff of more than thirteen (13) weeks, such layoff will be governed by plant seniority within a job that is the employee’s primary job, the employee has achieved trained status, or the employee has the ability to learn within two weeks. All affected employees will be given one (1) week advance notice of such layoff. All employees shall be recalled to their primary job, on a reverse seniority basis when work becomes available.
14.04	All employees, who have completed their probationary period, shall retain recall rights of up to one (1) year from the date of layoff.
14.05	Where possible, permanent shift assignments will be offered to qualified employees based on plant seniority within job functions.
14.06	In the event of elimination or indefinite layoffs on the afternoon shift, employees affected will have the right to exercise their plant seniority on the day shift within their respective job functions.
ARTICLE XV • SEPARABILITY
15.01	Should any part of this agreement be rendered or declared illegal by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction or by the decision of any authorized government agency, such invalidation or such part or provisions shall not invalidate the remainder thereof.
ARTICLE XVI - WAGES
16.01	Employees in Group classifications hereto set out in the Wage
Page 19
Schedule shall be paid the appropriate hourly rate for the Group classification, effective as of the date set forth in the Wage Schedule.
16.02	The Employer shall establish standards of production and quality for jobs and further establish thresholds of cost, production and quality for collective groups of jobs and/or team(s) of individuals.
The Employer will inform the Union of any new standard or change in standard before its implementation. The Employee shall have the right following, thirty (30) days from the implementation of any new standard to request a review of such standard. Such review shall consist first of a recheck of the standard in question by the Employer’s engineer, if then requested by the Employee or the Union, a Union engineer may be called upon to examine the standard in question. The Company shall be notified by the Union of the qualified engineer’s name. The Union engineer shall be accompanied by the Company’s engineer while he/she studies the standard in question and all necessary information will be made available.
16.03	An employee who is required to temporarily fill ajob which carries a higher rate of pay shall receive the higher rate of pay for the work performed. If an employee is required to temporarily fill ajob which carries a lower rate of pay, his or her base rate will not change.
16.04	Quotas as set. are the minimum requirements for ajob. They are to be readily attainable so as to ensure that bonus payments may be made for the effort expended.
ARTICLE XVII - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
17.01	It is understood that the Employer shall make every reasonable effort to reassign those employees displaced as a result of technological change by offering the displaced employee a choice between a vacancy in the same job class on the same shift or the
Page 20
job held by the most junior employee in their own job class on the same shift or a lower job class on the same shift. The junior employee displaced as a result will be placed in a vacant position and if there is no vacancy, then Article XIV (Seniority) will apply.
17.02	The Employer will make a reasonable effort to inform the Union and the affected employees of planned technological changes at the earliest possible date and the potential impact on the affected jobs or employees.
17.03	Insofar as practicable, when ajob is eliminated and one is created in its place, the employee(s) on the affected job(s) will have right of first refusal on the newly created job.
ARTICLE XVIII - JOB POSTING
18.01	When additional jobs are created or when a job becomes vacant, the Employer shall post such jobs for forty-eight (48) hours. The Union will be given a copy of suchjob postings and all applicants.
18.02	Job applicants must have been employed with the Employer for at least six (6) months. The senior employee applying within the time a job is posted, who possesses sufficient skill and ability to perform the work to be done shall be given the job.
18.03	The employee shall be granted a period of two (2) working days for group 1 jobs, three (3) working days for group 2 jobs and five (5) working days for group 3 jobs, from which they shall have the opportunity to transfer back to their original job. Once the employee accepts the job they will be placed on a training program. Should the employee fail to demonstrate satisfactory progress, then the employee would be subject to placement in an available position regardless of pay group. If there are no available positions, then the employee is subject to layoff as governed in Section 14,03. Once placed, the employee remains subject to Section 18.04 from the date of the most recent placement.
Page 21
18.04	A successful applicant cannot apply for another posted job until six (6) months from the date of transfer.
18.05	Jobs which become vacant as a result of a transfer pursuant to Section 18,01, will not necessarily be filled by subsequent job postings. Consideration will be given to those employees with no job assignment as well as such things as production needs and line-balancing etc.
18.06	Every reasonable effort will be made to transfer the successful candidate within two (2) weeks from the date the employee accepts the position. The Employer will make every effort to inform the employee of the reasons for any delay and will attempt to rectify the problem as promptly as possible.
ARTICLE XIX -PERFORMANCE EXPECTATIONS
19.01 Employees shall become multi-skilled, involved in non-sewing activities, and work co-operatively within a team environment, as assigned.
Page 22
\S 0
ARTICLE XXI ■ TERM OF AGREEMENT
20.01 This Agreement shall become effective March 9, 1998, and shall remain in full force and effect until MarciT9, 2001. The "said Agreement shall be'automatically renewed from year to year
thereafter, unless, on or before January 9, 2001, or January 9th of any year thereafter, notice in writing by certified mail is given by either the Employer or the Union to the other of its intention to terminate or modify this Agreement. In the event that notice to terminate is given, this Agreement shall he terminated upon the ensuing March 9th, but shall continue in effect until such time as an agreement is reached between the parties or either party gives written notice to the other that it desires to terminate this Agreement in which event this Agreement shall be terminated on said date.
For the Employer:	For the Union:
Page 23
JOB GROUPS
GROUP 1
Attach Facing 7 & 8 Attach Riser Labels Attach Watch Pocket Auto Hem / Scallop Auto Riser Band End Bartack - seat Bartack - fronts Bartack - side
Serge Left Fly Serge Pockets Sew left Fly Snaps
Stay Notch Front Pockets Tack Loop
Topstitch Inseam P. P. Turn Pants /Pack Pants Zipper Station
Button & Buttonhole
Button Fly
Buttonhole Left Fly
Clip Pockets
Close Pocket L8
Cutting Repair
Gerber Teke-cff
Hang Front Pocket
Hem Hip Pocket
Hem Left Fly Edge
Hem Watch Pocket
Label Printing - Care labels
Label Printing - Leather labels
Label Waistband
Make Loops/Fuse
Manual Scallop
Match Fronts to Backs
Material Handler
Packing
Pocket Setters
Riser Label
Rivets
Seam Bust
Serge Attach Facing
Serge Backs
Serge Fronts
Page 24
■TOR nwoiTPS (cont’d)
GROUP 2
Cord Outseam
Forklift Receiving
Forklift Shipping
Pocket Bag L7
Serge Right Fly
Set Front Pockets / Form Fly
Spreader
Two Needle Front Pocket / Form Fly GROUP3
Cutting Edge Operator Fell inseam / Outseam Gerber Operator Hem Legs Join Crotch Manual Riser Seatseam Sideseam Waistband
NOTE: FOR THOSE EMPLOYEES WHOSE PRIMARY JOB IS BARTACK OR CORD OUTSEAM THEIR WAGES WILL BE “RED-CIRCLED“ UNTIL THEIR NEW WAGES HAVE “CAUGHT UP’
Page 25
WAGE SCHEDULE
MARCH
	9/98
Group 1 Potential	$09.81
Bonus	_U2
Total	$10.94
Group 2 Potential	$10.28
Bonus	1.18
Total	$11.46
Group 3 Potential	$10.75
Bonus	_L24
Total	$11.99
New Hires	
MARCH
9/99
$10.06
1.18
$11.24
$10.53
1.23
$11.76
$11.00
1.29
$12.29
$7.50 per hour for the
MARCH
9/2000
$10.36
1.18
$11.54
$10.83
1.23
$12.06
$11.30
1.29
$12.59
80 hours of work
Page 26
Letter of Intent
Individual Performance Bonus
The Employer agrees to sponsor a joint committee to review the possibility of establishing an individual performance bonus that would encourage improvement in sewing and non-sewing performance.
Utter of Intent
The Toyota Sewing System
Duration:
The Toyota Sewing System will be tested over a period of twenty-four (24) months unless extended by mutual agreement. The Union will be informed and involved in any changes that affect employees throughout the period of the test. In the event that there is a decision to adopt the Toyota Sewing System the Company and the Union agree to re-negotiate language pertaining to T.S.S. The following agreements have been made for the period of the test:
Selection & Placement:
•	Start up cells will be selected from teams of volunteers, by a joint committee that will consider: impact to the floor, jobs known, quality, efficiency and attendance.
Replacement operators will be selected by the cell in conjunction with the Supervisor with prior approval from the Production Manag In the event that it is decided to discontinue the test, those employees who volunteered to participate will return to their primary job.
Compensation:
•	All operators in an assemble cell will be paid at a Group 3 Rate, with the Group 3 bonus distributed:
•	25% plant attainment
•	25% cell attainment
•	25% plant quality
•	25% cell quality
Page 27
.............................
Special training bonuses will be given when the following
efficiency thresholds are met:
•	50% - $25
•	75% - $40
•	88% - $55
•	100% ■ $75
T.S.S, Operators who are eligible for overtime in their primary job in the P.B.S, line will be paid at time and one half of their primary job rate
Letter of Intent Return to Work
The employer agrees to sponsor a joint committee to review the current Return to Work process. This committee will work to improve the process to ensure fair and consistent treatment of employees.
Page 28