[ SOURCE		
EFT. TERM.	°>z	) oil zpi:
No. Of EViPt.O Y r E S		\ TO
D'lMPlOYIS

COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
TORONTO DRESS & SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS’ GUILD INC.
and
INTERNATIONAL LADIES GARMENT WORKERS’ UNION
Locals 14-83-92
AUGUST 1,1989 - JULY 31,1992
KNOW YOUR CONTRACT
KNOW YOUR STEWARDS ATTEND YOUR UNION MEETINGS
PREAMBLE TO AGREEMENT
“AND WHEREAS THE SAID LOCAL 72 AND LOCAL 199 and 192 OF THE SAID INTERNATIONAL LADIES GARMENT WORKERS’ UNION HAVE ENTERED INTO A MERGER TO THE SAID THREE LOCAL UNIONS TO BE KNOWN AS LOCALS 14-83-92;
AND WHEREAS THE GUILD HAS RECOGNIZED THE SAID MERGER AS A PROPER AND LAWFUL ARRANGEMENT;
AND WHEREAS THE SAID LOCAL UNIONS 14, 83 AND 92 HAVE FORMED A DISTRICT COUNCIL, CLOAKMAKERS DRESS AND SPORTSWEAR INDUSTRY, OF THE INTERNATIONAL LADIES GARMENT WORKERS’ UNION, WHICH DISTRICT COUNCIL HAS BEEN RECOGNIZED BY THE GUILD AS A PROPER AND LAWFUL ARRANGEMENT;
AND WHEREAS THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE AGREED THAT THIS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT HAS COMPRISED ONE CONTRACT COVERING THE DRESS AND SPORTSWEAR DIVISIONS OF THE ONTARIO DISTRICT COUNCIL CLOAKMAKERS DRESS AND SPORTSWEAR, INTERNATIONAL LADIES GARMENT WORKERS’ UNION. ”
INDEX
PAGE
AGENCY ARBITRATION AUTOMATION BEREAVEMENT PAY.
CHECK-OFF
CONDITIONS OF PAYMENT.
CONTRACTINGOUT DEFINITION OF INDUSTRY .
DIVISION OF WORK, . . .
DURATION	.	__
EDUCATION FUND .
HEALTH&SAFETY COMMITTEE.
HEALTH AND WELFARE FUNDBENEFITS
HOLIDAYS ..........................
HOLIDAY PAY - AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS.
HOURS OF WORK......................... 8
INDIVIDUAL CONTRACTS..................21
INTERPRETATION ...................... 34
LEAVE OF ABSENCE..................... 32
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS..................... 5
MINIMI MSI OR ....................... 12
NO DISCRIMINATION..................... 5
NO STRIKE OR LOCK-OUT................ 23
NO WORK TO STRUCK SHOP............... 20
NOHCE OF TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT ...	7
ONE SYSTEM OF WORK................... 15
OVERTIME ............................. 9
PAYROLL RECORDS ..................... 32
PERFORMANCE........................... 2
PICKET LINES......................... 21
PRICE LISTS ......................... 17
PRICE SETTLEMENTS.................... 16
PROfflBIHON OF HOMEWORK.............. 25
RECOGNIHON OF GUILD.................. 22
REST PERIOD .......................... 8
RETIREMENT FUND...................... 29
SAMPLES, DUPLICATES AND PREPARATORY WORK ....	9
SENIORITY............................. 6
SERVICE SUPPLEMENT................... 29
SHOP CHAIRMAN AND PRICE-COMMITTEE ... 15
IRIAI.PERIOD ......................... 7
UNION LABEL ......................... 24
UNIONS HOP............................ 3
VACAHON WITH PAY FUND................ 28
VACATION WITH PAY-THIRD WEEK......... 28
VISITS TO EMPLOYEES ................. 21
WAIHNG FOR WORK .......................9
WAGE INCREASES,.......................11
CLAUSE
L
33 12
27
5
43
37
3 9
47
45 20
38
25
26
13
30
48
46
6 19
7
34
28 10 21
17
44 2
29
24
23
36
32
14 42
16
8 41 22 11
35
4
39
40
31
15
18
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO THIS 14th DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 1989
BETWEEN: THE TORONTO DRESS AND SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS’ GUILD, INC., hereinafter called the “GUILD” for and on behalf of itself and all persons, firms or corporations who are at present or may hereafter become members of the said Guild; and each of such members being hereinafter referred to as the “EMPLOYERS”
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	ONTARIO CLOAKMAKERS DRESS AND
SPORTSWEAR DISTRICT COUNCIL, OF THE INTERNATIONAL LADIES GARMENTS WORKERS’ UNION AND LOCALS 14, 83 AND 92 both the International Union and the Local District Council being hereinafter referred to as the “UNION”, for and on behalf of themselves and all persons who are at present or may hereinafter become members of the said “UNION”
OF THE SECOND PART
WHEREAS the parties hereto represent respectively employers and employees engaged primarily in the manufacture or production of women’s clothing as defined in Clause 3, in the Province of Ontario, hereinafter referred to as the “INDUSTRY”.
AND WHEREAS the Parties hereto have agreed that the above mentioned Collective Agreement shall, subject to the amendments and covenants hereinafter contained, be extended for a further period of three (3) years, from the said FIRST DAY OF AUGUST, 1989, to the 31ST DAY OF JULY, 1992.
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the Parties hereto for the purpose of facilitating collective bargaining and in order mutually to assist each other in maintaining harmonious industrial relations and stability of standards within the Industry, covenant, promise and agree with one and other as follows:
1.	AGENCY;
The Employers recognize and acknowledge the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all factory employees of Employers (listed as Appendix A, Page 46) engaged in the production of garments, save and except foremen and designers and the Union recognizes and acknowledges the Guild as the exclusive bargaining agent and representative of the said Employers.
2.	PERFORMANCE;
The respective parties hereto covenant and agree to observe the terms and conditions of the Agreement and to perform same in good faith and by the due exercise of all powers which they lawfully possess to secure and enforce the due performance of the provisions thereof.
3.	DEFINITION OF INDUSTRY;
The Industry consists of manufacturers and contractors primarily producing women’s apparel, which in general terms, are dresses and sportswear.
2
4.	UNION SHOP:
(a)	No Employer shall employ or retain in his employ j any person to perform any of the following operations in,/ connection with the manufacture or production of clothing for | females, namely; cutting, operating, pressing, finishing, separating, samplemaking, general hands, examining, bushelling, special machine work and draping, which has heretofore been under the jurisdiction of the Union, unless such person satisfies all of the following conditions:
1.	is certified by the Union to be a member in good standing with the Union;
2.	the Union dues and assessments are not in arrears more than eight weeks;
3.	who presents to the Employer a working card properly signed by the Union, directing him to the place of business of such Employer.
(b)	The Union agrees that it will to the best of its ability furnish any Employer with such workers as such Employer may require. In the event that the Union is unable to supply such workers to such Employer within forty-eight (48) hours from the time it receives a request therefore, then such Employer may employ persons not members of the Union, provided that:
1.	if such persons are skilled employees, they shall become members of the Union, subject to the trial period hereinafter set out;
2.	if such persons are unskilled employees, they
shall become members of the Union within one month of their employment.
(c)	All Union Employers, members or non-members of the Toronto Dress and Sportswear Manufacturers’ Guild,
Inc., are obliged to maintain a Union Shop in their own establishment and in any establishment with which they are directly or indirectly connected or with which they may become associated or have any relationship either as a partner, shareholder, director or otherwise, the whole in connection
3
with the industrial jurisdiction as covered by the present Agreement, or in any industrial field or jurisdiction in which the I.L.G.W.U. is operating or has employer-employee agreements or relationships.
(d)	It is the intention of this Agreement that where one or more persons are engaged in manufacturing products falling under the industrial jurisdiction of this Agreement or in any industrial field in which the I.L.G.W.U. is operating or has Employer or employee agreements or relationships, such person or persons, whether individuals, partnerships or corporations, shall be obliged to maintain a Union Shop in all establishments wherein they or any of them have an interest, and the principle of a Union Shop shall be and remain paramount and held inviolate in respect to all members of the Association and signatories hereto, and all indirect violations of this principle are prohibited.
(e)	Where the Employer is a corporation, the provisions of the present section shall apply to the shareholders of such corporation.
(f)	It is agreed that this clause also be incorporated in Collective Labour Agreements in other industries under the jurisdiction of the I.L.G.W.U.
5.	CHECK-OFF
Each Employer shall deduct from the wages of each employee within the scope of this Agreement, who has completed his probationary period, monthly dues from each 1// employee. The amount of dues and assessments may, from /1 time to time, be changed and due from each employee to the l Union. Each employer shall transmit such monies to the Union Office monthly, not later than the tenth day of the relevant month. The Union shall supply the necessary forms to each Employer to facilitate the said check-off.
4
6.	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer, suspend, discipline or discharge for just cause any employee, subject to the right of the employee to submit a grievance;
(c)	generally manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged, and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to increase or decrease the working force, to deterine the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacturing, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, process of manufacturing, the engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced, and the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations;
(d)	make, alter and enforce reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by employees.
All matters concerning the operations of the Company’s business not specifically limited by any provisions herein, shall be reserved to the Management and be its sole responsibility.
It is hereby agreed that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with and subject to the provisions of the Agreement.
7.	NO DISCRIMINATION:
The parties agree that there shall be no discrimination restrictions or coercion exercised or practiced with respect to membership or activity in the Union.
5
The parties acknowledge the applicability of the Ontario Human Rights Code to the workplace. The Code | prohibits discrimination based on race, ancestry, place of origin, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, creed, sex, age, ,'y record of offences, marital status, family status or handicap, all as more particularly set out therein.
8.	SENIORITY:
Seniority is the length of uninterrupted company service an employee has with the company and shall be settled for those persons presently in the employ by a list delivered to the Union with employee’s name and start date set out thereon. For new employees, it shall be the date of last hire.
There shall be a seniority list posted, and updated every six months.
It is the responsibility of the employees at all times to keep the company informed as to his/her home address and telephone number.
Seniority rights and employee benefits will cease and the employee shall be deemed terminated for any of the following reasons:
(a)	if the employee voluntarily quits or accepts severance;
(b)	if the employee is discharged for just cause;
(c)	if the employee is absent from work for five (5) working days without notifying the Company, unless a reason satisfactory for the Company is supplied;
(d)	if an employee has been on layoff and fails to return within five (5) working days after he has been notified to do so by registered mail by the post office, to his last known address with the Company, unless a reason satisfactory to the company is supplied;
6
(e)	if any employee is on verifiable illness (approved by the Union doctor) for twelve (12) consecutive months;
(t) if any employee is on layoff for six (6) consecutive months.
In all case of layoffs expected to last more than two weeks, or recall in the case of layoffs, seniority shall goverp within classification.
9.	DIVISION OF WORK:
Whenever sufficient work is not available for all employees in a shop, all available work shall be so divided among all employees properly engaged in the work who are competent to do the work so as to assure as nearly as possible an equal division of work.	^
When the above is not feasible the seniority provisions ‘ shall govern.
10.	NOTICE OF TERMINATION OF
EMPLOYMENT;____________________
In the event of an employee leaving or desiring to leave his place of employment, he shall give his Employer at least one week’s notice of his intention; and in the event of an Employer desiring to dispense with the services of an employee, such Employer shall give notice as outlined by the Employment Standards Act.
11.	TRIAL PERIOD:	/ a'
(a)	Any skilled worker furnished by the Union under the provision of Clause 4 aforesaid shall be accepted by the Employer and shall be given a reasonable trial for a period of two working weeks to ascertain whether he is qualified for regular employment with such Employer. The trial period may be extended beyond the period of two working weeks in exceptional circumstances by mutual consent of the parties
7
hereto. After the expiration of the trial period, the employee shall be deemed a regular employee of the Employer and shall be entitled to all rights, privileges and benefits and shall be subjeet to all conditions and obligations provided for by this agreement.
(b)	Both parties further recognize that the provision respecting working cards shall be enforced; the issuance of such working cards shall not be unreasonably withheld.
12.	AUTOMATION:
It is agreed in principle that no worker, member of the Union, during a, framing period shall be displaced or sulTci loss of job or suffer loss of regular earnings as a consequence of changes in methods of production or equipment.^, J
13.	HOURS OF WORK:	/
(a) The regular working week shall consist of thirty-five (35) hours of work made up of seven hours of work each day from Monday to Friday, both inclusive, with one hour for noon recess as follows:
1.	For those commencing work at 8:00 a.m.
Monday through Friday, beginning at 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon and front 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
For those commencing work at 8:30 a.m.
Monday through Friday, beginning at 8:30 a.m. to 12:00 noon and from 1:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
(b)	One Flour shall be allotted for the lunch recess.
(12:00 noon to 1:00 p.m.).
(c)	Each Employer shall have a time clock in good
working order and shall keep an accurate record of time worked by his employees.
14.	REST PERIOD:
(a) The Union and the Guild agrees that where rest periods or coffee breaks are presently the practice, that this
8
practice shall not be disturbed. It is also agreed that where rest period or coffee breaks are not the practice, then the Employer will be required to establish a ten (10) minute rest period either in the morning or during the course of the afternoon. Where abuse of the rest period(s) is experienced the Employer shall have the right to call upon the Union and the Guild with the purpose of determining whether or not to continue rest periods.
(b) It is agreed that afternoon breaks of ten (10) minutes be permitted when overtime is being worked. In shops where there are no afternoon breaks, a ten (10) minute break will be given at the end of the day before starting overtime. Where an afternoon break is already the practice, then no overtime break will be necessary.
No Employer shall compel any employee to wait in the factory when there is no work available. No worker shall be entitled to any pay for time when he or she is not working. An employee required to report for work shall be supplied with a least four (4) hours work or compensation at average hourly earnings.
16.	SAMPLES, DUPLICATES AND	O' 1
PREPARATORY WORK:	v
(a)	No employee shall refuse to work on samples, specials, duplicates or preparatory work when so requested.
(b)	All specials, duplicates and preparatory work shall be divided as equally as possible amongst all employees, and prices fixed, therefore shall equal the regular wages of such employees.
(a)	The following four (4) rules shall govern overtime work:
15.	WAITING FOR WORK:
17.	OVERTIME:
9
I.
2
3
No overtime shall he worked in any craft 01 operation as long as members Of the Union engaged in such craft or operation are unemployed.
No overtime shall be worked in any particular craft in any factory as long as there are facilities or space available for additional employees, and as long as the Union is able to Supply such employees as required by the Employer.
The overtime rate of pay shall be one and one half times the regular rate and shall be computed, in the case of a time-worker, on the basis of the actual pay per hour earned by such worker; and in the case of piece-workers, on the basis of the total number of hours worked by him in the week in which he worked overtime, divided into his pay for such week; and shall be paid to a worker who worked more than the regular working hours in any working day, provided that a worker shall be entitled to payment of overtime rates where he has failed to work such regular working hours, in any working day by reason of:
(a)	His observance of a religious holiday or rite.
(b)	Illness.
(c)	some other unavoidable circumstance beyond his or her control or absence with employer’s consent.
(d)	or failure of the Employer to provide a regular working day’s employment during regular working hours on the day on which the worker is reuired to work overtime.
(e)	No permanent employee in the factory shall
work overtime in a shop or factory other than in that of his regular Employer and his doing so shall be considered a good and sufficient reason for his inmediate discharge by his regular Employer.
10
4. Employees shall be given at least twenty-four (24) hours notice that they will be required to work overtime and no employee shall arbitrarily refuse to work overtime when requested to do so. Overtime not to exceed eight (8) hours in any one week or two (2) hours in any one day may be worked in the first four (4) days of any week, namely; Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, by any employee after the end of his regular working day, subject to the aforesaid rules.
18.	WAGE INCREASES:
1.	Timeworkers
A 50C increase on hourly wages commencing AUGUST 1, 1989;
45C payable AUGUST 1, 1990, compounded; 45C payable AUGUST 1, 1991, compounded;
2
Craft
Operators
Finishers
Presser*
Craft
Operators
Finishers
Pressers
Piece Workers
All piece workers shall be paid in addition to their piece work earnings the following bonuses effective as and from the following dates.
BONUS SCHEDULE DRESSES
Present
830
872
822
Aug. I, 1989 867 911 859
Aug. 1, 1990 906 951 897
Aug. 1, 1991 946 993 937
BONUS SCHEDULE SPORTSWEAR
Present Aug. 1, 1989 Aug. 1, 1990 773	808	844
800	836	873
728	761	795
Aug. I, 1991 882 912 831
3.	Cola Indexation of Salaries
On August 1st, 1990 and August 1st, 1991, all employees shall receive over and above
11
contractual increases as herein listed a cost of living increase in the amount of the excess of the rise in the Consumers Price Index as published by Statistics Canada above 8 % during the twelve (12) months period June 1st to May 3 1st with a maximum of three (3) %.
Such increases shall be added and granted to all employees at the same time as the contractual wage increases listed herein.
19.	MINIMUMS FOR;
1.	SKILLED
2.	UNSKILLED (Apprentices)
(a)	It is agreed that there will be one Minimum Wage Seale between the Dress Industry and the Sportswear Industry which will be as follows:
MINIMUM WA<;i<; SCALK — SKILLED
			Aug. 1, 1989	Aug. 1, 1990	Aug. 1, 1991
Operators			735	780	825
Sample Maker			735	780	825
Draper			735	780	825
Finisher			735	780	825
Pressers			896	941	986
Prossers Assistant			705	750	795
Examiner			675	720	765
General Hand	h	4	640	685	730
Skilled Cutter	Vs		1123	1168	1213
Semi-Skilled Cutler		rv\	896	941	986
Spec. Mach. Operator			695	740	785
Separator			675	720	765
12
Craft
Apprenticeship
Period
Aug./89 per Hr
Aug./90 per Hr
Aug./91 per Hr
Operators
Drapers
Finishers
Special
Machine
Operators
General
Hands
Separators
Cutlers (from Learners to SemiSkilled)
Under Pressers or Assist.
Examiners
Bushellers
First two months Second two months Third two months Fourth two months Fifth two months Eleventh month
Twelfth month______
First month Second two months Third two months Sixth month Twelfth month First month Second two months Third two months Sixth month
‘Twelfth month_____
First two months Second two months Fifth month
One ear____________
First month Second two months Third two months Sixth month Twelfth month First three months Second three months Third three months Fourth three months Fifth three months Sixth three months First three months Second three months Seventh month Twelfth month First two months Second two months Fifth month Sixth month
550
565
590
615
640
665
735
565
590
615
640
735
565
590
615
640
695
550
565
590
675
550
565
590
615
665
625
650
675
700
725
896
575
600
625
705
565
590
615
675
595
610
635
660
685
710
775
610
635
660
685
780
610
635
660
685
740
595
610
635
720
595
610
635
660
710
670
695
720
745
770
925
620
645
670
750
610
635
660
720
640
655
680
705
730
755
800
655
680
705
730
825
655
680
705
730
785
640
655
680
765
640
655
680
705
755
715
740
765
790
815
950
665
690
715
795
655
680
705
765
13
(b)	A schedule of progressive rates for apprentices is also agreed to. The Union shall have the right to request that the Minimum Wage Scale may be adjusted during the life of this Agreement.
(c)	It is agreed that the Minimum Rates shall be at ten percent (10%) above Government Minimum. Notwithstanding anything herein contained, all minimum rates of wages payable under this Agreement shall be at least ten percent (10%) higher than those provided by the Employment Standards Act.
(d)	These minimums apply to the skilled and unskilled crafts or trades. They are inclusive of all costs of living bonus and increases.
20.	HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE:
(a)	The Employer shall maintain a clean, safe working place for its employees and shall provide in the factory adequate sanitation, a satisfactory first aid facility and a clean lunchroom.
(b)	The Union, in consultation with the employees in the bargaining unit, shall appoint employees to its Health and Safety Committee. The Committee shall have all the powers and responsibilities of a Health and Safety Committee under the occupation Health and Safety Act, 1978. The names of the Committee members and their work locations shall be posted and kept posted in a conspicuous place or places where it is most likely to come to the attention of the employees in the bargaining unit.
(c)	The Committee shall meet with the Employer at least every three (3) months. If an emergency meeting is called by either the Committee or the Employer, then both parties shall meet immediately. The Committee and the Employer shall discuss and attempt to resolve any problems concerning the health and safety of the employees.	/
14
fj
21.	ONE SYSTEM OF WORK:
Only one system of work shall prevail in any one craft of any factory, either piece-work or time-work. An employer desiring to vary the system of work for any craft, either from piece-work to time-work or vice-versa, may do so only under the following conditions, namely:
1.	The consent of the Union shall first be obtained to such proposed variation, provided that such consent shall not be unreasonable withheld.
2.	Such change shall only be effected on the first January or first day of July in any year.
3.	In the event that such change is effected on the first day of January, the same shall remain in effect without further change for at least a period of one (1) year.
4.	In the event that such change is effected on the first day of July, the same shall remain in effect without further change for a period of at least six (6) months.
5.	It is agreed that Employers desiring to change over from full garment production to section work production must first notify the Guild and the Union.
Thereupon the Guild and the Union may agree as to the manner, method and conditions of the change over which must recognize the full protective intent of the employees. Any disagreement between the Parties hereto in connection to the foregoing shall be referred to the Impartial Chairman for final and binding decision.
22.	SHOP CHAIRMAN AND PRICE-COMMITTEE:
(a)	The employees in each shop shall at a regular meeting convened at the instance of the Union but not during working hours, select a Shop Chairman who shall deal and
15
negotiate with the Employer on behalf of the employees, and they shall also select a Price Committee of not less than two (2) or more than fifteen percent (15%) of the operating crafts, who, together with the Shop Chairman, shall settle prices with the Employer on behalf of the employees.
(b)	In the event of the absence of any members of the Price Committee, a majority thereof shall, together with the Shop Chairman have full authority to settle prices.
(c)	The Employer shall not hinder or interfere in any way with the calling of shop meetings, provided however, that no such shop meetings shall be called during regular working hours,
23.	PRICE SETTLEMENTS;
(a)	At the commencement of each season the Employer and Employees shall make a sincere attempt to settle prices before commencing work. In regard to time-workers, it is agreed that if time-work rates or wages have to be adjusted, it is desirable that such adjustment should take place before the commencement of the season and any adjustment subsequently made shall be retroactive to the ! commencement of the season.
(b)	A Joint Committee composed of ten (10) persons, five (5) of whom shall be nominees of the Guild, shall forthwith be set up and shall determine the basis of payment which shall apply in the event that the Employer and Shop-Committee shall be unable to settle the prices. The conclusion of this Joint Committee shall become and form part of this Agreement and shall supercede any other provision of this clause of the Agreement.
(c)	If during the season new styles are introduced and wage rates to be paid therefore are not settled by the parties in advance or if in a situation of emergency, special orders, or commitments for styles for which wage rates have not been settled and the employer requires such work be done, such work shall he done, provided:
16
]. The parties shall make a sincere attempt to settle the wage rates to be paid for such work.
2.	In the event that the parties are unable to settle such piece-work rates between themselves, the employees shall receive the requested piece-rates on account pending settlement. Piece-work rates for such work shall, in the event of failure to settle between the Employer and the Shop Committee, be settled by the representative of the Guild and the Union, or alternatively, be referred to the Impartial Chairman within fourteen (14) days of commencement of work, and the Impartial Chairman shall render his decision within forty-eight hours of the case in question being referred to him. After settlement or adjudication, piecework rates and payments shall be adjusted accordingly.
24.	PRICELISTS;
(a)	All piece-work price lists shall be posted conspicuously and within easy access to the employees in the factory. Copies of all settled piece-work prices or adjusted time-week rates shall be furnished by the Employer to the Union at the beginning of each season. On furnishing such price lists, these, on confirmation by the Union, shall remain the settled prices.
(b)	It is agreed that a piece-worker is entitled to a weekly record of the quantity of garments produced, style numbers and prices paid therefor. The onus of such provision of records is placed on both the Employer and Employee.
(c)	It is agreed to establish a minimum piece price for dress finishers of ten cents (IOC).
(d)	It is agreed that a worker is to be compensated for time spent in making repairs for which he/she is not responsible.
17
25.	HOLIDAYS:
(a)	No work shall be done on the following legal holidays: New YearVDay, Good Friday, Easter ^Monday, Victoria /Day, Canada, Day, Civic Holiday, Labour'£>ay, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Boxing-'Day or on the days on which such legal holidays are obsserved, whether or not such days fall on a week day. No worker may be compelled to work on other legal, statutory or religious holiday.
(b)	It is agreed that General Provincial and Federal Election days compensation will be as per Election Act. (At least 4 hours off before polls close).
(c)	A worker must be employed by the same
Employer for a period of one (I) month prior to any legal holiday. Employees shall receive pay in full for New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving^Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day. ^	j ' qQ
(d)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, any’ employee who is absent (except in the case of incapacity caused by sickness or resulting from slackness, lay-off or with consent of the Employer) for one (1) full day during the work-week in which any of the aforesaid holidays fall, shall be entitled to receive only EIGHTY PERCENT (80%) of the pay granted for such holiday. If such employee is absent two (2) full days during the work-week in which any of the said holidays fall, such employee shall be entitled to receive only SIXTY PERCENT (60%) of the pay granted for such holiday. If such employee is absent three (3) full days during the work-week in which any of the said holiday fall, such employee shall be entitled to receive only FORTY PERCENT (40%) of the pay granted for such holiday. If any employee is absent more than three (3) days during any work-week in which any of the said holidays fall (except in the case of incapacity caused by sickness or resulting from slackness or lay-off), such employee shall not receive any pay for any of the aforesaid holidays which fall within such work-week during which such employee was so
18
absent. To qualify for payment thereunder, an employee who is ill must furnish proof’ of illness by presenting a medical certificate.
(e)	The amount to be paid to each employee for each of the said paid holidays shall be, in the case of piece-workers (see Clause 26) and in the case of week-workers or time-workers, equivalent to his daily rate then being received. Where any of the said paid holidays falls on a non-working day, employees shall notwithstanding receive a day’s pay, therefore, as aforesaid.
(f)	Any employee now receiving payment for any statutory, legal or religious holidays other than herein provided, shall notwithstanding the foregoing, continue to be paid as heretofore.
(g)	The Guild and the Union are in agreement that employees on lay-off for less than 3 months, during which the time a public holiday occurs, the payment for such holiday will be the difference between the holiday rate and the U.I.C. payment.
(h)	It is agreed that a holiday which falls on a Saturday or Sunday shall be moved to either Friday before or the Monday following. The choice of the day to be left with the Employer. The Employer shall make his selection at least two (2) weeks before the said holiday.
26.	HOLIDAY PAY - AVERAGE
HOURLY EARNINGS;________________________________
The Union and the Guild agree that payment for holiday pay should be calculated on an hourly basis. With regard to paid holidays, the average hourly earnings of pieceworkers shall be calculated as follows:
1. Where an employee has worked in his craft in the Industry during the previous year and his income tax pay records are available for this period, this average hourly earnings shall be the amount shown to have been received by him, divided by
19
the number of’ hours worked by him. Percentage increases should be added to the holiday pay for those holidays after August first.
2. It is agreed to permit work on the following legal holidays, provided both Employers and employees agree that provided it is deemed an emergency, and provided that such holiday falls on a day which is normally a working day. Payment for such work shall be on the basis of time and one-half (1-1/2) in addition to payment for the holiday. The following days will be available: Victoria Day, Canada Day, Thanksgiving Day, Boxing Day, Civic Holiday.
27.	BEREAVEMENT PAY:
(a)	It is agreed to grant employees, members of the Union, three (3) days’ leave with jray to grieve of a member of his or her immediate family, provided that the employee loses time on a regularly scheduled work day. The pay for such leave will be calculated on the same basis as holiday pay. At the request of the Employer, the employee shall produce proof of death of the person involved. The immediate family shall be defined as spouse, child, father, mother, brother, sister. For mother/father-in-law such leave shall be two (2) maximum days with pay. To qualify for such leave, an employee must work in the same plant for a minimum period of two (2) months prior to the granting of leave.
(b)	It is agreed that absence by death requiring the employee’s attendance for a family funeral taking place out of’ the country such absence shall not jeapordize the employee’s job, for a maximum period of twenty-one (2 1) days.
28.	NO WORK TO STRUCK SHOP:
No Employer shall directly or indirectly either give j,, work to or purchase any garments from or do or perform arty / work or services for or supply any merchandise whethei \ completed or partly completed to any manufacturer, jobber oi
20
contractor in the industry against whom the Union is conducting a strike.
29. PICKET LINES:
It is further agreed that a refusal to cross an I.L.G.W.U. Picket line by Union members shall not be considered a violation of this Collective Agreement, either on the part of the Union or a Union member; provided however, an examination of the particular circumstances in any instance has been made by the Manager of the Union and the Executive Director of the Guild, and only following a report submitted by both parties.
30.	INDIVIDUAL CONTRACTS:
No Employer shall make any individual contract or arrangements with an employee, or exact or accept any cash deposit or other security from any employee, nor shall any Employer enter into any agreement with any individual employee respecting wages, hours, conditions of employment or guaranteeing any length of employment.
31.	VISITS TO EMPLOYEES:
(a)	A duly authorized officer or representative of the Union shall at all times have access to the factory of each Employer for the purpose of dealing with any specific complaint condition or other matter arising out of or appertaining to this Agreement or its operation or the relation of the patties hereto or to determine compliance with the terms of this Collective Agreement, and such representative and the Employer shall together co-operate so as to enable any such matter to be investigated, dealt with and disposed of as satisfactorily and expeditiously as possible.
(b)	The Employer shall at all times have the right to inquire its to the reasons for any such visits as described in Clause (a) above but not so ,s to impede such visits.
21
(c)	Where the Employer feels himself abused by such shop visits (see Clause A) the Employer shall have the right to call upon the Union and the Guild. Where disagreement occurs the pat-tics may apply Clause 33 re: Arbitration.
32.	RECOGNITION OF GUILD:
The Union recognizes the Guild as the representative organization of the T oronto manufacturers in the said industry and agrees, so long as the said Guild observes the terms of this Agreement and so long as the said Guild is, by its membership, representative of a major portion of the said industry, that:
1.	The Union will not enter into any Agreement with any other Association of manufacturers or with any individual Employer who has been or may hereafter become a member of the said Guild, and :
2.	That any proposed Agreement with any othei
person, firm or corporation shall be on no more favourable terms in any respect than this Agreement, and that upon completion a true copy thereof shall be furnished to the Guild, and:
3.	Both the Guild and the Union agree to co-operate with one another to maintain fair trade practices anti standards in (he Industry.
33.	ARBITRATION;
(a)	It is agreed that Martin Teplitsky, Rick McDowell and S.D. O’Shea are mutually agreeable to the pat-tics as Impartial Chairmen. The party requesting arbitration shaft notify the other party in writing of the names of the one (I) arbitrator on the panel which it does NOT wish to hear the case. The party in receipt of such notice shall notify the other party of the one (I) arbitrator which it does NO'I wish to hear the case. The remaining arbitrator shall be appointed the arbitrator to hear the case.
22
(b)	In the event of any dispute or grievance respecting the settlement of wage rates or the interpretation or application of proper observance or performance of any clause of this Agreement, including any cases arising out ofdischarge, such dispute shall in the first instance be negotiated between the Manager of the Union (or his deputy) and the Manager of the Guild (or his deputy) and any decision so mutually agreed upon shall be binding upon each of the parties hereto.
(c)	In the event of the Managers (or their deputies) failing to agree, such dispute shall be referred for decision to the Impartial Chairman. The Impartial Chairman shall deliver his decision in writing within a reasonable time and as expeditiously as possible following the submission of any dispute to him.
(d)	The decision of the Impartial Chairman shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned, and the Impartial Chairman shall also deal with and decide upon all other matters by this Agreement referred to him for decision, and shall render such decision in respect to such matters as he shall deem appropriate.
(c)	Any dispute to be referred to the Impartial Chairman shall be reduced to writing by the parties claiming to be aggrieved and a copy shall be forthwith furnished to the Impartial Chairman and to the other party, and any decision rendered by the Impartial Chairman upon such dispute shall be (Lilly complied within twenty-four (24) hours of such decision.
(t) The cost of the Impartial Chairman will be borne equally by the parties.
34.	NO STRIKE OR LOCK-OUT;
The Union undertakes and agrees that while this Agreement is in operation, neither the Union nor employees shall take part in or call or encourage any strike, or any picketing and the Company agrees that it will not engage in any lockout during the term of this Agreement. The terms “strike” and “lockout” as used herein shall be deemed to be
23
in accordance with the definitions contained in the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
35.	UNION LABEL:
(a)	With the object of promoting the increased sale of dresses, sportswear or associated articles produced or manufactured by the Employers, the Union undertakes and agrees to provide the Employers at a reasonable minimum cost, with Union labels for the purpose of informing the public that the Employers employ only Union help; and such Union label shall be provided and affixed to garments produced or manufactured by Employers.
It is distinctly understood and agreed that such Union Labels are and shall remain the property of the Union, and the Union shall have the right to demand the surrender of such Union Labels from any Employer who may fail to comply with the provisions of this Agreement. With regard to the said Unbion Labels, the methods of checking, application and enforcement of this scheme shall be as determined between the Guild and the Union.
(b)	It is agreed to establish a committee of Guild and Union representatives in order to research and discuss and implement a new improved method of producing a Union Label. Such label may also contain reference to fibre content. The sewing of the label in a prominent position and the price structure of the label would also be matter for discussion.
(c)	It is agreed that every Employer governed by this Agreement shall have sewn into every garment made by such Employer, a Union Label of‘ the size and description determined by the Union.
(d)	Such Union labels shall be supplied by the Union at the following rates:
Manufacturers Selling Price of Garment	Price for Iaihels
Up to ,$49.95	$7.50
Over $50.00	$10.00
24
(e)	The parties agree to establish a committee of the Guild and Union representatives in order to research, discuss and implement a new improved method of producing a Union Label: its printing, fibre content, sewing in a prominent place and price structure of the Union Label.
(f)	The parties agree that the method of control as to supply and enforcement of the Union label shall belong solely to the Union, which shall have the right to check the production records of each employer for such purpose; and the Guild shall cooperate for the purpose of controlling the proper enforcement with respect to the due compliance by the employer with the obligation that every garment made by each employer shall be made in a Union shop and shall bear the Union label. A Guild representative shall accompany the Union representative in case of a production record audit.
36.	PROHIBITION OF HOMEWORK;
It is agreed that homework of any kind given directly or indirectly is prohibited.
37,	CONTRACTING OUT;
The Company’s right to contract out work will be exercised in accordance with the following.
The guiding principle shall be that no 'Contract work-'ZpT will be permitted unless the shop is fully employed.
Notwithstanding the foregoing it is recognized that the ( Company has the right to contract out in order to meet the delivery requirements of the customer, or produce a line of typically lower price merchandise the Union has agreed in advance to be contracted out.
If the Union alleges that there is a violation to this clause, it has the right to grieve to the Impartial Chairman.
The Impartial Chairman has the authority to penalize the offending Company IO percent of the value of the work contracted out deemed by the Impartial Chairman to be in
25
violation of this clause, these monies to be paid to the Retirement Fund within one month of judgement.
38.
HEALTH AND WELFARE FUND BENEFITS:
The parties agree to continue the maintenance of the Health and Welfare Fund in the Dress and Sportsweai Industry. The Employers shall contribute to the Toronto Dress and Sportswear Welfare Fund Inc. The Employers shall contribute to the Fund an amount equal to two percent of the employees’ earnings based upon the gross wages of the employees effective July 1989. The Toronto Dress and Sportswear Welfare Fund Inc. as presently constituted, shall continue to be administered by the Board of Trustees equally respresentative of the Guild and the Union.
Medical Supplement
(a)	It is agreed to provide a maximum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) from the Health & Welfare Fund each year as a Medical Benefit or a portion thereofat the end of the year. All payments arc to be made pursuant to the mles and regulations which have been established for the Fund. It is further agreed that this benefit will cease after 1989.
Eyeglass Benefits	y
(b)	It is agreed to increase the eyeglass benefits from . ($60.00) sixty dollars to ($75.00) seventy-five dollars starting October 1, 1989 according to the rules and regulations as established for the Fund.
Sick Benefit	•
(c)	It is agreed to provide an increase in Sick Benefits
from $95.00 per week to $125.00 this year (October 01, v 1989), according to the rules and regulations as established for the Fund.	q”
Dental Plan	^'(10 i T”:/A
(d)	It is agreed to add cleaning and x-ray to the list of major dental procedures including extractions, fillings and other work for union members only covered under the present
[()(
'■n
(c
V
f,
I
ill
26
-v I
plan cfleetivc October I, 1989. It is further agreed to increase coverage from $500 to $1000 for members only per year, according to the rules and regulations as established for the Fur|d-	' j Q{
Family Drug Program	1 C < '
(e)	Starting October I. 1989 Union members and their immediate families will be reimbursed for their prescriptions, lo a maximum of $500.00 per year per family according to the rules and regulations as established by the Fund.
Maternity Benefits
(f)	It is agreed that the Toronto Dress and Sportswear Welfare Fund Inc. provide maternity benefits to workers in good standing who are employed by contributing firms if the worker returns to work alter birth within a period of time to be determined and continues to work in a contributing firm. Such worker shall be paid a maternity benefit of one hundred dollars ($ 100.00) according to the rules and regulations of the fund.
Death Benefits	\ -*V T :
(g)	Both parties agree to continue the present insurance of a twenty-live thousand ($25,000.00 maximum) Death Benefit by the way of payment by the Health and Welfare Fund on behalf of each Union employee employed by a Union Employer herein an annual premium of twelve dollars ($12.00) to the Death Benefit Fund of the I.L.G.W.U.
Severance Pay	■'[	/ ' J ' f-
(h)	Both parties agree ter provide severance fund benefits according to the rules and regulations of the Fund.
(i)	The Union agrees that any Employers undei Union Agreement other than those subject to this Collective Agreement shall contribute on a similar contributory basis to the said Fund and a charge for service to such Employers shall be determined by the Board of Trustees.
(j)	The Guild makes the commitment that if more companies are brought into this fund, the trustees may provide for additional benefits lo refiect additional revenues.
27
39.	VACATION WITH PAY FUND:
(a)	The Employers agree to contribute four percent (4%) of earnings into a Vacation with Pay Fund shall henceforth be known as the Toronto Dress and Sportswear Industry Vacation with Pay Fund for the benefit of the members of the Union in their employ. The four percent (4 %) contributions shall be made on a monthly basis and this Vacation Fund will be supervised and administered jointly by the Guild and the Union. Employees shall receive full amounts of the four percent (4%) contributions on their behalf when such employees commence their vacations.
(b)	Employees shall receive two (2) weeks vacation. » ;4 Employers agree to grant their employees two (2) weeks / vacation pay in the amount of four percent (4%) of their,’ earnings during the period commencing the first of June and! A ending the thirty-first day of May of the following year.
(c)	Only members of the Union, who are working in shops covered by this Collective Agreement, shall be eligible to receive payments from this Vacation Fund.
(d)	Effective August 1,1994 all employees with 5 or fj}' more years of service with the same employer shall receive 3 A*!
. V
V \ <
weeks summer vacation atJL%- gross wages.
(e) All surplus funds in the Vacation Fund, after providing for contingencies, shall be used as the Trustees shall decide.
40.	VACATION WITH PAY -THIRD WEEK:_________________________
(a)	Employers agree to provide all Union members, employed by a Union firm under this Agreement with a third week vacation.
(b)	Such vacation to be taken during the period of December 1st - January 7th.
(c)	The Employer shall have the sole right to designate when such vacation may be taken during the period.
28
It is further agreed that Employer shall post advance notice not later than November I st to announce the third week vacation period.
(cl) Each eligible employee shall receive two percent (2%) of the wages earned during the period of December first to November 30th of the following year. The same period to he used lor calculations in succeeding years.
(e)	The Employer shall be the sole custodian and distributor of the monies to he used for this purpose.
(f)	Union employees who have worked less time than the period indicated hut not less than three (3) months shall receive two percent (2%) of the monies carried as a Union member.
41.	SERVICE SUPPLEMENT:
The Union and the Guild agree that all Union workers receive a “Service Supplement” of one percent (I %) of wages from their Employers. The terms and conditions used for the third week vacation shall apply.
42. RETIREMENT FUND: /Qd> • '	?
(a)	The Toronto Dress and Sportswear Industry Retirement Fund shall continue and each Employer shall continue to make monthly contributions equivalent to font percent (4%) of gross payroll of all employees.
(b)	Starting August 0 I . 199 1 , each Guild employer to pay equivalent of live percent (5%) of gross payroll of all employees on a monthly basis.
(e) It is agreed that monthly pension to retirees be maintained to a niaiximum of one hundred and thirty dollars ■ ($130.00). p:, ■
(d)	Benefits to Retirees arc 'those under the plan and may change from time to time at the discretion of the Trustees of the Fund.
29
It is agreed that if it is actuarily sound and after consultation with our actuaries, and after permission is granted by the Pension Commission the following will be demanded and instituted if actuarily sound:
1
2
3
4.
Pension for current retirees to be increased; Women be allowed to retire at 60 years of age if they otherwise qualify;
Members to be able to retire after 30 years of service regardless of age.
Members to be allowed to retire with 20 out of 25 years service instead of the present 20 out of 30 years of service requirement.
(e)	Should the Government involuntarily wind up the Fund the Union will not go after Guild members for any money other than those owing as of the date of the said windup.
(1) It is agreed that the general regulations of the Toronto Dress and Sportswear Retirement Fund be as follows to obtain maximum pension will be as follows:
“An Employee who has been employed twenty (20) out of twenty-five (25) years and the last ten (10) years continuously has reached sixty-five (65) years of age or is unable to work, and has reached the age of fifty-five (55) years immediately prior to reitrement, provided that such employee is a member of the Union and has been employed by a Manufacturers’ Guild Inc. and a contributor to the Toronto Dress and Sportswear Retirement Fund Inc.”
(g)	It is agreed that the Health and Welfare Fund will pay retirees eyeglass benefits. The rules and regulations applicable to regular members will also apply to retirees.
(h)	It is agreed that the Health and Welfare Fund will pay the Death Premium of thirteen dollars ($13.00) per year to those retirees who are covered by the Death Benefit insurance plan and for all future employees.
30
(i)	It is agreed by both parties that the Dress & Sportswear Industry Funds should merge with the Toronto Cloakmakers Health/Well'are and Retirement Funds.
43.	CONDITIONS OF PAYMENT;
(a)	All monies payable to the Toronto Dress and Sportswear Industry Retirement Fund, the Vacation Fund, the Health and Welfare Fund, as provided for in this Agreement shall he pair! into the Office of the Guild not later than the 10th day of the month following the month for which said monies may he due. The Union shall have the right to examine ledgers and accounts of the di fferent funds for the purpose of assuring itsel f that payments are made by Employers in accordance with the foregoing.
(b)	It is agreed that the Union and Guild will togethei determine lo apply (or not) collection and/or arbitration procedures in order to effect collection of premiums overdue to the Retirement, Health and Welfare and Vacation Funds. In the event arbitration procedures arc required the Employe) must abide by the decision of the arbitrator within forty-eight (48) hours of the said decision.
Failure to do so would entitle the Union notwithstanding Section 32 and without prejudice to any olhei recourse available in law. to cause cessations of work in his plant, and the Employer shall compensate the workers foi time lost timing said cessations.
(e) It is agreed that the Employer shall pay two percent (2%) for each monthly payment that is late from the date when it becomes due. The delinquent Employer shall pay all the costs of collecting monies for the various funds, including the cost of arbitration, the legal lees involved, and the lees of an auditor.
(d)	It is agreed that the Union shall have the right to assure itsel (that Employer are complying with the terms of the contract regarding payments made to the Welfare Funds. The Union may, in concert with the Guild, request that an
31
examination of the Employer’s wage records of factory employee be made. Such examination to be made under the direction of the Auditors of the Funds. If there is a discrepancy, all costs of the investigation are to be borne by the Employer, if the Employer is found guilty.
44.	PAYROLL RECORDS;
It is agreed that the Union and the Guild have the right and permission to obtain Payroll Records of each of our employees which are submitted to the Toronto Dress and Sportswear Advisory Committee.
45.	EDUCATION FUND;
The Guild agreed that it will pay annually to the education fund on the same format as the previous agreement based on the existing formula, which, in the first year, would result in a contribution of approximately $10,000. The Union agrees that if any company in Ontario does not pay to the education fund equal to the Guild rate after the signing of this Agreement then the Guild obligation would cease for the duration of this Agreement.
46.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE;
Requests for leave of absence must be made to the employee’s supervisor and, if granted, such leave of absence will be confirmed, in writing, and without gay or any other monetary benefit under the provisions of the Agreement. Leave of absence, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be permissive only, and shall be understood to mean an absence from work requested, in writing, by the employee on the form provided for such purpose and consented to, in writing, by the employee’s supervisor covering a permitted period of time for personal reasons. Leave of absence will not be granted to accept other employment of any kind. The Company agrees, as a matter of policy, to co-operate with employees with respect to leave of absence for personal
32
reasons. It is further agreed, to increase leave of absence for up to 21 days during peak period, and up to 6 weeks during slow periods.
FORM OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE
____________________________________is hereby granted leave
of’ahsence from_____________________to_____________________
without pay or any other form of monetary benefit. This leave will not be extended unless it is in writing.
must return to work on
Dated at ______ this
day ot_______ 19
Employee
copy for union copy for employei copy for employee
47.	DURATION:
This Agreement shall come into operation as of the FIRST DAY OF AUGUST. 1989 and shall continue in force and effect for three (3) years, ending on the 3 I ST DAY OF JULY, 1992, and shall continue in force thereafter from year ITTyear unless either party shall have given at least sixty (60) days but not more than ninety (90) days in writing to the other party of its desire to terminate the Agreement on the 3 1ST DAY OF JULY, following such written notice.
33
48.	INTERPRETATION:
In this Agreement words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender, and all nouns or pronouns herein shall be deemed to include individual proprietorships, partnerships and coaorations, as the context may require.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and seals, or paused its corporate seal duly attested by its proper officers in that behalf to be hereunto affixed, as the case may be:
TORONTO DRESS AND SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS' GUILD', INC.

VINCE MACCARONEPRESIDENT
DAVID' PICER, VICE PRESIDENT
In the presence of
INTERNATIONAL LADIES GARMENT WORKERS' UNIONfc^bOCALS 1A-83-92
HERMAN STEWART, MANAGER
GRETA hAwARTH, BUSINESS AGENT
HARRY MOHABIR, BUSINESS AGENT
MARY Sa£A
WILFRED KRONQUIST /
^.:
MANNV BRICKS
35
HIGHLIGHTS OF GUILD NEW CONTRACT
BENEFITS:
1.	SICK BENEFIT:
Increased from $95.00 to $125.00 per week.
2.	EYEGLASS:
Increased from $60.00 to $75.00.
3.	DRUG PLAN:
Increased from $350.00 to $500.00 for family.
4.	DENTAL PLAN:
Increased from $500.00 to $1,000.00 for members only. Now includes cleaning and x-ray.
5.	LIFE INSURANCE:
Increased from $17,000.00 to maximum of
To be paid holiday starting in 1990. (Election Day — No longer a holiday.)
7.	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE:
Now three (3) days with pay for close relatives.
8.	EDUCATION FUND:
Guild to contribute $10,000.00 per year to Education Fund.
9.	VACATION:
Three (3) weeks summer vacation and 6% effective in
1994.
10.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
Now three (3) weeks in busy times, up to six (6) weeks in non-busy times.
11.	U.I.C.
The Guild and the Union agree that during lay offs and for holidays, that the company pay holiday pay for the difference between the holiday rate and the U.I.C. payment,
$25,000,00_.
6. EASTER MONDAY:
36
12.	WAGE INCREASES:
Time Workers: Year 1 — 50 cents;
Year 2 — 45 cents;
Year 3 — 45 cents;
Piece-workers: Year 1 — 4%;
Year 2-4%;
Year 3 -4%.
13.	DURATION:
Three (3) year contract to expire July 31, 1992.
14.	Back ptty August 1, 1989 on all hours worked including piece-workers.
37
PUNTI SALIENTI DEL NUOVO
CONTRATTO DELLA GUILD
BENEFICI:
1.	BENEFICI PER MALATTIA:
Aumentati da $95.00 a $125 .00 la settimana
2.	OCCHIALI:
Aumento da $60.00 a $75.00.
3.	PIANO MEDICINALI:
Aumento da $350.00 a $500.00 per famiglia.
4.	PIANO DENTISTICO:
Aumento, per i soli membri, da $500.00 a $1,000.00. Adesso include pulizia e radiografie.
5.	ASSICURAZIONE SULLA VITA:
Aumento da $17,000 al massimo di 25,000.
6.	LUNEDI’ DI PASQUA:
da far divenire festivita pagata nel 1990. (Giornata delle elezioni: non piu festivita).
7.	PERMESSI PER LUTTO:
Adesso 3 (tre) giornate pagate per parenti stretti.
8.	FONDO PER L’ISTRUZIONE:
La Guild dovra contribuire al Fondo per L’lstruzione con $10,000 all’anno.
9.	FERIE:
3 (tre) settimane di ferie estive e 6% con effetto dal 1994.
10.	ASPETTATIVE:
Adesso 3 (tre) settimane in periodi ad alto volume di lavoro, fino a 6 (sei) settimane in periodi di lavoro scarso.
11.	DISOCCUPAZIONE (U.I.C.)
La Guild e il Sindacato aderiscono sul fatto che durante i periodi di sospensione (lay offs) e per ferie. L’azienda paghi l’indennita ferie per la differenza fra la tariffa prevista per le ferie e il pagamento U.I.C.
38
12.	AUMENTI SALARIALI:
Lavoro a tempo: Anno 1 — 50 centesimi Anno 2—45 centesimi Anno 3—45 centesimi Cottimo: Anno 1—4%
Anno 2—4%
Anno 3—4%.
13.	DURATA:
Contratto di 3 (tre) anni con scadenza 31 luglio 1992.
14.	Arretrati dall’l agosto 1989 su tutte le o r e lavorate compresi i cottimisti.
39
PONTOS SALIENTES DO NOVO
CONTRATO DA GUILD
BENEFICIOS:
1.	BENEFICIOS DE DOENQA:
Aumentaram de $95.00 para $125.00 por semana
2.	OCULOS:
Aumentaram de $60.00 para $75.00.
3.	PLANO DE DENTES:
Aumentou de $350.00 para $500.00 por familia.
4.	PLANO DE DENTES:
Aumentou de $500.00 para $1,000.00 para membros apenas. Agora inclui limpeza a Raios-X.
5.	SEGURO DE VIDA
Aumentou de $17,000 para o maximo de $25,000.
6.	SEGUNDA-FEIRA DE PASCOA:
Passara a ser urn feriado pago em 1990. (O Dia de Eleigoes deixara de ser feriado).
7.	LICENCA POR LUTO:
Agora tres (3) dias pagos para parentes chegados.
8.	FUNDO DE EDUCA£AO:
A GUILD vai contribuir $10,000 por ano para o Fundo de Educa?ao.
9.	FERIAS:
Tres (3) semanas de ferias de verao e 6% a partir de 1994.
10.	LICEN^A DE AUSENCIA:
Agora tres (3) semanas em periodo de muito trabalho ate seis (6) semanas em periodos de menos trabalho.
11.	SEGURO DE DESEMPREGO:
A GUILD e o Sindicato concordam que durante periodos de desemprego (lay offs) e para ferias, a companhia pague subsidio d e ferias pela diferenca entre o pagamento de ferias e o pagamento de fundo de desemprego (U.I.C.).
40
12.	AUMENTOS DE SALARKXS:
Trabalhadores
Regulares: Ann I — 50 ccntimos Ano 2 — 45 ccntimos Ano 3 — 45 ccntimos
Trabalhadores
“Piece-workers”: Ano 1 — 4% Ano 2 — % Ano 3 -4%
13.	mjrac;ao:
Tres (3) anos de contrato para terminal' cm 3 I dc Julho
dc 1992
14.	PAGAMENTO ATRAZADO:
Pagamento atrazado a comegar cm I de Agosto de 1989 para todas as horas dc trabalho incluindo para os trabalhadores dc “piece-work”.
41
TA EIIOTAAIOTEPA ETEIirETHMATA THE NEAE ETMBAEHE THE ETNTEXNIAE
ETEIirETHMATA:
1.	ETEHTETHMATA AE0ENEIAE:
A fytfrjxe ax 6 $95.00 ora $125.00 efiboixabia itos
2.	TTAAIA MATI12N:
Aui; fydrjxe ax b $60.00 ora $75.00.
3.	TIA TA <I>APMAKA:
Av£ fjdr/xe air 'o $350.00 ora $500.00 xar 'a. oixoy 'evua.
4.	TIA TA AONTIA:
Avi- f/tJtjxe ax 'o $500.00 ota $1000.00 p 'ovov yia ra /t iXrj. Ev/xxegiXafiP 'averai r ix>ga xat?agiS/ta xat axnvoygaip la.
5.	AE$AAEIA ZOHE:
Avi; f]&r)xe ax 'o $17,000 ora av Uregov to>p $25,000.
6.	AETTEPA TOT IIAEXA:
9a x\r)g icvemi aav agy la agx l^ovxas ax 'o to 1990. (H/t tga EXX07 lev - Aev §a e Ivai xi 'a agy la.)
7.	AIIOTEIA AOrfi I1EN0OTE:
T inga € Ivai rge Is (3) rjfi iges pe xA^gcoii l] 1i bvo yia orevo Ts ovyyeve Is.
8 TAMEION EKHAIAETEHE:
H Ewreyv la 0a ovveioip 'egei $10,000 tov xq '°vo yia to Ta/ie lov Ex7ra iSevor)s.
9.	AIAKOnEE:
Tge is (3) e/3<5o/x fxSes to xaXoxa igi dia xox Is xai 6% agx I^ovtas ax 'o to 1994.
10.	AAEIA AIIOTEIAE:
T 'uga Tge Is (3) e/SSo/t 'abes arr)v xeg lodo thjs fiey biki}s axaax bArjorjs xat ££17 (6) tt\v oeg lodo 'oxi-fiey 'a\r)s axaox 6Xijarjs.
42
11.	U.I.C.:
/	/ Xuvrexv la xaifyvcaori avfiip lavrjiav 'on
xaT a rrjv neg 1080 ngoocagiv fys air (aXtjaris xai yia ns 8iaxoir is, rj ercage la da xXrjg com /c lodusjux 8iaxon lav yia rqv 6ia^og a nera£ b )ii8d ^/mxtos xavovix lav biaxon lav xai ext Lvov 7rou irXqg iavei to U.I.C.
12.	ATHHEH HMEP0MIE9WN:
Eq7 ares fit rqv Uga:
Xg bvos 1 — 50 a 'evr%. Xg ovos 2 — 45 a Ivts. Xq 'ovos 3 — 45 a evrs. Eg7 Ares-ytte to Ko/c/t (xto:
Xq ovos 1 — 4%.
Xg ovia 2 — 4%.
Xg ovia 3 — 4%.
13 AIAPKEIA:
H D bufiaoi] avr e tv at 8i a gxeias Tgi lav (3) er lav xai X fjipei otis 31 IouX lov, 1992.
14. nXi/gco/t ‘q xadvore gov/x 'tveav an b vqv 1 Avtpo 'votov, 1989 i}na oXes t l s coges irov bovXe bdqxav ovixTreQiXanfiavo/j. evcav xai Tcav egipar lav-fie to xo/ifi an.
43
jiSJ •
1.	^MS95-00if
2.	« : &S60-00if£$75.00(
3.	Mfaiff]: 3-&&&S350.00**.
4. %m\*\:	ft lit» £ $5(
°
5.	: & $1 7, 000 if JLJlitj
6.	* 1 990-^« >
7.	: j£Hli 3 At&l&M °
8.
9.	: & 1 9943-F« *
10.
11.
> &'a s]
12.	: u^wj j.	fs-
%-
%'-
#-
#-■
U-:
13.	tt^i :	. 2H992
14.	19894 8^ 1 a
44
$125.00
)
5500.00
00 *££$1,000.00 ’ *£&#X - it
525.000	°
%t$tfa$i (K&JkfaM) ° jo
tow fa ’	6 % °
-
L#J *	°
$0-5 0;
—	$0.4 5;
-	$0-4 5 ;
-4%;
-4%;
-4%;
31 a $3 >3§ °
45
APPENDIX A
The following are members of the Toronto Dress and Sportswear Manufacturers’ Guild as of August 1, 1989.
Almar Industries Becker Fashion Enterprises Blue Bird Dress of Toronto Charm Fashions Bernard Cowan & Co. Ltd.
Dan Dee Junior Wear Dance Originals & Tailored Jrs, Evina Fashions Inc.
G.L. Fashions Inc.
Charles B. Goodman Gordon Dress Inc.
Highlite Fashions Ltd.
Holiday Sportswear Mfg. Co.
Jac An Formals Ltd.
The Monaco Group: Alfred Sung Nu Mode Dress Company Original Sterling Sportswear Parry Time Fashions Summit Sportswear Co.
Title Dress Limited J.H. Warsh & Co. Ltd.
46
TORONTO DRESS & SPORTSWEAR INDUSTRY &
RETIREMENT FUND, INC.
RULES and REGULATIONS
AUGUST 1, 1989
ADMINISTERED UNDER THE TRUSTEESHIP OF
INTERNATIONAL LADIES GARMENT WORKERS’ UNION LOCALS 14-83-92
33 Cecil Street, Toronto, Ontario M5T 1N1 HERMAN C. STEWART, MANAGER
and
TORONTO DRESS & SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS’ GUILD, INC.
444 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, Ontario M5V 1S7 CHRIS S. KUZIK, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
RETIREMENT FUND
The Guild ant! the Union operate the Toronto Dress and Sportswear- Industry Retirement Fund. It provides retirement benefits as negotiated and is administered by trustees equally representing both groups. Full details of the plan are available from the Union office or by writing to:
The Toronto Dress and Sportswear Industry Retirement Fund Inc.,
444 Adelaide Street West,
Toronto, Ontario M5V IS7 Attention: Mr. C. Kuzik.
Who may join?
If you arc a member of the Union, ifyour employer is a member of the Guild participating in the plan, and if you have attained the age of 40 and have completed five- years of service with a participating employer, you automatically become a member of the pension plan.
How do I apply for benefits?
Once you have reached age sixty-four, you may apply for benefits. Application forms may he obtained from the Union office.
When do the benefits normally commence?
You become eligible for benefits if:
—	- you are sixty-five years old;
—	you have retired from all work in the industry;
—	you have been both a member of the Union and employed in the industry for twenty years out of a period of twenty-five years, of which the last ten years were continuous.
Retirement is not, however, compulsory at age sixty-five. With the consent of your employer, you may postpone your retirement indefinitely. If you decide to postpone your retirement beyond age 65, your benefits will commence when you actually stop working.
47
If you have retired and then return to work in the industry, your benefits will cease for the period during which you are working. Your benefits will start again when you stop working beginning with the following month.
Your first pension cheque will be dated on the first day of the
month after completion of the following requirements:
(i)	you become eligible for benefits,
(ii)	your application for benefits is at least one month old, and
(iii)	your application is approved by the Trustees. ’
Who pays for the benefits under this plan?
The full cost of the benefits .is paid by .the participating, employers. All the contributions are paid into the Toronto Dress JO . and Sportswear Industry Retirement Fund Inc. No employee is •*'' / required to make any contribution to the cost of this plan. The Trustees of the Fund consist of fourteen appointees, seven of whom are appointed by the Guild and seven of whom are M ^ appointed by the Union. The current Chairman of this Fund is Mr. Stewart.	'-I
What is the normal benefit?
The monthly benefit is $130.00. This benefit is paid to you for ^ / the rest of your life.	.	(
The amount of this benefit plus eligibility may change over the ' life of this collective agreement if actuarily possible.
What if I become disabled?
If you become totally disabled after age fifty-five and you > otherwise fulfill the service requirements, then you are eligible ’ for the full benefit. This will require an examination from the " >, Doctor of the Retirement Fund.
Do I receive any retirement benefit if I terminate mvp employment before retirement?	C
As of January 1987 you will have a vested interest after two years of service.
48
Do I receive any retirement benefit from this plan if I transfer to another local of the Union?
If the local you transfer to has a retirement plan, and if they agree to share the cost of the benefits to you, you will be eligible to receive a benefit which is proportional to your membership in this plan.	!
Is there any benefit to my beneficiary on my death?
You will be asked to name a primary and secondary beneficiary. If you were retired and receiving the full pension at the time of death, your primary beneficiary shall receive $500 from the Retirement Fund. If your primary beneficiary has died before you, then the $500 will be received by:your secondary beneficiary.	V'A '*
On death, your beneficiary may also be eligible to receive $1,750 from the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. However, you may have to apply for this benefit. Details are available at the Union office.
New rules and regulations.
Please note that as of January 1987 there have been many
changes in the Pension Act Statutes of Ontario 1987 chapter 35.
Ontario Regulations 708/87 as amended to Ontario Regulation
160/89 changes such as:
1.	Joint and survivor pension.
2.	To qualify for vested interest you must be a member for two years after the 3 I st day of December 1986.
3.	There were many other changes, any questions concerning the New Pension Act 1987 please contact the Union office or the Guild office.
Are there any other benefits to which I am entitled?
When you retire, you will remain a member of the Union, but you will not be required to pay any dues or charges. On retirement, you will automatically become a member of the Retirement Club. Both the Union and the Guild support the Club financially. The Club is most active and all retirees are
49
encouraged to participate. It is located at 326 Wilson Avenue West, Toronto.
You may be eligible for an allowance towards the payment of your prescription eyeglasses, to a maximum of $60.00 every two years.
PLEASE NOTE:
It is important to realize that there are many rules and regulations attached to each benefit which are not listed in this summary. Full details are available from the Union office or by writing to the Fund.
50
ADMINISTRATION
CO-CHAIRMEN
C.S. KUZIK	H. STEWART
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Messrs. C.S. Kuzik
C.	Andonoff
D.	Spicer
B.	Rozenzon
R.	Beker
S.	Szames
Messrs. H. Stewart M. Bricks R. Blackman A. Dagg
G.	Horwath M. Said
H.	Mojiabir
MEDICAL OFFICERS Dr. F.M. Birnbaum Dr. S. Colla Dr. S. Birnbaum
55
TORONTO DRESS & SPORTSWEAR INDUSTRY &
WELFARE FUND, INC.
RULES and REGULATIONS
AUGUST 1, 1989
ADMINISTERED UNDER THE TRUSTEESHIP OF
INTERNATIONAL LADIES GARMENT WORKERS’ UNION LOCALS 14-83-92
33 Cecil Street, Toronto, Ontario M5T 1N1 HERMAN C. STEWART, MANAGER
and
TORONTO DRESS & SPORTSWEAR MANUFACTURERS’ GUILD, INC.
444 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, Ontario M5V 1S7 CHRIS S. KUZIK, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
WELFARE FUND
The Toronto Dress and Sportswear Welfare Fund sponsors the following benefit programs:
—	a sick benefit
—	a maternity benefit
—	an eyeglass benefit
—	medical supplement benefit
—	severance pay
—	an insurance benefit
—	a drug plan
—	a dental plan
Full details on each plan can be obtained by contacting the Union office or by writing to:
The Toronto Dress and Sportswear Industry Welfare Fund Inc.,
444 Adelaide Street West,
Toronto, Ontario
M5V 1S7
Attention: Mr. C. Kuzik.
Who qualifies?
If you are a member of the Union for at least six months, and your employer is a member of the Guild for at least six months, then you automatically qualify for all benefits (except maternity and life insurance) within the rules established by the trustees.
How do 1 apply for benefits?
The forms are available at the Union office or from the Union Business Agent. It is important that in the case of the sick benefit you apply within two weeks from the outset of illness or you may not be eligible for benefits.
Who pays for the benefits under this plan?
The fidl^cost of J.he benefits, is paid by the participating .employers ..AirtHe contributions are paid into the Toronto Dress and Sportswear Industry Welfare Fund Inc. No employee is
51
required to make any contribution to the cost of operating this Fund. The Trustees of the Fund consist of fourteen appointees, seven of whom are appointed by the Guild and seven of whom are appointed by the Union. The current Chairman of the Welfare Fund is Mr. Chris Kuzik.
Sick Benefit V
1.	Each approved claim for sick benefit entitles the claimant to receive $125.00 per week up to twenty weeks, during any one year or 12 month period. This may be repeated for a maximum of twenty weeks for a second year for the same illness depending upon, the length of service of the member.
2.	All claims for sick benefit are reviewed each week by the Guild, Union, and Fund Doctor. Some illnesses are exempt from benefit. Examination may be required by the Fund Doctor before benefits are given.
3.	Normally if an employee suffers from an illness that keeps one from work he or she should contact the Union office immediately and also apply for U.I.C. benefits. For an extended illness the Fund would pay for the first two weeks of waiting period as required by the U.I.C.. Then the U.I.C. benefits would start. If the employee is still unable to work after U.I.C. benefits cease, then the Fund would continue benefits for a maximum of twenty weeks during any one 12 month period.
4.	There is a one week waiting period required before a benefit is given. If an individual is receiving U .I.C. benefits, the Fund would pay the first two weeks of waiting period. If hospitalization occurs there is no waiting period; benefits would commence immediately upon approval.
5.	No member will receive sick benefits if he or she is receiving workmen’s compensation benefits for the illness in question. If the individual has received an insurance benefit, then they are required to report it to the Union office and the sick benefit may be adjusted.
52
Maternity Benefit
A maternity benefit of $100.00 is available for workers who are members of the Union for at least one yar, return to work after a reasonable period of time, to a maximum of four months, to the same firm and provide a copy of the birth certificate.	, <	,
. U j
Eyeglass Benefit	0^ '
A member who requires prescription eyeglasses (lenses and/or frames) shall be eligible for a benefit of up to $75.00 upon approval of the application. A member may re-apply once every two years to replace their prescription eyeglasses. They must be a member of the Union for six months to be eligible.
Medical Supplement
A member who is eligible for Supplementary Medical Benefits shall receive a benefit in the amount of $25.00 per month for a maximum of $300.00 per year, paid once a year in December. For new members of the Union, there is a six month waiting period. This benefit continues during layoff, sickness, or maternity leave with these specific rules available from the Union office or by writing to the Fund. This benefit expires on December 3 1,1989.
(/
Severance Pay
For employees who work for companies that have terminated operations, either_completely or iu.niaj.Qr,part, shall be eligible to receive a benefit of $25.00 per year of service to a maximum of $400.00 per individual.	\	_ _
Insurance Benefit
The Fund pays the premium for a life insurance policy for all Union members. If members have been in good standing for at least two years prior to death, their estate is entitled to a death benefit insurance of $7,000. Members initiated after age 55 are entitled to a lesser amount. Retirees have a separate policy.
\f(Sr,
53
Drug Plan
The Fund offers a drug program for union members and their immediate family. They would be reimbursed for their prescriptions to a maximum of $500.00 per year per immediate family.
Dental Plan
The Fund offers a dental benefit for members only which reimburses members 50 percent for most procedures, to a maximum of $1,000 per year.
PLEASE NOTE:
It is important to realize that there are many rules and regulations attached to each benefit which are not listed in this summary. Full details are available from the Union office or by writing to the Fund.
54
ADMINISTRATION
CO-CHAIRMEN
C.S. KUZIK	H. STEWART
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Messrs. C.S. Kuzik
C.	Andonoff
D.	Spicer
B. Rozenzon
R.	Beker
S.	Szames
Messrs. H. Stewart M. Bricks R. Blackman A. Dagg
G.	Horwath M. Said
H.	Mohabir
MEDICAL OFFICERS Dr. F.M. Birnbaum Dr. S. Colla Dr. S. Birnbaum
55