Toronto Cloak Manufacturers' Association
and
Ontario District Council Of The International Ladies’ Garment Workers' Union, Locals 14,83 and 92
July 1, 1993	- June 30, 1995
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Toronto Cloak Manufacturers’ Association
and
Ontario District Council Of The International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union, Locals 14,83 and 92
July 1, 1993	- June 30, 1995
Collective Agreement
Between : The Toronto Cloak Manufacturers' Association (hereinafter referred to as the "association" for and on behalf of itself and all persons, firms and corporations who are at present orwho may hereafter become members cf the said Association, such Association and each of its maifaers being hereinafter referred to as the "Employers",
OF THE FIRST PART
And : The Ontario District Council of the International Ladies' Garment.Workers' Union, Locals 14, 83 and 92 hereinafter referred to as the "Union", for and on behalf of themselves and all persons who are at present or who may hereafter become members of the said union,
OF THE SECOND PART
WHEREAS the Employers are engaged, within the Province of Ontario, in themanufacture ctfcloaks, coats, suits,jackets, reefers, skirts,windbreakers, leather and suede garments and rainwear cf all description, and simulated fur and pile fabric garments, fez- w omen and children hereinafter referred to as the "INDUSTRY" ,and the Union is cmfosad of Employees in the said Industry;
AND WHEREAS theparties hereto aredesirous of continuing and promoting the principle of Collective Bargaining, the avoidance cf industrial conflict, and the regulations between Employers and Employees in the Industry;
NOW THEREFOREthe parties hereto covenant, promise and agreewith one another as follows:
1. AGENCY
1.01	The Employers recognizeand acknowledgethe Union as the exclusive
agent and representative of the workers in the Industry and the Union recognizes and acknowledges the Association as the exclusive agent and representative c£ the Employers in the Industry.
2. PERFORMANCE
2.01	The respective parties hereto covenant and agree with one another to observe the terms and conditions of this Agreement and to perform them in good faith, and, by the due exercise of all the powers which they lawfully possess, to secure and enforcethe due performance ofthe provisions thereof.
3. UNIONSHOP
3.01	All Errployers, Members c£ the Toronto Cloak Manufacturers’ Association, are obliged to maintain a Union Shop in their own establishments and in any establishment with which they are directly or indirectly connected, or with which they may become associated or have any relationships either as a partner, shareholder, director, or otherwise, the whole in connection with the industrial jurisdiction of the International Ladies’ Garment Workers’ Union.
3.02	It is the intention of this Agreement that where one or rare persons are engaged in the manufacture of products falling under the industrial
jurisdiction of this Agreement or in any industrial field orjurisdiction in which the International Ladies’ Garment Workers’ Union is operating or has Employer-Employee Agreements or relationships, such person or persons, whether individuals or partnerships at: corporations, shall be daligad to maintain a Union Shop in all establishments wherein they or any of Them have an interest, whether such an interest is a minority or a majority interest, and the principle of a Union Shop shall be and remain paramount and held inviolate in respect to all members of the Association and signatories hereto, and all indirect violations of thisprinciple are prohibited
3.03	This Clause shall not apply to any Manufacturer or Employer who purchases shares in any public corporation of which the stock is listed on a recognized stock exchange but who is not otherwise interested in such corporation except as a shareholder.
-2-
d oak-con
4. CLOSEDSHOP
401	Forthe performanceof the operations cf cutting, operating, pressing, finishing, tailoring, bushelling, special machine work, button sewing and a>3mining, the Employer shall subject to the provisions cf 4,03 of this Clause, engage and retain in their employ only workers who have been furnished Jby theUnion and whoaremembers in good standing of the Union; a member in good standing, forthe purposeof this Agreement being a person who holds and is entitled to hold aUnion Membership Card and who is not in arrears for more than four weeks in the payment to the Union of dues, fines car assessments.
402	Subject to the provisions of 4.03 of this Clause, no new workers shall be engaged by an Employer unless and until such worker presents to the Employer a working card properly signed by the responsible official of the Union directing such worker to the place ofbusiness of such Employer.
4.03 The Employer shall ipajre all such provisions and shall submit all such dues to the Union fornewmembers eft he Union upon completion of the Employee's probationary period.
404	If the Union isunableto supply to an Employer within 48 hours after
he or the Association submits a request to the Union, such help as he may require, the Employer may engage parsers who are not members of the Union, provided that such Employees shall become members of the Union within two wasks of the date upon which they commencetheir employment.
5- DUES CHECK-OFF
5.01	It is agreed that each and every Employer shall deduct firm the wages of every Union Employee the sum that shall be determined by the Union from the first pay of each month for Union Dues and the money so deducted shall be remitted to the:
Ontario District Council of IL.G.W.U.
33 Cecil Street, Toronto, Ontario, M5T INI
6. TRIAL PERIOD
6.01	Any worker furnished by the Union shall be given a reasonable trial period cf two weeks and after this trial period the worker diall constitute an Employee of such Employer andshall be entitled to all the rights, privileges, and benefits, as per rules and regulations, and shall be subject to all cf the conditions and obligations of this Agreement.
7. DISCHARGE CLAUSE
7.01	No worker shall be discharged or otherwise disciplined -without gpod or sufficient cause, except during,his trial period, If the discharge or disciplinary act is found to be unjustified, the worker shall be re-instated and may be compensated for his loss of earnings during the period of such discharge or disciplinary act.
8.	NO DISCRIMINATION
8.01	The parties agree that there will be no intimidation, discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practiced by either of them or their representative or members because of an Employee's membership or activities in the Union, or because of age, creed, colour, national origin, political or religious affiliation, sex or marital status.
9.	HOURS OF WORK
9,01	A wage's workshall consist of thirty-five (35) hours divided into five (5) working days, from Monday to Friday of each week, and workshall begin at 8:00 a.m.and shall continue until 4:00 p.m. with an interval of one (1) hour for lunch frrm 12:00 o'clock noon to 1:00 p.m. All work outside of the aforesaid hours shall be considered as overtime.
10.	REST PERIOD
Every Employer shall provide that all his Factory Employees shall have a ten minute rest period during each afternoon.
11.	OVERTIME AND EMERGENCY OVERTIME
11.01	Subject to the provisions of Article 11.02 no overtime shall be worked in the Industry in violation of the following principles:
i)	No overtime shall be worked in the establishment of any Employer unless there is a shortage of labour, or unless all machines operating in his establishment are in use and no space or facilities are available for additional machines or for additional Employees.
jj) No overtime shall be worked on Friday or on any days or at times when work is prohibited by law.
jjjj No overtime shall be worked an Saturday except that when during the regular working periods there is a labour shortage in the Industry or in the Biplcyar's establishmentor all machines are in use and there are no availablespacesfor additional machinesor for additionalemployeesand where overtimework has been part'oneed in the Employer's establishment by his Employees on Monday, Tuesday, Wfechesdfey and Thursday of a week, then overtime work shall be permitted between 7:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. on the Saturday of the week in which said overtime work has been performed at overtime rates <£ wages.
jv) Save Sac the production of samples and duplicates, no overtime shall be worked during the period between Good Friday and the first day of duly, including both such days, and during the period between Thanksgiving andthe firstday of January, includingboth such days.
v) Overtime shall not exceed two (2) hoursduringthe periodbetween January lstand Good Friday and two (2) hoursduringthe period between the first day c£ June and Thanksgiving Day on each of t h e first four working days of the week, namely; Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, provided that fur tailn-s may work overtime fir not more than two (2) hours on any day and eight (8) hours in any week
11.02	Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 11.01 if the parties declare an emergency to exist with regard to any particular shop or with regard to any particular craft in a shop, they may jointly permit the Employees overtime for not more than one (l)hourper day on the firstfour (4)working days of the ■week, namely; Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, either over and above the regular working hours or over and above any overtime permitted in the Industry in accordance with the provisions of Articlell.01 astheymay deem fit, provided that neither df the partiesshall arbitrarily refuse tojoin in such a declaration <£emergency.
11.03	No employee shall arbitrarily refuse to work in overtime when requested by his Employer to work overtime in accordance with the provisions cf Article 11,01 or when permission t o work overtime has been jointly granted ty the parties hereto in accordance with the parwisims, of Article 11.02. An Errployerwill give an Employee reasonablenotice of such request. Reasonable notice shall be construed to include notice on the night beforethe day of tho overtime. Reasonable notice does not apply m caseof an emergency declared by the parties.
11.04	It is agreed that overtimework shall be on a voluntary basis.
-5-
11.05	The overtime rate of pay shall be one and one-half (l1/*) times the regular rate, and shall be computed, in the case cf a week worker on the basis of the actual pay per hour earned by each worker, and, in the casecf a piece-worker, on the basis of the total number of hours worked by him in the week in which he worked overtime, and shall be paid to a worker who works more than seven (7)hours in any working day, provided that a worker shall be entitled to payment of overtime rates where he has failed to work seven (7) hours in any working day by reason of;
i)	his observance of a religious holiday or rite;
ii)	illness;
iii)	his reporting for work after 8:00 a.m.with the consent of his Employer; or
jv) Failure of the Employer to provide seven (7) hours work before 4:00 p.m, on the day on which the worker is required to work overtime.
11.00 The overtime rate of pay for piece-workers shall be one and one half
times the rate of pay received by such worker for the previous holiday, and in the event such rate of pay is not available then the overtime rate of pay shall be computed by calculating the average earnings per hour for the week immediately preceding the week in which overtime was worked by dividing the gross pay for such week by the numbers of hours worked, to determine the rate of pay for one hour and the overtime rate of pay dall be one and one-half times such hourly rate.
12.	WAGES
Bonus Schedule
Prnft
Operators
Finishers
Pressers
July 1993
1066
1066
1066
Gross wages herein as related to pieceworkers shall consist of th,eni settled piece rates plus the cost of livingbonus,
6
cloakcon
13. MINIMUM WAGES
13.01	All Employeesshall receive for a 35 hour week the minimum wage as set out in Schedule! annexed hereto.
13.02	ftrwrrial Rates. The Association and the Union shall have the right jointly to issue a special permit fixing a special rate below the minimum rates for deficient Employees whose production ds below normal and for Apprentices. In the event that the Association and the Union disagree on a rate far a defscLavt worker, then the Impartial Chairman, before granting a special permit fixing a special rata for any deficient Employee, shall obtain records of production from the Employer in order to determine a rateofpay, and copies of such records of productionshall bo made available to the Union.
13.03	Minimum Rates: Notwithstanding anything herein ocntainad, all minimum rates <± wages payable under this Agreement shall be at least fifteen percent (15%)higher than those provided by the Employment StandardsAct and at least ten percent (10%) higher than those provided by the Schedule for the Ladies' Cloak and Suit Industry under the Industrial Standards Act and all the minimum rates of wages payable under this Agreement, shall be re-adjusted accordingly.
i)	SAMPLES: The rates to be paid to pie-e workers other than operators engaged in making samples shall be 7593 above stock price settled for the ensuingseason.
ii)	The rates to be paid to operators engaged in making samples shall be as follows:
Categories#! and#2 - $4,00 per garment Categories #2 and #3 - $4.50 per garment.
Categories #4 and #5 - $o,50 per garment
iii)	It ds agreed that theparties hereto shall establish a category for new shops.
13.04	IT an Employer elects to change iho system of work for sample
makers from week-work to piece-work-----the sample making season, the
new system shall prevail inhisshopforatleast twofullconsecutiveseasons.
13.05	Duplicates: The rates tokepaid to pieceworkers engagedL'm making of duplicatesshall be as follows: 1 2
1	Duplicate - 40% above stock prices
2 Duplicate	- 35% above stock prices
-7-
3	Duplicates • 30% above stock prices
4	Duplicates - 25% above stock prices
5	Duplicates - 20% above stock prices
13.06	All percentage premiums for samples and duplicates shall be paid within one month of the commencement of the season.
13.07	Incorporation cf Cost of Living Bonuses: As soonas incorporationof the cost of living bonuses into existing piece rates is adopted in the Ciiy of Montreal the parties hereto shall immediately incorporate the cost cf living bonuses into existing piece rates in the City of Toronto.
14.	WAGE ADJUSTMENT
14.01	In the event the costcf livingshould change substantially during the course of any year either above or below the Cost of Living Index published by Statistics Canada then either party, may give the other party 30 days notice in writing of its desire to adjust wage rates in the Industry. If the parties are unable to reach accord, either as to whether the adjustment should be made or as to the amount of the adjustment the matter shall be referred to the Impartial Chairman whose decision shall be final and binding on both parties.
14.02	The Employers and the Union agree that any Employer wishing to made adjustments to wages csf their Employees, (which adjustments may only be make to the wages of the Employers’ highest earning Employees) must first meet with the Union representative to discuss the matter. The Employer shall then meet with the applicable Employee to discuss the possible wage adjustment but only in the presence of the Union representative. The wages will be adjusted as agreed to by the Employer, Employee and Union representative, but if no agreement is reached, theUnion representative shall have final authority to decide the matter. In cases where there is no settlement after five days cf negotiations, the Union shall request the services cf the Union engineer. Any wage adjustment that is implemented without complying with the foregoing is null and void and the applicable Employee shall be compensated for any improperly adjusted wages.
15.	SYSTEM OF WORK
15.01	One system of work, either piece-work or week-work shall prevail in any craft in any one factory of an Employer.
15.02	If any Employer elects to change the system of work in any craft in his shop from piece-work to week-worker from week-work to piece-work, the new system shall prevail in such craft in his factory for at least two full consecutive seasons.
16.	BASIS OF PRICE SETTLEMENTS
16.01	Thebasis of price settlements on piecework shall be as follows:
i) The prices to be paid toeperators and finishersshall be CL'-sd upon a defined bo<fy basis of piecework according to established categories and prices;
jjj The price to be paid to pressers, under-pressers and fur * tailors shall be Axed according to established categories arid prices.
16.02	The Union or an Employer may request a revision of a category or categories at intervals of not less than twelve (12) months and in any event prior to the commencement of a season, and notwithstanding tbeprovisions of Article 16,01 of this Agreement, any question which may arise as to whether the garments of an employer have been assigned to the proper categories shall, in default of Agreement between the parties hereto be referred for determination to the Jhpflrtaal Chairman and shall not constitute a ground for refusal by either of the parties hereto to commence work at the beginning of a season.
17.	SHOP CHAIRMAN AND PRICE COMMITTEES
17.01	The anployees in each shop shall,at a regular meetingconvened at
the instance of the Union, but not during business hours elect:
i)	A Shop Chairman, whoshall deal and negotiatewith the Employer on behalf of the employees.
ii)	Erine Committees in the various crafts, who with the Shop Chairman, shall settle prices with the Employer on behalf of the employees.
iii)	The Employer Shall compensate the Price Committees for loss of time if prices are settled at the Employer's requestduringworktng
hours when the shop is in operation.
9
17.02	The Shop Chairman shall be entitled to collect Union Dues during business hours, but so as not to disturb the business of the Employe
17.03	It is agreed that the Chairperson is to be the last-person laid cff due to lack of work, providing he can do the work.
18.	PRICE SETTLEMENTS
18.01	At the commencement of the season, pieceworkprices shall, subject to the provisions cf Article 16.02, be settled for all crafts before any worker commences work.
subsequent to the commencementof the season, the parties are unable to agree upon any piece-work price, the workers may be requested by the Employer to work pending the settlement of the price, but in that event the workers shall be entitled to receive the price demanded by the Union, and such price shall remain the settled price for such work, unless another price is settled between the parties hereto or the matter is submitted to the Impartial Chairman within fourteen (14) days after the worker has started, to work.
19. PRICE LISTS
19.01	All piece-workprice lists shall be posted conspicuouslyand with easy access of the Employees in the factory.
Copies of all settled piece-work prices and adjusted week-work rates shall be furnished by the Employer to the Union at the commencement of each season.
20. MINIMUM PAYMENT FOR PART OF A DAY
20.01	Any worker called into work at8:00 a.m, on any regular working day shall receive a minimum cl four (4) horns work for that day, or payment in lieu thereof attheir regular rate cf wages. Any worker called to work at 1:00 p.m. on any regular working day shall receive a minimum c£ three hours' work for that day, or payment in lieu thereof at the irregular rate of wages. The Employer shall give a minimum of four horns' notice whenever workers are to be sent home early.
10
doakcon
21. HOLIDAYS
21.01	No Employee shall be compelled to work on any legal or religious holiday.
21.02	Employees shall receive payment, calculated in the manner hereinafter set forth, for ten legal holidays, fowit, orfor the days on which any of the legal holidays are observed.
New Years’ Day Good Friday Victoria Day
Canada Day labour Day Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day	Boxing Day	Civic Holiday
Easter Monday
21.03	No worker shall qualify for payment for each of the holidays enumerated in Article 21.02 unless he has been at work on the last working day beffcoe and the first working day after each of the said holidays if his attendance at work is required by his Employer, provided that no worker shall be disqualified forpaymentbecauseofnon-attendanceat work on either of such days by reason c£:
i)	his observance cf a religious holiday;
ii)	illness, unless the absence is due to illness which has been continuous ear 3 months in which event the Employeeshall not be paid fcr the holiday;or
Hi) if he absentshimself from work with the consent of his Employer.
An Employee receiving benefits from the U.l.C. shall bepaid for part only of the legal holiday which is not covered by the Unemployment Insurance, soastogivethe Employee the sameamountforthe lqjil holiday as if such Employee'had worked.
21.04	A pieceworker who qualifies for payment for a holiday as herein before set forth shall receiveone-fiftli of one week's pay on the basis of such worker’s annual earnings fir the preceding calendar year in which the holiday occurs or as provided in the provisions of theEmolovmenfc Standards Act, RS.O. 1970 as amended. In the event there are no records for a foil preceding calendar year, than the average earnings for the four (4) weeks immediately precedingthe holiday shall beused to determine the rate of pay by dividing the gross pay for such four (4) weeks by the number of days worked to d etermine the rate of pay for one day.
ii -
In the event four (4) weeks' record is riot available, then the average daily earnings shall be deemed to be the same as the average daily earnings cf an employee of the Same firm <£ comparable ability doingthe same work.
21.05	A week-worker who qualifies for payment for a holiday as herein before set forth shall be paid one day's pay calculated on the basis of his weekly rate of pay.
21.06	An employee.who atthe date of executioncf this Agreement, receives payment for legal holidays other than those enumerated Article 21.02, notwithstanding the provisions cf this Clause, shall continue to receive payment thereof.
22. LEAVE OF ABSENCE
22.01	Employees will be granted two (2) days' leave of absence with pay upon the death of a member cf his immediate family, provided the employee loses time on a regularly schedule work day. The pay will be1 calculated on the same basis as holiday pay. At the request of the Employer, the employee shall produce proof cf death cf the person involved. Immediate shall be defined as spouse, child, father, mother, brother, sister, mother-in-law, and father-in-law. An employee must have worked in the same plant for at least two (2) months prior to the granting of such leave and have been member of the Union for one (l)year to qualify for the leave. Employees shall be entitled to only one (l)paid day bereavement leave if the death occurs outside of Canada.
22.02	It is agreed that workers ■?/;«//havejob protection for21 dayswhen attending a funeral away from the city, which requires extensive travelling.
22.03	At the written request of the Union, an Employer shaJl grant a leave of absence for an Employee without pay, but without loss of seniority and other benefits provided by this Agreement,to attend Union business o r other activities provided the Employee can be replaced with an equally skilled Employee. Such leave of absencenot to exceed one Employee at any one tune.
Requests for leave of absence must be made to the Employee's supervisor and, if granted, such leave cf absence will be confirmed, in writing, and without pay cr any other monetary benefit under the provisions c£ the Agreement. Leave cf absence, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be permissive only, and shall be understood to mean an absence from work requested, in writing, by the Employee on the form provided for such purpose and consented to, in writing, by the Employee's Supervisor covering a permitted period of time for personal reasons Leave of absence will not be
12-
d oak-con
granted to acceptother employments any kind. The Company agrees, as' matter of policy, to attempt to cooperate with Employees with respect to leaves absence for personal reasons, wherever practical.
Form of Leave Of Absence:
____________________________Is herebygranted leave <±absence from
________________to_________________without pay or any other form
of monetary benefit. This leavewill not be extended unless it is in writing.
____________________________must return to work on___________
Dated at_______________this________day of____________19	•	.
Employer
Employee
Copy for union Copy for Employer Copy fix Employee
-13-
23. VACATION
Every Employee, save as hereinafter provided, who is a member of the Union andwho is employed by a Member ofthe Association, shall receive two (2) weeks annual vacation with pay based ori'fbtir percent (4%) of the gross amount which he or she has earned during the fifty weeks preceding the date designated for the commencement of the vacation period in each year.
23.02	The parties hereto shall determine, prior to May 1st, ineachyear, the period in which vacations be taken during the currency of this Agreement. Vacation period shall be between the first Monday in July and the 15th day of August of the sameyear.
23.03	An Employee, as of the date of the commehiement of the Vacation period, who has been continuously employed for two (2) or more years by one or more members of the Association and who has been continuously a member in good standing ofthe Union fortwo(2) ormoreyears, shallreceive three (3) weeks annual vacation with pay, based on six percent (6%)of the grosswages which he orshe has earned during the fifty (SO) weeks preceding the date designated for the commencement of the vacation period, provided that any such employee who ceases to be employed by a Member of the Association and becomes employed by one who is not a Member of the Association during any particular year shall receive four percent (4%) of the gross amount which he or she has earned during the portion of the year so
worked for a Member of the Association.
23.04	Any Employee entitled hereunto to three (3) weeks' vacation shall receive two (2)of the said weeks consecutively during the period designated for vacation as herein provided and the third week shall be between Christmas and New Year of any year.
24.	HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE
24.01	It is agreed to maintain a Elealth and Safety Committee in accordance with the Elealth and Safety act of the Province of Ontario.
25.	CLOAKMAKERS HEALTH AND WELFARE FUND
25,01	The Toronto Cloakmakers’ Health and Welfare Fund shall be administered by the Union under the supervision of the Board of Trustees appointed in equal numbers by each of the parties hereto.
14
25.02	Effective the firstMonday in July, 1993 to the last day cf June 1995, the members cf the Association shallhave a moratorium cf payments to the Health and Welfare Fund.
25.03	The parties agree that they will prepare and execute agreements, regulations,declaration of trust as a m recaseary toaffectuato the terms and purposes of the parties hereto as expressed in this dase. Such agreements, regulationsand trust dedaratims shall provide that the Board of Trustees or other body administeringthe said Fund shall be authorized i n its sole discretion upon such basis as it deemsdesirableand to the extent permitted by law to transfer or mingle the assets of and or to mergeany other benefit, funds now existing or hereafter established and provided for in Collective Bargaining Agreements with the International Ladies' Garment Workers1 Union car an aFRliafe* thereof with the Toronto Cloakmakers’ Health and Welfare Fund.
25.04	Employers’ contributions to the Toronto Cloakmakers’ Health and Welfare Fund, if and when reinstated, shall be made monthly and not later than the 15th day of the following month. In the event of default by an Employer, the Impartial Chairman is authorized to require more frequent payment where the Employerlia.. a d cf late payments or where in the opinion afthelmpartial Chairman othercircumstancesrequire more frequent, payment Payments to the 'Toronto Cloakmakers' Health and Welfare Fund aretobe forwarded to the Union QQ5bssat33 CEnil Street, Toronto. Ontario, M5T INI
25.05	The parties hereby agree that Sick Benefits will be increased to $135,00 per week effective October 1, 1993.
25.06	It is agreed that in the case of illness, the employee’s job is protected fora period cf six (6) months of continuous absence.
25.07	The parties further agree that if an enplqyee is sick for five consecutivedaysandsupplies proper medicalinformation, thatemployee will be entitled to one week c£ sick benefits, as per the normal application procedure, Hiis does not apply far employees who are hospitalized. Such hospitalized employee is entitled to claim skk banrfLt from day one of their stay nthe hospital, providing proper medical information is supplied.
25.08	it is agreed that a worker wil receive a full day's pay if injured in the shop. Payment for this day would be paid to the worker from the Sick Benefit Fund.
25.00	It is agreed that rules and ragulaticns will be made and changed from time to time by the Board cf Trustees of the said Funds. These rules
-15-
and regulations of the Board of Trustees shall be the guideline for obtaining benefits.
26.10	It is agreed that the Eyeglass Benefits will be increasedas cf October 1, 1993 to $120.00 every 2 years.
25.11	Effective October 11 1993, the Drug Plan will cover for-and their immediatefamily (spouse,children) to a maximum of $850,00 per year
per family.
25.16 Dental Plan: Effective October 1, 1993 the Dental Plan will cover members and their spouse on a 50-50 basis fora maximum of $750.00 yearly. Rules and regulations will be the same as in the Dress and Sportswear Welfare Fund,
26.	RETIREMENT FUND
The parties	tinue the maintenance of the
Retirement Fund established in the Industry pursuant to the Agreement between them dated July 1, 1948, for EhpLoyees in the Industry who are members cf the Union and who are employed by members of the Association.
26.02	Each Employer shall contribute to such fund an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the total wages payable fcy such Employer to all of his factoiy employees, both Union and non-Union, excepting foremen, designers, shippers and stock-keepers.
26.03	The parties heretoagreethat contributions to the Fund shallbeacme due and payable monthly during the currency of this Agreement.
26.04	The parties hereto agree that they will execute such further Agreements and Declarations ofTrust as may firm time to timebe necessary to effectuate the terms and purposes of this Clause.
26.05	On or about July 1 of every year a representative of the Cloak Association and a representative cf the Union shall ne^t to review the Annual increase for the pensioners. As a principle, the pension will be increased by 75% cf the Consumer Price Indexfor Canada fortheyear as of the month of June, providingthefundisaetuarily sound, "herepresentatives of the Union and the Association shall endeavour to evaluate whether the fund can affordsuch an increase.If the parties are unableto mutually agree on the amount of the annual increase, the fund's auditorswlll be asked to prepare a report for this purpose cnly to determine whether 75% cf the CPI is financially feasible, The representatives of the Union and the Association
-16 -	cloak, con
will abide by the written recommendation of the fund’s auditors for the July 1, increase. Both parties agree that the financial viability of the retirement fund is of paramount concern. Such agreed upon increase will apply to the current pensioners’ chequesbeginning the month cf July of every year.
It is agreed that Pension Reciprocity for all I.L.G.W.U. members be written into the Toronto Cloak and Suit Retirement Fund Trust Agreement.
26.07 Further to the Collective Agreement and the parties hereto effective the fret; day of October 1980, the Regulations of the Toronto Cloak and suit employeesRetirement Fund shall be amended to include the following:
Enployees who have been employedtwenty out of thirty years, with the last ten years continuous, and has reached sixty-five years of age, or is unable to work and has reached the age of fifty-five immediately prior to retirement, and provided that such employee is a member of the Union and has been employedby a member of the Association, such Employee shall be entitled to a full pension.
27.	PAYMENT TO THE RETIREMENT FUND
27.01	All contributions to the retirement fund as herein described shall be paid monthly and no laterthan the fifteenth (15)day cfthe followingmonth, for which the contribution is being made.
27.02	It is understood and agreedthat the failureofan Employ erto pay the amounts due or to file the required statements with the Union, asprovided fer under the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed a breach bf this Agreement. The Union may proceed under the arbitration provisions of this Agreement againsttheEmployer foran award directing payments and filing of statements by the Employer. If the Impartial Chairman issues an award,, he may also direct that the Employer shall pay liquidated damages to the Union m an amount which the Impartial Chairman shall determine (which, is deemed liquidated damagessinoetheexactamountisdifficulttoascertain) forhis failureto remit payments and file the required statementswith the Union when due.
27.03	Thelmpartial Chairman may also direct that the Employer shall pay two percent (2%) for each monthly payment from the date when it becomes due, and the costs of any investigation made to determine the amount due and lawyers fees and expenses incurred by the Union, in'connection with the arbitration proceedings and which may reasonably be incurred ty it in connection with any action or proceeding to confirm his award.
17
27.04	National Retirement Fund: it is agreed that a National Retirement Fund be discussed for the purpose of administering the I.L.G.W.U. Retirement Fund across Canada and to, eventually, equalize payment to all menbers of the I.L.G.W.U, across Canada.
27.05	Conditions cf Payment: All monks payable to the Toronto Cloak Industry Retirement Fund, and the Vacation Fund, provided for in this Agreement shall be paid into the existing office ofthe Fund, presently a 1444 AdelaideSt West, Toronto, Ontario not. later than the 15thday of the month which said money be due. The Union shall have the right to examine the ledgers and accounts of thedifferent funds fort he purpose of assuring itself that payments are made by Employers in accordance with foregoing. It is further agreed that the Union or Association may apply collection and/or arbitration procedures in order to effect collection of contributions overdue to the Retirement, Health and Welfare and Vacation Fund m case cf delinquency beyond two (2) months.
27.06	In the event Arbitration proceduresarerequired,theEmployermust abide by the decision of the arbitrator within forty-eight (48) hours cf the said decision. Failure to do so would entitle the Union without prejudice to any other recourse available in law to cause cessation of work in the plant c£ the Employer, and the Employer shall compensate his employees for the time lost during said cessation at the Employees’regular rates of pay. It is further agreed that the Union shall have the right to assure itself that the Employers are complying with the terms of this Agreement regarding payment made to the Benefit Funds. The Union may, in oonoert with the Association request that an examination of the Employer’s wage records of factory employees be made under the direction of the auditorsof the Benefit Funds and members cf the Association hereby agree to make such records mailable forthwith upon request.
27.07	Theparties hereto agree that ccntributims required to be made by the Employers to any Fund under th is Collective Agreement shall be deemed and considered to be wages of the employees.
27.08	It is agreed to implement the payment of $13.00 per year per retired msnbar for the Death Benefit.
27.09	It is agreed that the Union vill adninisterthe Retirement Fund, and all files, equipment be held by the Union.
27.10	It is agreed that clauses 4, and 10 be inootpocated into the rules and regulations of the Funds:
18
clook-con
Clause 4 Members with 30. years cf service b e allowed to retire at 60 years of age.
Clause 10 Memberswho leave the Industry with 25 years c£ secviaeto cbtain full-,pension at normal retirement age.
28.	RECORDS
28.01	The Trustees of the Benefits Fundsshall, attherequest oftheUnion, have the auditors of the benefit Funds, examine the payroll records of the employees to ascertain if the Employers h ave made the contributions to the Toronto Cloak Health and Welfare Fund and the payroll records of all factory employees both Union and non-Union, excepting foremen, designers and stockkeepers, for the purpose of ascertaining that the Employers have made the contributions to the Retirement Fund in Accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
29.	BENEFITFUNDS
29.01 The parties hereto, agree that the Board of Trustees of the Benefit Funds may at ary tune during the terms of this Agreement deal with the subject of increasing existing benefits payable thereunder to the employees, provided that any change or.changes will not impair the financial stability or reserves of the funds or will not alter the financial obligations of the members of the Association to such lUnds other than as set forth in this Agreement. For greater clarity, the Benefit Fund as. referred to in this Agreement shall be the Retirement Fund, Vacation Pay Fund, and Health and Welfare Fund (formerly tbs Sick Benefit) and Severance Fund.
SO. JOINT COMMITTEE
■30.01 , Tjhe -parties hereto agree to appoint a Joint Committee coipcsad d alt equal number bf representatives fern the Employers and-from the Union ______~,.uy it snail be to:
i) Study ways and means of stimulatingand promoting buyers’ interest in the Toronto market for the purpose cf increasing production in the Industry, and for the mutual benefit of the parties hereto;
jj) Have the right to deal with any dispute of any manner of kind whatsoever which may arise between the said parties or between any members of the said parties.
19
31.	AUTOMATION
31.01 An Employer desiring to introduce new machinery can do so on condition th a t his Employeesdo not sufferihe loss of his or herjob or suffer the lass of his orher earnings, and if retraining s necessary, orrequired for any such Ehplcyae, the earnings cf sudhEftpLc^s shall be maintained during the training period. The Union and the Association ^all determine the length of time of such trainingperiod.
32.	TIME CLOCKS
32.01	Each Employer shall install and maintain in good working order, upon his premises, a time punch clock on which all his Employees shall be required to record their starting and finishing time of work each day upon which work is performed.
33.	WORKING TOOLS
33.01	Every Employer shall supply his Employees with sewing machines driven by electric power and other requisite working implements.
34.	EMPLOYER WORKING
N o Employer shall perform any of the operations of operating, trimming, cutting, pressing, finishing or tailoring.
35.	HEAD CUTTER
35.01	This Agreement and the terms thereof shall not apply to a head cutter, namely, an QipCLcyae who is employed exclusively as a supervisor over cuttingoperationsand who doesrrfc himself engage in or perform any marking, cutting or trimming.
36.	APPRENTICESHIP
36.01	The Association, after consultation with the Union, shall be entitled to establishaschemeof apprenticeship in anycrafit or crafts in the Industry provided that in ease of disagreement between the pa rties as to any feature of suchsche/77e,themattermaybereferredby either party to the Impartial Chairman.
20
37.	WORKER ENGAGED IN ANOTHER FACTORY
37.01	No permanent Employee shal 1 engage in work in any .factory or shop inthelndustry otherthan the factory ofhis own Employer, provided that an employeemay work temporarily, either overtineorduringslack periods, in the factory cf another Employer, who has a Collective Agreement with the International Ladies' Garment Workers’ Union or a local thereof.
38.	OUTSIDE W ORK
38.01	Every garment (fix purpose c£ this Clause defined as a garment manufactured by the Ladies Cloak and Suit Industry as defined in paragraph I cf Appendix E of Regulation 244 of Raised Regulations of Ontario, 1970 made by the Minister of Labour under the Industrial Standards Act) with which an Employer deals shall be completely manufactured in the inside factory and upon the premises of such Employer.N o company^all deal with or be financially interested in dealing with or disposing of any garment not so manufactured by the Employer’s inside factory as herein provided, whether as a manufacturer, jobber or otherwise, either directly or through aHy interest in any other outside concern.
33.	EMPLOYER AND CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY
No work shall be contracted out unless the inside shop is fully employed. If work has to be contracted out the Union will be notified in advance. If the Union allagse that there, is a violation to-this Clause, it has the right to grieve to the Impartial Chairman. TTbtd impartial Chairman has the authority to penalize the offending Company tm percent (10%) of the value ofthework contracted out deemed by the Impartial Chairman to be in violation cf this Clause, these monies to be paid to the Retirement Fund within one month afjudgement.
39.02 Each Employer shall be jointly and severally responsible together with each contractor and subcontractor to whom each Employer shall send or furnish work falling under thejurisdiction cf this Agreement, for the payment of wages, and for payments into the Welfare Funds .and for due and proper compliance with working conditions as set out in this Agreement. Each Employerdall deductafc fhesourceall payments dueto such Welfare Fundscctyering the Employeescf each contractor and subcontractor he deals with, and shall remit the same to the Trustees of such Welfare Funds by tie first day of the followingmonth.
21
40. NO WORK TO SHOP WHERE STRIKE IS 3N PROGRESS
40.01	No Employer shall directly or indirectly either give work to or purchase any garments from or do or perform any work or sarvioss for or supply merchandise (whether completed or partly completed) to any manufacturer or jobber against whom the Union isconductinga strike.
41. DIVISION OF WORK AND SENIORITY
41.01	Seniority is defined as the length of an Employee's uninterrupted service with the company.
41.02	Where labour requirements are to be reduced for a period of less than five (5) working days, consideration will first be given to the principle of equal division of work in each department affected. Otherwise company seniority will govern, provided such employee(s) remaining at work is (are) sufficiently capable of doing such work.
41.03 Where labour requirements are to be reduced forapericd of five (5) working days or lcnger, company seniority will govern provided such employees) remaining at work is (are) sufficiently capahleof doing such work.
F or any layoff that may occur during the course of the season as outlined in this article, the employer shall be obligated to inform all affected employees by 1:00 p.m, ofthe day preceding the layoff-For clarity purposes, this article shall apply for all lay-offs - both very short tern and long term during the season only.
41.0a At the end of the season, the employ ershallbe obligated to provide work so that the affected employee shall complete a full work week prior to such lay-off,
42. INDIVIDUAL CONTRACTS
42.01	NoEmployershallmake any individualcontract or arrangementwith an employee, nor shall he exact, or accept from any employee any cash deposit or other security, rvor shall he enter into any Agreement with any individual employee guaranteeing him any specified period cf employment.
22
doakcon
43.	VISITS TO EMPLOYEES
43.01	A duly authorized officer or representative of the Union shall at all reasonable times have accessto the place of business of each Employer for the purpose (which he shall disclose) of dealing with any specific complaint, condition or other matters arising out of pertaining to this Agreement or to itsoperationorto the relations of the parties hereto, and such representative and the Employer shall together co-operateas to enable any such matter to be investigated, dealt with and disposed of assatisfactorily:and expeditiously as possible, but not so as to disturbthe business of the Employer.
44.	PROHIBITION OF HOMEWORK
44,01	The parties hereto shall, forthwith after the execution cf this agreement,jointly petition the Minister of Labour fcr the Province c£ Ontario, praying that he instruct the Inspector:
i) To refrain firm issuing any additional permits under the Act for the production by homeworkers of any cloaks, mats, suits, jackets, reefers, skirts, windbreakers, leather and suede garments, and rainwear of all descriptions and simulated fur and pile fabric garments for women and children cf the sort of description manufactured ly the Members of the association, and to cancel such Parrotts as have heretofore been issued for the production by homeworkers of any such garments. And further praying that the Minister securethe enactment of such further or other legislation as may be necessary to eliminate all homework in connection with the production of such garments.
45.	ARBITRATION
45.01	In the event of the occurrence of any dispute respecting the interpretation, application, proper observance or performance cf any clause t cf this Agreement; including any case arising out cf discharge, such dispute shall, in the first instance, be negotiated between the Association or their Appointee of the Association (or his deputy) and theManager of the Union (or her deputy) and any decisicn mutually agreed upon by such Executive PjiBCttr and Manager (ortheir deputies) shall be binding upon each of the parties hereto.
45.02	It is agreed-that there be three (-3) arbitrators named, namely; Martin Teplitsky, Kenneth Swan and Ross Kennedy. The Grievor will have the right to cross out one of the three Arbitrators, then the other party will cross out
23
one cf the remaining two Arbitrators, and th e one that is left shall be the Arbitrator.
45.03	If the Association of their Appointee and the manager of the Union (or their deputies) tail to agree, the dispute shall be referred €brdecision to our selected Impartial Chairman according to our means of selection in Article 45,02.
In the event the parties are unable to agree to an Impartial Chairman, the Minister of Labour will appointoneand the cost will be home equally by the parties.
45.04	The decision of the Impartial Chairman shall be binding upon all parties and persons concerned.
45.05	Any dispute to be referred to such Impartial Chairman shall be reduced to writing by the party claiming to be aggrieved and a copy dial! forthwith be furnished to the Impartial Chairman and totheotherparty, and any decision rendered by t h e Impartial Chairman upon such disputeshall be fully complied with within twenty-four (24) hours of such decision.
45.06	The Impartial Chairman dell also deal with and decide upon all other natters which maybe referred to him for decision under this Agreement.
46.	NO STRIKE, STOPPAGE OR LOCKOUT
46.01	Pending the negotiations or Arbitration of any dispute under this Agreement., neither party, nor any member of either cf the parties hereto, shall institute orengage in any interruption of work, lockout, stoppage or strike againstthe otherparty or any matter of such other party.
47.	PICKET LINE
47.01 it is agreed between the parties hereto that the refusal to cross a Union Picket Line to a picketed shop, cr any branch, subsidiary, affiliate or allied shop, or contractor or sub-contractor, or shop manufacturing incidentals or accessories fur such shop, by a Member «£ the Union, shall not be considered a violation cf this Agreement either on the part of the Union cr the Members of the Union.
This Clause shall not apply to an Employer or his shop which have
or indirectly as above mentioned,
-24-
doakxon
with the picketed shop.
48.	UNION LABEL
48.01	The parties hereto agree that the Employers shall continue to use the Union Labfil tipon the same terms, conditions and practice as heretofore,
48.02	It is agreed that the Union Label be upgraded, changed and discussed to establish a more comprehensive plan for the use of control and advertisement of our product.
49.	RECOGNITION OF ASSOCIATION
49.01	The Union re-affirms its policy of entering into Collective Agreements on an Induatry-widebasis and, in recognition of the factthat the Association is the representative organization of manufacturers in the Industry in Toronto, the Union covenants with the Association that it will continue to pursue such policy to the utmost extent consistent with ita legal obligations under the provisions of such labou'r relations laws as may from time to time be applicable to it.
In the event that the Union shall enter into a Collective Agreement with an employer who is not a member of the Association or a party to this Agreement, the Union shall forthwith notify and submit a copy thereof to the Association, and if the terms, of such Agreement are more favourable to the Employer than those set out in this AgreSihSnf, the Union shall grant to the Association and to its members such modification of the terms of this Agreement as it may be necessary to place the Association and its members in an equally favourable position.
50.	LIST OF ASSOCIATE MEMBERS
50.01	The Association shall furnish to the Union a list of its members firm time to time, together with a signed copy of a document, in the form hereto annexed, signed by each of such members, whdreih they agree to carry out the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
51. LIST OF UNION MEMBERS
51,01	The Union shall furnish to the association during the month of January in each year a list of its members showing‘the name, data of bkAh
25
(if available}, the year and the date on which such member is a member cf the Union in good standing.
52. R.S.L. AND EDUCATION FUND
52,01	B.S.L, classes to be established in shops where workers are interested. Education Fund fobe established:
j)	Each Employer in the Association to contribute 1 cent per hour per
member. Payments will bemadeyearly.
ii) 1 Ed ucafionleave be granted to selected members without loss of job seniority.
i'ii) More advanced training and job promotion and jab posting be implemented. Whenever possible, due a M on leaveshall begranted, providing individual craftsman can be replaced forduration of such course. This applies to ii) as well.
53. DURATION
53.01	This agreement shall be effective from the firstday of July 1993 and shall be and shall remain and continue in full faros and effect to June 30, 1995, and continue in fares thereafter from year toy ear unless either party hereto shall give at least ninety (90) days’ notice in writing to theotherparty hereto cf its desire to terminate or modify the Agreement on the 30th day of June following such written notice. The parties will meet within fifteen (15) days after such notice to commence negotiations fcr a new Agreement
54. APPLICATION
54.01	This Agreement shall extend to and shall apply totheentireProvince cf Ontario.
55. AMENDMENTS TO SCHEDULE
55.01	The parties hereto agree to apply to the Department ofLabour for the Province of Ontario under the Industrial StandardsAct for Amendments to the Schedule for the Ladies' Cloak and Suit Industry to increase the minimum rates of wages and rate of wages for overtimework provided for in Sections 10 and 11 of the Schedule, and to establidi a scheme cf
- 26 -	doatcon
apprenticeship for this Industry and generally to follow the rates and classificationsset out in the Schedulefor the Ladies’ Cloak and Suit Industry for the Province of Ontario.
56. MISCELLANEOUS
56.01	It is agreed that a copy of the contract to be given to all manbers upon request.
56.02	It is agreedthat all Rules and Regulations concerning: Sick Benefit, Retirement Benefit, Severance Benefit, Eyeglasses Benefit, and Death Benefit, be included in the Collective Agreement.
57. STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
57.01	Upon request the following records shall be made available by
Employers to piece-workers: the quantity of units worked upon, the style number of each unit,the rate of pay per unit.
57.02	All other workers shall receive with their pay envelopes,on or in, whichever system the Employer 'uses, the following particulars: the <-fatr» cf pay, name affirm, regular hours and overtime, wages earned, the deductions from the wages, net amount of wages,
28
doak«on