THE COMPLETE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
NYGARD INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIPARTS 2
-at-
1340 NOTRE DAME AVENUE WINNIPEG. MANITOBA R3E 0P4
-AND-
LOCAL288 OF
UNITE HERE! MANITOBA JOINT COUNCIL 978 NOTRE DAME AVENUE WINNIPEG, MANITOBA R3E ON3
UNIFIES
HERE!s
APRIL 1,2005 TO MARCH31,2008
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE I- DEFINITIONS ARTICLE2- MANAGEMENTRIGHTS ARTICLE3- UNION RECOGNITION ARTICLE 4- UNION SECURITY ARTICLES - MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLE6-CHECKOFF ARTICLE7- STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS ARTICLE8 - BULLETIN BOARDS ARTICLE9 -TOOLSAND EQUIPMENT ARTICLE I 0 - TRAINING SCHOOLS ARTICLE II-PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES ARTICLE 12 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ARTICLE 13 - LAYOFFAND RECALL ARTICLE 14- DISCHARGE ARTICLE 15- BRIDGINGOF SERVICE ARTICLE 16- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME ARTICLE 17 - ANNUAL VACATION ARTICLE 18 - PAID HOLIDAYS
5
6
6
7
8
9
10
I 0
10
11
12
12
14
15
16
16
19
20
TABLE OF CONTENTS- continued
ARTICLE 19- CITIZENSHIP DAY
ARTICLE 20 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
ARTICLE 21 -WAGERATES
ARTICLE22 - PAY DAY
ARTICLE23 -WORKERS COMPENSATION
ARTICLE 24 - INCENTIVE SYSTEM AND WAGE RATES
ARTICLE25 - HEALTHAND WELFARE
AND RETIREMENTBENEFITS
ARTICLE26 - UNION LABEL
ARTICLE27 - CONTRACTINGOUT
ARTICLE28 - SAVING CLAUSE
ARTICLE29- DURATION AND REVISION OFAGREEMENT
ARTICLE30- DENTALPIAN NYGARD PRIVACYCODE
22
23
27
27
28
28
33
34
35
35
36
36
37
This Agreement made as of the It day of^b Ull. ^A.D. 2006
vl
BETWEEN:
NYGARD INTERNATIONALPARTNERSHIPARTS 2
carrying on business at 1340 Notre Dame Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E OP4 (Hereinafter called "the Manufacturer"
THE FIRST PART,
-and-
LOCAL288 of the UNITE HERE!
MANITOBA JOINT COUNCIL 978 Notre DameAvenue Winnipeg, Manitoba,R3E ON3 (Hereinafter called "the Union")
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS:
A.	Th 3 Manufacturer is engaged inthe manufacture of ladies' sportswear and other garments at the City of Wnnipeg, in tha Provinceof Manitoba;
B.	The Union is composed of workers engaged in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will from time to time be employed by the Manufacturer in its factory; and
C.	The parties hereto are desirous of promoting the principle of collective bargaining, the avoidance of industrial conflicts, and the regulation of relations between the Employer and Employees governed by the said Agreement, for a term and period, the whole as more fully hereinafter referred to:
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the
parties hereto hereby agree as contained within:
4
ARTICLE I- DEFINITIONS
1.01	Inthis Agreement:
(a)	"Arbitrator" shall mean one of the
persons named in the Article dealing with Grievance procedure.
(b)	"Average Hourly Earnings" means the average amount per hourwhich an Employee shall have earned attributableto his or her production during regular working hours.
(c)	"Average Hourly Pay" shall mean "The Average Hourly Earnings" for each Employee for the preceding six (6) month period calculated the first day of January and July of each year.
(d)	"Member of Union" means a Union Memberwho is not in arrears for more than one (li^onth in the payment of dues and assessments to the Union.
(e)	"Minute Value Yields" shall mean the incentive rates of wages as set out inArticle24.12.
(0	"Probationary Employee" means an Employee of the
Manufacturerwho has not completed the probationary period as provided herein.
means an Employee of the Manufacturerwho has successfully completed the probationary period as provided herein.
(h)	"Seniority" means length of service in the bargaining unit and shall be applied on a bargaining wide basis. Shall be applied as set out in other provisions cf this Agreement.
(i)	"Trainee" means a newly hired Employee, who has no job related experience in respect of the position, func-
5
or job for which he or she is hired by the Manufacturer.
(j)	"Vestibule Training" shall mean on the job training of an Employee unskilled for the position in which he or she is hired, so as to provide said Employeewith new specific,job skills.
(k)	"Year of Service" means an Employeeshall havecom-pleted a year's service when they have worked at least ninety-five percentof the regularworking hours during a continuoustwelve month period.
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENTRIGHTS
2.01	The Union recognizes and acknowledges that, in all respects, except to the extent expressly abridged or modified by a specific provision of this Agreement, the management and conduct of the operations of the business, and the employment and direction of the work force, are the responsibility of the Manufacturer, and nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted as limiting the Manufacturer in any way in the exercise of all the rights, powers, authority, and regular and customary functions of management unless otherwise specifically provided for in this Agreement.
2.02	It is understood that it is not the intention that this Agreement shall operate in any way as to restrict the output of production, or impede processes of the Company or Management, but to encourage maximum production with minimum waste and fair and equitable treatment to everyone concerned.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION RECOGNITION
3.01	The Manufacturer recognizes that Union as the sole bargaining agent on behalf of all Regular Employees employed in the factory, including those who clean garments or do other work within Union jurisdiction, save
6
and except for Supervisors, Assistant Supervisors, those above the rank of Supervisor, office and related personnel, and persons performing jobs in Shipping, Receiving and Distribution; Mechanical and Maintenance Repairs; Quality Control; Watchmen; Janitorial Services and any otherjobs which now exist or which may be created in the future and which are not primarily production line related.
3.02	The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply to the "ARTS 2", Manufacturer's Notre Dame factory located at1340 Notre DameAvenue, inthe City of Winnipeg, in the Provinceof Manitoba.
ARTICLE 4- UNION SECURITY
4.01	This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective ad-ministrators,Successors, and Assigns.
4.02	It is expressly understood and agreed that in respect of all matters relating to this Agreement, or renewal thereof, or in respect of any related matters, the Manufacturer in its relationships with the Union, shall not be required to consult with or deal with any person other than the Representativeor the Shop Steward.
Where the parties agree it is impractical or inappropriate for the Representativeor the Shop Steward to consult with or deal with the Manufacturer on a particular matter, the Representative may designate another person to consult with or deal with the Manufacturer on the particular matter.
4.03	BANKRUPTCY - The bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or winding-up of the Manufacturer holding trust funds which are deemed at all times to be segregated and the property of the Union in absolute ownership, shall not affect the right of the Union to be paid said funds in priority to any other claimants of the Manufacturer.
4.04	The Manufacturer shall not hereafter make any individual contracts with a Regular Employee, nor exact or accept any cash deposits or other security from a Regular Employee, nor enter into any Agreement with any individual Regular Employee guaranteeing employment.
4.05	The Manufacturer, or anyone acting on behalf of the Manufacturer, shall not discriminate against any Employee by reason of his or her past or present Union activities. The Union, or anyone acting on behalf of the Union, shall not discriminate against the Manufacturer by reason of its past or present activities in relation to the Union.
4.06	The Manufacturer and the Union agree that in the course of their duties Supervisors and Employees shall endeavor to conduct themselves in such a manner as to enhance mutual respect and dignity in the work place.
4.07	The Manufacturer and the Union each further agree that they will not discriminate against any Employee or Applicant for employment because of race, creed, colour, national origin, sex or age of that Employee or Applicant.
4.08	During the currency of this Agreement, the duly authorized Representative of the Union shall have access to the business premises of the Manufacturer as provided herein for the purposes, which shall be disclosed to the Manufacturer, of dealing with any specific complaint, condition, or matter arising out of or pertaining to this Agreement or its implementation or to determine compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5- MISCELLANEOUS
5.01	This Agreement may be amended by written agreement and authorization of both parties or their Successors.
a
5.02	This Agreement is subject to the ratification of the Members of the Union employed in the factory of the Manufacturer.
5.03	The Article and Section Titles are included solely for convenience and shall in no event be so construed as to affect or modify any part of the provisions of this Agreement.
5.04	Wherever, in this Agreement the singular or the masculine has been employed, same shall be deemed to include the plural or feminine gender as the case may be or the context of this Agreement may require.
5.05	Time shall in all respects be of the essence of this Agreement.
5.06	There shall be no differential in pay for equal work between female and male Employees.
ARTICLE 6-CHECK OFF
6.01	The Manufacturer shall deduct from the wages of each Regular Employee who is a Member of the Union, the amount of the regular monthly Membership dues payable by a Member of the Union, and shall remit the amounts so deducted to the Union, in Winnipeg, not later than the fifteenth (15) day of the following month.
6.02	The Manufacturer shall, at the request of the Union, deduct from the wages of an Employee who is a Member of the Union, Initiation Fees and Assessments, and shall remit the amounts so deducted to the Union, in Winnipeg, not later than the fifteenth (15) day of the following month.
6.03	The Union agrees that it shall not be the responsibility of the Manufacturers deduct or collect arrears in dues from any newly hired Employee, who was an Employee of another Manufacturer other than the Manufacturer,
9
and that Initiation Fees, Assessments, deductions which are the responsibility of the Manufacturer to deduct, shall only commence from any such Regular Employee's date of hirewith the Manufacturer.
6.04	The Manufacturer agrees that if the Union provides to the Manufacturer,signed authorization from any individual, authorizingthe deduction of any such arrears which they accumulated while not in the employ of the Manufacturer, the Manufacturerwill so deduct them.
ARTICLE 7- STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
7.01	During the term of this Agreement, the Manufacturer shall not engage in or take part in any lockouts.
7.02	During the term of this Agreement, no Employee shall take part in any official or unofficial industrial action.
7.03	It shall not be considered a breach of this Agreement on the part of the Union or on the part of any individual Employee, if any Employee or Employees refuse to cross any legally established picket line recognized by the Union, or to enter upon the legally picketed premises cf the Manufacturer, or their own volition or by direction of the Union, nor shall such refusal be cause for discharge or discipline.
ARTICLE 8- BULLETIN BOARDS
8.01	The Manufacturer shall provide the Union with Bulletin Boards to be used for the purposes of the Union. No notice shall be posted on such bulletin boards without first receiving the approval of the Production Manager of the Manufacturerwhich approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE 9 - TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
9.01	Scissorswill be supplied by the Manufacturer to Proba-
10
tionary Employees, if required, for the operation of their specific machine. Replacement scissors will be issued to all Employees whenever, in the opinion of the Manufacturer, the scissors require replacing. In order for the Manufacturer to replace the scissors, the old scissors must be turned in. When an Employee,who has been issued scissors terminates his/her employment or is granted a leave of absence, the scissors must be returned to the Manufacturer, or the cost of the scissors shall be deducted from the Employee's final pay cheque.
9.02	Employees who receive tools or equipment shall sign for them and return them on request by the Manufacturer and/or upon termination of employmentorthe cost of same deducted from the Employee's final pay cheque.
ARTICLE I 0 - TRAINING SCHOOLS
10.01	The Manufacturer agrees to notify the Union in writing of all the particularsof any Training School, before such a Training School commences and shall, on an ongoing basis, provide the Union with the names of all such Trainees who have spent a minimum of thirty (30) days in the school.
10.02	An Employee who is hired by the Company as a Trainee, shall not be considered as a Probationary Employee until such Employee has served a maximum of thirty (30) days of training. The Probationary Period shall commence at the end of the Training Periodwithin said time frame of thirty (30) days.
10.03	A Trainee shall have no Seniority Rights during the period of training nor shall a lay off or failure to recall after lay off of a Trainee be the subject of a Grievance.
li
ARTICLE 11 - PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
11.01	All Probationary Employees, whether furnished by the Union, or otherwise obtained, shall be given a reasonable trial by the Manufacturer and after a Probationary Period of four (4) weeks shall be constituted as Regular Employees of the Manufacturer, and shall be entitled to all the rights, privileges and benefits and shall be subject to all conditions and obligations of this Agreement, except as herein specifically exempted therefrom. Any .person employed in a Training School will be considered a Probationary Employee when the person becomes part of the production line.
11.02	A Probationary Employee shall become a Member of the Union after four (4) weeks of employment with the Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 12 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
12.01	A Grievance shall be a controversy between the Company and any regular Employee over the interpretation of or adherence to the terms of this Agreement.
12.02	The Employee may first discuss the complaint with her Supervisor. There will be no Grievance until the Supervisor has had an opportunity to discuss the matterwith the Employee.
12.03	STEP1
If settlement is not reached after the discussion the Grievance shall be submitted in writing to the Production Manager by the Employeewithin five (5)days after the discussion and no laterthan seven (Tjworking days after the Employee's knowledge of the incident giving rise to the Grievance.
The Grievance shall contain:
- a description of the problem and sections of
12
the Agreement allegedly violated.
-	a statement of remedy sought.
-	the date of submission
-	the Employee's signature.
The Production Manager or her designate will respond in writing to the Grievance, within five (5) days of the date of submission, to the Union Representative.
12.04	STEP2
If settlement is not reached under Step I within five (5) days of the Production Manager's response, the Grievance shall be submitted to the Human Resources Department which will respond in writing to the Union, within ten (I0) days after the date of the Production Manager's written response, to the Union Representative.
12.05	STEP3
If settlement is not reached under Step 2 within five (5) days after the response of the Human Resources Department it may be referred by either party to a single Arbitrator.
If the Parties fail to agree upon an Arbitrator within five (5) working days after one Party has served notice on the other Party of its intention to refer the matter to an Arbitrator, each shall name three (3) names to the other to be considered as an Arbitrator.
If the Parties fail to reach agreement on an Arbitrator within five (5)working days after the date of referral to Arbitration, they shall requestthe Minister of Labourto appoint same. When the appointment of an Arbitrator has been concluded, the Arbitrator shall have the power to determine whether the matter before him is arbitral. Having made the determination that the Arbitrator has jurisdiction, the Arbitrator shall hear and determine the
13
difference and shall issue a decision and that decision shall be final and binding upon the Parties.
12.06	The Arbitrator shall only rule on explicit provisions of the Agreement. He shall not have jurisdiction to amend or add to any of the provisions of this Agreement nor to give any decision inconsistentwith the conditions of this Agreement.
12.07	The expenses of the Arbitrator shall be shared equally by the Parties.
12.08	A Griever who fails to present a Grievance to the next higher levelwithin the prescribed time shall be deemed to have abandoned, unless an extension of the prescribed time limits, is agreed upon by the Union and the Manufacturer inwriting.
12.09	For purposes of time frame specified in this article, the word, "days" will refer to working days.
12.10	No Grievance may proceed to Arbitration without the approval of the Representativeof the Union.
ARTICLE 13 - LAY OFF AND RECALL
13.01	In the event of a lay off, the Employees affected will be determined by department seniority and competency as determined by the Manufacturer.
13.02	Inthe event of a lay-off of more than two (2) weeks duration, the Employees who will be affected, shall be given one week's notice of lay-off or pay in lieu of such notice. Pay for in lieu of, shall be calculated at the guarantee hourly rate of such Employee.
13.03	When a lay-off of more than two (2) weeks duration is required, the Manufacturer shall discuss the details with the Union as far in advance of the lay off date as possible.
14
13.04	Employees laid off shall be recalled before any new Employees are hired, provided they are qualified to do the available work. Employees laid off pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 13.02, shall be entitled to at least one week's notice of recall in writing.
13.05	In the event that an Employee obtains work elsewhere while on lay-off, he or she shall not forfeit his or her recall rights.
13.06	In the event that an Employee is laid off he or she shall be given an approximate date of recall.
13.07	The Shop Steward or the designated Shop Committee Member shall be informed of all lay-offs, in excess of one day.
13.08	The Company will endeavor to give every consideration to bumping within a classification depending on the length of service, performance, attendance and quality.
13.09	In the event of a lay off due to the abolishment of an Employees' position, the Company agrees that every effort, where practical, will be made to place the Employee, whose position has been abolished, into another available position within the Bargaining Unit before any new Employees are hired. The Company agrees to give the Employee ten (IO) weeks training to perform the duties of the new position, with their average pay rate.
13.10	In the event of lay off of less than two (2) week duration, the Employeewho will be affected, shall be given four (4) hours notice prior to lay off.
ARTICLE 14 - DISCHARGE
14.01	No Employee shall be discharged by the Manufacturer except for just cause, and provided that notice of the intention to so discharge, where practicable hasprevi-
15
been given to the Union but, if a Regular Employee believes that he or she has been unjustly discharged, he or she may file a Grievance in accordance with the provisions of Article 12. In the event that such discharge is determined not to be for just cause, the Regular Employee shall be reinstated to his or herfor-merjob and be paid infull for loss of earnings.
14.02	An Employee who wishes to terminate his or her employment shall provide the Manufacturer with two (2) week's notice.
ARTICLE 15 - BRIDGING OF SERVICE
15.01	VACATIONS - With respectto vacations, a former Employee's service with the Manufacturer will be bridged upon a subsequent rehire on the provision that the Employee had worked a minimum of four (4) years in the preceding ten (I0) year period and had worked at least 50 percent of the regularworking hours in each of the aforesaid four (4) years.
Provided that a Regular Employee has worked a minimum of three (3) continuous years with the Manufacturer, upon a subsequent rehire by the Manufacturer, said Regular Employee's previous term, to a maximum of ten (IO) years, will be considered with respectto purposes of Seniority, Lay-offs & Recall.
ARTICLE 16 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
16.01	The standard hours of work Monday through Friday shall be forty (40) hours divided between the five consecutive working days of Monday through Friday in the folowing manner:
16
First Shift
Second Shift
Monday 8 hours Tuesday 8 hours Wednesday8 hours Thursday 8 hours Friday 8 hours
6:50 am-320 p.m 6:50 am-3;20 p.m 6:50 am-320 p.m 6:50 am-3:20 p.m
6:50 am-3;20 p.m
3:35 pm-11:50 p.m 3:35 pm-11:50 p.m 3:35 pm-11:50 p.m 3:35 pm-11:50 p.m 3:35 pm-11:50 p.m
16.02	On each of the above specified days, an interval of 30 minutes shall be taken as the lunch period.
16.03	There shall be a rest period of ten (IO) minutes in the first half of the shift and ten (I0) minutes in the second half of the shift, in each day worked, without deduction by the Employer.
16.04	The Manufacturer may request an Employee to work overtime and said Employee shall cooperate with the Manufacturer to provide the work required. No Employee shall be discriminated against in any way for declining to work the requested overtime.
Whenever overtime work is requested, notice shall be given to the Employee at least four (4) hours in advance. The available overtime hours shall be divided equally among those Employeeswho actively work on the overtime operation, wherever same is practical.
16.05	All hours worked in excess of the standard work hours in 16.01 shall be considered overtime and shall be paid for at the premium rate of time and one half (1/2) for each hourworked in excess of the standard work hours worked.
16.06	All hours worked on Saturday shall be paid for at the premium rate of time and one half (*12).
All hoursworked on Sunday shall be paid for at the premium rate of double (X2) time.
17
16.07	Overtime rates shall be paid based on the rate otherwise payable for the work in question plus the premium of one-half (112) time calculated based on Average Hourly Pay.
16.08	Employeesshall not punch in more than 15 minutesbe-fore their start time (before6:50 a.m. or3:35 p.m.) unless authorized by their immediate Supervisor.
i	.
If an Employee is requested in writing by the Manufac-. turer to punch in for work before the designated time, then the Employee will be eligible for overtime after completing8 hoursofwork Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. Regular hours of work will be made available Monday to Friday to that Employee.
16.10	Employees who are requested by the Manufacturer to commence their work day anytime after their regular start time (6:50 am or 3:35 p.m.) Monday to Friday, shall be paid overtime for all hours worked beyond their regularquitting time (3:20 p.m. and 11:50 p.m. Monday to Fridayto a maximumof two (2) overtime hours.
16.11	Premium pay for second shift shall be 15 minutes per day, Monday through Friday, for a total of 1 1/4 hours per week providing the Employeeworks the entire shift.
16.12	No work shall be done after regular working hours if a Union Meeting has been called for the particular night. The Union agrees to notify the Manufacturer, in writing in advance when a Union Meeting will be held, within forty-eight hours.
16.13	All hours worked by an Employee in respect of the inventory of the Manufacturer during regular working hours, shall be paid average hourly earnings. When inventory extends beyond the regularworkday, the work shall be done on a voluntary basis and paid at time and one half (1 112). Every effort, by the Employees, must be made to comply.
18
16.14	All Employees called in to work shall be supplied with at least four (4) hours of continuous work or be paid for at least four (4) hours at their Average Hourly Earnings.
ARTICLE 17 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
17.01	All Vacation Pay provided for herein shall be paid directly to each Employee by the Manufacturer on or before June 30th each year during the currency of this Agreement.
17.02	Employees covered by this Agreement shall be entitled
to an Annual Vacation and Vacation Pay in accordance with the following categories:
(i)	Employees who, at December 31st in any year during the currency of this Agreement, have less than one (I) year of service, shall receive Vacation Pay calculated at the rate of four percent (4%) of their total Gross Earnings which shall include Holiday Pay earned during their period of employment with the Manufacturer for the period ending December 31st in any year, and a vacation on a prorata basis.
(ii)	Employees who at December 31st in any year during the currency of this Agreement, have completed one (1) year or more of service are entitled to two (2) weeks Vacation with pay calculated at the rate of four percent (4%) of their total Gross Earnings with the Manufacturerwhich shall include Holiday Pay earned during the year ending December 31st in any year.
(iii)	Employees who at December 31st in any year during the currency of this Agreement have completed four (4) or more years of service are entitled to three (3) weeks Vacation with pay calculated at the rate of six percent (6%) of their total Gross Earnings with the Manufacturerwhich shall include Holiday Pay earned during the year ending December31st in any year.
19
(iv)	Employees who at December 31st in any year during the currency of this Agreement have completed twelve (12) years or more of service are entitled to four (4) weeks Vacation with pay calculated at the rate of eight percent (8%) of their total Gross Earningswith the Manufacturer which shall include Holiday Pay earned during the year ending December 31st m any year.
17.03	Absences due to lay off or for reasons of Health, Maternity Leave, Leave of Absence, shall not be deducted in the calculation of the numbers of years of service.
17.04	The Manufacturer shall circulate a Vacation Calendar, no later than February 28th of each year, and shall continue to circulate said calendar until March31st of each year. All Employeeswho have vacation entitlement for that coming year, may apply for vacation in accordance with their seniority. The vacation calendar shall indicate the number of Employees who can be spared from each Departmentat any one time, and Employees shall write their names in the blanks on the calendar when it is their turn, according to the seniority list. Once an Employee has so indicated his or her choice, they cannot then change that choice, until the calendar has been fully circulatedwithin the Bargaining Unit.
Employees eligible to take vacation with pay and who are absent from work, at the time the vacation calendar aforesaid is circulated, not of their own volition, shall not forfeit their right to their turn on the seniority list.
ARTICLE 18 - PAID HOLIDAYS
18.01	The following holidays shall be observed and all Employees covered by this Agreement, shall be paid a full normal day's pay for them up to a maximum of eight (8) hours, in any event and regardless of whether such holiday (s) fall on a working day or non-working day of the week or in any non-workingweek.
20
NEWYEARS DAY	LABOUR DAY
GOOD FRIDAY THANKSGIVING DAY VICTORIA DAY (EMPIRE DAY)
CHRISTMAS DAY CANADA DAY (DOMINION DAY)
BOXING DAY	REMEMBRANCE DAY
CIVIC DAY(1ST. MON. IV AUG)
If Canada Day shall fall on a regular work day other than a Monday or a Friday, the date for the observance of said holiday shall be changed, with the consent of a majority of the membership, to either a Monday or Friday of the week in which the said holiday falls.
18.02	Remembrance Day shall be paid regardless of whether or not such holiday shall fall on a working day or nonworking day.
No Employee shall be compelled to work on any of the foregoing holidays.
18.04	No Employee shall be compelled to work on any other legal or bona fide personal religious holiday, nor shall they be paid for them.
18.05	A new Employee shall not be entitled to payment for any holiday on which he or she does not work if he or she has not earned wages for part or all of each day of at Ieast15 days during the 30 calendar day immediately preceding the holiday.
18.06	An Employeewho is eligible pursuant to 18.04 to receive Holiday Pay, shall receive same provided that, while work is available, he or she works both his or her scheduled work day before and his or her scheduled work day after the Holiday unless his or her absence is for justifiable cause, which includes, inter alia, vacation, illness with doctor's certificate, or if the Employee was on a lay-offwithin the time frame of seven (7) days before and twenty-one (21) days after and he/she has worked within the time period of seven (7) calendar

days before or twenty-one (21) calendar days after the ho liday.
18.07	Any Employee who terminates his or her employment during the calendar week in which a holiday occurs without giving one (l^eek’s notice shall not be entitled to paymentfor such holiday.
18.08	.HOLIDAY PAY
(a)	The payment of Holiday Pay for all Employees paid on hourly time basis shall be up to a maximum of eight (8) hours multiplied by his or her then Guaranteed Hourly Rate; the foregoing shall be-subject to the provisions of Article 16.01 hereof.
(b)	The payment of Holiday Pay for all Employees paid upon an incentive basis shall be up to a maximum of eight (8) hours multiplied by his or her Average Hourly Pay, subject to the provisions of Article
16.01	of this Agreement
(c)	The rate of Holiday Pay for all Employees in the event any Employee is requested to work and performs any work on any of the aforesaid holidays shall be at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) of their rate or average in addition to the regular payment for such holiday.
(d)	The payment for holidays which fall on a Saturday or Sunday shall be based on the pay for the day on which the holiday is observed.
ARTICLE 19 - CITIZENSHIP DAY
Inthe event that any Employee is required to be absent from work due to their becoming a Citizen of Canada, that Regular Employeeshall be entitled to be paid at his or her Guaranteed Hourly Rate of Pay for the hours necessary to be absent from work to complete the proc-
22
of becoming a Canadian Citizen; said payment to be to a maximum of four (4) hours.
DUTY
The Manufactureragrees that in the event that an Employee is called upon to perform Jury Duty, the Employee shall be paid for loss of wages at the Guarantee Rate minus any monies received from the government agencies for the Jury Duty service.
ARTICLE 20- LEAVE OF ABSENCE
20.01
(a)
(b)
A Regular Employee shall be entitled to request a Leave of Absence without pay and without loss of Seniority after completion of three (3) years of continuous service. An Employee must request Leave of Absence in writing with a copy to the Union at least three (3) months prior to Leave. The Manufacturer shall respond to the request no later than two (2) weeks after the request for Leave.
Employee shall be entitled to request a Leave of Absence for up to four (4) weeks (not includingva-cation).
(c)	The Manufacturer shall take the request for Leave under consideration depending on production requirements, availability of a replacement and the number of other Employees scheduled for Vacation or Leave of Absence at that time; and the purpose for the Leave. When morethan one (Ir^questfor Leave of Absence is submitted for the same pe-nod, the Senior Employee(s) will be given preference.
(d)
Permissionsfor the Leave, if granted must be approved by the Manufacturer in writing and a copy of the decision given to the Employee and the Union.
23
20.02
) Leave taken underthis Section must be separated by at least three (3) years of continuous service.
MATERNITY/PARENTAL LEAVE
In accordance with the Regulations of the Employment Standards Code, effective December31, 2000:
a)	Every female Employee who has worked for the Manufacturer a minimum of seven (7) consecutive months and submits an application in writing at least four (4) weeks before the Maternity Leave is scheduled to start; specifying a start date and return to work date, and provides a Medical Certificate providing an estimated date of delivery, shall be granted a Maternity Leave without pay as hereinafter set out.
b)	Maternity Leave can begin as early as seventeen (17) weeks prior to the expected date of birth and end not later than seventeen (17) weeks after the date of delivery.
c)	Every Employee’who becomes a mother or father as a result of the birth or adoption of a child, who has worked for the Manufacturer a minimum of seven (7) consecutive months and submits an application in writing at least four (4) weeks before the Parental Leave is scheduled to start, shall be granted Parental Leavewithout pay as hereinafter set out.
d)	A Woman's Parental Leave must follow immediately after her Maternity Leave is completed, unless she and the Manufacturer have agreed to a different arrangement. The Father's Parental Leave can be taken at the same time, a different time or overlap the Mother's Leave.
Parental Leave must be commenced within fifty
24
two (52) weeks of the child’s birth or date of adoptive custody, but does not necessarily have to be completed within that time.
e)	A female Employee who decides to take Parental Leave following Maternity Leave, who has not been previously specific regarding her return to work date, is required to give the Manufacturer a second written notice four (4) weeks prior to the date on which the Parental Leave is to start.
f)	Notwithstanding that any female Employee does not apply for Maternity Leave as herein before provided, she is nevertheless entitled to and-shall be granted leave for a period not exceeding the period of Maternity Leave to which she is entitled to hereunder.
g)	An Employeewho returns to work upon the expiration of Matemity/Parental Leave as provided for in this Article, shall be reinstated in all respects by the Manufacturer in the position previously occupied by the Employee providing the position is available. If the position is not available, the Employee shall have first priority on the individual position if and when it becomes available.
h)	If the Employeewishes to return to work earlier than the expiry date of the leave, the Employee must give the Manufacturertwo (2) weeks notice.
20.03	ILLNESS LEAVE
1(a)	Employeeswho are absent from work due to injury
or illness shall retain their Seniority for a period up to twelve (12) months.
are absent from work due to injury or illness up to a maximum of three (3) months shall be reinstated, in all respects, by the Manufacturer in the position formerly occupied by the Employee, or
25
in a comparable position, with all increments to wages and benefits to which the Employee would have been entitled had the leave not been taken. Piecework Employees shall be credited with their Average Rate of Pay at the time of illness or injury until a new average has been earned.
If an Employee is absent because of an accident, extended sickness or Workers Compensation, he or she must contact the Employer on a biweekly basis unless the doctor has specified a length of time that the Employee will be incapacitated or a date of reassessment.
20.04	UNION LEAVE
(a)	The Manufacturer shall, upon written notification from the Union, grant to any Union Member, leave for Union Business, without pay or loss of Seniority, in accordancewith the following guidelines:
i)	Union Conventions:
-Union to provide minimum of two (2) weeks written notification
-maximum of three (3) Employees from the facility at such time
ii)	Other Union Business:
-Union to provide minimum of two (2) weeks written notification
-cannot exceed ten (10) working days during any twelve (12) month periodfor any individual Employee -maximum of two (2) Employees from the facility at any one time.
26
20.05	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
1(a) Five (5) days off with pay within the first seven (7) ‘ days following death, shall be given to any Employee upon the death of their spouse or child.
(b)	Three (3)days off with pay within the first seven (7) days following death, shall be given to any Employee upon the death of their parent, brother or sister.
(c)	One (1) day off with pay within the first seven (7) days following death, shall be given to any Employee upon the death of a grandchild, grandparent, mother-in-law or father-in-law.
(d)	Pay for such leave shall be at the average hourly pay of each Employee.
(e)	Bereavement Pay shall not be paid while an Employee is on lay-off, sick leave, maternity leave, leave of absence or vacation.
ARTICLE 21 -WAGE RATES
21.01	Employees paid on an incentive basis shall be paid based on the MinuteValue Ratesas set out in24.12 A of this Agreement. Employees shall not be paid less than the sum of their Guaranteed Rate as set out in 24.12 B of this Agreement, multiplied by the number of hours worked.
21.02	Job classifications referred to in this Agreement shall havethe meaningssetout in24.12 C.
ARTICLE 22- PAY DAY
22.01	Pay days shall be fixed as every second Friday with provisions for Holidays occurring on the specified Pay Day.
27
22.02	The Manufacturer shall furnish to each Employee and the Union, each Pay Day, information showing:
(a)	Date of Pay
(b)	Numberof hoursworked during the pre-ceding period including overtime
(c)	Grosswages earned
(d)	Particularsand amounts of deduction from such pay; and
(e)	Net amount of wages paid.
ARTICLE 23 -WORKERSCOMPENSATION
23.01	An Employee, if injured in the shop and requiring medical attention at a location outside of the Manufacturers premises, shall receive compensation for the time lost from work up to a maximum of four (4) hours, calculated at the Guaranteed Pay, for the first day of the accident.
ARTICLE 24 -	INCENTIVESYSTEM AND WAGE RATES
24.01	All employment during the currency of this Agreement, unless by mutual consent, shall be performed on an incentive basis based upon standards determined by the Manufacturer.
24.02	Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement, the Manufacturer shall have the right to set the standard for each operation, group of operations or Team Incentive System, or to revise existing methods or standards for any operation or group of operations, limited only by the requirement that in setting standards, the standard for any operation shall be set, using standard engineering practices, including General Sewing Data (GSD), or similar engineering practices to yield a normal Operator fully trained and operating under normal conditions at a normal rate of speed, an earning opportunity commensurate with a yield at 100% of the Minute Value.
24.0 \ In the event that an Employee feels that the standard
28
so established is inadequate, the Employee shall follow the Grievance Procedureas set out in Article 12.
24.04	In the event of a dispute on incentive rates, any Employee affected by the standard shall continue to work at the established rate until the dispute is settled by the Grievance procedure as provided herein, and in the event of any adjustment of the standard upon final settlement, the adjustment shall be paid retroactively to the date of the Grievance.
24.05	In addition to the rights contained in the Grievance procedures as set out in Article 12, a qualified Union Industrial Engineershall have the righttwice a year, to check incentive rates and standards in conjunction with the proper Representatives of the Manufacturer, using accepted engineering practices. The date and time of proposed study shall be determined by agreement between the parties.
24.06	When an Employeeis transferred to an alternate operation, the operator may be paid on a declining training allowance based on the Employee's output.
24.07	Where the declining training allowance cannot be implemented and the request for a transfer is made at a time when the Employee has continuing work at this or her current operation Average Hourly Pay shall be paid.
24.08	Where the declining training allowance cannot be implemented and the Employee has no work on his or her current operation, the Employee shall be paid his or her Guaranteed Rate.
24.09	DELAY TIME
All Employees paid upon a piecework basis shall be compensated for time lost attributable to waiting for work and/or, for machine or equipment down time in the following manner:
29
I a)	Should the waiting time or down time, exceed a
combined total in any day of fifteen (15) accumulated minutes per Employee, then the affected Employee shall be paid for the total amount of waiting time and/or down time, at their then Guarantee Hourly Rate which remuneration shall be in addition to their piecework earnings.
b) Any Employeewho finds it necessary to wait for work, shall on each separate occasion notify his/ her Supervisor both at the beginning and at the end of such waiting period. Payment for waiting time shall cover only such time as following such notification
24.10 REPAIRS
If an Employee has caused garments to require repair, he/she shall not be subject to fine or pay reductionsfor additional costs or damages associated with correcting the error except that he/she will repair the fault on his/ her own time during regularworking hours.
Such damage may be cause for disciplinary action.
24.1	I TEAM INCENTIVE
Prior to implementation:
I _ The Manufacturerwill group operators matching:
a) Operator Efficiency Performance b) Skill Levels and Experience, c) Attendance Performance
2.	To promote encourage and maintain harmony, good team relationship, cooperation and continuity of TEAMS, the Manufacturerwould as much as possible group TEAM members who are acceptable to each other.
30
3.	The Manufacturer will not separate current groups which choose to remain together, but accept the TEAM incentive system, and providingthe Company determines that the TEAM is a workable one.
4.	TEAM earning calculations of daily completion quantities will take into account individual TEAM members attendance. TEAM members are responsible for reporting daily completion quantities relative to members attendance.
5.	TEAMS are responsible for their QUALITY performance.
6.	The Manufacturer, after consulting with the Union, reserves the right to review and change the TEAM incentive system during the tenure of this contract if normal business or production operations are negatively affected. The cooperation of the Union shall not be unreasonably withheld.
7.	Each operator in the module will be paid by TEAM incentive. TEAM hourly rate will be calculated by the total daily minutes earned over the total daily available minutes multiply by the 100% yield rate.
Example of operator earnings of a Team incentive module with each operatorworking 8 hours:
Units	SAM for	Total	Total	Standard	%/hour
Produced	Module	Minutes	Operator	minutes
in module____________earned__________________________
175	7.82	1368.5	3	.1440	95%
31
WAGE RATES
24.12
A. WAGES - MINUTE VALUE YIELDS AT 100%
Classification Existing 04/01/QS
04/01/06	04/01/07
Gerber Cutter Operator Spreaders/ Fusers
Minute Value	.1362	.1380
Yield @*100%	$8.17	$8.28
.1398	.1417
$8.39	$8.50
Pieceworkers, Finisher
Under Presser, General
Hand, Loader, SMO
Minute Value	.1467	.1480
Yield @100%	$8.80	$8.88
.1492	.1508
$8.95	$9.05
Final Pressers
Minute Value	.1478	,1485
Yield @100%	$8.87	$8.91
.1492	.1500
$8.95	$9.00
PROGRESSION SCALE OF GUARANTEED RATES
Effective	Existing	Star
April 1/05	$7.15 (7.25)	$7.25
April 1/06		$7.45
April 1/07		$7.70
Guaranteed Rate		
Months IYear
$7.35	$7145
$7.55	$7.70
$7.80	$8.00
Aor.1/05 Apr. 106	Apr. F07
$7.45	$7.70	$8.00
32
Effective
Timeworkers
Classification Existing Apr. 1/05
Apr. 1/06 Apr. 1/07
Console	$7.25	$8.00
Operators
SR Console.	$10.40	$10,70
Operators(8+yrs.)
Consolidation/	$7.25	$7.75
Service6perators
Ticketers	$7.30	$7.75
$8.50	$9.00
$11.00	$11.25
$8.25	$8.50
$8.1 0	$8.50
C.	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
1.	Gerber Cutter Operator
Using Gerber machine cut lays to meet marker and quality specifications.
2.	Spreader
Spread material by hand or machine to the number of lays required to be cut, to meet marker and quality speci-ficat ions.
3.	Gerber Loader
Load garments on to the carrier of the Gerber mover.
4.	Fusers
Fuse together different parts of a garment using a fusing machine.
5.	Operators
Perform any sewing machine operations necessary to complete a garment.
6.	Underoressers
Press seams and do other incidental piece pressing necessary to make the pieces ready for the operator or the finishing process.
7.	Final Pressers
Press any garment using pressing equipment after it has been sewn.
33
8.	General Hand. Finishers& Service Workers
Do sundry factory work incidental to the manufacture of garments and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, including thread clipping and cleaning.
10	Ticketers
Prints hang tags, labels and attach tickets to bundles.
ARTICLE 25 - HEALTH AND WELFARE AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS
25.01	The Health and Welfare and Retirement Funds established by the Union and the Manufacturer shall be continued in accordance with the prior Agreements between the parties and in accordance with constitution by-laws and regulations of the plans wherein the Union has been designated the "Trustee" of the plans and a "Trustee at arms length" from the Manufacturers has been appointed.
25.02	The Plans, whose administrative offices are located at 978 Notre DameAvenue, Winnipeg, Manitoba, are entitled:
a)	Western Canadian Regionl.L.G.W.U. Consolidated Health and Welfare Fund
b)	Western Canadian Regionl.L.G.W.U Consolidated Retirement Fund
25.03	The Parties agree that when appropriate, the By-laws of the Health and Welfare and Retirement Funds will be amended to provide for joint administration of the funds by the Union and the contributing Employers.
25.04	The Manufacturer agrees to contribute to the Funds during the term of this Agreement, on an monthly basis. The amounts shall be calculated on the total gross weekly payroll of Union Members in its employment including payments for Holiday Pay, as follows:
34
Health and Welfare Fund Retirement Fund TOTAL
These contributions shall be paid to the Union office no later than the 30th day of the following month, effective April 4, 1999.
25.05	The Manufacturer shall be provided copies of the Plan Rules.
25.06	Auditors assigned by the Funds shall have the right to check payroll records of the Bargaining Unit Employees to determine that full payment has been made by the Manufacturerto the Funds.
ARTICLE 26 - UNION LABEL
26.01	The Manufacturer shall have stamped into every gar-
ment made by it, the UNITE HERE! Insignia. The Manufacturershall purchase the stamp and shall pay a royalty fee to the Union in the amount of $800 per year representing labels for all garments produced by the Manufacturer and falling under the UNITE HERE! in Winnipeg, including but not limited to:	Inkster/
McDermot, Adelaide and Notre Dame factories.
ARTICLE 27 - CONTRACTING OUT
27.01	The Manufactureragrees that work normally performed by Employees within the Bargaining Unit shall be performed by Employees in the Bargaining Unit, and shall continue to be so performed by Employees within the Bargaining Unit provided that Employees qualified to perform the work are available.
27.02	The Manufacturer may contract out work where for sound business reasons it is necessary to do so, however it is the desire of the Parties hereto, to the extent same is consistent with sound business reasons, that
35
any such contracting out shall not be done in a way as to cause the lay-off, replacement, or reduction in regular earnings of any Regular Employee directly affected in the Bargaining Unit.
27.03	Where there exists Regular Employees on lay-off, subject to the sound business reasons referred to in 27.02, those Employees on lay-off shall first be offered the opportunity of performing such work referred to herein, provided they have the requisite skills and ability, and are available when required.
27.04	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, no homework shall be sent out or permitted.
ARTICLE 28 - SAVINGS CLAUSE
28.01	Should any clause or provision of this Agreement be declared illegal or in any way conflict with any laws of the Province of Manitoba or any regulation thereof, both Parties agree that this Agreement shall be automatically amended so as to comply with such law or regulation, if the law or regulation so requires, The remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.
28.02	The waiver of any of the provisions of the Agreement or the breach of any of its provisions by either of the Parties shall not constitute a precedent for any further waiver or for the enforcement of any further breach.
ARTICLE 29- DURATION AND REVISION OF AGREEMENT
29.01	This three (3) Year Agreement shall be effective as of the Istday of April 2005, and shall continue in full force and effect up to the close of business on the 31st day of March, 2008, and thereafter from year to year unless either the Union or the Manufacturer gives written notice to the other of its desire to revise this Agreement, or to conclude a new CollectiveAgreement.
36
29.02	Either Party may give notice to the other Party to commence collective bargaining with a view to the renewal of this Agreement at any time after January 31 in the year in which this Agreement expires.
ARTICLE 30 - DENTAL PLAN
30.01	'Effective June 11, 1996 each Employeeand his/her de
'pendants shall be covered by the dental plan.
Company maintains both single and family plans as
f)resently exist, but require Employee contributions, ef-ective 1 st payroll OctOfc,er/05 as follows:
Family Plan	$6.10/month	$6.60/month $7.10/month
Single Plan	$3.30/month	$3.80/month $4.30/month
30.02	Any newly hired Employee, after the signing of this Collective Agreement, will be subject to a six (6) month eligibility period for coverage of the Dental Plan.
30.03	The Dental Plan is a 100% coverage of basic and essential dental work with a limit of $1000.00 per year per Family Member.
30.04	The Company shall supply each Member with Dental Forms and a copy of the Rules and Regulations of the Dental Plan.
37
NYGARD INTERNATIONALPARTNERSHIPr'NYGARD”)
Excerotsfrom the NYGARD Privacy Code as pertainsto the Collective Agreement with Unite Here! MB Joint Council, Local 288 on behalf of the Employeesof NYGARD.
Scope and Application of the NYGARD Privacy Code
The scope and application of the NYGARD Privacy Code are as follows:
The NYGARD Privacy Code applies to Personal Information about NYGARD Employeesand non-employee Persons who interact with NYGARD that is collected, used or disclosed by NYGARD.
□	Employees in this context includes past and present employees and independentcontractorsof NYGARD
□	Non-employee Persons in this context includes individuals who are viewers, readers, subscribers, advertisers, contest participants,job Applicants, internet users who are exposed to the media content of NYGARD or a NYGARD Company and aboutwhom NYGARD collects Personal Information.
The NYGARD Privacy Code applies to the management of Personal Information in any form whether oral, electronic or written. NYGARD reserves the right to amend this NYGARD Privacy Code from time to time.
The application of the NYGARD Privacy Code is subject to the requirements or provisions of any applicable legislation, regulation or agreements, or the order of any court or other lawful authority.
1.3	NYGARD is responsiblefor Personal Informationin its possession or control, including information that has been transferred to a Third Party for processing. NYGARD shall use appropriate means to provide a comparable level of protection while information is being processed by a Third Party (see Principle7).
38
3.1	Generally, NYGARD shall seek consent to use and disclose Personal Information at the same time it collects the information. However, NYGARD may seek consent to use and disclose Personal Information after it has been collected but before it is used or disclosed for a new purpose.
may disclose Personal Information about its employees: a) for normal personnel and benefits administration; b) in the context of providing references regarding current or former employees in responseto requests from prospectiveemployers; or c) where disclosure is required by law.
shall protect Personal Informationdisclosed to Third parties by contractual agreements stipulating the confidentiality of the information and the purposes for which it is to be used.
The NYGARD Privacy Code in Detail, can be reviewed and/or if any person at any time has any questions or concerns about NYGARD’S privacy practices, the person can write to:
VP Legal Services & General Counsel or contact by telephone
at (204)982-5819
February 10, 2005
39
WITNESS HEREOF the Parties have duly executed this
Aqreement the_^F____k_ dav of ^	, 2006.
6
NYGARD INTERNATIONAL LTD.	LOCAL288 OF THE
UNITE HERE! Manitoba Joint Council