COLLECTIV LABOUR AGREEMENT
SOURCE:	[\ . '' -v>j, U! "v	
EFF.		o'S o \
T R/2.	\s\ i o*	JAIL
Mo. OF L:P L G V E fc j mom:;re j D'FM.i’lOV	s | 1	
	fs	
Between
Toronto Dress <Sl Sportswear Manufacturers’ Guild Inc.
and
Ontario District Council of Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees (U.N.LT.E.)
Local 14, 83, 92 and 136
August l6t, 1995 to
July 31“, 1998
Toronto Dress & Sportswear Manufacturers’ Guild Inc.
And
Ontario District council of Union of Necdlctradcs, Industrial and Textile Employees, Local 14, 83, 92 and 136
INDEX
CLAUSE
PAGE
1.	Agency
2.	Performance
3.	Definition of Industry
4.	Union Shop
5.	Check-off
6.	Management Rights
7.	'No Discrimination
8.	Seniorit)
9.	Division of Work
10.	‘Notice of Termination of Employment
11.	‘Trial Period
12.	Automation
13.	Hours of Work
14.	Rest Period
15.	Waiting For Work
16.	Duplicates and Specials
17.	Overtime
18.	Wage Increases
19.	Minimums
20.	Health & Safely Committee 2 1. Systems of Work
22.	Shop chairperson and Price-Committee
23.	Price Settlements
24.	Price Lists
25.	Holidays
26.	Holiday Pay - Average Hourly Earnings
27.	Bereavement Pa>
28.	No Work To Struck Shop
29.	Individual Contracts
30.	Visits To Employees
31.	Recognition of Guild
32.	Arbitration
33.	No Strike or Lock-Out
34.	Union Label
2
2
2
3
4
5
6 6 9
9
10 10 11 11 12 12
13
14
15 17
17
18 18
19
20 22
23
24 24
24
25
26 27 27
l
Toronto Dress & Sportswear Manufacturers’ Guild Inc.
And
Ontario District council of Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, Local 14, 83, 92 and 136
INDEX
CLAUSE
page:
35.	Prohibition of Homework
36.	Contracting Out
37.	Health and Welfare Fund Benefits
38.	Vacation With Pay Fund
39.	Vacation With Pay-Third Week
40.	Service Supplement
41.	Retirement Fund
42.	Conditions of Payment
43.	Payroll Records
44.	Education Fund
45.	Leave of Absence
* Form of Leave Of Absence
46.	Duration
47.	Interpretation
28
28
29
29
30
31
31
32
33 33
33
34
35 35
*******************
APPENDIX
■	Welfare Fund H Who Qualifies
■	How Do I Apply For Benefits
H Who Pays For The Benefits Under This Plan
■	Sick Benefit
M Maternity Benefit
■	Eyeglass Benefit
■	Severance Pa>
■	Insurance Benefit
■	Drug Plan
■	Dental Plan
■	Important Note
37
37
37
38
38
39 39
39
40 40 40 40
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN :	TORONTO DRESS & SPORTSWEAR
MANUFACTURERS’ GUILD INC. hereinafter called the "EMPLOYER"
OF THE FIRST PART
AND	ONTARIO DISTRICT COUNCIL OF THE
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES,
INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES(UNITE) LOCALS 14, 83 AND 92, hereinafter called the "UNION" .
OF THE SECOND PART
WHEREAS the parties hereto represent respectively the employer and employees engaged primarily in the manufacture or production of women's clothing as defined in Clause 3, in the Province of Ontario.
AND WHEREAS the Parties hereto have agreed that the above mentioned Agreement shall, subject to the amendments and covenants hereinafter contained, be extended for a further period of three (3) years, from the said FIRST DAY OF AUGUST, 1995, to the 31ST DAY OF JULY, 1998.
The parties herein agree to the terms of this memorandum as constituting full settlement of all matters in dispute.
1
Guild.con
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the Parties hereto for the purpose of facilitating collective bargaining and in order mutually to assist each other in maintaining harmonious industrial relations and stability of standards within the Industry, covenant, promise and agree with one and other as follows:
1. Agency: ^
1.01	The Employers recognize and acknowledges the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all factory employees of Employers engaged in the production of garments, save and except foremen and designers and the Union recognizes and acknowledges the Guild as the exclusive bargaining agent and representative of the said Employers.
2. Performance -
2.01	The respective parties hereto covenant and agree to observe the terms and conditions of the Agreement and to perform same in good faith and by the due exercise of all powers which they lawfully possess to secure and enforce the due performance of the provisions thereof.
3. _ Definition Of Industry:
3.01	The Industry consists of manufacturers and contractors primarily producing women's apparel, which in general terms, are dresses and sportswear.
Guild.con
4 . Union Shop:
4.01	No Employer shall employ or retain in his employ any person to perform any of the following operations in connection with the manufacture or production 0 f clothing for females, namely; cutting, operating, pressing, finishing, separating, samplemaking, general hands, examining, bushelling, special machine work and draping, which has heretofore been under the jurisdiction of the Union, unless such person satisfies all the following conditions:
a)	is certified by the Union to be a member in good standing with the Union;
b)	' the Union dues and assessments are not
in arrears more than eight weeks.
4.02	The Union agrees that it will to the best of its ability furnish the Employer with such workers as the Employer may require. In the event that the Union is unable to supply such workers to the Employer, then the Employer may employ persons not members o f the Union, provided that:
a)	if such persons are skilled employees, they shall become members of the Union, subject to the trial period hereinafter set out;
b)	if such persons are unskilled employees, they shall become members of the Union within one month of their employment.
4.03	The employers are obliged to maintain a Union Shop in their own establishment and in any establishment with which they are directly or indirectly connected or with which they may
Guild.con
3
become associated or have any relationship either as a partner, shareholder, director or otherwise, the whole in connection with the industrial jurisdiction as covered by the present Agreement, or in any industrial field or jurisdiction in which	the U.N.I.T.E. i s
operating or has employer-employee agreements or relationships.
4.04	It is the intention of this Agreement that
where one or more persons are engaged in manufacturing products falling under the industrial jurisdiction of this Agreement or in any industrial field in which the U.N.I.T.E. is operating or has Employer or employee agreements or relationships, such person or persons, whether individuals,	partnerships	or
corporations, shall. be obliged to maintain a Union Shop in all establishments wherein they or any of them have an interest, and the principle of a Union Shop shall be and remain paramount and held inviolate, and all indirect violations of this principle are prohibited.
4.05	Where the Employer is a corporation, the provisions of the present section shall apply to the shareholders of such corporation.
4.06	It is agreed that this clause also be incorporated in Collective Labour Agreements in other industries under the jurisdiction of the U.N.I.T.E.
5. _ Check-off:.
5.01	The Employer shall deduct from the wages of each employee within the scope of this Agreement, who has completed his probationary period, monthly dues from each employee. The amount of dues and assessments may, from time to
Guild.con
4
time, be changed and due from each employee to the Union. Each employer shall transmit such monies to the Union Office monthly, not later than the tenth day of the relevant month. The Union shall supply the necessary forms to each Employer to facilitate the said check-off. The Union shall notify the employer in writing as to the amount to be deducted.
6.	Rights nent_	___
6.0:1 The Union acknowledges that it is the
exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer, suspend, discipline or discharge for just cause any employee, subject to the right of the employee to submit a grievance;
(c)	generally	manage the industrial
enterprise in	which the Company is
engaged, and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to increase or decrease the working force, to determine the products to be manufactured, methods o f manufacturing, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, process	of manufacturing, the
engineering and designing of its products, the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced, and the extension,	limitation, curtailment or
cessation of operations;
5
Guild.con
(d)	make, alter and enforce reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by employees. All matters concerning the operations of the Company’s business not specifically limited by any provisions herein, shall be reserved to the Management and be its sole responsibility.
6.02	It is hereby agreed that these functions will be exercised in a manner consistent with and subject to the provisions of the Agreement.
7.	_ No. Discrimination :_
7.01	The parties agree that there shall be no discrimination restrictions or coercion exercised or practised with respect to membership or lawful activity in the Union.
7.02	The parties acknowledge the applicability of the Ontario Human Rights Code to the workplace. The Code prohibits discrimination based on race, ancestry, place of origin, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, creed,. sex, age, record of offenses, marital status, sexual orientation, family status or handicap, all as more particularly set out therein.
8,	Seniority:,
8.01	Seniority is the length of uninterrupted company service an employee has with the company and shall be settled for those persons presently in the employ by a list delivered to the Union with employee’s name and start date set out there-on. For new employees, it shall be the date of last hire.
Guild.con
6
8.02	There shall be a seniority list posted, and updated every six months.
8.03	It is the responsibility of the employees at all times to keep the company informed as to his/her home address and telephone number.
8.04 When a department or	operation is
discontinued by reason of technological change and employees are displaced, the Employer will make every reasonable effort to give	such
employees the opportunity to find work for which they are qualified and that they are able to do in their	own department or in another
department, at the established base rate for piece work purposes or if no piece rate price has been established then the employee shall receive his regular time work rate until a piece work rate i s established.	This shall be
consistent with existing language regarding seniority.
8.05	Seniority rights and employee benefits will cease and the employee shall be deemed terminated for any of the following reasons:
(a)	if the employee voluntarily quits or accepts severance;
(b)	if the employee is discharged for just cause;
(c)	if the employee is absent from work for five (5) working days without notifying the Company, unless a reason satisfactory for the Company is supplied;
(d)	if an employee has been on layoff and fails to return within five (5) working days after 'he has been notified to do so by registered mail by the post office, to
7	Guild.con
his last known address with the Company, unless a reason satisfactory to the company is supplied;
(e)	i f any employee is on verifiable illness (approved by the Union doctor) for twelve (12) consecutive months;
(f)	if any employee is on layoff for twelve (12) consecutive months.
8.06	In all cases of layoff expected to be less than two weeks seniority will apply by department.
8.07	For layoffs expected to last more than two weeks or recall in the case of layoffs, seniority by classification will apply. For any layoff expected to last longer than two weeks, a seniority employee who is laid off, may elect to bump a junior employee in another department, so long as the senior employee can sufficiently perform the work in accordance with the average production standard.
Refer to Article 19 for the appropriate classifications. Bumping will only apply from a skilled classification to a similar or lower skilled classification. A senior employee who elects to bump into another department will be given one full day of training. If additional time is required in a special circumstance, the employer and the union will discuss the matter. But at no time will the training be longer than three days in that new department at their average hourly earnings.
8.08	If an employee elects to transfer, such employee will be paid after completion of their trial period at the piece work rate, or the average rate in a time work department. When
8 Guild.con
work becomes available in such employee's original department, the employee will move back into their department at their original rate of pay.
8 . 09 The cutting room will be one classification for seniority purposes only. For short term layoffs the current practices will apply. For long term layoffs and recall purposes, the three classifications (Skilled Cutters, Semi-skilled and Spreaders) will be considered one. Cutting classification employees will have the right to bump into another classification, and will receive the applicable rate of pay for that classification as outlined above.
9.	Division Of Work-
9.01	Whenever sufficient work is not available for all employees in a shop, all available work shall be so divided among all employees properly engaged in the work who are competent to do the work so as to assure as nearly as possible an equal division of work.
When the above is not feasible the seniority provision shall govern.
9.02	When a worker retires the employer will make reasonable effort to replace such worker if production levels warrant an increase in personnel.
10 . Notice Of Termination Of Employment:
10.01	In the event of an employee leaving or desiring to leave his place of employment, he shall give his Employer at least one week's
9	Guild.con
notice of his intention; and in the event of the Employer desiring to dispense with the services of an employee, the Employer shall give notice as outlined by the Employment Standards Act.
11. Trial Period;
11.01	Any skilled worker furnished by the Union under the provision of Article 4 aforesaid shall be accepted by the Employer and shall be given a reasonable trial for a period of two working weeks to ascertain whether he is qualified for regular employment with the Employer. The trial period may be extended beyond the period of two working weeks in exceptional circumstances by mutual consent of the parties hereto. After the expiration of the trial period, the employee shall be deemed a regular employee of the Employer and shall be entitled to all rights, privileges and benefits and shall be subject to all conditions and obligations provided for by this agreement.
12 . Automation-
12. 01. In the event of the introduction of new machinery or equipment which has an impact upon the employees the Company will give the Union notice thereof (60 days in advance of the , proposed change) and will discuss with the Union the implications of such new machinery and equipment including ways of helping employees adjust to the change which it occasions.
12.02	The employer and the Union agree to discuss any other changes brought about by the application of this Article; and disputes between the parties may be referred to Arbitration.
10	Guild.con
12.03	When different skills are required by affected employees, training will be provided to the number o f such employees as required in accordance with -their seniority and potential capability in accordance with a reasonable training period.
13 .	Hours Of Work:
13.01	The regular working week shall consist of thirty-five (35) hours of work made up of seven hours of work each day from Monday to Friday, both inclusive, with one hour for noon recess as follows:
a)	For those commencing work at 8:00
a.m. Monday	through Friday, beginning
at 8:00a.m. to 12:00 noon and from 1:00 p.m. to 4:00p.m.
b)	For those commencing work at 8:30
a.m. Monday	through Friday, beginning
at 8:30a.:m. to 12:00 noon and from 1:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
13.02	One Hour shall be allotted for the lunch recess (12:00 noon to 1:00 p.m.).
13.03	The Employer shall have a time clock in good working order and shall keep an accurate record of time worked by his employees.
14.	Rest_ Period-
14. 01 The Union and the Employers agree that where rest periods or coffee breaks	are
presently the practice, that this practice shall not be disturbed. It is also agreed that where rest period or coffee breaks are not	the
11	Guild.con
practice, then the Employer will be required to establish a ten (10) minute rest period either in the morning or during the course of the afternoon.
Where abuse of the rest period(s) is experienced the Employer shall have the right to call upon the Union and the Guild with the purpose of determining whether or not to continue rest periods.
14.02	It is agreed that afternoon breaks for ten (10) minutes be permitted when overtime is being worked. Where there are no afternoon breaks, a ten (10) minute break will be given at the end of the day before starting overtime. Where an afternoon break is already the practice, then no overtime break will be necessary.
15.	Waiting, For _Work-
15 .01 The Employer shall not compel any employee to wait in the factory when there is no work available. No worker shall be entitled to any pay for time when he or she is not working. An employee required to report for work shall be supplied with a least four (4) hours work or compensation at average hourly earnings.
16.	Duplicates and Specials:.
16.01	No employee shall refuse to work on samples, specials, or duplicates work when so requested.
16.02	All specials and duplicates will first be given to the sample makers. If the sample makers are unable to complete all such work, then the remainder shall be divided as equally as
12	Guild.con
possible among all the piece work operators. All prices fixed shall, be ten (10%) percent above the regular piece work prices established or to be settled as per Article 23.
17.	Overtime -
17.01	The overtime rate of pay shall be one and one half times the regular rate and shall be computed, in the case of a time-worker, on the basis of the actual pay per hour earned by such worker; and in the case of piece-workers, on the basis of the total number of hours worked by him in the week in which he worked overtime, divided into his pay for such week; and shall be paid to a worker who worked more than the regular working hours in any working day, provided that a worker shall be entitled to payment of overtime rates where he has failed to work such regular working hours, in any working day by reason of
a)	His observance of a religious holiday or rite,
b)	Illness,
c)	Absence with employer's consent,
d)	A serious emergency which makes	prior
notice	impossible and which is
beyond the employee's control,
e)	failure of the Employer to provide a regular working day's employment during regular working hours on the day on which the worker is required to work overtime.
13
Guild.con
17.02	Overtime will be offered to employees with the most seniority in the department who normally perform the work. If not enough senior employees voluntarily agree to work the overtime, then the least senior employee will be required to work the necessary overtime; provided the Company accepts reasonable excuses of the employees and provided the Company notifies the employees by noon of the day preceding the Monday to Friday overtime, or by noon Wednesday for Saturday overtime.
17.03	Overtime not to exceed ten (SO) hours in
any one week or two hours in any one day. Any additional overtime hours may be done with advance notice and consent from the Union shop steward or the office of the Union. If it is not possible	for the employer to give the
required notice of overtime due to production scheduling, then the overtime will be on a purely voluntary basis.
18.	_ Wage. Increases:_
18.01	All employees shall receive the following wage increases:
a)	20 cents per hour effective August 1, 1996
b)	25 cents per hour effective August 1, 1997
The equivalent percentage to be applied to piecework rates for all pieceworkers.
14
Guild.con
Minimums:
19 .
19.01 Minimum rates
spec C-era-or
t Separator
19.02	It is agreed that the Minimum Rates shall be at ten percent (10%) above Government Minimum. Notwithstanding anything herein contained, all minimum rates of wages payable under this Agreement shall be at least ten percent (10%) higher than those provided by the Employment Standards Act _
19.03	Apprenticeship & New Hires
Guild.con
I"™	Apprenticeship (continue)
Craft	Period	Aug/95	Aug/96	Aug/97
				
Finishers	3 mouths _	6.85	7.05	T_Xi —
	6 months	6.95	7.15	7.40
	9 months	7.15	7.35	7.60
	12 months	7.40	7.60	7.85
				
Special	3 months	6.85	7.05	7.30
Machine	6 months	6.95	7.15	7.40
Operators	9 months	7.15	7.35	7.60
	12 months	7.40	7.60	7.85
				
General	3 months	6.85	7.05	7.30
Hands	6 months	6.95	7.15	7.40
	9 months	7.15	7.35	7.60
	12 months	7.40	7.60	7.85
				
Separators	3 months	6.85	7.05	7.30
	6 months	6.95	7.15	7.40
	9 months	7.15	7.35	7.60
	o mon_ths o	7.40	7.60	7.85 _
Cutter	3 months	7.55	7.75	8.00
(from	6 months	7.80 _ _	8.20	s _ x _ _
learners	9 months	8.05	8.25	z-I-a - -
to semi-	-i-?-months	8.30	8.50	8.75
skilled)	15 months	8.55	8.75	9.00
	18 mon_ths_	10.26	10.46	10.71 _
Under	3 mooths	6.85	7.05	7.30
Pressers	6 months	6.95	7.15	7.40
or Assist.	9 months	7.15	7.35	7.60
	12 months	7.40	7.60	7.85
				
Examiners	3 months	6.85	7.05	7.30
Bushellers	6 months	6.95	7.15	7.40
	9 months	7.15	7.35	7.60
	12 months	7.40	7.60	7.85
				
16
Guild.con
20. Health £ Safety Committee:
20.01	The Employer shall maintain a clean, safe working place for its employees and shall provide in the factory adequate sanitation, a satisfactory first aid facility and a clean lunchroom.
20.02	The Union, in consultation with the employees in the bargaining unit, shall appoint employees to its Health and Safety Committee. The Committee shall have all the powers and responsibilities of a Health and Safety Committee under the occupation Health and Safety Act, 1978. The names of the Committee members and their work locations shall be posted and kept posted in a conspicuous place or places where it most likely to come to the attention of the employees in the bargaining unit.
20.03	The Committee shall meet with the Employer
at least every three (3) months.	If an
emergency meeting is called by either the Committee or the Employer, then both parties shall meet immediately. The Committee and the Employer shall discuss and attempt to resolve any problems concerning the health and safety of the employees.
21.	Systems Of Work-
21.01	If the employer desires to vary the system of work for any craft, either from piecemwork to time-work or vice-versa, or during a process of automation having workers within the same craft work on different systems, then the employer will first notify the union sixty (60) days in advance of the proposed system. Prior to such a change becoming effective the union and the employer shall agree on the manner, the method
17	Guild.con
and the conditions of the change-over which must be done.
21.02	Refer to Article 8.04. Any disagreement between the parties hereto in connection with the foregoing shall be submitted to arbitration. The arbitrator shall be mandated to balance the needs of the employer and the employees.
22.	Shop Chairperson And PrPce-CQmmitteeu
22.01	The employees in each shop shall at a regular meeting convened at the instance of the Union but not during working hours, select a Shop Chairperson who shall deal and negotiate with the Employer on behalf of the employees, and they shall also select a Price Committee of not less than two (2) or more than fifteen percent (15%) of the operating crafts, who, together with the Shop Chairperson, shall settle prices with the Employer on behalf! of the employees.
22.02	In the event of the absence of any members of the Price Committee, a majority thereof shall, together with the Shop Chairperson have full authority to settle prices.
22.03	The Employer shall not hinder or interfere in any way with the calling of shop meetings, provided however, that no such shop meetings shall be called during regular working hours.
23.	Price Settlem-nts-
23.01	At the commencement of each season the Employer and Employees shall make a sincere attempt to settle prices before commencing work.
18	Guild.con
23.02	If during the season new styles are introduced and wage rates to be paid therefore are not settled by the parties in advance or if in a situation of emergency, special orders, or commitments for styles for which wage rates have not been settled and the employer requires such work be done, such work shall be done, provided:
a)	The parties shall make a sincere attempt to settle the wage rates to be paid for such work.
b)	In the event that the parties are unable to settle such piece-work rates between themselves, the matter may be settled between the representatives of the union and the employer. If the matter is still not resolved, it shall be referred to the arbitrator within 10 days of commencement of work. The arbitrator shall hear evidence from time study engineers from both parties and his decision shall reflect this evidence.
23.03	The arbitrator shall render his decision within 48 hours of the case in question being referred to him. After settlement or adjuration piece rates and payments shall be adjusted accordingly.
23.04	It is understood all piece-work prices established include all bonuses paid and shall be the total price actually paid.
24.	_ Price- Lists:
24.01	All piece-work price lists shall be posted conspicuously and within easy access to the employees in the factory. Copies of all settled
19	Guild.con
piece-work prices or adjusted time-work rates shall be furnished by the Employer to the Union at the beginning of each season. On furnishing such price lists, these, on confirmation by the Union, shall remain the settled prices.
24.02	It is agreed that a piece-worker is entitled to weekly record of the quantity of garments produced, style numbers and prices paid therefore. The onus of such provision of records is placed on both the Employer and Employee.
24.03	It is agreed that a worker is to be compensated for time spent in making repairs for which he/she is not responsible.
25.	Holidays:
25.01	No work shall be done on the following
legal holidays:	New Year's Day, Good Friday,
Easter Monday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day or on the days on which such legal holidays are observed, whether or not such days fall on a week day. No worker may be compelled to work on other legal, statutory or religious holiday.
25.02	It is agreed that General Provincial and Federal Election days compensation will be as per Election Act. (At least 4 hours off before polls close).
25.03	A worker must be employed by the Employer for a period of one (1) month prior to any legal holiday. Employees shall receive pay in full for New Year's Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour
20	Guild.con
Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
25.04	Notwithstanding the foregoing, any employee who is absent (except in the case of incapacity caused by sickness or resulting from slackness, lay-off or with consent of the Employer) for one (1) full day during the workweek in which any of the aforesaid holidays fall, shall be entitled to receive only EIGHTY PERCENT (80%) of the pay granted for such holiday. If such employee is absent two (2) full days during the work-week in which any of the said holidays fall, such employee shall be entitled to receive only SIXTY PERCENT(60%) of the pay granted for such holiday. If such employee is absent more than three (3) full days during the work-week in which any of the said holiday fall, such employee shall be entitled to receive only FORTY PERCENT (40%) of the pay granted for such holiday. If any employee is absent more than three (3) days during any workweek in which any of the said holidays fall (except in the case of incapacity caused by sickness or resulting from slackness or lay-, off) , such employee shall not receive any pay for any of the aforesaid holidays which fall within such work-week during which such employee was s 0 absent.	To qualify for payment
thereunder, an employee who is ill must furnish proof of illness by presenting a medical certificate.
25.05	The amount to be paid to each employee for each of the said paid holidays shall be, in the case of piece-workers (see Article 26) and in the case of week-workers or time-workers, equivalent to his daily rate then being received. Where any of the said paid holidays falls on a non—working day, employees shall
21	Guild.con
notwithstanding receive a day’s pay, therefore, as aforesaid.
25.06Any employee now receiving payment for any statutory, legal or religious holidays other than herein provided, shall notwithstanding the foregoing, continue to be paid as heretofore.
25.07	The Employer and the Union are in agreement that employees on lay-off for less than 3 months, during which the time a public holiday occurs, the payment for such holiday will be the difference between the holiday rate and the U.I.C. payment.
25.08	It is agreed that a holiday which falls on a Saturday or Sunday shall be moved to either Friday before or the Monday following. The choice of the day to be left with the Employer. The Employer shall make his selection at least two (2) weeks before the said holiday.
26.	Holiday Pay - Average Hourly Earnings:
26.01	The Union and the Employer agree that payment for holiday pay should be calculated on an hourly basis. With regard to paid holidays, the average hourly earnings of piece-workers shall be calculated as follows:
Where an employee has worked in his craft in the Industry during the previous year and his income tax pay records are available for this period, this average hourly earnings shall be the amount shown to have been received by him, divided by the number of hours worked by him. Percentage increases should be added to the holiday pay for those holidays after August first.
22
Guild.con
26.02	It is agreed to permit work on the following legal holidays, provided both the Employer and the employees agree and that provided it is deemed an emergency and provided that such holiday falls on a day which is normally a working day. Payment for such work shall be on the basis of time and one-half (1 -1/2) in addition to payment for the holiday. The following days will be available: Victoria Day, Canada Day, Thanksgiving Day, Boxing Day, Civic Holiday.
27. Bere-vement
27.01	It is agreed to grant employees, members
of the Union, three (3) days' leave with pay to grieve a member of his or her immediate family, provided that the employee loses time on a regular scheduled work day. The pay for such leave will be calculated on the same basis as holiday pay. At the request of the Employer, the employee shall produce proof of death of the person involved. The immediate family shall be defined as spouse, child, father, mother, brother, sister, same sex partner.	For
mother/father-in-law such leave shall be two (2) maximum days with pay. To qualify for such leave, an employee must work in the same plant for a minimum period of two (2) months prior to the granting of leave. Bereavement leave shall also apply to relationships	arising out of
common law marriage or re-marriage.
27.02	It is agreed that absence by death requiring the employee's attendance for a family funeral taking place out of the country such absence shall not jeopardize the employee's job, for a maximum period of twenty-one (21) days.
23
Guild.con
28 . No Work_To .Struck Shop:
28.01	No Employer shall directly or indirectly either give work to or purchase any garments from or do or perform any work or services for or supply any merchandise whether completed or partly completed to any manufacturer, jobber or contractor in the industry against whom the Union is conducting a strike.
29 .	wndividipal -Contracts :
29.01	No Employer shall make any individual contract or arrangements with an employee, or exact or accept any cash deposit or other security from any employee, nor shall any Employer enter into any agreement with any individual employee respecting wages, hours, conditions of- employment or guaranteeing any length of employment.
30 . Yisi±s To Employees:
30.01A duly authorized officer	or
representative of the Union shall at all times have access to the factory of each Employer for the purpose of dealing with complaint condition or other matte of or appertaining to this Agreement or its operation or the relation of the parties hereto or to determine compliance with the terms of this	Collective Agreement,	and such
representative and the Employer shall together co-operate so as to enable any such matter to be investigated, dealt with and disposed of as satisfactorily and expeditiously as possible.
any specific r arising out
24
Guild.con
30.02	The Employer shall at all times have the right to inquire as to the reasons for any such visits as described in 30.01 above but not so-as to impede such visits.
30.03	Where the Employer feels himself abused by shop visits (see 30.01) the Employer shall have the right to apply, Article 32 (Arbitration).
31, Recognition C)£ Guildl
31.01	The Union recognizes the Guild as the representative organization of the Toronto manufacturers in the said industry and agrees, so long as the said Guild observes the terms of this Agreement and so long as the said Guild is, by its membership, representative of a major portion for the said industry, that:
a)	The Union will not enter into any Agreement with any other Association o f manufacturers or with any individual Employer who has been or may hereafter become a member of the said Guild, and;
b)	That any proposal Agreement with any other person firm or corporation shall be on no more favourable terms in any respect than this Agreement, and that upon completion a true copy thereof shall be furnished to the Guild, and;
c)	Both the Guild and the Union agree to co-operate with one another to maintain fair trade practices and standards in the Industry.
25
Guild.con
Arbitrations
32
32.01	It is agreed that Martin Teplitsky, Rick McDowell and S.D. O'Shea are mutually agreeable to the parties as Impartial Chairmen. The party requesting arbitration shall notify the other party in writing of the names of the one (1) arbitrator on the panel which it does NOT wish to hear the case. The party in receipt of such notice shall notify the other party of the one (1) arbitrator which it does NOT wish to hear the case. The remaining arbitrator shall be appointed the arbitrator to hear the case.
32.02	In the event of any dispute or grievance respecting the settlement of wage rates or the interpretation or application Of proper observance or performance of any clause of this Agreement, including any cases arising out of discharge, such dispute shall in the first instance be negotiated between the Manager of the Union (or his deputy) and the Manager of the Company (or his deputy) and any decision so mutually agreed upon shall be binding upon each of the parties hereto.
32.03 In the event of the Managers or their deputies failing to agree, such dispute shall be referred for decision to the Impartial Chairperson. The Impartial Chairperson shall deliver his	decision in writing within a reasonable time and as expeditiously as possible following the submission of any dispute to him.
32.04	The decision of the Impartial Chairperson shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned, and the Impartial Chairperson shall also deal with and decide upon all other matters by this Agreement referred to him for decision, and shall render such decision in respect to such mattes as he shall deem appropriate.
26	Guild.con
32.05Any dispute	to be	referred to the
Impartial Chairperson shall be reduced to writing by the parties claiming to be aggrieved and a copy shall be forthwith furnished to the Impartial Chairperson and to the other party, and any decision rendered by the Impartial Chairperson upon such dispute shall be fully complied within twenty-four (24) hours of such decision.
32.06 The cost of the Impartial Chairperson will be borne equally by the parties.
33.	-o S-rike Or. Lo-.-Out-
33.01	The Union undertakes and agrees that while this Agreement is in operation, neither -the Union nor employees shall take part in or call or encourage any strike, or any picketing and the Company agrees that it will not engage in any lockout during the term of this Agreement. The terms "strike" and "lockout" as used herein shall be deemed to be in accordance with the definitions contained in the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
34.	-nion Label.
34.01	With the object of promoting the increased sale o f dresses, sportswear and associated articles produced or manufactured by the employer, the employer agrees to s
27
Guild.con
35	. Prohibition Of Homework:
35.01	It is agreed that homework of any kind given directly or indirectly is prohibited.
36 . Contracting Quti
36.01	The employers right to contract out will be exercised in accordance with the following:
The guiding principle shall, be that no contract work will be permitted unless the shop is fully employed.
36.02	The term fully employed means that there are no seniority employees on layoff with right of recall.
36.03	UNITE Contractors will be given first preference for outside contracting.
36.04	Not withstanding the foregoing, it i s recognized that the employer has the right to contract out in order to meet the delivery requirements of the customer, or in order to obtain a style with a lower selling price and the union has agreed in advance that it will not make such a style for that piece work price and, therefore can be contracted out.
36.05	If the union alleges that there is a violation to this clause, i-t has the right to go to the impartial Chairperson. The Impartial Chairperson has the authority to penalize the employer 10% of the value of the work contracted out deemed by the Impartial Chairperson to be in violation of this clause. These monies to be paid to the retirement fund within one month of j udgement.
28
Guild.con
37 Healih And Welfare Fund Benefits l.
37.01	The parties agree to continue the maintenance of the Health and Welfare Fund in the Dress and Sportswear Industry. The Employers shall contribute to the 'Fund the following amounts: Effective May 1, 1995 until April 30, 1998 the employers shall have a moratorium. Effective May 1st, 1998 the employers shall again contribute the above—noted two percent (2%) of employees' earnings based upon the gross wages of the employees.
37.02	All benefits to match the benefits as listed in Article 2 5 of the Toronto Cloak Manufacturers' Association agreement dated July 1, 1991.
37.03	The employers further agree to review the benefits for employees once the above-noted Toronto Cloak Manufacturers' Association agreement is renewed, in order to match benefit levels.
37.04	The employers agree to review the rules and regulations for this fund to update them and to produce a booklet for the employees.
38. 'Vacation With Pay_Fundc
38.01	The parties agree to wind up the Vacation with Pay Fund. However, the parties further agree that if the Ontario Wage Protection Fund that currently protects for outstanding vacation pay monies is closed or made irrelevant, then the parti.es shall sit down and negotiate the renewal of the Vacation with Pay Fund. The Employers agree to remit the 4% vacation pay (based on employees' gross earnings) to all Employees in June of every year.
29	Guild.con
38.02	Employees shall receive two (2) weeks vacation. Employers agree to grant their employees two (2) weeks vacation pay in the amount of four percent (4%) of their earnings during the period commencing the first of June and ending the thirty-first day of May of the following year.
38.03	Only members of the Union, who are working in shops covered by this Collective Agreement, shall be eligible to receive payments from this Vacation Fund.
38.04	Effective August 1, 1999 all employees with 5 or more years of service with the same employer shall receive 3 weeks summer vacation at 6% gross wages.
39. _ Vacation With Pety-Third Week:
259.01	The Employers agree to provide all Union members, under this Agreement with a third week vacation.
39.02	Such vacation to be taken during the period of December 1st - January 7th.
39.03	The Employer shall have the sole right to designate when such vacation may be taken during the period. It is further agreed that the Employer shall post advance notice not later than November 1st to announce the third week vacation period.
39.04	Each eligible employee shall receive two percent (2%) of the wages earned during the period of December first to November 30th of the following year. The same period to be used for calculations in succeeding years.
30
Guild.con
39.05	The Employer shall be the sole custodian and distributor of the monies to be used for this purpose.
39.06	Union employees who have worked less time than the period indicated but not less than three (3) months shall receive two percent (2%) of the monies earned as a Union member.
40. Service Suppl-ment-
40.01. The Union and the Company agrees that all Union workers receive a "Service Supplement” of one percent (1%) of wages from their Elmployer. The terms and conditions used for the third week vacation shall apply.
41. _ Retirement Eund:_
41.01	The Toronto Dress and Sportswear Industry Retirement Fund shall continue and the Employer shall continue to make monthly contributions equivalent to four percent (4%) of gross payroll of all union employees.
41.02	Effective August 1, 1995 all employers shall contribute monthly contributions equivalent to four percent of gross payroll of all union employees. The employers shall have a moratorium of contributions for the one month of August, 1995 only. In the event that any employer is more than 30 days late remitting the payment herein than the contribution rate shall be increased to 5% of gross payroll of all union employees until all arrears have been fully paid by the employer, whereupon the contribution rate shall be restored to 4%.
31
Guild.con
41.03	Effective April 30,	1995 the Retirement
Fund will be wound-up. As of May 1, 1996, the Employers and the Union hereby agree that the contributions required by Article 41.01 shall be made to the UNITE Group RRSP to the benefit of the employees. These benefits shall accrue to each of the employees based on their hours worked and the Employers shall maintain such records and submit them to the Union as is necessary to determine the amount of the employee's individual entitlement.
41.04	The contribution amount will be remitted to and received by the UNITE Group RRSP provider no later than the 10th day of the month, immediately following the month that the monies come due.
42. Conditions _Of Payment:
42.01	All monies payable to the Toronto Dress and Sportswear Industry Retirement Fund, the Health and Welfare Fund, the Vacation Fund, and the Group RRSP provided for in this Agreement shall be paid into the Office of the Union no later than the 10th day of the following month for which said monies may be due.
42.02	It is agreed that the Employer shall pay two percent (2%) for each monthly payment that -is late from the date when it becomes due. The Employer shall pay all the costs of collecting monies for the various funds, including the cost
of arbitration, the legal fees involved, and the fees of an auditor.
42.03	In order to assure itself that the employer is complying with the -terms of this contract regarding payments required to be made to the funds referred to in 42.01, the Union
32	Guild.con
shall have the right to examine the wage records of the employees covered by this Agreement.
43. Payrolls r d s___
43.01	It is agreed that the Union and the Guild have the right and permission to obtain Payroll Records of the employees which are submitted to the Toronto Dress and Sportswear Advisory Committee.
44. Educ-hion Fund-
44.01	The employers agree to contribute a sum of $5,000 to the Union Education Fund upon the signing of this Collective Agreement.
45 . Leave Of Absence:
45.01	Requests for leave of absence must be made to the employee's supervisor and, if granted, such leave of absence will be confirmed, in writing, and without pay or any other monetary benefit under -the provisions of the Agreement. Leave of absence, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be permissive only, and shall be understood to mean an absence from work requested, in writing, by the employee on the form provided for such purpose and consented to, in writing, by the employee's supervisor covering a permitted period of time for personal reasons. Leave of absence will not be granted to accept other employment of any kind. 'The Company agrees, as a matter of policy, to cooperate with employees with respect to leave of absence for personal reasons. It is further agreed, to increase leave of absence for up to
33	Guild.con
21 days during peak period, and up to 6 weeks during slow periods.
FORM OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE
_______________ is	hereby
granted leave of absence from
_	_	_	_	_	_ t o______________________
without pay or any
other form of monetary benefit. This leave will not be extended unless
it is in writing.
Dated at____________this____________day of
19	.
Employee
copy for union copy for employer copy for employee
34
Guild.con
46. Duration
46.01	This Agreement shall come into operation as of the FIRST DAY OF AUGUST, 1995 and shall a continue in force and effect for three (3) <jx years, ending on the 31ST DAY OF JULY, 1998, and shall continue in force thereafter from year to year unless either party shall have given at least sixty (60) days but not more than ninety (90) days in writing to the other party of its desire to terminate the Agreement on the 31ST DAY OF JULY, following such written notice.
4 7. Interpi-ta-on-
47.01	In this Agreement words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender, and all nouns or pronouns herein shall be deemed to include individual proprietorships, partnerships and corporations, as the context may require.
35
Guild.con
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and seals, or caused its corporate seal duly attested by its proper officers in that behalf to be hereunto affixed, as the case may be.
Dated at Toronto the	dav of
1996.
For The Companies
For The 'Union
36
Guild.con
APPENDIX A
WELFARE FUND
The Toronto Dress and Sportswear Welfare Fund sponsors the following benefit programs:
-a sick benefit
-a maternity benefit
-an eyeglass benefit
-severance pay
-an life insurance benefit
-a drug plan
-a dental plan
Full details on each plan can be obtained by contacting the Union office or by writing to:
The Toronto Dress and Sportswear Industry Welfare Fund Inc.
’25 Cecil Street, 2nd Floor Toronto, Ontario. M5T INI Attention : Ms. Lisa Rosa
Who qualifies?
If you are a member of the Union for at least six months, and your employer is a member of the Guild for at least six months, then you automatically qualify for all benefits (except maternity and life insurance) within the rules established by the trustees.
How do I apply for benefits?
The forms are available at the Union office or from the Union Business Agent. It is important that in the case of the sick benefit you apply within two weeks from the outset of illness or you may not be eligible for benefits.
37
Guild.con
Who pays f-or the benefits under this plan?
The full cost of the benefits is paid by the participating employers. All the contributions are paid into the Toronto Dress and Sportswear Industry Welfare Fund Inc. No employee is required to make any contribution to the cost of operating this Fund. The
Trustees of the Fund consist of fourteen appointees, seven of whom are appointed by the Guild and seven of whom are appointed by the Union.
Sick Benefit
1.	Each approved claim for sick benefit entitles the claimant to receive $125.00 per week up to twenty weeks, during any one year. or 12 month period. This may be repeated for a maximum of twenty weeks for a second year for the same illness depending upon the length of service of the member.
2.	All claims for sick benefit are reviewed each week by the Examination may be required Guild, Union, and Fund Doctor. by the Fund Doctor before benefits are given.
3.	Normally if an employee suffers from an illness that keeps one from work he or she should contact the Union office immediately and also apply for U.I.C. benefits. For an extended illness the Fund would pay for the first two weeks of’ a waiting period as required by the U.I.C. Then the U.I.C. benefits would start. If the employee is still unable to work after U.I.C. benefits cease, then the Fund would continue benefits for a maximum of twenty weeks during any one 12 month period.
38
Guild.con
4 . There is waiting period required before a benefit is given,. If an individual is receiving U.I.C. benefits, the Fund would pay the first two weeks of the waiting period. If hospitalization occurs or illness extends to five (5) consecutive days; benefits would commence immediately upon approval.
5. No member will receive sick benefits if he or she is receiving Worker's Compensation Benefits for the same illness. If the individual has received an insurance benefit, then they are required to report it to the Union office and the sick benefit may be adjusted.
Maternity Benefit
A maternity benefit of $100.00 is available
for workers who are members of the Union for at least one year, return to work after a reasonable period of time, to the same company and provide a copy of the birth certificate.
Eyeglass Benefit
A member who requires prescription eyeglasses (lenses and/or frames) shall eligible for a benefit of up to $120.00 upon approval of the application. A member may re-apply once every two years to replace their prescription eyeglasses. They must be a member of the Union for six months to be eligible.
Severance Pay
For employees who work for companies that have terminated operations, either completely or in major part, shall be eligible to receive a benefit of $25.00 per year of service to a maximum of $400.00 per individual.
39
Guild.con
Insurance Benef it
The Fund pays the premium for a life insurance policy for all Union members. If members have been in good standing for at least two years prior to death, their estate is entitled to a death benefit insurance of $7,000. Members initiated after age 55 are entitled to a lesser amount. Retirees have a separate policy.
Drug Plan
The Fund offers a drug program for union members and their immediate family. They would be reimbursed for their prescriptions to a maximum of $650.00 per year per immediate family.
Dental Plan
The Fund offers a dental benefit for members, their spouse, and children up to the age of twenty-one years old, only which reimburses members 50 percent for most procedures, to a maximum reimbursement of $1,000 per year.
Each family can receive up to $1,000.00 reimbursement total during each calendar year.
Please Note:
It is important to realize that there are many rules and regulations attached to each benefit which are not listed in this summary. Full details are available from the Union office or by writing to the Fund.
40
Guild.con