TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
ARTICLE 2 • RECOGNITION
ARTICLE 3 • RELATIONSHIP
ARTICLE 4 • MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
ARTICLE 5 - CONTRACTING OUT
ARTICLE 6 - INDIVIDUAL CONTRACTS
ARTICLE 7 • SENIORITY AND PROBATION
ARTICLE 3 • BRIDGING OF SERVICE
ARTICLE 9 - CHECK OFF
ARTICLE 10 - NO STRIKE/NO LOCKOUT
ARTICLE 11 - DISCRIMINATION	.
ARTICLE 13 • ACCESS TO PLANT
ARTICLE 13 “ HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
ARTICLE U - INCENTIVE SYSTEMSAND WAGE RATES
ARTICLE 15 • CHANGE OF OPERATION
ARTICLE 16 - DELAY TIME
ARTICLE 17 - LAY OFF AND RECALL
ARTICLE 13 ■ DISCHARGE AND TERMINATION
ARTICLE 19 - HOLIDAYS
ARTICLE 2 0 • VACATIONS WITH PAY
1
2
2
3
3
3
4
4
5
6
6
7
7
9
12
12
13
13
14
15
ARTICLE 2 1 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
17
CITIZENSHIPDAY EXTENDED ABSENCE UNION BUSINESS ILLNESS OR INJURY MATERNITY LEAVE BEREAVEMENT LEAVE INJURY PAY LAY OFF WHILE LEAVE JURY DUTY
17
17
18 18 18 20 20 20 20
ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23
ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 2 5 ARTICLE 26 ARTICLE 27 ARTICLE 28 ARTICLE 29 ARTICLE 30 ARTICLE 3 1 ARTICLE 32 ARTICLE 3 3 ARTICLE 34
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
HEALTH & WELFARE • RETIREMENT FUNDS
DENTALPLAN
PLANT CLOSURE
PAYDAYS-PAYCHEQUE INFORMATION
PAYROLL EXAMINATION
TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
TRAINING SCHOOLS
UNION LABEL
BULLETIN BOARD
SAVINGS CLAUSE
AMENDMENTS
TERM OF AGREEMENT
RATIFICATION
GENERAL PROVISIONS
21
22
24
24
24
25 25
25
26 26 26 26
28
THIS AGREEMENT made as of the-----day, of Aucrust 200Q
B E T W E E tl
LOCAL 283 of THE WESTERN CANADIAN REGION DISTRICT COVMCl L-UNITE being an unincorporated association with offices located at 978 Notre Dame Avenue, Winnipeg, Manitoba RYE ON3
(hereincalled the "UNION")
and
NYC ARO INTERNATIONAL LTD, at its rnkster/McDermot factory carrying on business at 1300 Church Avenue, Winnipeg, Manitoba R2X 103 ,
(hereincalled the "MANUFACTURER") OF THE SECOND PART.
PREAMBLE;
WHEREAS the Manufacturer is engaged in the manufacture of clothing at its Inkster/McDarmot Factory located at U00 Church Avenue, in the City of Winnipeg, in the Province of Manitoba (hereinreferred to as the "factory") ,
AND WHEREAS the Union is composed of persons engaged in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will be from time to time employed by the Manufacturer in its factory,
AND WHEREAS the Partieshereto are desirous of promoting the principal of collective bargaining, the avoidance of industrial conflicts, and the regulation of relations between the Manufacturer and employees governed by this Agreement for a term and period, the whole as more fully hereinafter referred to:
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREMENT WITNESSETH, that the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
1.01	I n this Agreement:
a)	"ARBITRATOR"	shall mean one of the persons
named in Article 22 hereof.
"AVERAGE HOURLY PAY” shall mean the average amount per hour which an Employee shall have earned attributable to his or her production during, regular working hours during the preceding six (6) month period calculated from the first day of January and the first day of July of each year or portion of six (6) month period if the Employee has been employed less than a six month period with at least three(3) months of service
c)	"EMPLOYEE"	means regular employees in the
bargaining unit and probationary employees;
d)	" (I IARANIEH )HOURT.Y RATE"	shall mean the rate
of wages set out in subparagraph 14.03(b) and subject to the particular Employee's job classification and length of service.
®)	"MANUFACTURER" means the Employer NYGARD
INTERNATIONAL LTD. ;	'
f)	"M-M3ER CF THE UNICN" means a person vtfiose
membership is in good standing with the Union.
"OVERTIME RATE"	shall mean the rate of pay
calculated on the basis of the rate of pay otherwise payable for the work in question plus a premium of one half (1/2) time calculated based on the Enployee's Average Hourly Pay.
PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE" means an employee of the Manufacturer who has not completed the probationary period as provided herein.
i)	"STANDARD HOURS" shall mean forty (40) hours in
any week and eight (8) hours in a day.
EMPLOYEE'	means an employee of the
employer who has completed the probationary period as provided herein and who normally works minimum of 40 hours in any regular work week.
k)	"UNION" means Local 283 of the Western Canadian
Region District Council-UNITE.
2
!•)	"REPRESENTATIVE'' for tile purposes hereof and Of
the Labour Relations Act, "Representative" shall mean WCRDC -UNITE Manager. In order for the WCRDC-UWITS Manager to facilitate his role he may appoint his designate to represent him concerning the day-to-day operations and any other matters that may be assigned to him. In the event that the WCROC-UMZTE Manager as referred to in this article becomes no longer employed by the Union, the representative shall be the person appointed by the International President of the Union.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
The Manufacturer recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent on behalf of all regular employees employed in the factory save and except for Supervisors, Assistant supervisors and those above the rank of Supervisor, office and related personnel and persons performing jobs in Shipping, Receiving and Distribution, Mechanical and Maintenance Repairs, Quality Control; Watchmen; Janitorial services and other jobs which now exist or which may be created in the future and are not primarily production line related.
2.02	The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall
apply to the Manufacturer1 s	and MeOeroot factory
located at L 300 Church Avenue, In the City of Winnipeg, in the Province of Manitoba.
2.03	It is expressly understood and agreed that in respect of all matters relating to this Agreement, or renewal thereof, or in respect of any related matter, the Manufacturer in its relationshipswith the Union, shall not be required to consult with or deal with any person other than the Representative of the Union or the Shop Chairperson. Where the parties agree it is impractical or inappropriate for the Representative of the Union or the Shop Chairperson to consult with or deal with the manufacturer on a particular matter, the Representative may designate another person to consult with or deal with the manufacturer on the particular matter.
MTIOIZ 3 - RSLATIOHSRIP
Any employee in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement shall, upon completion of the probationary period as provided for herein, become a member of the Union
3
MVTICL3 4 - MANAGEMENT.RIGHTS
4*01	The Union recognizes and acknowledges that, in all
respects, except to the extent expressly abridged or modified by a specific provision of this agreement, the management and conduct of the operation of the business, and the employment and direction of the work force, are the responsibility of the Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 3 - CONTRACTING .OUT
The Manufacturer agrees that work normally performed by employees within the bargaining unit shall be performed by employees in the bargaining unit, and shall continue to be so performed by employees within the bargaining unit provided that employees qualified to perform the work are available.
5*02	The Manufacturer may contract out work where for
sound business reasons it is necessary to do so, however it is the desire of the parties that to the extent it is consistent with sound business reasons, any contracting out shall not be done in such a way as to cause the lay-off, replacement, or reduction in regular earnings of any regular employee directly affected in the bargaining unit.
5*03	Where there exists regular employees on lay-off,
subject to the sound business reasons referred to in 5.02, those employees on lay-off shall first be offered the opportunity of performing such work referred to herein, provided they have the required skills and ability, and are available when required.
5.04	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, no
homework shall be sent out or permitted.
ARTICLE.$__^_INDIYIDUAL CONTRACTS
<•01	The Manufacturer shall not hereafter make any
individual contracts or agreements with an employee in the bargaining unit, nor exact or accept any cash deposits or other security from such employee.
4
ARTICLE 7 - SENIORITY AND PROBATION
7,41	Seniority is defined, for the purposes of this
Agreement, as the length of service of a regular employee tn the bargaining unit and shall be applied as provided for in the Agreement.
7,44	Any person employed by the Manufacturer shall be
considered probationary for the first thirty (30) days worked. The Manufacturer has the option of extending the probationary period another ten (10)days worked.
7.03	An employee shall have no seniority rights during
the period of probation. Upon expiration of the probationary period as hereinbefore provided, the employee shall be considered a regular employee and the seniority of such employee shall date back to the date on which the employment commenced.
The dismissal, lay-off or failure to recall after lay-off of a probationary employee shall not be the subject of a grievance.
7.05	An employee's seniority shall be forfeited with no
obligation on the Employer to renire such employee in the event of any on of the following Occurrences:
a)	If the employee quits voluntarily, or .	, b) If the employee is discharged ana not re-
instated through the grievance or arbitration procedure; or If the employee is absent from work for more than six (6) months because of illness unless he provides a written doctor's report to the Employer within one (1) month prior to the aforesaid six (6) month period, stating the employee is expected to be able to return to work and resume his full duties within the six (6) month period following such report, and he does so return to work, or
d)	If the employee retires.
ARTICLE 8 - BRIDGING 07 SERVICE
3,4i	With respect to vacations, any employee's prior
servicewith the Manufacturer shall be bridged upon rehire, provided that the employee has worked a minimum of three (3) years out of the preceding ten (10) years, In addition, all service by any employee within the ten (10) year period from the initial date of hire shall be bridged.
5
8.02	With respect to accumulation of seniority for the
purposes of lay-off and recall, any employee after three (3) years of continuous service with the Manufacturer shall be bridged, up to the preceding ten (10) years.
ARTICLE 9 - CHECK OFF
The Manufacturer shall, on a monthly basis, deduct from the wages of each regular employee in the bargaining unit, the amount of the regular membership dues payable by a member of the union, and shall remit the amounts deducted to the Union in Winnipeg by the last day of that month.
The Manufacturer shall, at the request of the Union deduct from the wages of an employee who is a member of the Union, initiation fees, and assessments and shall remit the amounts to the Union, in Winnipeg not later than the thirtieth (30th) day of the same month.
The Union agrees that it shall not be the responsibility of the Manufacturer to deduct or collect arrears of dues from any newly hired employee, who was an employee of another manufacturer, provided that any arrears of dues of an employee which occur during the period of employment with the Manufacturer shall be deducted by the Manufacturer.
The Manufacturer agrees that if the Union provides to the Manufacturer signed authorization from any individual, authorizing the deduction of any such arrears which they accumulated while not in the employ of the Manufacturer, the Manufacturer will so deduct them.
The Union shall notify the Manufacturer in writing of any change in the amounts of regular monthly membership dues, and of any initiation fees, arrears, or assessments at least one (1)month in advance of the end of the pay period in which the deductions are to be made.
The Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Manufacturer from any and all claims, demands and proceedings that may arise from making any of the deductions aforesaid.
6
ARTTCT.E 10 - NO STRIKE/WO LOCKOUT
io. 01 During the currency of the Agreement:
1) The Union agrees that it will not declare, cause, direct, authorize, or consent to, or threaten any strike on the part of the employees, and that there will be no strike of any employees.
No employee or employees in the bargaining unit shalrcause, direct, authorize, consent to, or threaten or take part in a strike.
3) The Manufacturer agrees that it will not declare, cause, direct, authorize, or consent to a lockout of any employees and there will be no lockout of any employees.
10.02	For the purpose of this Agreement, the words
"lockout" and "strike" used herein, shall include the definitionof lockout and strike as set out in the Labour Relations Act of Manitoba.
ARTICLE 11 - DISCRIMINATION
11.01	The Manufacturer shall not ezercise or permit discrimination of any kind against any employee by reason of any employee's past or present lawful union activities, and the Union shall not erercise or permit discrimination of any kind against the Manufacturer by reason of its past or present lawful activities in relation to the Union,
The manufacturer and the Union further agree that they will not discriminate against any employee of the Manufacturer or member of the Union or applicant for employment because of race, creed, colour, national origin, sex, age, sexual preference, marital status, or disability; making allowance for the pursuance of a government initiated Employment Equity Program.
The Manufacturer agrees there shall be no differential in pay for equal work between female and male employees.
7
ARXICLE-.12—T—ACCESS—TQ..PLAflT
During the currency of this agreement, the duly authorized Representative of the Union shall at all reasonable time, have access to the business premises of the Manufacturer as provided herein for the purposes, which shall be disclosed to the Manufacturer, of dealing with any specific complaint, condition, or matter arising out of or pertaining to this agreement or its implementation or to determine compliance with the terms of this agreement.
ARTICLE 1? - HOURS QE__WQRK_AM)_OVBRTIMB
X 3 i 0 i	Hours of work for the first shift shall be eight
(8) hours per day, Monday through Friday starting at 7‘,00 a/ra- and ending at 3 130 p>5b with an unpaid interval of one half (1/2) hour as a meal break.
15)02	Hours of work for the second shift, if designated
by the Manufacturer, shall be seven and three-quarters
(7 3/4) hours per day, Monday through Friday, beginning at 3:30 p i jfi i and ending at 11:45 p.m. with an unpaid interval of one half (1/2) hour as a meal break.
13i03	Hours of work for the third shift, if designated
by the Manufacturer, shall be seven and one-half (7 1/21 hours beginning at Hi 00 p.ffli on Sunday and ending at 7:00 a.m. on Monday and six and three-quarters /6 3/4) hours per day Monday through Thursday comma no ing at 11:45 p > a» and ending at 7:00 a,!iu
There shall be a paid rest period of ten (10) minutes during the first half of each shift and ten (10) minutes during the second half of each shift worked.
All hours worked in excess of Standard Hours shall be considered overtime hours and shall be paid at the Overtime Rate.
12)04	Any request for overtime work shall be made to the
Employes (s) at least four (4) hours in advance, except in the event of an emergency.
13 *07	The Manufacturer may request an Employee to work
overtime and any such Employee shall co-operate with the Manufacturer in working the requested overtime, but no Employee shall be discriminated against in any way for declining to work such overtime.
8
The available overtime hours, whenever practicable, shall be divided equally amoncj those Employees who regularly work on the operation for which the overtime is required.
All hours worked on a Saturday shall be considered overtime hours and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one half (1 1/2) ■
a)	All hours worked on Sunday shall be paid double time (excludinglnkstsr, 3rd shift, that work on Sunday evening) .
All overtime rates shall be calculated on the basis of the average hourly earnings for the week in which the overtimewas worked, exclusive of the overtime hours, and the said average hourly earnings shall include the increases herein provided for.
13.11 The following conditions shall be applied in determining overtime hours:
a)	Employees shall not punch in any earlier than fifteen (15)minutes before the beginning of their scheduled shift unless expressly authorized by their immediate supervisor;
If an Employee punches in any earlier than fifteen (15)minutes before the beginning of the shift as requested in writing and authorized by the Employee's immediate supervisor, such Employee will be eligible for overtime pay after completing eight (8) hours of work on any such regular work day and the regular hours of work for the shift shall be available to be worked by such Employee;
Employees who are required by the Manufacturer to commence their work day at any time after the scheduled beginning of the shift shall be paid the Overtime Rate for all hours worked after the scheduled end of the shift of that day;
j Employees who commence work at any time after the scheduled beginning of the shift without the permission of the Manufacturer or at the request of the Manufacturer shall only qualify for overtime pay on that day after completing eight (8) hours of work.
13.12 All Employees called into work shall be supplied with at least four (4) hours of continuous work or paid for at least four (4) hours at their Guaranteed Hourly Rate.
9
A premium of fifteen (15) minutes per day shall be paid to Employees working on the second shift or third shift, subject to the condition that the Employee works the entire shift.
ARTICLE 14 - INCENTIVE BTBTEM8 AfO WAOB RATES
14.01	All employment during the currency of this Agreement shall be psrformad on an incentive basis based upon standards determined by Management.
The Manufacturer shall set the standard for each operation or group of operations and in determining the standard, each operation or group of operations shall be set to yield the employee an earning opportunity commensurate with the yield at 100% of the minute value.
Particulars of the piecework rates and standards shall be furnished by the Manufacturer to the Union upon request, and the schedule of piecework rates and standards shall be kept at the Manufacturer's office, easily accessible to the Shop Chairperson.
14,04	If an employee feels that a piecework rate or
standard Is inadequate, the employee shall, follow the grievance procedure as set out in Article 22.
14.0!	In addition to the rights contained in the
grievance procedures as set out in Article 22, a union engineer shall have the right to check piecework rates twice a year after consultation with the Manufacturer, as to the time and day of such appointment.
In the event of any dispute on piecework rates or standards, any employee affected by the piecework rate or standard shall continue to work at the existing rate or standard until the dispute Is settled, and in the event of any adjustment of the piecework rate or standard upon the settlement, the adjustment shall be made retroactively to the date of the grievance as between the Manufacturer and the employee.
The Manufacturer agrees that work on duplicates shall be paid for as follows:
a) Duplicates, whenever possible, shall be made on a piecework basis; however, if no piecework rate has been established an estimated rate shall be supplied by the Manufacturer. It is understood by the parties hereto that in those circumstances where allowances have previously been given, this former practice shall continue.
10
db)	It Is understood that in no event shall the pay
uplicates be less than the arployee's guaranteed hourly rate of pay.
c The manufacturer agrees that work on duplicates shall be paid average rate.
14.08	A PIECE WORKERS RATES
piece Workers McDeraot / Inkster
PRESSER Increase Minute Value S.Opportunity
Mar.5/00
.16
.1377
$8.26
Mar. 5/01	Mar. 5/02
.07
.1388
$8.33
.07
.1400
$8.40
BUTTON SEWER/Presser
Increase	.20
Minute Value .1342 E.Opportunity $8.05
SPREADERS
Increase	.20
Minute Value .1428 E.opportunity $8.57
BUNDLERS/CSR3ER OPERATORS Increase	,17
Minute Value .1277 E.Opportunlty $7.66
FUSERS/TAGGER EXAM
Increase	.21
Minute Value ,1263 E.Opportunlty $7.58
CUTTERS
Increase	.26
Minute Value ,1840 E.Opportunlty $11.04
.05
.1350
$8.10
.06
.1438
$8.63
.05
.1285
$7.71
.07
.1275
$7.65
.03
.1853
$11.12
.05
.1358
$8.15
.05
.1447
$8.68
.05
.1293
$7.76
.06
.1285
$7.71
.06
.1863
$11.18
$6.70	$6.75
$6.80
SERVICE PERSON
11
B. GUARANTEE RATES
McDernot/Inkster
Presser Button Sewer Presser Spreader
Bundler/Gerber Oper Fuser
Tagger/Exam.
Cutter
Mar.5/00
6.65
6.65
6.65
6.65
6.65
6.30
6.30 8.70
Mar. 5/01
6.70
6.70
6.75
6.75
6.75
6.40
6.40 8.85
Mar.5/02
6.75
6.75
6.75
6.75
6.75
6.40
6.40 8.85
March 5, 2000 SKO/Under Presser Button Sewer Presser Spreader
Bund/Gerber Op Fuser
Tagger/Exam
Cutter
START
$6.20
6.20
6.20
6.20
6.20
6.10
6.10
7.80
6 MONTHS $6.40
6.40
6.40
6.40
6.40 6.20 6.20 8.20
1 YEAR $6.65
6.65
6.65
6.65
6.65
6.30
6.30 8.70
March 5, 2 001 SM0/UnderPresser
Button Sewer Presser
Spreader
Bund/Gerber op
Fuser
Tagger/Exam
Cutter
START
$6.20
6,20
6.20
6.20
6.20
6.10
6.10
7.90
_6_MONTHS $6.45
6.45
6.45
6.45
6.45 6.20 6.20 8.30
1 V SAR $6.70
6.70
6.70 6.75
6.70
6.40
6.40 8.85
March 5, 2002 SMO/Under Presser Button Sewer Presser Spreader
Bund/Gerber Op Fuser
Tagger/Exam
Cutter
START
$6.20
6.20
6,20
6.20
6.20
6.10
6.10
8.00
6 MONTHS $6.50
6.50
6.50
6.50
6.50 6.20 6.20 8.40
1 YEAR $6.75
6.75
6.75
6.75
6.75
6.40
6.40 8.85
14.09 DAILY WAGE FREEZE
The company agrees that its computation of each empl0yee's comparative earnings from piecework will be computed on a daily wage.
12
H.10 Should there be an increase in the Provincial minimum wage during the term of this Agreement, employees concerned by this Agreement shall upon completion of probation, receive no less than five (,05) cents above the provincial minimum wage as their guaranteed hourly rate.
ARTICLE IS • CHANGE OF OPERATION
When an operator is transferred to an alternate operation, the operator can be paid on a split incentive bonus to enable the operator to reach a piecework level.
Where the split incentive system cannot be implemented and the request for a transfer is made at a time when the employee has work at her operation piecework average shall be paid.
Where the split incentive system cannot be implemented and the employee has no work on her operation, the employee shall be paid her guaranteed hourly rate.
15.04	CROSS TRAINING
The Company shall select employees to be cross trained on the basis of departmental seniority and competence as determined by the Manufacturer. Those employees will be paid eighty (8 0) hours at their current piecework average during their training period, Upon completion of the training period they will be paid the base rate of the j ob they perform. A list of cross trained employees will be made available by the Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 14 - DELAY TIME
All pieceworkers shall be compensated for time lost by reason of waiting for work and/or for machine down time in the following manner:
In the event that the waiting time ini/or machine down time exceeds a cumulative total in any day of fifteen (15)minutes, the employee affected shall be paid from minute one for the total amount of waiting time and/or machine down time at the employee's guaranteed hourly rate, which shall be in addition to the employee's piecework earnings.
13
ARTICLE 17 - LAY OFF AND RECALL
In the event of a lay off of employees by the Manufacturer, the employees affected will be determined by the Manufacturer on the basis of departmental seniority and competency, as determined by the manufacturer.
In the event of a lay off of employees, of more than two weeks duration, the employees affected shall be given one week's notice of lay off or pay in lieu of such notice.
In the event that an employee is laid off, the employee shall be given an approximate date of recall.
17.04 The Manufacturer agrees to inform the Shop Chairperson or designated Shop Committee member of all lay oiis m excess of one day, ana In the event that the lay off 13 for a period of more than two (2) weeks, the Manufacturer shall discuss the details with a Union Representative as far Ln advance of the lay off date as is possible.
Employees who have been laid off shall be recalled before any new employees are hired, upon the basis of seniority, provided the employees on lay off are qualified and competent to do the available work, and employees on lay off for a period of more than two (2) weeks, shall be entitled to at least one week's notice of recall in writing.
In the event that an employee obtains work elsewhere while on lay-off, the employee shall not forfeit the right of recall.
ARTICLE 18 - DIBCHARQB AND TERMINATION
13,01	Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, no regular employee shall be discharged by the Manufacturer except for just cause. Just cause shall include, but not be limited to the following:
a\ Disclosure of confidential employer information, deliberate falsificationof any report or records, including applications for employment,personnel records, time cards, gum sheets and piecework tickets; without the prior consent or acquiescence of the employer.
b)	Theft or unauthorized removal of property from the Employer's premises.
14
Deliberate tampering, sabotage or destruction of Employer's property.
The Manufacturer shall notify the Union of the discharge of any regular employee.
I	that an employee has been unjustly
discharged, the employee may file a grievance in accordance with the provisions of Article 22, within five (5) working days from the date of discharge.
In the event of the discharge of a regular employee the Arbitrator on any arbitration on the matter shall have the right to sustain the Manufacturer's action, or t o reinstate the employee with full, part or no back pay, or t o settle the matter in any way deemed just and equitable.
18,05	N) employee (s) shall terminate his, her or their
employment except on two (2) wash's notice to the Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 19 - HOLIDAYS
a) The following holidays shall be observed, and subject to the provisions herein, all employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid a regular day's pay, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours for such holidays, whether or not such holidays fall on a working day, or non-working day of any week, or during any non-working week.
New Years Day Good Friday ' Victoria Day Canada Day
Civic Day" (IstMon.in Aug.)
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Remembrance Day
In the event that any one of the foregoing holidays sft'all fall on a regular work day other than a Monday or a Friday, the date for the observance of such holiday shall be changed, with the consent of a majority of the membership, to either a Monday or Friday of the week in which the said holiday falls.
No employees shall be compelled to work on any of the foregoing holidays.
19.03	ISb employee shall be compelled to work on any
other legal or bona fide religious holiday, nor shall they be paid for them.
15
A new employee shall not be entitled to payment for any holiday on which he or she does not work if she has not earned wages for part or all of each day for fifteen (15) days during the thirty (CSO) calendar days immediately preceding tne general holiday.
eligible employee shall receive holiday pay, provided that while work is available, such employee works 13 of the 3 0 calendar days before the holiday and such employee works both the scheduled work day before and the scheduled work day after the holiday, unless such employee la absent for justifiable cause, and such employee has worked within the time period of seven (7) calendar days before or twenty-one (21) calendar days after the holiday. For the purpose of this Article, "justifiable cause" shall mean any of the following:	"sickness, lay-off, or
vacation".
19.06	Any employee who terminates their employment during the calendar week in which a holiday occurs, without giving two (2) week's notice, shall not be entitled to payment for such holiday.
Subject to the provisions herein, the payment of holiday pay for all hourly time employees shall be up to a maximum of eight (8) hours times their then guaranteed hourly rate, and the payment of holiday pay for all piecework employees shall be up to a maximum of eight (8) times ttoeir then average hourly rate.
19.0	6	In the event that any employee is requested to
work and performs any work on any of the aforesaid holidays, such emplo ee shall be paid holiday pay at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) of their guaranteed hourly rate, in addition to the regular payment for such holiday.
The payment for holidays which fall on a Saturday or Sunday shall be based on the pay for the day on which the holiday is observed.
ARTICLE 20 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
All vacation pay provided for herein shall be paid directly to each employee by the Manufacturer on or before June 30th each year during the currency of this Agreement.
16
20.02	Employees concerned by this Agreement shall be
entitled to an annual vacation and vacation pay in accordance with the following categories.
a) Employees who, a t December 31st. in any year during the currency of this Agreement, have less than one (1)year of service shall receive vacation pay calculated at the rate of four percent (4%) of their total gross earnings which shall include holiday pay earned during their period of employment with the Manufacturer for the period ending December 31st in any year, and a vacation on a pro rata basis.
. Employees who at December 31st in any year during the currency of this Agreement have completed one (l^year or more of service are entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay calculated at the rate of four percent (4%) of their total gross earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include holiday pay earned during the year ending December 31st in any year.
c) Employees who at December 31st In any year during
the currency of this Agreement have completed four (4) or more years of service are entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay calculated ati the rate of six percent (6%) of their total gross earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include holiday pay earned during the year ending December 31st in any year.
Employees who at December 31st in any year during the currency of this Agreement have completed twelve (12) years or more of service are entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay calculated at the rate of eight percent (8%)of their total gross earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include holiday pay earned during the year ending December 31st in any year.
20,03	The Manufacturer shall circulate a vacation
calendar no later than January 01st of each year and shall maintain the circulation of the vacation calendar unti 1 February 28th of each year. A 1 1 employees who have vacation entitlement for the coming year may apply for vacation in accordance with their seniority. The vacation calendar shall indicate the number of employees who can be spared from each department at any one time and the employees shall write their dates in the blanks on the calendar when it is their turn according to the seniority list. Once an employee has so indicated a choice, the employee cannot make a change until the calendar has been fully circulated within the bargaining unit.
17
In determining length of service for the purpose of this Article, absences due to lay off or leave of absences for reason of health or maternity as provided for in this Agreement shall not be deducted in the calculation of length of service.
ARTICLE 21 - LEAVES OF AB8BNCB
CITI2BH8HIP PAY
I	that any regular employee is required
to be absent from work due to their becoming a citizen of Canada, that Regular Employee shall be entitled to be paid at his or her Guaranteed Hourly Rate of Pay for the hours necessary to t« absent from work to complete the process of becoming a Canadian citizen, said payment to be to a maximum of four (4) hours.
EITBHPEB.ftBgEWCB
a) A regular employee shall be entitled to request a leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority after completion of three (3) years of continuous service. An employee must request leave of absence in writing with a copy to the Union at least three (3) months prior to leave. The Manufacturer shall respond to the request no later than two (2) weeks after the request for leave.
b)	Employee shall be entitled to request a leave of absence for up to six (6) weeks (not including vacation).
c)	The Manufacturer shall take the request for leave under consideration depending on production requirements, availability of a replacement and the number of other employees scheduled for vacation or leave of absence at that time and the purpose for the leave. Whm more than one (1) request for leave of absence is submitted for the same period, the senior employee (s) w i 11 be given preference.
Permissions for the leave, if granted must be approved by the Manufacturer in writing and a copy of the decision given to the employee and the Union.
e)	Leave taken under this sectionmust be separated by at least three (3) years of continuous service.
IB
UNION BU8INEB9
21,9? a) In the event that a Leave of Absence is requested by an employee to attend a Union Convention, the Manufacturer shall grant Leave of Absence to no more than three (3) employees from any one facility for a period of time not exceeding five (5) working days, provided notice is given to the Manufacturer in writing at least two (2) weeks prior to the cofwasncoraent of the Leave of Absence.
hi In the event that the Leave of Absence is requested by an employee for other Union business, the Manufacturer shall grant Leave of Absence to ho more than two (2) employees from any one facility at any one time, provided notice is given to the Manufacturer in writing at least two (2) weeks prior to the commencement of the Leave of Absence for other Union business in excess of ten (10) working days during any twelve (12) month period.
ILI.NES3 OR INJURY
21.04	a) In the event a Leave of Absence is requested
by an employes by reason of illness or injury, and which request Is supported by a certificate of a duly qualified medical practitioner, the Manufacturer shall grant a Leave of Absence to the employee for up to 6 months, which absence may be extended in accordance with clause 7.05 (c) hereof, and any employees who are so absent shall retain seniority during such permitted leave.
b)	Further, any employees who are absent due to injury or illness for up to three (3) months shall be reinstated in all respects by the Manufacturer in the position previously occupied by the employee, or in a comparable position with all increments of wages and benefits to which the employee would have piecework shall be credited with their average rate of pay at the time of illness or injury, upon their return to work until a new average has been earned.
MATERNITY LEAVE
2 1.05 a) Every female employee, who submits to the Manufacturer an application, in writing, for Maternity Leave at least four (4) weeks before the day specified by her in the application as the day on which she intends to commence such leave, and who provides the manufacturer with a certificate of a duly qualified medical practitioner, certifying that she is pregnant and specifying the estimated date of her delivery, shall be granted Maternity Leave without pay as hereinafter set out.
19
. . The Maternity Leave shall consist of a period not exceecnng 17 weeks, if delivery occurs on or before the date of delivery specified in the medical certificate mentioned above, or a period of 17 weeks plus an additional period equal to the period between the date of delivery specified in the medical certificate and the actual date of delivery, if delivery occurs after the date mentioned in the certificate.
c)	Maternity Leave granted t o a female employee as set out herein shall commence no earlier than 11 weeks preceding the date specified in the medical Certificate and shall terminate no later than 17 weeks following the actual date of delivery.
* The Company agrees to whatever new legislation will come into effect January 1, 2001.
j. Hothwithatanding that any female employee does not apply for Maternity Leave as hereinbefore provided, she is nevertheless entitled to and shall be granted Leave for a period not exceeding the period of Maternity Leave to which she is entitled hereunder.
. In the event that an employee having been granted Maternity Leave a s provided herein, and, for reasons related to the birth or the termination of pregnancy as certified by a duly qualified medical practitioner, is unable to work or having returned to work upon expiration of the Maternity Leave is unable to continue to work, the Manufacturer shall grant to such employee further periods of Leave of Absence from work, without pay, up to an additional six (6) consecutive weeks.
f)	Any employee who returns to work upon the expiration of Maternity Leave as provided for in this Article, shall be reinstated in all respects by the Manufacturer in the position previously occupied by the employee if the position is available, and if the position is not available the employee shall have a first priority on the individual position if and when it becomes available the employee shall be placed in a comparable position to the original position, with all the increments to wages and benefits to which the employee would have been entitled had the Leave not been taken.
20
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
21. OS	a)	Three (3) days off with pay within the first
seven (7) days following death, shall be given to any employee upon the death of their spouse, parent, child, brother or sister.
One (1)day off with pay within the first seven (7) days following death, shall be given to any employee upon the death of a grandchild, or grandparent, mother/father in-law.
Pay for such leave shall be at the average hourly pay of each employee.
.. Bereavement Pay shall not be paid while an employee is* on lay-off, sick leave, maternity leave, leave of absence or vacation.
INJURY PAY
An Employee, if injured in the shop and requires medical attention at a location outside of the Manufacturer's premises, shall receive compensation for the time lost from work, up to a maximum of four (4) hours, calculated at the guaranteed pay, for the first day of the accident.
LAY OFF WHILE ON LEAVE
If an employee would be subject to lay-off according to the provisions of this Agreement during the period of his Leave, he shall be notified thereof immediately and his Leave shall be converted to a lay-off. If an employee becomes subject to recall before the Leave would have expired, the Leave shall be reinstated and the employee may return to work in accordance with the recall provisions of this Agreement upon the expiration of the Leave.
JURY DUTY
21.09	The Company agrees to pay $40.00 9 day, for a
maximum of five (5) days; employees only qualify for this payment if selected to serve on a Jury.
21
ARTICLE 22 - flRTBVAMCB PROrF.niTRF.S
A grievance shall be a controversy between the Manufacturer and any regular employee over the interpretation of or adherence to the terms of this agreement.
22 >02	The employee along with the Shop Chairperson or a
representative of the Union shall first discuss the complaint with the employee's supervisor. There will be no grievance until the supervisor has had an opportunity to discuss the matter with the employee and the Shop Chairperson or representative of the Union.
StSP-A
If settlement is not reached after the discussion the grievance shall be submitted in writing to the Production Manager by the employee within five (5) days after the incident giving rise to the grievance. The grievance shall contain:
-a description of the problem and sections of the agreement allegedly violated -a statement of remedy sought -the date of submission -the employee's signature.
The Production Manager or her designate will respond in writing to the grievance, within five (5)days, to the union representative.
step.2
22.05	If settlement is not reached under step 1 within
five (5) days of the Production Manager's response, the grievance shall be submitted to the Manufacturer which will respond in writing, within ten (10) days, to the union representative,
StgR_3
22.08	If settlement is not reached under step 2 within
five (5) days after the date of the written response of the Manufacturer it m^1 be referred by either party to a single arbitrator. If the parties fail to agree upon an arbitrator within five (5) working days after one party has served notice on the other party of its intention to refer the matter to an arbitrator, each shall name three (3) names to the other to be considered as an arbitrator.
22
a) If the parties fail to reach agreement on an arbitrator within five (5) working days after the date of the referral to arbitration, they shall request the Minister of Labour to appoint same.
. . Whm the appointment of an arbitrator has been concluded, the arbitrator shall have the power to determine whether the matter before him Is arbitrable. Having made the determination that the arbitrator has jurisdiction, the arbitrator shall hear and determine the differences and shall issue a decision and that decision shall be final and binding upon the parties.
The arbitrator shall only rule on explicit provisions of the agreement. He shall not have jurisdiction to amend or add to any of the provisions of this agreement nor to give any decision inconsistent with the conditions of this agreement.
The expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties.
22.09	If the Union or a griever fails to present a grievance to the next step within the prescribed time, the grievance shall be deemed to have been abandoned, unless and extension of the prescribed time limit is agreed upon by the Union and the Manufacturer in writing.
22.10	For the purpose of time frame specified in this article, the word "days "will refer to working days.
No grievance may proceed to arbitration without the approval of the representative of the Union.
ARTICLE 2 3 - FFATIIH i WELFARE - RETIREMENT ?TOP3 - DSHTAti
a)	The parties agree that until the provisions are amended as provided herein, the Health and Welfare Fund previously established by the Union and the Manufacturers shall be continued in accordance with the rules and regulations as amended March, 2000 governing the Funds; wherein a Board of Trustees has been provided for , the Union has been designated as the Trustees of the Fund, with two (2) additional Trustee who is selected at arms length.
b)	The Fund name is designated as:	"Western
Canadian Region I.L.G.W.U. Consolidated Wealth and Welfare Fund. "
23
a)	The parties agree that until the provisions
are amended as provided herein, the Retirement Fund previously established by the Union and Manufacturers shall be continued in accordance with the amended deed of trust dated March 16, 1996, in compliance with the Pension Benefits Act, of Manitoba and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the fund, wherein a Board of Trustees of the Fund with two (2) additional Trustee who are selected at anas length.
b)	The Fund name is designated as:	''Western
Canadian Region I.L.G.W.U* Consolidated Retirement Fund**1
23*03	The parties agree that when appropriate the by-
laws of the Health and Welfare Fund and the retirement Fund will be amended to provided joint administration of the funds by the Union and the contributing employers.
During the currency of this agreement the manufacturer agrees to pay to the said Funds on a monthly basis, the following amount, calculated on the total gross weekly payroll of the Union members in its employment, which gross weekly payroll shall include payments for holiday pay.
A Effective " March 5, 19 9 4
Health and Welfare Fund	1.25%
Retirement Fund
Total	4,75%
All Funds contribution payments to be paid in
respect of the Health and Welfare and Retirement Fund shall be paid into the Union office no later than the 30th day of the following month.
23*06	Until such time as the amendments to the by-laws
of the Health and Welfare Fund and the Retirement Fund as set forth in sub-paragraph 23 * 03 herein, are enacted, the Board of Trustees shall invite to attend each and every of its meetings, one "non-VOting" representative from amongst the contributing employers who are situated in the particular city the said Board of Trustees have selected as the location for the holding of the aforesaid meeting.
23*07	That at such t ime as the aforesaid by-laws
referred to in sub-paragraph 23.03 are amended, the employer shall, at that time, pay to the said funds, on a monthly basis, a combined contribution which shall be equal to the sun of 4 3/49 cal culated on the total gross weekly payroll of the union members, in its employment, which gross weekly payroll shall include payments for holiday pay.
24
23.08	NTOARD DENIAL GROUP INSURANCE
A)	The Company agrees that effective the date of
ratification, each employee and his/her dependent shall be covered by the dental plan a t no premium cost to the employee.
Any newly hired employee, after the signing of this collective, agreement will be subject to a six (6) months eligibility period for coverage of the dental plan.
C)	The dental plan is a 100* coverage of basic and
essential dental work with a limit of $1,000.00 per year per family member.
The Company shall supply each member with dental forms and a copy of the rules and regulations of the dental plan.
ARTICLE 24 - PAYDAYS - PAY CHEQUE IN70RHATIQN
24.01	Paydays shall be fixed as every second Friday with
provisions for Holidays occurring on the specified pay day.
The Manufacturer shall furnish to each employee each payday the following information:
a) Date of Pay
b>	s worked, during the preceding
period including overtime
c)	Gross wages earned
d)	Particulars and amount of deductions from such pay; and
e)	Net amount of wages paid.
Upon written request from the Union to the Manufacturer, the above information shall be provided to the Union, but no more than twice a year.
25
KRTTCLB 25 - PAVR01.I. EXAMINATION
25.01	The parties agree that the Chicn's accountants, namely the Chartered Accountancy firm of Doane and Raymond, may examine such books and records of the Manufacturer containing the data relating to the payroll of the employees in the bargaining unit, the computation of the contributions made by the Manufacturer to the various funds referred to herein, and with the observance of pay made to the employees in the bargaining unit.
25.02	The examination provided for herein shall be conducted at the Manufacturer's place of business.
The union may exercise its rights under this provision once in any calendar year upon giving one months' notice to the Manufacturer to this effect.
ARTICLE 26 — TOOLS AND EOUIPMEHT
Any employee who receives scissors, tools or equipment from the Manufacturer shall sign for them upon receipt, and upon request of the Manufacturer, or upon termination of employment, or upon taking a Leave of Absence, the employee shall return such scissors, tools or equipment received, to the Manufacturer.
In the event that such scissors, tools or equipment received by an employee are not returned by the employee to the Manufacturer, the Manufacturer shall deduct the cost of such scissors, tools or equipment from the employee's pay.
ARTICLE 27 - TRAINING 3CH00L8
The Manufacturer agrees to notify the Union of the particulars of any training school prior to the commencement of any training school and shall, on an ongoing basis, provide the Union with the names of all trainees who have spent a minimum of two (2) weeks in the training school; it being understood and agreed that any period of time in a training program for new employees shall not be considered a part of the probationary period provided for in this Agreement.
26
RRTTCT.F. 2ft - UNION LABgfr
2 8.01 The Manufacturer shall have stamped into every garment madeby it, the [, L, C ,« , <J. insignia. The Manufacturer shall purchase the stamp and shall pay a royalty fee to the union in the amount of ^ooo.oo per year representing labels for all garments produced by the Manufacturer and falling under the l.L.c.w.U, in Winnipeg, including but not limited to Church, (MeOsnooi;, inKater and Adelaide), -3 h ^ LnbJ.cd and Nofcrs Dame factories.
ARTICLE 2 9 - BULLETIN BOARD
2 9.01 The Manufacturer shall provide the Union with bulletin boards to be used for the purposes of the Union, No notice shall be posted on such bulletin boards without first receiving the approval of the Production Manager, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE 3 0 - SAVINGS ClflP9S
Should any clause or provision of this Agreement be declared illegal or in any way conflict with any laws of the Province of Manitoba or any regulation thereof! both parties agree that this Agreement shall be automatically amended to comply with such law or regulation, U the law or regulation so requires. The remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.
The waiver of any of the provisions of the Agreement or the breach of any of its provisions by either of the parties shall not constitute a precedent for any further waiver or for the enforcement of any further breach.
ARTICLE 31 - AMENDMENTS
31.01	This Agreement may be amended by written agreement and authorization of both parties or their successors.
27
ARTICLE 32 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
32.01	This Agreement shall be effective aa of the 5th
4ay of March. 2000r and shall continue In fnl 1 force and eTIeUC Up to the Close of business on tfTI 4th day of March. 20Q5, and from year to year thereafter, unless Written ' notice of intention to teminata or amend this Agreement is given by either party to the other at any time or before the 5th day of January in any year which this agreement expires.
5 year contract for any clauses that pertain to wording, benefits etc. March 200Q to March 2005, However, on March 2003 the parties agree to meet and negotiate monetary articles of this agreement specifically:
Article 14.08(a) - Pieceworkers Rates
(b) - Guarantees Rates/Servlca Person Article 19 - Holidays Article 20 ■ Vacation with pay Article 21 - Bereavement leave Article 23 - Health 4 Welfare and retirement and Dental benefits.
ARTICLB 33 - RATIFICATION
33,01	This Agreement is subject to the ratification of
the members of the Union employed at the 1300 Church Avenue, in the City of Winnipeg, Manitoba (McDernot and Inkster employees).
28
ARTICLE 34 - OBWERAL RROyiOIONg
The article and section ti ties are for convenience and shall in no event be construed to affect or modify any part of the provisions of this Agreement or be construed as part thereof.
Where in this Agreement the singular, the feminine, or the masculine has been used, it shall be deemed to include the plural or neuter or opposite gender as the case may be wheresoever the context of this Agreement requires.
34.03	Time shall in all respects be the essence of this Agreement.
34.04	This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have signed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
LOCAL 288 of the WCRDC-

'J
Bargaining Committee of LOCAL 288 of the WCRDC-UNITR
i c-g-*-1—



NYGARD INTERNATIONAL LTD
Maaarandua of Understanding
Between:
Local 288 of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union (I.L.C.W.U, )
(Referred to herein as "Local 288")
978 Notra Dame Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 0N3
- and-
Nygard international Ltd.
"McDermot Production"
(Referredto herein as the "Company")
1771 Inkster Boulevard Winnipeg, Manitoba R3X 1R3
Regarding the employment of service person, Bernardlta Nava (employee/143 McDermot Plant) by the Company, and solely at the request of Local 288, and in reference to The Complete Agreement between the parties hereto, and specifically in reference to Article 14 of The Complete Agreement ■
Incentive system and Wage Rates, and more particularly with respect to Article 14.08 of The Complete Agreement, the parties hereto acknowledge and understand that the said Barnardita Naval shall in special consideration receive the following Guarantee Rates in substitution of those Guarantee Rates as such rates are set out in Article 14.08 B of The Complete Agreement.
Effective March	5,	2O0Q	$7.20
Effective March	5,	2001	$7.40
Effective March	S,	2002	$7.50
In coming to the within understanding, it is explicitly understood and acknowledged by the parties hereto that nothing contained in the Memorandum of Understanding in any way infringes (oris intended in any way to infringe on the rights of the Ccnpany's employees as they have such rights pursuant t o The Complete Agreement.
In witness whereof the parties hereto have set their hands;
Local 288 of the W.C.R.D.C
Nygard International Ltd.
Witness