COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
-MENT OF REVISIONS TO THE ORIGINAL COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO'IWRCFTT
BETWEEN
AND
ASSOCIATED FUR INDUSTRIES OF TORONTO INC. hereinafter- called the "EMPLOYER" the party of the First Part;
FUR. LEATHER. SHOE
affiMated with
& ALLIED WORKERS
Food
UNION, LOCA
& Commercial Words'q OvM
the United
International Union, AFL-CIO & CLC the party of the Second Part, herein referred to as the "UNION", contracting on behalf of the said manbas who are employed by the parties of the First Part and such employees being referred to herein as "EMPLOYEES";.-
The parties herein agree that the said .collective agreement shall include the terms of the previous collective agreement which expired on February 28, 1990, provided, however, that the following amendments are incorporated and supersede previous like articles:
(1)
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
The present Agreement will be for a period of two years -- March 1, 1990 to February 29, 1992.	-----------------
(2)	WAGES
Effective March 1, 1990, there shall be no change in wages. Effective March 1, 1991, the subject of a wage increase will be brought to the bargaining table.
(3)	HOURS OF WORK/OVERTIME
Although the regular work week shall remain at 35 hours, any work performed after 37*2 hours per week will constitute overtime and be paid at the rate of time-and-one-half,
All wok over 35 hours per week to be performed at option of the employee.
(4)	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Inasmuch as the federal government declared an additional statutory holiday, such holiday has replaced Yom Klppur, The current nine statutory holidays are:
New Year's	Dominion (Canada)	Day	Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday	Civic Holiday	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Labour Day	Boxing Day
(5)	SICK BENEFIT, 'HOSPITALIZATION & DEATH FOND
Effective March 1 , 1990, the Employer contribution to this fund shall be reduced from the present four percent to two percent.
FOR THE:	ASSOCIATED FUR INDUSTRIES
OF TORONTO INC.
FOR THE:	FUR, LEATHER, SHOE & ALLIED WORKERS'
UNION, LOCAL 82, affiliated with UFCW --AFL-CIO & CLC


f^r/jOL



(Witness
Signed:	Toronto, Ontario - November 14, 1990.
0093104*
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT of revisions to the ore ml collective agreement entered into MARCH 1,
1984:
BETWEEN	ASSOCIATED FUR INDUSTRIES OF TORONTO INC.
hereinafter called the EMPLOYE11 the party of the First Part;
AND	FUR. LEATHER, SHOE & ALLIED WORKERS' UNION. LOCAL 82,
affiliated with the United Food & Commercial WorkeTs' International Union, AFL-CIO & CLC the party of the Second Part, herein referred to as the "UNION", contracting on behalf of the said members who are employed by the parties of the First Part and such employees being referred to herein as "EMPLOYEES",
The parties herein agree that the said collective agreement shall include the terms of the previous collective agreement which expired on February 29, 1988, provided, however, that the following amendments are' incorporated and supersede previous 1 ike articles:
(1)	DURATION Of AGREEMENT
The present Agreement will be for a period of two years -- March 1, 1988 to February 28, 1990.
(2)	WAGE INCREASE
Effective March 1 , 1988 there shall be an across-the-board wage increase for a17 employees of $15,00 per week.
*
Effective March 1 , 1989 there shall be a further across-the-board wage increase for all employees of $20.00 per week.
(3)	TORONTO FUR WORKERS' PENSION FUND
Effective March 1, 1988 the Employer contribution to this fund shall be increased from four percent to four-and-one-half percent.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement, dated at Toronto this /tj)___________day of September, 1988,
FOR THE:	ASSOCIATED FUR INDUSTRIES
OF TORONTO INC.
FOR THE:	FUR, LEATHER SHOE & ALLIED
WORKERS' UNION, LOCAL 82, affiliated with the UNITED FOCD & OOMIVEFOAL WORKERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION — AFL-CIO & CLC
WITNESS
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT OF REVISIONS TO THE ORIGINAL COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO MARCH 1, 1984:
BETWEEN	ASSOCIATED FUR INDUSTRIES OF TORONTO INC.
hereinafter called the 'EIVPLOYER" the party of the First Part;
AND	FUR, LEATHER SHOE & ALLIED WORKERS' UNION, LOCAL 82,
affiliated with the United Food E Commercial Workers' International Union, AFL-CIO & CLC' the party of the Second Part, herein referred to as the "UNION", contracting on behalf of the said members who are employed by the parties of the First Part and such employees being referred to herein as "EMPLOYEES".
The parties agree that in addition to the existing contract.between the said parties,
that the revisions set out below will supersede previous I i ke articles and w i 11 be
in full force -- in addition to the present contract — as of March 1, 1986.
(1)	DURATION OF AGREEMENT
The present Agreement wil 1 be for a period of two years -- March 1, 1986 to February 29, 1988.
(2)	WAGE INCREASE
Effective March!, 1986 there shall be an across-the-board wage increas for a 11 employees of $26.00 per week.
• Effective March 1, 1987 there shall be a further across-the-board wage ncrease for all employees of $25.00 per week.
(3)	SICK BENEFIT, HOSPITALIZATION & DEATH FUND
Effective March 1, 1986 the Employer contribution to this fund shall be increased from three percent to four percent.
(4)	TORONTO FUR WORKERS' PENSION FUND
Effective March 1, 1986 the Employer contribution to this fund shall be increased fcm three percent to four percent.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement, dated at Toronto this {{ft-' day of April, 1986.
FOR THE:	FUR, LEATHER, SHOE & ALLIED
WORKERS' UNION, LOCAL 82, affiliated with the UNITED FOOD & OOMIVEROAL WORKERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION—AFL-CIO & CLC

WITNESS
THIS AGREEMENT entered into, this first day of March, 1.984
BETWEEN:	ASSOCIATED FUR INDUSTRIES OF TORONTO INC.
hereinafter called tho, "EMPLOYER*
the party of the First Fart;
AND:
PUR. LEATHER, SHOE t
ajr»a. 8«nssr
ALLIED WORKERS' UNION.
. --------ad with the".UNITED
^mSSSfAL WORKERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION,
APL-CIO t CLC
the patty of the Seteond Parti herein referred to as the “UNION"i contracing on behalf Of the raid members who ars employed by the parties of the First Part, and such employes* being referred to herelft as "EMPLOYEES"
WHEREAS the Union and the Employers are mutually
interested in the conditions and terms of employment in the industry, a
and have agreed to enter into thin Agreement for the purpose of more effectively assisting in securing order and oontinued operation in the said industry, and for the purpose of assisting and promoting
proper and fair standards c£ labour in the industry..
THEREFORE this Agreement WITNESSETH that the raid parties hereto, each in consideration of the mutual entering Into c£ this Agreement have covenanted and agreed each with the other as follows:
1.	HOURS OF WORK
The work week shall be 35 houri, five days per week, te be worked *» follows: Monday through Friday.
i.	OVERTIME
All and any work performed during any hours or done any days other than the aforementioned will be overtime. All overtime work shall be paid at the rate of time and one half.
it is understood that there shall be no overtime
work by an Employer after 7:00 p.m. In the evening.
Employees refusing to work overtime for their
employe: are not ta work outside the factory.

m
- 2 -
The Union shall not deny a worker the privilege ofworking overtime at'any time and particularly during the hearing of any dispute or complaint against the employer ox during the
negotiating of any Agreement between the Employer slid the Union.
3.	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
The Employer agrees that ell employee, shall be paid a regular day** pay for the hblidays hereunder set out, without
work, no matter what day of the week such holiday may fall*
New Year’s Day; Good Friday; victoria Day; Dominion Day; Civic Holiday;
e
Labour Day; Thanksgiving Day; Christmas Day) Yom Kippur -- or any other day substituted by mutual agreement between the Employer and
the employee.
Xn the event the Federal Government deolares an
additional statutory holiday, such holiday shall replace Yom Kippur lb)	should the shop cf the Employer be working the
full week during which the holiday occurs, the employee shsll.be entitled to receive such proportion of pay far such holiday as the time worked beers to the holiday week, which shell be based on the number of hours to bo worked exclusive 'Of the raid statutory holiday, (c)-v	Should the shop of the Employer be closed for
all or a portion cf the holiday weak and be open for the full, two weeks prior to the holiday, any employee working the full two week period before the holiday week shall be entitled to receive full payment for the said holiday, provided, however, that should the shop be closed for the full week in which the holiday occurs and is open only a portion of the two weeks before the week i n which the said holiday occurs, the employee shall be entited to rsesivs such portion of pay for such holiday as the time worked bears to the full two week period before the holiday week which shall be based on '
70 hours•
td)	Should the shop of the Employer be closed part
of the two weeks before the holiday and pert of the holiday week, the employee shall receive such portion of pay for the said holiday fer the time worked by the employee, either during the two week, before the said holiday or during the holiday week, whichever shall »>• the
greater amount.
- 3 -
3.	iSTATO^ftY HOLIDAYS continued
(«)	Should any holiday occur during the vacation
period, the employee shall bo paid Lat such holiday on the percentage basis, either for the two weeks worked prior to the vacation period or the first week Hollowing the vacation period, whichover shall be the greater amount.
(f)	Should the shop of the Employer be clpied during
the two weeek# before the holiday and the holiday wedc, no payaeni shall be made by tho Employer to the employee rfor the said holiday.
(9)	In the event of any employee working on the above
holidays, he shall receive a day's pay at the regular rate and in
'	4
addition, time and one halt for all hours worked>
(h)	It shall be optional with the individual employer
as to whether he or she will consent to work on such holiday.
4.	ANNUAL VACATION WITH PAY
(a)	the period of annual vacation each year shall commence the last Monday In July for a period of two (2) consscutivs weeks.
(b)	The vacation pay shall be paid by the Employer to the employee* in cash In advance of the commencement of the vacation period.
(c>	Employee* who have been with the *ame firm aince
the preceding vacation period shall receive two weeks' vacation and. shall be paid for the said vacation period.
(d)	An employee.who has been engaged alter the
preceding vacation period, shall receive at the time Of the vacation, an amount equal to four percent (48) of regular wages so earned, as vacation pay.
(«)	An employee who severs his employment with the
Employer shall be entitled to receive an amount egoal to the total of Lour percent (4t) ot regular wage* so earned rince the last vacation period, as vacation pay.
4 -
3.	ANNUAL VACATION WITH PAY continued
(f)	However, an employee,, who at the commencement
of the vacation period haa been in the fur industry and a Member of the Union Cor five (5) consecutive years or more and on the payroll of the same firm for two (2) consecutive years or more, shall receive at his regularly hourly rate three (3) weeks' .vacation with pay.
(9)	Any employee in the category of Paragraph (f)
of thio section, who severs employment with the Employer, shall be entitled to an 'amount equal to six percent (61) of the total regular wages so earned since the last vacation period, vacation pay.
(h)	Employers shall make available a third (3rd) week's vacation with pay to employees who are eligible for; such week, providing that it does not interfere tilth orderly production.
In the event a large number of workers In any department ehooae fo take the third (3rd) week's vacation with pay simultaneously which could interfere with the orderly production, then the Employer shall, on the basis of seniority, give priority of the third (3rd) week to the employees with the longest seniority.
(i)	Such third week vacation pay shall be paid to the employee on the first scheduled pay week, that such employee returns to work following the vacation period as outlined in Paragraph (a), and shall include those employees who do not Immediately take the third week vacation oft, or who may decide not to taka the third week off.
(jl	In the event an employee —*■
(1) takas time off from work without the consent of the Employer; OR
(ii)	fails to repart to work after a recall from layoff; OR
(iii)	fails ta report to work following the two (2) week vacation period,
Said employes shall receive vacation pay on the basis of the appropriate percentage - i.e. either 4% or 6% of the total regular
wages earned sines the last vacation period.
Hot withstanding the foregoing, this provision
shall not apply in the event of certifiable illness
- 5 -
5.	WAGES
(a)	As of May	21st, 1984 there shall be an	increase
in wages Of eight percent ((%) pet week, And said increase shall be paid to all union employees.
lb)	AH union	employees are to receive a
ONE-TIME LUMP SUM BONDS up to a maximum of $165,00 111 weeks at $15.00 per 35 hour week) — ai — on the basis of 430 per hour of regular time worked during the 11 weeks as herein noted.
(c)	*	' Effective march 1st, 19B5 there shall be b further
increase of tout percent (4») baaed on the employee's wage as of February 23, 1985, and said increase Co be paid to all Union employees
6.	FIRST OP MAY
It shall not be a cause for discharge if any worker refrains from working on the First of Hay.
7.	NO SEPERATF AGREEMENT
(a)	N> Employer shall make any individual or separate contract with any employee whether as to wages or otherwise) nor accept or require any cash deposits or other security from any
employee.
(b)	The Union agrees that it will not sign any separate agreement with any Employer on terms more favourable than those provided in the present Agreement between the Associated Pur Industries of Toronto, Inc., and the Union,
8,	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
(a)	The Union and the Association hereby agrae that a
permanent Grievance committee be named after the signing of this Agreement, consisting of two (2) members named by the Union and two {2} members named by the Association, which fout (4) maubets may, if necessary, name an Impartial Chairman by agreement among themselves, who shall be the fifth I5th> member.
(k)	The Grievanoe Committee shall meet weekly, if
necessary, but not oftener, unless unanimously agreed to.
- * -
8.	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE continued
(c)	All matter* in dispute shall be issued lately referred to the Grievance Committee through the Chairman or the Secretary of
the said Committee. The dispute shall be taken up at the next regular meeting of.ithe Grievance Committee and shall be adjusted within forty-eight (48) hours thereafter unless the time bo extended by mutual consent.
(d)	In any matter of dispute where a worker or officer of the Union i s involved, or an Employer is involved, iHEs understood and agreed that ouch worker or officer or Employer shall not act an a Committee hearing the dispute, and should any auch person be a member of the permanent Committee, he shell retire end another person shall be appointed in his place.
(e)	In the event of the unavoidable absence of ono member of the Committee representing the Union or tho Association,
the other party shall replace this member of the Committee to equalise the representatives for:the purpose of enabling the Committee to proceed t o business; or i n the absence of more than one member of either side of the Committee, then that side of the Committee shall have the power to select in their place enough members to bring their
representatives to the full number.
(f)	The Association's side of the Grievance Committee on i t s part undertaker to thoroughly investigate any complaint and further to use all i t a influence with the offending Menufacturar or Manufacturers if ouch conditions are proven, and will endeavour to adjust same to the artisfaction-of the complaining party.
(g)	The Union undertakes, in the event of any complaint
by any Manufacturer or Manufacturers, to use its influence with suoh offending members as may be neoassary to bring same to an amicable . and satisfactory adjustment.	.
(h)	The Employer Shall at all times have the right to discharge for just cause. Prior to the employee's dismissal, the Employer shall notify the Union. X* is agreed, however, then when
one or more Employers shall discharge any one or more of their employees, those discharges shall never take piece to Obviate the clause of equal
division of work, nor to be the result of discrimination against Union workers or against any worksr bseau** of his peaceful or orderly
8 .	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE continued
conduct of Union propaganda outride of working hours, nor against any employee because of hia orderly insistence upon the strict observance of the terns Of thia Agreement.
(i>	In all oases of dismissal where the committee
cannot agree, the matters shall be referred to an Impartial Chairman satisfactory to the Union and the Employer.
(j)	The proceedings of the Grievance Committee shall
be expedited by the parties hereto. Such Committee shill not be authorized to alter, modify or amend any of the provisions of the Agreement.
9.
EQUAL DIVISION OP WORK It is agreed that the principle of equal division of work shall be adhered to, having regard to the practical working of the shops and to the ability of the employees to execute same, At all tinea when there is not sufficient work fox all employees, all available work in the shop shall be divided equally among ail employees properly engaged in the work who are competent to do the work. All employees who have worked for four (4) consecutive weeks shall be entitled to share in equal division of work, except employees specifically designated by mutual agreement as "temporary employees".
10.	E&OHIBITBP PRACTICES
(a)	The Employer agrees to make an effort to offer
overtime to employees prior to contracting out.
(h)	ft is agreed Mat "contracting out of work" shall
bo to "Union Shops'. However, it is specifically understood and agreed that if the Union is unable to supply the Employer with the required capable worker or workers, such Baployer may not be denied the right "to contract work out* to a non-uniion fur operation.
(c)	It Is agreed that the Employer shall undertake
to obtain alternative fur contracting service available from Uhion contracting shops.
- 8 -
10.	PROHIBITED PRACTICES continued
(111) - It is further agreed that! -
Where the Employer laye off staff and 9ivee out contracting woik which can be properly performed by presently -employed staff -- such practice shall be deemed as contrary to the intent of the Prohibited Practices Section, and shall be dealt with under clause eight (8) headed — GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE.
(d)	Homework (carrying on work, directly or indirectly)
or causing work to be carried on, directly or indirectly, at a place which is or can normally be used as a residence or any annex or dependence of same.	,
11.	SANITARY CONDITIONS
The Employer undertakes to maintain proper sanitary conditions, adequate fire protection and eafaty regulations, and observe all Laws, By-Laws, Cders-in-Council, Work Orders and all such legislation relevant to sanitary condition*, fire protection end safety regulations.
12.	NO STOPPAGE OP WORK OR LOCKOUT PENDING
SETTLEMENT OP DISPUTE _______________
During the existence of this Agreement and pending the negotiations 6f any dispute or the settlement Of apy
price or the hearing of any complaint', neither party hereto nor the respective members hereof will institute or take part in any lockout, stoppage cf work or strike.
13.	APPRENTICES (LEARNERS)
(a)	An employee who without any previous "in factory*
fur production work, as listed in Schedule 'A', and who seeks to acquire fur skills, shall complete a probation period of twelve (12) months.
(b)	On completion of such twelve (12) months' • probation period, inch employee .who is doing actual fur production work shall bs designated as a "Pur Apprentice". The union shell be
so advised, and ruch apprentice shell become a member of the Union, and the Employer shall deduct from said employee and r“aifc te> ***	.
- 9 -
13,	AfPRSOTtCSS (LEARNERS) continued
Union, union dues of of such apprentice's gro»* weekly earning*, and conform to the terras of conditions as stated in Paragraph 18 -CHECK OFF (UNION DUES).
(c)	On completion of twelve (121 month*1 employment,
the Employer shall On behalf of such apprentice contribute to the Sick Benefit, Hospitalisation and Death Benefit Fund an amount equal to three percent (38) Of such employee's gross wage* as stated in Paragraph 1$,	.
(d)	On completion of twenty-four (20 months1 employment, the Employer Shall, on behalf of suoh apprentice, contribute to the Union Pension Fund an amount equal to three percent (3%) of
such employee's gross weekly wages and remit same to the Union as stated in Paragraph 20 of the saLd Union Agreement.
(e)	Both parties agree to work together with the • objective of creating a comprehensive Fur Apprentice Training Programme and tho Union agrees that during such apprenticeship period, they will refrain from inducing apprentices to leave his/her place
of employment.
(f)	After completion of twelve (12) months' employment as an apprentice said employee shall become a Union member and shall receive an increase of eight percent (8*).
14.	ENGAGING HELP
(a)	It is agreed that when the Employer requires help they will request same from the Urion and the Union will endeavour
to furnish such help within forty-eight (48) hours, Such help furnished by the Union shall be given at least one day's trial. If the Union shall fail to furnish the desired help, the Employer may secure help through any other medium oz channel, provided, however, that after four (4) weeks' trial any help so secured shall become ra*5\b»ri of the Union.
(b)	A13 help furnished by the Union shall present a working card tram the Union before being taken Oh.
- 10 -
14.	EHSACIHC HELP continued
(c)	The parties further agree that all employees working must be in good standing with the Union, m the went of any employee not baing in good standing with the Union and upon being so advised by the Union, such employee or employers, within one week of such notice will be dismissed by the Employer, provided, however, that the Union will endeavour to supply a worker of like ability.
(d)	All	workers in the shop must be members of tho
Union' as aforesaid, but this provision does not apply to the foremen,
(e)	Any	worker who has been engaged on a tamporary
basis shall be considered a permanent member of the staff after he has worked i n the factory for four (4) consecutive weeks unless arrangements have been made in writing between the Union and the Employer.
15.	EMPLOYER OR FOREMAN WORKING IN THE FACTORY
One toployer shall be allowed to work In the factory only it the foreman does no production work. When there it more than one Employer in any one firm, then only one of such Employers shall be allowed to work in the factory' and in any case not more than the hours of work allowed for the employees as set out in this Agreement.
N> Employer or foreman shall be allowed to perform any work i n any branch of the trade in the factory after the employees have left the premises except to prepare work for the following day.	*
16.	SHOP CHAIRMAH
(a)	The Union shall have the tight to designate or
elect from among the workers in the shop one of their members who shall be recognised as the shop chairman and aa the official representative of the Union, and whose duty shall be to take up.
all grievances pertaining to the Agreement.
(bi	The Business Agent or the Manager of tho Union
shall at all times, upon presentation of * Union credential, have access to the factory and place of business ®*ch EmPloY*r-
- 11 -
17.	MINIMUM WAGE SCALE
Minimum wage scale shall be replaced by the
wording as "APPENDIX "A" and read is follows*
"The parties agree that the rates as set
forth on Appendix A (as attached hereto) shall be the minimus weekly wages paid to employees"i
18.	CHECK-OFF (UNION DUES}
,	' The raid Employer agrees to> deduct from the wage*
of eligible employees. Union dues in the amount of two and one-half
percent (2>j%) of his regular wages and overtime pay, and to deduct
• <
as well all other duly levied assessments duly approved at a meeting called for this purpose by the members of the Union. All monies so deducted shall bs remitted by the Employer to the Union monthly, by the fifteenth (15th) of the month following together with a list cf such deductions.
19.	SICK BENEFIT# HOSPITALIZATION t DEATH FUND The Employer agrees that he will continua to
contribute Co a Sick Benefit/ Hospitalization and Death Fund, to be administered by a Joint Committee of tho Union and the Employers, with equal representation from both parties. The Employer shall contribute to such a Fund an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the total weakly payroll. All said contributions for the Fund shall be remitted to the Union month]-y, by the fifteenth (15th) of the month following.	-
20.	PENSION FUND
(a)	Commencing nay 21, 1934, tho Employer agrees to pay into the Pension Fund which is jointly administered by the union and the Associated Fur Industries of Toronto, Inc,, three percent. (3%) of gross payroll of all employees covered by thio contract.
(b)	All such amounts are to be remitted to ths Onion monthly, by the fifteenth (15th) of the month following.
- IS -	;
si.	MK^mrnt
An employee 1* to be jnatMi three (3) d»y*' Bereavement Um( with pay, in theevent of death of' father, mother, husband, wife, children.
22.	WORXIWG METHODS
Any proposed changes in the working methods must be discussed and agreed upon by both parties before being initiated.
23.	KEooewmoM	.
(a)	.	The Union recognises the Association aa the eels
■ ■ * * : and exclusive bargaining agency for the Employers who are members of
the said Association, and of those who stay become members.
(b)	The Union agrees that it will not sign any asperate agreement with any employer, manufacturer, artisan, contractor and/or retailer covered under the professional or industrial jurisdiction deerese relating to- fur employees as amended on terms more favorable then.tboee provided in tha present Agreement between the Association and the union.
24.	UST Of «m«8 OF ASSOCIATSOtt * UNION SHOPS ■
(aj	The parties agree that forthwith upon this
Agreement being signed, they will furnish to each other a lift of all their respective members and Itfte Union -agrees to provide the Association with a list of all Union shops with who they have signed Agreements,
(b>	The Association further	egress that	is will
furnish the union with a certified copy of the Agreement signed by all the members agreeing to carry out the terms of this Agreement.
25.	IMDBPESfPEWT SHOPS
(a)	Any tsmpioyer who is not	a member of	the
Association, and who enters into an Agreement with the Union, herein, must agree to deposit the sum of fifteen Hundred Dollars (91,500.00) in cash or by bond with tha Union at tha signing thereof, which sum shall become and remain tha absolute property of the Union in the event that the Smplcyer breaches any of the covtnante therein undertaken by him.
- 13 -
25.	INDEPENDENT SHOPS
(b>	If, however, the Employer agrees to join the
Association and agrees to bo bound by the terms at the Agreement entered into between the Association and the Union, the said sin of Fifteen Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) shall be returned forthwith to the Employer.
(c)	The Union agrees that the members of the Association shall at all times be furnished with their required labour prior to furnishing any labour to any Employes who is not a member of the Association.
(d)	, ,	The Union agrees, it will make available to the
Association office, the names of all "INDEPENDENT* Non-AflOfliation
Member Shops with whoa they have also entered into this Collective
»
Agreement
26.	CONTROL PIAN
The parties agree that a control plan will bo initiated that will guarantee that the Canadian fir Dressing and Dyeing Industry will be preserved and that a total of tan percent (lOt) of dressed and dyed fur skins may be imported in a processed and dyed condition.
Other skins that require special dressing and dysing to enhance the quality of workmanship may be sont to other countries for dressing and dyeing.
Zn the event that certain fur skins are not processed i n Canada, same may be imported into Canada in s dressed and dyed condition.
The Employers agree to have all garments cleaned i n Union cleaning plants only,
Provided that this clause is included in ell
other Agreements entered into by the Union in Montreal and Winnipeg.
- X* -
27.	DURATION 0F AGREEMENT .
the present Agreement shall come into full force and affect as of May 21st, 1984, and shall remain in feres until tho 28th dey of February, 1988. Ninety {90) days prior to the termination of this Agreement, the parties will, through their respective representatives make every effort to negotiate any Agreement for the future needs of the Industry as the occasion nay then require.
I
AMO THE PARTIES HAVE SIGHED THIS	MY OF
1984
FOR THE!
ASSOCIATED FUR INDUSTRIES Of TORONTO INC.
)
)
>
)
)
FOR THE:
FOR, HEATHER, SHOE C ALLIED WORKERS' UNION, LOCAL 82, affiliated with the united food t COMMERICIAL WORKERS1 INTERNATIONAL UNION — AFL-CIO-Ct
^w».
The above signatures witnessed byt
APPENDIX A MINIMUM WAGS 3gA"*g
(a)	The Company and the Union agree to the
following weekly minimum wage act-,I.e.
Effective	Effective	Effective
March 1/83 May 211SA'	March 1/85
Cutters
Cutters
Cutters
1st Class 2nd Class apprentice
414.00	$ 447.12	$ 465.00
404.00	436.32	453.77
399.00	430.92	440.16
Operatore
Operators
1st Class	404.00	436.32	453.77
2nd Class	392.00	423.36	440.29
Trimmers
Trimera
1st Claes	399.00	430.92	448.16
2nd Clifts	392.00 -••	423.36	440.29
aloe leers Blockers
1st Class	399.00	430.92
2nd Class	388.00	419.04
448.16
435.80
Finishers
Finishers
1st Clara	398.00	429.84	447.03
2nd Class	389.00	420.12	436.92
Lining Cutters (those who cut b sew)
Lining Operators
Examiners
335.00	415.80	432.43
380.00	410.40	426.82
396.00	427.68	444.79
(b)	All closers, whether working an first or
second class work, shall receive a salary of first class operator.
APPENDIX B
(a)
LETTER OF DJttflKSTAJMHKG - RE:	Article 19
SICK BENEFIT,. HOSFXfrUfclgATXOH AMD DEATH FUND
This letter wi31 Be.,,/0 to confirm the understanding reached by the parties during negotiations — “That the Joint committee of the Union and Employers which administers the Sick Benefit, Hoapitv irat.ton and Death Fund shell undertake to review the amount of the Em ioyer contribution under Article 19 to reflect the
elimination * double coverage as well as the rebate of CHIP
' » ■ ■
premiums to non-eo*.	no Onion Members". ,
(b)
•this letter will service to confirm the understanding reached by the patties during negotiations that subject to actuarial survey, the parties agree to work towards improving the benefits provided by its above noted funds".
(c)
JJEVfBft OF ONKEKSTAMDISG FEW3.T0K t'UKD
Article 20
It is further agreed: that the association advise its* member to remit. u» ihe Pension Fund five percent (5%) of the gross payroll of all. errployees covered by this Agreement from March 1st, 1984 to Nay 19th, 1984.
4R
LEXTER OF UNDERSTANDING
'’This lattar La to confirm agreement reached by both parties during negotiations that Appendix ’’A"
Minimum Wage Scale may be adjusted
*
by Che Individual Employer® should
»
w
circumstances so require".
Contract to be dated Kerch lot:, 1984