BETWEEN
LOCAL 288 of the INTERNATIONAL LADIES'
UNION being an unincorporated association with offices located at 400	-	228 Notre Dame Avenue, Winnipeg,
Manitoba R3B 1N7
(herein called the "UNION")
OF THE FIRST PART
- and ~
NYGARD INTERNATIONAL LTD. carrying on business at 1771 Inkster Boulevard, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3X 1R3 in their Inkster Factory and at 85 Adelaide St. , Winnipeg, Manitoba, in their McDermot Factory.
(herein called the "MANUFACTURER")
OF THE SECOND PART
AGREEMENT
March 5,
1991 to March 4, 1994
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE .	
ARTICLE	1 -
ARTICLE	2 -
ARTICLE	3 -
ARTICLE	4 -
ARTICLE	5 -
ARTICLE	6 -
ARTICLE	7 -
ARTICLE	8 -
ARTICLE	9 -
ARTICLE	10
ARTICLE	11
ARTICLE	12
ARTICLE	13
ARTICLE	14
ARTICLE	15
ARTICLE	16
ARTICLE	17
ARTICLE	18
ARTICLE	19
ARTICLE	o CM
ARTICLE	21
DEFINITIONS RECOGNITION RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT RIGHTS .	.
CONTRACTING OUT .	.
INDIVIDUAL CONTRACTS SENIORITY AND PROBATION BRIDGING OF SERVICE CHECK OFF
-	NO STRIKE/NO LOCKOUT
-	DISCRIMINATION
-	ACCESS TO PLANT .
-	HOURS OF WORE AND OVERTIME
-	SECOND SHIFT
-	INCENTIVE SYSTEMS .
-	CHANGE OF OPERATION
-	DELAY TIME
-	LAY OFF AND RECALL
-	DISCHARGE AND TERMINATION
-	HOLIDAYS
-	VACATIONS WITH PAY .	.
(1)
(1)
(2)
(2)
(3)
(3)
(4)
(4)
(5)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8) (8)
(10)
(11)
(14)
(14)
(15)
(16)
(17)
(18)
ARTICLE 23 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES ARTICLE 24 - HEALTH AND WELFARE - RETIREMENT FUNDS ARTICLE 25 - PAYDAYS - PAY CHEQUE INFORMATION
ARTICLE 26 - PAYROLL EXAMINATION ........... •
ARTICLE 27 - TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT ARTICLE 28 - TRAINING SCHOOLS ARTICLE 29 - UNION LABEL ARTICLE 30 - BULLETIN BOARD ARTICLE 31 - SAVINGS CLAUSE ARTICLE 32 - AMENDMENTS
ARTICLE 33 - TERM OF AGREEMENT ARTICLE 34 - RATIFICATION ARTICLE 35 “ GENERAL PROVISIONS
(32)
(33)
THIS AGREEMENT made as of the 5th day of March, 1991
BETWEEN :
LOCAL 288 of the INTERNATIONAL LADIES' GARMENT WORKERS' UNION being an unincorporated association with offices located at 400 “ 228 Notre Dame Avenue, Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3B 1N7
(herein called the "UNION")
OF THE FIRST PART,
- and -
NYGARD INTERNATIONAL LTD. carrying on business at 1771 Inkster Boulevard, Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3X 1R3 in their Inkster Factory and at 85 Adelaide St. , Winnipeg, Manitoba, in their McDermot Factory.
(herein called the "MANUFACTURER”) OF THE SECOND PART,
PREAMBLE
WHEREAS the Manufacturer is engaged in the manufacture of clothing at its Inkster factory at 1771 Inkster Boulevard and at its McDeriUOt factory located at 85 Adelaide Street, in the City of Winnipeg, in the Province of Manitoba (both herein collectively referred to as the "factory"),
AND WHEREAS the Union is composed of persons engaged in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will be from time to time employed by the Manufacturer in its factory;
AND WHEREAS the Parties hereto are desirous of promoting the principal of collective bargaining, the avoidance of industrial conflicts, and the regulation of relations between the Manufacturer and employees governed by this Agreement for a term and period, the whole as more fully hereinafter referred to:
(1)
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH, that the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
1.01	In this Agreement:
a)	"ARBITRATOR" shall mean one of the persons named in Article 25 hereof.
b)	"AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS" means the average amount per hour which a Worker shall have earned attributable to his production during regular working hours;
C) "AVERAGE HOURLY PAY" shall mean "The Average Hourly Earnings" for each employee for the preceding six (6) month period calculated the first day of January and July of each year;
d)	"EMPLOYEE" means regular employees in the bargaining unit and probationary employees;
e)	"MANUFACTURER" means the Employer NYGARD INTERNATIONAL
LTD. ;
f)	"MEMBER OF THE UNION" means a person whose membership is in good standing with the Union.
g)	"PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE" means an employee of t h Manufacturer who has not completed the probationary period as provided herein.
h)	"REGULAR EMPLOYEE” means an employee of the employer who has completed the probationary period as provided herein and who normally works a minimum of 40 hours in any regular work week.
i)	"UNION" means Local 288 of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union.
j)	"REPRESENTATIVE" for the purposes hereof and of the Labour Relations Act, "Representative" shall mean Canadian Director. In order for the Canadian Director to facilitate his role he may appoint his designate to represent him concerning the day-to-day operations and any other matters that may be assigned to him. In the event the Canadian Director as referred to in this article becomes no longer employed by the Union, the representative shall be the person appointed by the International President of the Union.
e
(2)
ARTICLE 2 ~ RECOGNITION
2.0	The Manufacturer recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent on behalf of all regular employees employed in the factory save and except for Supervisors, Assistant Supervisors and those above the rank of Supervisor, Office and related personnel and persons performing jobs in Shipping, Receiving and Distribution; Mechanical and Maintenance Repairs, Quality Control; Watchmen; Janitorial Services and other jobs which now exist or which may be created in the future and are not primarily production line related.
2.02	The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply to the Manufacturer's Inkster factory located at 1771 Inkster Boulevard and its McDemot factory located at 85 Adelaide Street, both in the City of Winnipeg, in the Province of Manitoba.
2.03	It is expressly understood and agreed that in respect of all matters relating to this Agreement, or renewal thereof, or in respect of any related matters, the Manufacturer in its relationships with the Union, shall not be required to consult with or deal with any person other than the Representative of the Union or the Shop Chairperson. Where the parties agree it is impractical or inappropriate for the Representative of the Union or the Shop Chairperson to consult with or deal with the Manufacturer on a particular matter, the Representative may designate another person to consult with or deal with the Manufacturer on the particular matter.
ARTICLE 3 ~ RELATIONSHIP
3.01	Any employee in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement shall, upon completion of the probationary period as provided for herein, become a member of the Union.
(3)
ARTICLE 4 ~ MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union recognizes and acknowledges that, in all
respects, except to the extent expressly abridged or modified by a specific provision of this agreement, the management and conduct of the operations of the business, and the employment and direction of the work force, are the responsibility of the Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 5 -CONTRACTING OUT
5.01	The Manufacturer agrees that work normally performed by employees within the bargaining unit shall be performed by employees in the bargaining unit, and shall continue to be so performed by employees within the bargaining unit provided that employees qualified to perform the work are available.
5.02	The Manufacturer may contract out work where for sound business reasons it is necessary to do so, however it is the desire of the parties that to the extent it is consistent with sound business reasons, that any contracting out shall not be done in such a way as to cause the lay-off, replacement, or reduction in regular earnings of any regular employee directly affected in the bargaining unit.
5.03	Where there exists regular employees on lay-off, subject to the sound business reasons referred to in 5.02, those employees on lay-off shall first be offered the opportunity of performing such work referred to herein, provided they have the required skills and ability, and are available when required.
5.04	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, no homework shall be sent out or permitted.
(4)
ARTICLE 6 - INDIVIDUAL CONTRACTS
6.01	The Manufacturer shall not hereafter make any individual
contracts or agreements with an employee in the bargaining unit, nor exact or accept any cash deposits or other security from such employee.
ARTICLE 7 ~ SENIORITY AND PROBATION
7.01	Seniority is defined, for the purposes of this Agreement,
as the length of service of a regular employee in the bargaining unit and shall be applied as provided for in the Agreement.
7.02	Any person employed by the Manufacturer shall be considered probationary for the first thirty (30) days worked. The employer has the option of extending the probationary period another ten (10) days worked.
7.03	An employee shall have no seniority rights during the period of probation. Upon expiration of the probationary period as hereinbefore provided, the employee shall be considered a regular employee and the seniority of such employee shall date back to the date on which the employment commenced.
7.04	The dismissal, lay-off or failure to recall after lay-off of a probationary employee shall not be the subject of a grievance.
7.05	An employee's seniority shall be forfeited with no obligation on the Employer to rehire such employee in the event of any one of the following occurrences:
a)	If he quits voluntarily, or
b)	If he is discharged and not re-instated through the grievance or arbitration procedure; or
(5)
c)	If he is absent from work for more than six (6) months because of illness unless he provides a written doctor's report to the Employer within one (1) month prior to the aforesaid six (6) month period, stating the employee is expected to be able to return to work and resume his full duties within the six (6) month period following such report, and he does so return to work, or
d)	he retires
ARTTC?TjE B - BRTDGTNG OF SHRWTF.
8.01	With respect to vacations, any employee's prior service with the Manufacturer shall be bridged upon rehire, provided that the employee has worked a minimum of four (4) years out of the preceding ten (10) years. In addition, all service by an employee within the ten (10) year period from the initial date of hire shall be bridged.
8.02	With respect to accumulation of seniority for the purposes of lay-off and recall, any employee after three (3) years of continuous service with the Manufacturer shall have any prior service with the Manufacturer bridged, up to the preceding ten (10) years.
ARTICLF. 9 - CHECK OFF
9.01	The Manufacturer shall, on a monthly basis, deduct from the wages of each regular employee in the bargaining unit, the amount of the regular membership dues payable by a member of the Union, and shall remit the amounts deducted to the Union in Winnipeg by the thirtieth (30th) day of the same month.
9.02	The Manufacturer shall, at the request of the Union deduct from the wages of an employee who is a member of the Union, initiation fees, and assessments and shall remit the amounts to the
(6)
Union, in Winnipeg not later than the thirtieth (30th) day of the same month.
9.03	The Union agrees that it shall not be the responsibility of the Manufacturer to deduct or collect arrears of dues from any newly hired employee, who was an employee of another manufacturer, provided that any arrears of dues of an employee which occur during the period of employment with the Manufacturer shall be deducted by the manufacturer.
9.04	The Manufacturer agrees that if the Union provides to the
Manufacturer signed authorization from any individual, authorizing the deduction	of	any such arrears	which they accumulated	while not
in the employ	of	the Manufacturer,	the Manufacturer will	so deduct
them.
9.05	The Union shall notify the Human Resources Department in
writing of any change in the amounts of regular monthly membership dues, and of any	initiation fees,	arrears, or assessments	at least
one (1) month	in	advance of the end of the pay period in	which the
deductions are to be made.
9.06	The Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Manufacturer from any and all claims, demands and proceedings that may arise from making any of the deductions aforesaid.
ARTICLE 10 - NO STRIKE/NO LOCKOUT
10.01	During the currency of this Agreement:
1)	The Union agrees that it will not declare, cause, direct, authorize, or consent to, or threaten any strike on the part of the employees, and that there will be no strike of any employees.
(7)
2)	No employee or employees in the bargaining unit shall cause, direct, authorize, consent to, or threaten or take part in a strike.
3)	The Manufacturer agrees that it will not declare, cause, direct, authorize, or consent to a lockout of any employees and there will be no lockout of any employees.
10.02	For the purposes of this Agreement, the words "lockout" and "strike" used herein, shall include the definition of lockout and strike as set out in the Labour Relations Act of Manitoba.
ARTICLE 11 ~ DISCRIMINATION
11.01	The Manufacturer shall not exercise or permit discrimination of any kind against any employee by reason of any employee's past or present lawful union activities, and the Union shall not exercise or permit discrimination of any kind against the Manufacturer by reason of its past or present lawful activities in relation to the Union.
11.02	The Manufacturer and the Union further agree that they will not discriminate against any employee of the Manufacturer or member of the Union or applicant for employment because of race, creed, colour, national origin, sex, age, sexual preference, marital status, or disability; making allowance for the pursuance of a government initiated Employment Equity Program.
11.03	The Manufacturer agrees there shall be no differential in pay for equal work between female and male employees.
(8)
ARTICLE 12 - ACCESS TO PLANT
12.01	During the currency of this agreement, the duly
authorized Representative of the Union shall at all reasonable times, have access to the business premises of the Manufacturer as provided herein for the purposes, which shall be disclosed to the Manufacturer, of dealing with any specific complaint, condition, or matter arising out of or pertaining to this agreement or its implementation or to determine compliance with the terms of this agreement.
ARTICLE 13 ~ HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME - DAY SHIFT
13.01	Hours of work or the first shift shall be:	forty
(40) hours divided between the five (5) consecutive working days, Monday through Friday, in the following manner:
MONDAY	eight	(8)	hours
TUESDAY	eight	(8)	hours
WEDNESDAY	eight	(8)	hours
THURSDAY	eight	(8)	hours
FRIDAY	eight	(8)	hours
7:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m.
3:30 p.m 3:30 p.m 3:30 p.m 3:30 p.m 3:30 p.m
13.02	On each of the above specified days an interval of
one-half (1/2) hour shall be taken as a lunch period.
13.03	There shall be a rest period Ot ten (10) minutes in the morning and ten (10) minutes in the afternoon on each day worked without deduction by the Manufacturer.
13.04	All hours worked in excess of the above standard work week, that is forty (40) hours in any week and eight (8) hours in any day, shall be considered overtime and all overtime shall be paid for at the overtime rate of time and one half (1 1/2) for all
overtime hours.
(9)
13.05	Whenever overtime work is requested by the Manufacturer, notice thereof shall be given to the employee(s) at least four (4) hours in advance, except in the event of an emergency.
13.06	The Manufacturer may request an employee to work overtime, and any such employee shall cooperate with the Manufacturer in working the overtime required, but no employee shall be discriminated against in any way for declining to work such overtime.
13.07	The available overtime hours shall be divided equally among those employees who regularly work on the operation where overtime is required, wherever practicable.
13.08	All hours worked on a Saturday shall be considered overtime hours and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one half (1 1/2) .
13.09	All overtime rates shall be calculated on the basis of the average hourly earnings for the week in which the overtime was worked, exclusive of the overtime hours, and the said average hourly earnings shall include the increases herein provided for.
13.10	The following conditions shall be applied in determining overtime hours:
i)	Employees shall not punch in before 6:45 a.m. on any regular work day unless so authorized by their immediate supervisor.
ii)	In the event that an employee punches in before the designated time and this has been requested in writing and authorized by the immediate supervisor of such employee, such employee shall be eligible for overtime pay after completing eight
(10)
(8) hours of work on any such regular work day, and the regular hours of work previously outlined during the standard work week Monday to Friday shall be available to such employee.
(iii)	Employees who are required by the Manufacturer
to commence their work day at any time after their regularly scheduled starting time of 7:00 a m. during the standard work week, Monday through Friday, shall be paid overtime for all hours worked after 3:30 p,m. on any such day.
(i-v)	Employees who commence work at any time after
7:00 a m. during the standard work week, Monday through Friday, without the permission of the Manufacturer, or at the request of the Manufacturer, shall only qualify for overtime pay on such day after completing eight (8) hours of work on such day.
13.11	All employees called into work shall be supplied
with at least four (4) hours of continuous work, or paid for at least four (4) hours at their guaranteed hourly earnings.
ARTICLE 14 - SECOND SHIFT
14.01	Hours of work for the second shift shall be:	forty
(40) hours in the following manner:
MONDAY II I SHAY WlfNI^IhY THURSDAY FRIDAY
3:30 PM	TO
3:30 PM	TO
3:30 PM	TO
3:30 PM	TO
3:30 PM	TO
11:45 PM 11:45 pm
11:45 PM 11:45 PM 11:45 PM
14.02	(i)	Employees shall not punch in before 3:15 PM
unless so authorized by their immediate supervisor.
(ii)	At all times, and in all respects, the
provisions of Articles 13.02 to 13.08 and 13,11 herein shall apply mutatis mutandis to all Employees of the second shift.
14.03	(i) If an employee punches in before the designated time and it has been requested in writing and authorized by her/his immediate supervisor, then the Employee will be eligible for overtime after completing eight (8) hours of work Monday through Friday.
(ii)	Employees who are requested by the Manufacturer to commence their work day at anytime after their regularly scheduled starting time of 3:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, shall be paid overtime for all hours worked after 11:45 p.m. Monday through Friday.
(iii)	Employees who commence work at anytime after 3:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, not at the specific request of the Manufacturer, shall only qualify for daily overtime pay after completing eight (8) hours of work Monday through Friday.
14.04	Premium Pay — shall be 15 minutes per day, Monday through Friday. A total of one and one quarter (1 1/4) hours per week, the proviso that the employee works the entire shift.
ARTICLE IS ~ INCENTIVE SYSTEMS
15.01	All employment during the currency of this Agreement shall be performed on an incentive basis based upon standards determined by Management.
15.02	The Manufacturer shall set the standard for each operation or group of operations and in determining the standard, each operation or group of operations shall be set to yield the employee an earning opportunity commensurate with the yield at 100% of the minute value.
15.03	Particulars of the piecework rates and standards shall be furnished by the Manufacturer to the Union upon request,
(12)
and the schedule of piecework rates and standards shall be kept at the Manufacturer's office, easily accessible to the Shop Chairperson.
15.04	If an employee feels that a piecework rate or standard is inadequate, the employee shall, follow the grievance procedure as set out in Article 23.
15.05	In addition to the rights contained in the prievance procedures as set out in Article 23, a Union engineer shall have the right to check piecework rates twice a year after consultation with the Manufacturer, as to the time and day of such appointment.
15.06	In the event of any dispute on piecework rates or standards, any employee affected by the piecework rate or standard shall continue to work at the existing rate or standard until the dispute is settled, and in the event of any adjustment of the piecework rate or standard upon the settlement, the adjustment shall be made retroactively to the date of the grievance as between the Manufacturer and the employee.
15.07	The Manufacturer agrees that work on duplicates shall be paid for as follows:
(i) Duplicates, whenever possible, shallbemade on a piecework basis; however, if no piecework rate has been established an estimated rate shall be supplied by the Manufacturer. It is understood by the parties hereto that in those circumstances where allowances have previously been given, this former practice shall continue.
<ii) It is understood that in no event shall the pay for duplicates be less than the employer's guaranteed hourly rate of pay.
(13)
15.08	The following wage increase shall be effective during the
currency of the Agreement.
Piece Workers	Mar. 5/91	Mar. 5/92
Mar. 5/93
Oper/Pressers
Increase	.20
Minute Value	.1194
Earning Opportunity	7.164
Spreaders
Increase	.20
Minute Value	.1248
Earning Opportunity	7.488
Bundler
Increase	.20
Minute Value	.1083
Earning Opportunity 6.498
Fuser/Tagers/Examiner Increase	.20
Minute Value	.2038
Earning Opportunity 6.228
. 14
.1217
7.304
.14
.1241
7.444
.14
.1271
7.628
.14
.1295
7.768
.14	.14
.1106	i.778 1130
6.638
.14
. 1061 6.368
. 14
.1085
6.508
Cutter
Increase	.20
Minute Value	. 1682
Earning Opportunity 10.092
.14
.1705
10.232
Progressions Scale:	March 5, 1991
.14
.1729
10.372
Start	6 Months
1 year
Oper, Pressers Spreaders Bundler
Fuser/Tager/Examiner
Cutter
cutter 2(appren)
5.20
5.20
5.20
5.20
6.65
5.65
5.30
5.30
5.30
5.30 6.90 6.15
6.00
6.00
6.00
5.60
8.05
7.30
March 5, 1992
Oper/Pressers
Spreaders
Bundler
Fuser/Tager/Examiner Cutter 1 Cutter 2
5.35
5.35
5.35
5.35 6.80 5.80
5.45
5.45
5.45
5.45 7.05 6.30
6.00
6.00
6.00
5.60
8.05
7.30
Presser
Spreader
Bundler
Fuser/Tager/Examiner Cutter 1 Cutter 2
(14)
March 5, 1993
5.60
5.60
5.60
5.60 7.20 6.45
5.50
5.50
5.50
5.50
6.95
5.95
6.15
6.15
6.15 5.75 8.20 7.45
15.10	Should there be an increase in the Provincial
minimum wage during the term of this Agreement, employees covered by this Agreement shall upon completion of probation, receive no less than five (.05) cents above the provincial minimum wage as their guaranteed hourly rate.
ARTICLE 16 ~ CHANGE OF OPERATION
When an operator is transferred to an alternate the operator can be paid on a split incentive bonus to operator to reach a piecework level.
16.02	Where the split incentive system cannot be
implemented and the request for a transfer is made at a time when the employee has work at her operation piecework average shall be paid.
16.01
operation, enable the
16.03	Where the split incentive system cannot be
implemented and the employee has no work on her operation, the employee shall be paid her guaranteed hourly rate.
ARTICLE 17 ~ DELAY TIME
17.01	All pieceworkers shall be compensated for time lost
by reason of waiting for work and/or for machine down time in the following manner:
i)	In the event that the waiting time and/or machine
(15)
down time exceeds a cumulative total in any day of fifteen (15) minutes, the employee affected shall be paid from minute one for the total amount of waiting time and/or machine down time at the employee's guaranteed hourly rate, which shall be in addition to the employee's piecework earnings.
ARTICLE 18 - LAY OFF AND RECALL
18.01	In the event of a	lay off of	employees by the
Manufacturer, the employees affected will be determined by the Manufacturer on the basis of departmental seniority and competency, as determined by the Manufacturer.
18.02	In the event of a lay off of employees, of more than two weeks duration, the employees affected shall be given one week's notice of lay off or pay in lieu of such notice.
18.03	In the event that	an employee	is laid off, the
employee shall be given an approximate date of recall.
18.04	The Manufacturer agrees to inform the Shop
Chairperson or designated Shop Committee member of all lay offs in excess	of	one	day, and in the event that the	lay off is for a
period	of	more	than two (2) weeks,	the Manufacturer shall discuss
the details with a Union Representative as far in advance of the lay off date as is possible.
18.05	Employees who have been laid off shall be recalled before any new employees are hired, upon the basis of seniority, provided the employees on lay off are qualified and competent to do the available work, and employees on lay off for a period of more than two (2) weeks, shall be entitled to at least one week's notice of recall in writing.
18.06	In the event that an employee obtains work elsewhere
(16)
while on lay-off, the employee shall not forfeit the right of recall.
ARTICLE 19 - DISCHARGE AND TERMINATION
19.01	Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, no
regular employee shall be discharged by the Manufacturer except for just cause. Just cause shall include, but not be limited to the following:
(a)	Disclosure of confidential employer information, deliberate falsification of any report or records, including applications for employment, personnel records, time cards, gum sheets and piecework tickets; without the prior consent or acquiescence of the employer.
(b)	Theft or unauthorized removal of property from the Employer’s premises.
(c)	Deliberate tampering, sabotage or destruction of Employer's property.
19.02	The Manufacturer shall notify the Union of the discharge of any regular employee.
19.03	In the event that an employee has been unjustly discharged, the employee may file a grievance in accordance with the provisions of Article 23, within five (5) working days from the date of discharge.
19.04	In the event of the discharge of a regular employee the Arbitrator on any arbitration on the matter shall have the right to sustain the Manufacturer's action, or to reinstate the employee with full, part or no back pay, or to settle the matter in any way deemed just and equitable.
(17)
19.05	No employee (s) shall terminate his, her or their
employment except on one (1) week's notice to the Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 20 - HOLIDAYS
20.01	a) The following holidays shall be observed, and subject to the provisions herein, all employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid a regular day's pay, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours for such holidays, whether or not such holidays fall on a working day, or non-working day of any week, or during any nonworking week.
New Years Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving	Day
Victoria Day (Empire Day)	Christmas Day
Canada Day (Dominion Day)	Boxing Day
Civic Day (First Monday in August)	Remembrance Day
b) In the event that any one of the foregoing holidays shall fall on a regular work day other than a Monday or a Friday, the date for the observance of such holiday shall be changed, with the consent of a majority of the membership, to either a Monday or Friday of the week in which the said holiday falls.
20.02	No employee shall be compelled to work on any of the foregoing holidays.
20.03	No employee shall be compelled to work on any other legal or personal religious holiday, nor shall they be paid for them.
20.04	A probationary employee shall be in the employ of the Manufacturer at least fifteen (15) calendar days out of the previous thirty (30) days from the date of hire before being entitled to payment for any holiday as provided herein.
20.05
An eligible employee shall receive holiday pay,
(18)
provided that while work is available, such employee works 15 of the 30 calendar days before the holiday and such employee works both the scheduled work day before and the scheduled work day after the holiday, unless such employee is absent for justifiable cause, and such employee has worked within the time period of seven (7) calendar days before or twenty-one (21) calendar days after the holiday. For the purpose of this Article, "justifiable cause" shall mean any of the following: '*sickness, lay-off, or vacation."
20.06	Any employees who terminate their employment during the calendar week in which a holiday occurs, without giving one week's notice, shall not be entitled to payment for such holiday.
20.07	Subject to the provisions herein, the payment of holiday pay for all hourly time employees shall be up to a maximum of eight (8) hours times their then guaranteed hourly rate, and the payment of holiday pay for all piecework employees shall be up to a maximum of eight (8) hours times their then average hourly rate.
20.08	In the event that any employee is requested to work and performs any work on any of the aforesaid holidays, such employee shall be paid holiday pay at the rate of time and one-half
(11/2) of their guaranteed hourly rate, in addition to the regular payment for such holiday.
20.09	The payment for holidays which fall on a Saturday or Sunday shall be based on the pay for the day on which the holiday is observed.
ARTICLE 21 ~ VACATIONS WITH PAY
21.01	All vacation pay provided for herein shall be paid
directly to each employee by the Manufacturer on or before June 30 th each year during the currency of this Agreement.
21.02	Employees covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to an annual vacation and vacation pay in accordance with the following categories:
i)	Employees who, at December 31 in any year during the currency of this Agreement, have less than one (1) year of service shall receive vacation pay calculated at the rate of four percent (4%) of their total gross earnings which shall include holiday pay earned during their period of employment with the Manufacturer for the period ending December 31st in any year, and a vacation on a pro rata basis.
ii)	Employees who at December 31in any year during the currency of this Agreement have completed one (1) year or more of service are entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay calculated at the rate of four percent (4% ) of their total gross earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include holiday pay earned during the year ending December 31 in any year.
iii)	Employees who at December 31in any year during the currency of this Agreement have completed four (4) or more years of service are entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay calculated at the rate of six percent (6%) of their total gross earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include holiday pay earned during the year ending December 31 in any year.
iv)	Employees who at December 31in any year during the currency of this Agreement have completed twelve (12) years or more of service are entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay calculated at the rate of eight percent (8%) of their total gross earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include holiday pay earned during the year ending December 31st in any year.
21.03	The Manufacturer shall circulate a vacation calendar no later than January 31st of each year and shall maintain the
(20)
circulation of the vacation calendar until February 28th of each year. All employees who have vacation entitlement for the coming year may apply for vacation in accordance with their seniority. The vacation calendar shall indicate the number of employees who can be spared from each department at any one time and the employees shall write their dates in the blanks on the calendar when it is their turn according to the seniority list. Once an employee has so indicated a choice, the employee cannot make a change until the calendar has been fully circulated within the bargaining unit.
21.04	It is understood and agreed that in determining
length of service for the purposes of this Article, absences due to lay off or leave of absences for reason of health or maternity as provided for in this Agreement shall not be deducted in the calculation of length of service.
ARTICLE 22 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
CITIZENSHIP DAY
22.01	In the event that any regular employee is required
to be absent from work due to their becoming a citizen of Canada, that Regular Employee shall be entitled to be paid at his or her Guaranteed Hourly Rate of Pay for the hours necessary to be absent from work to complete the process of becoming a Canadian citizen, said payment to be to a maximum of four (4) hours.
EXTENDED ABSENCE
22.02	(i)	An employee shall be entitled to request a
leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority after completion of three (3) years of continuous service. An employee must request leave of absence in writing with a copy to the Union at least three (3) months prior to leave. The employer shall
(21)
respond to the request no later than two (2) weeks after the request for leave.
(ii)	Employee shall be entitled to request a leave of absence for up to six (6) weeks (not including vacation)
(iii)	The employer shall take the request for leave under consideration depending on production requirements, availability of a replacement and the number of other employees scheduled for vacation or leave of absence at that time and the purpose for the leave. When more than one (1) request for leave of absence is submitted for the same period, the senior employee(s) will be given preference.
(iv)	Permissions for the leave, if granted must be
approved through the Human Resources Department of the Manufacturer in writing and a copy of the decision given to the employee and the Union.
(v)	Leave taken under this section must be
separated by at least three (3) years of continuous service.
UNION BUSINESS
22.03	(i) In the event that a Leave of Absence is requested by an employee to attend a Union Convention, the Manufacturer shall grant Leave of Absence to no more than three (3) employees from any one facility for a period of time not exceeding five (5) working days, provided notice is given to the Manufacturer in writing at least two (2) weeks prior to the commencement of the Leave of Absence.
(ii) In the event that the Leave of Absence is requested by an employee for other Union business, the Manufacturer shall grant Leave of Absence to no more than two (2) employees from
any one facility at any one time, provided notice is given to the Manufacturer in writing at least two (2) weeks prior to the commencement of the Leave of Absence. It is understood and agreed that no employee shall be granted Leave of Absence for other Union business in excess of ten (10) working days during any twelve (12) month period.
ILLNESS OR INJURY
22.04	(i) In the event a Leave of Absence is requested by an employee by reason of illness or injury, and which request is supported by a certificate of a duly qualified medical practitioner, the Manufacturer shall grant a Leave of Absence to the employee for up to 6 months, which absence may be extended in accordance with clause 7.05(c) hereof, and any employees who are so absent shall retain seniority during such permitted leave.
(ii) Further, any employees who are absent due to injury or illness for up to three (3) months shall be reinstated in all respects by the Manufacturer in the position previously occupied by the employee, or in a comparable position with all increments of wages and benefits to which the employee would have been entitled had the Leave not been taken. Any employee on piecework shall be credited with their average rate of pay at the time of illness or injury, upon their return to work until a new average has been earned.
MATERNITY LEAVE
22.05	(i)	Every female employee who submits to the
Manufacturer an application, in writing, for Maternity Leave at least four (4) weeks before the day specified by her in the application as the day on which she intends to commence such leave, and who provides the Manufacturer with a certificate of a duly qualified medical practitioner, certifying that she is pregnant and
specifying the estimated date of her delivery, shall be granted Maternity Leave without pay as hereinafter set out.
(ii)	The Maternity Leave shall consist of a period not exceeding 17 weeks, if delivery occurs on or before the date of delivery specified in the medical certificate mentioned above, or a period of 17 weeks plus an additional period equal to the period between the date of delivery specified in the medical certificate and the actual date of delivery, if delivery occurs after the date mentioned in the certificate.
(iii)	Maternity Leave granted to a female employee as set out herein shall commence no earlier than 11 weeks preceding the date specified in the medical certificate and shall terminate no later than 17 weeks following the actual date of delivery.
(iv)	Notwithstanding	that any female	employee does	not
apply for maternity Leave	as hereinbefore	provided,	she	is
nevertheless entitled to and shall be granted Leave for a period not exceeding the period of	Maternity Leave	to which	she	is
entitled hereunder.
(v)	In the event that an employee having been
granted Maternity Leave as provided herein,	and, for	reasons
related to the birth or the termination of pregnancy as certified by a duly qualified medical practitioner, is unable to work or having returned to work upon expiration of the Maternity Leave is unable to continue to work, the Manufacturer shall grant to such employee further periods of Leave of Absence from work, without pay, up to an additional six (6) consecutive weeks.
(vi)	Any employee who returns to work upon the expiration
of Maternity Leave as provided for in this Article, shall be reinstated in all respects by the manufacturer in the position previously occupied by the employee if the position is available,
(24)
and if the position is not available the employee shall have a first priority on the individual position if and when it becomes available, and until the individual position becomes available the employee shall be placed in a comparable position to the original position, with all the increments to wages and benefits to which the employee would have been entitled had the Leave not been taken.
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
22.06	(i)	Three (3) days off with pay within the first
seven (7) days following death, shall be given to any employee upon the death of their spouse, parent, child, brother or sister.
(ii)	One (1) day off with pay within the first seven (7) days following death, shall be given to any employee upon the
death of a grandchild, or grandparent.
(iii)	Pay	for such leave shall	be	at the average
hourly rate of each employee.
(fv)	Bereavement Pay shall not	be	paid
employee is on lay-off, sick leave, maternity leave, absence or vacation.
INJURY PAY
22.07	An Employee, if injured in the shop and requires
medical	attention	at a	location outside of	the	Manufacturer's
premises, shall receive compensation for the time lost from work, up	to	a	maximum	of	four	(4) hours, calculated	at	the guaranteed
pay, for the first day of the accident.
LAY OFF WHILE ON LEAVE
22.08
while an leave of
If an employee would be subject to lay-off according
(25)
to the provisions of this Agreement during the period of his Leave, he shall be notified thereof immediately and his Leave shall be converted to a lay-off. If an employee becomes subject to recall before the Leave would have expired, the Leave shall be reinstated and the employee may return to work in accordance with the recall provisions of this Agreement upon the expiration of the Leave.
ARTICLE 23	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
23.01	A grievance shall be a controversy between the company and any regular employee over the interpretation of or adherance to the terms of this agreement.
23.02	The employee along with the Shop Chairperson or a representative of the Union shall first discuss the complaint with the employee's supervisor. There will be no grievance until the supervisor has had an opportunity to discuss the matter with the employee and the Shop Chairperson or representative of the Union.
Step 1
If settlement is not reached after the discussion shall be submitted' in writing to the Production employee within five (5) days. The grievance shall
a description of the problem and sections of the agreement allegedly violated a statement of remedy sought the date of submission the employee's signature.
The Production Manager or her designate will respond in writing to the grievance, within five (5) days, to the union representative.
23.04
the grievance Manager by the contain :
Step 2
(26)
23,05	If settlement is not reached under step 1 within
five (5) days of the Production Manager's response, the grievance shall be submitted to the Human Resources department which will respond in writing, within ten (10) days, to the union representative.
Step 3
23,06	If settlement is not reached under step 2 within
five (5) days after the response of the Human Resources department it may be referred by either party to a single arbitrator. jf the parties fail to agree upon an arbitrator within five (5) working days after one party has served notice on the other party of its intention to refer the matter to an arbitrator, each shall name three (3) names to the other to be considered as an arbitrator.
(i)	If the parties fail to reach agreement on an
arbitrator within five (5) working days, they shall request the Minister of Labour to appoint same.
(ii)	When the appointment of an arbitrator has been
concluded, the arbitrator shall have the power to determine whether the matter before him is arbitrable. Having made the determination that the arbitrator has jurisdiction, the arbitrator shall hear and determine the differences and shall issue a decision and that decision shall be final and binding upon the parties.
23.07	The arbitrator shall only rule on ex plicit
provisions of the agreement. He shall not have jurisdiction to amend or add to any of the provisions of this agreement nor to give any decision inconsistent with the conditions of this agreement.
(27)
23.08	The expenses	of the arbitrator shall be shared
equally by the parties.
23.09	Agrievor who	fails to present a grievance to the
next higher level within the prescribed time shall be deemed to have abandoned the grievance unless an extension of the time limits is mutually agreed to by both parties.
23.10	For purposes	of time frame specified in this
article, the word "days" will refer to working days.
23.11	No grievance may proceed to arbitration without the approval of the representative of the union.
ARTTCT.F, 24 - HEALTH AND WELFARE - RF.TTRF.MF.NT FUNDS
24.01	(i)	The parties agree that until the provisions are
amended as provided herein, the Health and Welfare Fund previously established by the Union and the Manufacturers shall be continued in accordance with the rules and regulations as amended January 1, 1979, governing the Funds; wherein a Board of Trustees has been provided for, the Union has been designated as the Trustees of the Fund, with one (1) additional Trustee who is selected at arms length (who is at the writing of this memo "Syd Halpern") .
(ii)	The Fund name is designated as:	“Western
Canadian Region I.L.G.W.U. Consolidated Health and Welfare Fund."
24.02	(i)	The parties agree that until the 'provisions are
amended as provided herein, the Retirement Fund previously established by the Union and Manufacturers shall be continued in accordance with the amended deed of trust dated November 13, 1978, in compliance with the Pension Act of the Province of Manitoba and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the fund, wherein a Board of Trustees of the Funds with one (1) additional Trustee
who is selected at arms length. (Presently Syd Halpern is the Trustee at arms length).
(ii)	The Fund name is designated as:	"Western
Canadian Region I.L.G.W.U. Consolidated Retirement Fund."
24.03	The parties agree that when appropriate the by-laws of the Health and Welfare Fund and the Retirement Fund will be amended to provide joint administration of the funds by the Union and the contributing employers.
24.04	During the currency of this agreement the manufacturer agrees to pay to the said Funds on a monthly basis, the following amount, calculated on the total gross weekly payroll of the Union members in its employment, which gross weekly payroll shall include payments for holiday pay.
A.	Effective - March 5, 1991
Health and Welfare Fund	1%
Retirement Fund	3%
Total:	4%
B.	Effective - March 4, 1994
Health and Welfare Fund	1%
Retirement Fund	3 5.%.
Total:	4.5%
24.05	All Funds contribution payments to be paid in respect of the Health and Welfare and Retirement fund shall be paid into the Union office no later than the 30th day of the following month.
24.06	Until such time as the amendments to the by-laws of the Health and Welfare Fund and the Retirement Fund as set forth in sub-paragraph 24.03 herein, are enacted, the Board of Trustees shall invite to attend each and every of its meetings, one "nonvoting” representative from amongst the contributing employers who are situated in the particular city the said Board of Trustees have
(29)
selected as the location for the holding of the aforesaid meeting.
24.07	That at such time as the aforesaid by-laws referred
to in sub-paragraph 24.03 are amended, the employer shall, at that time, pay to the said funds, .on a monthly basis, a combined contribution which shall be equal to the sum of 4 1/2% calculated on the total gross weekly payroll of the union members, in its employment, which gross weekly payroll shall include payments for holiday pay.
ARTICLE 25 - PAYDAYS - PAY CHEQUE INFORMATION
25.01	Paydays shall be fixed as every second Friday with provisions for Holidays occurring on the specified pay day.
25.02	The Manufacturer shall furnish to each employee each payday the following information:
a)	Date of Pay
b)	Number of hours worked during the preceding period including overtime
c)	Gross wages earned
d)	Particulars and amount of deductions from such pay; and
e)	Net amount of wages paid.
25.03	Upon written request from the Union to the Manufacturer, the above information shall be provided to the Union, but no more than twice a year.
ARTICLE 26 - PAYROLL EXAMINATION
26.01	The parties agree that the Union's accountants,
namely the Chartered Accountancy firm of MacGillivary and Company,
(30)
may examine such books and records of the Manufacturer containing the data relating to the payroll of the employees in the bargaining unit, the computation of the contributions made by the Manufacturer to the various funds referred to herein, and with the observance of pay made to the employees in the bargaining unit.
26.02	The examination provided for herein shall be conducted at the Manufacturer's place of business.
26.03	The Union may exercise its rights under this provision once in any calendar year upon giving one months' notice to the Manufacturer to this effect.
ARTICLE 27 - TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
27.01	Any employee who receives scissors, tools or
equipment from the Manufacturer shall sign for them upon receipt, and upon request of the Manufacturer, or upon termination of employment, or upon taking a Leave of Absence, the employee shall return such scissors, tools or equipment received, to the Manufacturer.
27.03	In the event that such scissors, tools or equipment received by an employee are not returned by the employee to the Manufacturer, the Manufacturer shall deduct the cost of such scissors, tools or equipment from the employee's pay.
ARTICLE 28 - TRAINING SCHOOLS
28.01	The Manufacturer agrees to notify the Union of the particulars of any training school prior to the commencement of any training school and shall, on an ongoing basis, provide the Union with the names of all trainees who have spent a minimum of two (2) weeks in the training school; it being understood and agreed that any period of time in a training program for new employees shall
(31)
not be considered a part of the probationary period provided for in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 29 - UNION LABEL
29.01	The Manufacturer shall have sewn into every garment made by it the standard Union Label. Such Union Labels shall be supplied by the Union to the Manufacturer at the price of $3.00 per thousand labels. The Union shall have the right to check the production records of the Manufacturer in order to determine that the supply of Union Labels is being consumed in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
29.02	In the event that the Manufacturer elects, at its sole option, to incorporate the Union logo, on its instructions label, it shall no longer require to have sewn into every garment made by it, the standard Union Label as required by article 31.01 herein.
29.03	No employee shall be entitled to request or receive compensation on piecework for the work required to insert the Union Label.
ARTICLE 30 - BULLETIN BOARD
30.01	The Manufacturer shall provide the Union with bulletin boards to be used for the purposes of the Union. No notice shall be posted on such bulletin boards without first receiving the approval of the Production Manager, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE 31 ~ SAVINGS CLAUSE
31.01	Should any clause or provision of this Agreement be declared illegal or in any way conflict with any laws of the
(32)
province of Manitoba or any regulation thereof, both parties agree that this Agreement shall be automatically amended to comply with such law or regulation, if the law or regulation so requires. The remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.
31.02	The waiver of any of the provisions of the Agreement
or the breach of any of its provisions by either of the parties shall not constitute a precedent for any further waiver or for the enforcement of any further breach.
ARTICLE 32 - AMENDMENTS
32.01	This Agreement may be amended by written agreement
and authorization of both parties or their successors.
ARTICLE 33 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
33.01	This Agreement shall be effective as of the 5th day _of March, 1991, and shall continue in full force and effect up to
the close of business on the 4th day of March, 1994, and from year to year thereafter, unless written notice of intention to terminate or amend this Agreement is given by either party to the other at any time on or before the 5th day of January in any year in which this Agreement expires.
ARTICLE 34 - RATIFICATION
34.01	This Agreement is subject to the ratification of the members of the Union employed at the Inkster factory located at 1771 Inkster Boulevard and the McDemot factory located at 85 Adelaide Street, both in the City of Winnipeg, Manitoba.
(33)
ARTICLE 35 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
35.01	The article and section titles are included solely for convenience and shall in no event be construed to affect or modify any part of the provisions of this Agreement or be construed as part thereof.
35.02	Where in this Agreement the singular, the feminine, or the masculine has been used, it shall be deemed to include the plural or neuter or opposite gender as the case may be wheresoever the context of this Agreement requires.
35.03	Time shall in all respects be the essence of this Agreement.
35.04	This Agreement shall enure to the benefit of, be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties hereto have signed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
of the
GARMENT
fiRS/ ifNION
//\	)jJ4~ ■
Committee of LOCAL 288 of the INTERNATIONAL LADIES' GARMENT WORKERS' UN 101
I
per:
per:
NYGARD INTERNATIONAL LTD.

