AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Company’)
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND IT’S LOCAL 31
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’)
Covering the Period
September 1st, 1988 to August 31st, 1991
INDEX
Adjustment of Grievances Apprenticeship Plan Automation Bereavement Leave Bulletin Boards Call Outs Climatic Controls Compassionate Leave Contracting Out Coveral Is Dental Plan Disputed WCB Claims Electrical Maintenance Exchange of Shifts Floating Holidays Grievance Procedure Hours of Work Job Postings Joint Health & Safety Committee Joint Health & Safety Conference Jurisdiction
Jury Duty, Crown Witness, Subpoened Witness Leaves of Absence Letters of Understanding Life Insurance Long Term Disability Meals
Membership
New Job Classifications
O.H.I.P.
Pension Plan Period of Agreement Posted Back Up Positions Probationary Period Purpose of Agreement
Article
VIII
XX
XII XVI
XIII XI
XVI
III
X
XVIII
XI
VIII
VIII
XI
XII
X
X
XVII
XXI
XIV
XIV
IV
XV
XXII
XII
Page
9
31
22
28
22
18
63
28
2
15 & 57 29 58 61 17
7 & 55
9
15 & 64 21
13
13
1
29
33 49
23
24 60 3 3 28
34 1
62
19
1
Recognition Safety Equipment & Apparel
Semi-Private Hospital Care Seniority
Seniority Ranking Severance Pay Shift Differential Shin Workers Schedule Statutory Holidays Trades Tools Trades Training — Schedule of Rates Union Membership Vacations With Pay Vision Care Plan Wage Schedule Weekend Maintenance Weekly Indemnity
Article	Page
	1
X	14
XV	28
XII	19
	38
	35
XI	17
XI	15
VII	7
X	13
	37
V	3
VI	5
XIX	31
	38
	50
XIV	22
ARTICLE 1 ■ PURPOSE
1:01 The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages and working conditions as specified in Articles of this Agreement and to secure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operations, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This agreement moreover seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputesthat may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
ARTICLE II - PERIOD
2:01 The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Articles of this Agreement from September 1st 19RR to August 31st. 1991 inclusive, and from year to year thereafter unless either party desires to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case, the party desiring the change orterminationshall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to September 1st of the particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party, in writing, as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION
3:01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole
collective bargaining agent for all its employees employed by the Company on its operations in Nairn Township.
For the purpose of this Article, employees shall be all those employed on the job classifications set out on the Wage Schedule attached to and forming part of the Agreement, including those who are engaged on job classifications which may be established and become part of the Wage Schedule during the term of the Agreement. This provision excludes: Foremen, persons above the rank of Foreman, Scalers, Office Staff and Security Personnel.
1
3:02 (b) The employees of contractors engaged on operations of the Company in Nairn Township shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement, save and except the employees of contractors and/or contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work. The Union will be advised at least two (2) weeks in advance of any Company plans to ‘contract out work' except in the case of a genuine emergency.
3:01	(a) Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors,
whose employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involve physical danger to employees or danger to property.
3:02 (b)The Company will not contract out repair and maintenance work which is normally performed by the maintenancecrew, for which the mill is equipped, for which crews are available and which employees are capable of performing.
3:03 It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as the result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union affiliated with the C.L.C. Questionsof jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such mattersas fixed by the C.L.C. and the Company will not be asked to act upon any matter of jurisdiction between organizations of the C.L.C.
ARTICLE IV - RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4:01 The Wage Schedule is attached hereto and forms a part of this Agreement.
2
4:02 If, during the life of this Agreement, a significant change in the job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached Wage Schedule, the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach Agreement, the matter may be referred to Stage III of the Grievance Procedure.
4:03 For job classifications not listed in the attached Wage Schedule, the Company shall set a temporary wage rate. Where the Company has prior knowledge of the necessity for establishing a new job classification, the Company will notify the Union, in writing, at least two (2) weeks in advance, and if the Union requests, the Company will discuss the applicable rates and conditions prior to the commencement of the new job. Where circumstances require immediate and unforeseen establishment of a new job classification, the Company will notify the Union, in writing, immediately.
Any such rates will be based on comparison with the prevailing rate for similar and/or related occupations in the attached Wage Schedule.
After a thirty (30) day trial period any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Union and, after such agreement is reached, it shall then become a part of the Wage Schedule and be attached thereto. It is understood that the thirty (30) day period can be extended by mutual consent of the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement on a rate or rates, the matter may be referred to Stage III of the Grievance Procedure. Rates when established shall be retroactiveto the date of establishment of the new job classifications.
ARTICLE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5:01 Any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement. The Union shall be the sole judge as to whether an employee is a member in good standing and shall notify the Company promptly of any change in the standing of any such employee.
3
5:02 (a) When hiring new employees, subject to the skill and ability of the applicants to perform the work required of them, the Company will give preference to Union members.
If Union members do not apply the Company shall have the right to employ non-Union help.
The Company agrees to advise the Union from time to time of its labour requirements.
5:02 (b) New employees shall make application to join the Union when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union official. The Company shall upon hiring, advise all new employees to report to the Financial Secretary within (10) days of commencing work. Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate termination of employment.
5:03 (a) The Company will deduct from all employees covered by the Labour Agreement from monies due them and remit to the Union, initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues but not fines, assessments or other levies.
5:03 (b) Deductions so made will be remitted to the Union monthly, said remittance to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names with Christian namesas payrolled. A copy of the list will be given by the Company to the Financial Secretary of the Union or his representative.
5:03 (c) Yearly Union dues deductions will be shown on the T-4 slips.
5:04 Union representativesshall have the right to visit the operation in connection with Union business. Such representatives shall report to the Personnel Supervisor or Operations Manager on arrival.
5:05 The Union shall furnish the Company with the listing of local Union officers and shall amend these lists promptly as changes occur.
4
5:06 The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
ARTICLE VI - VACATIONS WITH PAY
6:01	(a) Vacation pay shall be paid to each employee by
cheque to be issued at the time of termination or when the vacation is taken. Vacation pay shall be paid to each employee by separate cheque.
6:01	(b) Vacation pay credits shall be paid to each employee
on the following basis:
(1)	Four percent (4%) of gross earnings for employees who have worked less than four (4) years in one period of employment with the Company.
(2)	Six percent (6%) of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than four (4) years, but less than ten (10) years in one period of employment with the Company.
(3)	Eight percent (8%) of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than ten (10) years, but less than twenty (20) years in one period of employment.
(4)	Ten percent (10%) of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than eighteen (18) years.
(5)	In the case of employees whose period of employment dates back to June 1,1963, their years of service shall be calculated as from June 1st, 1963. In the case of employees whose period of employment started after June 1st, 1963, years of service shall be calculated from date of hiring.
5
Status of present employees is as shown on Schedule “C” attached.
(6)	Employees will be paid one normal weeks earnings at their regular rate of pay for each week of vacation or 2% of gross earnings in the previous calendar year, whichever is greater. Employees must have worked at least 750 hours during each calendaryear. Time off due to compensableaccidents shall be considered as time worked.
6:02	A period of employment is defined for purpose of this
Agreement as:
(a)	In the case of an employee who has established seniority as a period during which he maintains his accrued seniority.
(b)	In the case of a probationary employee as a period not broken by a leave or an absence of more than three (3) working days, excepting layoff.
6:03 An employee who has been continually employed for one year shall take vacation time off at a time which is satisfactory to the employee and the Company. Each two percent (2%) of vacation pay credit shall entitle an employee to one (1) week of time off each year.
6.04 Vacation schedules will be completed by March 15th and vacations will be confirmed and posted by April 15th of each year.
6:05 Vacation requests made after March 15th will be confirmed as soon as possible but in no case later than one month after the request.
6
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7:01 Employees who have acquired seniority status by having completed their probationary period shall be qualified to be paid without the performance of work for the following holidays:
New Years Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Remembrance	Day
Canada Day	Christmas Day
Civic Holiday	Boxing Day
When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday, and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
Canada Day and Remembrance Day may be observed on Friday or Monday with mutual agreement between parties.
Remembrance Day (November11th) holiday will be observed during Christmasand New Year’s period. The shutdown day will be mutually agreed no later than September 1st each year. If agreement of the date is not reached by September 1st, the holiday will be observed on November 11th.
In addition, employees who have accumulated six (6) months seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidays per contract year (September 1st to August 31st) to be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor. Floating holidays not taken prior to July 1st in each year will be scheduled.
An employee who, by reason of layoff, is prevented from taking his floating holiday(s) shall receive pay in lieu of such holiday(s).
7:02 (a) An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, is eligible for holiday pay provided: (i) He works his last scheduled shift prior to the holiday and first scheduled shift following the holiday, unless prevented by circumstances beyond his control, or
7
(ii) If an employee has worked any of the available work days within the thirty (30) days immediately prior to the holiday, is on authorized leave of absence when the holiday occurs, he shall receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during his absence, or
(Hi) An employee who is obliged to cease work due to layoff during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period, or
(iv) An employee who is obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the twenty-one (21) day period immediately prior to the holiday shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such twenty-one (21) day period.
7:02 (b) Hourly paid employees will receive eight (8)times their hourly rate.
7:02 (c) If an employee who qualifies under Article XII is recalled and works anytime during the fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately following the holiday(s), he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday(s).
7:03	An employee who is requestedto work on any of the
holidays in Section 7:01 shall be paid for all time worked at one and one-half times his regular rate up to eight (8)hours worked, and double time after eight (8) hours.
7:04 An employee on regular vacation during a week in which a statutory holiday falls, shall have the option of having a day off with pay at a time mutually convenient to the employee and his supervisor within the following 90 daysor havingthe holiday pay added to hisregularvaca-tion pay. If the employee elects not to defer his holiday payment, he must advise Management not later than ten (10) days prior to the commencement of his vacation period.
8
ARTICLE VIII ■ ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8:01	It is the mutual desire ofthe parties hereto that com-
plaints of an employee be adjusted as quickly as possible. It is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given his foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint. Priorto reducing a complaint to a grievance as per Article 8:03 the employee may request his Shop Steward to be present at any further discussion with his Foreman.
8:02 (a) The Company shall recognize the Grievance Committee which shall consist of the President, two executive officers and at the discretion of the Grievance Committee the Steward involved.
It is understood that the Stewards and other Union officers shall not be absent from their regular duties in order to deal with a grievance without obtaining prior authorization from their Foreman.
The Company agrees to pay members of the Grievance Committee for loss of wages for authorized time lost for handling of grievances.
The shop Stewards recognized by this Agreement shall be as follows:
a)	Planer Mill (include	mobile equipment	operators)
b)	Large Log Mill (include	mobile equipment	operators)
c)	Small Log Mill (include	mobile equipment	operators)
d)	Processor & Yard(include mobile equipment operators & garage)
e)	Maintenance	(include electrical crew)
When the operating schedule for (a) to (d) consists of more than one shift there will be one Steward on each shift.
8:02 (b) It is agreed'that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee men or other Union members.
8:03 A grievance under the provision of this Agreement is 9
defined to be any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administrationor alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
8:04 Step I — Grievances as defined above shall be taken by the employee together with the Union Steward having jurisdiction directly to the employee's immediate Area Supervisor for adjustment. Any grievances submitted to the Area Supervisor in accordance with this procedure shall be in writing and will be disposed of by the Area Supervisor in writing. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then;
Step II -The matter shall be taken up by a member of the Grievance Committee and the Steward having jurisdiction with the Personnel Supervisor, then;
Step III — Withinten (10) days the matter shall be taken up by the Grievance Committee with the General Manager of the Company or his representative. Failing a satisfactory adjustment then;
Step IV — Within fifteen (15) days the matter shall be referred to the President of the Company or his representative by the Grievance Committee and the National Representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then;
Step V — Either party may within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter to Arbitration.
In Arbitration, the Company and the Union shall each select one man; these two (2) shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nomination. The Arbitration Board's decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) men selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third party.
10
All time limits mentioned in the grievance procedure may be extended by mutual consent of the Company and the Union. If a grievance is processed through to arbitration the Arbitration Board shall have the power to relieve against noncompliance of time limits.
8:06 It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4:02 and rates for job classifications under Section 4:03 and to revise the ratestherefore. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8:07 Sundays, Statutory and Legal Holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
8:08 A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with, in writing, by both parties and must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Grievances dealing with suspension shall be processed in the first step whenever possible. Where such an employee's grievance is not processed from the first step, it may be processed starting at the second step of the Grievance Procedure. In the case of suspension by the Company, the Company shall notify the employee, in writing, of the reason for such suspension.
Dischargegrievanceswill be processed beginning at Step III of the grievance procedure. The Company shall notify the employee, in writing, the reason for discharge.
In the event that an employee is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged or suspended by the Company, the Company agreesthat the employee will be reinstated on his job under terms^and conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
11
8:09 Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the board.
8:10 Grievances which involve Company policy in respect to the interpretation, application, administrationor alleged violation of the Agreement may be processed commencing at Step III of this grievance procedure.
8:11 If the Company has a grievance as defined in Section 8:03, it shall commence at Step II of this grievance procedure by the General Manager or his representative presenting the matter, in writing, to the officers of the Union.
8:12 Employees to be disciplined (written warning, suspension or discharge) by the Company will be provided with Union representation. When an employee has been indefinitely suspended from work, the parties will endeavor to meet before the employee's next regular scheduled shift or at a time agreeable to both parties.
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
There shall be no strike caused, called, or supported by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X - WORKING CONDITIONS
10:01 (a) It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee to promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at least two (2) meetings of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of the Chairman shall alternate between a Company Co-chairman and a Union Co-chairman.
The Chairman of each meeting shall make a report in triplicate, copies going to the Company office, the Union office, and the bulletin boards.
12
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time off from his work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time for which he shall be paid straight time while on shift or time and one half if off shift for all hours in attendance at the safety meetings (call out time not applicable).
All required safety equipment (excluding safety boots) is provided at the employee’s induction, and on-the-job familiarization and safety training is provided by immediate supervisor.
10:01 (b) The Company agreesthat Local31 representatives will attend all future E.B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd./Canadian PaperworkersSafety Conferences as observers. Four (4) delegates from Local 31 may attend the conference. These delegates will be compensatedfor any loss of wages incurred as a result of attending the Conference.
10:02 It is agreed that there shall be properly equipped first-aid kits sufficient for normal requirements, located on the operation.
10:03 The Company agrees to provide a statement for each weekly pay period to all employees, showing all credits, deductions, hours of work and the rate per hour, all hours worked at premium rate, and the type of work performed by the employee during such pay period.
10:04 All hand tools and equipment required on the job will be made available to all employees on loan. When an operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a mechanical repair job, he will be furnished such tools as are required. All tools and equipment not returned will be charged for in full. Worn out or broken tools will be replaced with serviceable tools free of charge provided that the worn out or broken tools are returned. The Company will provide free insurance against damage by fire or theft of tradesmen's tools normally required by tradesmen to the full replacement value
13
of such tools. Employees will be required to furnish the same tools which were required in the past. Tradesmen, to be eligible for above insurance, must provide the Company with a list of their tools. Employees’ damaged or broken tools must be reported to the supervisor and arrangementsare made for replacement. The same policy applies to tools lost by fire or theft. However, there may be some delay in the replacement as we must investigate the circumstances.
10:05 The Company agrees that it will furnish on loan, all mandatory safety equipment and personal safety apparel save and except safety boots.
The Company further agrees to sell to employees safety boots at forty dollars ($40.00) below invoice price to the Company.
The Company will subsidize all Debarker Operators twelve dollars ($12.00) per pairfor chainsaw safety pants purchased.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union or is mandatory under Government legislation,
In addition, the Company will contribute two dollars ($2.00) per pair towards the cost of gloves and mitts. The employee will be required to turn in his damaged or worn out gloves or mitts and surrender the receipt to receive the Company's contribution.
The Company will provide one pair of quality work gloves as required to the following employees each thirty (30) calendar days. Employees will exchange used gloves as required.
Assistant Edgerman Butt-Saw Operator Clean-up Man Framer Infeed Man Labourer
Board Puller Chipperman Edgerman
Framer Outfeed Man Greenchain Man
14
Licensed Grader/Trimmerman Mill Infeed Man #990-712
Trimmerman Helper
10:06 The Company agrees to pay a fourteen dollar ($14.00)u bsidy towards safety tempered lenses for prescription eye glasses.
10:07 The Company agrees to supply on loan, raincoats and oilers aprons, however, this shall not apply to normal personal items, such as shoes, pants, etc.
10:08	The Company agrees to discuss with the Union ways
and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement and also the interpretation of this Agreement. Such meetings or discussions could be held every month, unless circumstances arise that would necessitate immediate meetings or discussions on matters involved.
10:09 As per the attached Letter of Understanding Re: Coveralls, the Company agrees to the addition of one (1) pair of coveralls making available five (5) pair of coveralls to all tradesmen.
10:10 The Company will ensure that adequate temperatures are provided in lunch and washrooms.
10:11 The Company provides first aid arrangements as required by Provincial laws.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11:01 (a) The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week Monday to Saturday inclusive. The work week for day or shift workers shall be forty (40)hours, eight (8)h ours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
Stacker Man Trimmerman Wedge Mill Bundler
Sticker Placer Unlicensed Grader Wedge Mill Operator
15
It is agreed that day work or shift work employees may be required to work in excess of their regular work day or shift or work week, and will be paid in accordance with Section 11:05 for such time worked. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
11:01 (b) For the purpose of this Agreement, Sunday shall begin at 7:00 a.m. on Sunday and end at 7:00 a.m. Monday.
A holiday shall begin at 7:00 a.m. the day of the holiday and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following the holiday. An employee’s “sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. of that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
11:02 (a) The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and3:30 p.m., mealtime excepted. There will be a one-half hour unpaid lunch period.
11:02 (b) The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 12:30 a.m., mealtime excepted. There will be a one-half hour unpaid lunch hour.
11:03 (a) On other two-shift operations, the first shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after. The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtimeexcepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shall carry a shift differential of the second shift.
11:03 (b) On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutive hours. The starting and stopping times for the three (3) shifts and the shift differentials to be paid, shall be as follows:
Starting Time (between the hours of)
1st shift 7:00 a.m. - 8:00 a.m.
2nd shift 3:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.
3rd shift 11:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m.
Stopping Time (between the hours of) 3:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m. - 8:00 a.m.
16
Shift Differential:
1st shift - nil;
2nd shift - 350 per hour;
3rd shift - 500 per hour;
Effective September 1, 1989:
1st shift - nil;
2nd shift - 350 per hour;
3rd shift - 550 per hour;
Effective September 1, 1990:
1st shift ■ nil;
2nd shift - 400 per hour;
3rd shift - 550 per hour.
11:03 (c) The hours of work and the “sixth day” for day workersand shift workers shall be posted by 3:00 p.m. Thursday of the previous week. However, the Company reservesthe right to revisethe scheduleswhen necessary up to 12:00 noon Friday previousto workweek. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
When an agreement for a change of shift by employees is requested, forms for this shift change will be made available by the Supervisor for signature by the employees concerned and their Supervisors.
11:03 (d) If an employee, who has completed his scheduled work week, is required for work on his “sixth day” or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted by the preceding Friday noon. If he is available for the posted overtime work at regular star-
17
ting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control he shall receive four (4) hours pay at time and one-half provided he remain available for the four (4) hour period if so requested by the Company.
11:04 (a) A day or shift worker who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be paid for the full day or shift.
To qualify for the above the employee must stay on the job until told by the Foreman that he may leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered.
11:04 (b) If, during his scheduled work week, a day or shift worker reports for work at his scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, and if no reasonable efforts have been made to notify him not to report, he shall receive four (4) hours pay for reporting, provided he remains available for the four (4) hour period if so requested by the Company.
Notification procedures shall be established locally.
11:05 Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked on Sunday and all hours worked by an employee on his designated “sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) or outside his scheduled shift shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a Sunday. Overtime work required will be distributed on as equal a basis as possible among the employees who normally perform the work in the classifications requiring overtime.
For calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
When an employee is called out for overtime work, after completing his shift or when called out on his day off, he shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay at time and one-half if he works less than four (4) hours, and eight (8) hours
18
at time and one-half if he is unable to work the full eight (8) hours.
The Company will record overtime worked by each employee for each week and post in a visible location.
11:06 A ten minute ’’quarter time” on Company time shall be allowed twice each day and night.
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
12:01 The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability, in promotions, transfers, layoffs, and recalls after layoffs.
As of September 1, 1988, the seniority ranking of employees is as set in Schedule “C” attached.
12:02 Employment of any new employees shall be considered as probationary until he has completed thirty (30) days of work in one period of employment. Upon completion of this probationary period he shall be classed as a qualified employee with seniority ranking dating back to his date of hire. A discharge, quit or absence without leave, shall break any accumulation of qualifying days.
12:03 In the case of layoff due to a shortage of work the Company will notify the men intended to be laid off at least two (2) work days in advance, unless the shortage of work is beyond the Company's control. The Union Grievance Committee will receive a list of the men affected, prior to the intended layoff.
When the approximatetime of the recall is known at the time of layoff employees leaving will be informed of such approximate dates at that time. But in any case, notice in writing will be sent to an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employees will be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the date specified unless other arrangements have been made in writing.
19
12:05 An employee who has established seniority and who returns to work in time shall retain his seniority ranking during absences due to:
(a)	sickness or injury, certified by a licensed physician, dentist, or licensed chiropractor.
(b)	layoff for lack of work not exceeding twenty-four (24) months.
(c)	leaves-of-absence granted at the employee's request not exceeding six (6) months.
(d)	employment with the Union not exceeding eleven (11) months.
(e)	employment with the Company outside the bargaining unit not exceeding eleven (11) months.
An employee who quits of his own accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or fails to report to work following recall as provided in Section 12:04 shall automatically lose all seniority. An employee who fails to return from ieave-of-absence on the date specified, shall lose his seniority unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control. All absences from work must be covered by leaves-of-absence the issue of which is discretionary but which will not be withheld unreasonably.
12:06 In transfer of employees from one job classification to another, senior employees with the necessary qualifications shall receive first consideration. In such cases an employee shall receive the rate for the job to which he is transferred. When, due to shortage cf work, an employee prefers to transfer to a lower paid job classification the employee shall receive the rate for his new job classification as of the date of transfer. In the case of a temporary change to a lower job classification at the Company's request, the employee shall retain the rate of his previousj ob classification.
12:07 The Company, when filling vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordance with Article XII. Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on the bulletin boards for five (5) working days.
20
Temporary appointments may be made without posting for filling vacancies of less than two (2) calendar weeks duration. Newly created jobs will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Company for five (5) working days prior to any appointments to such jobs, stating normal job requirements. Employees shall not be considered for such jobs unless they apply in writing within this five (5) day period. The Company shall post notices showing the names of successful applicants for posted vacancies and newly created jobs.
The job will be filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12:01 of this Agreement. Employees accepting the postedjobs shall be allowed (5) work days in which to qualify (or a further time as may be mutually agreed). Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his former job without loss of seniority or benefits.
Employeeswho were absent for any of the reasons set forth in 12:07 (b) whenthejob was posted, and who qualify on the basis of Section 12:01 and the provisions of this section, shall automatically be listed as an applicant on the job. Immediatelyupon his return he will be so advised by the Company and must signify forthwith that he is allowing the application to stand. Failure to so signify will render the application null and void.
12:07 (b)A job that becomes vacant because the incumbent has hadto vacate it dueto sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement leave,jury duty and/or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work days, shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall be filled according to the provisionsof Section 12:07
(a)	and the job posting will note that it is of a temporary nature.
The employee who had occupied the job, upon his return to work shall once again occupy the job that he had filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth above, provided however, that the job is still in effect and is not filled by a senior employee who, for reasons of notice of layoff from his former job has exercised his seniority on this particularjob.
12:08 Lists showing the seniority ranking of employees
21
will be prepared and posted on Company bulletin boards, available for the information of all employees and will be updated and revised every month. A copy of this listing will be forwarded to the Union at least once a year.
12:09 The management and the operation of the plant, and the direction and the promotion of the working forces is vested exclusively in the management of the Company subject only to the seniority Article herein and provided, however, that this will not be used for discrimination against employees.
12:10 When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of new methods and equipment or due to curtailment of operations (excluding normal fluctuations in production levels) affected employees shall be offered alternative employment on remainingjobs in accordance with Article XII, to meet the Company's labour requirement and if such employees require training to perform the alternative employment effectively, they shall be trained by the Company.
ARTICLE XIII — BULLETIN BOARDS
13:01 The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company providing such notices have been approved by the Personnel Supervisor or Manager.
The Company will provide four Union notice boards in the following locations:
-one in each locker room and one in the waiting room for Small Log Mill and Processor
ARTICLE XIV - WEEKLY INDEMNITY AND GROUP LIFE BENEFIT
14:01 Weekly Indemnity — The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of a Weekly Indemnity insurance plan. The plan will provide seventy percent (70%) of weekly earnings (forty (40) hours times an employee's regular rate) up to a maximum of three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00), to commence on the first day in case of a non-compensable
22
accident or hospitalization and after three continuous days
from the commencement of a disability due to sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks.
Effective September 1, 1989 change three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00) to read three hundred and sixty-five dollars ($365.00).
Effective September 1, 1990 change three hundred and sixty-five dollars ($365.00) to readthree hundred and eighty dollars ($380.00).
14:02 Group Life Insurance — The London Life Insurance Company, E.B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd., Group Policy No. 11705 will remain in effect during the life of this Agreement.
The above plan benefit will be $30,000.00 life insurance with twenty-four (24) hour Accidental Death and Dismemberment(A.D.&D.) coveragefor each active employee.
The Company will pay fifty per cent (50%) of the premium cost, and the cost to the employee will not exceed twenty cents (20b) per one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per month.
It is understood that the 5112th rebate to employees under U.I.C. will be retained by the Company.
Spouse and Children
Effective first of month following date of ratification, the Company will provide dependent Life Insurance on the following basis:
1)	Employee pays 100% of cost.
2)	Spouse $5,000.00.
3)	Each unmarried child
a)	14 days but less than 1 year of age $400.00
b)	1 year but less than 19 years or 25 years when a student full time, wholly dependent on the employee for support $2,000.00
23
c) The spouse’s Life Insurancewill be reduced to
$500.00 upon the employee’s retirement and
cancelled on his death.
Paid-Up Life Retirees
The Company will provide a paid-up Life Insurance policy at age65 of $2,500.00. Companywill pay premium cost of this benefit.
14:03 Long Term Disability — The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurance policy.
1.	Eligibility - The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated two months seniority with the Company.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage - An eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Plan becomes effective.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
An eligible employee absent from work due to layoff at the effective date of the Plan shall be entitled to the Long Term Disability Benefit plan benefits upon recall on reporting to work.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinationsto employees returning from such layoff to determine their eligibility under the Plan.
24
3.	Qualifying Period - An insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Plan Benefit after fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
4.	Definition of Disability - “Disability” shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injury to work at any available occupation in the Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
5.	Amount of Benefit
(a)	The disability benefit shall be 50% of the monthly earnings as defined in 5(b), up to a maximum monthly payment of $1,800.00.
(b)	“Monthly Earnings” means, in the case of a day or shiftworker, 173 x his regular hourly rate.
(c)	“Hourly Rate” means the regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime.
(d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced by any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefitsare not affected by War Pensions, Workers' Compensation Disability Pensions, or by any insurance policies he may have purchased himself.
6.	Duration of Benefit -
(a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
25
(b)	Service for purposes of the plan will be based on the seniority ranking of employeesas is set in Schedule “C” attached.
(c)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears.
7.	Termination of Benefits - Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
(a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrenceof the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
(c)	Up to normal retirement age, or
(d)	On death
8.	Exclusion -
(a)	An employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits will not be eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
(b)	Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan will not be payable for claims resulting from:
(i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
(ii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Worker's Compensation or similar legislation, or
(iii)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
26
(iv)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
(v)	Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
(vi)	Disability or loss (1) while the employee is on, or could be placed on Pregnancy/Mater-nity Leave, or (2) if employee fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Maternity Leavethatthe employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation — Anemployee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examinations - The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodical physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability.Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
27
Any dispute arising between the Company and/or the insurer's physician and the employee's physician will be resolved by a physician (preferably a specialist) chosen by the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE XV - MEDICAL, SURGICAL, DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS
15:01 The Company will pay the premium for the Ontario Health Insurance Plan, Blue Cross Drug Plan and Semi-Private Hospital Care Plan coverage for all active employees during the term of this Agreement.
The Company contribution to employees who are off work due to a Worker's Compensation claim or a Weekly Indemnity claim will be continued for a period of upto twenty-four (24) months.
ARTICLE XVI - BEREAVEMENT RAY
When death occurs to an employee's spouse or children, the employees will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of five (5) days in the eight (8) day period beginning with the day of death. When death occurs to an employee's father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-inlaw, sister-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days in the eight (8) day period beginning with the day of death. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. Pay will be granted for the regular scheduled work days lost during the period. Any claim for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee in writing along with proof of bereavement in the employee's immediate family. If the employee does not attend the funeral, he shall receive one (1) days compassionate leave with pay.
An employee must have thirty (30) or more days of
28
service to qualify for payment. The five day funeral leave will be granted over an eight day period for scheduled work days lost beginning with day death occurs.
An employee absent on scheduled vacation will be granted the usual number of days applicable to funeral leave in addition to his vacation at a time mutually convenient to the employee and the Company within sixty (60) days.
ARTICLE XVII - JURY DUTY
17:01 In the case of an employee who is called for jury service, subpoenaed witness or crown witness, the Company shall pay, for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate and the payment he received for jury service. The employeewill present proof of service and of pay received therefore when making his claim for such allowance.
The employee will be excused from his shift if he is required to work anytime in the calendar day he is required for jury duty.
ARTICLE XVIII — DENTAL CARE PLAN
18:01 1. Eligibility - Participation in the Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated three months of seniority with the Company from date of employment.
2.	Plan Design -
a)	Service and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1. (100%)
b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2. (50%)
Maximum $1,000.00 per calendar year per person.
c)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 3.
29
(50% co-insurance). The maximum lifetimebenefit for orthodontic service covered expenses $1,000.00 per insured family member.
The Plan will provide for the application of the 1987 Schedule of Fees.
Effective September 1, 1989 change 1987 O.D.A. Schedule to 1988 O.D.A. Schedule.
Effective September 1, 1990 change 1988 O.D.A. Schedule to 1989 O.D.A. Schedule.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due to layoff or leave of absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month following the month in which such absence commenced.
3.	Administration -The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the Plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of ad-ministrativevehicle from among service carriers, insurance companies or self-administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	Premiums- The premium cost of this Plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Integration - The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement Federal or Provincial government shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan, the Plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
30
ARTICLE XIX - VISION CARE PLAN
19:01 Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, E.B, Eddy Forest Products Ltd., Group Policy 60526 will remain in effect during the life of this Agreement.
Benefit will be equivalent to Blue Cross Vision Care Plan (Basic) ($75724 months) for all employees and their dependants.
ARTICLE XX — APPRENTICESHIP PLAN
20:01 An Ontario Government approved apprenticeship program will be established in the following trades: Millwright
Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic
Electrician
Sawfiler
Others may be added as required.
The length of the apprenticeship programs will be four work periods of 2000 hours plus all mandatory school periods.
The number of employees in the apprenticeship program in each trade will be governed by the future manpower requirements in the trade.
1.	The program will be based on the Ontario Government's Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualification Act.
2.	Applicants must have a minimum of grade 10 education or equivalent as required for a certified program. They will be requiredto submit to a series of aptitude tests to determine their suitability for the apprenticeship program. When more than the required number of applicants pass the aptitude tests the senior employee(s) shall be awarded the apprenticeship.
3.	The tests will be administered by the Personnel Department and the results will be kept in strict con-
31
fidence. When an employee is informed that he has failed the aptitude tests he shall be given, upon request, the results of the testing indicating tests passed and failed.
4.	Once a person has been successfully tested for a particular trade he does not have to be tested again. If he is not selected upon his first application he may apply again in the future. If he applies for a different trade which requires additional tests he will have to take the additional test.
5.	The formal training program will be completed and the certificatesof qualification, both Government and Company, will be issued.
6.	Straight time overtime hours up to a maximum of eight (8) hours a week will apply towards the required accumulated time. The Personnel Department will keep records of accumulated time for each apprentice.
7.	Some of the regulated trades programs will require modification to ensure that apprentices learn tasks required in the Nairn operation.
8.	Apprentices must acquire a complete set of trade tools before 4800 work hours have been accumulated.
9.	There will be a sixty (60) day probationary period for all employees entering the apprenticeship program. During this period, if the employee does not display the necessary aptitude for the particular trade he may be returned to his former job without loss of seniority. The apprentice must be successful at the in-school apprenticeship program in order to continue in the program. Two successive failures at school will constitute a dissolution of any contract between the Company and employee. Similarly the contract will be dissolved if the Advisory Committee recommends the withholding of two successive pay increases.
32
10.	The Company agrees to provide apprentices the difference between forty (40) hours at his regular rate and any Government subsidies available while at the in-school program. All benefits will continue during the period the apprentice is at school. The Company will provide seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per week for room and board in addition to the Government compensation.The Company will further supply all books or materials on loan to the apprentice in order to complete the required course.
11.	The progress of each apprentice will be recorded and kept on file in the Personnel Department.
12.	Wages will be in accordance with Schedule “A” attached.
13.	The program will be supervised by the Trades Training Advisory Committee, which will consist of two members of Local31, two membersof Management, and a Chairman. The Chairman’s position will be filled by the Personnel Supervisor.
14.	It is understood that the rate for the second, third or fourth period will not be paid until the apprentice completes the mandatory schooling at the end of each period. If the apprentices school results are successful, all hours worked between the end of a period, the time an apprentice goes to school, will be paid rates retroactive to the start of the period.
ARTICLE XXI — LEAVE OF ABSENCE 21:01 The Company agrees to pay regular straight time wages to employees on temporary leave of absence forty (40) hours in one period for Union business. The local Union shall be billed for straight time wages paid. The Company will make all normal deductions for income tax, C.P.P., etc. A request in writing for a leave of absence for official Union business will be submitted to the Personnel Supervisor at least ten days in advance and the request will be granted subject to availability of employees to cover the vacancy. Requests in writing receiv-
33
ed less than ten days in advance will be granted provided the granting of the request will not affect operations. The payment of overtime premium will not be considered as affecting mill operations subject to availability of employees to cover the vacancy.
ARTICLE XXII — PENSION PLAN
22:01 The Company will establish and administer a noncontributory pension plan for all hourly-rated employees with one year of service or more effective September 1, 1984. Normal retirement will be first day of the month following attainment of age 65. An employee with ten (10) years of continuous Company service can electto retire after age 55, however, the monthly paymentswill be actuarially reduced. The cost of the plan will be paid by the Company.
BENEFIT:
After completing the qualifying period, an employee will earn seventeen dollars ($17.00) per month per year of continuous service to age 65.
Guaranteed Payments- If a retired employee'sdeath occurs before he has received sixty (60) monthly payments of retirement income under the plan, his retirement income payments will continue to be paid to his beneficiary until the remainder of the sixty (60) monthly payments has been paid from the trust fund.
Surviving Spouse Pension - If a married employee with 10 years of continuous service with the Company, who qualifies for early retirementafter age 55 and before age 65, dies before his retirement date the employee's surviving spouse will receive 60% of the earned pension allowance for the life of the surviving spouse, commencing on the first day of the month following date of death. If the surviving spouse is more than 10 years younger than the deceased employee, the monthly pension would be actuarially reduced.
34
Disability Benefit - An employee with at least 10 years of continuous service who has attained age 55, has qualified for disability benefits under the CPP/QPP and is totally and permanently disabled will be eligible for a monthly disability pension without actuarial reduction.
ARTICLE XXIII - SEVERENCE PAY
A permanent employee with at least two years' continuous service who is laid off due to job elimination by Management decision for such causes as more efficient operation, change or eliminationof a process, lack of orders, shall be paid severance pay if no job is available. Severance pay shall not be paid due to job elimination for such causes as fire, flood, explosion or “Act of God”.
Severance pay shall be paid in accordance with the following:
(a)	Severance pay shall be 2% of an employee’s total earnings for his last full period of service without interruption due to lack of work. Severance pay will not be paid to employees who resign or are discharged. One-half of this severance pay is payable after the employee has been laid off due to job eliminationfor a period of twelve (12) weeks. The second half of the severance pay is payable after the employee has been laid off a total of six (6) months. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to make application for such severance pay.
(b)	If recalled to work before the severance payment is payable, no such payment will be made. Any employee refusing a recall shall forfeit his right to severance pay.
(c)	If an employee is recalled after having received all of the severance pay due him, he will, as of the date of return, commence a new period of accumulation which will be credited toward any future layoff.
35
(d)	If an employee is recalled after having received half of the severance pay due him, he will, upon return to work, retain the right to the unpaid portion which will be added to any new accumulation of severance pay.
36
SCHEDULE“A” SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES FOR
TRADES TRAINING PROGRAM
Millwrights
Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanics
Electricians
Sawfilers
Four periods of 2000 hours
1st period 2nd period 3rd period 4th period Completion of
1-2000 hrs. 2001-4000 hrs. 4001-6000 hrs. 6001-8000 hrs. Program
Sept. Sept. 1/88	1/89
$13.91 $14.54 14.39	15.04
14.88	15.54
15.34	16.03
17.13	17.90
37
Sept.
1/90
$15.19
15.72
16.25
16.75
18.71
SCHEDULE“B”
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
OCCUPATION CODES, RATES AND DATES
Occ
Code	Description
010	Assistant Edgerman
020 Lumber Recovery Operator
030	Barker Operator
040	Bin Man
050	Board Puller
060	Butt Saw Operator
070	Carpenter-Apprentice 1
080	Carpenter-Apprentice 2
090	Carpenter-Apprentice 3
100	Carpenter-Apprentice4
110	Carpenter
120	Cherry Picker Operator
130	Chipper Canter Operator
140	Chipper Operator
150	Chip Truck Driver
160	Clean-up Person
180	Dry Kiln Operator
190	Dump Truck Operator
200	Edgerman
210	Electrician-Apprentice	1
220	Electrician-Apprentice	2
230	Electrician-Apprentice	3
240	Electrician-Apprentice 4
250	Electrician-Licenced
260	Filer	- Apprentice 1
270	Filer	- Apprentice 2
280	Filer	- Apprentice 3
290	Filer	- Apprentice 4
Sept. 1/88 Sept. 1/89
14.22	14.86
14.54	15.19
14.36	15.01
13.91	14.54
14.22	14.86
14.10	14.73
13.91	14.54
14.39	15.04
14.88	15.55
15.34	16.03
17.13	17.90
14.45	15.10
15.43	16.12
14.10	14.73
14.79	15.46
13.91	14.54
14.73	15.39
14.16	14.80
14.54	15.19
13.91	14.54
14.39	15.04
14.88	15.55
15.34	16.03
17.13	17.90
13.91	14.54
14.39	15.04
14.87	15.54
15.34	16.03
38
Sept. 1/90
15.53
15.87 15.69
15.19
15.53
15.39
15.19 15.72
16.25
16.75
18.71 15.78 16.85
15.39 16.16
15.19 16.08 15.47
15.87
15.19
15.72
16.25
16.75
18.71
15.19
15.72 16.24
16.75
300 Filer - Licenced 310 Filer Assistant 320 Fitter
330 Re-Entry Operator 340	Framer Infeed Man
350	Framer Operator
360 Framer Outfeed Man 370 General Labourer 380 Greenchain Man 390 Flood Slasher Operator 410 Licenced Grader/Trimmerman 420 Lift Operator Trainee (1-30 days)
430 Lift Operator Trainee (31-60 days)
440 Lift Operator - Lbr. Fldg. 450	Log Processor Operator
460	Lug Loader Operator
470 Mark II Operator 480	Mechanic	- Apprentice	1
490	Mechanic - Apprentice	2
500	Mechanic - Apprentice	3
510	Mechanic - Apprentice	4
520	Mechanic - Licenced
550	Millwright -	Apprentice 1
560	Millwright -	Apprentice 2
570	Millwright -	Apprentice 3
580	Millwright -	Apprentice 4
590	Millwright -	Licenced
610	Planer Mill	Infeed Man
640 Poclain Operator 650 Stationary Loader Operator 660	Reman Operator
670	Skidder Driver
680	Stacker Man
690	Sticker Placer
Sept. 1/88
17.13
15.34
14.88 14.49
13.91
14.76 13.97
13.91
14.00
14.76
15.43
14.13
14.29
14.45
15.43
14.22 14.96
13.91
14.39
14.88
15.34
17.13
13.91
14.39
14.88
15.34
17.13
14.35
14.76
14.45 14.54 14.25
14.22
14.00
39
Sept. 1/89 Sept. 1/90
17.90	18.71
16.03	16.75
15.55	16.25
15.14	15.82
14.54	15.19
15.42	16.11
14.60	15.26
14.54	15.19
14.63	15.29
15.42	16.11
16.12	16.85
14.77	15.43
14.93	15.60
15.10	15.78
16.12	16.85
14.86	15.53
15.63	16.33
14.54	15.19
15.04	15.72
15.55	16.25
16.03	16.75
17.90	18.71
14.54	15.19
15.04	15.72
15.55	16.25
16.03	16.75
17.90	18.71
15.00	15.68
15.42	16.11
15.10	15.78
15.19	15.87
14.89	15.56
14.86	15.53
14.63	15.29
710
720
730
740
750
760
770
780
790
800
810
820
830
840
850
860
870
880
890
900
910
920
930
940
950
960
970
980
990
Trimmerman L.L.M.
Truck Driver S/L Debarker Operator Twin Resaw Operator Unlicenced Grader Utility Operator High Speed Stud Operator Wedge Mill Bundler Wedger Mill Operator Trimmerman Helper/L.L.M. Tilt Hoist Operator Strapper Operator Millwright - Unlicenced Sawfiler - Unlicenced Heede Crane Operator Package Maker/Operator Ass’t Processor Operator Processor Truck Driver Lift Operator - Log Hdg. West Scanner Operator Crew Leader- Millwright Crew Leader- Electrical Crew Leader- Processor Crew Leader - S.L.M.
Crew Leader - L.L.M.
Crew Leader - Planer Crew Leader- Dry Kiln East Scanner Operator Crew Leader- Filing
Sept. 1/88 Sept. 1/89 Sept. 1/90
14.76	15.42	16.11
14.45	15.10	15.78
14.46	15.11	15.79
15.43	16.12	16.85
14.22	14.86	15.53
14.61	15.27	15.96
14.76	15.42	16.11
14.01	14.64	15.30
14.25	14.89	15.56
14.54	15.19	15.87
13.91	14.54	15.19
13.91	14.54	15.19
17.13	17.90	18.71
17.13	17.90	18.71
16.08	16.80	17.56
14.53	15.18	15.86
14.76	15.42	16.11
13.91	14.54	15.19
14.45	15.10	15.78
14.25	14.89	15.56
17.88	18.65	19.46
17.88	18.65	19.46
16.83	17.55	18.31
15.71	16.38	17.08
16.18	16.87	17.60
16.18	16.87	17.60
15.48	16.14	16.83
14.49	15.14	15.82
17.88	18.65	19.46
It is agreed that incentives may be applied in conjunction with the above listed hourly rates after discussion and agreement between both parties.
A crew leaderwill be paid75<t per hourabovethe highestopera-tion wage rate supervised for all hours worked.
40
SCHEDULE“C’
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
UNION SENIORITY LISTING AS OF SEPTEMBER 01, 1988
Serial Sen. No. No.
S0001 0001 S00050002 S0006 0003 S0008 0004
50012	0005
50013	0006 S0015 0007 S0017 0008 S0020 0009 S00220010
50023	0011
50024	0012
50025	0013 S00260014 S00270015 S00280016
50030	0017
50031	0018 S0034 0019 S0039 0020
50042	0021
50043	0022
50044	0023
50045	0024
50046	0025 S00490026 S0050 0027
Name
Lowery, Harry Austin, David Hummel, Fredrich Crick, Lionel Thibeault, Aime Hebert, Jean Claude Beaudry, Xavier Cormier, Norman Labrecque, Jacques Landry, George Beaudry, Ron Mirault, Noel Crick, Cedric Fletcher, Randy McAllister, Jim Gervais, Real Moores, Ralph Aubertin, Gerald Martel, Gerald Thibeault, Richard Hall, Lome Nelmes, Ken Badgerow, Omer Fraboni, Tom Arnold, Brian Marcoux, Harvey Collin, Adelard
Seniority
Start
June 1, 1963 June 1, 1963 June 1, 1963 June 1, 1963 Jan. 6, 1964 Jan. 7, 1964 Jan. 11, 1967 May 31, 1967 Feb. 22, 1968 Aug. 21, 1968 Sept. 20, 1968 Nov. 4, 1968 Dec. 10, 1969 Jan. 6, 1970 Sept. 14, 1970 Oct. 7, 1970 Dec. 21, 1970 Mar. 18, 1971 Jan. 18, 1972 Jan. 15, 1973 Jan. 19, 1973 Jan. 22, 1973 Feb. 7, 1973 Feb. 19, 1973 Mar. 1, 1973 Apr. 9, 1973 Apr. 10, 1973
Telephone
869-4759
869-1857
869-2658
869-4898
869-2197
869-3580
869-4054
869-4265
869-3729
869-4178
869-2970
869-2823
869-4095
865-2376
377-5349
865-2925
869-4895
869-2442
869-2382
869-4943
869-3424
869-3348
869-2067
869-4843
869-2951
869-2142
869-1186
41
S00570028 S0062 0029 S0077 0030
50086	0031
50087	0032
50088	0033
50092	0034
50093	0035 S0091 0036 S0097 0037
50114	0038
50115	0039 S0125 0040 S0128 0041
50138	0042
50139	0043 S0144 0044 S0165 0045 S0159 0046 S0170 0047 S0174 0048 S0191 0049 S0198 0050 S0205 0051 S0213 0052 S0219 0053 S0223 0054 S02260055 S02290056
50231	0057
50232	0058 S02340059 S0247 0060
50243	0061
50244	0062 S0252 0063
St Pierre, Gerry Apr. 16, 1973 869-2409 Hearn, Gerald Apr. 18, 1973 869-3137 Hunda, John May 3, 1973	869-4154
Piche, Robert June 18, 1973	869-4516
Golden, Harold June 19, 1973	285-4348
Allard, Jean June 19, 1973	673-9028
Hamilton, Wilber June 28, 1973	866-2946
Gerrard, Maurice June 29, 1973	869-1313
Barnes, Donald July 3, 1973	869-3738
Richer, Roland July 11, 1973 869-2877 Rodrique, Benoit	July 31,	1973	869-4657
Legrow, Rick	Aug. 9,	1973	869-3160
Simond, Phillip Sept. 4, 1973 869-4336 Fairbairn, Lloyd Sept. 4, 1973 869-4687 Madigan, Percy	Oct. 1,	1973	869-4104
Newton, Eric	Oct. 2,	1973	869-2557
Delisle, Albert	Jan. 7,	1974	869-3220
Campbell, Ken Feb. 25, 1974 869-1616 Massicotte, Paul March 8, 1974	869-2509
Gillis, Nelson March 18, 1974 869-4375 Beaudry, Aime Apr. 2, 1974	869-1536
McDonald, Doug June 24, 1974	869-4787
Lively, Ronald July 11, 1974	866-2489
Goodchild, Remmie Aug. 19, 1974 869-2292 Ranger, Hector Sept. 15, 1974	866-0031
Legrow, Ken	Apr. 7,	1975	869-2189
Laderoute, Fred	Apr. 7,	1975	869-1689
Bouillon, Marcel	Apr. 7,	1975	869-2200
Larone, Barry Apr. 15, 1975 692-3002 Buott, Francis Apr. 21, 1975 673-2748 Dupuis, Donald Apr. 21, 1975 Encil, Alex Apr. 21, 1975 865-2754 Lapierre, Real May 6, 1975	869-4011
Boomhower, Calvin May 12, 1975 869-4923 Thaxter, Fred	May 12, 1975 869-3709
Ruth, Walter	May 12, 1975 865-5244
42
S0258 0064 S02600065 S02480066 S0301 0067 S03030068 S0305 0069 S0315 0070 S0314 0071
50329	0072
50330	0073 S0332 0074 S03400075 S0349 0076 S03550077 S03530078 S0351 0079 S03580080 S0361 0081 S0375 0082
50378	0083
50379	0084 S03850085 S03880086 S03990087 S0404 0088 S0406 0089 S0411 0090 S0416 0091 S0419 0092 S04200093 S0431 0094 S0446 0095 S0448 0096 S0451 0097 S0401 0098 S0461 0099
Gibson, Ronald Cooley, Jim Simon, Jean Thibodeau, Maurice Olinsky, George Martin, Robert Shawanda, Godfrey Mandamin, Ivan Marcoux, Ronald Grenier, Eugene Gagne, John Noble, William Soucy, Henry Karvonen, John Varey, Robert Mandamin, Basil Soucy, Louis St. Michel, Ken Bebamikawe, Clifford Recollet, Lloyd Green, Floyd Lamothe, Ovila Levert, Jim Joyce, Robert Totman, Charles McGregor, Donald Jordan, James Gayowski, Rick Assinawe, Norman Lagrandeur, Daniel Eade, Richard Simon, Ed Ferris, Donald Owl, Mervyn St. Georges, Mike Corbierre, Frank
May 12, 1975 May 20, 1975 May 20, 1975 July 21, 1975 Aug. 5, 1975 Aug. 7, 1975 Aug. 15, 1975 Aug. 17, 1975 Sept. 2, 1975 Sept. 2, 1975 Sept. 2, 1975 Sept. 2, 1975 Sept. 22, 1975 Oct. 22, 1975 Oct. 24, 1975 Oct. 27, 1975 Nov. 3, 1975 Nov. 5, 1975 Feb. 23, 1976 Feb. 23, 1976 Feb. 23, 1976 Mar. 1, 1976 Mar. 8, 1976 Mar. 10, 1976 Mar. 15, 1976 Mar. 15, 1976 Mar. 15, 1976 Mar. 15, 1976 Mar. 15, 1976 Mar. 15, 1976 Mar. 23, 1976 Apr. 26, 1976 Apr. 26, 1976 Apr. 26, 1976 Apr. 29, 1976 May 11, 1976
869-4290
869-1085
692-5325
869-2659
869-1239
869-4581
859-3401
859-2365
869-3731
866-2380
869-4617
869-1074
869-4915
869-2769
368-3039
859-3097
869-3661
869-2084
859-2102
859-3264
869-2451
UNLISTED
869-1451
869-4431
285-4289
869-1548
866-0219
859-3976
869-4749
869-3050
368-3151
869-3485
865-2516
692-3945
368-3144
43
S0467 0100 S0481 0101 S0225 0102 S0485 0103 S0494 0104 S04960105 S05020106 S0509 0107 S0516 0108 S0521 0109 S05450110 S0383 0111 SO5270112 S0537 0113 S0559 0114 S0562 0115 S0574 0116 S05820117 S05840118 S0585 0119 S0193 0120
50600	0121
50601	0122 S06080123 S0611 0124 S0613 0125 S0615 0126 S0619 0127 S0621 0128 SO6230129 S06250130 S06280131 SO6290132 S06320133 S06400134 S06500135 S0651 0136
Lamothe, Robert McDonald, Roger Lamothe, Jean Fail Gauthier, Jacques Fox, Michael Vincent, Paul Edwards, Stan Young, Lyle Rivers, Wilfred Massicotte, Roger Desbiens, Larry Dumont, Claude Kaiser, Klaus Rivet, Ray Massicotte, Allen Ellis, Robert Lemieux, Ronald Lemieux, Michel Cyr, Ronald Bouchard, Arthur Tessier, Norman Lingenfelter, Bill Clow, Ernie Lagrandeur, Andre Daoust, Albennie Lalonde, Michel Daoust, Max Elliott, Howard Thibeault, Claude Delisle, Maurice Newstead, Robert Strain, Jim Massicotte, Peter Olinsky, James Dougan, Brian Volpel, Martin McAllister, Jack
44
May 13, 1976 June 6, 1976 June 10, 1976 June 15, 1976 June 21, 1976 June 21, 1976 June 28, 1976 July 19, 1976 July 19, 1976 July 29, 1976 Dec. 6, 1976 Jan. 27, 1977 Feb. 17, 1977 Feb. 21, 1977 Feb. 21, 1977 Feb. 21, 1977 Feb. 28, 1977 Mar. 8, 1977 Mar. 8, 1977 Mar. 8, 1977 Mar. 10, 1977 Apr. 25, 1977 May 3, 1977 June 27, 1977 Aug. 3, 1977 Aug. 8, 1977 Aug. 15, 1977 Aug. 18, 1977 Aug. 24, 1977 Aug. 29, 1977 Sept. 6, 1977 Sept. 6, 1977 Sept. 12, 1977 Sept. 12, 1977 Sept. 13, 1977 Oct. 11, 1977 Oct. 11, 1977
869-2736
869-4755
869-2424
869-2152
869-3461
866-0105
869-1880
869-3276
869-4832
865-	2069
869-1806
377-4736
368-2246
869-1750
869-3262
869-1595
869-4492
866-	2302
869-2568
866-0223
869-4721
869-2059
869-1871
869-4686
869-4491
869-2923
869-1589
692-5133
869-4273
869-3633
969-8309
869-2166
692-9186
869-1320
S0661 0137 S06640138 S06660139 S0679 0140 S0681 0141 S0685 0142 S0693 0143 S0695 0144
50699	0145
50700	0146 S0709 0147 S0729 0148 S0732 0149 S0731 0150 S0739 0151 S0744 0152
50747	0153
50748	0154 S0728 0155 S0751 0156 S0757 0157 S0759 0158
50768	0159
50769	0160
50770	0161
50779	0162
50780	0163
50781	0164 S0786 0165
50789	0166
50790	0167
50791	0168
50792	0169
50793	0170 S0597 0171 S0724 0172 S08020173
MacDonald, Roy Salo, Robert Pleuna, Larry Martel, Phillip Bouchard, Ernie Muldoon, Brian Brault, Mitch Evelegh, Brian Man Alstine, Harry Vincent, Jean Minor, Claude Malarski, Ed Jeanveau, Pat Larocque, Roland Savard, Paul Vondette, Michael Champaigne, Jerry Recollet, Ronald Toulouse, Melvin Martel, Donald Mclvor, David Toulouse, Donald Fairburn, Bruce Kozachanko, Mike Jefferies, Dale Courtemanche, Don Lelievre, Denis Gignac, Ronald Shank, Alcide Bennison, Ken Guindon, Ted Fairburn, David Badgerow, Pat Foucault, Donald Leeson, Ronald Charette, Vernon Fairburn, Howard
45
Oct. 27, 1977 Nov. 2, 1977 Nov. 7, 1977 Feb. 23, 1978 Feb. 23, 1978 Apr. 10, 1978 May 1, 1978 June 2, 1978 June 2, 1978 June 15, 1978 June 29, 1978 Nov. 2, 1978 Nov. 10, 1978 Apr. 10, 1979 Apr. 25, 1979 May 23, 1979 June 4, 1979 June 6, 1979 June 11, 1979 June 11, 1979 Sept. 4, 1979 Sept. 17, 1979 Oct. 15, 1979 Oct. 15, 1979 Oct. 15, 1979 Jan. 4, 1980 Jan. 7, 1980 Jan. 28, 1980 Feb. 13, 1980 Feb. 20, 1980 Feb. 21, 1980 Feb. 25, 1980 Mar. 3, 1980 Mar. 4, 1980 June 9, 1980 June 15, 1980 Aug. 4, 1980
869-4648
866-2978
869-2352
865-	2368 869-3036 869-1618 869-4432 560-3354 869-2007 869-1017 855-9809 692-4993 694-3372 855-3871
869-4779
682-2961
859-3559
673-4405
869-3270
368-3108
869-2680
869-2612
869-3786
869-4434
869-4480
869-1864
869-2572
866-	0368 692-3102 866-0144 869-2639 869-1634 869-1946 869-4099 368-3231 869-1399
S0803 0174
50811	0175
50812	0176
50813	0177
50814	0178 S0816 0179 S0818 0180
50820	0181
50821	0182
50822	0183
50823	0184 S0826 0185 S08280186 S0829 0187
50838	0188
50839	0189
50841	0190
50842	0191 S08440192 S08450193 S0848 0194
50851	0195
50852	0196 S08530197 S0854 0198
50857	0199
50858	0200
50861	0201
50862	0202
50863	0203 S0865 0204 S08660205
50867	0206
50868	0207
50870	0208
50871	0209
Bouchard, Robert Larocque, Leon Lalonde, Real Alston, Lome Oucharme, Richard Joyce, Greg Brimicombe, Paul Bouillon, Claude Varey, Mark Varey, Michael Vallee, Kevin Robinson, Jim Rancourt, Ray St. Onge, Gerard Leblanc, Gaetan Paquette, Gerald Karn, Edward Gauthier, Ivan Kitler, David Jefferies, Randy Baskin, Jim Fensom, Joe Vale, Walter Moody, Bradley Gagne, Donald Moroz, William Leonard, Roy Antonio, David Robidoux, Robbie Robinson, Michael Gaudreau, Richard Cox, Peter Lajeunesse, Ronald Pacitto, Franco Campbell, James Luopa, Richard
Aug. 4, 1980 Sept. 10, 1980 Sept. 15, 1980 Sept. 15, 1980 Sept. 15, 1980 Oct. 20, 1980 Nov. 18, 1980 Feb. 2, 1981 Feb. 5, 1981 Feb. 5, 1981 Feb. 5, 1981 Feb. 18, 1981 May 11, 1981 May 19, 1981 July 6, 1981 July 15, 1981 Oct. 14, 1981 Mar. 30, 1983 Mar. 30, 1983 Mar. 30, 1983 May 16, 1983 May 25, 1983 Dec. 1, 1983 Feb. 6, 1984 Feb. 6, 1984 Feb. 13, 1984 Feb. 13, 1984 Feb. 14, 1984 Feb. 27, 1984 Feb. 27, 1984 Mar. 19, 1984 Mar. 20, 1984 Mar. 20, 1984 Apr. 17 1984 Apr. 17, 1984 Apr. 17, 1984
865-	2858 855-9812 869-4032 368-2057 869-4026 869-1102 869-4091 869-2150 368-2925 368-2925 869-2177 368-3440 869-3798 983-2328 869-4071 560-1378 692-9173
866-	2425 692-3818
692-	3200
693-	3058 869-4427 869-3533 869-3513 869-3019 869-4659 869-1433 869-3682 869-3292 866-0304 869-2316
865-	2812 869-3306 869-4484 869-1118
866-	0121
46
50872	0210
50873	0211
50874	0212
50875	0213
50876	0214
50877	0215
50878	0216 S08860217 SO8880218 S0896 0219 S08970220 SO8980221 so9010222 S0902 0223
50904	0224
50905	0225 S09070228 S09100227 so911 0228 S0914 0229 S0924 0230 S09470231 S0948 0232 S09490233 S0977 0234 S0982 0235 SO9830236 S09870237 SO9880238 S09890239 SO9900240
50992	0241
50993	0242 S0998 0243 SO9980244 S0997 0245 S1034 0246
Nauha, Larry Lacasse, Daniel Austin, Joel Leblanc, Denis Montgomery, Paul Fenton, Dan Dillabough, William Levert, Francis Nott, Robert Man Alstine, Kevin Clement, Todd Shank, Guy Catling, Wayne Roy, Marc Michon, Peter Desforges, Jean Olding, Jim Gillespie, Perry Larocque, Rheal Stinson, Gary Bolduc, George Bolduc, Jack Kingston, Roy Moffatt, Marlin Boulard, Lloyd Oderkirk, John Diebel, Peter Podlatis, Geunther Laramee, Michel Roy, Gaston Massiootte.Raymend Moffatt, Matthew Wasyliw, Allan Sawyer, Kyle Hales, Robert Scheel, Roger Dam, Mike
Apr. 18, 1984 Apr. 18, 1984 Apr. 18, 1984 Apr. 23, 1984 Apr. 23, 1984 Apr. 23, 1984 Apr. 23, 1984 June 18, 1984 June 28, 1984 July 20, 1984 July 23, 1984 Aug. 21, 1984 Oct. 15, 1984 Oct. 22, 1984 Nov. 19, 1984 Nov. 18, 1984 Nov. 20, 1984 Nov. 27, 1984 Nov. 27, 1984 Apr. 15, 1985 May 29, 1985 July 3, 1985 Jan. 20, 1986 Apr. 8, 1988 July 2, 1986 Sept. 8, 1986 Sept. 8, 1986 Sept. 8, 1986 Sept. 8, 1988 Sept. 8, 1988 Sept. 8, 1986 Sept. 9, 1986 Sept. 25, 1986 Mar. 10, 1987 Mar. 12, 1987 Mar. 18, 1987 Sept. 3, 1987
869-3276
889-1468
869-4291
869-4374
889-2539
368-2438
869-1047
869-3249
889-4885
869-1155
889-4195
989-7698
889-1538
869-3254
889-1638
869-2862
865-2346
869-2928
869-4259
889-2678
UNLISTED
869-4815
889-1678
889-4528
889-4825
869-2088
869-2891
885-3044
888-	2874
889-	4051 869-2436 865-2157 889-4228 859-3418 889-4534 889-1690 889-3855
47
51035	0247
51030	0248 S1033 0249 S1027 0250 S1029 0251
51031	0252
51036	0253 S1042 0254
51044	0255
51045	0256
51046	0257
51047	0258
51048	0259
51049	0260 S1051 0261
51053	0262
51054	0263
51055	0264
51056	0265
51057	0266
51058	0267
51081	0268 S1062 0289 S1065 0270 S1089 0271
51070	0272
51071	0273
51072	0274 S1075 0275
51078	0276
51079	0 277
51080	0278
51082	0280
51083	0281
51084	0282
51085	0283 S1088 0284
Caldwell, Bill Massicotte, Dan Deschamps, Andre O'Brien, Shawn Hearn, Tim Spry, Allan Delisle, Paul Ritchie, Gerald Dezelak, Leah Borton, Bill Bond, Fred Rydall, Steven Tessier, Todd Beaulieu, Leonard Eng, Bernard Murphy, Sean Arnold, Wayne Podlatis, Karin Wyszynski, Doug Hall, Michael Martel, Robby Basinet, Pierre Cormier, Sharon Shawanda-Blais, G Podlatis, Anje Cox, Jason Miller, David Lefebvre, Lianne Fabianiak, John Massicotte, Lise Carriere, Steven Kelly, Natalie Delaney, Mike Rowe, Lloyd Mirault, Roland Ranger, Victor Dandenault, Allain
48
Sept. 3, 1987 Sept. 4, 1987 Sept. 4, 1987 Sept. 8, 1987 Sept. 8, 1987 Sept. 8, 1987 Sept. 10, 1987 Dec. 10, 1987 Mar. 3, 1988 Mar. 3, 1988 Mar. 5, 1988 Mar. 7,. 1988 Mar. 18, 1988 Mar. 21, 1988 Apr. 30, 1988 May 3, 1988 May 3, 1988 May 11, 1988 May 9, 1988 May 12, 1988 May 16, 1988 May 14, 1988 May 17, 1988 May 19, 1988 May 21, 1988 May 21, 1988 May, 28, 1988 May 28, 1988 May 28, (988 June 20, 1988 June 22, 1988 June 20, 1988 June 24, 1988 June 27, 1988 July 4, 1988 July 4, 1988 July 5, 1988
865-2816
869-4505
869-3100
869-5046
869-3137
368-3134
869-3220
865-	3191
866-	0345 869-2880 368-2328 869-2214 869-2588 889-2270 889-2681 869-3247 869-1499 865-3044 886-0191 869-3424 869-2382 897-5081 869-3198 869-2611 865-3044 869-2441 869-4158
865-	2274
866-	0244 885-3059 865-2526 889-4671 889-4782 869-4541 869-2823 868-0031 889-2779
SCHEDULE“D”
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
1.	Weekend Maintenance Schedule
2.	Filling Job Postings re Article 12:07.
3.	Layoff & Recall after Layoff.
4.	Floating Flolidays.
5.	Coveralls.
6.	Disputed Workers’ Compensation Board Claims.
7.	Weekly Indemnity.
8.	Meals.
9.	Electrical Maintenance.
10.	Posted Back-Up Positions.
11.	Climatic Controls.
12.	Flours of Work.
49
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
WEEKEND MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE Permanent Vacancies:
1)	When permanent vacancies occur in the regular work force the maintenance employees working the weekend schedule will be allowed to bid on those vcancies (as per Article 12:07).
Pay Cheques:
2)	Employees working the weekend maintenance schedule will be allowed to pick-up their pay cheques earlier on Thursday, when available.
Vacation, Sickness or Accidents:
3)	Weekend maintenanceemployees will be used to supplement regular crews for vacations, sickness or accidents only when necessary.
Statutory Holiday Pay:
4)	Weekend maintenance employees required to work on a Statutory Holiday could be paid the following ways:
a)	Receive time and one-half only for time worked and bank eight hours or one day. It is to be understood that bank time taken must be taken at a time agreeable to both parties and that whole days must be used.
b)	Receive pay for day worked as per Article 7:03.
5)	Weekend maintenance schedule employee's vacations will be scheduled by weekends.
Work Schedule:
6)	It is to be understood that the hours of work would be as follows:
a) Friday 7 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. mealtime excepted.
Satuday 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. mealtime excepted first 8 hours.
50
Sunday 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. mealtime excepted first 8 hours, b) Saturday 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. mealtime excepted first 8 hours
Sunday 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. mealtime excepted first 8 hours.
Monday 7 a.m. too 3:30 p.m. mealtime excepted.
It is further understood that the last 4 hours of work on Saturday and Sunday will include a 20 minute paid lunch perio.d
7)	The Company and the Union accept the principal that the intent of the maintenance seven day schedule is to eliminate outside contractors doing normal maintenance work. The Company will strive to uphold this principal during the life of this agreement.
E.C. McMANUS
GENERAL MANAGER — SAWMILLS
R. MacDONALD
PRESIDENT - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION -LOCAL 31
R. CASSON
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE — CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
51
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
FILLING JOB POSTINGS RE ARTICLE 12:07
This will confirm our understandingduring the term of the Collective Agreement, September 1, 1988 to August 31,1991 regarding the filling of job vacancies.
It is agreed that for permanent vacancies, the successful, senior employee of the applicants io fill the vacancy, as per existing clause 12:01, will be given preference to any junior employee provided that:
(a)	He had occupied that job previously and is qualified to meet the job requirements, or,
(b)	Should training be required to meet the job requirement, he will be allowed the necessary time of training, or
(c)	He has qualified to do the job.
(1)	There will be no limitation on upward mobility.
(2)	Lateral or down bids with reference to job postings will be limited to one successful bid per six month period.
When an employee bids down, prior to acceptance of the bid, discussions with the Union may take place to reflect the effect on the operation.
If the effect of lateral or down bidding seriously affects the operation of the plant, the Company and the local Union agree to meet immediately and solve the problem.
52
The local Union committee will be advised of the successful applicant prior to placing the employee on the job.
A junior qualified employee may fill a vacancy temporarily while another employee is being trained.
E.C. McMANUS
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
R. MacDONALD
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION-LOCAL 31
R. CASSON
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
53
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNIONS AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
LAYOFF & RECALL AFTER LAYOFF
(1)	People retain the right to their last successful bid upon job classification during a layoff situation. This becomes their “regular” classification.
(2)	While awaiting return to their “regular” job classification they may bid, and if successful fill another vacancy. When a position in their “regular” classification comes open, due to recall and their seniority allows it, they will be offered the one time chance to return. If rejected, their new classification becomes their “regular” classification.
(3)	Any job classification which requires an additional employee will not be posted as a vacancy unless there are no people re-mainingthat have been displaced from their “regular” classification due to layoff. If there are no people as above, the job classification will then be posted as a permanent vacancy.
(4)	Should an employee leave a job he had successfully bid upon, to return to his “regular” classification, that job will be posted as a vacancy unless people in that classification are also available due to layoff.
E.C. McMANUS
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
R. MacDONALD
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION -LOCAL 31
R. CASSON
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
54
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE
FLOATING HOLIDAYS
In an attempt to distribute floating holidays as fairly and as numerous at one time as possible, the following has been agreed to:
On any given day floaters will be allocated by Company wide seniority but within operational areas. All requests must be on the Personnel Supervisor's desk at least three (3) days previous to the requested floater.
Floaters will be allocated in the operational areas as follows:
Woodyard, Processor & Small Log Mill
Planer
Debarker & Large Log Mill
Chip & Hog Fuel Drivers
Electricians
Millwrights & Set-Up Men
Mechanics
Six in total - one per shift, two off after 4:00 p.m. - 8:00 a.m.
Three in total - one per shift.
Two in total - one per shift.
One.
One.
Two plant wide.
One.
Filers
One.
TOTAL
Seventeen
55
This has been agreed to in the best interest of all personnel involved, however, it in no way is intended to change the existing Labour Agreement.
The cooperation of all employees and supervisory personnel is requested to make this system work.
E.C. McMANUS
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
R. MacDONALD
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERSUNION - LOCAL 31
R. CASSON
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
56
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
COVERALLS
The Company will supply tradesmen, that is, millwrights, mechanics, electricians, filers and utility operators with suitable coveralls as made available by a supply service of Company choice. Fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the laundering will be borne by the employee.
Each employee would have a set of five (5) coveralls for his personal use. He would be issued a clean pair of coverallseach week upon return of this soiled pair. The Company will pay the full cost of laundering one (1) pair of coveralls.
The individualemployee will be responsible for loss or damage to the coveralls for normal wear and tear; however, coveralls damaged by unforeseen circumstancesbeyond his control will be replaced by the Company after inspection.
Insulated coveralls will be supplied by the Company when required, the cost of laundering will be paid by the Company.
EC. McMANUS
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
R. MacDONALD
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31
R. CASSON
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - CANADIAN
PAPERWORKERS UNION
57
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
DISPUTED W.C.B. CLAIMS
It is understood that when delays in excess of fifteen (15) days occur in Workers' Compensation payments due to a dispute, the Company is prepared to advance an employee two weeks benefits to be repaid when payment is received. It is understood that the two weeks payment will be equivalent to two weeks of Weekly Indemnity benefits. It is further understood that every two weeks after the first advance a further two week advance will be issued until such time as the dispute is settled and the compensation payments begin.
If a Workers' Compensation Board claim is denied, repayment to the Company will be made when the employee receives payment through Weekly Indemnity.
The fifteen (15) day period will begin from the day the claimant reports his injury to his foreman.
E.C. McMANUS
R. MacDONALD
PRESIDENT - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31
R. CASSON
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE- CANADIAN
PAPERWORKERS UNION
58
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE
WEEKLY INDEMNITY
It is understood and agreed that any employee placed under a quarantine due to either contact with or suffering from a communicable disease will be covered by Weekly Indemnity. It is also understood and agreed that any employee who is off work for treatment due to alcohol or drug addiction and is underthe care of a licensed physician will be covered under Weekly Indemnity. The normal three day waiting period will apply.
E.C. McMANUS
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
R. MacDONALD
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31
R. CASSON
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
59
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERSUNION AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
MEALS
Arrangements have been made with a restaurant to deliver meals to the Sawmill. The meals will be in a Styrofoam container and transported in a thermal box. The Company has installed a microwave oven in the main office kitchen and meals will be heated when required before delivery to the employees. The Company agrees that, unless notified the previous day, an employee who is required to work a minimum of two (2) hours beyond his regular hours will be provided with a meal at the Company's expense. After the provision of the first meal, under this Section a hot meal will be provided every four (4) hours thereafter at the Company's expense. Employeeswho agree to work for at least twelve (12) hours in a day (excludingweekend scheduled maintenance crews) will be provided with a meal after eight (8) hours. If an employee continues to work after twelve (12) hours, he will receive a meal every four (4) hours after the first one. The Company will provide refrigeratorsand microwave ovens in the following recognized lunch rooms:
1)	Large Log Mill 4) Electrical Shop	7) Garage
2)	Filing Room 5) Small Log Mill
3)	Planer	6) Processor Area West
Note: Processor Area East lunch room will be in the Small Log area.
EC. McMANUS
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
R. MacDONALD
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31
R. CASSON
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE- CANADIAN
PAPERWORKERS UNION
60
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
ELECTRICAL MAINTENANCE
It is the policy of the Company to have no one but electricians perform maintenance work on electrical equipment.
Only trained electrical personnel are permitted to reset inside an electrical panel.
E.C. McMANUS
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
R. MacDONALD
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31
R. CASSON
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
61
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
POSTED BACK-UP POSITIONS
The Company agrees, for employees who have accepted agreed to posted back-up positions, when a permanent vacancy occurs in that position, the senior back-up employee will be promoted to fill the vacancy.
E.C. McMANUS
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
R. MacDONALD
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31
R. CASSON
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
62
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
CLIMATIC CONTROLS
The Company agrees to install “Climatic Controls” in the following vehicles: #814, 817, 821, 832, 839 and 845 by June 1, 1989. Furthermore, the Company agrees that new mobile equipment purchased in the future, where feasible, will be equipped with “climatic controls”.
E.C. McMANUS
GENERAL MANAGER ■ SAWMILLS
R. MacDONALD
PRESIDENT - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31
R. CASSON
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - CANADIAN
PAPERWORKERS
UNION
63
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
HOURS OF WORK
The following is the Company’s interpretation of 11:05, 3rd paragraph:
An employee called out for overtime work will be paid a minimum of four hours at time and one-half or eight hours at time and one-half for employees working more than four hours.
An employee previously requested to work overtime before the start of his regular day or shift will be paid time and one-half for hours worked prior to the commencement of his regular day or shift.
E.C. McMANUS
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
R. MacDONALD
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UN ION- LOCAL 31
R. CASSON
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
64
DATEDAT NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIOTHIS DAY OF, 1988
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
E B Eddy Forest Products Ltd Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations
G B Bailey Vice-President of Forestry & Wood Products
€ r ■j.
E.C. McManus General Manager - Sawmills
//'
G.A. Payette^
Manager of Mill Services
B.G. Camnoell PersonnerManager
C. Reid
Personnel Assistant
Canadian Paperworkers Union and its Local 31

Y Casson National Representative

R. MacDonald President - Local 31

W. Vale

R. Thibeault
L. Yoong
LJ
F.A. Cashman Manager of Industrial Relations
65
SCHEDULE“E
GENERAL INFORMATION Plan Effective Date
The benefits described in this booklet are in effect as of September 1, 1988.
Eligibility
All full-time hourly employees who are members of the Canadian Paperworkers Union and its Local 31 are eligible to participate in this plan.
If you have dependents you may insure them as well. Your spouse is eligible and your unmarried children (including adopted, foster and stepchildren). Dependent children are insured up to age 21.
Any mentally retardedor physically handicapped children may remain insured past the maximum age provided the child is incapable of self-sustaining employment and is wholly dependent on you for support and maintenance.
Effective Date of Coverage
You become eligible for Life Insurance after having completed 30 work days of continuous active full-time employment and Long Term Disability immediately upon becoming insured for Weekly Indemnity benefits.
Your Weekly Indemnity coverage, and that of your dependents, is effective after having completed 30 work days of continuous active full-time employment. Your Dental coverage, as well as your dependents’, iseffectiveon the date you complete a waiting period of 90 work days or service for full-time and full pay.
66
Your Vision Care coverage, and that of your dependents, is effective after having completed 90 work days of continuous active full-time employment.
Your Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care plans, and that of your dependents, is effective on the first day of the fourth month following the date you were employed for full time and full pay.
If you are actively insured for personal coverage and later acquire a dependent, you may enroll your dependent in the Health plan by notifying the Personnel Office.
If you are not actively at work on the date your Weekly Indemnity, Medical, Dental or Vision coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on your return to work for full time and full pay.
If one of your dependents is hospitalized on the date Medical coveragewould normally become effective, coverage will commence on the day following discharge from the hospital.
How to obtain the insurance
To obtain the insurance described in this booklet, you should complete and sign all necessary application cards. No medical examination is required for you if you apply for the insurance within the times stated.
If you leave our employ
Your group insurance will terminate if you leave our employ. You have the right to change your Life Insurance to an individual policy as available by the carrier.
67
LIFE INSURANCE
Death Benefit
In the event on your death from any cause, your Life Insurance under the Plan will be paid to the beneficiary you have named. If you have named more than one beneficiary and one of those beneficiaries should die before you, his or her share of the insurance will be paid to the surviving beneficiaries or if there is none, it will be paid to your estate.
The amount of your Life Insurance is $30,000.00. In no event shall your insurance continue beyond your date of retirement.
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefit
If, as a result of an accident, you suffer any of the losses listed below within 90 days of the accident, payment will be made as indicated. The principal amount of your Accident Death and Dismemberment Insurance is an amount equal to the amount of your Group Life Insurance.
LOSS OF:
—	Life.
—	Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of both eyes.
—	Both hands by severance at or above wrist joints.
—	Both feet by severance at or above ankle joints.
—	One hand or one foot by severance at or above wrist or ankle joints respectively, together with the total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye.
—	Loss of one hand and one foot by severance at or above wrist and ankle joints respectively.
One-half of the Principal Amount shall be payable for:
—	Loss of one hand by severance at or above wrist joint.
—	Loss of one foot by severance at or above ankle joint.
—	Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye.
1.	If more than one of the losses specified in the Schedule of Losses and Indemnities shown above shall be sustained by the employee as a result of any one accident, payment shall not exceed the Principal Amount of Accidental Death and
68
Dismemberment Insurance on the employee at the date of such accident.
2.	If an employee has suffered prior to the date of becoming insured hereunder; or does thereafter suffer; the loss of one hand by severance at or above the wrist joint or one foot by severance at or above the ankle joint, or the total and irrecoverable loss of the sight of one eye, the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance on the employee shall be issued or continued for the full amount according to the Schedule of Insurancepro-vided that the amount of Insurance payable for the loss of one hand, one foot, or the sight of one eye shall be one-half the principal amount of the Insurance.
3.	The Insurance shall not cover accident, injury, death or other loss which shall result either directly or indirectly, from any one of the following:
(a)	self-destruction or self-inflicted injuries while sane or insane;
(b)	committing or attempting to commit an assault or criminal offence;
(c)	riot, civil commotion, insurrection, war or hostilities of any kind, or any act incident thereto;
(d)	bodily or mental infirmity or illness or disease of any kind;
(e)	the inhalation of gas of any kind, voluntarily or otherwise, resulting in poisoning, asphyxiation or any other condition causing death;
(f)	poisoning or infection, other than infections occurring simultaneously with and in consequence of an accidental cut or wound;
(g)	injuries of which there is no visible contusion or wound on the exterior of the body, unless drowning or internal injuries are revealed by autopsy;
(h)	participating in aeronautics other than as permitted under the carriers policy.
69
Conversion Privilege
When your insurance terminates because of termination of your employment, you will have the privilege of converting your Life Insurance, within the next 31 days without medical examination, to a new policy on any of the carriers regular plans for an amount not exceeding the amount of your Group Life Insurance.
If you die during the 31 day period in which you might have exercised this conversion privilege, your beneficiary will be paid the amount of Life Insurance which you would have been entitled to convert.
Long Term Disability Insurance Disability
During the first year of income payments your disability must prevent you from performing any and every duty relating to your regular job or engaging in any occupation or performing any work in the sawmill. After that time you will be considered totally disabled if you are unable to engage in any occupation or perform in any work in the sawmill for which the carrier considers you to be reasonably qualified by education, training or experience. However, if you are working or engage in any occupation for wage or profit other than rehabilitation employment approved by the carrier, you will not be considered to be totally disabled.
Basic Monthly Earnings
Your regular monthly earnings on which your benefit will be based will exclude overtime pay, bonuses and other special compensation as at the date you become disabled.
Benefit
If you become totally disabled before you are 65 and your disability lasts longer than 52 weeks of benefits under the employer's Weekly Indemnity Plan, you will be paid a monthly income which is payable at the end of each month of disability as long as you are disabled but not beyond age 65 and in no
70
event for more than the number of completed months equal to the employee's service. You must be under treatment by a licensed physician to receive benefits.
The amount of income for which you are eligible will be reduced as follows:
1.	By any payment for loss of time to which you are entitled from Workers' Compensation and Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, excluding any payment in respect of your children.
2.	Further reductions will be made so that the amount you would receive from the carrier and from any other sources (any other group, association and governmental insurance, sick leave or retirement plan of your employer) does not exceed 85% of your basic monthly earnings.
Generally, your monthly benefit is considered taxable income. If it is not taxable, the 85% limit would apply to your basic earnings after deductions have been made for income tax and pension plan.
Estimates of disability income from any of these sources will be used until the actual benefits have been established.
If a Disability Recurs
If you become totally disabled again within six months due to the same or related cause and not receiving any income disability benefits, payments will commence again without the necessity of completing the 52 weeks. Disabilities occurring after the six month period will be treated as if no prior disability had occurred and the 52 week period must be completed again.
71
General
The group insurance policy must be in force when your disability commences but payments will continue even if the policy is terminated as long as you remain disabled.
Limitations
Coverage is made as broad as possible. However, exclusions include self-inflicted injury; disabilities resulting from riot, civil commotion, insurrection, war or hostilities of any kind, or active duty in any armed service during a time of war.
Weekly Indemnity Benefit
If you are totally disabled, unable to work, and under the continuing care of a physician, you will receive a weekly income not exceeding 70% of your weekly earnings. Your benefits will commence on the earlier of:
1.	The fourth day of disability caused by sickness.
2.	The first day of a disability due to an accident.
3.	The first day of hospitalization.
During any one period of disability your benefits will continue until you recover or for a maximum of 52 weeks, whichever is earlier.
Exceptions and Limitations
Disability benefits are not payable for the following:
1.	A disability caused by self-inflicted injuries or illness.
2.	A disability resulting from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country, or participation in a riot.
3.	A disability due to any cause at any time when you are on pregnancy leave of absence or could be placed on such leave by your employer in accor-
72
dance with the relevant Provincial Statutes or that
agreed upon by you and your employer.
4.	For any disability for which you are entitled to benefits under any Worker’s Compensation Act.
5.	At any time when you are on vacation and receiving full pay.
Health Care Benefits Drug Coverage
Your drug plan coverage, and that of your dependents, is effective on the first day of the second month following the date you were employed for full time and full pay. Drugs, serum, and injectibles purchasedon a prescription of a medical doctor, except for vitamins and vitamin preparations(unless injected) and patent or proprietary medicines are eligible for coverage by this drug plan and available by presentingyour personal identification card supplied by the carrier and a 35b deductible fee per prescription.
Hospital Coverage
Your Provincial Health Plan provides ward coverage for inhospital accommodation. This additional coverage allows you, and your dependents, semi-private in-hospital accommodation. This semi-private hospital coverage is effective on the first day of the fourth month following the date you were employed for full-time and full pay.
Dental Benefit
On behalf of each covered individual in your family, the Dental Benefit will reimburse you for dental expenses based on the percentages indicated by the carrier. The maximum amount payable per individual for services is $1,000.00.
Treatment Plan
In order for you and your dentist to learn in advance how much the carrier will pay and how much must be paid by you, it is recommended that a Treatment Plan be filed with the carrier
73
whenever the total cost of the proposed dental work is expected to exceed $200.00. The Treatment Plan identifiescoverage and limitations for specific services and clarifies insurance percentages, specific limits and Dental Fee Guide allowance before dental treatment commences. The Treatment Plan is not intended to limit you in your choice of dentist, to tell you or your dentist what treatment should be performed or to tell the dentist 1 what fee to charge.
A Treatment Plan is a plan of dental treatment (including x-rays if required) showing the patient's dental needs, a written description of the proposed treatment necessary in the professional judgement of the dentist, and the cost of the proposed treatment.
Eligible Expenses
Eligible expenses are those which are recommended as necessary by a physician or dentist that are not in excess of the fee specified for general practitioners in the 1987 Dental or Denturist Fee Guide of the Province of Ontario. Fees for specialists will be considered if the patient was referred by a physician or another dentist. There are several dental procedures which are covered by Provincial Health Plans up to certain max-imums. If the dentist or dental surgeon chooses to charge more than that payable by the Provincial Plan, legislation in some provinces does not permit the excess charges to be eligible under this Plan.
Situations may arise where alternate methodsof treatment may be available. It is solely for you and your dentist to decide which method will be employed. The carrier reserves the right to use the least expensive method of treatment that would provide a professionally adequate result as the basis for determiningtheir liability.
Only those treatments listed are eligible.
The following treatments are payable at 100%: EXAMINATIONS:
Initial examination of a new patient
(once every 3 years)...................01110, 01120, 01130
74
Re-examination of a previous patient
(once every 6 months)...............................01200
Specific examination................................01400
Emergency examination and/or consultation. .01300, 94400
94100,94200
CONSULTATIONS:
Treatment planning - per unit	of time...............05100
With patient........................................05200
Another dentist.....................................93100
SPECIFIC DIAGNOSTIC PROCEDURES:
Bacteriologic cultures for determination
of pathologic agents................................04100
Dental caries susceptibility	test...................04200
Biopsy, soft-hard tissue....................04300, 04310
Cytological examination.............................04330
Pulp vitality tests.................................04400
RADIOGRAPHIC EXAMINATION AND INTERPRETATION (X-RAY):
Intraoral periapical films, complete series..........02100
Intraoral periapical films,
- one to ten films.....................02111,	02120	incl.
Occlusal films.........................02131,	02134	incl.
Posterior bitewing films...............02141,	02144	incl.
Extraoral films........................02201,	02204	incl.
Sinus examination....................................02304
Sialography..........................................02400
Use of radiopaque dyes to demonstrate lesions.....02430
Temporomandibular joint films..............02504, 02505
Panoramic film.......................................02600
Cephalometric films....................02701,	02705	incl.
Interpretation of radiographs from
another source - per unit of time....................02800
Tomography...........................................02920
Hand and wrist
(as diagnostic aid for dental treatment).............02930
PREVENTIVE SERVICES:
Scaling and polishing................11100, 11200, 11300
Topical fluoride treatment...........................12400
75
Oral hygiene instruction.......................13200,	13210
Occlusal equilibration................................43310
TREATMENT OF DENTAL CARIES (FILLINGS)
Sedative (palliative) dressing........................39930
AMALGAM RESTORATIONS:
Primary teeth........................21101,	21105	incl.
Permanent anterior and bicuspid teeth.. .21211,	21215	incl.
Permanent molar teeth................21221,	21225	incl.
Pin reinforcement....................21301,	21305	incl.
Silicate restorations..........................22101,	22102
Acrylic or composite restorations..23101, 23223 incl.
SURGICAL SERVICES - REMOVAL OF TEETH:
(REMOVAL OF ERUPTED TOOTH - UNCOMPLICATED)
Single tooth..........................................71101
Each additional tooth in same surgical site...........71111
SURGICAL REMOVALS:
Removal of erupted tooth (complicated)................72100
Removal of impacted tooth......................72210,	72220
72230, 72240
REMOVAL OF RESIDUAL ROOTS:
Soft tissue coverage..................................72310
Bone tissue coverage..................................72320
Anaesthesia........................92110, 92120, 92201
92202, 92215, 92251 92252, 92310, 92311 92330, 92340
PERIODONTAL SERVICES
(DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF GUM TISSUE)
NON-SURGICALSERVICES - PER UNIT OF TIME
Application of displacement	dressing..................41100
Management of acute infections and
other oral lesions....................................41200
Desensitization of tooth surface......................41300
SURGICAL SERVICES:
Gingival curettage...
Gingivoplasty........
Gingivectomy.........
42001
42002
42003
76