AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
E.B.EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
(hereinafter referred to as the 'Company')
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31
(hereinafter referred to as the 'Union')
Covering the Period
September 1 st, 1992 to August 31 st, 1995
CONTENTS
Article I Article II Article III Article IV Article V Article VI Article VII Article VIII Article IX Article X Article XI Article XII Article XIII Article XIV
Article XV Article XVI Article XVII Article XVIII Article XIX Article XX
Purpose
Period
Recognitionand Jurisdiction Rates and Classifications Union Membership Vacations With Pay Holidays With Pay Adjustment of Grievances No Strike-No Lockout Working Conditions Hours of Work Seniority Bulletin Boards Health and Welfare 14:01 Weekly Indemnity 14:02 Long Term Disability 14:03 Group Life Insurance 14:04 Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care Plans 14:05 Dental Care Plan 14:06 Vision Care Plan 14:07 Benefits at Lay Off
Page
1
1
1
3
4
5 7 9 13 13 16 19 23
23-31
23
24 28 29
29
30 30
Pension Plan Bereavement Pay Jury Duty Leave of Absence Severance Pay Apprenticeship Plan
31
33
34
34
35
36
Schedule" A Schedule “B” Schedule “C" Scheduled”
Schedule "E"
Trades Training - Schedule of Wage Rates Occupation Codes, Rates, Dates Union Seniority List Letters of Understanding
1.	Weekend MaintenanceSchedule
2.	Filling Job Postings le Article 12:07
3.	LayOff and Recall After LayOff
4.	Floating Holidays
5.	Coveralls
6.	DisputedW.C.B. Claims
7.	Weekly Indemnity
8.	Meals
9.	Electrical Maintenance
10.	Posted Back-Up Positions
11.	Climatic Controls
12.	Hours of Work
Page
39
40 43
50-65
51
53
55
56 56
59
60 61 62
63
64
65
General Information
67-82
INDEX
	Article
Adjustment of Grievances	VIII
Apprenticeship Plan	XX
Automation	XII
Benefits at Lay Off	XIV
BereavementLeave	XVI
Bulletin Board	XIII
Call Outs	XI
Climatic Controls	
Compassionate Leave	XVI
Contracting Out	III
Coveralls	X
Coveralls	
Dental Plan	XIV
Disputed WCB Claims	
Electrical Maintenance	
Exchange of Shifts	XI
Floating Holidays	VII
Grievance Procedure	VIII
Hours of Work	XI
Hours of Work	
Job Postings	XII
Joint Healths Safety Committee	X
Joint Health & Safety Conference	X
Jurisdiction	III
Jury Duty, Crown Witness,	
Subpoenaed Witness	XVII
Leaves of Absence	XVIII
Letters of Understanding	
Page
9
36
23
30
33
23
19
64
33 2 16
58 29
59 62 18 7 9 16
65 19
13
14 1
34 34
50-65
INDEX (cont.)
Article	Page
Life Insurance	XIV
Long Term Disability	XIV
Meals	
Membership	V
New Job Classifications	IV
Pension Plan	XV
Periodof Agreement	II
Posted Back Up Positions	
Probationary Period	XII
Purpose of Agreement	I
Recognition	III
Safety Equipment and Apparel	X
Semi-Private Hospital Care	XIV
Seniority	XII
Seniority Ranking	
Severance Pay	XIX
Shift Differential	XI
Shift Workers Schedule	XI
Statutory Holidays	VII
Trades Tools	X
Trades Training- Schedule of Rates	
Union Membership	V
Vacations With Pay	VI
Vision Care Plan	XIV
Wage Schedule	
Weekend Maintenance	
Weekly Indemnity	XIV
28
24
61
4
3 31 1
63
20
1
1
15
29 19
43-49
35
17
16 7 14 39
4
5
30
40-42
51
23
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1:01	Thepurposeofthis Agreement is to secure forthe Company
and the Unionthe full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages and working conditions as specified in Articles of this Agreement and to secure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operations, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This agreement moreoverseeks to providefor fair and peacefuladjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
1 :OZ Throughout this agreement, use of the masculine gender shall be considered also to include the feminine.
ARTICLE II- PERIOD
2:01 The Company and the Union agree one with the otherthat they will abide bvthe Articles of this Aareementfrom September 1st. 1992 to August 31 st, 1995 inclusive, and from year to year thereafter unless either party desires to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case, the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to September 1st of the particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party, in writing, as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITIONAND JURISDICTION
3:01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective
bargaining agent for all its employees employed by the Company on its
operations in Nairn Township.
1
For the purpose of this Article, employees shall be all those employed on the job classifications set out on the Wage Schedule attached to and forming part of the Agreement, including those who are engaged on job classifications which may be established and become part of the Wage Schedule during the term of the Agreement. This provision excludes: Foremen, persons above the rank of Foreman, Scalers, Office Staff and Security Personnel.
3:01	(b) Theemployees of contractors engaged on operationsof the
Company in Nairn Township shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement, save and except the employees of contractors and/or contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work. The Union will be advised at least two (2) weeks in advance of any Company plans to "contract out work except in the case of a genuine emergency.
3:02	(a) Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors, whose
employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classificationscovered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involve physical danger to employees or danger to property.
3:02 (b) The Company will not contract out repair and maintenance work which is normally performed by the maintenance crew, for which the millis equipped, forwhich crews are available and which employees are capable of performing.
3:03	It is agreed that Company operations shall notbeinterrupted
as the result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union affiliated with the C.L.C. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such matters as
2
fixed by the C.L.C. and the Company will not be asked to act upon any matter of jurisdiction between organizations of the C.L.C.
ARTICLE IV- RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4:01 The Wage Schedule is attached hereto and forms a part of this Agreement.
4:02 If, during the life cf this Agreement, a significant change in the job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached Wage Schedule, the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations betweenthe parties. Uponfailureto reach Agreement, the mattermay be referredto Stage III of the Grievance Procedure.
4:03 For job classifications not listed in the attached Wage Schedule, the Company shall set a temporary wage rate. Where the Company has prior knowledge of the necessity for establishing a new job classification, the Company will notify the Union, in writing, at least two (2)weeks in advance, and if the Union requests, the Company will discuss the applicable rates and conditions prior to the commencement of the new job. Where circumstances require immediate and unforeseen establishment of a newjob classification, the Company will notify the Union, in writing, immediately.
Any such rates will be based on comparison with the prevailing rate for similar and/or related occupations in the attached Wage Schedule.
After a thirty (30) day trial period any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Union and, after such agreement is reached, it shall then become a part of the Wage Schedule and be attached thereto. It is understood that the thirty (30) day period can be extended by mutual consent of the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement on a rate or rates, the mattermay be referredto Stage III of the Grievance Procedure. Rates when established shall be retroactive to the date of establishment of the new job classifications.
3
ARTICLEV - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5:01 Any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union shall, as a condition of continuedemployment,maintainsuch membershipin good standing throughout the term of this Agreement. The Union shall be the sole judge as to whether an employeeis a member in good standing and shall notify the Company promptly of any change in the standing of any such employee.
5:02	(a) When hiring new employees, subject to the skill and ability
of the applicantsto perform the work requiredof them, the Companywill give preference to Union members.
If Union membersdo not apply the Company shall have the right to employ non-Union help.
The Company agrees to advise the Union from time to time of its labour requirements.
5:02	(b) New employees shall make application to join the Union *
when first approachedto do so by a duly authorized Union official. The Company shall upon hiring, advise all new employees to reportto the Financial Secretary within ten (10) days of commencing work. Failure of an employeeto comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate termination of employment.
5:03	(a) The Companywill deduct from all employeescovered by the
Labour Agreement from monies due them and remit to the Union, initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues but not fines, assessments or other levies.
5:03	(b) Deductionsso made will be remitted to the Union monthly,
said remittance to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names with Christian names as payrolled. Acopy of the list will begiven bythe Companytothe FinancialSecretaryofthe
4
Union or his representative.
5:03	(c) Yearly Unionduesdeductions willbeshown on the T-4slips.
5:04 Union representativesshall have the right to visit the operation in connection with Union business. Such representatives shall report to the Personnel Supervisor or Operations Manager on arrival.
5:05 The Union shall furnish the Companywith the listing of local Union officers and shall amend these lists promptly as changes occur.
5:06 The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the U nion office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if req uired, at the end of each month. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
ARTICLE VI - VACATIONS WITH PAY
6:01	(a) Vacation pay shall be paid to each employee by cheque to
be issued at the time of termination or when the vacation is taken. Vacation pay shall be paid to each employee by separate cheque.
6:01	(b) Vacation pay credits shall be paid to each employee on the
following basis:
(1)	Four percent (4%) of gross earnings for employees who have worked less than four (4) years in one period of employment with the Company.
(2)	Six percent (6%)of gross earningsfor employees who have worked more than four (4) years, but less than ten (1O) years in one period of employment with the Company.
(3)	Eight percent (8%) of gross earningsfor employees who have worked more than ten (10) years, but less than eighteen (18) years in one period of employment.
5
(4)	Ten percent (10%) of gross earning for employees who have worked more than eighteen (18) years.
(5)	In the case of employees whose period of employment dates backto June 1,1963, their years of service shall be calculatedas from June 1st, 1963. In the case of employees whose period of employment started after June 1st, 1963, years of service shall be calculated from date of hiring.
Status of present employees is as shown on Schedule “C” attached.
(6)	Employeeswill be paid one normal weeks earnings at their regular rate of pay for each week of vacation or 2% of gross earnings inthepreviouscalendaryears, whichever isgreater. Employees must have worked at least 750 hours during each calendaryear. Time off due to compensableaccidents shall be considered as time worked.
6:02 A period of employment is defined for purpose of this Agreement as:
(a)	In the case of an employeewho has established seniority as a period during which he maintains his accrued seniority.
(b)	In the case of a probationary employee as a period not broken by a leave or an absence of more than three (3) working days, excepting layoff.
6:03 An employee who has been continually employed for one year shall take vacation time off at a time which is satisfactory to the employee and the Company. Each two percent (2%) of vacation pay credit shall entitle an employee to one (1) week of time off each year.
6:04 Vacation scheduleswill becompleted by March 15thand vacations will be confirmed and posted by April 15th of each year.
6
6:05 Vacation requests made after March 15th will be confirmed as soon as possible but in no case later than one month after the request.
6:06 All employees will be Instructedon August 15 to schedule any outstandlngvacatlons at a time satisfactory to him and his supervisor. Employeeswho havenotscheduledtheiroutstanding vacation by September15 will have it assigned by the Company.
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7:01 Employees who have acquired seniority status by having completedtheir probationary period shall be qualified to be paid without the performance of work for the following holidays:
New Years Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday, and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
Canada Day and Remembrance Day may be observed on Friday or Monday with mutual agreement between parties.
Remembrance Day (November 11th) holiday will be observed during Christmasand NewYear's period. The shutdownday will be mutually agreed no later than September 1 st each year. If agreement of the date is not reached by September 1st, the holiday will be observed on November 11th.
In addition, employeeswho haveaccumulatedsix (6) months seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidays per contract year
7
(Septemberst to August 31st) to betaken at a time satisfactoryto the employeesand his supervisor. Floating holidays not taken priorto July 1st in each year will be scheduled.
An employee who, by reason of layoff, is prevented from taking hisfloating holiday(s) shall receive pay in lieu of such holiday(s).
7:02	(a) An employee who has established seniority in accordance
with Article XII, is eligible for holiday pay provided:
(i)	He works his lastscheduled shift priorto the holiday and first scheduled shift following the holiday, unless prevented by circumstances beyond his control, or
(ii)	If an employee has worked any of the available work days within the thirty (30)days immediatelyprior to the holiday, is on authorized leave of absencewhen the holidayoccurs, he shall receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during his absence, or
(iii)	An employee who is obliged to cease work due to layoff during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period, or
(iv)	An employee who is obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the twenty-one (21) day period immediately priorto the holiday shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such twenty-one (21) day period.
7:02 (b) Hourly paid employees will receive eight (8) times their hourly rate.
7:02 (c) Ifan employee who qualifies under Article XII is recalledand works anytime during the fourteen (14) calendar day period immedi-
8
ately following the holiday(s), he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday(s).
7:03 An employee who is requested to work on any of the holidaysinSection7:01 shall be paid for alltime worked atone and one-half times his regular rate up to eight (8) hours worked, and double time after eight (8) hours.
7:04 An employee on regular vacation during a week in which a statutory holiday falls, shall have the option of having a day off with pay at a time mutuallyconvenientto the employee and his supervisorwithin the following 90 days or having the holiday pay added to his regular vacation pay. If the employee elects not to defer his holiday payment, he must advise Management not later than ten (10) days prior to the commencement of his vacation period.
ARTICLE VIII - ADJUSTMENTOF GRIEVANCES
8:01 It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of an employee be adjusted as quickly as possible. It is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given his foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint. Prior to reducing a complaintto a grievance as per Article 8:03 the employee may request his Shop Steward to be present at any further discussion with his Foreman.
8:02	(a)The Company shall recognize the Grievance Committee
which shall consist of the President, two executive officers and at the discretion of the Grievance Committee the Steward involved.
It is understood that the Stewards and other Union officers shall not be absent from their regular duties in order to deal with a grievance without obtaining prior authorization from their Foreman.
The Company agrees to pay members of the Grievance
9
Committee for loss of wages for authorized time lost for handling of grievances.
The shop Stewards recognized by this Agreement shall be
as follows:
a)	Planer Mill (include mobile equipment operators)
b)	Large Log Mill (include mobile equipment operators)
c)	Small Log Mill (include mobile equipment operators)
d)	Processor&Yard (include mobile equipmentoperators&garage)
e)	Maintenance (include electrical crew)
When the operating schedule for (a) to (d) consists of more than one shift there will be one Steward on each shift.
8:02 (b) It is agreed that there shall be no discriminationexercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee members or other Union members.
8:03 Agrievance under the provisionof this Agreement is defined to be any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
8:04 STEP I - Grievances as defined above shall be taken by the employee together with the Union Steward having jurisdiction directly to the employee's immediate Area Supervisor for adjustment. Any grievances submitted to the Area Supervisor in accordance with this procedure shall be in writing and will be disposed of by the Area Supervisorin writing. Failingasatisfactory adjustmentwithin forty-eight (48) hours, then;
STEP II - The matter shall be taken up by a member of the Grievance Committee and the Steward having jurisdiction with the Personnel Supervisor, then;
10
STEP III -Within ten (10) days the mattershallbetakenup by the GrievanceCommitteewiththe General Managerof the Company or his representative. Failing a satisfactory adjustment then;
STEP IV - Within fifteen (15) days the matter shall be referred to the President of the Company or his representative by the Grievance Committee and the National Representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then;
STEP V - Either party may within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter to Arbitration.
In Arbitration,the Company and the Union shall each select one man; these two (2) shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nomination. The Arbitration Board's decision shall be final and binding on both partiesto this Agreement. Inthe event of the failure of the two (2) peopleselected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third party.
All time limits mentioned in the grievanceproceduremay be extended by mutual consent of the Company and the Union. If a grievanceis processedthroughto arbitrationthe Arbitration Boardshall have the power to relieve against noncomplianceof time limits.
8:06 It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpretand apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4:02 and rates for job classificationsunderSection4:03 andto revisethe ratestherefore. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
11
8:07 Sundays,Statutoryand Legal Holidaysshall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
8:08	A grievance arising from a claim by an employeethat his dis-
charge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with, in writing, by both parties and mustbepresentedto the Company not laterthan ten {10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Grievances dealing with suspension shall be processed inthe first step whenever possible. Where such an employee's grievance is not processed from the first step, it may be processedstarting at the second step of the Grievance Procedure. In the case of suspension by the Company, the Company shall notify the employee, inwriting, of the reasonfor such suspension.
Discharge grievances will be processed beginning at Step III of thegrievance procedure. The Companyshall notifytheemployee, in writing, the reason for discharge.
In the event that an employee is found by an Arbitration Boardto have been unfairlydischarged or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his job under terms and conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8:09 Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the board.
8:10	Grievanceswhich involve Company policy in respectto the
interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement maybe processed commencing at Step III of this grievance procedure.
8:11 Ifthe Company hasagrievance asdefined in Section8:03, it shall commence at Step II of this grievance procedure by the General Manager or his representative presenting the matter, in writing, to the officers of the Union.
12
8:12 Employeesto be disciplined (writtenwarning, suspension or
discharge) by the Company will be provided with Union representation.
When an employee has been indefinitely suspended from work, the parties will endeavor to meet before the employee's next regular scheduled shift or at a time agreeable to both parties.
ARTICLE IX- NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
There shall be no strike caused, called, or supported by the Union or its members, nor lockout by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLEX - WORKING CONDITIONS
10:01 (a) It is agreed thatthe Company and the Unionshallcooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a Joint Health & Safety Committeeto promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at least two (2) meetings of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of the Chairman shall alternate between a Company Co-chairman and a Union Co-chairman.
The Chairman of each meeting shall make a report in triplicate, copies going to the Company office, the Union office, and the bulletin boards.
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time off from his work as is necessaryto attend meetings of the Committee, and the timesospent shall be deemed to be worktimeforwhich he shall be paid straight time while on shift or time and one half if off shift for all hours in attendance at the safety meetings (call out time not applicable).
All required safety equipment (excluding safety boots) is providedat theemployee's induction,and on-the-job familiarization and safety training is provided by immediate supervisor.
13
10:01 (b) The Company agrees that Local 31 representatives will attend all future E.B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd./Canadian Paperwork-ersSafetyConferencesasobservers. Four(4)delegatesfrom Local31 may attend the conference. These delegates will becompensatedfor any loss of wages incurred as a result of attending the Conference.
10:02 It isagreedthatthere shall be properly equipped first-aid kits sufficient for normal requirements, located on the operation.
10:03 The Company agrees to provide a statement for each weekly pay period to all employees, showing all credits, deductions, hours of work and the rate per hour, all hours worked at premium rate, and the type of work performedby the employeeduring such pay period.
10:04 All hand tools and equipment required on the job will be made available to all employees on loan. When an operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a mechanical repair job, he will be furnished such tools as are required. All tools and equipment not returnedwill be charged for in full. Worn out or broken tools will be replacedwith serviceabletools free of charge providedthat the worn out or broken tools are returned. The Companywill provide free insurance against damage by fire or theft of tradesmen's tools normally required by tradesmen to the full replacement value of such tools. Employees will be required to furnish thesametoolswhichwererequired inthe past. Tradesmen, to be eligible for above insurance, must provide the Companywith a list of their tools. Employees'damaged or brokentools must be reported to the supervisor and arrangements are made for replacement. The same policy applies to tools lost by fire or theft. However, there may be some delay in the replacement as we must investigate the circumstances.
10:05 The Company agrees that it will furnish on loan, all manda tory safety equipment and personal safety apparel save and except safety boots.
The Company further agrees to sell to employees safety 14
boots at forty-five dollars ($45.00) below invoice price to the Company effective first of the month following date of ratification.
Effective September 1,1993, further increase subsidy to fifty dollars ($50.00) below invoice price to the Company.
The Companywill subsidize all Debarker Operators$12.00 per pairfor Chainsaw safety pants purchased.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the company and the Union or is mandatory under Government legislation.
In addition, the Company will contribute two dollars ($2.00) per pair towards the cost of gloves and mitts. The employee will be required to turn in his damaged or worn out gloves or mitts and surrender the receipt to receive the Company's contribution.
The Companywill provide one pair of quality work gloves as required to the following employees each thirty (30) calendar days. Employeeswill exchange used gloves as requiredthrough the Security Guard.
Butt-Saw Operator Clean-Up Man Framer Infeed Man Labourer
Licensed Grader/Trimmerman Stacker Man Trimmerman Wedge Mill Bundler Lumber Recovery Operator
Chipperman
Slab Recovery Operator
FramerOutfeed Man Greenchain Man Mill Infeed Man #990-712 Sticker Placer Unlicensed Grader Wedge Mill Operator
10:06 With a mill-widecompulsory safety eyeglass policy, the
company, will provide all safety glasses, including industrial
prescription safety glasses.
10:07	The Company agrees to supply on loan, raincoats and oilers
aprons, however, this shall not apply to normalpersonal items, such as shoes, pants, etc.
10:08 The Company agrees to discuss with the Union ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement and also the interpretationof this Agreement. Such meetings or discussionscould be held every month, unless circumstances arise that would necessitate immediate meetings or discussions on matters involved.
10:09 As per the attached Letter of Understanding re Coveralls, the Company agrees to the addition of one (1) pairof coveralls making available five f5Jpair of coveralls to all tradesmen.
10:10 The Company will ensure that adequate temperatures are provided in lunch and washrooms.
10:11 The Company provides first aid arrangementsas required by Provincial laws.
ARTICLE XI- HOURS OF WORK
11:01 (a) The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week Monday to Saturday inclusive. The work week for day or shift workers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
It is agreed that day work or shift work employees may be required to workinexcess of their regularworkday or shiftorworkweek, and will be paid in accordancewith Section 11:05 for such time worked, fan employeerequeststo be excusedfrom working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
11:01 (b) Forthe purpose of this Agreement, Sunday shall begin at 7:00 a.m. on Sunday and end at 7:00 a.m. Monday.
16
A holiday shall begin at 7:00 a.m. the day of the holiday and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following the holiday. An employee's "sixth day (Saturdayor Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. of that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
11:02 (a) The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., meal time excepted. There will be a 1/2 hour unpaid lunch period.
11:02 (b) The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 12:30 a.m., mealtime excepted. There will be a 1/2 hour unpaid lunch period.
11:03 (a) On other two-shift operations, the first shift shall consist of eight (8)consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after. The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shall carry a shift differential of the second shift.
11:03 (b) On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutive hours. The starting and stopping times for the three (3) shifts and the shift differentials to be paid, shall be as follows:
1st shift 2nd shift 3rd shift
Starting Time (between the hours of) 7:00 a.m. - 8:00 a.m. 3:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m. -12:00 a.m.
Stopping Time (between the hours of) 3:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m. -12:00 a.m 7:00 a.m. - 8:00 a.m.
Shift Differential:
1st shift - nil;
2nd shift - 44c per hour;
3rd shift-550 per hour;
11:03 (c)The hours of work and the "sixth day" for day workers and shift workers shall be posted by 3:00 p.m. Thursday of the previous
17
week. However, the Company reserves the right to revise the schedules when necessary up to 12:00 noon Friday previous to work week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
When an agreement for a change of shift by employees is requested, forms for this shift change will be made available by the Supervisor for signature by the employees concerned and their Supervisors.
11:03 (d) If an employee, who has completed his scheduled work week, is required for work on his "sixth day" or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted by the preceding Friday noon. If he is available for the posted overtime work at regular starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control he shall receive four (4) hours pay at time and one-half provided he remain availablefor the four (4) hour period if so requested by the Company.
11:04 (a) A day or shift worker who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be paid for the full day or shift.
To qualify for the above the employee must stay on the job until told by the Foremanthat he may leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered.
11:04 (b) If, during his scheduled work week, a day or shift worker reports for work at his scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, and if no reasonable
18
efforts have been made to notify him not to report, he shall receive four (4) hours pay for reporting, provided he remains available for the four (4) hour period if so requested by the Company.
Notification procedures shall be established locally.
11:05	Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift, all
hours worked on Sunday and all hours worked by an employee on his designated "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) or outside his scheduled shift shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a Sunday. Overtime work required will be distributed on as equal a basis as possible among the employeeswho normally perform the work in the classifications requiring overtime.
For calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
When an employee is called out for overtime work, after completing his shift or when called out on his day off, he shall be guaranteedfour (4) hours pay at time and one-half if he works less than four (4) hours, and eight (8) hours at time and one-half if he is unable to work the full eight (8) hours.
The Company will record overtime worked by each employee for each week and post in a visible location.
11:06 A ten minute "quarter time" on Company time shall be allowed twice each day and night.
ARTICLE XII-SENIORITY
12:01 The Company recognizesthe principle of seniority. Senior-
ity will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency
and ability, in promotions, transfers, layoffs, and recalls after layoffs.
19
As of September 1,1992, the seniority ranking of employees is as set in Schedule “C” attached.
12:02	Employmentof any new employees shall be considered as
probationary until he has completed thirty (30) days of work in one period of employment. Upon completion of this probationary period he shall be classed as a qualified employee with seniority ranking dating back to hisdateof hire. Adischarge, quit or absence without leave, shall break any accumulation of qualifying days.
12:03 In the case of layoff due to a shortage of work the Company will notify the men intended to be laid off at least two (2) work days in advance, unlessthe shortage of work is beyond the Company's control. The Union Grievance Committeewill receive a list of the men affected, prior to the intended layoff.
12:04 When the approximatetime of the recall is known at the time of layoff employees leaving will be informed of such approximate dates atthattime. but inany case, notice inwritingwill besentto an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to reportforwork. Employeeswill be requiredto acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the date specified unless other arrangements have been made in writing.
12:05 An employeewho has establishedseniority and who returns to work in time shall retain his seniority ranking during absences due
io:
(a)	sickness or injury, certified by a licensed physician,dentist, or licensed chiropractor.
(b)	layoff for lack of work notexceedingtwenty-four (24) months.
(c)	leaves-of-absence granted at the employee's request not exceeding six (6) months.
(d)	employmentwiththe Union not exceedingeleven (11) months
(e)	employmentwith the Company outside the bargaining unit not exceeding eleven (11) months.
20
An employee who quits of his own accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or fails to reportto work following recall as provided in Section 12:04 shallautomaticallyloseall seniority. An employeewho fails to return from leave-of-absence on the date specified, shall lose his seniority unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control. All absencesfrom work must be covered by leaves-of-absence the issue of which is discretionary but which will not be withheld unreasonably.
12:06 In transfer of employees from one job classification to another, senior employees with the necessary qualifications shall receivefirst consideration. In such cases an employee shall receivethe rate for the job to which he is transferred. When, due to shortage of work, an employee prefers to transfer to a lower paid job classification the employee shall receive the rate for his new job classification as of the date of transfer. in the case of a temporary change to a lower job classification at the Company's request, the employee shall retain the rate of his previous job classification.
Tradespeople will not be permitted to apply/bid outside their classificationuntil they have worked in the specific trade as a licensedtradesperson for a period of time equal to their apprenticeship. An employee hired on directly as a licensedtradesperson will not be permittedto apply/bid outside his classificationfor a period of one year. In alay off situation, laid off tradespeople will exercise mill seniority,
12:07 (a) The Company, when filling vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordance with Article XII. Notice of impending vacancieswill be posted on the bulletin boards for five (5) working days.
Temporary appointments may be made without posting for filling vacancies of less than two (2) calendar weeks duration. Newly created jobs will be posted on the bulletin boardsbythecompanyforfive (^working days priorto any appointmentsto suchjobs, stating normal job requirements. Employees shall not be considered for such jobs
21
unless they apply in writing within this five (5) day period. The Company shall post notices showing the names of successful applicants for posted vacancies and newly created jobs. A newly created position can,attheCompany'sdiscretion, beconsideredtemporaryfornot more than twelve (12) consecutive months. Should it be decided during this 12 month period to make the position permanent, then the job will be posted as per Article 12:07 (a).
The job will be filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12:01 of this Agreement. Employeesacceptingthe posted jobs shall be allowed (5) work days in which to qualify (or a further time as may be mutually agreed). Failure of an employee to qualify shallentitle himto return to hisformerjob without loss of seniority or benefits.
Employeeswho were absentfor any of the reasonssetforth in 12:07 (b) when the job was posted, and who qualify on the basis of Section 12:01 and the provisionsof this section, shall automatically be listed as an applicanton the job. Immediately upon his return he will be so advised by the Companyand mustsignify forthwith that he is allowing the applicationto stand. Failureto so signify will renderthe application null and void.
12:07 (b) A job that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement leave, jury duty and/or a leave of absence not exceedingthirty (30)workdays, shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall be filled accordingto the provisionsof Section 12:07 (a) and the job posting will note that it is of a temporary nature.
The employee who had occupied the job, upon his return to work shall once again occupy the job that he had filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth above, provided however, that the job is still in effect and is not filled by a senior employee who, for reasons of notice of layoff from his formerjob has exercised his seniority on this particular job.
22
12:08 Lists showing the seniority ranking cf employees will be prepared and posted on Company bulletin boards, available for the information of all employees and will be updated and revised every month. A copy of this listing will be forwarded to the Union at least once a year.
12:09 The management and the operation of the plant, and the direction and the promotion of the working forces is vested exclusively in the management of the company subject only to the seniority Article herein and provided, however, that this will not be used for discrimination against employees.
12:10 When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of new methods and equipment or due to curtailment of operations (excluding normal fluctuations in production levels) affected employees shall be offered alternative employment on remaining jobs in accordance with Article XII, to meet the Company's labour requirement and if such employees require training to perform the alternative employment effectively, they shall be trained by the Company.
ARTICLE XIII- BULLETIN BOARDS
13:01 The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company providing such notices have been approved by the Personnel Supervisor or Manager.
The Company will provide four Union notice boards in the following locations:
-one in each lunch room and one inthe waiting room for Small Log Mill and Processor
ARTICLE XIV- HEALTH AND WELFARE
14:01 WEEKLY INDEMNITY-TheCompanywillmaintalnand pay the premium cost of a Weekly Indemnity insuranceplan. The planwill provide seventy percent(70%) of the employee’s regular
23
straight-time rate up to the U.I.C. maximum, to commence on the first day incase of a non-compensable accident or hospitalization and after three continuous days from the commencement of a disability due to sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks.
14:02 LONG TERM DISABILITY - The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurance policy.
1.	Eligibility -The Long Term DisabilityBenefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated two months seniority with the Company.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage - An eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Plan becomes effective.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active fulltime employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
An eligible employee absent from work due to layoff at the effective date of the Plan shall be entitled to the Long Term Disability Benefit plan benefits upon recall on reporting to work.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning from such layoff todetermine their eligibility under the Plan.
3.	Qualifying Period-An insuredemployeeshall be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Plan Benefit after fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly
24
Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
4.	Definitionof Disability- "Disability" shall mean an insured employeewho has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefitsforthesame disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injury to work at any available occupation in the Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
5.	Amount of Benefit
(a)	The disability benefit shall be 50% of the monthly earnings as defined in 5(b), up to a maximum monthly payment of $1,800.00.
(b)	"Monthly Earnings" means, in the case of a day or shift worker, 173 x his regular hourly rate.
(c)	"Hourly Rate" means the regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime.
(d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reducedby any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any company group disability income plan. Benefits are not affected by War Pensions, Workers' Compensation Disability Pensions, or by any insurance policies he may have purchased himself.
6.	Duration of Benefit.
(a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
(b)	Service for purposes of the plan will be based on the
25
seniority ranking of employees as is set in Schedule “C” attached.
(c)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears.
7.	Termination of Benefits - Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
(a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will beeligiblefor any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b)	On exhaustion the the benefit period, or
(c)	Up to normal retirement age, or
(d)	Ch death.
8.	Exclusion -
(a)	An employee receiving Long Term DisabilityBenefitswill not be eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
(b)	Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan will not be payable for claims resulting from:
(i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
(ii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Worker's Compensation or similar legislation, or
(iii)	Self-destructionor any self-inflicted injury, while sane or
26
insane, or
(iv)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
(v)	Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is undergoinga recognizedcourse of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoingregular rehabilitativetreatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
(vi)	Disability or loss (1) while the employee is on, or could be placed on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave, or (2) if employee fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that the employee could be on if she qualifiedforsuch leave, inaccordancewiththe EmploymentStandardsAct1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation - An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measureswhich have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refusesto undertakesuch rehabilitation^ may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examinations- The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodical physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
Any dispute arising between the Company and/or the 27
insurer's physician and the employee's physician will be resolved by a physician (preferably a specialist) chosen by the Company and the Union.
14:03 GROUP LIFE INSURANCE - The London Life Insurance Company, E.B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd., Group Policy No. 11706 will remain in effect during the life of this Agreement.
The above plan benefitwill be $35,000.00 life insurance with twenty-four (24) hour Accidental Death and Dismemberment(A.D. & D.) coverage for each active employee.
The Company will pay fifty percent (50%) of the premium cost, and the cost to the employee will not exceed twenty cents (200) per one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per month.
It is understood that the 5/12th rebate to employees under U.I.C. will be retained by the Company.
Spouse and Children
Effective first of month following date of ratification, the Companywill provide dependent Life Insuranceon the following basis:
1)	Employee pays 100% of cost
2)	Spouse $5,000.00
3)	Each unmarried child
a)	14 days but less than 1 year of age $400.00
b)	1 year but less than 19 years or 25 years when a student full time, wholly dependent on the employee for support $2,000.00
c)	The spouse’s Life Insurance will be reduced to $500.00 upon the employee’s retirementand cancelled on his death.
28
Paid-Up Life Retirees
The Companywill provides paid-up Life Insurance policy at age 65 of $2,500.00. Companywill pay premium cost of this benefit.
14:04 MEDICAL, SURGICAL, DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS-The Companywill paythe premiumforthe Blue Cross Drug Plan and Semi-Private Hospital Care Plan coverage for all active employees during the term of this Agreement.
The Company contribution to employees who are off work duetoaWorker'sCompensationclaimoraWeekly Indemnityclaim will be continued for a period of up to twenty-four (24) months.
14:05 DENTAL CARE PLAN
1.	Eligibility- Participation^ the Plan is limitedto employees who have accumulated three months of seniority with the Company from date of employment.
2.	Plan Design-
a)	Service and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1. (100%)
b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2. (50%)Maximum$1,000.00 percalendaryear per person.
c)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No.3. (50% co-insurance). The maximum lifetime benefit for orthodontic service covered expenses $1,000.00 per insured family member.
The Plan will provide for the application of the 1991 Schedule of Fees.
29
Effective September 1,1993 amend plan to provide for the
1992	O.D.A. Schedule of Dental Fees.
Effective September 1,1994 amend plan to provide for the
1993	O.D. Schedule of Dental Fees.
It isunderstoodand agreedthatthe Plan will provideforthe continuation of coveragefor the period an employee is off work due to layoff or leave of absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month following the month in which such absence commenced.
3.	Administration - The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the Plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, insurance companies or self-administrationwill be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	Premiums-The premium cost of this Plan shall be paid by the company.
5.	Integration- The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
Ifduring the life of this Agreement Federalor Provincialgov-ernment shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan,the Plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
14:06 VISION CARE PLAN - Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, E.B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd., Group Policy 60526 will remain in effect during the life of this Agreement.
Benefit will be equivalent to Blue Cross Vision Care Plan (Basic) ($80.12 calendar years) for all employees and their dependents.
14:07 BENEFITSAT LAYOFFS-The following benefitsshall be 30
paid to the end of the month following lay off:
a)	Life lnsurance(provided employee pay his/her share of the premium),
b)	Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care Plan,
c)	Dental Care Plan
d)	Vision Care Plan
ARTICLE XV - PENSION PLAN
15:01 FLAT BENEFIT PLAN - The Company will establish and administer a noncontributorypension plan for all hourly-ratedemploy-ees with one year of service or more effective September 1, 1984. Normal retirement will be first day of the month following attainment of age 65. An employee with ten (lO)years of continuous Company service can elect to retire after age 55, however, the monthlypayments will be actuarially reduced. The cost of the plan will be paid by the Company.
Guaranteed Payments- If a retired employee'sdeath occurs before he has receivedsixty (60)monthly payments of retirement income under the plan, his retirement income paymentswill continueto be paid to his beneficiary until the remainder of the sixty (60) monthly payments has been paid from the trust fund.
Surviving Spouse Pension - If a married employee with 10 years of continuousservice with the Company, who qualifies for early retirement after age 55 and before age 65, dies before his retirement date the employee's surviving spouse will receive 60% of the earned pension allowance for the life of the surviving spouse, commencing on the first day of the monthfollowingdate of death. Ifthesurvivingspouse is more than 10 years younger than the deceased employee, the monthly pension would be actuarially reduced.
31
Disability Benefit- An employee with at least 10yearsof continuous service who has attained age 55, has qualified for disability benefits under the CPP/QPP and is totally and permanentlydisabled will be eligible for a monthly disability pension without actuarial reduction.
(i) Effective September 1,1992 the Flat Pension Plan is amended to provide for $20.00 permonthperyearof pensionable service for all years of pensionable service up to September 1, 1992.
(il) Effective Septemberl, 1992 the Flat Benefit Plan is further amendedto provide for $22,00 per month peryearof pensionable service for all yearsof pensionable service after September 1,1992,
15:02 MONEY PURCHASE PLAN ■ Effective January 1,1993, inadditiontothe current Flat Benefit Plan noted above, a mandatory Money PurchasePlanwill beintroducedandwill beapplicable to all employees after one (1) year of service.
This new Money Purchase Planwill becontributed to by both the Company and the employee. The level of monthly contributions will be $45.00 by both the Company and the employee. The administrative costs associated with the Money Purchase Plan are to be paid for by the Company. Any investmentfees will be the responsibility of the employee.
The Company further agrees to establish a joint committee which will meet within one (1) month following ratification and discuss the selection of an administrator for the Money Purchase Plan.
Employeeswho are offwork dueto a Workers' Compensation or a Weekly Indemnity claim can, fora periodof uptotwelve (12) monthscontinueto contribute intothe MoneyPurchase Plan.
32
15:03	SPECIAL RETIREMENTALLOWANCE-Taking intocon-
sideration that the benefit from the Money Purchase Plan for those employees retiring within the next five (5) years will be less than the benefit from those retiring later, the following “Special Retirement Allowance” will be implemented underthe terms and conditions noted below:
This allowance will be made available to those employees retiring at age 65 during the next five (5) yearsand will providethe following benefit:
Retiring at age 65 Retirement Allowance Per Year in Year:	X Years of Pensionable Service
This amount will be paid as a lump sum payment at the date of retirement minusapplicabletaxesortransferred directly to an RRSP as permitted.
ARTICLE XVI - BEREAVEMENT PAY
Whendeathoccurs to an employee’s spouse or children, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of five (5jdays in the eight (8) day period beginning with the day of death. When death occurs to an employee's father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-inlaw, sister-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of three
Accrued upto December31,1992
33
(3) days i n the eight (8) day period beginning with the day of death. The intent of thisclause is to allowtheemployee to attendthe funeral without loss of earnings. Pay will be granted for the regular scheduled work days lost during the period. Any claim for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee in writing along with proof of bereavement intheemployee's immediate family. Iftheemployeedoesnotattendthe funeral, he shall receive (1) days compassionate leave with pay.
An employee must have thirty (30) or more days of service to qualify for payment. The five day funeral leave will be granted over an eight day period for scheduled work days lost beginning with day death occurs.
An employee absent on scheduledvacation will be granted the usual number of days applicable to funeral leave in addition to his vacation at a time mutually convenient to the employee and the Company within sixty (60) days.
ARTICLEXVII-JURY DUTY
17:01 In the case of an employee who is called for jury service, subpoenaedwitness or crown witness,the Companyshall pay,for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay receivedtherefore when making his claim for such allowance.
The employeewill be excused from his shift if he is required to work anytime in the calendar day he is required for jury duty.
ARTICLE XVIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
18:01 The Company agrees to pay regular straight time wages to employeeson temporary leave of absenceforty (40) hours inone period for Union business. The local Union shall be billed for straight time
34
wages paid. The company will make all normal deductions for income tax, C.P.P., etc. A request in writing for a leave of absence for official Union business will be submittedto the Personnel Supervisorat least ten days in advance and the request will be granted subject to availability of employeesto cover the vacancy. Requests in writing received less than ten days in advance will be granted provided the granting of the request will not affect operations. The payment of overtime premium will not be considered as affecting mill operations subject to availability of employees to cover the vacancy.
ARTICLE XIX- SEVERANCE PAY
A permanent employee with at least two years' continuous service who is laid off due to job elimination by Management decision for such causes as more efficient operation, change or elimination of a process,lack of orders, shallbe paidseverancepay if no jobisavailable. Severance pay shall not be paid due to job eliminationfor such causes as fire, flood, explosion or “Act of God”.
Severance pay shall be paid in accordance with the
following:
(a)	Severance pay shall be 2% of an employee’s total earnings for his last full period of service without interruption due to lack of work. Severance pay will not be paid to employees who resign or are discharged. One-half of this severance pay is payable after the employee has been laid off due to job elimination for a period of twelve (12) weeks. The second half of the severance pay is payable after the employee has been laid off a total of six (6) months. It shall be the responsibilityof the employee to make application for such severance pay.
(b)	Ifrecalledtoworkbeforetheseverancepaymentispayable.nosuch paymentwill be made. Any employee refusing a recall shall forfeit his rightto severance pay.
35
(c)	If an employee is recalled after having receivedall of the severance pay due him, he will, as of the day of return, commence a new period of accumulation which will be credited toward any future layoff.
(d)	If an employeeis recalledafterhaving received half of the severance pay due him, he will, upon return to work, retain,the rightto the unpaid portion which will be added to any newaccumulationof severance pay.
ARTICLE XX - APPRENTICESHIP PLAN
20:01 An Ontario Government approved apprenticeship program will be established in the following trades:
Millwright
Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic
Electrician
Sawfiler
Others may be added as required.
The length of the apprenticeshipprogramswill befourwork periods of 2000 hours plus ail mandatory school periods.
The number of employees in the apprenticeship program in each trade will be governed by the future manpower requirements in the trade.
1.	The program will be based on the Ontario Government's Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualification Act.
2.	Applicants must have a minimumof grade 10 educationor equivalent as required for a certified program. They will be required to submit to a series of aptitude tests to determine their suitabilityfor the apprenticeshipprogram. When morethan the required number of applicants pass the aptitude tests the senior employee(s) shall be awarded the apprenticeship.
3.	The tests will be administeredby the Personnel Department
36
and the results will be kept in strict confidence. When an employee is informedthat he has failedthe aptitudetests he shall be given, upon request, the results of the testing indicatingtests passed and failed.
4,	Once a person has been successfully tested for a particular trade he does not have to be tested again. f he is not selected upon his first application he may apply again in the future. If he applies for a differenttrade which requiresadditionaltests he will have to take the additionaltest,
5,	The formal training program will be completed and the certificatesof qualification, both Government and Company, will be issued.
6,	Straight time overtime hours will apply towards the requiredaccumulatedtlme. The Personnel Departmentwlll keep records of accumulated time for each apprentice.
7,	Some of the regulated trades programswill require modification to ensure that apprentices learn tasks required in the Nairn operation.
8,	Apprentices must acquire a complete set of trade tools before 4800 work hours have been accumulated.
9,	There will be a sixty (60) day probationary period for all employees entering the apprenticeship program. During this period, if theemployeedoes not displaythe necessaryaptitudefor the particulartrade he may be returnedto his former job without loss of seniority. The apprentice must be successful at the inschool apprenticeship program in order to continue in the pro gram. Two successive failures at school will constitutea dissolution of any contract between the Company and employee. Similarly the contract will be dissolved of the Advisory Committee recommends the withholding of two successive pay increases,
37
10.	The Company agrees to provide apprentices the difference betweenforty (40) hours at his regular rate and any Government subsidiesavailable while at the in-schoolprogram. All benefitswill continue during the period the apprentice is at school. The Company will provide seventy-five ($75.00) per week for room and board in addition to the Government compensation. The Company will further supply all books or materialson loan to the apprentice in order to complete the required course.
11.	The progressof each apprentice will be recordedand kept on file in the Personnel Department.
12.	Wages will be in accordancewith Schedule " Aattached.
13.	The program will be supervised by the Trades Training Advisory Committee, which will consist of two members of Local 31, two members of Management, and a Chairman. The Chairman's position will be filled by the PersonnelSupervisor.
14.	It is understood that the rate for the second, third or fourth period will not be paid untilthe apprenticecompletesthe mandatory schooling at the end of each period. Ifthe apprenticesschool results are successful, all hours worked between the end of a period, the time an apprentice goes to school, will be paid rates retroactiveto the start of the period.
15.	In a lay off situation, those still on the property due to senioritywill continueinor be recalledto the Apprenticeship Program based on progress (accumulated hours) to date.
38
SCHEDULE“A SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES FOR
TRADES TRAINING PROGRAM
Millwrights
Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanics
Electricians
Sawfilers
Four periods of 2000 hours
Sept. 1/94
$16.69 17,26 17.85 18.39 20.54
Sept. 1/92 Sept. 1/93
1st period	1	- 2000	hours	$15.65	$16.20
2nd period	2001	- 4000	hours	16.19	16.76
3rd period	4001	- 6000	hours	16,74	17,33
4th period	6001	- 8000	hours	17.25	17.85
Completion of Program	19.27	19,94
39
SCHEDULE'S’
E.B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
OCCUPATION CODES, RATES AND DATES
occ
CODE DESCRIPTION
020 LUMBER RECOVERY OPERATOR 040 BIN MAN
060 BUTT SAW OPERATOR 070 CARPENTER - APPRENTICE 1 080 CARPENTER. APPRENTICE 2 090 CARPENTER - APPRENTICE 3 100 CARPENTER • APPRENTICE 4 110 CARPENTER 120 CHERRY PICKER OPERATOR 130 CHIPPER CANTER OPERATOR 140 CHIPPER OPERATOR 150 CHIP TRUCK DRIVER 160 CLEAN-UP PERSON 170 SLAB RECOVERY OPERATOR 180 DRY KILN OPERATOR 210 ELECTRICIAN - APPRENTICE 1 220 ELECTRICIAN - APPRENTICE 2 230 ELECTRICIAN - APPRENTICE 3 240 ELECTRICIAN - APPRENTICE 4 250 ELECTRICIAN - LICENSED 260 FILER-APPRENTICE 1 270 FILER-APPRENTICE 2 280 FILER-APPRENTICE 3 290 FILER-APPRENTICE 4 300 FILER-LICENSED 310 FILER ASSISTANT 320 FITTER
Sept. 01 Sept. 01 1992	1993
16.35	16.92
15.65	16.20
15.85	16.40
15.65	16.20
16.19	16.76
16.74	17.33
17.25	17.85
19.27	19.94
16.25	16.82
17.36	17.97
15.85	16.40
16.64	17.22
15.65	16.20
16.00	16.56
16.56	17.14
15.65	16.20
16.19	16.76
16.74	17.33
17.25	17.85
19.27	19.94
15.65	16.20
16.19	16.76
16.73	17.32
17.25	17.85
19.27	19.94
17.25	17.85
16.74	17.33
Sept. 01 1994
17.43
16.69
16.89
16.69
17.26
17.85
18.39
20.54 17,32 18.51
16.89 17.74
16.69 17.06 17.65
16.69
17.26
17.85
18.39
20.54
16.69
17.26
17.84
18.39
20.54
18.39
17.85
40
330 RE-ENTRY OPERATOR 340 FRAMER INFEED MAN 350 FRAMER OPERATOR 360 FRAMER OUTFEED MAN 370 GENERAL LABOURER 380 GREENCHAIN MAN 390 HOOD SLASHER OPERATOR 400 DESCANNER OPERATOR 410 LICENSEDGRADER/TRIMMERMAN 420 LIFT OPERATOR TRAINEE (1-30 DAYS)
430 LIFT OPERATOR TRAINEE (31-60 DAYS)
440 LIFT OPERATOR - LBR. HDLG. 450 LOG PROCESSOR OPERATOR 470 MARK II OPERATOR 480 MECHANIC-APPRENTICE 1 490 MECHANIC-APPRENTICE 2 500 MECHANIC-APPRENTICE 3 510 MECHANIC-APPRENTICE 4 520 MECHANIC-LICENSED 550 MILLWRIGHT - APPRENTICE 1 560 MILLWRIGHT-APPRENTICE 2 570 MILLWRIGHT-APPRENTICE 3 580 MILLWRIGHT - APPRENTICE 4 590 MILLWRIGHT. LICENSED 610 PLANER MILL INFEED MAN 640 POCLAIN OPERATOR 650 STATIONARY LOADER OPERATOR 660 REMAN OPERATOR 680 STACKER MAN 690 STICKER PLACER 710 TRIMMERMAN - LLM 720 TRUCK DRIVER - S/L 730 DEBARKER OPERATOR 740 TWIN RESAW OPERATOR
16.81
15.65
16.59 15.72
15.65 15.75
16.59 16.52
17.36
15.89
16.07
16.25
17.36 16.82
15.65
16.19
16.74
17.25
19.27
15.65
16.19
16.74
17.25
19.27 16.15
16.59
16.25
16.35 16.00
15.75
16.59
16.25
16.26
17.36
17.40 16.20
17.17 16.27 16.20
16.30
17.17 17.10
17.97
16.45
16.63
16.82
17.97
17.41 16.20
16.76
17.33
17.85
19.94 16.20
16.76
17.33
17.85
19.94 16.72
17.17 16.82 16.92 16.56
16.30
17.17 16.82 16.83
17.97
17.92
16.69
17.69 16.76
16.69
16.79
17.69 17.61
18.51
16.94
17.13
17.32
18.51
17.93
16.69
17.26
17.85
18.39
20.54
16.69
17.26
17.85
18.39
20.54 17.22
17.69
17.32 17.43 17.06
16.79
17.69
17.32
17.33
18.51
41
750 UNLICENSED GRADER	16.00
760 UTILITY OPERATOR	16.44
770 HIGH SPEED STUD OPERATOR	16.59
780 WEDGE MILL BUNDLER	15.76
790 WEDGE MILL OPERATOR	16.03
810 TILT HOIST OPERATOR	15.65
820 STRAPPER OPERATOR	15.65
830 MILLWRIGHT - UNLICENSED	19.27
840 SAWFILER - UNLICENSED	19.27
850 HEEDE CRANE OPERATOR	18.09
860 PACKAGE MAKER/OPERATOR	16.34
870 ASST PROCESSOR OPERATOR	16.59
880 PROCESSOR TRUCK DRIVER	15.65
890 LIFT OPERATOR - LOG HDLG	16.25
910 CREW LEADER-MILLWRIGHT	20.02
920 CREW LEADER - ELECTRICAL	20.02
930 CREW LEADER - PROCESSOR	18.84
940 CREW LEADER-SMALLLOG MILL	17,57
950 CRBA/ LEADER - LARGE LOG MILL	18.11
960 CREW LEADER - PLANER	18.11
970 CREW LEADER - DRY KILN 17.31 980 EAST SCANNER OPERATOR	16.29
990 CREW LEADER. FILING	20.02
16.56
17.02
17.17 16.31 16.59 16.20 16.20
19.94
19.94
18.72 16.91
17.17 16.20 16.82
20.69
20.69 19.47 18.16
18.72
18.72 17.89 16.86
20.69
17.06
17.53
17.69 16.80 17.09
16.69
16.69
20.54
20.54
19.28 17.42
17.69
16.69 17.32
21.29
21.29 20.03 18.68
19.26
19.26 18.40 17.37
21.29
It is agreed that incentives may be applied in conjunction with the above listed hourly rates after discussion and agreement between both parties.
A crew leader will be paid 75d per hour above the highest operation wage rate supervised for all hours worked.
42
SCHEDULED
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
NAIRNCENTRE, ONTARIO
UNION SENIORITY LISTING AS OF SEPTEMBER 01,1992
EMPLOYEE	EMPLOYEE
NUMBER	FULL NAME
1 5 12 13 15 17 20 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
30
31 34 39
42
43
44
45
46
49
50 57 77 86
SENIORITY	EMPLOYEE
DA/MO/YR	HOME PHONE
01/06/63	(705)869-4759
01/06/63	(705)869-1857
06/01/64	(705) 377-5206
07/01/64	(705)869-3580
11/02/67	(705)869-4054
31/05/67	(705)869-4265
02/02/68	(000)000-0000
21/08/68	(705)869-4178
20/09/68	(705) 869-2970
04/11/68	(705)869-2823
10/12/69	(705)869-4095
06/01/70	(705) 844-2656
14/09/70	(705)377-5349
07/10/70	(705)865-2925
18/12/70	(705)869-5986
18/03/71	(705)869-2442
18/01/72	(705)869-2382
15/01/73	(705)869-4943
19/01/73	(705)869-3424
22/01/73	(705)869-3348
07/02/73	(705) 869-2067
19/02/73	(705)869-5397
01/03/73	(705)869-2951
10/04/73	(705)869-2142
10/04/73	(705)869-1186
16/04/73	(705)869-2409
03/05/73	(000)000-0000
18/06/73	(705)869-3404
LOWERY, HARRY AUSTIN, DAVID THIBEAULT, AIME HEBERT, JEAN C BEAUDRY, XAVIER CORMIER, NORMAN E LABRECQUE, JACQUES N LANDRY, GEORGE E BEAUDRY, RONALD W MIRAULT, NOEL J CRICK, CEDRIC A FLETCHER, RANDY C MCALLISTER, JAMES I GERVAIS, RHEAL J MOORES, RALPH AUBERTIN, GERALD MARTEL, GERALD THIBEAULT, RICHARD V HALL, LAWRENCE A NELMES, KENNETH J BADGEROW, OMER P FRABONI, THOMAS A ARNOLD, BRIAN E MARCOUX, HARVEY O COLLIN, ADELARD ST. PIERRE, GERALD J HUNDA, JOHN G PICHE, ROBERT J
43
87	GOLDEN, HAROLD A	19/06/73
88	ALLARD, BERNARD J	19/06/73
91	BARNES, DONALD M	22/06/73
93	GERRARD, MAURICE	29/06/73
97	RICHER, BERNARD A	10/07/73
114	RODRIGUE, BENOIT	31/07/73
115	LEGROW, RICHARD J	08/08/73
125	SIMOND, PHILLIP A	04/09/73
128	FAIRBAIRN, LLOYD L	04/09/73
138	MADIGAN, PERCY S	01/10/73
139	NEWTON, ERIC R	02/10/73
144	DELISLE, ALBERT J	07/01/74
165	CAMPBELL, KEN	25/02/74
159	MASSICOTTE, PAUL	08/03/74
170	GILLSS, DONALD N	18/03/74
174	BEAUDRY, AIME G	02/04/74
191	MCDONALD, DOUG C	24/06/74
198	LIVELY, RONNIE T	11/07/74
205	GOODCHILD, REMMIE W 19/08/74
213	RANGER, HECTOR	16/09/74
219	LEGROW, KEN J	07/04/75
226	BOUILON, MARCEL	07/04/75
229	LARONE, BARRY G	15/04/75
231	BUOTT, FRANCIS	21/04/75
232	DUPUIS, DONALD	21/04/75
234	ENCIL, ALEX L	21/04/75
247	LAPIERRE, REAL	06/05/75
243	BOOMHOWER, CALVIN W 12/05/75
244	THAXTER, FRED L	12/05/75
252	RUTH, WALTER E	12/05/75
258	GIBSON, RONALD A	12/05/75
248	SIMON, JEAN	20/05/75
260	COOLEY, JAMES G	20/05/75
301	THIBODEAU, MAURICE	21/07/75
303	OLINSKY, GEORGE	05/08/75
305	MARTIN, ROBERT J	05/08/75
315	SHAWANDA, GODFREY R 15/08/75
(705) 285-4348 (705) 673-9028 (705) 869-5141 (705) 869-1313 (705) 869-2877 (705)869-4657 (705)869-3160 (705)869-4336 (705)869-4434 (705)869-4104 (705)869-2557 (705)869-3220 (705)869-1616 (705) 865-3257 (705) 869-4375 (705)869-6640 (705)869-4787 (705) 866-2489 (705)869-2292 (705) 866-0622 (705)869-2189 (705) 869-2200 (705)692-3002 (705) 671-3363 (705)000-0000 (705)670-1214 (705) 869-4011 (705)869-4923 (705)869-3709 (705)865-5244 (705) 869-4290 (705)692-5325 (705) 869-1085 (705)869-2659 (705) 869-1239 (705) 869-4581 (705)859-3401
44
314
329
330
332
340
349
355
353
351
358
361
375
378
379
385
388
399
404
406
411
419
420
431
446
448
451
401
461
467
481
225
485
494
496
502
516
521
MANDAMIN, IVANV	18/08/75
MARCOUX, RONALD	02/09/75
GRENIER, EUGENE	02/09/75
GAGNE, JOHN L	02/09/75
NOBLE, WILLIAM A	02/09/75
SOUCY, HENRY	22/09/75
KARVONEN, JOHN	22/10/75
VAREY, ROBERT B	24/10/75
MANAMIN, BASIL A	27/10/75
SOUCY, LOUIS P	03/11/75
ST. MICHEL, KEN J	05/11/75
BEBAMIKAWE, CLIFFORD	C 23/02/76
RECOLLECT, LLOYD P	23/02/76
GREEN, FLOYD H	23/02/76
LAMOTHE, OVILA	01/03/76
LEVERT, JAMES J	08/03/76
JOYCE, ROBERT R	10/03/76
TOTMAN, CHARLES E	15/03/76
MCGREGOR, DONALD	15/03/76
JORDAN, JAMES S	15/03/76
ASSINIWE, NORMAN	15/03/76
LAGRANDEUR, DANIEL F	15/03/76
EADE, RICHARDS	23/03/76
SIMON, EDWARD R	26/04/76
FERRIS, DONALD A	26/04/76
OWL, MERVYN W	26/04/76
ST.GEORGES, MICHEL P	29/04/76
CORBIERE, FRANK W	11/05/76
LAMOTHE, ROBERT L	13/05/76
MCDONALD, ROGER P	07/06/76
LAMOTHE, JEAN P	10/06/76
GAUTHIER, JACQUES	15/06/76
FOX, MICHEAL	21/06/76
VINCENT, PAUL	21/06/76
EDWARDS, STANLEY J	28/06/76
RIVERS, WILFRED N	19/07/76
MASSICOTTE, ROGER	29/07/76
45
(705)859-2365 (705) 000-0000 (705) 865-2437 (705) 869-4617 (705) 869-1074 (705) 869-4915 (705) 869-2769 (705) 368-3039 (705) 859-3097 (705) 368-3347 (705) 869-2084 (705) 859-2386 (705) 000-0000 (705) 869-2451 (705) 869-2415 (000)000-0000 (705) 869-1451 (705) 869-4431 (705) 285-4289 (705) 869-1548 (705) 859-3976 (705) 869-4749 (705) 869-3050 (705) 368-3151 (705) 869-3485 (705) 865-2516 (705) 692-3945 (705) 368-3144 (705) 869-2736 (705) 869-4755 (705) 869-2424 (705) 869-1789 (705) 859-3258 (705) 866-0105 (705) 869-1880 (705) 865-3025 (705) 865-2069
383	DUMONT, CLAUDE J	27/01/77
527	KAISER, KLAUS D	17/02/77
537	RIVET, RAY	21/02/77
559	MASSICOTTE, ALLEN D	21/02/77
562	ELLIS, ROBERTW	21/02/77
574	LEMIEUX, RONALDA	28/02/77
582	LEMIEUX, MICHEL	08/03/77
584	CYR, RONALD	08/03/77
585	BOUCHARD, ARTHUR A	08/03/77
193	TESSIER, NORMAN L	10/03/77
800	LINGENFELTER, WILLIAM R 25/04/77
601	CLOW, ERNESTO	09/05/77
608	LAGRANDEUR, ANDRE	27/06/77
611	DAOUST, ALBENNIE	03/03/77
813	LALONDE, MICHEL	08/08/77
615	DAOUST, MAXIME A	15/08/77
819	ELLIOTT, HOWARD J	18/08/77
621	THIBEAULT, CLAUDE V	24/08/77
823	DELISLE, MAURICE J	29/08/77
625	NEWSTEAD, ROBERTA	06/09/77
828	STRAIN, JAMES M	06/09/77
829	MASSICOTTE, PETER J	12/09/77
640	DOUGON, BRIAN P	13/09/77
850	VOLPEL, MARTIN G	11110/77
651	MCALLISTER, JACK A	11/10/77
681	MACDONALD, ROY W	27/10/77
684	SALO, ROBERT D	02/11/77
688	PLEUNA, LARRY K	07/11/77
879	MARTELL, PHILLIP E	20/02/78
881	BOUCHARD, ERNEST I	23/02/78
885	MULDOON,BRIAN A	10/04/78
895	EVELEGH, BRIAN D	30/05/78
699	VAN ALSTINE, HARRY W	02/06/78
700	VINCENT, JEAN C	05/06/78
709	MINOR, CLAUDE J	29/06/78
731	LAROCQUE, ROLAND	06/11//78
732	JEANVEAU, PATRICK A	10/11/78
46
(705)869-1808
(705)377-4043
(705)368-2246
(705)869-1750
(705)869-1787
(705)889-1595
(705)889-4492
(705)886-2303
(705)869-3858
(705)869-2588
(705)868-0223
(705)889-4721
(705)889-2059
(705)889-1871
(705)889-4098
(705)889-4491
(705)869-2923
(705)889-3704
(705)885-2448
(705)692-5133
(705)889-4273
(705)869-3633
(705)889-2188
(705)892-9186
(705)869-1320
(705)389-4648
(705)889-6185
(705)889-2352
(705)865-2388
(705)889-3038
(705)889-1818
(705)560-3354
(705)869-2007
(705)889-1017
(705)355-9809
(705)355-387!
(705)694-3372
739
744
747
748
728
751
757
759
768
769
770
779
780
781
786
789
790
791
792
793
597
724
802
803
811
812
813
814
816
818
820
821
822
823
826
828
829
SAVARD, PAUL A	25/04/79
VONDETTE, MICHAEL J	23/05/79
CHAMGAIGNE, JERRY	04/06/79
RECOLLECT, RONALD J	06/06/79
TOULOUSE, MELVIN P	11/06/79
MARTEL, DON M	11/06/79
MCIVOR, DAVID A	04/09/79
TOULOUSE, DONALD G	17/09/79
FAIRBAIRN, BRUCE E	15/10/79
KOZACHANKO, MIKE R	15/10/79
JEFFERIES, DALE, E	15/10/79
COURTEMANCHE, DONALD	04/01/80
LELIEVRE, DENIS T	07/01/80
GIGNAC RONALD I	28/01/80
SHANK, ALCIDE A	13/02/80
BENNISON, KEN	20/02/80
GUINDON, TED C	21/02/80
FAIRBURN, DAVID N	25/02/80
BADGEROW, PATRICK E	03/03/80
FOUCAULT, DONALD F	04/03/80
LEESON, RONALD R	09/06/80
CHARETTE, VERNON	16/06/80
FAIRBAIRN, HOWARD W	04/08/80
BOUCHARD, ROBERT H	05/08/80
LAROCQUE, LEON	10/09/80
LALONDE, REAL A	10/09/80
ALSTON, LORNE W	15/09/80
DUCHARME, RICHARD A	15/09/80
JOYCE, GREG	20/10/80
BRIMICOMBE, PAULA	18/11/80
BOULLON, CLAUDE A	02/02/81
VAREY, MARK A	05/02/81
VAREY, MICHAEL C	05/02/81
VALLEE, KEVIN R	05/02/81
ROBINSON, JAMES G	18/02/81
RANCOURT, RAYMOND J	11/05/81
ST. ONGE, GERARD E	19/05/81
47
(705) 694-0000 (705) 869-4779 (705) 682-2961 (705) 859-3559 (705) 865-3484 (705) 869-3270 (705) 368-3108 (705) 865-2984 (705) 869-2843 (705) 869-3786 (705) 869-5511 (705) 869-4480 (705) 869-5916 (705) 869-2572 (705) 866-0368 (705) 692-3102 (705) 524-5063 (705) 869-5989 (705) 869-6174 (705) 869-4697 (705) 869-4099 (705) 865-3323 (705) 869-1399 (705) 865-3085 (705) 855-9812 (705) 869-4032 (705) 368-2057 (705) 869-4026 (705) 869-4385 (705) 869-4091 (705) 868-2150 (705) 368-3890 (705) 368-3667 (705) 869-5029 (000) 000-0000 (705) 869-3798 (705) 983-2328
838
839
842
844
845
848
851
853
854
857
858
861
882
885
888
887
888
870
871
873
874
875
878
877
878
888
896
897
901
902
905
904
907
910
911
914
924
LEBLANC, GAETAN A PAQUETTE, GERALD G GAUTHIER, IVAN J KITLER, DAVID D JEFFERIES, RANDY J BASKIN, JAMES FENSOM, JOSEPH T MOODY, BRADLEY GAGNE, DONALD MOROZ, WILLIAM M LEONARD, ROYF ANTONIO, DAVID R ROBIDOUX, ROBBIE M GAUDREAU, RICHARD F COX PETER
LAJEUNESSE, RONALD R PACITTO, FRANCO CAMPBELL, JAMES H LUOPA, RICHARD J LACASSE, DANIEL P AUSTIN, JOEL D LEBLANC, DENIS A MONTGOMERY, PAUL B FENTON, DANG DILLABOUGH, WILLIAM E LEVERT, FRANCIS M VANALSTINE, KEVIN J CLEMENT, TODD E CATLING, WAYNE E ROY, MARC A DEFORGES, JEAN MICHON, LIONEL P OLDING, VICTOR J GILLESPIE, VICTOR P LAROCQUE, RHEAL L STINSON, GARRY A BOLDUC, GEORGE G
06/07/81	(705)889-4071
15/07/81	(705)580-1378
30/03/83	(705)868-2425
30/03/83	(705)889-5222
30/03/83	(705)892-3200
18/05/83	(705)893-3053
25/05/83	(705)889-4427
76107159	(705)889-3475
06/02/84	(705)889-3019
13/02/84	(705)889-5557
13/02/84	(705)889-1433
14/02/84	(705)889-3682
27/02/84	(705)889-5857
19/03/84	(705)889-4487
20/03/84	(705)889-2812
20/03/84	(705)869-3308
17/04/34	(705)869-4484
17/04/84	(705)389-1118
17/04/84	(705)888-0121
13/04/84	(705)889-1488
18/04/84	(705)369-4291
23/04/84	(705)869-4374
23/04/84	(705)889-2539
23/04/84	(705)368-3688
23/04/34	(705)389-1047
18/06/84	(705)889-3249
20/07/84	(705)889-1155
23/07/34	(705)839-4380
15/10/84	(705)889-1538
22/10/84	(705)889-5349
16/11/84	(705)869-2882
19/11/84	(705)869-1838
20/11/84	(705)865-2348
27/11/84	(705)889-2928
27/11/84	(705)869-4259
15/04/85	(705)889-2678
29/05/85	(000)000-0000
48
947
948
949
982
983
987
988
989
990
992
993
996
998
997
1034
1035
1030
1027
1029
1031
1036
1042
1044
1045
1046
1047
1048
1049
1094
1097
1098
1099
1102
1103
1104
1140
BOLDUC ,JOHNW	03/07/85
KINGSTON,ROY L	20/01/86
MOFFATT, MARLIN C	08/04/86
ODERKIRK, JOHN	08/09/86
DIEBEL, PETER J	08/09/86
PODLATIS, GUENTHER H	08/09/86
LARAMEE, MICHEL	08/09/86
ROY, GASTON	08/09/86
MASSICOTTE, RAYMEND	P 08/09/86
MOFFATT, MATTHEW D	09/09/86
WASYLIW, ALLAN W	24/09/86
SAWYER, KYLE F	10/03/87
HALES, ROBERT J	12/03/87
SCHEEL, ROGER C	16/03/87
DAM, TRINGHIA	03/09/87
CALDWELL, WILLIAM J	03/09/87
MASSICOTTE, DAN	04/09/87
O'BRIEN, SHAWN	08/09/87
HEARN, TIM	08/09/87
SPRY, ALLAN	08/09/87
DELISLE, PAUL	10/09/87
RITCHIE, GERALD O	10/12/87
SWATKO, LEAH A	03/03/88
BORTON, WILLIAM D	03/03/88
BOND, FRED J	05/03/88
RYDALL, STEVEN	07/03/88
TESSIER, TODD N	18/03/88
BEAULIEU, LEONARD	21/03/88
MARTEL, LARRY L	28/10/88
SARKIOJA, MARKUS R	14/11/88
GAMMIE, MURRAY D	14/11/88
PERRON, PAUL J	14/11/88
NADEAU, MARC J	28/11/88
PROCTOR, ROBERT J	28/11/88
GINGRAS, TODD D	28/11/88
PEARSON, GEORGE W	06/09/89
(705) 869-3739 (705) 560-9274 (705) 865-3423 (705) 869-3013 (705) 869-5149 (705) 865-3044 (705) 869-5355 (705) 869-4051 (705) 869-2436 (705) 865-2157 (705) 869-5451 (705) 859-3418 (705) 869-6612 (705) 869-1690 (705) 869-3855 (705) 865-3035 (705) 869-4505 (705) 566-7630 (705) 869-3137 (705) 368-3134 (705) 869-3220 (705) 865-3465 (705) 866-0345 (705) 869-2880 (705) 368-2328 (705) 869-5634 (705) 869-2972 (705) 869-2270 (705) 869-1382 (705) 866-2217 (705) 368-3814 (705) 869-2094 (705) 869-5443 (705) 869-4258 (705) 869-5493 (705) 866-0069
49
SCHEDULE "D"
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
1.	Weekend Maintenance Schedule
2.	Filling Job Postings re Article 12:07.
3.	Layoff & Recall after Layoff.
4.	Floating Holidays.
5.	Coveralls.
6.	Disputed Workers' Compensation Board Claims.
7.	Weekly Indemnity.
8.	Meals.
9.	Electrical Maintenance.
10.	Posted Back-up Positions.
11.	Climatic Controls.
12.	Hours of Work.
50
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
WEEKEND MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE
PermanentVacancies:
1)	When permanent vacancies occur in the regularwork force the maintenance employees working the weekend schedule will be allowed to bid on those vacancies (as per Article 12:07).
Pay Cheques:
2)	Employees working the weekend maintenance schedule will be allowed to pick-up their pay cheques earlier on Thursday, when available.
Vacation, Sickness or Accidents:
3)	Weekend maintenance employees will be used to supplement regular crews for vacations, sickness or accidents only when necessary.
Statutory Holiday Pay:
4)	Weekend maintenance employees required to work on a Statutory Holiday could be paid the following ways:
a)	Receivetime and one-half onlyfortime worked and bankeight hours or one day. It is to be understood that bank time taken must be taken at a time agreeable to both parties and that whole days must be used.
b)	Receive pay for day worked as per Article 7:03.
5)	Weekend maintenanceschedule employee's vacations will be scheduled by weekends.
51
\Afork Schedule:
6)	It is to be understoodthat the hours of work would be as follows:
a)	Friday, 7 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., mealtimeexcepted.
Saturday, 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m., mealtime excepted first 8 hours. Sunday, 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m., mealtimeexcepted first 8 hours.
b)	Saturday, 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m., mealtimeexcepted first 8 hours. Sunday, 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m., mealtimeexcepted first 8 hours. Monday, 7 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., mealtimeexcepted.
It is further understood that the last 4 hours of work on Saturday and Sunday will include a 20 minute paid lunch period.
7)	The Company and the Union accept the principal that the intent of the maintenance seven day schedule is to eliminate outside contractors doing normal maintenance work. The Company will strive to uphold this principal during the life of this agreement.
G.H. Godard
General Manager- Sawmills
A. Encil
President- Canadian Paperworkers’ Union - Local31
J. Wbods
National Representative - Canadian Paperworkers’ Union
52
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTSLTD.
NAIRNCENTRESAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
FILLING JOB POSTINGS RE ARTICLE 12:07
It is agreed that for permanent vacancies, the successful, senior employee of the applicants to fill the vacancy, as per existing clause 12:01, will be given preference to any junior employee provided that:
(a)	He had occupied that job previously and is qualified to meet the job requirements, or
(b)	Shouldtraining be required to meet the job requirement, he will be allowed the necessary time of training, or
(c)	He has qualified to do the job.
(1)	There will be no limitation on upward mobility.
(2)	Lateral or down bids with reference to job postings will be limited to one successful bid per six month period.
When an employee bids down, prior to acceptance of the bid, discus-sionswith the Union maytake place to reflectthe effect on the operation.
Ifthe effect of lateral or down bidding seriously affects the operation of the plant, the Company and the local Union agree to meet immediately and solve the problem.
The local Union committee will be advised of the successful applicant prior to placing the employee on the job.
53
Ajunior qualifiedemployee mayfill a vacancy temporarilywhile another employee is being trained.
G.H. Godard
General Manager - Sawmills
A. Encil
President- Canadian Paperworkers’ Union - Local31
J. Woods
National Representative- Canadian Paperworkers’ Union
54
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNIONS AND ITS LOCAL31
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
LAYOFF& RECALL AFTER LAYOFF
(1)	People retain the right to their last successful bid upon job classification during a layoff situation. This becomes their "regular" classification.
(2)	While awaiting return to their "regular" job classification they may bid, and if successful fill another vacancy, When a position in their "regular" classification comes open, due to recall and their seniority allows it, they will be offered the one time chance to return. If rejected, their new classification becomes their "regular" classification.
(3)	Any jobclassification which requiresan additional employeewill not be posted as a vacancy unless there are no people remainingthat have been displaced from their "regular" classification due to layoff. If there are no people as above, the job classification will then be posted as a permanent vacancy.
(4)	Should an employee leave a job he had successfully bid upon, to return to his “regular” classification, that job will be posted as a vacancy unless people in that classification are also available due to layoff.
G.H GODARD
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
A ENCIL
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL31
J. WOODS
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS
UNION
55
E.B EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: FLOATING HOLIDAYS
inattempt todistribute floating holidays as fairly and as numerousatone time as possible, the following has been agreed to:
On any given day, floaters will be allocated by Company wide seniority but within operational areas. All requests must be on the Personnel Supervisor's desk at least three (3) days previous to the requested floater.
Floaters will be allocated in the operational areas as follows:
	3 Shift Operation	2 Shift Operation
Woodyard, Processor & Small Log Mill	Six in total-one per shift, two off after 4 pm-8 am	Four in total-one per shift, tow off after 4 pm-8 am
Planer	Three in total one per shift	Two in total one per shift
Debarker & Large Log Mill	Two in total one per shift	Two in total one per shift
Chip & Hog Fuel Drivers	One	One
Electricians	One	One
Millwright& Set-Up	Two plant wide	Two plant wide
56
Men	3 Shift Operation	2 Shift Operation
Mechanics	One	One
Filers	One	One
TOTAL	Seventeen	Fourteen
This has been agreed to in the best interest of all personnel involved, however, it in no way is intended to change the existing Labour Agreement.
The cooperation of all employees and supervisory personnel is requested to make this system work.
G. Godard, General Manager- Sawmills
A. Encil, President
Canadian Paperworkers Union - Local 31
J. Woods, National Representative Canadian Paperworkers Union
57
E.B EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER CF UNDERSTANDING RE:
COVERALLS
The Company will supply tradesmen, that is, carpenters, millwrights, mechanics, electricians,filers and utility operators with suitable coveralls as made available by a supply service of Company choice. Fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the laundering will be borne by the employee.
Each employee would have a set of five (5) coveralls for his personal use. He would be issuedacleanpairof coveralls each week upon return of this soiled pair. The Company will pay the full cost of laundering one (1) pair of coveralls.
The individual employee will be responsiblefor loss or damage to the coveralls for normal wear and tear; however, coveralls damaged by unforeseencircumstances beyond his control will be replaced by the Company after inspection.
Insulatedcoveralls will be supplied by the Companywhen required, the cost of laundering will be paid by the Company.
G.H. GODARD
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
A. ENCIL
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION- LOCAL31
J. WOODS
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS
UNION
58
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
DISPUTED W.C.B. CLAIMS
It is understood that when delays in excess of fifteen (15)days occur in Workers' Compensation payments due to a dispute, the Company is prepared to advance an employee two weeks benefits to be repaid when payment is received. It is understoodthat the two weeks payment willbeequivalenttotwoweeksof Weekly Indemnitybenefits. It is further understoodthat every two weeks after the first advance a further two weekadvance will be issued until such time as thedisputeissettledand the compensation payments begin.
If a Workers' Compensation Board claim is denied, repayment to the company will be made when the employee receives payment through Weekly Indemnity.
The fifteen (15) day period will begin from the last day worked.
G.H GODARD
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
A ENCIL
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION- LOCAL31
J. WOODS
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS
UNION
59
E.B EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER QF UNDERSTANDING RE
WEEKLY INDEMNITY
It is understood and agreed that any employee placed under a quaran-tineduetoeithercontact with or sufferingfromacommunicabledisease will be covered by Weekly Indemnity. It is also understood and agreed that any employee who is off work for treatment due to alcohol or drug addiction and it under the care of a licensed physician will be covered under Weekly Indemnity. The normal three day waiting period will apply.
G.H. GODARD
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
A. ENCIL
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERSUNION - LOCAL31
J. WOODS
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
60
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE. ONTARIO LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
MEALS
Arrangements have been made with a restaurantto deliver mealsto the Sawmill. The meals will be in a Styrofoam container and transported in a thermal box.
The Company agrees that, unless notified the previous day, an employee who is required to work a minimum of two (2)hours beyond his regular hours will be provided with a meal at the Company's expense. After the provision of the first meal, under this Section a hot meal will be provided every four (4) hours thereafter at the Company's expense. Employees who agree to work for at least twelve (12) hours in a day (excluding weekend scheduled maintenance crews) will be provided with a meal after eight (8) hours. If an employee continues to work after twelve (12) hours, he will receive a meal every four (4) hours after the first one.
The Company will makearrangementsto have a voucher available for a meal on the same day that it was earned for those employees so requesting.
The Company will provide refrigerators and microwave ovens in the following recognized lunch rooms:
1)	Large Log Mill 4) Electrical Shop 7) Garage
2)	Filing Room 5) Small Log Mill
3)	Planer	6) Processor Area West
Note: Processor Area East lunch room will be in the Small Log area.
J. RAMSAY
HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGER, PULP, FORESTRY, WOOD PRODUCTS
A ENCIL________________________________________
PRESIDENT - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION • LOCAL 31
R. LAMARCHE____________________________________
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
61
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
ELECTRICAL MAINTENANCE
It is the policy of the Company to have no one but electricians perform maintenancework on electrical equipment.
Only trained electrical personnel are permitted to reset inside an electrical panel.
G.H. GODARD
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
A. ENCtL
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION- LOCAL31
J. WOODS
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
62
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRO
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Company agrees, for employees who have accepted agreed-to posted back-up positions, when a permanent vacancy occurs in that position, the senior back-up employee will be promoted to fill the vacancy.
G.H GODARD
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
A. ENCIL
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL31
J. WOODS
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
RE
POSTED BACK-UP POSITIONS
63
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
CLIMATIC CONTROLS
The Company agrees to install "Climatic Controls" in the following vehicles: #814,817,821,832,839 and845 by June 1,1989. Furthermore, the Company agrees that new mobile equipment purchased in the future, where feasible, will be equipped with "climatic control".
G.H. GODARD_____________
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
A FNCII________________________________
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERSUNION - LOCAL31
J. WOODS______________________________
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
64
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL31 NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
HOURS OF WORK
The following is the Company's interpretationof 11:05,3rd paragraph:
An employee called out for overtime work will be paid a minimumof four hours at time and one-half or eight hours at time and one-half for employees working more than four hours.
An employee previously requested to work overtime before the start of his regularday or shift will be paid time and one-half for hours worked prior to the commencement of his regular day or shift.
G.H. GODARD_____________
GENERAL MANAGER - SAWMILLS
A. ENCII_________________________________
PRESIDENT- CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL31
J. WOODS________________________________
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
65
Signed this 12th day of August 1992, in Sudbury, Ontario
FOR THE COMPANY
E.B. Eddy Forest ProductsLtd.
Naim Centre Sawmill Operations
E.C. McManus Vice President cf Forestry & Wood Products
G.H, Godard General Managar,^a«i
£
ItTLar
General Manager Nairn Centre Operations r.-------------------------
GA. Payette Manager of Mill Services
FOR THE UNION
Canadian Paperworkers Union
and its Local 31
f. Woods National Representative
A.	Encil
President- Local 31
B.	Dougan

R. Scheel
J. Ran
Human Resources Manager - Pulp, Forestry
66
SCHEDULE“E
GENERAL INFORMATION
PLAN EFFECTIVE DATE
The benefit described in this booklet are in effect as of September 1, 1992.
ELIGIBILITY
All full-time hourly employees who are members of the Canadian Paperworkers Union and its Local 31 are eligible to participate in this plan.
fyou have dependents you may insure them as well. Your spouse is eligible and your unmarried children (including adopted, foster and stepchildren). Dependent children are insured up to age 21.
Any mentally retarded or physically handicappedchildren may remain insured past the maximum age provided the child is incapable of self-sustainingemploymentand is wholly dependent on you for support and maintenance.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVERAGE
You become eligible for Life Insuranceafter having completed 30 work days of continuousactive full-time employment and Long Term Disability immediately upon becoming insured for Weekly Indemnity benefits.
Your Weekly indemnity coverage, and that of your dependents, is effective after having completed 30 workdays of continuous active fulltime employment. Your Dental coverage, as well as your dependents’ is effective on the date you complete a waiting period of 90 work days or service for full-time employment.
67
Your Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care plans, and that of your dependents, is effective on the first day of the fourth monthfollowingthe date you were employed for fulltime and full pay.
If you are actively insured for personal coverage and later acquire a dependent, you may enroll your dependent in the Health plan by notifying the Personnel Office.
f you are not actively at work on the date your Weekly Indemnity, Medical, Dental or Vision coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on your returnto work for full time and full pay.
f one of your dependents is hospitalizedon the date Medical coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on the day following discharge from the hospital.
HOW TO OBTAIN THE INSURANCE
To obtain the insurancedescribed in this booklet, you should complete and sign all necessary application cards. No medical examination is required for you if you apply for the insurance within the times stated.
IF YOU LEAVE OUR EMPLOY
Your group insurance will terminate if you leave our employ. You have the right to change your Life Insurance to an individual policy as available by the carrier.
LIFE INSURANCE
DEATH BENEFIT
In the event on your death from any cause, your Life Insurance under the Plan will be paid to the beneficiary you have named. f you have named more than one beneficiaryand one of those beneficiariesshould die before you, his or her share of the insurance will be paid to the surviving beneficiaries or if there is none, it will be paid to your estate.
68
The amount of your Life Insurance is$35,000.00. In no event shall your insurance continue beyond your date of retirement.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT BENEFIT
If, as the result of an accident, you suffer any of the losses listed below within 90 days of the accident, payment will be made as indicated. The principal amount of your Accident Death and Dismemberment Insurance is an amount of your Group Life Insurance.
LOSS OF:
-Life.
-Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of both eyes.
-Both hands by severance at or above wrist joints..
-Both feet by severance at or above ankle joints.
-One hand or one foot by severance at or above wrist or ankle joints respectively, togetherwith the total and irrecoverableloss of sight of one eye.
-Loss of one handand onefoot beseverance at or above wrist andankle joints respectively.
One-half of the PrincipalAmount shall be payable for:
-Loss of one hand be severance at or above wrist joint -Loss of one foot by severance at or above ankle joint.
-Total and irrecoverableloss of sight of one eye.
1.	If more than one of the losses specified in the Schedule of Losses and Indemnitiesshown above shall be sustained by the employee as a result of any one accident, payment shall not exceed the Principal Amount of Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance on the employee at the date of such accident.
69
2.	If an employee has suffered prior to the date of becoming insured hereunder,or does thereaftersuffer, the lossof one hand by severance at or above the wristjoint or one foot by severance at or above the ankle joint, or the total and irrecoverable loss of the sight of one eye, the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance on the Schedule of Insuranceprovidedthat the amountof Insurancepayablefor the loss of one hand,one foot, or the sight of one eye shall be one-half the principal amount of the insurance.
3.	The Insurance shall not cover accident, injury, death or other loss which shall result either directly or indirectly, from any one of the following:
(a)	self-destruction or self-inflicted injuries while same or insane;
(b)	committing or attempting to commit an assault or criminal offence;
(c)	riot, civil commotion, insurrection, war or hostilities of any kind, or any act incident thereto;
(d)	bodily or mental infirmity or illness or disease of any kind;
(e)	the inhalation of gas of any kind, voluntarily or otherwise, resulting in poisoning, asphyxiation or any other condition causing death;
(f)	poisoning or infection, other than infections occurring simultaneously with and in consequence of an accidental cut or wound;
(g)	injuries of which there is no visible contusion or wound on the exterior of the body, unlessdrowning or internal injuriesare revealedby autopsy;
(h)	participating in aeronautics other than as permitted under the carriers policy.
70
CONVERSION PRIVILEGE
When your insurance terminates because of termination of your employment, you will have the privilege of converting your Life Insurance, within the next31 days without medical examination, to anew policyon any of the carriers regular plans for an amount not exceeding the amount of your Group Life Insurance.
If you die during the 31 day period in which you might have exercised this conversion privilege,your beneficiarywill be paid the amount of Life Insurance which you would have been entitled to convert.
LONG TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE
DISABILITY
During the first year of income payments your disability must prevent you from performing any and every duty relating to your regular job or engaging inany occupation or performing any work in the sawmill. After that time you will be considered totally disabled if you are unable to engageinanyoccupationor performinanyworkinthesawmillforwhich the carrier considers you to be reasonably qualified by education, training or experience. However, if you are working or engage in any occupation for wage or profit other than rehabilitative employment approvedby the carrier, you will not be consideredto be totally disabled.
BASIC MONTHLY EARNINGS
Your regular monthly earnings on which your benefit will be based will exclude overtime pay, bonuses and other special compensation as at the date you become disabled.
BENEFIT
If you become totally disabled before you are 65 and your disability lasts longerthan 52 weeks of benefits underthe employer's Weekly Indem-
71
nity Plan, you will be paid a monthly income which is payable at the end of each month of disability as long as you are disabled but not beyond age 65 and in no event for more than the number of completed months equal to the employee's service. You must be under treatment by a licensed physician to receive benefits.
The amount of income for which you are eligible will be reduced as follows:
1.	By any payment for loss of time to which you are entitled from Workers' Compensationand Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, excluding any payment in respect of your children.
2.	Furtherreductionswill be made so thattheamount you would receive from the carrier and from any other sources (any other group, association and governmental insurance, sick leave or retirement plan of your employer) does not exceed 85% of your basic monthly earnings.
Generally, your monthlybenefitisconsideredtaxable income. If it is not taxable, the 85% limit would apply to your basic earnings after deductions have been made for income tax and pension plan.
Estimates of disability income from any of these sources will be used until the actual benefits have been established.
IF A DISABILITY RECURS
If you become totally disabled again within six months due to the same or related cause and not receiving any income disability benefits, paymentswill commence again without the necessityof completingthe 52 weeks. Disabilities occurring after the six month period will be treated as if no prior disability had occurred and the 52 week period must be completed again.
GENERAL
The group insurance policy must be in force when your disability commences but payments will continue even if the policy is terminated
72
as long as you remain disabled.
LIMITATIONS
Coverage is made as broad as possible. However, exclusions include self-inflicted injury; disabilities resulting from riot, civil commotion, insurrection, war or hostilities of any kind, or active duty in any armed service during a time of war.
WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
Ifyou aretotally disabled, unable to work, and underthe continuing care of a physician, you will receive a weekly income not exceeding 70% of your weekly earnings. Your benefits will commence on the earlier of:
1.	The fourth day of disability caused by sickness.
2.	The first day of a disability due to an accident.
3.	The first day of hospitalization.
During any one period of disability your benefits will continue until you recover or for a maximum of 52 weeks, whichever is earlier.
EXCEPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS
Disability benefits are not payable for the following:
1.	A disability caused by self-inflicted injuries or illness.
2.	A disability resulting from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country, or participation in a riot.
3.	A disability due to any cause at any time when you are on pregnancy leave of absence or could be placed on such leave by your employer in accordance with the relevant Provincial Statues or that agreed upon by you and your employer.
4.	For any disability for which you are entitled to benefits, under any Workers' Compensation Act.
73
5.	At any time when you are on vacation and receiving full pay.
HEALTH CARE BENEFITS
DRUGCOVERAGE
Your drug plan coverage, and that of your dependents, is effective on the first day of the second monthfollowing the date you were employed for full time and full pay. Drugs, serum, and injectibles purchased on a prescription of a medical doctor, except for vitamins and vitamin preparations (unless injected) and patent or proprietary medicines are eligible for coverage by this drug plan and available by presenting your personal identificationcard supplied by the carrierand a 35® deductible fee per prescription.
HOSPITAL COVERAGE
Your Provincial Health Plan provides ward coverage for in-hospital accommodation. this additionalcoverageallows you, and your dependents, semi-private in-hospital accommodation. This semi-private hospital coverage is effective on the fist day of the fourth month following the date you were employed for full-time and full pay.
DENTAL BENEFIT
On behalf of each covered individual in your family, the Dental Benefit will reimburse you for dental expenses based on the percentages indicated by the carrier. The maximumamount payable per individual for services is $1,000.00.
TREATMENT PLAN
In order for you and your dentist to learn in advance how much the carrier will pay and how much must be paid by you, it is recommended that a Treatment Plan be filed with the carrierwheneverthe total cost of the proposed dental work is expected to exceed $200.00. The
74
Treatment Plan identifies coverage and limitationsfor specific services and clarifies insurance percentages, specific limits and Dental Fee Guide allowance before dentaltreatment commences. The Treatment Plan is not intended to limit you in your choice of dentist, to tell you or your dentist what treatment should be performed or to tell the dentist what fee to charge.
A Treatment Plan is a plan of dental treatment (including x-rays if required)showingthe patient's dental needs, a written description of the proposed treatment necessary in the professional judgement of the dentist, and the cost of the proposed treatment.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
Eligible expenses are those which are recommended as necessary by a physician or dentist that are not in excess of the fee specified for general practitioners in the 1987 Dental or Denturist Fee Guide of the Provinceof Ontario. Feesforspecialistswill be considered if the patient wasreferredbyaphysicianoranotherdentist. There are severaldental procedures which are covered by Provincial Health Plans upto certain maximums. If the dentist or dental surgeon chooses to charge more than that payable by the Provincial Plan, legislation in some provinces does not permit the excess charges to be eligible under this Plan.
Situations may arise where alternate methods of treatment may be available. It is solely for you and your dentist to decide which method will be employed. The carrier reserves the right to use the least expensive method of treatment that would provide a professionally adequate result as the basis for determining their liability.
Only those treatments listed are eligible.
The following treatments are payable at 100%:
EXAMINATIONS:
Initial examination of a new patient
(once every 3 years).....................01110, 01120,01130
75
Re-examinationof a previous patient
(once every 6 months).................................01200
Specific examination..................................01400
Emergency examinationand/or consultation.......01300,94400
............................94100, 94200
CONSULTATIONS:
Treatment planning - per unit of time.................05100
With patient..........................................05200
Another dentist.......................................93100
SPECIFIC DIAGNOSTIC PROCEDURES: Bacteriologic cultures for determination
of pathologic agents...........................................0410)
Dental caries susceptibility test..............................0420I
Biopsy, soft-hard tissue................................04300,04311
Cytological examination..........................................04331
Pulp vitality tests..............................................04400
RADIOGRAPHICEXAMINATIONAND INTERPRETATION(X-RAY):
Intraoral periapical films, complete series...........02100
Intraoral periapical films,
-one to ten films..........................02111,02120 incl.
Occlusal films..............................02131,02134 incl
Posterior bitewing films....................02141,02144 incl
Extraoral films.............................02201,02204 incl
Sinus examination.....................................02304
Sialography............................................0240C
Use of radiopaque dyes to demonstrate lesions..........0243C
Temporomandibular joint films....................02504,0250!
Panoramic film..........................
Cephalometricfilms............................02701,02705 incl.
Interpretation of radiographs from
another source - per unit of time........................0280C
Tomography...............................................0292C
Hand and wrist
(asdiagnosticaid for dental treatment)......................02930
76
PREVENTIVE SERVICES:
Scaling and polishing.......................11100,11200,11300
Topical fluoride treatment..............................12400
Oral hygiene instruction........................ 13200,13210
Occlusal equilibration..................................43310
TREATMENT OF DENTAL CARIES (FILLINGS)
Sedative (palliative) dressing..........................39930
AMALGAM RESTORATIONS:
Primary teeth...............................21101,21105 incl.
Permanent anterior and bicuspid teeth.......21211,21215 incl.
Permanent molar teeth.......................21221,21225 incl.
Pin reinforcement...........................21301,21305 incl.
Silicate restorations...........................22101,22102
Acrylic or composite restorations...........23101,23223 incl.
SURGICAL SERVICES - REMOVAL OF TEETH:
(REMOVALOF ERUPTED TOOTH - UNCOMPLICATED)
Single tooth.....................................71101
Each additional tooth in same surgical site......71111
SURGICAL REMOVALS:
Removalof eruptedtooth (complicated).................72100
Removalof impactedtooth........................72210,72220
72230,72240
REMOVAL OF RESIDUAL ROOTS:
Soft tissue coverage..........
Bone tissue coverage..........
Anaesthesia...................
.............72310
.............72320
.92110, 92120,92201 92202, 92215, 92251 92252,92310,92311 ...... 92330,92340
The following treatments are payable at 50%:
77
PERIODONTAL SERVICES
(DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF GUM TISSUE)
NON-SURGICALSERVICES- PER UNIT OF TIME
Application of displacement dressing.....................41100
Management of acute infections and
other oral lesions.......................................41200
Desensitizationof tooth surface..........................41300
SURGICAL SERVICES:
Gingival curettage...............
Gingivoplasty.....................
Gingivectomy......................
Osseous surgery...................
Osseousgrafts-single, multiplesite.
Soft tissue grafts................
Vestibuloplasty...................
Post surgical treatment - periodontal, per unit d time...................
42001
42002
42003 42100
42103,42104 42200,42300 .....42310
42500
ADJUNCTIVE PERIODONTAL SERVICES; provisional splinting - intra coronal, extra coronal -
per unit of time..............................43200,43210
Periodontal scaling and root planning
per unit of time...........................................43400
Special periodontal appliances (including occlusal guards).43600
ENDODONTICSERVICES:
Pulpcapping..................................31100,31110
Vital pulpotomy..................32201,32202,32210. 32211
Root canal therapy...............33100,33120,33200,33220
....................33300, 33320,33400, 33420
Apexification....................33501,33502,33503,33504
....................33511,33512, 33513,33514
Periapical Services..............34101,34102,34103,34104
.................... 34111,34112, 34114, 34115
Root amputation - amputation
at one root - two roots......................34401,34402
78
OTHER ENDODONTIC PROCEDURES:
(PREPARATIONOF TOOTH FOR TREATMENT)
Gingival curettage...................................39100
Alveolectomy.........................................39110
Banding of tooth to maintain sterile
operating field......................................39120
Hemisection......................39210,39220,39230,39300
Chemical bleaching only
per unit of time.....................................39400
Intentional removal, apical filling
and reimplantation.............
Emergency procedures...........
.39501,39502,39503,39600 39901,39902, 39903, 39904 39910, 39940, 39960, 39970 ............ 39980, 39985
SURGICAL SERVICES:
Surgical exposure of tooth.........72410,72411,72412
Transplantation of a tooth............................. 72430
Surgical repositioning of a tooth.......................72440
Enucleation of an unerupted tooth
and follicle............................................72450
Alveoplasty -per unit of time..... 73133,73134,73135
Gingivoplastyand/or stomatoplasty................ 73119,73120
Osteoplasty- per unit of time........... 73133, 73134, 73135
.................................. 73140,	73141
Surgical excision.....................74108,74109,74408,7440G
Surgical incision.................................75100,75110
Fractures.......................76198,76210,76250,7631C
.......................76350,76910,76950,	76951
Frenectomy................................ 77800,77810, 7811C
Miscellaneous surgical services.79104,79301,79302,79303
..................... 79304, 79305, 79306, 79307
........................79308,39401,79601,79602
.................................. 79603,	79604
Adjunctive general services -
drugs (injections).....................................96100,	96101
79
PROSTHETIC SERVICES: Complete maxillary denture
(once every 3 years)..........
Complete mandibular denture
(once every 3 years)..........
Complete maxillary and mandibular dentures (once every 3 years).
Removable partial dentures
Denture adjustments Denture repairs....
Denturerebasing, relining
51100
51110
.51120,51300,51310,51320
..... 51600,51610,51620
52120,52121,52220,52221 52230,52231,52320, 52321 52400, 52410, 52500, 52510 52520, 52525, 52530, 52531 52535, 52600, 52610,52630
.................. 52800
.54250,54300,54301,54302 55101,55102,55103, 55104 55201,55202,55203,55204
..... 55520, 55530, 55700
.56200,56201,56210,56211 56260, 56261,56262, 56263 56270, 56271,56272, 56273
The following treatments are payable at 50%:
ORTHODONTIC SERVICES:
PRE-TREATMENT DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES:
Diagnostic Models, X-Rays..............4530,2701,2702
...........................2703, 2704, 2705
Cephalometricwork-up.............................2750
PREVENTIVE & INTERCEPTIVEORTHODONTICS:
Habit Inhibiting,.............82101,82102,82201,82202
Space regaining.....................81105,81106,81201
80
Space Maintenance.......
Cross Bite Correction, etc
CORRECTIVE ORTHODONTICS: Removables Fixed Appliance Therapy.
Retention
.... 81202,81251,81252
15100,15110, 15120,15400
.....81261,81203,81204
.......... 81205,81206
.....81115,81116,81120
.... 81125,81126,81130
.... 81131,81140,81207
.... 81208,81209,81210
....81211,81212,81213
.................83214
.................83112
VISION CARE BENEFIT
If, while insured, you incur Vision Care expenses for yourself or for a covered dependent you will be paid benefitsin an amount equalto such Vision Care services, subject to the following provisions.
The following services when prescribed by a licensed physician or licensedoptometristshall be covered, but not to exceed $75.00, in any 24 month period.
1.	Lenses and framesfor eyeglasses, sunglassesand safety glasses.
2.	Contact lenses.
3.	Services and materials in connection with vision training and orthopics.
4.	Services and materials in connection with medical or surgical treatment.
5.	Replacement of lost, stolen or broken eyeglass lenses or eyeglass frames.
No benefits are payable for amounts charged for any of the following services:
81
1.	Services rendered before the insurance on account of the person who receives such services became effective.
2.	Services receivedbecauseof any injuryarisingout of or inthecourse of any employment for wage or profit or sickness entitling the covered personto benefitsunder any Workers' Compensation or Occupational Disease Law.
3.	Services for examinations for the purpose of prescribingor fitting of eyeglasses, sunglasses or safety glasses.
4.	Services to the extent that such servicesor benefitsfor such services are available under any plan or program established pursuant to the laws or regulationsor any Government and any services to the extent that any Government prohibitspayment of insurancebenefitstherefore.
5.	Services to the extent that they or benefits therefore are provided under any other group insuranceplan or prepayment plan or for which benefits are otherwise provided under the group policy.
6.	Services for which the person receiving them is notrequiredto make payment, or where payment is received as a result of legal action or settlement.
IF YOU LEAVE OUR EMPLOY
Your Vision Care Benefit will cease 31 days after leaving our employ if you have receivedVision Care services as specified, as a direct result of a complete eye examination.
82