BETWEEN:
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD
Grande Prairie Operations
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 446
Effective March 1, 1998 to
February 28, 2001
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Grande Prairie Operations
0
I
AGREEMENT ARTICLE 1 -GENERAL
Section 1 «Purpose Section 2 ■ Mutual Responsibilities Section 3 - Pav for Voluntary Meetings Section 4 - Harassment Definitionof Harassment ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS Section 1 «Employee Section 2 • Employment Categories Section 3 -Grievance Section 4 -Gender Reference ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT Section I-Direction of Work Section 2 • Employee Selection and Discipline ARTICLE 4- BARGAINING AGENCY Section 1 • Recognition ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY Section 1 • Cooperation Section 2« Union Shoo
Section 3 • Discharge of Non-Members/Constltutionah Section 4 - Application for Membership Section 5 - Check-off Section 6 - Dues Payment ARTICLE 6 - CASUAL EMPLOYEES Section 1 ■ Casual Employees' Work Section 2 • Hours of Work Section 3 ■ Benefits Section 4 • Consideralion for Hiring
l
1
2
2
2
3
3
3
4
4
4
5
5
5
5
6
6
6
6
6
7
7
7
7
8
8
8
2
ARTICLE 7- WAGES
Section 1 • Wage Scale
Section 2 • Wage Rate Determination
Section 3 - Rate Protection
Section 4 ■ Pav Days
Section 5 -Premium Rates
Section 6 - Notice of Cancellation
Section 7 • Cali Time
Section 8 -Casual Employee Rates
Section 9 -Welders
Section 10 ■ LumberGraders and I oq Scalers ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK
section 1 -Production Employees
Section 2 - Millwrights. Maintenance.
Repair and Construction Employees andWatchmen
Section 3 -Casual Employees Section 4 -DoubleStraight-Time Rates Section 5 • Completion of Shifts Section 6 - Designation of Shifts Section 7 • Three-Shin Operation Section 8 - Lunch & Rest Periods Section 9 - Notification of Absence Section 10 - Meals
Section	-Advance Notification of Return to Work
ARTICLE 9 -ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULES ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY Section 1 • Probation Period Section 2 • Principle Section 3 - Application Section 4 - Departments Section 5 -Reduction of Forces Section 6 - Recall
9
9
9
9
10
10
n
ii
12
12
12
13
13
13
14
14
14
14
16
16
16
17
17
17
17
17
18
18
18
19
19
Section 7 -Retention or Seniority Section8 • Seniority Lists Section 9 ■ Transferto Staff ARTICLE 11 • JOB POSTING AND TRAINING ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE Section 1 • GeneralPrinclPles Section 2 . tniurv or illness Section3 -Union Business Section4 • Bereavement Leave Section 5 - Jury Duty Sections • Maternity Leave Section 7 « Paternity Leave Section 8 • PublicOffice Section 9 -Extended Vacations Section 10»Other
ARTICLE 13 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
ARTICLE 14 - PERSONAL AND FLOATING HOLIDAYS
Section 1 - Floating Holiday Section 2 ■ Floating Holiday Entitlement ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONSWITH PAY Section 1 » One to Two Years Service Section 2 - Two Yeans Service Section 3 ■ Seven Years' Service Section 4 - Fifteen Years' Service Section 5 • Twentv«Four Years' Service Section 6 ■ Thirty Years' Service Section 7 ■ Vacation Scheduling Section 8 • Time includedfor Vacation Entitlement ARTICLE 16 - SAFETYAND OCCUPATIONALHEALTH Section 1 • Principles
Section2 -Joint Healths Safety Committee
20
20
20
21
24
24
25
25
26
26
26
26
27
27
27
28
29
29
29
30
30
30
31
31
31
31
32
32
33
33
33
Section3 - Compensation Section4- Fatal Accident ARTICLE 17 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE Section 1 - Committee Section2 • Procedure Section3 -Abandonment ARTICLE 18 -ARBITRATION Section 1 • Principles Section2 ■ Expenses Section 3 • Location
ARTICLE 19 - HEALTH AND WELFARE ARTICLE 20 -LONG TERM DISABILITY ARTICLE 21 -DENTAL PLAN
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE FAMILY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY EQUIPMENT
ARTICLE 24 -PENSION PLAN
ARTICLE 25 - APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT
Section 1 - Wage ratesfor Apprentices
Section2 - Expenses
Section3 ■ Selection of Apprentices
Section4 - SuccessfulApplicants
Section5 ■ Right to Continue
Sections - Tests
Section 7 • Tools
ARTICLE26- TOOLINSURANCE ARTICLE 27- CONTRACTING OUT ARTICLE 28 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1 - Letters of Understandina & Supplements
Section 2 -Coveralls
Section 3« Medical Examinations
Section4 - Bulletin Boards
34
34
34
34
34
35
35
35
36
36
37
38
39
39
40
41
41
42
42
43
43
43
43
43
44
44
45
45
45
45
45
5
Section 5 - Alternate Employment
Section 6 - Disability Management Committee ARTICLE 29 ■ PERMANENT PLANT CLOSURE ARTICLE 30- TECHNOLOGICALCHANGE Section 1 -Advance Notification Section2 -Severance Pay Section 3 - Rate Adjustment
ARTICLE 31 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT 0. S'! SUPPLEMENTS	"
WAGE SCHEDULE Mar 1/98
LumberYard Cleanup
Mar 1/98 Mar 1/98 SUPPLEMENTS ARTICLE 24 ■ PENSION PLAN SUPPLEMENTS
SAWMILL AND PLANER UTILITYPOSITIONS
1.	SAWMILL UTILITY
2.	PLANER UTILITY
3.	GENERAL NOTES SUPPLEMENTS
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK SCHEDULE- MAINTENANCE
1.	PREAMBLE
2.	HOURS OF WORK
3.	OVERTIME
4.	OVERTIMEMEALS
5.	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
6.	LUNCH PERIODS
7.	REST PERIODS
8.	STATUTORYHOLIDAYS
6
9.	VACATIONS WITH PAY
10.	HEALTH AND WELFARE, MEDICAL, DENTAL, ETC.
11.	PENSION PLAN, LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
12.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE, BEREAVEMENT LEAVE,
JURY DUTY
13.	SCHEDULING LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING SEASONAL JOB POSTING POLICY INDEX
63
63
64
64
64
66
66
68
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT dated the 1st dayof March, A.D. 1998. BETWEEN:
CANADIAN FORESTPRODUCTS LTD,
Grande PrairieOperatlons (hereinafterknown as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS
UNION, LOCAL 446 Grande Prairie, Alberta (hereinafter known as the "Union")
OFTHE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL
Section 1 - Purpose
The general purpose of this Agreement is, in the mutual interest of the employer and the employee, to provide for the operation of the Plant (or Plants) hereinafter mentioned under methods which will further, to the fullest extent possible,the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output, cleanliness of Plant and protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement lo be the duty of the Company and the Unionto cooperate fully for the advancement of said conditions.
2
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL (cont’d)
Section 2 - Mutual Responsibilities
It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company to explain fully the terms of this Agreement to all its officers, foremen, and others engaged in a supervisory capacity and it is recognized to be the duty of the Union to explain fully to its members their responsibilities and obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3 - Pay for Voluntary Meetings
If the company calls a meeting to be attended by employees on a voluntary basis outside of their normal scheduled hours of work, employees will be reimbursed at their regularstraight time hourly rate for any time spent at the meeting. The meetingsthat will be paid are as follows: EFAP Committee, Donations Committee, EmployeeSurvey Committee,Safety Committee and Safety Subcommitteemeetings. This list can be changed by mutual agreement of the company and the union.
Whenever possible, meetingswill be scheduled during normal working hours.
Section 4 - Harassment
The Company will maintain a harassment free environment. All harassment complaints will be handled as confidentiallyas possible.
Definition ofHarassment
Harassment is defined as unwanted behavior of a personal, sexual or racial nature that is directed at and is offensive to an individual.
3
ARTICLE 2- DEFINITIONS
Wherever used in this Agreement, includingexhibits:
Section 1 - Employee
The word "employee" means any person on the payroll of the Company at the location (or locations) named in this Agreement excepting: office, credit and secretarial staff, sales staff, security guards, employees engaged in logging operations in Grande Prairie and those persons performing managerial or industrial relationsfundions as defined by the Alberta Labour RelationsAd.
Section 2 ■ Employment Categories
a.	"Casual" employeesare students, 17 years or older, in full-time attendance at a school, college. university, etc., hired for the purposeof weekend cleanup.
b.	"Probationary" employees are employees who have not completed thirty (30) workirlg days within ninety (90) calendar days following the date of entering employment.
c.	"Regular" employeesare employeeswho havecompletedtheirthirty (30)-day probationary period.
d. A "Chargehand"is a Union memberwho, under the direction of Management, has been assigned the duties of relaying instructions, advising Management of the progress of the work and assisting Management and crews in the common effortof maintaining the highest standards of safety, quality and quantity of production.
A chargehand does not have the authority to hire, discipline or discharge another Union member.
Any employee assigned to the position of chargehand will be limited to no more than sixty (60) consecutive calendar days as a chargehand, at which time they must return to their bid job for a minimum period of thirty (30) consecutivecalendar days before being reinstated as a chargehand. For the purposeof this agreement any partialday will be counted as a full day.
A
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS(COnt’d)
If the days assigned as chargehand are not consecutive days, the employee will not accumulate more than sixty (60) days in a ninety (90)day period.
Any special circumstances to extend this period must be mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
Section 3 - Grievance
"Grievance", "dispute", or "complaint" means any difference between the persons bound by this Agreement concerning its interpretation, application, operation, or any alleged violation thereof, and "Party" means either one of the parties to this Agreement.
Section 4 - Gender Reference
It is understood that references to masculine gender shall be interchangeable with feminine gender throughout this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
Section I- Direction of Work
The management of the operation and direction and promotion of the employees is vested exclusively in the management, provided, however, that this will not be used for the purposeof discrimination against employees.
Employeesoutsidethe bargainingunit will not perform work that is normally done by employees in the bargainingunit. However, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting supervisors from doing work for purposes of instruction, provided in so doing a lay-off of bargaining unit employees does not result, or in the case of an emergency when regular employees are not available, provided that every reasonable effort is made to find a replacement.
5
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT(cont’d)
Section 2 ■ Employee Selection and Discipline
The company shall have the right to select its employees and discipline or
discharge them for just cause.
a.	An employee shall be advised by the Company that he has the right to have a Union Shop Steward or Executive Officer present before the Company disciplineshim. In the case of discipline involvingsuspension or discharge, a Union Shop Steward or ExecutiveOfficer must be present.
b.	The company shall havetherightto maintain a copy of warnings in thefile of each employee PROVIDED HOWEVER that once an employee has gone a period of twelve (12) months without accumulating a further warning, the previous warnings will be removed from the employee's file and destroyed by the company.
c.	Employeesshall havethe right to reviewtheir personnelfiles and request photocopiesof material contained therein. Arrangementsto view files are to be made through the Personnel Office.
ARTICLE 4 - BARGAINING AGENCY
Section 1 - Recognition
The company recognizesthe Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada and the Union as the only agency representing all employees as defined in this Agreement for the purpose of collective bargaining.
6
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY
Section 1 - Cooperation
The Company will cooperate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present to new employees and to all supervisors and foremen the policy herein expressed.
Section 2 ■ Union Shop
Any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall as a condition of continued employment, maintain membership in good standing in the Union throughout the term of this Agreement and without limiting the foregoing, all employees hired during the term cf this Agreement shall, as a condition tf employment, become a member cf the Union thirty (30) calendar days after becoming employed by the company.
Section 3 - Discharge of Non-Members (Constitutional)
Any employee who fails to maintain membership in good standing in the Union shall be discharged after seven (7) days' written notice to the Company by the Union of the employee's failure to maintain membership in good standing.
Section 4 • Application for Membership
No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his application for membership or reinstatement,except as may be provided for in the Constitution and By-Laws of the National Union and Local Union. A copy of such Constitution and By-Laws and any changes thereto, shall be transmittedto the Company.
7
ARTICLES - UNION SECURITY (cont'd)
Section S - Check-off
The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to execute an assignment of wages in duplicate,the forms to be supplied by the Union. All the check-off forms are to be foiwarded to the Local Union within fifteen (15) days of hiring.
Section 6 - Dues Payment
This assignment in the case of the employees already members of the Union shall be effective immediately, and for those employees not previously members of the Union, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution. The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked in writing by the employee) to the Union named therein not less than once each month with a written statement of the names of employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
ARTICLE 6 - CASUAL EMPLOYEES
Section 1 - Casual Employees' Work
Casual employeesshall only be permittedto do the followingwork
i.	Cleanup
MillAreas	- GeneralCleanup
Yard	- GeneralCleanupincluding piling spilled loads
Shop	- GeneralCleanupof vehicles, includingsteamcleaning
and cleanup of shops
ii.	Maintenance
Helpers
Sparkwatch
8
ARTICLE 6 - CASUAL EMPLOYEES (cont’d)
Casual Employees are not eligible to become regular employees or perform the duties of regular employees unless they terminate the casual workforce and are re-hired into the permanentworkforce.
Section 2 - Hnnrcof Work
Casual employees will not be guaranteed any number of hours per week. Hours of work available to casual employees will be allocated on the basis of seniority within the casual group.
a.	Casual employees will be responsible for knowing what work is available to them on a weekly basis. This can be confirmed by phoning our office or discussingfuture work availabilitywith the cleanup supervisor.
b.	I n the event of a change in conditions or following a curtailment period, the Company will make every effort to contact all casual employees.
Section 3 - Banftfita
Casual employees are not entitled to benefits except as follows:
a.	Vacation pay calculated at four percent (4%) of gross earnings.
b.	Coveralls will be supplied, at Company expense, to all casual employees with the understanding that:
-	The coveralls will be the sole responsibility of the employee, includingperiodic cleaning.
-	If the employee is not with the company for a period of six (6) months or more, the coveralls must be returned in good condition. If this is not done, the employee will be chargedfor the coveralls (based on a six-month depreciation of the coverall),
-	New coverallswill be issued to casual employees as required, but replacement will not be made for lost or stolen coveralls.
9
ARTICLE 6 - CASUAL EMPLOYEES<cont’d)
Section 4 - Considoratlon for Hiring
It is agreed between the parties that Casual Employees, upon termination of their position as Casual, who desire employment in a regular position will inform the company of their desire and will be given first considerationfor hiring to a regular position. This consideration does not constitute a guarantee for hiring and is contingent on the employee having satisfied the basic criteria used in hiring all new RegularEmployees.
ARTICLE 7 -WAGES
Section 1 • Waoe Scale
a.	The wage scale for the term of this Agreement shall be as set forth in Supplement No. 1 of Ihis Agreement.
b.	Effective March 1, 1998, the wages of all hourly rated employees will be increased by one percent (1 %)per hour.
c Effective March 1, 1999, the wages of all hourly rated employees will be increased by afurthertwo percent (2%) per hour.
d.	Effective March 1, 2000, the wages of all hourly rated employees will be increased by a further two percent (2%) per hour.
Section 2 - Wage Rate Determination
The company reservesthe right to establish or revisejob classifications as well as the new hourly rate for the job classificationso established or revised during the life of this Agreement. The Company agrees to notify the Union upon the establishment of such job classification and wage rate and the Union shall have thirty (30)days after such notificationwithin which to request that the rate so establishedbe made the subject of collectivebargaining. In the event no request is received by the Company within such period, the rate shall be deemed acceptable and shall become part of this Agreement. In the event that the rate is made the subject of collectivebargaining, the Company and the Union shall meet as soon as may be convenient to commence bargaining regarding the new rate.
10
ARTICLE 7 - WAGES (cont’d)
Section 3 -Rate Protection
a.	Employees who are directed by the Company to work on a higher paid job, if their regularjob is available, will receive the rate for the higher paid job.
b.	Employeeswho are directed by the Company to work on a lower paid job, if their regularjob is available, will be paid their regularjob rate.
Section 4 - Pay Days
The Company shall provide for pay days every second week, and each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions. Whenever possible, employees shall receive their pay cheques and statements in sealed envelopes.
Section5 ■ Premium Rates
a.	The first shift, which may vary in individualoperations, is the recognized day shift Hours worked outside the recognized day shift will be regarded as the second and third shifts. Premium rate of thirty-one cents ($.31) per hour will be paid for the second and third shifts. Day shift employees working in excess of eight (8) hours will be paid rate and one-half without the differential. Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the applicable per hour premium rate as specified in this Section for all hours worked outside the recognizedday shift.
b.	i. All certifiedlumber graders shall receive the premiumsset out below in
additionto their hourly rate:
3-yearticket	$.35 per hour
1-yearticket	$.20 per hour
providedthat these premium rates shall be paid only when actually engagedas lumber graders.
ii. Any employee holding a three-year or one-year ticket shall receivea premiumof$.10 perhourfor all hoursworked. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
11
ARTICLE 7 —WAG E S (cont'd)
o. ItisagreedthataTradesmansmployed by the Company who holds more than one trade ticket and, as part of his regular job required by the Company, applies the knowledge of his ticketed trades as part of his regular duties, will be paid an additional Thirty (30) cents per hour above his regularjob rate.
d.	It is further agreed that a Tradesman employed by the Company who holds more than two tickets and, as part of his regularjob as required by the Company, applies the knowledge of his ticketed trades as part of his regular duties, will be paid the highest trade rate as designated in the wage supplement for the trade tickets plus an additional forty (40) cents per hour.
e.	Shift differentialand graders' premiumswill be paid on Statutory holidays, Personal Floatersand Floating Holidays.
Section 6 - Notice of Cancellation
a.	If employees present themselves for work and, due to any conditions beyond their control there is no work available, they shall receivetwo (2) hours pay unless sufficient warning has been given cancelling the work call for the day.
It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given cancelling the work call for the first or day shift provided notice has been given over radio stations CFGP and CJXX not later than one and one-half (1 112) hours before the shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a halfhour period.
It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given cancelling the work call for afternoon shift when notice has been given over the radio stations CFGP and CJXX not laterthan one and one-half (1 1/2) hours before the shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour period.
It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given cancelling the work call for the graveyard shift when notice has been given over the radio stations CFGP and CJXX not later than one and one-half (1 1/2) hours before the shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a halfhour period.
12
ARTICLE 7 -WAGES(Cont’d)
b.	When an employee is calledfor work and starts work, he shall receivefour (4) hours pay at his regular rate unless his work is suspended because of inclement weather or other reasons completely beyond the control of the Company. If work is suspendedfor reasons completely beyondthe control of the Company, the employee will be paidfor time actually worked.
Section 7 ■ Call Time
a.	Any employee called to work on his designated day off, on Sunday, on a Statutory holiday, or after having left the plant after working his regular shift, will be paid a minimum of three (3)hours at rate and one-half (1 112).
b,	If he is then required to perform any other work than which necessitated the call-in, he will be paid at rate and one-half (1 1/2) for all time worked.
Section 8 - Casual Employee Rates
All oasual'employees will be paid at seventy-fivepercent (75%) of base rate. EffectiveMarch 1, 2000, all casual employees will be paid at eighty percent (80%) of base rate.
Section 9 - Welders
Employees employed as welders and who are required by the Company to renew or upgrade their welding qualifications shall be granted up to five (5)days paid leave of absence to attend school for instruction. The Company shall pay the cost of instruction and examination.
Section 10 - Lumber Graders and Loa Scalers
Employees of the Company who, by mutual agreement, train or retrainfor lumber grading and log scaling certificateswill be compensated in the following manner:
13
ARTICLE 7 -WAGES (cont'd)
a. The Company will pay the cost of materials required to those employees who • take the courses.
b.	The Company will pay lost time wages to employeeswho take the courses.
c.	Employees who train or re-Irain for lumber grading will be selected on the following basis:
1.	Current graders whose certificate or permit is expiringwill take priority.
2.	Remaining employees will be selected by seniority within their department, but in selecting those employees, considerationwill be given to avoiding depletion of crews in any one department which will impair production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the unionwill cooperate with the company.
ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK
Section I - ProductionEmplovees
a.	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive. Rate and one-half shall be paid for any hours worked over eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.
b.	The Parties to this Agreement agree that the Company has the right to operata its plant or plants or any part thereof on a continuous seven-day schedule.
c.	All work performed on Sunday except for work performed by casual employees shall be paid at rate and one-half provided the regular employee hasworked at least one shift inthe preceding week.
14
ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK (cont'd)
Section 2 - Mill1 rli t Maintenance. Repair and Construction Employees am V :
a.	The regularhoursofwork shall be eight (8) hours per day, with two (2) days of rest each week, Monday through Sunday. Such days of rest will be consecutive days, unless mutually agreed to be otherwise, between the employee and the Company.
b.	Overtime shall be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, on Sunday if worked, and on the employee's two designateddays of rest if worked.
Section 3 - Casual Employees
Casual employees will be paid straight time for Saturday and Sunday if worked.
Section 4 -DoubleStraight-Time Rates
Notwithstanding the foregoing, double straight-time rates will be paidfor:
a.	All hoursworked in excess of eleven (11)perday.
b.	All hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5)shifts during the precedingsix (6) days.
c.	For the purpose of (b) herein, a Statutory Holiday will be considered a shift worked.
d.	Item (b) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
15
ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK ($ont’d)
Section S - Completion of Shift?
It is agreed between the parties that if one (1) hour or less is necessary after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding a Statutory Holiday in order to complete the shift which commenced on Friday afternoon or the afternoon precedingthe Statutory Holiday, the time worked after midnight to complete the shift would be paid at straight time.
Section 6 ■ Designation of Shifts
a.	The first shift, which may vary from time to time as determined by the Company, shall be designated the Day Shift. The second shift, following the Day Shift, shall be designated the Afternoon Shift. The third shift, following the Afternoon Shift, shall be designatedthe Graveyard Shift. Shifts shall be rotated on a basis mutually agreeable to the Company and the Union.
b.	It isagreed betvueenthe parties that produdionand labour positionson a nonrotating graveyard shift will be recognized as unique from the same position on a rotating shift.
Under the terms <f this agreement, job postings will specify whether the position isfor graveyard or rotatingshift.
c.	The Company shall post notices in the plant stating details of starting and ending time of shifts, and shall give no lessthan one full working day's notice of changes thereof.
d.	If a change in the posted shift schedule results in an employee having to change shifts after the start of the work week, overtime will be paid for the first shift resultingfrom the change.
16
ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK (cont’d)
e.	The parties to this agreement agree that the Company has the right to operate its plant or any paris thereof for nine (9) hours per shift, the said nine (9) hours to constitutethe regularhours of work per day. The Company shall retainthe right to determine shift length up to nine (9) hours per shift in any unit or department of the operation. Rate and one-half shall be paid for any hours worked over eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.
The Company agrees to give at least ten (10) working days notice of change from an eight (8) hour shift schedule to a nine (9) hour shift schedule and at least three (3) working days notice of a change from a nine (9) hour shift schedule to an eight (8) hour shift schedule. The change in shift schedule from an eight (8) hour shift to a nine (9) hour shift will be implemented at the beginningof a work week.
Section 6(e) above shall apply to all areas of Grande Prairie Operations except the planermill.
f.	It is understoodthat when a nine (9) hour shift is required in the planermillfor a period of up to one (7) month, the Executive of the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company and to recommend to the employees affected that they work the nine (9) hour shift for the above period.
The Union Executive will advise the Company if fifty-one percent (51%) of those voting haveapproved. When such notice is received,the Company will make arrangements to institutethe nine (9) hour shift in the planermill.
Section 7 - Three-Shift Operation
a.	The Company shall have the right to operate its plant or any part thereof on a three-shift basis, and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours' pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Detailsof shifts shall be varied at the Company's option.
b.	It is agreed that (a) above shall apply to only those employees actually working on a three-shift basis.
c The Company shall have the right to determine the number of shifts operated in any unit or department of the operation.
17
ARTICLE 8 - HOU RS OF WORK (cont’d)
d.	Where less than three shifts are worked, Clause (a) shall not apply.
e.	The foregoing provisions of this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 8 - Lunch & Rest Periods
Employees shall have two (2) ten (10) minute paid rest periods during each shift, one within each half of a shift at a time designated by the company, which shall not be earlier than one (1) hour into each half shift nor later than one (1) hour before the end of each half shift.
During the graveyard short shift there shall be one (1) ten (10) minute paid rest
period.
Employees will be allowed one (1) thirty (30) minute lunch break as designated during each regularshift.
Section 9 - Notificationof Absence
When an employee is unavoidably prevented from reporting for his scheduled shift, if reasonably possible, he must give notice to his foreman, or at the Company office, at least two (2) hours before the shift commences.
Section 10 - Meals
When an employee is notified during his normal shift that he will be required to work two (2) or more hours overtime beyondthat shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal, such meal to be consumed on Company time.
Where the employee declines the meal, the Company will provide the employee with a Tan Dollar($10.00) payrollcredit.
18
ARTICLE 8- HOURS OF WORK (cont’d)
The foregoing shall not apply to overtime which is scheduled prior to the commencementofthe normal shift, provided that a minimum of three (3) hours notice priorto the commencement of the normal shift is given.
Section 11 -Advance Notification of Returnto Work
Where an employee has been off work due to illness or injury for more than two (2) days, he must advise the Company at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance regarding his ability to return to work.
In the case of shorter absences, notice must be given by 12:00 noon for Afternoon shift and prior to the end of the working day previous for Day shift.
ARTICLE 9 -ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULES
The Union and the Company shall havethe right underthe terms of the Agreement to mutually agree upon and implement alternate shift schedules of different lengths from those covered in Articles - Hours of Work which may includeSundays without overtime, provided the principleof the forty (40) hour work week is maintainedover an averaging period not to exceed eight (8) weeks.
ARTICLE 10-SENIORITY
Section 1 -Probation Period
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, it shall be mutually agreed that allemployeesare hired on probation, the probationary periodto continue untilthirty (30) days have been worked, during which time they are to be considered probationary employees only, and during this same period, no seniority rights shall be recognized.
19
ARTICLE 10 -SENIORITY(cont’d)
Upon completion of thirty (30) days worked, they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company’s employ, provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) days worked shall only be cumulative within the ninety (90) calendar days following the date of enteringemployment.
Section 2 - Principle
a.	The Company recognizes the principleof seniority, competency considered.
b.	When making promotions. the Company agrees to give due considerationto length of service.
c.	Where the Company operates more than one plant, each plant will be considered separately for seniority purposes, except where the Union and the Company agree upon some different arrangement.
Section 3- Application
a.	The application of seniority shall be based first on department and second on plant seniority.
b.	Promotionswithin a department will be based on plant seniority, competency considered.
section 4 -Departments
Departmentsfor seniority purposes shall be:
a.	Maintenance and miscellaneous
b.	Production
When an employee bids into a department and is confirmed in the department, his plant and department senioritywill be equal.
20
ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY(cont’d),
Section 5 - Reduction of Forces
a.	In the event of a reduction of forces, the last person hired shall be the first released subject to the provisions of Sedion2(a) of this Article.
b.	Prior to a reductionofforces, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the application of seniority of those employees who remain on the job, but whose jobs have been eliminated as a result of the reduction of the work force. Senior employees will be given the opportunity, in line with seniority, to perform jobs for which they are competent.
c.	Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions, the application of seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding five (5) working days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Union as soon as possible.
d.	In the event of a reduction of forces within a department, the employee with last plant seniority will be the first out of the department. The employees affected by the reductionmay apply seniority in accordance with (a) above or the employee may, by request, revert to their previously held jobs within the department, providingthey have plant seniority to remain in the department.
e.	In the event of a reduction of forces, total plant seniority will be applied as follows: The last person hired shall be the first released, according to plant seniority,competency considered.
f.	For the purpose of this agreement, temporary reductions shall mean a period not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days, subject to review and extensionby the parties prior to the end of each thirty (30) day period.
g.	Prior to any reduction of forces, the Company and Union Executive will meet to discuss such things as: applicationof seniority as it affects employees both remainingand laid off, as well as the length of time of the reduction.
21
ARTICLE 10 -SENIORITY (cont'd)
Section 6 • Recall
a.	It is agreed that when employees are to be recalled after layoff, it shall be done on the basis of the lest person released shall be the first person recalled, subject to the provisions of Section 2(a). It is agreed that in cases of emergency the application of plant seniority may be postponedfor such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding three (3) days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Union immediately.
b.	It is agreed that when recalling employees laid off due to seasonal shutdown or reduction of (he working forces, they will be notified in order of plant seniority by communication to their last known address, prior to starting of operations.
c It shall be the Company's responsibility to maintain an address file of employees and it shall be the employee's responsibility io keep the Company informed in writing of any change of address.
Section 7 ■ Retention of Seniority
It is agreed between the parties that seniority during layoffs shall be retainedon
the following basis:
a. Employees with less than one (1) year's service will retain their seniority for a periodof six (6) months.
b.	Employeeswith one(1) or more years of service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year plus one (1) additional month for each year of service up to an additional six (6) months.
c.	A (aid-off employee's seniority retention as defined in (a) and (b) above is re-instateduponthe completion ofone(1) day's work.
22
ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY (cont’d)
Section 8 - Seniority lists
It is agreed that upon the request of the Union, a list will be supplied by the Company setting out the name and the starting date with the Company of each regular employee on a plant basis. The Company will advise the Union once each month of changes to the said list.
Section 9 - Transfer to Staff
In the case where an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory position, he will continue to accumulate seniority for a period of ninety (90) consecutive calendar days. At any time during the ninety (90) day probationary period, the individual shall havethe right to return to the bargaining unit in the job which hepreviouslyheld.
At the expiration of the period mentioned above, his seniority will be frozen, Thus, if at a later date, he ceases to be a supervisor and the Company desires to retain his services, it is hereby agreed that re-instatementcan be made within the bargaining unit provided, however, that any employee so re-instated must return to an entry level job. For seniority purposes, he shall have his frozen seniority plus his newly accumulated seniority.
An employee shall only be entitled to one (1) such ninety (90) calendar day periodwithin an eighteen{18) month period.
ARTICLE 11 - JOB POSTING AND TRAINING
The purpose of the Job Posting and Training Program is to select senior persons for training in the Production Department and thereby afford them the opportunity to become competent to perform other jobs in the operation.
23
ARTICLE 11 - JOB POSTING AND TRAINING(cont'd)
Job Posting, Training Procedure and Seniority Clarification
1.	The Company shall have the right to temporarily fill the job vacancy subject to the job posting procedure and seniority clarification.
2.	a. All permanentvacancies shall be posted
b.	Temporary vacancies of less than three (3) weeks shall not be posted.
c In filling the non-posted temporary vacancies, senior employees, competency considered, will be given preference.
d.	Ninety (90) calendar days after a temporaryjob posting has been closed, it will become a permanentjob and will be re-postedas permanent.
e.	Employeesfilling the vacancies created in (d) above will return to their previouslyheld bid positions on the return of the employee causing the vacancy.
f.	The parties hereby agree that if an employee becomes unableto performhis/her normaljob duties for any reason, such employee will be placed in another job category for which the employee has sufficient seniority in accordance with Article 10 - Seniority, Section 2(a).
3.	Vacancies will be posted on job posting bulletin board for a period of three (3)working days (excluding Saturday and Sunday).
4.	Only written bidswill be accepted. Formswill be provided end must be used and placed in the container in the lunchrooms.
5.	The name of the successful candidate will be written on original posting and be re-postedfor a period of two (2) working days.
6.	All bid refusals must be inwriting on the forms provided
7.	All bidswill befiled.
24
ARTICLE 11 - JOB POSTING AND TRAINING (cont’d)
8.	Names of applicantswill be listed on the file copy of the posting.
9.	The Union shall receive a list of the bids.
10.	Successful bidders for permanent vacancies involving lateral or downward bids will be limited to two (2) every six (6) months. It is agreed that bids for higher paid jobs will not be limited, with the exception of frivolous bidding for which the Company and the Union shall agree to limitations.
11.	Successful bidders shall be placed on the jobs as soon as possible, but not later than ten (10) working daysfromthe date of declaring the successful bidder. In the event of problemsarising from this section, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the application.
12.	If the successful bidder has previously qualified on the job for which he is bidding, the fifteen (15) working day trial period will not apply. The parties agree if an employee has been selected and the job for which he has been selected requiresa longertrial period than fifteen (15)working days, the trial period can be extended but not to exceed twenty (20) working days. Extension of the fifteen (15) working day trial period shall be by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
13.	During the abovetrial period, the Company can, for good and sufficient cause, return the employee to his original job. The employee may, during the above trial period, voluntarily return to his original job.
14.	If an employee is declared incompetent in a certain job:
a.	He cannot again apply for that vacancy for one (1) year.
b.	H; goes back to his original position, and the vacancy shall be reposted.
15.	When a vacancy has been posted and the successful applicant is chosen and the same job becomes vacant, it is agreed that the next senior competent bidder will be given the opportunity to fill the job, provided the time limit does not exceed a ten (10) working day period from the time of the original bid being awarded.
25
ARTICLE 11 - JOB POSTING AND TRAINING (cont’d)
In the event the senior applicant does not accept the postedjob, his namewill nonethelessremainonthe posting. Ifthejob becomesvacant within the previously mentioned ten (10) day period, he will still be eligible to fill the position.
16.	When a job vacancy occurs, the vacancy will be posted and the job will be awarded on the following basis:
a.	First priority in order of seniority to those who have previously lost the position as a result of a reductionof forces. This right to continue for one (1)year.
b.	General plant seniority, competency considered.
17.	Newly createdjobs shall be posted at "interim" rates until Management and the Union agree on the final wage rate.
18.	The job postingform shall include:
1.	Date
2.	Recognizednameofthejob.
3.	Department involved.
4.	Hourly rate.
5.	The place where the applications are lo be submitted and the expiry time.
6.	Any specific qualifications.
7.	Space for the applicant's name.
8.	Shift identification.
19.	It is understoodthat employees absent from work due to vacation, sickness or injury, or approved leave of absence by the Company shall have the right to an absentee bid. Such a bid will be placed by a member of the Union on the posting on the instruction of the absent employee.
20.	It is agreed Maintenance, Apprentices, Trade Utility, Saw Filers and MiscellaneousCategories shall be posted on a plant-wide basis. Plant seniority will be the determining factor in awarding thejob.
26
ARTICLE 11 -JOB POSTING AND TRAINING (cont’d)
21.	a. When anemployeesuccessfullybidsintoajobgroupcategorywhich involves rotation and training, the employee will be paid the rate of the job group bid until he completes his training on the job in the higher paid group. The employee shall then receive the higher group rate as long as rotation is in effect.
b.	When an employee has, as a result of job rotation, completed, training, he will be so advised in writing by Management.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1 -Ceneral PrlncinlfiK
a.	Any employeedesiring leave of absencefor any reason otherthan those set out in Sections2 and 3 of this Article must obtain same in writing from the Company, a copy of such leave to be forwarded to the Local Union.
b.	Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this section for a period of no longerthan thirty (30) calendar days, the Company agrees to notify the Union as to the circumstances for the granting of such a period of
leave.
c.	The Company will grant leave tf absence to a maximum of six (6Jmonths without pay to employees for educational or training purposes, conditional on the followingterms:
i)	That the employee has at least one (1) year seniority with the company.
ii)	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for such an application could not reasonably beforeseen.
iii)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application.
27
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE <cont’d)
iv)	That the Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant, or may postpone leave for educational or training purposes where a suitable replacement is not available.
v)	That the Company shall be required to notify the Union of its decision in respect to any applicationfor leave under this section.
vi)	That the employee is only entitled to one leave of absence for educational or training purposes per calendar year.
Section 2 ■ Injury or Illness
The Companywill grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness,
subject to a medical certificate if requested by the employer.
Section 3 ■ Union Business
a.	The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or elected to the Union office for a period of up to and including one year. Further leave of absence may be granted by mutual consent. Any employee who obtains such leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days aftercompletion of his term of employmentwith the Union.
b.	The Union will make every effort in requesting such leaves of absence to avoid requeststhat will unduly deplete the crew in any one department which will impair production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Union will cooperate with the Company in making substitute employees availableor select alternate delegates to attend Unionfunctions.
c.	The Company will grant leave of absence to any employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions, or members of any Union Negotiating Committee in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
28
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE (cont’d)
d.	It is agreed that before the employee receives this leave of absence as set forth in Clauses (a) and (c) above, the employer will be given due notice in writing by the Union in order to replace the employee with a competent substitute.
Section 4 - Bereavement Leave
a.	When death occurs to a member of a regular, full-time employee's immediate family, the Company will grant a Leave of Absence for a reasonable periodof time. Members of the employee's immediate family are defined as the spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, step-parents, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchildren, sisters-in-law, brothers-in-law, stepchildren or legalguardian.
b.	The Company will pay a maximum of three (3) days pay lost time at the employee's regular rate of pay for bereavement leave.
Section 5 - Jury Duty
a.	Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, Coroner's Duty, or as a Crown Witness or Coroner's Witness on a day which he would normally have worked will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay receivedfor Jury Duty and his regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for his regular scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received for Jury Duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of Jury Service and Jury Duty pay received.
b.	Hours paid for Jury Duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purposeof computing overtime.
29
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE (cont’d)
Section6 ■ Maternity leave
To provide for a reasonable period of time for extended Maternity Leave without pay to female employees where there is a valid medical reason, and in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
Section 7 ■ Paternity Leave
The Company will grant Paternity Leave without pay io male employees up to a maximum of six (eweeks.
Section 8 • Public Office
a.	The Company will grant leave <f absence for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial a- Municipal elective public office for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b.	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for conducting Municipal business.
c.	The employeewho obtainsthis leave of absence shall return to the company within thirty (30) calendardays after completion of publicoffice.
Section 9 - ExtendedVacatlons
The Company will grant leave for extended vacation where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant on the following terms:
30
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE (cont’d)
a.	The employee shall disclosethe reasons for such application.
b.	Employees making application for absence for "Extended Vacations" shall apply at least one (1) month in advance.
c.	It is agreed that upon employee's request for leave of absence for extended vacations, such leaves shall only be granted once every three (3) years and that a record be kept for the purposeof rotating such leaves to the most senior applicant.
d.	That applications for extended vacations may be postponed where a suitable replacement is not available.
Section 10 - Other
By mutual agreement, the Company will grant a reasonable period of leave for compassionatereasons.
ARTICLE 13 -STATUTORYHOLIDAYS
a In the event that a Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the following Monday or any other day that may be designated by either the Provincial or Federal Government shall be observed as the holiday.
b.	If another day is substitutedby statute or decree for the observance of any of the holidays listed below, the day of the observance shall be deemed to be the holiday. If a Statutory Holiday falls on an employee's normal day off, the employee shall be grantedone other day in lieu of the holiday.
c.	All work performed on the Statutory Holidays below shall be paid for at rate and one-half:
31
ARTICLE 13 -STATUTORY HOLIDAYS(cont'd)
New Year's Day	Canada Day	RemembranceDay
Good Friday	Labour Day	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving Day	Boxing Day
Family Day
d.	An employee who qualifiesfor the above holidays under the conditionsset out below in Paragraph (e) shall be paid for the holiday at his regular rate of pay for his regular work schedule. It is agreed that the hours so paid for the Statutory Holiday will be includedin the weekly work schedule, An employee working on a paid holiday shall be paid the overtime rate for hours worked in additionto receivingthe straight time holidaypay for which he may qualify.
e.	Any employee, to qualify for Statutory Holiday pay, must have been on the payroll thirty (30) days during the twelve (12) months preceding, and must have worked his last regularly scheduled shift before, and his first regularly scheduled after the holiday, unless his absence is due to compensable injury or illness or due to authorized leave of absence. I n the case of injury or illness, the employer shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
f.	Notwithstandingany of the foregoing provisions, if an employee fails to work within forty-five (45) calendar days immediatelypriortothe holiday, and within forty-five (45) calendar days immediately after the holiday,the employee shall not be entitled to be pa id for any Statutory Holiday within that period.
g.	It is agreed that Casual employees shall not qualify for Statutory Holiday pay.
h.	In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, and when the Company and Union Committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the precedingMonday or the following Friday respectively.
i.	At the request of the Local with thirty (30) days notice, the Company agrees to exchange Heritage Day for Family Day as the down Statutory Holiday.
j.	If a Statutory Holiday falls during an employee's vacation, such employee will take a paid day off at a date that is mutually agreeable to the employee and the Company.
32
ARTICLE 14 - PERSONALAND FLOATING HOLIDAYS
Section 1 - Floating Holiday
Regularfull-timed employees will be granted two (2) floating holidaysduringeach contract year, one of which will be in lieu of Heritage Day. These holidaysare to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production. Legislation changes will not add to or reduce the number of Floating Holidays or Statutory holidays.
Section 2 - Floating Holiday Entitlement
a.	An employee must have worked for the Company one hundred eighty (180) calendar days to qualify for the floating holidays.
b.	Employees will not qualify for the floating holidays if on leave of absence for morethansix (6) months in the contract year except inthe case of sickness or injury.
c.	When the floating holiday is taken, an employee will be granted eight (8) hours' pay at the straight time rate of the employee's regularjob subject to the foregoing.
d.	When the employee requests his Floating Holiday less than ten (10) days priorto the date of the Floating Holiday, he shall receive written notice of the disposition of his request a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested Floating Holiday.
e.	When the employee requestshis Floating Holiday more than ten (10) working days priorto the date of the Floating Holiday, he shall receivewritten notice of the disposition of the request a minimum of seven (7) days prior to the requested Floating Holiday.
f.	When an employee is requiredto work on his floating holiday, he will be paid rate and one-halfplus his regularjob rate. An employee requestedto work on his floating holiday will have the option to work the originally scheduled floating holiday at time and one-half and to reschedule the floating holiday with pay at a later date.
33
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
Section 1 ■ One to Two Years Service
a.	A Vacation with Pay will be granted to employees in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act governing Vacations with Pay and amendments thereto, except that vacation pay for employees with less than one(1) yeah servicewill be calculated in accordance with Sedion34 of such Act.
b.	Employeeswith one to two years' service will receive two (2) weeks vacation with vacation pay calculated at five percent (5%) of the employee's total earnings.
Section 2 - Two Years Service
a.	The Company further agrees to grant all employeeswith two (2) or more years of continuous service three (3)weeks vacation based on seven percent (7%) of total earnings.
b.	The third week of vacation as in (a) above does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in the above Section but at a time convenient to the Company.
Section .3 ■ Savon Years' Service
a.	An employee with seven (7) or more years' continuous service shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay based on nine percent (9%)of total earnings.
b.	The additionalone week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1 and2 herein.
34
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS WITH PAY (cont’d)
Section 4 - fifteen Years' Service
a.	An employee with fifteen (15) or more years of continuous service shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay based on eleven percent (11%) of total earnings.
b.	The additional one week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2 and 3.
Section 5 • Twenty-Four Years' Service
a.	An employeewith twenty-four (24) or more years of continuous service shall receive six (6) weeks vacation with pay based on thirteen percent (13%) of total earnings,
b.	The additionalone week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in
Sections 1, 2, 3 and4.
Section 6 - Thirty Years' Service
a An employee with thirty (30) or more years of continuous service shall receive seven (7) weeks vacation with pay based on fifteen percent (15%) of total earnings.
b. The additional one week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1,2, 3, 4 and 5.
35
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS WITH PAY (cont’d)
Section 7 - Vacation Scheduling
Vacations for Union employees shall be taken at such time as is mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Company, when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired. Date or dates for annual vacations will be posted two (2) months in advance, if possible, or not lessthan one (ln)onth in advance.
Employees shall have the following options and will make their wishes known on the forms supplied
a.	Receivingvacation pay at the time vacations are taken.
b.	Receiving vacation pay in a lump sum and taking earned time off during the vacationyear.
Section 8 ■ Time Included for Vacation Entitlement
The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations with pay for an employeeafter one (1) year of continuousemployment:
a.	Absence on Workers' Compensationup to a period of one (1) year, provided the employee returns to his employment.
b.	Absence due to illness up to a period rfone(1) year, provided the employee returns to his employment. The employer shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
36
ARTICLE 16 - SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
Sortinn 1 - Principles
a.	The Company and the employees will cooperate to assure safe working methods and conditions and devise plans for furtherance of safety measures.
b.	The Company and the employees agree to comply with the Occupational Health and Safety Act Regulations, and to carry out instructions as directed from time to time by representatives of the Board in the furtherance of safety measures.
c.	The employees and Joint Health & Safety Committee members are expected to immediately report any unsafe conditionsto Management.
Section 2 - Joint Health & Safety Committee
a.	The Company shall maintain a Joint Health and Safety Committee consisting of not more than twelve (12) members not less than four (4) members.
b.	Members of the Committee shall be designatedand shall consist of an equal number of representatives of the Company and the Union. Union representatives shall be regular employees in the operation with at least one year's experience.
c.	The general duties of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be governed by the rules and regulations laid down from time to time under the OccupationalHealth and Safety Act.
d.	Joint Health and Safety Committee meetings shall be held during working hours where possible. Employees' time will not be deducted for attending such meetings or investigations into accidents.
37
ARTICLE 16 - SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH (cont’d)
Section 3 • Compensation
Committee meetings held outside regular working hours will be paid at employees' regular straight-time hourly rate.
Section 4 - Fatal Accident
a.	In the case of a fatal accident, the Accident Prevention Committee in the operation shall, within forty-eight (48) hours conduct an investigation and report its findings to the parties.
b.	Any or all employeesworking in the immediatearea when a fatal accident has occurred may, without loss of pay, refrain from working the balance of the
shift.
ARTICLE 17 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE Section 1 rSommlttee
The Union shall selected a maximum of four (4) employees to serve as a GrievanceCommittee, names of whom shall be supplied I o the Company
The Company and the Union mutually agree that when a grievance arises in the plant coming under the terms of this Agreement, il shall be taken up in the following manner:
38
ARTICLE 17 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (cont’d)
Step 1 The individualemployee involved, with the Shop Steward shall first take up the matter with the foreman directly in charge of the work within fourteen (14) days from the lime when the employee has knowledge, or may reasonably be presumed to have knowledge of such event or events giving rise to the grievance.
Step 2	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be referredto the
Local Unionand Management.
Step3	If the grievance is not then satisfactorily resolved, it shall be referredto
the national Union Representative and a representativeof the employer.
Step 4 If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by Arbitration as set forth in Article 18.
On agreement of all parties in writing, any step of the grievance procedure can be
waived.
Section 3 - Abandonment
If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage under Steps 1, 2, 3 or 4 within fourteen (14) days after completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shalt be at an end. When the Union is unable to observe the specified time limit by reason of the absence of the aggrieved employee from the plant for causes beyond his control the said time limit shall not apply, but the Union shall be boundto proceed in such case as quickly as possible.
ARTICLE 18 -ARBITRATION
Section 1 - Principles
In case of any dispute arising regarding the application of this Agreement, which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves as providedfor under the Grievance Procedure Article XVII, the matter shall be determined by arbitration in the following manner:
39
ARTICLE 18 -ARBITRATION (cont’d)
a.	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by registered mail of the question arbitrated. In addition, such notification shall include a list of names of people who may be acceptableto both partiesto act as a single arbitrator to hear the issue or issues. After receiving such notice, the other party shall within five (5) working days notify the other party of acceptance of one of the names, or rejedallofthe names proposed by the first party. If the partiesfail to agree on a single arbitrator, they shall forthwith request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Alberta to appoint an Arbitrator.
b.	No one shall serve as a member of an Arbitration Boardwho:
jj either directly or indirectlyhas an interest in the subject of the Arbitration
ii) has participated in the grievance procedure precedingthe Arbitration
Hi) is or has been within the period of six (6) months preceding the
initiation of the Arbitration, been employed by the Employees' Union or a company directly engaged in the forest products industry.
c.	The decision of the Arbitration Board shall be by majority vote and shall be finaland bindingipon the Partiesof the First and Second Parts.
d.	If any Arbitration Board finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged. that employee shall be reinstated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this Agreement, provided alwaysthat if it is shown to the Boardthatthe employee has been in receipt of wages during the period during the discharge (or suspension) and reinstatement, or date of failure to re-hire and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages payable by the Company pursuantto (his Section.
Section 2 - Expenses
The Parties of the First and Second Parts will each bear the expense end charges of its representatives on any Arbitration Board, and shall bear in equal portions the expenses and allowances of the Chairman, and stenographic and secretarialexpense, and rent.
•to
ARTICLE 18 - ARBITRATION (cont’d)
Section 3 - Location
Any arbitrationto be held hereunder shall be held at the City of Grande Prairie or at such other place as may be decided by the Board.
ARTICLE 19 - HEALTH AND WELFARE
The following coverage will be provided
a.	Participations the plan is lo be a conditionof employment for new employees.
b,	GroupLife Insuranceforeachqualifiedemployeeasfollows:
March 1,1998	$70,000
March 1,1999	$80,000
c Accidental Death and DismembermentInsurancefor each qualified employee as follows:
March 1,1998	$70,000
March 1,1999	$80,000
d.	Weekly Indemnity for each qualified employee:
EffectiveMarch 1, 1999: $475.00 perweek
EffectiveMarchl, 1995, a “No Downs" provisionwill be introduced so the four hundredforty-eight dollars ($448.00) perweek benefitwill not be reduced by further reductions by U.I,C. of the maximum insurableearnings number.
e.	Employeeswill be covered by Extended Health Benefitsin accordance with the Canfor Plan (MSA).
41
ARTICLE 19 - HEALTH AND WELFARE (cont’d)
f,	Premiumcost of providingcoverage under this Article will be borne by the Company.
g.	The parties agree to extend the existing Extended Health Benefits Plan to incorporatea medical travel allowance for necessary medical travel when members or their dependents are referred by their attending physicianto medical specialistsin Alberta and such referrals require travel from the patient'scommunityof employment in excess of 500 km on a round trip basis.
1.	The MedicalTravel Allowance provisionwill be effective September 1, 1998. The maximum allowance payableon behalf of any member or dependent is Six Hundred dollars ($600.00) over the term of the agreement.
2.	Eligibleexpenseswill includebillsfor regularly-scheduledeconomy class air fares, hotel accommodationand taxi fares.
3.	Travel by private automobilewill be paid for at Thirty cents ($.30) per kilometer.
4.	All medical referrals will be in writing and travel must take place within two months of the physician's referral, unless the earliest possible date of availabilityof the specialist is beyond two (2) months from the referral.
5.	Entitlements hotel expenses will be based on the reasonablenessof the member or dependent being unable to return home on the day of the referral.
6.	A claim form with receipts must be filed by the member within ninety (90) days of the date eligible expenses are incurred.
7.	Expensesthat are payable underthe Workers' Compensation Act or any othergovernmentauthority or insuranceplan will not be eligible for reimbursement from this provision.
42
ARTICLE 20 - LONG TERM DISABILITY
A Long Term Disability Plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
The Planto be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis.
Benefits to continueto age sixty (60)
The Plan will provide, after 52 weeks of disability, a benefit of 50% of gross monthly earnings to a maximum of:
March 1,1995	$1800
March 1,1996	$1900
March 1,1997	$2000
ARTICLE 21 - DENTAL PLAN
A Dental Plan will be provided, based on the following general principles
a Basic dental services (Plan A) - Planpayseightypercent(80%)of approved Alberta Schedule
b Prosthetics, crowns and bridges (Pl^n B) - Plan pays sixty percent (60%) of approved Alberta schedule of fees
c Orthodontic(Pian C) - Plan payssixty percent(60%) (/approvedAlberta schedule of fees (Lifetime maximum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500 00) Effective September 1,1999, lifetime maximum for dependent childrenwill be raised to three Thousand Dollars ($3,000 00)
d Premiumcostfor providingcoveragei under this Article will be borne by the Company
e Eligibility shall be the first of the month following the date of completionof the probationaryperiod
f Participations the Plan is to be a condition of employment
43
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE FAMILY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Management and Union have established an Employee Family Assistance Program(E,F.A.P,) committee, comprised of equal representationfrom Union and Management.
The intent of this program is to provide a supportive, qualified and confidential E.F.A.P. for ail \Mio choose to use its services. Either party may request amendments to, or a review of and/or renewed commitment to the Employee Family Assistance Program at any time.
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY EQUIPMENT
a.	The Company shall replace the following equipment at no cost to the employeewhen those articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair and when they are required by the Company or the Occupational Health and Safety Act
1 Aprons
2.	Hard Flats and Liners
3.	Eye, Ear and Nose Protective Equipment
4.	Safety Pants (yard buckers)
b.	Where the Company has been supplying safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date of this Agreement, it will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
c.	The Company will provideaprons as required at no charge to Stacker, Resaw and Reman Operators.
d.	Rain suits will be providedas required for employeesworking on hydraulics or water lines.
E.& O.E.
44
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY EQUIPMBNT(cont’d)
e Effective March 1, 1999, employeeswill be reimbursed up to One Hundred Ten dollars ($110 00) per year upon presentation of a receipt for CSA approvedsafety-toed footwear
Effective March 1, 2000, employees kill be reimbursed up to One Hundred Twenty dollars ($12000) per year upon presentationof a receipt for CSA approved safety-toedfootwear
f The Company will provide one (I) only pair of safety prescriptioneyewear per employee at Company expense provjded that the lenses and frames meet current CSA standardsfor safety eypwear
g Gloves will be supplied at no cost to the employee and will be replaced at no cost when the old pair is presented worn or damaged, otherwise, replacement will be at the expense of the employee
ARTICLE 24 - PENSION PLAN
The Company agrees to actuarily fund th$ Pension Plan in accordance with the provisionsof Supplements attachedto this agreement It is further agreed that pensioncontributions will be placed in trust
The Company agrees to provide a one-tiire contribution to the Pension Plan of forty-four cents ($44) per hour on October 1, 1995 The contribution will be based on the total pensionable hours worked by employees during the 1994 calendaryear
45
ARTICLE 25 - APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT
Subject to the provisions of the Apprenticeship Act, the Government of the Province of Alberta, end the regulations made pursuant thereto respecting the following trades:
1.	Electrician
2.	Motor Mechanic
3.	Heavy Duty Mechanic
4.	Millwright
5.	Welder
6.	Machinist
It is agreed as follows:
Training time for Apprentices shall be in accordance with the scheduling for each trade as specified by the ApprenticeshipAct as listed herein
Length of
TRADE	Apprenticeship	At Vocational School
Electrician	4 years	1st year-S weeks
2ndyear-8weeks 3rdyear-8weeks 4th year -12 weeks
MotorMechanic	4 years
Heavy Duty Mechanic 4 years
Millwright	4 years
1st year-8 weeks 2nd year - 8 weeks 3rd year - 8 weeks 4th year - 8 weeks
1st year-8 weeks 2nd year - 8 weeks 3rdyear-8weeks 4th year-8 weeks
1st year-8 weeks 2ndyear-8weeks 3rd year-8 weeks 4th year- 8 weeks
46
ARTICLE 25-APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT (cont’d)
Welder	3 years	1st year-6 weeks 2nd year-6 weeks 3rd year-8 weeks
Machinist	4 years	1st year-8 weeks 2nd year-8 weeks 3rd year - 8 weeks 4th year - 8 weeks
Section 1 - Wage rates for Apprentices
Wage rates for Apprentices (who pass required tests) shall not be less than the percentage of the prevailingwages of Journeyman as specifiedfreach trade by the Apprenticeship and Industry Training Act with respect to the trade (Journeymen’s rates are set forth in Wage Supplement #1 to the Collective Agreement between the parties )
Section 2-Expenses
The Company shall pay Apprentices while attending vocational school the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities andthe regularwagesoftheemployeeconcerned
Since persons shall receive the wages less the sum paid to them by the appropriate Government authorities, married persons shall receive their wages less the sum paid to single persons by the appropriate Government authorities The provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this program
Section 3 - Selection of Apprentices
When the Company requiresApprentices for any of the above-named trades, the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article 11 of the Collective Agreement
Section 4 -Successful Applicants
Successful applicantswill be assigned for a three-month probationaryperiod prior to being apprentices
47
ARTICLE 25 - APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT (cont’d)
Section 5 - Right to Continue
Once started in the Apprenticeship Program subject, however, to the provisions rf the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providinghe passes all the prescribed tests and work is availablefor him.
Section 6 • Tests
In the event the Apprentice fails to pass the required tests, he will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second test in any period during his term as an Apprentice, he shall be required to withdraw from the program. It is understood, however, that he will continue to be employed in whateverjob is available for him in the operation.
Section 7 - Tools
(a)	Journeyman - All Journeymen shall be requiredto have, and shall not qualify for Journeyman rates unless they have a full kit of hand tods necessary to perform the job for which they are hired.
(b)	Apprentices - All Apprentices shall be required to have and maintaina tool kit to perform the job for which they are hired.
ARTICLE 26-TOOL INSURANCE
a.	The Company at its own expense shall insure for damage or loss caused by fire or flood, the tools of its employees which are required in the performance of their work. This provision for tool insuranceshall also apply to loss by theft where tods are stored in a designated secure place supplied by the Company and there isforcible breaking and entering. In the event of flood or theft, the insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of fifty dollars ($50.00) in respect of each employee's claim. In order to be eligible for loss, an employee must have supplied the Company with a written list of tools required in the performanceof work and stored with the Company.
48
ARTICLE 26 - TOOL INSURANCE(COnt’d)
b.	The Company will repair or replace those tradesmen's and Apprentices' tools that are damaged, broken or lost in the performance of regular duties with tools that are of equal or better qualitywhenever possible.
c.	The Company agrees that it will replace or repair those Apprentices' tools that are damaged or broken in the performanceof regular duties.
d.	The Company will make available for use tools required upon the introduction of the metric system.
ARTICLE 27 - CONTRACTINGOUT
a.	It is not the intent of the Company to replace regular employees by the use of Contractors or sub-contractors.
b.	Work normally performed by regular employees will continue to be performed by them, except when justified by special circumstances. Meetings will be held with the Union Executive to discuss instances of special circumstances when they arise.
c.	New construction, major renovations/rebuilds and overload maintenance are exempted from the above.
ARTICLE28 -GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1 - letters of Understanding & Supplements
It is agreed that Memoranda of Agreement such as "Pension Plan", "Seasonal Job Posting Policy", "Sawmill and Planer Utility Positions", "Compressed Work Week Schedule - Maintenance", "Alternate Employment" and other attachments shall form part of this Agreement, except where they have been modified by the parties or substituted by other provisions in this agreement.
49
ARTICLE 28 - GENERALPROVISIONS(cont’d)
Section 2 -Coveralls
The Company will make available and maintainthree (3) pairs of coveralls for use on company properlyto regular employees in the following categories:
Tradesmen Apprentices Trade Utility Mill Handyman Crane Operators Glue Mixers
Truck Drivers Oilers
Kiln Attendants Planerman (Maintenance) Cleanup
Crowder Feeders
Coveralls will be made available and provided upon request to all employees working in abnormally dirty areas.
Section 3 - Medical Examinations
The Company shall pay for all employee medical examinations not covered by Alberta Medicare, if such medical examination is a prerequisitefor the job of that employee or a prerequisite of the licensing requirements of the job of that employee.
Section4-Bulletin Boards
The Company shall supply adequately enclosed official bulletinboardsfor the use of the Union in postingof official signed bulletins.
Section S - Alternate F i In ment
1.	Whenever and wherever possible, the Company will provide alternate employmentfor workers injured on or off the job.
2.	The alternate employment must be suitable for the worker, his injury and where necessary co-ordinated with the worker's physician.
50
ARTICLE 28 - GENERAL PROVISIONS (cont’d)
3.	Such employment will be on a short term basis.
4.	In some cases workers will be required to changejobs to accommodate an injured worker. Workers required to changejobs will be paid their regular, or the newjob rate, whichever is higher. No one will be laid off to accommodate the injured worker.
5.	Any alternate employment must be productive
6.	The pay rate for such alternate employmentwill be at the worker's regular job rate or the alternatejob rate, whichever is higher.
7.	Any alternate employmentwill be on a voluntary basis; the Company, however, does not promise there will be alternate employment available.
8.	Any workers on alternate employmentmust be made aware of any operating conditions such as help available and safe work instructionsfor the job they are performing.
Section 6 - Disability Management Committee
The Company and the Union agree to form a joint committee of equal
representation of Union and Management to develop and establish a Disability
Management system, including Duty to Accommodate,for the Grande Prairie
Division. This committeewill be formed and functioning by March 1, 1999.
ARTICLE 29- PERMANENT PLANT CLOSURE
Inthe event of a permanentplant closure of the Company's operation in Grande Prairie, the employees shall be entitled to severance pay equal to seven (7) days' pay for each year of continuous service providedthe employees involved have not been offered employment by the company in another manufacturing operation of the Company in the Grande Prairie area.
Inthe event the plant is relocatedwithin a radius of eighty (80) kilometresand the employees involved are not required to relocatetheir place of residence and are not terminated by the Company as a result of the plant relocation,they shall not be entitled to severance pay.
51
ARTICLE 30 - TECHNOLOGICALCHANGE
Section 1 -AdvanceNotlflcation
The Company shall notify the Plant Committeeand the Union not less than three (3) monthsin advance of intent, to institute materialchanges in working methods orfacilities which would involvethe discharge or layoff of employees
Section 2 -Severance Pay
Employees discharged or laid off directly because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of one (1) week's pay for each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks' pay.
Section 3 - Rate Adjustment
Where the Company has exercised its right to eliminate a job or jobs through automation or the installation of new equipment, the employees affected shall have the right to exercise their seniority in accordance with the seniority provisions of the Agreement, and such employees' rate of pay shall be red circled for a period of three (3) months, and for a further period of three (3) months, !he employee will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his regularjob at the time of the setback the rate of his new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period, the rate of his new regularjob will apply.
ARTICLE 31-DURATION OF AGREEMENT
The parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effediveon and after the 1st day of March, 1998, to and indudingthe last day of February
notice to commencecollective bargaining for amendments is given by either Party. The notice required hereundershall be validly and sufficiently served at the off ice of the Company, and the Local Office of the Union at least sixty (60) days priorto the expiry date of the Agreement.
If no agreement is reached at the expiration of this Agreement, and notice to commence collective bargaining has been served, the existingAgreement shall remain in effect until a new Agreement is reached or until thirty (30) days after the Minister notifies the Parties of the recommendations of the Disputes Inquiry Board underthe Alberta LabourAct, and to continue thereafter until discontinued in writing by either Party.
year, unless sixty (60) days' written
52
Dated this_
day d {JufUst_A. D. 19?3
Canadian Forest Products Ltd Grande Prairie Operations
53
SUPPLEMENTS WAGE SCHEDULE
NADIAN FOREST PR- J SLTC GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS
Group 1
Cleanup
Warehouse
Mar. 1/98 Mar. 1/99
19.86	20.25
19.86	20.25
Group 2
Strip Attendant	19.94	20,34
Serviceman	19.94	20,34
Group 3
Paperwrap Attendant	20,03	20.43
Group 4
J-Bar Attendant SM J-Bar Attendant PM Chip Classifier/Cleanup
20.18	20.58
20.18	20.58
20.18	20.58
Group 5
Tilt Hoist OpTTrimmer Unscrambler Operator Firewatch/Cleanup • Trim BlockAttendantPM
20.28	20.69
20.28	20,69
20.28	20.69
20.28	20.69
GROW 6
Band Resaw PM	20.45	20.86
GROUP 7
Nil	20.57	20.99
GROW 8
Planner Feeder Weigh Scale Operator
Strapper/Endpress
20.79	21.20
20.79	21.20
20.79	21.20
Mar 1/20QP
20.66
20.66
20.74
20.74
20.84
21.00
21.00
21.00
21.10
21.10
21.10
21.10
21.28
21.40
21.63
21.63
21.63
54
GROUP!)
Stacker Operartor SM Stacker Operartor PM
Mar1/98 Mar 1/99
20.97	21.39
20.97	21.39
GROW 10
Trimmer Optimizer	21.15	21.57
Reman Edger Optimizer	21.15	21.57
GROUP 11
Nil	21.35	21.78
GROUP 12 Oiler
Sawmill Utility Cutoff Saw Operator Forklift Op-Shipping Forklift Op-PM Outfeed Forklift Op-SMOutfeed Forklift Op-PM Infeed Planer Utility Lumber Yard Cleanup
21.57	22.01
21.57	22.01
21.57	22.01
21.57	22,01
21.57	22.01
21.57	22.01
21.57	22.01
21.57	22.01
21.57	22.01
GROUP 13
MerchandiserOperator	21.78	22.21
Debarker Operator	21,78	22,21
GROUP 14
20' CNS Operator Single Band Resaw SM Kiln Forklift Operator
GROUP 15 Log Scaler
21.99	22.43
21.99	22.43
21.99	22.43
22.23	22.67
GROUP 16
LogLoader/980Op 28" CNS Operator Log Yard Cleanup
22.50	22,95
22.50	22.95
22.50	22.95
Marl, 2000
21.81
21.81
22.00
22.00
22.21
22.45
22.45
22.45
22.45
22.45
22.45
22.45
22.45
22.45
22.66
22.66
22.88
22.88
22.88
23.13
23.41
23.41
23.41
55
Mar 1/98 Mar 1/99
GROW 17
Nil	22.73	23.18
GROUP 18
Nil	22.97	23.43
GROUP 19
Nil	24.21	24.69
GROUP 20
Nil	23.47	23.94
GROW 21
Quality Control Asst.	23.72	24,20
Planer Grader/Trimmer	23.72	24.20
GROUP 22
Portal Crane Operator	24,00	24.48
MISCELLANEOUS CATEGORIES
Planerman/PM/FJ	24.18	24.66
Mill Handyman (Maint)	25,33	25,84
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT Electrician Cert Electrician
Apprentices -4th year Apprentices -3rd year Apprentices -2nd year Apprentices -1st year Mechanic Certified Mechanic
Apprentices -4th year Apprentices -3rd year Apprentices -2nd year Apprentices -1st year Millwright Certified Millwright
Apprentices -4th year Apprentices -3rd year
25.860	26.375
25.355	25.860
23.520	23.990
21.880	22.320
21.350	21.775
21.065	21.485
25.860	26.375
25.355	25.860
23.520	23.990
21.880	22.320
21.350	21.775
21.065	21.485
25.860	26.375
25.355	25.860
23.520	23.990
21.880	22.320
Mar 1/2000
23.64
23.90
25.19
24.42
24.68
24.68
24.97
25.16
26.35
26.905
26.375
24.470
22.765 22.210
21.915
26.905
26.375
24.470
22.765 22.210
21.915
26.905
26.375
24.470
22.765
56
Mar1/98 Mar 1/99
Apprentices -2nd year Apprentices -1st year Welder- B Pressure Ticket Welder Certified Welder
Apprentices -3rd year Apprentices -2nd year Apprentices -1 st year Partsman (with ticket) Partsman
Apprentices -3rd year Apprentices -2nd year Apprentices -1st year Filer
Sawfiler
Apprentices -4th year Apprentices -3rd year Apprentices -2nd year Apprentices-:! st year Machinist Certified Machinist
Apprentices -4th year Apprentices -3rd year Apprentices -2nd year Apprentices -1st year Grinder Man Trade Utility#1 Trade Utility#2 Crane Maintenance Welder Millwright
21.350	21,775
21.065	21.485
25.680	26.195
25.630	26.145
25.125	25.630
23.520	23.990
21.880	22.320
21.065	21.485
25.630	26.145
25.125	25.630
23.520	23.990
21.880	22.325
21.065	21.485
25.860	26.375
25.355	25,860
23.520	23.990
21.880	22,320
21.350	21.775
21.065	21.485
25.860	26.375
25.355	25.860
23.520	23.990
21.880	22.320
21.350	21.775
21.065	21,485
22.450	22.900
22.450	22.900
21.930	22.370
25.635	26.150
25.860	26.375
Marl, 2000
22.210
21.915 26.720
26.670
26.145
24.470
22.765
21.915
26.670
26.145
24.470 22.770
21.915
26.905
26.375
24.470
22.765 22.210
21.915
26.905
26.375
24.470
22.765 22.210
21.915
23.360
23.360 22.815 26.675
26.905
Chargehand: Job rate plus $0.22 (22 cents) per hour
57
SUPPLEMENT#2
ARTICLE 24 - PENSION PLAN
BETWEEN:	CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGYAND PAPERWORKERS
UNION OF CANADA, Local446
The parties agree that the following guidelines will be used in the administration
of the Pension Plan.
1.	All employee members of the Union will be members of the Plan subject to provision 5 below.
2.	The parties agree that effectivethe first day of March, 1993, the benefit levels shall be thirty-five dollars ($35.00)per monthfor each year of past service for eligible employees.
Effective the first day of September, 1994, the benefit levels shall be forty dollars ($40.00) per month for each year of past service for eligible employees.
3.	Effective March 1, 2000, the Company agrees to a Pension Bridge of Fifteen dollar ($15.00) per month per year of service for any employee retiring on or after their fifty-fifth (55th) birthday, to be paid at age sixty (60) or upon retirement if after the age of sixty (60) and to continue until age sixty-five (65).
4.	Normal retirement shall be at the age of sixty-five (65) years.
5.	A vested employee member may elect early retirement with no reduction in earned pension after he/she has passed his/her sixtieth (60th) birthday. A vested employee member may elect early retirementwith an actuarily reduced pension after he/she has passedhis/her fifty-fifth (55th) birthday.
6.	Subject to provisions below, an employee will bevested when he/she hasfive
E.&O.E
58
(5) years of continuous service or in accordance with the Province of Alberta legislated requirements,whichever is less.
7.	For the purpose of this plan, service is considered to be continuous until a member fails to work six hundred forty (640) hours in two (2) consecutive calendar years. Banked hours will not extend continuous service,
8.	If an employee who is vested has a break in service prior to retirement, that employee will receive a deferred vested pensionwhen that employee retires. The pension will be based on the employee's service before the break in service and at the benefit levels in effect at the time of the employee's break in service.
If that employee should later return to employment with the Company, that employee will also receive credit for all service after the break. The amount of pensionthat the employee will receivewill be based on the rate in effect each time that there was a break in service.
9.	To receive a full year's credit, an employee must accumulate fifteen hundred
(1,500)	pensionable hours in a calendar year. Pensionable hours shall include:
a.	Worked hours, including overtime hours, Overtime hours are credited at straight time.
b.	Firefighting hours up to a maximum of eight (8) hours in a day and forty (40) in a week.
c.	Apprenticeship hours spent attending school on an apprenticeship program.
d.	Short shifts. Employees who, because of their work schedule, work less than eight (8) hours per day but are paid eight (8) hours per day shall be credited eight (8) hours per day.
E.&O.E.
59
In any year where an employee accumulates more than fifteen hundred
(1.500)	pensionablehours as described in parts (a),(b),(c) and(d) able, hours in excess of fifteen hundred (1,500) will be banked. In years in which an employee does not work fifteen hundred (1,500) hours, the banked hours may be usedto bringthe total hours worked during that year up to fifteen hundred
(1.500)	hours, Banked hourswill also be used when an employee retires if he has not accumulated fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in his last year of work. Banked hours cannot be usedto delay a break inservice.
The following shall also be considered as pensionable hours. These hours may not be banked, but may be used when an employee has used all of his/her banked hours:
a.	Layoffs. If a full-time employee is laid off for one(1) or more full weeks, he/she will receiveforty (40) hours credit for each week up to a maximum of two hundred (200) hours per year.
b.	Illness or injury. If an employee is in receipt of wage loss benefitsfrom the Workers' Compensation Board or Weekly Indemnity benefitsfor a disability that occurred off the job, he/she will receive a credit of eight (8) hoursfor each day he/she receivesbenefits. The maximum credit shall be fifteen hundred(1,500) hours peryear.
c.	Total and Permanent Disability. Ifan employee is totally and permanently disabled, he/she will becreditedwith one hundredtwenty-five (125) pensionablehours per month upon providing proof of the disability. These credits will continue until the employee recoversor begins to receive a pension, whichever happens first. If an employee is disabled and cannot continue to work at the Grande Prairie lumber mill but is capable of working elsewhere, he/she will not receive any further pension credits afterhis/her Workers' Compensation or Long Term Disability benefits stop.
d.	Vacation. Ifan employee iseligiblefor morethanfive (5)weeks annual vacation, he/she will receiveforty (40) hours credit for each week afterthe fifth (5th) week.
E.& O.E.
60
10.	The following shall apply to those plan members who made contributionsto the plan at its inception:
a. If a participant's employment is terminated with the Company prior to the employee’s retirement date, the employee will be entitled to a refund of his/her contributions with interest in accordance with the established interest tables of the plan. If the employee has completed five (5) or more years of credited service with the Company, he/she may elect to leave his/her contributions in the plan and receive on his/her normal retirement date under the plan a deferred pension in accordance with the pension benefit levels in effect at the time of the employee's termination.
11.	All other requirementsof the administration of the plan will be determined in accordance with the applicable pension legislation of the Province of Alberta or the Government of Canada.
12.	The Company will provide each plan member with a statement of the employee's standing within the pian once each year. This statement shall includea record of the hours accumulated during the past year and a summary of credits from previous years.
13.	The Parties agree that this supplement replaces all previous Letters of Understanding regardingthe Pension Plan and that all previous Lettersof Understanding regardingthe Pension Plan are hereby cancelled.
E.&O.E.
61
14.	The Company and (he Union agree to establish a Joint Committee to explore,
during the term of this agreement/alternate pension systems or changes to the plan that may includeemployee contributions.
15.	THATfour (4) employees who retire during the course of this Agreement, will
receive a pension benefit level of Forty-twodollars ($42.00) per month per year of service, unless as a result of agreed to pension amendments resultingfrom the Pension Plan Joint Committee review, the level is above the Forty-Two dollars ($42.00), then they would receive that level of benefit.
Dated this
day of
AD 199?
Canadian Forest ProductsUd
/?6zfaJrtaf
E.&O.E
62
SUPPLEMENTS
SAWMILL AND PLANER UTILITY POSITIONS
BETWEEN: CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTSLTD.
Grands Prairie Operations
AND' COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446
The following terms and conditionswill apply to the positionsof Sawmill Utility and Planer Utility in regards to the starting wage group and the manner in which successful applicants must progress through the multiple positions involved :
1.	SAWMILL UTILITY
(a)	Startingrate is basedon the debarker group. If the Debarker group should
change, the Sawmill Utility starting rate would change accordingly.
(b)	Withinthree months the successfulapplicantmust have qualifiedfor the
following key sawmill positions:
-	Trimmer
-	Bin Sorter
-	Stacker
-	Boardedger
-	De barker
-	Resaw
-	20' Chip-N-Saw
E.&O.E
63
Qualifications for other positions may be pursued over an indefinite period f ti but are not required to continue in the Sawmill Utility position.
{<	co ii jobs with a is grouptnan « ar ;e will not be
ognize i until all lowi gi F j< have been learned. As soon as } lificati i is achieved for lower: group jobs training will begin on higher group jobs.
As qualification for higher group jobs is achieved the higher group will become the full time pay rate for this individual in the Sawmill Utilityjob. Qualification in positionssuch as Merchandiser, Cutoff Saw, and 28” CNS will be recognized in pay rate even though these qualificationsare not required to qualify for the Utilityposition.
(d) Positions not consideredthe pari of the Sawmill (Jfility job:
-	Crane operator.
-	980 operator.
2.	PLANER UTILITY
(a)	Starting Group rate, and the highestgroup available, for the Planer Utility
positionwill be consistent with the forklift positions, currently Group #12. Ifthe gnoupforthe planer infeed forklift or outfeed forklift should change then the Planer Utility group rate would change accordingly.
(b)	Within three months the successful applicant would be requiredto train
and qualify for the following positions :
-	Tilthoist.
-	Bin attendant.
-	Planer stacker.
-	Bander.
-	PlanerOutfeed
E&O.E
64
(c)	Positions not considered part of the PlanerUtility position:
-	Kiln attendant.
-	LumberGrader.
3.	GENERAL NOTES
(a) If an operator in either the Sawmill Utility or Planer Utility positionsis
requiredto work in a capacity which has a higher group than that which is recognized in the Utility position, then the higher group would be paid only for the duration of such work.
<b) If during the initialthree month training period an individualis unableto qualifyfor a position which is required in the Utilityjob then that individual would return I o his/her previously held bidjob.
Dated this _
day of /lu ^	199 *7
Communications, Energy and
E.& O E
65
SUPPLEMENT #4
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK SCHEDULE - MAINTENANCE
BETWEEN:	RADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD
i	Prai Ope ions
AND	COMMUNICATIONS. ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERSUNION OF CANADA, Local 446
1.	PREAMBLE
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide a weekend maintenance shift that will allow the Company to perform maintenance duringperiods when the productionfacility is not operating.
Except and unless specifically varied herein, all of the terms and conditions of the 1992 Coliective Agreement between the parties shalt apply.
The parties agree that the implementationandcontinuedoperalion of this schedule will not result in any reduction of the present maintenance workforce.
2.	HOURS OF WORK
The established hours of work shall be:
Friday:	Eightandone-half(6 1/2) hours- 7:00 a.m.to3:30 p.m
Eightand one-half (61/2) hours paid at ten (10} hours straight time.
Saturday:	Twelve{12) hours-6:00 a.m. to 6:00 pm.
Twelve(12) hours paid at straightlime raie
E & O.E
66
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK SCHEDULE-MAINTENANCE(cont'd)
Sunday: Twelve (12) hours-6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Twelve (12) hours paidat rate and one-half.
3.	OVERTIME
Rate and one-half shall be paidfor any hours worked in excess of eight and one-half (81/2) hours per day on Friday.
Double straight time rates shall be paid for any hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day on Friday.
Double straighttime rates shall be paidfor any hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per day on Saturdayor Sunday.
4.	OVERTIME MEALS
Overtime meals shall be providedwhen requiredin accordancewith Article VIII, Section 10 of the Collective Agreement.
5.	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
All hours worked are consideredas Day Shift if scheduled between the hoursof6:00 a.m. and6:00p,m.
All hoursworkedoutsidethe recognized Day Shift will be considered as the Secondor Third Shifts, and the premium rate of thirty-one cents ($.31) per hourwill be paidfor all such hours.
E.aO.E.
67
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK SCHEDULE - MAINTENANCE
(cont’d)
6.	LUNCH PERIODS
Lunch periods shall be of one-half (1/2) hour duration and shall betaken at a time suitable to the employee and the company.
7.	REST PERIODS
There shall be two (2) ten (I0) minute rest periods on Friday and three (3) ten (I0) minute rest periods on Saturday and Sunday, to betaken at a time suitable to the employee and the company.
8.	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Inthe eventthat a Statutory Holidayfallson a scheduled work day, it may bemovedtothe Fridayas selected bythe employee. The employee shall receiveeight{8) hours payfor his regular hours of work misseddue to the Statutory Holiday
Inthe eventthat a Statutory Holidayfalls on an employee's scheduled day off, he shall be paideight (8) hours at his regular straight-time rate of payor shall have the option (f taking a scheduled work day off in lieu paid at eight (8) hours straighttime pay.
Inthe event an employee is called into work on his designated Statutory, Floatingor Personal FloatingHoliday, he shall be paid at the premium rates in accordancewith the Collective Agreementfor all hours worked on that day.
E.&O.E.
68
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK SCHEDULE- MAINTENANCE
(cont’d)
9.	VACATIONS WITH PAY
Vacation pay shall be calculated as per the Collective Agreement.
An employee who is scheduledto work in any week and who is on vacation shall befreated as having taken one(1) week's vacation entitlementfor each one (1 > week's scheduled work
10.	HEALTH AND WELFARE, MEDICAL, DENTAL, ETC.
An employeewho is scheduledto work underthis scheduleshall continue to be classified as a regular, full-time employee for all Health and Welfare, Medical, Dental, etc., eligibility purposes.
The word "day" or "days" where it appears to stipulate any period shall be considered as multiplesof eight (8) hour units (i.e. one (1) day equals eight (8)hours and four (4) deys equals thirty-two (32)h ours).
11.	PENSION PLAN, LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
The Comp	ir contribution to the	ens ii Pla i and	the Long '<
Disability!	Ii foran* nployee	iowi <s tf e esti	t lish dh	d<
this schedule shall be a minimum of forty (40) hours	per week or one (1)
hour ft	ih \ r part thereof	'ked, wh I e	is greater.
The	ip y rh	workstf blhl io unc this schedule h	II
i it	ut€ t<	the f	e PI	or he Long Term Disability Plan on the
basis of forty (40) hours per week
E.&O.E.
69
COMPRESSEDWORK WEEK SCHEDULE- MAINTENANCE
(cont’d)
12.	LEAVE CF ABSENCE, BEREAVEMENT LEAVE, JURY DUTY
Leaves of Absence shall be in accordancewith the provisionsof the CollectiveAgreement.
Bereavement Leave under this schedule shall be paid at the maximum of twenty-four (24) hours pay at the employee's regular straight-time rate of pay.
Jury Duty reimbursementunderthisscheduleshall be based on hours that otheiwise would have been paid under this schedule.
70
COMPRESSEDWORK WEEK SCHEDULE -MAINTENANCE
(cont’d)
13.	SCHEDULING
The Company will draw up a list of all employeeswho would wish to work on the above schedule, and employeeswill be scheduledon the basis of seniority.
Employeesonthis list will rotate through the above scheduleevery four (4) months.
Employeesshall have the option of adding or removingtheir name from this list no more than two (2) times each calendaryear. When names are added to the list, they will appear afterthe name of the individual who was the last on the original list.
Only those trades specifically mentioned in this agreement will utilize this schedule: Millwrights, Welders, Electricians,Oilers.
71
Dated this
/ff*7 day of
A.D. 199_3_.
E.& O.E.
72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING SEASONAL JOB POSTING POLICY
BETWEEN:CANADIA* FOREPT Donnl ,rTC ‘ Tr
ftranffa Pr iJrle An
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNIONOF
CANADA Local 446
In order to maintain an efficient, well-trained workforce in seasonal positions, the following criteria will be used to award seasonal bids:
1. Seniority, competencyconsidered.
2	Competency to be defined as having previouslyheld thejob or having successfully completed training for that job.
Jobs currently considered as seasonal are.
1	Scale Operator
2	Log Scaler
3	980 Operator (additional)
4	Portal Crane Operator(additional)
In orderto ensure reasonableopportunity for personnelto enter into the Seasonal job group, ongoing training in thesejobswill be provided. Training will be provided fora minimum of one (1) of the above positionsper year. The positions trained will depend on the anticipated needs in future log haul seasons.
To be eligibleto train for the log scaler position, trainees must have valid Alberta ForestService log scalingqualifications. Opportunities will be made availableto acguireAFS qualification^,
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
VACATION RELIEF PERSONNEL
BETWEEN:	CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTSLTD,
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGYAND PAPERWORKERS
UNION OF CANADA, LOCAL446
li is (he objective of the Company and the Local Union io assist students c rren	on
the Jr i1 :it or T( ;h ii I Progri r to obtain 5 immer ipl r 9 it design d to
a.	helpthem financially through the following semester
b,	where possible, give work assignments that complement in some way their educational pursuits.
It is mutually agreed that the following principles will t applied in hiring vacation rli if personnel:
Consideration will be given c ) dj ees’ dependents based first on	il
fr< :l ool fir th folli i ig general order, first tc the casuals on	j
cleanup in t thre I f school
a	sit students
b.	> and Vocational school students
c.	High t dI student
Vaca relief will be hired as required by the company after consultation with the Local Executive in order that the vacation entitlement of hourly crews can be scheduled as far as possible within the prime period - May 1 to September 10
In tl event that particular circumstances r, it t that a stuaent ni return t school, he may be considered for a permanent job posting upon written request and fully discussing their reasons with (he Personnel Coordinator and Local Unii ir Pi ident. In the event that a Vacation Relief is retained f u permanent opening his seniority will be dated from the day of permanent employment.
Vacation Relief
Page2
Vacation Relief personnelwill be advised thatthey will be terminated on or before September 10, unless particularcircumstanceswarrant review, and hiring documentationwill reflect the above conditions. Inthe eventVacation Relief personnel were employed on the weekend casual crew during the school year, they can return with no loss of seniority.
This agreement shall be subjectto review, amendmentor termination upon thirty (30) days written notice by either party.
DATED this /S^ day of	________A.D. 1999
INDEX
absence, notification	17
advance notificationitechnological change	51
agreement 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9. 13, 17, 34, 35, 40, 42, 43,44, 47, 56, 61,62,63,64
agreement:duration alternate employment alternate shift schedules apprentices:trainlng apprenticeship agreement apprenticeship
agreemenfexpenses agreement:right to continue agreement:select>on ofapprentices agreemenlisuccessful applicants agreement:tests agreement;too[s agreementwage rates aprons arbitration
expenses
location
principles
bankedhours
52
SO
16
45
45
46
47 47 47 47 47 46 43
39
40 38 60
bargaining agency
5
Communications. Energyertd Paperworkers Union of Canada	6
recognilion	5
Union	6
benefits	8
b ereavem en tleave
compressed work week schedule boots, safety toed bulletin boards call lime
casual employees benefits cleanup coveralls hiring
hours ofwork maintenance to regularemployees vacation chargehand collective bargaining completion of Shifts compressed work week schedule bereavement
health andwelfere. medical.dental hours of work jury duty
28
70
44
49
12
1,7
8
7
8 9
8, 14
7
7
8 3
6, 9. 49 15
70
69
66
70
compressed work week schedule leaveofabsence longterm disability overtime overtime meals pension plan rest periods shift differential statutory holidays vacations with pay coniradng out cooperation coveralls definitions
chargehand complaint dispute gender grievance harassment party dentalplan direction of work disability;
compressed work week schedule longterm
management committee discrimination double straight©time rates dues, paymen!
employees:
regular
discipline
70	family assistance program
69	employee selection
07	employee survey committee
67	employees:
69	casual
68	personnelfiles
67	probation
68	regular
69	employment:
48	casual
1&0	chargehand
49	probationary regular
4	entry leveljob
4	equipment.
4	safety
4	expenses:
4	apprentice
4	arbitration
4	extendedhealthbenefits
42	eyewear, safely prescription
4	family assistance program fatal accident
69	firefighting
42	floating holidays
50	floating holldays:entltlement
5	generalprovtslons:
14	letters of understanding
7	supplements
gloves
grading permits 13	grading tickets
5
43
5
2
7
S
3
6, 8,19 3 3 3 3 3
22
43
46
39
40
44
43 37 57 32 32 49 49 49
44 10 10
grievance:
abandonment committee procedure health and welfare hiring:
casual employees holidays: floating personal statutory hours of work
advance notification of return to work
alternate shift schedules
casual employees
completion of shifts
designation of shifts
double straight&ime rates
maintenance
meals
millwrights
production employees repair and construction employees three©shift operation watchmen insurance:
accidental death & dismemberment
cost
life
tools
job classifications job posting
job training
job vacancies:	23
permanent	23
temporary	23
jury duty:	28
compressed work week schedule 70 leave of absence:	26
bereavement	28
compressed work week schedule 70 education	26
extended vacations	29
general principles	26
injury or illness	27
jury duty	26
maternity leave	29
other	30
paternity leave	29
public office	29
union business	27
letters of understanding	49, 72
light duty program	50
log scalers	12
long term disability	42
lumber graders and log scalers	12
lunch & rest periods	17
lunch periods:	66
compressed work week schedule	66
management:emp1. selection and discipline 5 management warnings	5
maternity leave	29
meals	17
medical examinations	49
meetings:	27
committee, outside regular hours 38
38
37
37
40 & 69
9
9
32
32
30
13
16
17
7, 14
15
15
14
14 &66
17
14
13
14
16
14
40
40
41
40
48
9
22
22
company	2
joint health & safety committee	36
union	27
voluntary	2
membership	6
millwrights, hours	14
ninehourshifts	16
non©members, discharge	6
notlflcaSon <f absence	17
occupational health	36
compensation	37
fetal accident	37
joint health^ safety committee	36
principles	36
outside employees	5
overtime	13,15,17,28,54.67
overtime meals	67
compressed work Week schedule	67
paternity leave	29
paydays	10
pay:
donationscommittee	2
EFAP committee	2
safely committee and safely subcommittee meetings	2
pensionplan:	44,58
apprenticeship	59
banked hours	60
break in service	59
bridge	58
company contribution	58
compressed work Week schedule	64
credit	69
firefighting hours illness or injury cn termination overtime retirement service short shins statement
total and permanentdisability vacation
vested employee permanentjob vacancies permanent vacancies personnel files
planer utility posltlomgeneral notes
plant closure
premium rates
probation employee
probation period
production employees, hours
public office
purpose
rain suits
rate protection
recall
recognition
red circle
reduction of forces tqjiijn- employee
retirement
return ta work. notification safety:
equipment and clothing
59
60 61 59
58
59
59 61 BO
60 59
23
24 5 64 51
10, 63 3 3 13 29 1
43
10
21
5
49
20
5, 8, 19 58 18 43 43
compensation fatal accident
joint health & safety committee principles sew Were
sawmM utility positionrgenefal noes
scheduHng:compressed work week seasonal job posting seniority:
application
departments
emergency
frozen
lists
plant
principle
probation period
recall
reduction of tones
retention
transfer to staff
service:
breakin service continuous severance pay:
tectmofogfcaf change shift designation shift differential:
compressedwork week schedule shift:
first regularlyscheduled
/asfregularlyscheduled	31
nine hour	16
unique	16
shop steward	5, 36
statutory holidays	30
compressed work week schedule 68 first regularly scheduled	31
graders'premiums	11
last regularlysheduled shift	31
shift differential	11
supervisors, working	5
suspension	5
technological change:	51
advance notification	61
rate adjustment	52
severance pay	51
temporary job vacancies	23
three©shift operation	16
tools
insurance	48
apprentice	47
journeyman	47
trad esm an prem i urn s	10
transferto staff	22
union secunty:	6
cooperation	6
union shop	5,6
union'
application for membership	6
check©off forms	7
discharge of non©members	6
37
37
36
36
2S
63
66
72
18
19
19
20
21
22
19
19
18
21
20
21
22
59
59
51
51
15
67
67
31
dues payment
fails to maintain membership leaveof absence notification unique shifts vacancies vacation:
compressed work v/eek schedule
extended
jury duty
pay
sickness or illness
time included lorvacation entitlement with pay
vested employee wage schedule wages:
apprentice call time
casual employee lumber graders and log scalers lunch& rest periods noticecf cancellation notification of absence pay days premiumrates rateprotection
suspended or discharged employee wage rate determination wage scale
welders	12
warnings	5
watchmen, hours	14
weekly indemnity	39
welders	2, 12
7
6
26
39
16
24
69
29
28
8
25
35
33
58
44
9
46
12
12
12
17
11
17
10
10
10
39
9
9