AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL
(hereinafter referred to as the 'Company')
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND ITS LOCAL31-X
(hereinafter referred to as the 'Union')
Covering the Period September 1, 2000 to August 31, 2005
00960 (07)
CONTENTS
Article I Article n Article III Article IV Article V Article VI Article VII Article VIII Article IX Article X Article XI Article XII Article XIII Article XIV
Article XV Article XVI Article XVII Article XVin Article XIX Article XX
Purpose........................................1
Period.........................................1
Recognition and Jurisdiction...................1
Rates and Classifications......................2
Union Membership...............................3
Vacations With Pay.............................4
Holidays Wth Pay...............................5
Adjustment of Grievances.......................7
No Strike • N) Lockout.........................9
Working Conditions.............................9
Hours of Work..................................11
Seniority......................................14
Bulletin Boards................................16
Healthand Welfare............................  16
14:01 Weekly Indemnity.........................17
14:02 Long Term Disability.....................17
14:03 Group Life Insurance.....................19
14:04 Medical, Surgical, Drug
& Hospital Care Plans...................20
14:05 Dental Care Plan.........................21
14:06 Vision Care Plan.........................21
14:07 Benefitsat Lay Off.......................22
Pension Plan...................................22
Bereavement Pay................................24
Jury Duty......................................25
Leave of Absence...............................25
Severance Pay..................................25
Apprenticeship Plan............................26
Article XXI - Automation and Technological Change................	29
Schedule "A" Trades Training - Schedule of Wage Rates............28
Schedule "B" Occupation Codes, Rates, Dates........................30
Schedule "C" Union Seniority List..................................32
Schedule "D" Lettersof Understanding
1.	Vtfeekend Maintenance Schedule
2.	Filling Job Postings re Article 12:07
3.	Lay Off and Recall After Lay Off
4.	floating Holidays
5.	Coveralls
6.	DisputedW.S.I.B. Claims
7.	Weekly Indemnity
8.	Meals
9.	Electrical Maintenance
10.	Posted Back-Up Positions
11.	Climatic Controls
12.	Hours of Work
13.	Overtime Distribution
14.	Overtime Welding
15.	Lumber Graders
16.	Management of the Labour Pool
17.	Management of Technological Change
18.	Extended Production Schedule
19.	Four Crew Maintenance Schedule
20.	Job Groupings
21.	Severance Pay
22.	Special Downsizing Retirement Window
38
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
54
55
57
58
59 61 63 65 67
Schedule "E" General Information
INDEX
Article__________Ease
Adjustment of Grievances Apprenticeship Plan Automation
Automation and Technological Change
Benefits at Lay Off
Bereavement Leave
Bulletin Board
Call outs
Climatic Controls
Compassionate Leave
Contracting Out
Coveralls
Dental Plan
Disputed WSIB Claims
Education Fund
Electrical Maintenance
Exchange of Shifts
Floating Holidays
Grievance Procedure
Hours of Work
Job Postings
Joint Health &. Safety Committee Joint Health &. Safety Conference Jurisdiction
Jury Duty, Crown Witness,
Subpoenaed Witness Leaves of Absence Letters of Understanding Life Insurance Long Term Disability Meals
Membership New Job Classifications Pension Plan Period of Agreement Posted Back Up Positions Probationary Period Purpose of Agreement Recognition
Safety Equipment and Apparel Semi-Private Hospital Care
VIII
XX
XII
XXI
m
XVI
XIII
XI
XVI
III
X
XIV
X
XI VII
VIII
XI
XII X X III
XVII
XVIII
XIV
XIV
V
IV
XV
II
XII
I
III
X
XIV
7
26
16
29
22
24
16
13
49
24 1
11
21
44
9
47 12 42 7 11 40
9
10 1
25 25 25 37
19 17 46 3 2
22
1
48 15 1
1
10
20
INDEX
	Article	Paae
Seniority	XII	14
Seniority Ranking		32
Severance Pay	XIX	25
Shift Differential	XI	12
Shift Workers Schedule	XI	12
Statutory Holidays	VII	5
Trades Tools	X	10
Trades Training - Schedule of Rates		28
Union Membership	V	3
Vacations With Pay	VI	4
Vision Care Pian	XIV	21
Wage Schedule		30
Weekend Maintenance		62
Weekly Indemnity	XIV	16
ARTICLE I-PURPOSE
1:01 The purpose of this Agreement Is to secure forte Company and the Union tie Ml benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages and working conditions as specified 1 Articles of this Agreement and to secure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operations, quality and quantity of output and protection of property, This Agreement mcrewer seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise bek/veen the partes. It Is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
1:02 Throughout this Agreement; use of the masculine gender shall be considered also to include the feminine.
ARTICLEII ■ PERIOD
2:01 The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Artides of this Agreement from September 1* 2000 to August 31*, 2005 indusive, and from year to year thereafter unless either patty desires to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case, the patty desiring the change or termination shall notify the other patty, in writing, within ninety (90) days prior to August 31st of the particular year that such is its desire. Either patty opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party, in writing, astothechangesdesired.
ARTICLEI1I - RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION
3:01 (a) TheCompany recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all its employeesemployed by the Company on its operations in NairnTownship.
For the purpose of this Artide, employees shall be all those employed on the job dassifteatdons set cut on the Wage Schedule attached to and forming part of the Ageenient including those who are engaged on job classifications which may be established and become part of the Wage Schedule during the term of the Agreement This provision exdudes: Shift Supervisor, persons above the rank of Shift Supervisor, Salas, Office Staff and Security Personnel.
3:01 (b) The employees of contractors engaged on operations of the Company In Naim Township shall be considered employees within te terms of this Ageement save and except the employees of contractors and/or contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with acentral labourbody covering such work The Unionwill be advised at least two (2) weeks in advance of any Company plans to “contract out work" except in the case of a genuine emergency.
1
3:02 (a) Supervisory personnel, Refef Production Supervisor while replacing Production Shift Supervisors, which includes contractors, whose employees are consideredto be employees under this Agreement ^ not perform wori< which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employeesand incases of emergency which Involve physical danger to employees or danger to property. The Company further agrees that lie Relief Production Supervisorwill not be allowed to administer disciplinary action a5 per Article 8:11.
3:02 (b)	The Company will not contract out repair and maintenance work which is normally
performed by the maintenance crew, for which the mill is equipped, for which crews are available and which employees are capable of performing, The Company agrees to pay the defined Union dues for all contractors who performwork normally performed by membersof the bargaining unit as well as capital work projects on this site, Any contractors employing the following trades; millwrights, mahanics, electricians, carpenters and/or welders will be inducted in this payment d Union dues.
3:03 It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as the result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union affiliated with toe C.L.C. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the reg u lationscoveri ng such matters $ fixed by the C.L.C. and the Company will not be asked to act upon any matter of jurisdiction between organizations of the C.L.C.
ARTICLE IV - RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4:01 The Wage Schedule is attached hereto and forms a part of this Agreement
4:02 If, during the life of this Agreement, a significant change in the job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached Wage schedule, the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement, the matter may be referred to Stage III of the Grievance Procedure,
4:03 Fcr job classifications rot listed in the attached V\hge schedule, the Company shall set a temporary wage rate. Where the Company has prior knowledge of the necessity for establishing a new job classification, the Company will notify the Union, in writing, at least two (2) weeks in advance, and if the Union requests, the Company will discuss the applicable rates and conditions prior to the commencement of the new job, Where circumstances require immediate and unforeseen establishment of a new job dassification, the Company will notify the Union, in writing, immediately.
Any such rates will be based on comparison with the prevailing rate for similar and/or related occupationsin the attached Wage Schedule.
2
After a thirty (30) day trial period any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Union and, after such agieement is reached, it shall to become a part of the Wage schedule and be attached thereto. It is understood that the thirty (30) day period can be extended by mutual consent of the parties. Upon failure to teh agieementon a rate or rates, the matter may be referred to Stage m of the Grievance Procedure. Rates when established shall be retroactive to fe date of establishment of the new job classifications.
the Company vtfen combining job classifications covered by the Collective Agreement agee that the senior employee^) of the Jobs which have been combined shall receive first consideration and shall receive a training period as describedln Article 12:07(e).
ARTICLE V ■ UNION MEMBERSHIP
5:01 Any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of fe Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agieement The Union shel be the sole judge $ to whether an employee is a member in good standing and shall nobly the Company promptly of any change i n the standing of any such employee.
5:02 (a) Wien hiring new employees, subject to the skil and ability of the applicants to perform the work required of them, the Oompanywlll give preferenceto Union members
If Union membersdo not apply the Company shall have the tight to employnon-Unlon help,
The Company agrees to ad/ise the Union from time to time of its labour requirements.
5:02 (b) Ne/v employees shall make application to join fe Union when first approached to
do so by a duly authorized Union official. The Company shall upon hiring, advise ail new employees to report to the Financial Secretary within ten (10) days of commenting work Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be case for immediate termination of
employment.
5:03 (a) The Company will deduct from all employees covered by tie Labour Agieement from monies due them and remit to the Union, initiation fees and/or weekly membership dues but notifies, assessments or other levies.
5:03 (b) Deductions so made wi be remitted to the Union waeky, said remittance to be accompanied by itemized lists In alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names with Christian names as payrolled. A copy of the 1st will be given by the Company to the Financial Secretary of the Union or his representative,
5:03 (c) Yearly Unton dues deductions will be shewn on theT-4 slips,
5:04 Union representatives shall have the right to visit the operation in connection with Union business. Such representatives shall report to the Personnel Supervisor or Operations Manager on arrival,
3
5:05 The Union shal furnish the Company with the listing of local Union officers and shall amend these lists promptly as changes occur. Failure to advise the Company of such changes will not In any way affect the authority of the Union officers.
5:06 The Company wl furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of eecti monh The amended list will show the effective date of the changes Failureto advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors,
ARTICLE VI - VACATIONS WITH PAY
6:01 (a) Vacation pay shall be peti to each employee by cheque to be Issued at the time of termination or when tie vacation is taken. Vacation pay shall be paid to each employee by
separatecheque.
6:01 (b) Vacation pay credits shall be paid to each employee on the following basis:
(1)	Four percent(4%) of gross earningsfor employees who have worked less than four (4) years in one period of employmentwith the Company.
(2)	Six percent (6%) of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than four (4) years, but less than ten (10) years in one periodofemploymentwith the Company.
(3)	Eight percent (8%) of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than ten (10) years, but less than eighteen (18) years in one period of employment.
(4)	Ten percent (10%)of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than eighteen(18) yeaisbut less than twenty-live (25) years in any one period of employment.
(5)	Twelve percent(12%) of gross earnings for employees who havewoiked more than twenty-five (25) years.
(6)	I n the case of employees whose period of employment dates back to lune 1, 1963, their years of service shal be calculated as from June 1st, 1963. I n the eas of employees whose period of employment started after lune 1st, 1963, years of service 3rd be calculated from date of hiring. Status of present employees is as shewn on Schedule *C" attached.
(!) Employees will be paid one normal weds earnings at their regular rate of pay for each week of vacation or 2% of gross earnings in the previous calendar years, whichever is greater. Employees must havewoiked at least750 hours during each calendar year. Time off due to compensable accidents shall be considered as time worted.
4
6:02 A period of employment is defined for purpose of this Agreement as:
(a)	I n the case of an employee who has established seniority as a period during which he maintainshls accrued seniority,
(b)	Hithecaseof a probationary employee $ a period not broken by a leave or an absence of more than three (3) working days, excepting layoff.
6:03 An employee who has been continually employed for one year shall take vacation time off at a time which is satisfactory to the employee and the Company. Each two percent (2%>) of vacation pay credit shall entitle an employee to one (1) week of time off each year.
6:04 Vacation schedules will be completed by March 35th and vacations wi be confirmed and posted by April 35th of each year.
6:05 Vacation requests made after March 35th will be confirmed as soon as possible but in no case later than one month after the request.
6:06 M employees will be Instructed on August 35 to schedule any outstanding vacations at a time satisfactory to him and his supervisor Employees who have not scheduled their outstandingvacation by September 15 will have it assigned by the Company.
6.07 NEW When economically feasible a plant vacation shutdown of one week will be scheduled each year at Christinas, The Companywill advise the Union on March 1* of each year of the proposed vacation shutdown, where applicable
ARTICLE VII ■ HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7:01 Employees who have acquired senioriy status by having completed their probationary period shall be qualified to be paid without the performance of woric for the following holidays:
New Years CBy Good Friday , Victoria Day
Canada CBy Civic Holiday
Labour CBy Thanksgiving Eqr Remembrance CBy Christmas CBy Boxing Day
Wien any of tie above holidays fsl on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday and If the holiday falls on Sunday it will be observed on the following Monday.
Canada Day and Remembrance CBy may be observed on Friday or Monday with mutual agreementbetween parties.
Remembrance CBy (November 33th) holiday will be observed during Christmas and New Yea's period, The shutdown day will be mutually ageed no laterthan September 1st each year. If agreement of the date is not reached by September 1st, the holiday will be observed on Novemberllth.
5
In addition, employees who have accumulated three (3) months seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidays per contract year (September 1stto August 31st) to betaken at a time satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor, Floating holidays not taken prior to My 1st in each year wil be schedded.
An employee who, by reason of layoff is prevented from taking his floating holiday(s) shall receive pay in lieu of such holiday®.
7:02 (a) An employeevtho has established seniority in accordance with Artide XU, iseligible for holiday pay provided:
(I)	He works his last scheduled shift priorto the holiday and first schsdded shift following the holiday, unless prevented by circumstances beyond his control, or
(ii)	I fan employee has worked any of the available work day; within the thirty (30) day; immediately prior to the holiday, is on authorized leave of absencewhen the holiday occurs, he shall receke holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during his absence, or
(iii)	An employee who Is obliged to cease work due to layoff during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period, or
(Iv) An employee who is obliged to case work due to S i or accident certified by a licensed practitioner' during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday shal receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period.
7:02 (b) Hourly paid employees will receive eight (8) times their hourly rate.
7:02 (c) I fan employee who qualifies under Ardde XII is recalled and works anytime during the fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately following the hoiiday(s), he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday(s),
7:03 Anemployeewhoisrequestedtoworkon any of the holidays in Section 7:01 shall be paid for all time worked at one and one-half times his regular rate up to eight (8) hours worked, and double time after eight (8) houis.
7:04 An employee on regdar vacation during a week in which a statutory holiday fells, shall have the option of havhg a day off v\ii pay at a time mutually convenient to the employee and his supervisorwithin the following 180 days or having the holiday pay added to his regular vacation pay. I f the employee elects not to defer his holiday payment he must advise Managementnot later than tai (10) days priorto the commencement of his vacation period.
6
ARTICLEVKI • ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8:01 It Is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of an employee be
adjusted as quickly as possible. It is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he hasgiven his shift supervisor an opportunity to adjust hiscomplaint. Priorto reducing a complaint to a grievance as per Article 8:03 the employee may request his shop Steward to be presentat any further discussion with his shift supervisor.
8:02 (a) The Gompany shall recognize the Grievance Committee which shall consist of the President, two executive officers arid at the discretion of the Grievance Committee the Steaaid involved.
It is understood that the Stewards and other Union officers shall not be absent from their regular duties In order to deal with a grievance without obtaining prior authorization from their shift supervisor, This permissionwill not be unreasonably withheld.
The Gompany agrees to pay members of the Grievance Committee for loss of wages for authorizedtime lost for handling of grievances.
The shop Stewards recognized by this Agreement shall be as follows:
a)	Planer Mill	(indude mobile equipment operators)
b) Largelog Mill	(indude mobi le equipment operators)
c)	Small Log Mill (indude mobileequipmentoperators)
d)	Processor & Yard (Indude mobile equipment operatorsS. garage)
e)	Maintenance	(indude electrical crew)
When the operating schedule for (a) to (d) consists of more than one shift there vtf be one Steward on each shift
8:02 (b) It is agreed that there shal be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards
tfteStewardsor Union Grievance Committee membersor other Union members.
8:03 A grievance under trie provision of this Agreement is defined to be any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the Interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
8:04 STEP I - Grievances as defined above shd be taken by the employee together
with the Union Steward having jurisdictico directly to the employee's immediate shift supervisor for adjustment. Any grievances submitted to the shift supervisor ii accordance with this procedure shall be in writing and will be disposed of by the shift supervisor in writing. Falling a satisfactory adjustmentwithin forty-eight (48) hours, then;
7
STEP II - The matter shall be taten up by a member of the Grievance Committee and the Steward having jurisdiction with the Area Superintendent and the H u m Resources Supervisor. This procedure shal be in writing and will be disposed of by the Area Superintendent and the Human ResourcesSupervisor within five (5) days, then;
STEP in • Within ten (10) days the matter shal be taken up by the Grievance Committee with the General Manager of fte Company or his representative. Falling a satisfactory
adjustment then;
STEP IV • Within fifteen (15) days the matter shall be presented to the Company by the Grievance Committeeand the National Representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then;
STEPV ■ Ether party may within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter
to Arbitration.
I n Arbitration, the Company and the Union shal each select one man; these two
(2)	shall select a third patty who shall act as Chairman. Either party shal appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nominata. The Arbitration Board's decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement In the event of the failure of the two (2) people selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall askthe Provincial Ministerof Labourto appoint a third patty.
Al time limits mentioned in the grievance procedure may be extended by mutual consent of the Company and the Union. I fa grievance is processed through to arbitration the Arbitration Board shall have the pcwto relieveagainstnoncompliance of time limits.
Nothing herein shall preventthe parties from mutually agreeing on a sole arbitrator to arbitrate grievancesarising out of this Agreement
8:05 It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shal be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shal deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall indude the power to consider adjustments to Individual job classifications under Section 4:02 and rates for job classifications under Section 4:03 and to revise the rates therefore. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8:06 Sundays, Statutory and Legal Holidays shall not be induded in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement
8:07 A grievance arising from a daim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms d this Agreement must be dealt with, in writing, by bioth parties and must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge a suspension becomes effective. Grievances dealing with suspension shall be processed from the second step. I n the case of suspension by the Company, the Company shall notify tie employee, in writing, ofthe ream for such suspension.
8
Discharge grievances will be processed beginning at Step in of the grievance procedure, The Company shall notify the employee, In writing, the reason for discharge.
I n the event that an employee Is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his job under terms and conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8:08 Each party to this Agreement shal pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by t or by the Minister of Labour and shall share equally In the fees and expensesof tie third member of the board,
8:09 Grievances which involve Company pofcy In respect to the Interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement may be processed commencing at Strain of this Grievance Procedure,
8:10 I f the Company has a grievance as defined In Section 8:03, It shall commence at Stgaffl of this Grievance Procedure by the General Manager or his representative presenting the matter, in writing, to the officers of the Union.
8:11 Employees to be disciplined (written warning, suspension or discharge) by the Company will be provided with Union representation. Wien an employee has been Indefinitely suspended from work, the parties wl endeavour to meet before the employee's next regular scheduled stilt or at a time agreeable to both parties. The Company will ajy the Union on all verbal warnings Issued.
The disciplinary reoord of an employee shall not be used for the purposes of establishing progressivedlsdpline after a period of twelve (12) months of wori< has lapsed without any other disciplinary infraction occurring.
I n cases Involving theft or sabotage, this discipline shall remain active for a period of three (3) years of work from the date of the Infraction.
ARTICLEIX ■ NO STRIKE • NO LOCKOUT
There shall be no strike caused, called, or supported by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLEX-WORKING CONDITIONS
10:01 (a) It Is agreed that the Company and the Union dial cooperate collectively In Improving safety and first aid practices, The Company and the Union agree to set ip and maintain a Joint Health & Safety Committeeto promote safe working conditions and practices, There will be at least two (2) meetings of tine Safety Committee each calendar quarter, The position of the Chairman shall alternate between a Company Cochairman and a Union Cochairman.
9
The (chairman of each meeting shall make a	in triplicate, ^copies going to the
Company office, the Union office, and the bulletin boards.
A member of the Committee Is entitled to such time off from his work as is ^necessary to attend imeetingngs of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be adeemed to be work time for which he shall be paid straight time while on shift or time and one half If off shift for all hours In a^boance at the safety meetings (all out time not applicable).
All required safety equipment (excluding safety boats) Is j^^ed at the em^ployee's induction, and on-the-job familiarization and safety training is	by immediate
supervisor.
10:01 (b)	The Company agrees that Local 31-X re^presentotives will attend all future E. B. Eddy
Forest Products Ltri./Communicaboas, Energy and Paperwi^ors Union Safety Con^^es. Six (6) (delegates from Local 31-X may attend the conference.	delegates will be compensated
for any loss of wages incurred as a result of attending the Conference
10:02 It is agreed that there shall be properly equipped first-aid kits su^iont for normal requirements, located on the oparation
10:03 The Company agrees to provide a statement for each weekly pay ^period to all emp^ees, showing all credits, dedi^uctions hours of work and the rate pen hour, ail hours w^ted at premium rate, and the type of work perfected by the employee during such pay ^period.
10:04 All hand tools and equipment required on the job will be imadle available to all employees on loan. When an operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a (mechanical repair job, he will be fumisped such tools as are required. All tools and equipment not returned will be charged for in full. Worn out or ^broken tools will be ^replaced with ^serviceable tools free of charge provided that the worn out or broken tools are returned. The Company will provide free Insurance against damage by fire or theft of ^tradesmen's tools ^normally required by ^tradesmen to the full r^lacement value of such tools. Employees will be required to furnish the same tools which were requited in the past. T^letimen, to be eligible for above insurance, must ^provide the Company with a list of their tools. Employees' damaped or broken tools must be ^reported to the supervisor and arrangements are made for r^ncement. The same policy applies to tools lost by fire or theft H^owever, there may be some delay in the replacement as we must in^vestigate the aroumstarnces.
10:05 The Company agrees that it will furnish on loan, all mandatory safety equipment and personal safety a^pparel save and except safety boats.
The Company further agrees to sell to employees safety boats at eighty-five dollars ($85,00) below invoice price to the Company.
The Company will subsidize all Debarker Operators $12.00 per pair for chainsaw safety pants pu^rchased.
10
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless It has teen agreed to by the Company and the Union or Is mandatory under Government legislation.
The Oompanywill provide quality work gloves forall employees.
10:06 With a mill-wide compulsory safety eyeglass policy, the company, will provide all safety glasses, Including industrial prescription safety glasses.
10:07 The Company agrees to supply cn ban, raincoats and oilers aprons, however, this shall not apply to normal personal Itas, sue/? as shoes, pants, etc.
10:08 The Company and the Union agree that Labour Management Consultation Meetings could be held on a monthly basis, unless drcumstances arise that would necessitate immediate meetings ar discussions on matters Involved. The purpose of these meetings will be to discuss with the Union ways and means of Improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement; the interpretation of this Agreement and to provide Information and discuss Issues related totheOompanyoperations.
A committee member Is entitled to such time off from his work $ necessary to attend meetings of the committee, such time spent shall be deemed to be work time for which he shall be paid straight time while on shift or off shift forall hours in attendance of a meeting.
10:09 As per the attached Letter of Understanding re Coveralls, the Company agrees to theadditdon of one(1)parof coveralls making availableftve (5) pair of coveralls to all tradesmen.
10:10 The Company wil ensure that adequate temperatures are provided in lunch and washrooms
10:11 The Company prcvidesfirst aid arrangements asrequlred by Provlndal laws
10:12 Effective the first date of the contract renewal the Company will contribute by monthly cheque to the Financial Secretary of the local union $0.03 per hour per employee for all compensated hours forthe purpose of providing paid education leave.
Said paid leave will be for the purpose of up-grading the employee’s skill In all aspects of health and safety and bade union education.
Employees on paid education leave of absencs will continue to acrue seniority and benefits during such leave.
ARTICLE XI-HOURS OF WORK
11:01 (a) The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week Monday to Saturday
Inclusive. The work week for day or shift workers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Mondayto Friday Indusive, orTuesdayto Saturday Inclusive,
11
It is agreed that day work or shift work employees may be required to work in stcess of their regular work day or shift or work week, and will be paid In accordance with Section 11:05 fir such time worked, If an employee requests to be etaml from working overtime, permission wi not be unreasonably withheld,
11:01 (b)	For the purpose of this Agreement Sunday shall begin at 7:00 a.m. on Sunday and
end at 7:00 am. Monday.
A holiday dial begin at 7:00 a.m. the day of the holiday and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following the holiday. An employee's "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. of that day and end at7:00a,m, the day following,
11:02 On other two-shift operations, the first shift shall consist of eight (6) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after. The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shal carry a shift differential of the second shift,
11:03 (a) Cn a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutive hours. The starting and stopping times frthe three (3) shifts and the shift differentialsto be paid, shall be as follows:
starting Tme
(between the hoursof) 1st shift 7:00 a.m. - 8:00 a.m. 2nd shift 3:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. 3rd shift 11:00 p.m. -12:00 a.m.
Stopping Time (between the hour of) 3:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m. -12:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m. -8:00 am.
Shift Differential:
Istshift - nil;
2nd shift - $0,52 per hour;
3rd shift- $0,62 per hour.
11:03 (b) The hours of work and the "sixth day" for day woikers and shift workers shall be posted by 3:00 p.m. Thursday of the previous week. However, the Company reserves the right to revise the schedules when necessary up to 12:00 noon Friday previous to work week The starting and Stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to
the following:
An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule b changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is chaiged by the Company he will be paid at one and oneM times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. Wen the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shfe worked.
Wen an agreement for a change of shift by employees is requested, forms for this shift change wi be made available by the Supervisor for signature by the employees concerned and their Supervisors.
12
The Company will post by the 15* of each month, the operating schedule (not the work schedule) for the following month for the Sawml and the Planer.
11:03 (c) Itn employee, who has completed tils scheduled work vte^ is required for work on his "sixth day" or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted by the preceding Friday noon. If he is available for the posted overtime worts at regular starting time and is unable to commence worts for reasons beyond his control he shall receive four (4) hours pay at time and one-half provided he remain available for the four (4) hour period t o requestedby the Ocmpany.
11:04 (a) A day or shift worker who is unable to work the Ml day or shift for eanbeyond hiscontrol, shall be pad for the Ml day sr shift.
Tb qualify for the above the employee must stay on the job until told by the Shift
11:04 (b) Ik during his scheduled work week a day or shift worker reports for work at his scheduled starlingtime and k unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, and If no reasonable efforts have been made to notify him not to report, he shall reoerve four (4) hours pay for reporting, provided he remains available for the four (4) hour period if so requested by
the Ocmpany.
Notification procedures shall be eslablishedlocally.
11:05 Time worked In excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift, ail hours worked on Sunday and all hours worked by an employee on his designated "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) or outside his scheduled dhlft shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a Sunday. Overtime work required v\l be distributed in accordance with the Letter of UnderstandingRe: Overtime Distribution.
For calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall not be considered as part cf an employee's applicable hourly rate.
When an employee is called out fir overtime work, after completing his shift or when called out on his day off, he shal be guaranteed four (4) hours pay at time and one-half If he works less than four (4) hours, and eight (E) hours at time and me-half If he Is unable to work the full eight (8) hours. .
Te Ocmpany will record overtime worked by each employee for each week and post in avisiblelocation.
11:06 A ten minute "quarter time” on Ocmpany time shall be allowed twice each shift.
13
ARTICLEXH -SENIORITY
12:01 The Company recognizesthe principle of seniority. Seniority vi govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability, in promotions, transfers, layoffs, and recalls after layoffs.
As of September 1, 2000, the seniority ranking of employees is as set in schedule
"C attached.
12:02 Employment of any new employes shall be considered $ probationary until he has completed thirty (30) days of work in one period of employment. Upon completion of this probationary period he shal be dassed as a qualified employee with seniority ranking dating bade to his date of hire. A discharge, quit or absence without leave, shall break any accumulation of qualifying days.
12:03 I n the cse of layoff due to a shortage of work the Company will nobly the men intended to be laid df at least two (2J workdays in advance, unless the shortage of work is beyond the Company'scontroli The Union Grievance Committee will receive a list of the men affected, prior to fe intended layoff.
12:04 When the approximate time of the recall is known at the time of layoff employees leavingwlll be informed cfsucfi approximate dates at that ftna But in any case,notice in writing will be sert to an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employees will be requiredto acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the (fate specified unless other arrangements havebeen made in writing.
12:05 An employee who has established seniority and who returns to work in dme shall retain his seniority ranking during absences due to:
(a)	sickness or injury, certified by a licensed physician, dentist, or licensed chiropractor.
(b)	layofffor lack of work notexceeding twenty-four (24) months.
(c)	leaves-of-absence granted at the employee's request not exceeding ten (10) months.
(d)	employment with the Union not exceeding twelve (12) months. Such leave may be renewed upon request
(e)	employment with the Company outside the bargaining unit not exceeding eleven (11) months,
An employee who quits of his own accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or foils to report to work following recall as provided in Secbon 12:04 shall automatically lose all seniority, An employee who foils to return from leaveof-absencecn the date specified, shall lose his seniority unless his return to work on.dme Is preventedby araimstances beyond his control. All absences from work must be covered by leaves-of-absence the issue of which Is discretionary but which will not be withheld unreasonably.
14
12:06 When employees appty/bld from one job classification to another, senior employees with the necessary qualifications shall	consideration. Insuch cases an employee shall
receive the rate for the job to which he k transferred, when, due to shortage of woric, h his bidded classification an employee kassigned to a lower paid job classification, die employee shall receive lie rate for his new job classification as of the date of assignment j tB case of a temporary change to a lower job classification at the Company's request, the employee shall retain the rate of his previous jdb classification.
Tradespeople will not be permitted to apply/bid outside their classification until they have worked in the specific bade as a licensed tradesperson for a period of time equal to their apprenticeship, An employee hired on directfy as a licensed tradesperson will not be permitted to apply/bid outside his classification for a period of one year. In a by off situation, laid off tradespeople will exercise millseniority.
12:07(a) The Company, when filling posted vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordance with Arttde 12:01, Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on the bulletin boards for rive (5) working days and will be mailed to employees off work on WI, LTD or WSIB.
12;07(b) Temporary appointments may be made without postingfor filling vacancies of less than two (2) calendarweeks duration.
12:07(c) Newly created jobs will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Company for five (5) working days prior to any appointments to such jobs, stating normal job requirements. A newly created position can, at the Company’s discretion, be considered temporary for not more than twelve (12) consecutive months. Should it be decided during this 12 month period to make the position permanent then tel** will be posted as per Artide 12:07 (a)
12:07(d) Employees not be considered for posted jobs unless they apply in writing within a five (5) day period. An employee absent from work for a period of more than thirty days (vacation time accepted), automatically be isted as an applicant on all postings lhat occurred within the ninety (90) day period immediately prior to his return to work. Immediately upon his return he will be so advised by the Company and must signify forthwith that he is allowing the application to stand. Failureto so signify will render the application null and void, The Company shall post notices shewing the names of successful applicants for posted vacancies and newly created jobs.
12:07(e) The job wi be filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12:01 of this Agreement An employee who is contacted to accept a posted vacancy will be allowed up to eight® hours of paid time to observe the Incumbent perform the posted occupation,
An employe v\ho subsequently accepts a posted job shall be allowed (5) work days In which to qualify(or further t/meas may be mutually agreedto butwillwT be unreasonably withheld). An employee may forfeit an accepted bid within the qualifying period no more than once In any twelve month period. Failure of an employe to qualify or his election to forfeit shall entitle him to return to hisformer job without loss of seniority <r benefits.
15
12:07 (f) A job that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to \acate It due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement have, jury duty and/or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work days, shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall be filled according to the provisions of Secticn 12:07 (a) and the job posting will note that It Is of a
temporary nature.
The employee who had occupied the job, upon his return to work shal once again occupy the job that he had filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth above, provided however, that the job k sil in effect and is not filled by a senior employee who, for ismsof notice of layoff from his former job hasexerdsed hisseniority on this particular job.
12:08 Lists showing the seniority tanking of employees will be prepared and posted on Company bulletin boards, available for the information of all employees and will be updated and revised every month. A copy of this listing will be forwarded to the Union.
12:09 The management and the operation of the plant, and the direction and the promotion of the working forces k vested exdusfvely in the management of the Company subject only to the seniority Article herein and provided, however, that this will not be used for discrimination against employees
12:10 When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of nav methods, automation and technological change or due to curtailment of operations (exduding normal fluctuations in production levels) affected employees shall be offered alternative employment on miningjobs in accordance with Artlde XII, to meet the Company's labour requirement and If such employees require training to perform Ihe alternative employment effectively, they shall be trained by the Company,
ARTICLE XIII • BULLETIN BOARDS
13:01 The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company providing such notices have been approved by the Personnel Supervisor or Manager.
The Company will provide four Union notice boards in the foliowing locations:
- one in each lunch room, and one at the office of Ted Bell.
ARTICLE XIV • HEALTH AND WELFARE
14:01 WEEKLY INDEMNITY - The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of a Weekly Indemnity Insurance plan and will administer the insurance plan $ outlined in Schedule "E". The plan will provide seventy percent (70%) of the employee's regular straight-time rate up to the maximum noted below or the E.I, maximum, whichever the greater. The Company will reimburse an employee up to a maximum of $25,00 for all medical documents (Induding Supplemental Reports) and medical ©ams requested by the Company for such daims upon presentation of a receipt from the attendingphysidan.
16
Effective first of the month following date of ratification for all employees actively at work, the maximum weekly Indemnity benefit will be Increased to $520/week or the E,I. maximum, whichever the greater Effective September 1, 2000. Effective September 1, 2002 the maximum weekly indemnity benefit will be increased to $540/week and effective September 1, 2004, the maximum weekly indemnity benefit wil be increased to $560/week.
14:02 LONG TERM DISABILITY • The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Temi Disability Benefit Plan,
The LongTerm Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered In accordance with the terms of an Insurance policy.
1,	Eligibility • He Long Term Disability Benefit Plan be compulsory for all employeeswho have accumulated two months seniority with thsQompany.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage ■ An eligibleemptoyee is entitled to benefits provided he Is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Plan becomes effective. The plan becomes effective February 1,1979.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness <r accident at the effective date of the Plan, d'd only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuousactive full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
An eligible employee absent from work due to layoff at the effective date of the Plan shall be entitled to the Long Term Disability Benefit plan benefits upon recall on reporting bo
work.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning from such layoffto determinetheir eligibility underthe Plan.
3.	Qualifying Period -An Insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Plan Benel after fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly IndemnityFrian. Benel paymentshall not commence during a strike untiltheterminationof the strike,
4.	Definition of Disability • "Disability” shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) week of benefte for the same disability underthe Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injury to work at any available occupation In the Qompanyfor which he is reasonably fitted by educalion, training or experience.
5.	Amount of Benefit
Effective first of the, month following ratification for those employees actively at work Increase the maximum monthly benefit to 55% of monthly earnings as defined In (5)(b) upto a maximum monthly paymentof $2100,
(b)' "Monthly Earnings" means in the case of a day or shift worker, 173 x his regularhourty rate,
17
(c) "Hourly Rats" mums the regular rate of the employee effective	immediately prior to the date on which the disabilityoccurred, exdudiog overtime.
(d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced by any primary disability payments mads under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefits are not affected by War Pensions, Workplace Safety and Insurance Disabiity Pensions, or by any Insurance policies he may
have purchased himself.
6.	Duration of Benefit-
(a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term DisabilityBenefits, while the employee is disabled.
(b)	Service for purposes of the plan will be based on the seniority ranking of employees as is set in Schedule "C" attached.
(c)	Disabiitybenefits will be paid one month in arrears,
7.	Termination of Benefits • Benetsshall cease upon the occurence of any one of
the following:
(a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there Is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee vA be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b)	On exhaustbnof the benefit period, ac
(c)	up to normal retirementage,or
(d)	On death,
8.	Exclusion -
(a)	An employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits will not be eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
(b)	Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan will not be payable for daims
resulting from:
(i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while dong any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment £r remunerationor profit, or
(ii)	Any injury or fiiess entitling the employee to compensation under any Worker's Safely arid Insuranceor similar legislation, or
18
(Ill) Self-destruction or any self-inflicted Injury, while sane or Insane, or
(iv)	Disabilityfor which the employee Is not under the treatment of a physician, or
(v)	Alcoholism or drug addition, unless the employee Is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist I n the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee £ undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the Insurer and a licensed physician.
(vl) Disability or loss (1) while the employee Is on, m could be placed on Pregnancy/Matemlty Leave, or (2) if employee fells to qualify for Pregnancy/Matemlty Leave because of failure to mei the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Matemlty Leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for arh leave, in accordance with the current Employment Standards Act, Ontario or ary other relevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation - An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake sudi rehabilitation, Ib may bededared not eligible for an amount
of disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examinations - The Company and/or insurer reserves the light to require periodical physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability, such examinations shal be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Oompanyand/or Insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
Any dispute arising between the Company and/or the insurer's physician and the employee's physician will be resolved by a physician (preferably a specialist) dvsen by the
Company and the Union.
11,	Effective first of the month following date of ratification, the Company Is prepared to extend Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care Plan Coverage to all employees on Long Term Disabilityfor a period of their disability.
14:03 GROUP LIFE INSURANCE - the London life InsuranceCompany, E.B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd., Group Policy No. 11706 will remain in effect during the life of this Agreement.
The aboveplan benefitwill be $45,000.00 lifeinsurancewith twenty-four (24) hour Accidental Death and Dismemberment (A.D, & D.) coverage for each active employee.
EffectiveSeptember 1, 2001, the Company will Increase the amount of life insuranceto $60,000. Effective September 1, 2001, the Company will Increase the amount of AD. t D to $60,000.
19
The Gompany agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost of Life Insurance,
It Is understood that the 5/12th rebate to employees under E.I. will be retained by
the Oompany.
Soouse and Children
Effective first of month following date of ratification, the Company will provide dependent Life Insurance® the following basis:
1)	Employee pays 100% of cost
2)	Spouse $5,000.00.
3)	Each unmarried child
a)	14 days but less than 1 year of age $400,00
b)	1 year but less than 19 years or 25 years when a student full time, wholly dependent on the employee for support $2,000.00
c)	The spouse's Life Insurance will be reduced to $500,00 upon the employee's retirement and cancelledon his death.
Paid-Up life Retirees
The Oompany will provide a paid-up Life Insurance policy at age 65 of $2,500.00, Oompany vJ pay premium cost of this benefit,
14:04 MEDICAL, SURGCAt, CRUS AMD HOSPITAL CAf£ RANS ■ The Company will pay the premium for the Liberty Health Drug Plan and Semi-PrivateHospital Care Pian coverage for all active employees during the term of this Agreement,
Effective September 1, 2000, the Company is prepared to extend the provisions of the drug plan coverage for all employees retiring between the ages of 60 and 65 until they attain age 65. It Is understood and agreed that this coverage will also be madeavailable to those employees retiring under the Spedal Retirement Window and any other employees retiring before August 31, 2005.
The Gompany contribution to employees who are off work due to a Worker's Safety and Insurancedaim or a Weekly Indemnity daim will be continued for a period of up to twenty-four (24) months,
The Gompany contribution to employees who are off work due to a Long Term Disability claim will be continued for the periodof the disability.
20
14:05 DENTAL CARE PLAN
1.	Eligibility ■ Participation in the Plan is limited to employees who have accumulatedthree months of seniority with the Company hum date of employment.
2.	Plan Design -
a)	Service and benefits $ provided i n Blue Cross No. 7 Base Plan and Rider No. 1. (100%) ,
b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2. (50%) Maximum $1,000.00 per calendar year per person.
c)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 3. (50% coinsurance). The maximum lifetime benefit for orthodontic service covered esqienses $1,000.00
per insured family member.
Effective first of the month following date of ratification amend plan to provide far the 1997 O.DA Schedule of Dental Fees,
Effective September 1, 2001 amend the plan to provide tor the current dental coverage increase to $1,500 per calendar year per insured person wiih a one year lag on the O.D. A, Schedule of Fees.
It is understood and agreed' that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an orplcyee Is df work due to layoff or leave of absence, but In no case beyond the
end of the month following the month In which such absence commenced.
3.	Administration • The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of proceduresrefleding the Plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, Insurancecompanles or selfadministration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives,
4.	Premiums- The premium cost of this Plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Integration - The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal cr provincial legislation,
I f during the life of this Agreement Federal or Provincial government shall Introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan, the Plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
14:06 VISION CARE PIAN ■ Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, E B, Eddy Forest Products Ltd,, Group Policy 60526 will remain h effect during the life of this Agreement
Effective first of the month following the date of ratification Increase the vision care maximum benefit to $150,00 every two(2) calendar yeais. The benefit will be equivalentto Blue Cross Vision Care Plan (Bask) for all employees and their dependents.
21
14:07 BENEFITS AT LAY OFFS • The following benefits shall be paid to the end of the month following layoff:
a)	Life Insurance
b)	Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care Plan,
c)	Dental Care Plan
d)	vision Care Plan
ARTICLE XV ■ PENSION PLAN
15:01 FLAT BENEFIT PLAN • The Company will establish and administer a noncontributory pension plan for all hourly-rated employees with one year of service or more effective September 1, 1984, Normal retirement will be first day of the month following attainmentof age 65, An employee with tai (10) years of continuous Company service can elect to retire after age 55, however, the monthly payments will be actuarially reduced. The cost of the plan will be paid by the Company.
Effective September 1, 2001, the Fiat Benefit Pension Plan Is increased from $32,00 per year of pensionable service to $38.00 per year of pensionable servicefor employeeswho are accruing service in the Flat Benefit Pension Plan after September 1, 2001,
It Is understood that this Increase of $6.00 per year of pensionable service will not apply to retirees covered underthe Utter of Understanding Fte: Special Downsizing Retirement Window. I twill also not apply to employeeswho will receive a severancepaymentunderthe Letter of Understanding Fte: Severance Flay,
To offset the oast of the pension formula increase for past service and for current service, the Company and the Union agree to reduce the Hourly \Nage Rateincreases granted under the tern of this Agreement by 3.95%, during a period of three (3) years and six (6) months.
A temporary adjustment to the Hourly V\foge Rate of all positions will subsequently be made to reflect this hourly wage increase reduction effective Septemberl, 2001. A special rate adjustment will be made effectiveMarch 2005, to increase individual rates to 99.5% of their original projected level, taking into accountthe permanentcostofO.50% for currentservicecost increase
I n addition, employees will be allowed to transfer their 2000 Domtar Profit Sharing payment into the Money Purchase Plan on a pre-tax basis.
22
Guaranteed Payments- If a retired employee's death occurs before he has received sixty (60) monthly payments of retirement income under the plan, his retirement Income paymentswill continue to be paid to his beneficiary until the remainder of the sixty (60) monthly payments has been paid from tab ut fund.
Surviving Spouse pension - F a married employee with 10 years of continuous
service with teGompany, who qualifiesfor early retirementafter age 55 and before age 65, des before his retirement date the employee's surviving spouse will receive 60% of the earned pension allowance for the life of the surviving spouse, commendng on the fist day of the month following date of death. I f the surviving spouse is more than 10 years younger than the deceased employee, tomonthlypension would beactuartally reduced,
Disability Bereft- An employee with at least 10 years of continuous service who has attained age 55, has qualified for disability benefits under the CPP/QPP and is totally and permanently disabled will be eligible for a monthly disability pensionwithout actuarial reduction.
(i) Effective September 1.1995 the Flat Pension Plan is amended to provide for
$32.00 per month per year of pensionableservfce for bath past and future service,
(II) Effective September 1.1995. any member in service who elects to retireearty upon his/her attainment of age 60 or after, provided he has accumulated at least ten (10) years of continuous service, will receive, commencing on higher early retirement date, a retirement income benefit equal to the retirement income benefit he/she had accumulated to such early retirement date without actuarial reduction subject to the minimum reductions required by Revenue Canada.
(iii) Effective September 1,1995, any memberwho has attained age sixty (60) and has accumulated a minimum of tan (10) years of continuous service shall be eligible to the following bridging supplement,
Those employees retiring early on or after age 60 with at least ten (10) years of continuous service shall receive a bridging supplement of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month per year of continuous service to a maximum of thirty (30) years. The bridging supplement will reduce to zero on the first day of the month following the member's sixty-fifth (65th) birthday or on ti^ierc/eafh, whichever occurs-first.
Employees off work on Long Term Disability benefits shall continue to accrue Flat Benet Pension credits at no cost. This provision is to be applied to those employees currently receiving Long Term Disability benefits.
15:02 MONEY PURCHASE PLAN - Effective January 1,1993, In addition to ta current flat Benet Plan noted above, a mandatory Money Puichase Ran will be introduced and will be applicableto all employees after one (1 )ysr of service.
23
This new Money Purchase Plan will be contributed to by both the Company and the employee. The level of monthly contributions will be $55.00 by both the Company and the employee. Effective September 1,1998, at the option of fte employee, the monthly contribution level by both the employeeand employerwill increase from $60,00 to $70.00.
Effective September 1,1999, at the option of the employee, the monthly contribution level by both the employee and the employer will further increase to $90,00.
In addition to those options noted abo/e, employees will be offered the opportunity to transfer monies generated from the Production Bonus into the Money Purchase Plan at their option. The administrative costs associated with the Money Puichase Plan are to be paid for by the Company. Any investment fees will be the responsibility of the employee.
Employees off work on Long Term Disability shall be entitled to continue contributing into the Money Puichase Plan while off on disability. The Company agrees to make their contribution for as long as the employee continues to mate his/her contributions,
Those employees on W.S.I.B. can continue to contribute into the Money Puichase Plan for up to twenty-four (24) months, If the employees elect to continue contributing, the Company will continue to mate their required contributions.
Employeeswho are off work due to a Weekly Indemnity daim can, for a period of upto twelve (12) months continue to contribute into the Money PurchasePlan. If the employees elect to continue contributing, the Company will continue to mate their required contributions,
ARTICLE XVI ■ BEREAVEMENT PAY
16:01 Wien death occurs to an employee's spouse or children, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and dial be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of five (5) days in the eight (8) day period beginning with the day of death. When death occurs to an employee's father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days In the eight (8) day period beginning with the day of death. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. Fby will be granted for the regular scheduled work days lost during the period. Any claim for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee in writing along with proof of bereavementin the employee's immediate family. If the employee does not attend the funeral, he shall receiveone (1) days compassionate leave with pay.
An employee must have thirty (30) or more days of service to qualify for payment. The five day funeral leave will be granted over an eight day period for scheduled work day; lost beginning with day death occur.
24
An employee absent on scheduled vacation will be granted the usual number of days applicable to funeral leave in addition to his vacation at a time mutually convenient to the employee and the Company within sixty (60) days.
ARTICLEXVII -JURY DUM
17:01 I n the case of an employee who is called for jury service, subpoenaed witness or crown witness, the Oompany shall pay for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore when making hisdaim for such allowance.
The employee will be exused from his shift if he is required to work anytime in the
calendar day he Is required for jury duty.
ARTICLE XVIII ■ LEAVE OF ABSENCE
18:01 The Oompany agrees to pay regular straight time wages to employees on temporary leave of absence forty (40) hours in one period for Union busiiess. The local Union shall be billed for straight time wages paid. The Oompany will make all normal deductions for incometax, C.P.P., etc, A request in writing for a leave of absence for official Union businesswill be submitted to the Human Resources Supervisor at least ten days in advance and the request will be granted subject to availability of employees to cover the vacancy. Requests in writing received less than ten days in advance will be granted provided the granting of the apdb will not affect operations. Tfre payment of overtime premium^ not be considered as affecting mill operationssubject to availability of employees to cover the vacancy,
ARTICLE XIX-SEVERANCE PAY
19:01 A permanent employee with at least two years' continuous service who is laid off due to job elimination by Management decision for such causes as more efficient operation, change or elimination of a process, lack of orders, shall be paid severance pay if no job Is available. Severance pay shall not be paid due to job elimination for such causes as lire, flood, explosion or "Act of God".
Severance pay shall be paid In accordance with the following:
(a)	Severance pay shall be 2% of an employee's total earnings for his last toll period of service without Interruption due to lack of work, Severance pay will not be paid to employees who resign <r are discharged. One-half of this severance pay is payable after the employee has been laid off due to job elimination for a period of twelve (12) weeks. The second half of ha severance pay is payable after the employee has been laid off a total of six (6) months. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to mate application for such severance pay.
25
(b)	If recalled to work before the severance payment Is payable, no such payment will be made. Any employee refusinga iscal shallforfeit his right to severance pay.
(c)	I f an employee is recalled after having received all of the severance pay due him, he will, as of the day of return, commence a new period of accumulation which will be credited toward any future layoff,
(d)	I fan employee is recalled after having receiwdbaf of the severance pay due him, he wi, upon return to work, retain the right to the unpaid portion which will be added to any new accumulation of severance pay.
ARTICLE XX ■ APPRENTICESHIPPLAN
20:01 Ai Ontario Government approved apprenticeship program will be established In the following trades:
Heavy Duly EquipmentMechanic
Electrician
Sawfiler
Others may be added as required.
1b length of the apprenticeship programs will be four work periods of 2000 hours plus all mandatory school periods.
The number of employees in the apprenticeship program in each bade will be governed by the Hue manpowerrequirements in the bade.
1.	The program will be based on the Ontario Government's Apprenticeship and Tradesmen'sQualification Act,
2.	Applicants must have a minimum of grade 10 education or equivalent as required for a certified program. They will be required to submit to a series of aptitude tests to determinetheir suitabilityfbr the apprenticeship program, When morethan the required number of applicants pass the aptitude tests the senior employee® shall be awarded the apprenticeship.
3.	The tests will be administered by the Director of Human Resources, Wood Products and the results wffl be kept in strict confidence. Wen an employee is informed that he has failed the aptitude tests he shall be given, upon request, the results of the testing indicating tests passed and failed.
4.	On a person has been successfully tested for a particulartrade he does not have to be tested again. I f he is not selected upon his first application he may apply again in the future. I f he applies for a different bade which requires additional bests he v\i have to take the additional test.
26
5,	The formal training program will be completed and the certificates of
qualification, both Government and Company, will be issued,
6,	Straighttime overtime hours will apply towards the required accumulatedine. The Personnel Departmentwill keep records of accumulated time for each apprentice.
7,	Some of the regulated trades programswill require modification to ensue that apprenticesleam tasks required in the Naim operation
8,	Apprentices must q u i r e a completeset of bade related tools before 4800 work hours have been accumulated,
9,	There will be a sixty (60) day probationary period for al employees entering the apprenticeship program, During this period, if the employee does not display the necessary aptitude for the particular trade he may be returned to his former job without loss of seniority, The apprentice must besuccessful at the in-school apprenticeshipprogram In orderto contmueln the program. Two successive failures at school will constitute a dissolution of any contract between the Company and employee. Similarly the contract will be dissolved If the Advisory Committee recommends ttE withholding of two successive pay increases,
10.	The Company agrees to provide apprentices the difference between forty (40) hours at his regular rate and arty Government subsidies available while at the in-school program. 7s! benefits will continue during the' period the apprentice Is at school. The Company will provide seventy-he dollars ($75.00) per week for room and board In addition to the Government compensation.The Company will further supply all books or materials on banto the apprentice In order to complete the required couise.
The Company is prepared to reimbursean employee for mileage Inacoordance with our divisional travel policy that states mileage is calculated from an employee's home or the mill, whichever isdoser.
11.	The progress of each apprentice will be recorded and kept on file in the Personnel Department,
12.	Wages will be in accordance with Schedule "A" attached.
13.	The program will be supervised by the Trades Training Advisory Committee, which will consist of two members of Local 31-X, two membersof Management, and a Chairman, The Chairman's position will be filled by the Director of Human Resources, Wood Products.
14.	It is understood that the rate for the second, third or fourth period will not be paid until the apprentice completes the mandatory schooling at the end of each period. I f the apprentices school results are successful, all hours worked between the end of a period, the time an apprentice goes to school, will be paid rates retroactive to the start of the period.
15.	I n a by off situation, those still on the property due to senbrily will continue in or be recalledto the ApprenticeshipProgram based on progress(accumulatedhours)todate.
27
SCHEDULE"A" SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES FOR
TRADES TRAINING PROGRAM
Millwrights
Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanics
Electricians
Sawfilers
Four periods of 2000 hours
1st Period 2nd Period 3rd Period 4th Period
1-2000 hours 2001-4000 hours 4001-6000 hours 6001-8000 hours
Completion of Program
Apprentice 1 Apprentice 2 Apprentice 3 Apprentice 4 Licensed
28
ARTICLE XXI • AUTOMATION ANDTECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
The Company proposedthls Introduction of an Article aimed at addressingautomationand
technological change:
(A)	The Company Isconcemed aboutthe Impact on employees and conditions of employment resultingfrom technological change, automation and change or elimination of a process,
(B)	A JointCommitteeon Automation and/or Tech nological Change wi 11 be, established consisting of six persons, three selected by Managementand three selected by the Union, The function of the Joint Committeeshall be advisory to Managementand it will
study the effects on employees, their employment status and their working conditions in the mill, of changes resulting from automation and/or technological change.
The Joint Committee, among other things will consider early retirement, retraining, transfers to other jobs, as rail as the availability of assistance from the various levels of Governmentas a means of assisting employees displaced by changes resulting from automationand/or technological change,
(C)	Having concern for the impact of such changeswhich may result Injob elimination, the Company undertakesto advise the Union as far In advance as is feasible
(not less than ninety (90) days) of such changeswhich the Company has decided to Introduce, which will,result in significant change in the employment status of employees. The Company will Indicate, when notification of this technological change is made, which position(s) will be affected.
(D)	At such time, the Company will supply the JointCommittee, for its use, such informationas maybe required.
(E)	All persons who are employedwith one (1) years continuous service who are set back to a lower paid job due to job elimination under conditions set forth above, his rate shall be maintained for a period of six (6) months from date of set back.
For an additionalperlod of six (6) months, an adjusted rate will be established midray between his previous rate at time of set back and the rate of his new job for each work raek, which depends upon the operatingschedule. At the end of one (1)year, the rate of the job to which he is assigned will apply.
29
Schedule “B”
■Occupation Codes. Rates and Dates
JOE
Code
Description
Sept.	Sept.	Sept.	Sept	Sept.
1/00	1/01	1/02	1/03	1/04
2,5ft,	2.5 ft-	-3.0ft	2.0ft	2,0ft
700
700
700
7C0
700
701 701 701 701
701
702 702 702 702
702
703
703
703
703
703
704
705 704 704
706
706 704
707
707
708
710
711
712
713 717
720
721
722
723
724
725 740
750
751
752
753
754
755
754 757
755
759
760
761
762
763
764
765
Mechanic-Apprentice 1 Meehinic-Apprentlee 2 Mechink:-Apprentice 3 Mechanic-Apprentice 4 Mechanic
Carpenter-Apprentice 1 Carpenter-Apprentice 2 Carpenter-Apprentice 3 Carpenter-Apprentice 4 Carpenter
Electrician-Apprentice 1 Electrician-Apprentice 2 Electrician-Apprentice 3 Electrician-Apprentice 4 Electrician Flier - Apprentice 1 Flier-Apprentice 2 Filer-Apprentice 3 Flier-Apprentice 4 Flier-Licenced Filer Assistant Fitter
Millwright-Apprentice 1 Millwright-Apprentice 2 Millwright-Apprentice 3 Millwright-Apprentice 4 Millwright-Licenced Mechanic-licensed Millwright-Unlicensed Sewfller - Unlicensed Crewleader - Millwright Crewleader- Electrical Relief Produdion Super Batten Mill Operator Crewleader - Filing Cherry Picker Operator Chip Truck Orlver Poclaln Operator Stationary Loader Oper Truck Driver -S/L Heede Crane Operator General Labourer Lumber Recovery Oper Bin Mart
Butt Saw Operator
Chipper Canter Operator Chipper Operator Clean UpPerson Slab Recovery Operator Dry Kiln Operator Re-entryOperator Framer Infeed Man Framer Operator Framer Outfeed Man Greenchaln Man HoodSlasher Operator Oeacanner Operator Ucwted QndtrfTrimmwman
$19.16 $19.62 $20.50 $21.12 $23.56 119,17 $19.61 $20.50 12U2 $23.56 $16.17 $19,61 $20.50 $21,12 $23.56 $19,17 $19.82 $20.50 $21,12 $23.56 $21,12 $20.50 $19,16 $19.62 $20.50 $21,12 $23.56 $23.56 $23.58 $23.56 $24.45 $24 45 $24.45 $19.17 $24,45 $19,69 $20.36 $20.31 $19.69 $19.69 $22.66 $19.17 $20.02 $19.35 $19.39 $21.46 $19,39 $19,17 $20,11 $20.26 $20.57 $19.17 $20.31 $19,24 $19.27 $20,31 $20.21 122,20
$19.64
$20.32
$21.01
$21.35
$24,17
$19,45
$20.31
$21.01
$21,55
$24,17
$1965
$20.31
$21.01
$2144
$24,17
$19.65
$20.32
$21.01
$21.64
$24.17
$21.65
$21.01
$19.65
$20.32
$21.01
$21,65
$24,17
$24.17
$24,17
$24,17
$25.06
$25.06
$25.06
$19,65
$25.06
$20.36
$20,87
$20.62
$20.36
$20.36
$23.24
$19.85
$20.52
$19.83
$19,87
$22.01
$19.87
$19,65
$20,61
$20.77
$21.06
$19,65
$20.82
$19,72
$19,75
$20.62
$20.71
-Hitt
$19.34
$20.01
$20.66
$21.02
$23.60
$19.35
$20.00
$20.66
$21.31
$23.80
$19.35
$20.00
$20.68
$21.30
$23.60
$19.35
$20.01
$20.68
$21.30
$23.60
$21.31
$20.68
$19.36
$20.01
$20.69
$21.31
$23.60
$23.80
$23.80
$23.60
$24.67
$24.67
$24.67
$19.35
$24,87
$20.06
$20.55
$20.50
$20.06
$20.06
$22.88
$19.35
$20.20
$19,52
$19,54
$21.67
$19.56
$19,35
$20.29
$20.45
$20.75
$19.35
$20.50
$19,41
$19,44
$20.50
$20.39
$22.40
$19.92
$20.61
$21.31
$21.65
$24.51
$19,93
$20.60
$21.31
$21,95
$24.51
$19,93
$20.60
$21.31
$21,94
$24.51
$19,93
$20.61
$21,31
$21,94
$24,51
$21.95
$21,31
$19.93
$20.61
$21.31
$21,95
$24.51
$24.51
$24,51
$24.51
525.41
525.41
525.41 $19.93
525.41 $20.67 $21,16 $2111 $20.67 $20.67 123.57 $19.93 $20,81 $20.11 $20,15 $22.32 $20,15 $19,93 $20.90 $21,04 $21,38 $19,93 $21,11 $20.00 $20.03 $21.11 121.00
jmu
$20.31 $21.02 $21,73 $22.06 $25.00 $20.32 $21,01 $21,73 $22.39 $25.00 $20.32 $21.01 $21.73 $22.38 $25.00 $20.32 $21.02 $21.73 $22.36 $25.00 $22.39 $21.73 $20.32 $21.02 521,73 $22.39 $25.00 $25.00 $25.00 $25.00 $25.92 525 92 525,92 $20.32 $25.92 $21.08 521.59 $21,53 $21.06 $21.06 524,04 $20.32 $21,22 $20.51 $20.55 $22,77 $20.55 $20.32 $21.32 $21.48 $21.80 $20.32 $21.53 $20.40 $20.43 $21,53 521,42 S23.53
$20.72
$21.44
$22.17
$22.82
$25.50
$20.73
$21.43
$22.17
$22.64
$25.50
$20.73
$21,42
$22.17
$22.63
$25.50
$20,73
$21.44
$22.17
$22.63
$25.50
$22.64
$22.17
$20,73
521,44
$22.17
$22.84
$25.50
$25.50
$25.50
$25.50
$26.44
$26.44
$26.44
$20.73
$26.44
$21.50
$22.02
$21.07
$21.50
$21,50
524,52
$20.73
$21,85
$20.92
$20.96
$23.22
$20.96
$20.73
$21,74
$21.91
$22,24
$20.73
$21,97
$20.60
$20.64
$21.97
Mar.
1/05
$21.46
$22.21
$22,96
123.33
$26.42
52148
$22.20
$22.98
$23.66
$26.42
$21.48
$22.20
$22.96
$23.65
$26.42
$21,48
$22.21
$22.96
$23.65
$26.42
$23.66
$22.98
$21.46
$22.21
$22.96
$23.66
$26.42
$26.42
$26.42
$26.42
$27.39
$27.39
$27,39
$21.48
$27,39
$22.27
$22.81
52275
$22,27
$22,27
$25.40
$21.48
$22.43
$21,67
$21.72
$24.05
$21,72
$21.48
$22.52
$22,70
$23.04
$21.46
$22.75
$21.55
$21,58
$22.75
$22.63
JOE
Cods
m
767
768
76$
ID
771
m
m
774
775
776
m
776
77$
780
761
712
763
744
m
787
766
790
792
783
794
796
797 796 799
Description	Present Sept Sept Sept NpL Sept Mir.
KM	1fft1	1/CI9	ilM	1KU	1/r
__________________________________________________________2.6S	3,OH 2,<W	2.0%_______________
Lift Operstor(Traln1-30)	$ 19.44
Lift Opsrtt.(Traln31*60)	1(9.67
Lift Operat.-Lumber Hdl.	1(9.69
log Processor Operator	121,74
Mark II Operator	$20.56
Planer Mill Infeed Man	121.74
Reman Operator	120,Of
Stacker Man	11169
Sticker flaw/	11127
Trimmsrmin - L.L.M.	$20.92
Debarker Operator	119,90
Twin Resaw Operator	|2(,26
Unlicensed Grader	1(161
Utility Operator	120.10
High Speed Stud Oper,	$20.58
Wedge Mill Bundler	111,26
Wedge Mill Operator	1(9.42
TiltHHOperator	1(1(7
Strapper Operator	119,74
PackigsMaker/Operitor	$20.00
Assist. Processor Operat.	$20.31
Lift Operat-log Handi'g,	1(9,49
East Scanner Operator	119.94
Utility Operator-Olivine	120.47
FlowPerion	121,26
PrimarySorter	120,02
Lrnbr. StnpperrWrtpptr	1(194
LumberWrapper	119.66
Processor Tmck Driver	$19.17
Handpull Loader Operat. 120.0 i Dry Kiln Led*	121.10
Licensed "6* Grader	121,40
11195	119,42	120,21
120.	(4	1(144	120,44
120.64	$20.06	120,97
122.26	421.94	$22.59
121.09	120,74	121,59
$22.28	121.94	$22.59
$20.51	120,(9	$20.80
$20.06	119,7 7	$20.36
11174	11144	$20.03
121,	W	121,11	121,74
$20.39	120.07	$20.68
12(,79	521,44	122,(0
$20.06	119,77	620.38
$20.63	120.41	120,92
121.09	120,74	121,49
119,76	419,45	420,04
mtt	$19.60	$20.39
419.65	419,34	419,93
420,23	419,92	420,41
$20.50	$20.18	420,79
420,62	420,40	421,1	1
120.38	120.06	420,47
$20.44	420.12	520,73
$21.06	$20.75	121.36
121,81	121,47	522,12
$20.52	$20,20	120,81
$20.44	520.12	520.73
420.12	419.8!	$20.40
419,85	413,34	419,93
420,51	420.19	420.80
421,33	421,30	421,93
422,03	521,89	422,34
420,81	421,03	521,76
42045	421,27	}21«
121.06	121,80	$22.27
$23.04	123.51	$24.35
$21.81	422,25	$23.05
$23,04	423.51	$24.35
$2121	$21.64	$22.42
$20.77	421,16	421,95
$20.43	$20.64	421,86
$22.18	$22.62	$23.43
421,09	421.51	$22.26
422.84	122.99	523,6(
$20.77	421,14	421,98
421,34	421,78	422,85
421,41	422.28	$23.05
520,44	$20.85	421.80
420.60	521.22	$21.96
$20.32	420.73	421,44
420,92	521,34	522,11
521.20	521,83	422,40
521.63	421.97	$22.75
521,04	521,50	12127
121, 14	421.88	$22.34
521,80	522,24	523,04
$22.56	523.01	423.84
521.22	521,85	$22.43
821,14	52158	522,34
520.61	521,23	421,99
420,32	520,73	521.44
421.21	521.84	522,42
422.37	422,62	$23.64
522,79	523,24	$24,08
JOBQBQUP1MQS
741
742
743
744 748 744 747
Sawyer	$21,44
Mobile Equipment	420,(5
Machine Operator	820,15
Log Preparation	520.15
Machine Operator 2	521,75
Labourer- Job Rotation	520,15
Licensed Grader- Job Rot	$22.20
522,01	521,87	52132
$20.65	520.33	$20.94
$20.66	520,33	$20.94
520,85	520,33	520.94
522,29	521.94	522.80
520,55	520.33	$20.94
522.75	52140	523.07
$22,77	$23.22	$24.05
521.38	521,79	$22,57
521.38	521.79	522,57
821.36	521,79	$22.57
$23.06	823.52	$24.36
321.36	821,79	422.57
$23.53	$24.00	424.68
M. Bouillon
NOTE RATES REFLECT PENSION CONTRIBUTION
31
5
13
15
17
20
22
23
24
26
27
30
31
34
39
57
77
86
91
97
114
115
125
128
138
139
144
159
170
174
191
198
205
213
219
226
232
243
244
247
258
248
260
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL SENIORITY UST
Ranking	Seniority
Numter tymg	tete
1	01/06/63
2	07/01/64.
3	11/02/67
4	31/05/67
5	02/02/68
6	21/08/68
7	20/09/68
8	04/11/68
9	06/01/70
10	14/09/70
11	18/12/70
12	18/03/71
13	18/01/72
14	15/01/73
15	16/04/73
16	03/05/73
17	18/06/73
18	22/06/73
19	10/07/73
20	31/07/73
21	08/08/73
22	04/09/73
23	04/09/73
24	01/10/73
25	02/10/73
26	07/01/74
27	08/03/74
28	18/03/74
29	02/04/74
30	24/06/74
31	11/07/74
32	19/08/74
33	16/09/74
34	07/04/75
35	07/04/75
36	21/04/75
37	12/05/75
38	12/05/75
39	06/05/75
40	12/05/75
41	20/05/75
42	20/05/75
43	21/07/75
T^eleph^
869-3580
^869-4265
869-1280
869-4178
869-2970
869-2823
869-5029
377-5349
869-1067
869-2442
256-7218
869-4443
869-2«>9
869-2748
869-0137
869-5141
869-1762
86^9-4657
869-3160
869-4336
869-5941
869-4104
869-'1557
869-3220
865-	3257 869-4375 522-3763
866-	2489 869-2292 981-9568 869-6135 869-2200 ^^1 869-4923 869-3709 869-4011 869-0419 692-5325 869-1085 869-2659
32
305
314
329
332
340
355
353
351
361
375
378
379
399
404
411
419
446
451
401
467
481
225
<194
496
516
521
527
559
562
574
582
585
193
600
608
611
613
619
621
623
628
629
640
650
651
664
Ranking		r^elepllOM
Numlar mm		Mumlllr
44	05/08/75	869-4581
45	18/08/75	859-2365
46	02109175	869-5928
47	02109{75	869-4617
48	02109175	869-1074
49	22/10/75	869-2769
50	24/10/75	368-3039
51	27/10/75	859-3097
52	05/11/75	869-2084
53	23/02!76	859-2341
54	23/02/76	859-2414
55	23/02!76	862-7070
56	10/03/76	869-1451
57	15/03{76	869-4631
58	15/03{76	869-1548
59	15/03/76	859-3976
60	23/03{76	368-3151
61	26/04{76	865-2516
62	29/04{76	983-1055
63	13/05{76	869-2736
64	07/06/76	869-4755
65	10/06/76	869-2424
66	21/06/76	859-3258
67	21/06{76	866-0105
68	19/07{76	865-3025
69	29/07{76	865-2069
70	17/02/77	3n-4736
71	21/02/77	869-1750
72	21/02{77	869-1767
73	28/02{77	869-1595
74	08/03{77	869-0339
75	08/03{77	865-3154
76	10/03/77	869-2568
77	25/04{77	862-7611
78	27/06{77	869-0251
79	03/08/77	869-1871
80	08/08/77	862-7402
81	18/08{77	869-2923
82	24/08{77	862-7619
83	29/08{77	865-2446
84	06/09{77	869-4273
85	12/09/77	869-4353
86	13/09/77	869-0438
a7	11/10/77	692-9186
88	11/10/77	865-2980
89	02/11{77	869-0165
33
666
679
685
695
699
700
709
731
732
739
744
748
728
751
757
759
768
769
770
779
780
781
786
789
790
791
793
597
724
803
811
812
814
816
818
820
821
822
823
826
828
829
839
842
Ranking	Seniority	
Numblr Name		
90	07/11/77	692-1514
91	20/02/78	865-2368
92	10/84/78	862-7874
93	30/05/78	522-7072
94	02/06/78	869-0100
95	05/06/78	869-1017
96	29/06/78	855-8131
97	06/11/78	855-3871
98	10/11/78	69+3372
99	25/04/79	
100	23/05/79	869-4229
101	06/06/79	859-2768
102	11/06/79	865-3484
103	11/06/79	869-6951
104	04/09/79	368-3108
105	17/09/79	865-2984
106	15/10/79	869-0299
107	15/10/79	869-3786
108	15/10/79	869-5511
109	04/01/80	869-0338
110	07/01/80	869-0245
111	28/01/80	869-2694
112	13/02/80	866--0460
113	20/02/80	866-2177
114	21/02/80	869-5083
115	25/02/80	869-2688
116	04/03/80	869-4697
117	09/06/80	869-4699
118	16/06/80	869-1017
119	05/08/80	865-3085
120	10/09/80	855-9812
121	10/09/80	869-4632
122	15/09/80	869-4626
123	20/10/80	869-4385
124	18/11/80	86^991
125	02/02/81	869-5732
126	05/02/81	368-3890
127	05/02/81	368-3667
128	05/02/81	670-9257
129	18/02/81	368-1872
130	11/05/81	285-6650
131	19/05/81	983-2328
132	15/07/81	560-1378
133	30/03/83	866-2425
34
844
845
848
851
853
854
857
858
861
862
865
867
868
870
871
873
874
875
876
877
878
886
896
901
902
904
907
910
914
924
947
949
983
989
993
998
997
1034
1030
1031
1036
1039
1040
Ranking	sen^iority	
Number	9111	Number
134	30/03/83	86945222
135	30/03/83	692*3290
136	16/05/83	693-3058
137	25/05/83	869-4427
138	06/02/84	86943475
139	06/02/84	86943019
140	13/02/84	86^9-0648
141	13/02/84	86945720
142	14/02/84	86943682
143	27/02184	86941582
144	19/03/84	8694467
145	20/03/84	86943306
146	17/04/84	86^484
147	17/04/84	673-4801
148	17/04/84	^866-0121
149	18/04/84	86945484
150	18/04/84	86941908
151	23/04/84	869-4654
152	23/04/84	86942539
153	23/04/84	368-3688
154	23/04/84	86941047
155	18/06/84	86943249
156	20/07/84	626-1837
157	15/10/84	692-4631
158	22/10/84	86945349
159	19/11/84	86941636
160	20/11/84	865-2346
161	27/11/84	86940172
162	15/04/85	86942678
163	29/05/85	285*0512
164	03/07/85	86946528
165	08/04/86	86548423
166	08/09/86	869-5149
167	08/09/86	692-0915
168	24/09/86	523-1997
169	12/03/87	869-6612
170	16/03/87	86941690
171	03/09/87	86943855
172	04/09/87	869-4505
173	08/09/87	368-3134
174	10/09/87	869-6075
175	10/09/87	358-2328
176	10/09/87	86946634
35
Employee
Number
1042
1029
1048
1049 1094 •
1098
1099 1102
1103
1104 1140 1149 1153 1159 1184 1194 1207 1238
1241
1242
1243
1245
1246
1247
1248
1253
1254 1274 1278 1327 1329 1360 1378
Ranking	Seniority	T^^tone
Number tome	Date	Number
177	10/12/87	865-3465
178	15/03/88	865-1011
179	18/03/88	869-5528
180	21/03/88	869-2270
181	213/10/88	869-1382
182	14/11/88	388-3814
183	14/11/88	869-2094
184	28/11188	869-5443
185	28/11/88	869-4258
186	28/11/88	869-5493
187	06/09/89	869-5669
188	13/10/89	^866-0908
189	17/10/89	869-5273
190	19/03/90	869-6768
191	15/02/93	869-4627
192	16/03/93	869-3083
193	07/06/93	866-0343
194	14/10/93	869-3339
195	31/01/94	866-5139
196	31/01/94	869-1486
197	31/01/94	869-6771
198	31/01/94	869-3019
199	31/01/94	865-3481
200	31/01/94	869-0235
201	31/01/94	869-6200
202	18/02/94	869-4186
203	03/03/94	844--2729
204	23/02/95	869-5921
205	23/02/95	866-1507
206	13/01/97	86^9-0466
207	31/03/97	869-0780
208	02/07/97	692-0956
209	01/02/99	285-0728
36
SCHEDULEnD"
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Page#
1.	Weekend Maintenance Schedule
2.	FillingJob Postings re Article 12:07
3.	Layoff & Recall after Layoff
4.	Floating Holidays
5.	Coveralls
6.	Disputed W.S.I.B. Claims
7.	Weekly Indemnity
8.	Meals
9.	Electrical Maintenance
10.	Posted Back-up Positions
11.	Climatic Controls
12.	Hours of Work
13.	Overtime Distribution
14.	OvertimeWelding
15.	LumberGraders
16.	Managementof the Laboir Pool
17.	Management of Technological Change
18.	Extended ProductionSchedule
19.	Four Crew MaintenanceSchedule
20.	Job Groupings
21.	Severance Fby
22.	Special Downsizing RetirementWindow
38,39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51, 52, 53 54
55, 56
57
58
59,
61,
63,
65,
67
37
Q> O' O' O' O' Jk to o
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION ANDHSLOCAL31-X NSFN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
WEEKEND MAINTENANCESCHEDULE
Permanent Vacancies:
1)	Wien permanent vacancies occur in the regular work force the maintenance employees working the weekend schedule will be allowed to bid on those vacancies (as per Article 12:07),
Paycheques:
2)	Employees working the weekend maintenance schedule will be allowed to pick-up their pay chequeseariier on Thursday, when available,
Vacation, Sickness or Accidents:
3)	Weekend maintenance employees will be used to supplement regular crews for vacations, sickness or accidents only when necessary.
Statutory Holiday Pay:
4)	Waekand maintenance employees required to work on a Statutory Holiday could be paid the following ways:
a)	Receive time and one-half only for time worked and bank eight houis or one day,
11 is to be understood that bank time taken must be taken at a time agreeable to both parties and that whole days must be used.
b)	Reoeive pay for day worked as per Article 7:03.
5)	Waekand maintenance schedule employee's vacations will be schedtied by weekends.
38
work Schedule:
6)	It Is to be understood that the hours of work would be as follows:
a)	Friday, 7 am. to 3:30 p.m., mealtime excepted.
Saturday, 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m,, mealtime excepted firsts hours.
Sunday 7 am to7:3Qp.m.( mealtimeexcepted first 8 hours.
b)	Saturday, 7 am to 7:30 pm, mealtimeexceptedfirst 8 hours,
Sunday, 7 a.m. to 7:30 pm, mealtimeexcepted first 8 hours,
Monday, 7 a,m, to 3:30 p.m., mealtime excepted,
11 is further understood that the last 4 hours of work on Saturday and Sunday vJ Indude a 20 minutepald lunch period.
7)	The Company and the Union accept the principal that the intent of the maintenance seven day schedule is to eliminate outside contractors doing normal maintenance work, The Oompany will strive to uphold this prindpal during the life of this agreement.
For the Company
For the Union
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND	UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDEMANDING RE
FILLING JOB POSTINGS RE ARTICLE 12:07  
It is agreed that for permanent vacancies, the successful, serior employee of the applicants to fill the vacancy, as per existing dause 12:01, will be given preferenceto any junior employee provided that:
(a)	He had occupied that job previously and is qualifiedto meet the job requirements, or,
(b)	Should training be required to meet the job requirement, he will be allowed the necessary time of training, or
(c)	K has qualified to do the job.
(1)	There will be no limitation on upward mobility.
(2)	Lateral or down bids with reference to job postings v\J be limited to one successful bid per six month period.
When an employee bids down, prior to acceptance of the bid, discussionswith the Union may take place to reflect the effect on the operation.
If the effects lateral or dcwn bidding seriously affects the operation of the plant, the Company and the local Union agree to meet immediately and solve the problem.
The local Union committee will be advised of the successful applicant prior to placing the employee on the job.
A junior qualified employee may fill a 'vacancy temporarily while another employee is being trained.
For the Company	For the Union
40
DOMTAR INC.
M. CENTRE SAWMILL CFffKUe
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERSUNION ANDIKLOCAL31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
LAYOFFSi RECALLAFTER LAYOFF
(1)	People retain the right to their last successful bid upon job classification during a layoff situation. This becomes their" regular" classification.
(2)	Wife awaiting return to their "regular,'job classification they may bid, and if successful fill another vacancy, When a position in their "regular classification comes open, due to recall and their seniority allowsit, they will be offered the one time (tan to return. If iqected, their new classification becomes their "regular" classification.
(3)	Any job classification which requires an additional employee will not be posted as a vacancy unless there are no people remainingthat have been displaced from their "regular" classification
due to layoff. If there are no people as abcwe, the job classification will to be posted as a permanent vacancy,
(4)	Should an employee leave a job he had successfully bid upon, to return to his "regular11 classification, that job will be posted $ a vacancy unless people In that classification are also
availabledue to layoff.
For the Company
For the Union
41
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND ITS LOCAL31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING EE: FLOATINGHOUDAYS
In attempt to distribute boating holidays as fairly and as numerous at one time as possible, the following has been agreed to:
Ch any given day, floaters will be allocated by Company wide seniority but within operational aieas PI requests must be on the Personnel Supervisor's desk at least three (3) day; previous to the requestedfloater,
Floaterswill be allocated in the operational areas as follows:
Woodyard, Processor & Small log Mill
Planer
Debarker & LargeLog Mill
3 Shift Operation Six in total-one per shift, two off after 4 pm-8 am
Three in total one per shift
Two in total one per shift
2 Shift Operation Four in total-one per shift, two off after4pm- 8 am
Two in total one per shift
Two in total one per shift
Chip & Hog Fuel Drivers Electricians Millwrights 8i Set-Up Men
Mechanics
Filers
Total
One
One
Two plant wide
cm
One
17
One
One
Two plant wide
Cne
Qng
14
This has been agreed to in the ts£ interest of all personnel Involved, however, it in no way is intendedto change the existingLabour Agreement.
The cooperation of all employees and supervisory personnel is requested to make this system Work.
42
For the Company
For the Union
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
COVERALLS
The Companywlll supply tradesmen, that Is, carpenters, millwrights, mechanics, electricians, fleis and utility operators with suitable coveralls as made available by a supply servtoe of Company choice. Fifty percent (50%) of tie cost of the laundering will be borne by the employee,
Each employee would have a set of five (E) coveralls for his personal use. He would be issued a dean pair of coveralls each week upon return of this soiled pair, The Company will pay the Ul cost of laundering one (1)pair of coveralls.
The Individual employee will be responsible for loss pr damage to the coveralls for normal wear and tear; however, coveralls damaged by unforeseen arcumstances beyond his control will be replaced by the Company after inspection.
Insulatedcoveralls will be supplied by the Company when required, the cost of laundering will be paid by the Company.
43
For the Company
For the Union
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION ANDITSLOCAL31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
DISPUTED W.S.I.B. CLAIMS
It is understood that when delays in excess of fifai (15) days occur in Workers1 Compensation payments due to a dispute, the Company is prepared to advance an employee two weeks benefits to be repaidwhen payment is rece/vecf. It is understood that the two weeks payment will be equivalentto two weeks of Weekly Indemnitybenefits. It is further understood thk every two \xedc after the first advance a further two week advance will be issued until such time $ the dispute is settled and the compensation payments begin.
If a Workers' Safety and Insurance Board daim is denied, repayment to the Company will be made when the employee receives paymentthrough Weekly Indemnity.
The fifteen (15) day period will begin from the last day worked.
For the Company
For the Union
44
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND US LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
WEEKLY INDEMNITY
It is understood and agreed that any employee placed under a quarantine due to either contact with or suffering from a communicable disease will be covered by Weekly Indemnity. It is also understood and agreed that any employee who is off work for tiealment due to alcohol or drug addiction and Is underthe care of a licensed physician will be covered under Weekly Indemnity. The normal three day vtaiiig period will apply.
For the Union
For the Company
45
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND ITS LOCAL 3 i-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
MEALS
Arrangements have been made with a restaurantto deliver meals to the Sawmill. The mealswill be i n a styrofoam container and transported i n a thermal box,
The Company agrees that, unlessnotffied the previousday, an employee who is requiredto work a minimum of two (2) hours beyond his regular hours will be provided with a meal at the Company's expense. After the provision of the first meal, under this Section a hot meal will be providedevety four (4) houisthereafter at the Company's expense.
Employees who agree to work for at least twelve (12) hours in a day (excluding weekend scheduled maintenancecrews) will be provided with a meal after eight (8) hours. If an employee continues to work after twelve (12) hours, he will receive a meal every four (4) houis after the first one.
The Company will make arrangements to have a voucher available for a meal on the same day that it was earned for those employees so requesting.
The Company will provide refrigerators and microwave ovens in the following recognized lunch moms:
1)	Large Log Mill 4) Electrical Shop 7) Garage
2)	Rling Room 5) Small Log Mill
3)	Planer	6) ProcessorAnea West
Note: Processor Area East lunch momwill be inthe Small Log area.
For the Company
46
For the Union
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND IIS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
ELECTRICAL MAINTENANCE
It is the policy of the Oompany to have no one but electricians perform maintenance work on electrical equipment
Only trained electrical personnelare permittedto reset insidean electrical panel,
For the Company •
For the Union
47
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
POSTED BACK-UP POSITIONS
The Company agrees, for employees who have accepted agreed to posted back-up positions, when a permanent vacancy occurs in that position, the senior back-up employee will be promoted to fill the vacancy.
For the Company
Forthe Union
48
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND IIS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE
CLIMATIC CONTROLS
The Gompany agrees to install "Climatic Chtrols" in the following vehicles: #814, 817, 821, 832 839 and 845 by June 1,1989, Furthermore, the Gompany agrees that new mobile equipment purchased in the future, where feasible, will be quipped with "dimatic controls".
For the Company
For the Union
49
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSANDING RE
HOURS OF WORK
The following istheCompany'sInterpretation of 11:05,3rd paragraph:
An employee caled out fir overtime work will be paid a minimum of four hours at time and one-half or eight hours at time and one-half for employees working more than four hours,
An employee previously requested to work overtime before the start of his regularday or shift will be paid time and onehalf for hours worked prior to the commencementof his regular day or shift.
For the Union
50
Far the Company
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE
OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION
A.	Distribution
An overtime opportunity will first be offeredto those employees scheduledon that piece of equipment on the oppositeshift(s) with the lowestovertime.
If unableto obtain an employee, then tfteovertimeopportunity will be offered to those employeeswithin the dassification buton a differentpiece of equipment. The offer will be made to the employee^) with the skill and ability to perform the work (not requiring any training or orientation) with the lowest amount of accumulated overtime. The exceptionto this general rule is the Loader and Millwright occupations,
If still unable to secure an employee to work the overtime needed, then the supervisor will canvass the general departmentalworkforce who possess the skill and abilityto perform the work (not requiring training or cdatatim). The offerwill be madeto the senior employee(s) with the lowestaccumulated overtime.
Where tB Company has avoidedovertime by assigning labourers to meet fe need and an insufficient number of labourers are available thereby necessitating an overtime requirement; the overtime in such circumstances shall be offeredto employees in the classification with the leastnumber of overtimehours worked month to date.
Equalization of overtime as cfescribed ini) above shall be effected daily; shall be based on time actually agreed to work (not on the basis of time earned or offered) and shall occur amongst employees in the classification in which the need for overtime arises.
B.	Classifications
i)	As used throughout this document a classification means the job encompassed by the specific occupation code and rate established therefore as set out in Schedule "B" to the collective agreement and such additional classifications as may mutually agreed to by ffrellnionand the Company.
51
ii)	For the purpose of this document an employee's dassifirahou Is the dassitication to which he has been ^eduled to work for the week.
iii)	For the pur^se of this document an employee who has been	at
Company's request to another dassifiation for the majority of his ^worl<day, shall considered to fall within the classitication to which he was transferred and not cla^icatlon from which he was tran^sferred for the purpose of (overtime distht^ida as proved for above.
C.	Weekend Overtime Lists
A sign up sheet will be pasted in the Security Office each Monday at noon. Em^ployees wishing to be conferred for any weekend overtime must sign this list. Em^ployees may indicate whether they wish to be	only for o^erredities in they department
and/or plant-wide. They may also indicate their desire to be ^scheduled for 8 or 12 hour shifts.
The list will be taken down each Thursday at 7:00 A.M.
Those employees shown on this list will have their accumulated (overtime hours padded beside their name. The (overtime hours to be used for each employee will be these in the Company's payroll system as of noon on Thursday.
Based upon the relative accumulated overtime for each employee any weekend overtime work available will be a^ssigned to those employees listed. This overtime will be work falling outside of a dassificahou scheduled for a given week to be	on the
weekend. It is further u^nderstend that these overtime lists are for the sole pu^ica of determining availability of Employees for weekend overtime and for providing the equalization of such (overtime.
Assignments will be based upon each employee's skill, efficiency and ability to (^perform the required assignments.
The finalized list will be p^ted by 2:00 P.M. Thursday at the Security (Office.
Departments will also be sent a copy of the assignment sbeet for posting. If the Company's requirements for overtime change, an a^mended overtime ^schedule will be ^ted by noon on Friday. If an em^yee is affected by a ^edule change after the list is p^ted on Thursday s/he will be notified. An employee ^eduled to work on the weekend will be charged the (Responding hours at the time for the purpose of additional (overtime distribution.
52

the shift starling time, If they are unable to attend work. When such is not possible, the employee ny use the established practice of absence reporting through the Security department, Employees rat reportingfor work as scheduled will be changed the corresponding number of overtime hoursexceptwhen the Company cancels the overtime that had been scheduled.
Any overtime worked by thoseemployees on the listafter midnight of each Wednesday that was not known at noon cn Thursday will not he considered 1 the distribution of
overtime tor that weekend.
The overtime hours in the Company's payroll system will be deemed to be accurate for the purpose of this procedure. In addition any overtime assignments that have been accepted but not yet worked by an employee will be added to their accumulated
overtime shown on the Payroll system.
For the Company
For the Union
53
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND IIS L0CAL31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: OVERTIME WELDING
It is agreed and understood that when there is non-structural, ie. straight fiat welding required such that contractors would otherwise be utilized (as per artide 3:01 fbT and 3:02 fbl then our employees would be eligible for that wori< under the following conditions:
To be eligible,
1.	the position(s) will be posted as ie: artide 12:07
2.	the employee must rot be on their regular shift
3.	the overtime would have to have been offered first to people within the following groups, provided that they are also rot on their regular shift:
1.	tradespeople
2,	apprentice tradespeople
Based on anticipated requirements: this group will be limited to a maximum of five (5) people distribution of overtime welding within this group will be based on equalization.
While the employee is performingwelding, he/she will
The employee will receive the reasonableon site training necessary to perform these duties.
Wien an apprentice tradesperson is performing welding, they will receive the higher welding rate for unscheduled overtime,
54
For the Union
For the Company
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION ANDIT5LOCAL31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: LUMBER GRADERS
For E.B, Eddy to retain permission by C.LA. to use their Ibense, grading practices must be in compliance to their mles and guidelines • loss of the license would eliminate opportunities to marketour lumber.
The grader classification cannot be compromised for any reason and in order to ensure consistent
quality and customer satisfaction this letter of understanding states
Terms agreed upon in this letter pertain to aiadeisonlv and are not applicablein any way to any otheroperation.
For the purposeof this letter, C.L.A. license relates to Class A & B without distinction.
1,	Only licensed graders will hold a permanent bid; other openings wi be filled from the recognized “Back-Up" bid by seniority. Licensed graders will have priority in Grading; as of the date of this letter of understanding. The fcensed grader rate will only be paid after a C.L.A, licensels obtained and training complete,
2.	a) I n a by off situation when more senior (non graders) employees would be l±J off, senior non-bid licensed graders will be considered to fill grader requirements (by way of a temporary bid) providing such Individuals can fulfill the training requirements in the agreed-to designated time; training to be conducted as stated below, (3)
b) When a lay off is deemed to be longer than 10 weeks (qual to the training period), the more senior non gradere who would otherwise be laid off wi be given an opportunity to train and work as a grader for the duration of that by off (similar to temporary bid in 2 a) above).
55
3.	Training for ngw grader bidswillbe:
week one - study C.L.A. grading rules regulations with minimalon-linetrainirtg
weektwo - 5&ns as week one with increased time on the table
week three- on table most of time as extra grader to view procedures and practice rules
week four- week long C.L.A. training with theC.L.A. test
C.LA Test: I f unsuccessful, repeat week one through four prior to C.LA testing and if unsuccessful again to the person is returned to previous job and may apply for the grader bid only upon the next posting.
4.	"B" licensed graders wi be required to write each C,L,A. test until the "A" license is obtained. A peimanentbtd grader within the classification will remain on the table unti after 2 consecutive failuresof the C.L.A. tests ■ training will be supplied to ensue individuals are properly prepared.
5.	A QUALTTY/GRADING COMMITTEE will be established to manage the training program and any quality concerns ongoing; the class "A" license recognitionwill be a high priority project.
For the Company
For the Union
56
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGYAND	UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
MANAGEMENTOF THE LABOUR POOL
Once the manning schedule has been completed Wednesday and all planned vacandes of a week's duration for the following week have to filled, four additional employees will be assignedlnto ffeschedule.
The Labour Pool will consist of four employees. The employees in the labour pod will be assigned to a specific shiflfor the work week and shall be utilized by departments based on need. The employees in the Labour pod shal be assigned to a weekly work schedule In an equitable
manner.
These employees will be availablefor woik assignmentsplantwide.
If fewer than b u r (4) employees are left in the labour pod after the planned vacancies have beenfilled, there is no requirementto hireon additional employees.
This understanding does not apply to students.
Once the following steps have to completed and there are still employees in the labour pool who have rat been scheduled, they wi be given their notice of layoff as per Artide 12:03,
57
For the Company
For the Union
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: MANAGEMENT OF TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
The Company and the Union recognize that technological charge, while necessary to the industry, may have an impact on manpower and employment levels. In order to address fess concerns, the parties agree to the following guidelines in addressing technological changes.
Technological change means the introduction by the employer in its operations of equipment different in nature, type or quantity from that previously utfeed by the employee, a charge in the operation related to the introduction of that equipment or a modification of existing equipmentcurrently in use in the workplace which affects one or more employees,
Any disagreements to whether or not a manpower reduction is attributable to technological change shall be subject to the grievance procedure, It is understood that any grievances of this nature will be dealt with in the same fashion as a discharge case,
58
For the Company
For the Union
DOMTARING
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
C0HMJNICAT10NS, BIBTGYAND PAPERWORXERS UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 31-X
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
EXTENDED PRODUCTION SCHEDULE
The parties agree that this Letter of Understanding and the specific provisions cited below shall identify, amend and supersede the Collective Agreement as it relates to an extended production schedule for three (3) mUPwide production crews. The parties agree that the provisions of litis Letter of Understanding can be amended by mutual agreement
1.	An extended production schedule win have three production crews; two crews will be scheduled Monday to Thursday, inclusive, on ten (10) hours shifts per day (a day crew and a night crew) and forty (40) hours per week and a third crew will be scheduled Friday to Sunday, inclusive, on twelve (12) hour shifts per day (day shift only) and thirty-six (36) hours per week.
2.	The houis of work shall be In accordance with the following:
"For a crew scheduled Monday to Thursday, the day shift shall consist of ten (10) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00a.m. The night shift shall consist of fen (10) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence between 7:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. and shall cany a shift differential of $0.57.
For a crew scheduled Friday to Sunday, the shift shall consist of twelve (12) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. Employees will be paid time and one half for all hours worked on Sunday up to twelve (12) hours."
3.	Article 7:02 (b)w«l be deemed to be amended to read:
"Hourty employees will be compensated for eight (8) times their hourly rate for the day of the statutory hdday if they are net scheduled to work on that day. If the employee was scheduled to work on the Statutory HoSday he will receive the equivalent amount of his regular shift's pay. If he was requested and works on the Statutory Holiday he will receive pay for the day worked as per Article 7:03."
59
4.	This Letter of Understanding will supersede the provisions of Article 11:01 (a).
5.	Article 11:05 will be deemed to be amended to read:
'Time worked outside an employee's scheduled shift or work weekand tie first eight (8) hours on Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a Sunday, except for production employeesscheduled to the twelve-hour production schedule."
6.	Article 16:01 will be deemed amended to read that the provisions of this Article will provide for payments as stipulated provided that they do not exceed forty (40) houis perweekfor an immediatefamily member and twenty-four (24) houis per week for the remaining individualsdted.
7.	Article 17:01 will be deemed amended to read that in the case of an employee who is called for jury seivice, subpoenaed witness or crown witness, the Company shall pay for each day of servioe, an allowanceequal to the difference between the employeesscheduled hour; of work for that day based on his regularstraight time hourly rate and the payment he received far jury service up to a maximum total of forty (40) hours of work for the week
8.	The partiesagree that there shall beno differentiatingbetween the 'Friday to Sunday1 production ciew and the 'Monday to Thursday1 production crew for the purpose of exercising the rightsof employees under Artide 12 and Others,
9.	Floating holidays® stipulated in Article 7:01 will be deemed to equal eight (8) times the employeesregular straight time wage
10.	The parties agree that there shall be two ten (10) minutecoffee break, for the ten (10) hour shift schedule, There shall be a twenty (20) minutepaid lunch break and two ten (10) minute coffee beekon the twelve (12) hour schedule.
When te Company is successful in implementinga continuous operation through the coffee break period, the Company ispreparedto schedule a third ten (10) minutecoffee break on the ten hour shift schedule,
60
For the Company
For the Union
DOMTARINC,
NAIRNCENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 31-x NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE:
FOUR CREWMAINTENANCE SCHEDULE
The parties agree that this Letter of Understandingand specific provisions cited below shall identify, amend and supersede theCoBective Agreement as It relates to a Four Crew Maintenance Schedule. The parties agree Ihat provistons of Oils Letter of Understanding can b e a d by mutualagreement
1.	The maintenance schedule will have four crews; a day oewwil be scheduled from 7:00 am. to 7:30 p.m., mealtime excepted. A night crewwil be scheduled from
7:00 p.m. . 7:30 a.m., mealtime excepted and shall cany a shift differential of $0.57 as per tfie attached work schedule.
Employees will be paid time and one half h a 11 hours woriced on Sunday up to twelve (12) hours,
2.	Article 7:02 (b) will be deemed to be amendedto read:
"Hourty employees will be compensated for eight (8) times their hourly rate for the day of the statutory hoUday If they are not scheduled to work on that day. lithe employee was scheduled to work on fteStatutory Holiday he will receive the equivalent amount of Ns regular shift's pay. If he was required to work on a Statutory Holiday he wW reoeive pay far the day wotted as per Article 7:03 or receive time and onehalf only for time wotted and bank eight hours or one day.
It is understood that the banted time taken must be taken at a time agreeable to both parties and that whole days must be used,"
3.	This Letter of Understanding vd supersede the provisions of Ardde 11:01 (a)
61
4.	The first paragraph of Article 11:05 will be deemed to be amended to lead:
"Time worked outside an employee'sscheduled shift or work week and the first eight (E) hours on Sunday shall be paid for at Iterate of time and one-half.
Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a Sunday except as provided in #1 above."
5.	Article 16:01 will be deemed amended to read that the provisions of this Artide will provide for paymentsas stipulated provided that they do not exceed forty (40) hours per week for an immediate family member and twenty-four (24) hours per week for the remaining individuals cited.
6.	Article 17:01 will be deemed amended to read that in the case of an employee who is called for jury service, subpoenaed witness or crown witness, the Company did pay for each day of service, an allowance equal to the difference between the employees scheduled hours of work for that day basedcn his regular straight time hourly rateand the payment he received for jury rrieup to a maximumtotal of forty (40) hours of work for the week.
7.	Floating holidays as stipulated in Artide 7:01 will be deemed to equal eight (8) times feemployees regular straighttime wage.
8.	The parties agreethat there shall be a twenty (20) minute paid lunch break and two ten (10) minute coffee breaks on the twelve (12) hour schedule.
62
For the Company
For the Union
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS*
UNION
AND n LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE:
JOB GROUPINGS
The partiesagreeto the following provisions in order to facilitate the implementationof the New
Job Groupings. The parties agreethat if at any time during the duration of the current
Collective Agreement a significantproblem arconcem arises or a new position Is created, the
partiesagreeto meetand discuss the issue fully. Where mutually agreeable, the partiescan
amend the Job Groupings detailed withinthe Letter of Understanding.
1.	Al employees within a particular lob Grouping will fully participate in tfejob rotation unless a particular emplpyee has provided the Company acceptabledocumenfation confirming his inabilityto perform a particulartask(s), Snh employees will not receive the Wage Rstefbr the Job Grouping but would rather be paid i n accordance with ttieprevious classification structure.
2.	The Company will ensure that all employeesare fully trained under the current training mechanisms, including health and safety prior to being deemed as qualified on each and every formerjob classification in a particular Job Grouping. Employees shall receivetheJob Grouping V\fege Rate immediately.
3.	At the fin* of posting a vacancy within a particular Job Grouping, the posting will referencethe specific vacancy from the former job classification structure and the particular job classifications contained within the Job Grouping,
4.	The rotation schedule within a particular Job Groupingwill bedetermlned byte employees within that Job Grouping and as agreed with the respective supervisor,
As a general principle such rotations shall occur once per quarter shift
5.	TheJobGroupingswillbearspresentedbytheGompary. The 'New' Log Preparation Area requires four positions per shift. The Companyis preparedto reccgnize the skills and transferability of the incumbentsin the former Debarker and UtilityOperator classifications In older that they may assume two of the newly created
positions per shift. The remainingtwo positions per shift will be posted in accordance with the provisions of Article 12.
6.	Thecurrentincumbents intheTrimmermanposition shall maintain their existing wage rate and will receive any Increases negotiated by the Union until such time as they vacate the position or retire.
63
For the Company
For the Union
JOB GROUPINGS:
The employees wW rotate withbi the following job groupings.
SAWMILL
Current
Current Position	Job Groups	Bate
chipper Canter	Sawyer	$21.48
Flow Person	Sawyer	$21.28
Uflf Operator-Log Handling	Mobile Equipment	$19.89
Lift Operator-Lumber	Mobile Equipment	$19.89
Trimmerman	Machine Operator	$20.92
Primary sorter	Machine Operator	$20.01
Esterer Operator	Machine Operator	$20.02
Debater Operator Utility Operator Step Feeder (New) chaser (New)
Log Preparation	$19.90
Log Preparation	$20.13
Log Preparation	n/a
Log Preparation	n/a
One Inch Line Greenchain
dean up
labourer	$19,17
Labourer	$19.27
Labourer	$19.17
Stacker Man Bin Man Sticker Placer
Labourer	$19.59
Labourer	$19.35
Labourer	$19.27
PI ANPP
Current Position
Licensed Grader
current
Job Groups	Rate
LicensedGrader	$22.18
Infeed Operator	Machineoperator2	$21.74
nit Hoist operator	MachineOperator2	$21.74
Lift Operator-Lumber	Mobile Equipment	$19.89
Handpull Loader	Mobile Equipment	$20.01
Package Maker	Labourer
Strapper operator	Labourer
dean Up	Labourer
$20.00
$19.74
$19.17
Heede Crane Operator Dry Kiln lead
ChpTruck Driver Licensed Trades
Heede Crane Operator	$22.68
Dry Kiln lead	$21.10
ChpTruck Driver	$20.36
Licensed Trades	$23.58
64
IwBMf
Rate
$21.48
$21.48
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
New
Rate
$22.20
$21.75
$21.75
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$20.15
$22.68
$21.10
$20.36
$23.58
DOMTARINC,
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMM UNICATIONS,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION
AND ITS LOCAL31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OFUNDERSTANDING RE:
ARTICLE XIX - SEVERANCE PAY
The Company has announced to the Un ton that a major downsizingof the sawmill will take place Immediatelyafter ratification. This will requirea downtime of the Sawmill of upto approximately 18 weeks
The Company will identify the employees from the active payroll as of October 6, 2000, who will not be subject to a recall before January 1,2002 asa resultof the downsizing of the operation and the implementationof the extended production schedule.
It has been determinedthatthe Company will need a total complement of approximately 170 employees (Including those for vacation replacement leaves of absence and scheduled to the labour Pool) on the start up of the extended production schedule.
Eligible laid off employees are those employees whose position on the seniority list, after removing those names of employees retiring under the special downsizing retirement window and provision for the extended production schedule, will fall below theexpected recalseniority, l.e. an employee whose position is most likely to beabolished. Empbyeeswho are negatively Impacted by downsizing if the Company fails to implement the Extended Production Schedule by Januaiy 1, 2002, deadline will be considered "Eligible Laid Off Employees"
Eligible laid off employees also Indude employees who accept to retire during the special retirementwindow that will start on date of ratification and srl on August 31,2001, and who have opted out of the temporary supplement provided under the Letter of Understanding“Spedal downsizing retirementwindcw1;.
Eligible laid off employees will havetheoption of:
a)	A severance payment under Artjce XIX of the Collective Agreement
or
b)	A severance payment equivalentto two (2) weeks of pay per year of service at their standard hourly rate up to a maximum of 26 weeks
65
Eligible bid cff employees who elect qtiai a) will maintaintheir recall right for the durationof this Collective Agreement.
Eligiblelaid off employees who elect option b) will forfeit their recall right under the collective Agreement effective the date of election.
Those employees onLT.D. and W.S.I.B. am not eligible for any Severance Payment mcferthis tetter of Understanding.
For the Company
For the Union
66
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS'
UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE:
SPECIAL DOWNSIZING RETIREMENTWINDOW
In order to minimizethe effectsof downsizing and to limit the number of employees whose positionwill be eliminated, a special temporary window of retirementwill be opened from the date of ratificationuntil August 31rt, 2001 during which employees
a)	who were actively em ployed as of October 8#l, 2000 or who have notified tie the Company of their return to work priorto May 3,2001; and
b)	who are then age 58; and
c)	have then reached 20 years of continuous service; and
d)	who elect to retireon or before September, 2001
will be eligiblefor a special lifetime monthly supplement pension of $8 per year of pensionable service in additionto an unreduced basicpenslon as perthe pension plan. Such supplement will be governed by the same rules as for the basic pension except that the pension will not be reduced for early retirement.
This special supplement is introducedforthe sole purposeofcompensatingforttie shorter period of pensionableservlce recognized by the contributory portion of the pensionprogram and in consideration for the downsizing.
Employees retiring underthis special window will also be eligible for the temporary monthly bridging benefit of $15 per year of pensionableservlce to a maximumofthiiiy (30) years. The bridging supplement will apply from date of retirement until age 65.
Such retiring employees may however opt out of the special supplement i n order to benefit from a retiring allowanceequivalentto the severance payment for eligible laid off employees, as defined in the Letter of Understanding on Severance. I n this case, the retiree will still be eligiblefor an unreduced pension and the $15 monthly bridging benefit from date of retirement until age 65.
Those employeeson L.T.D. and W.S.I.B, are not eligible for the Early Retirement Window.
67
For the Company
For the Union
at '	_____ , Ontario, on this 5 day
of__________________, 2001,
FortheJlnifln	For the Company
D.tacaSi I	T.
/?._-Ji.. ^	•92mj±a^_
R. Thibeault	M. McCulloch
68
SCHEDULE "E'
GENERAL INFORMATION
PIANEFFECTIVE DATE
The benefitsdescribed inthisbooklet are in effect as of September^ 2000,
ELIGIBILITY
Ail full-time hourly employees who are members of the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Unionand itsLocal 31-X areeligible to participate inthisplan.
I fyou have dependentsyou may insure them as well. Your spouse is eligible and your unmarried children (including adopted, foster and stepchildren). Dependent children are insured up to age 21.
Any mentally retarded or physically handicapped children may remain insured past the maximum age provided the child is incapableof self-sustaining employment and is wholly dependertM you for supportand maintenance.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVERAGE
You become eligible for Life Insurance after having completed30 work daysof continuous active full-time employmentand Long Term Disability immediately upon becoming insured for Weekly Indemnity benefits.
Your Weekly Indemnity coverage, and that of your dependents, is effective after having completed 30 work days of continuous active full-lime employment Your Dental coverage, as well as your dependents', is effective on the dateyou complete a waiting period of 90 work days <x service for full-time employment.
YoirMedical, Surgical, Drugand HospitalCaieplans, and that ofyardependents, iseffecdve on the first day of the fourth month following thedateyou were employed for U limeandtl pay.
I fyou are actively insured for personal coverage and later acquire a dependent, you may enroll your dependent Inthe Health planby notifying the Personnel Office.
I f you are not actively at work on the date your Weekly Indemnity, Medical, Dental or Vision coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on your return to work for lull time and full pay.
I f one of your dependents is hospitalized on the date Medical coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commenceon the day following discharge from the hospital.
69
HOW TO OBTAINTHE INSURANCE
To obtain the Insurance described in this booklet, you should complete and sign all necessary application cards, No medical examination Is requiredfar you If you apply far the Insurance within the times stated,
I FYOU LEAVE OUR EMPLOY
Your group insuranoewill terminated you leave our employ. You have the right to change your Life Insurance to an Individual policy as available by the earner.
LIFE INSURANCE
DEATH BENEFIT
I n the event of your death from any cause, your Life Insurance under the Plan will be paid to tie beneficiary you have named, I f you have named more than one beneficiary and one of those beneficiaries should die before you, his <r her share of the insurance will be paid to the surviving beneficiaries or if there is none, it will be paid to yxr estate.
The amount of your Life Insurance is $60,000.00, I n no evert shall yoir insurance continue beyond your date of retirement.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT BENEFIT
lt|s the result of an accident, you suffer any of the losses listed below within 90 days of the accident, payment will be made as indicated, The principal amount of your Acddent Death and Dismemberment Insurance is an amount of your Group Life Insurance,
LOSS OF:
-	Life.
-	Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of both eyes,
•	Both hands by severance at or above wrist joints.
■ Both feet by severance at or above anklejoirrts.
•	One hand or one foot by severance at or above wrist or ankle joints respectively, together with the total and irrecoverable loss of sight tf one eye.
•	Loss of one hand and one foot by severance at or above wrist and ankle joint3 respectively. One-half of the Principal Amount shall be payable for
-	Loss of one hand by severanceat or above wrist joint.
-	Loss of one foot by severance at or above anklejoint.
•	Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye,
70
1.	If more than one of the losses specified In the Schedule of Losses and Indemnities shown above shall be sustained by the employee as a result of any one accident; payment shal not exceed fe Principal Amount- of Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance on the employeeat the date of such accident,
2.	If an employee has suffered prior to the date of becoming Insured hereunder, or does thereater suffer, the loss of one hand by severance at or above the wrist Joint or one foot by severance at u above the ankle joint, or the total and irrecoverable loss of the sight of one eye, the Accidental Death and Dismembermentlnsurance at the Schedule d Insurance provided that he amount of Insurancepayabte for the lossofone hand, one foot, or the sight of one eye shall be one-half the principal amount of the Insurance.
3.	The Insuranceshall not cover accident, injury, death or other loss which shall result either directly or indirectly, from anyone of the following;
(a)	self-destruction or self-inflicted Injuries while sane or insane;
(b)	committingor attempting to commit an assaultor criminal offence;
(c)	riot, civil commotion, Insurrection, war or hostilitiesof any kind, or any act Incident thereto;
(d)	bodily or mental infirmity or Illness or disease of any kind;
(e)	the inhalation of gas of any kind, voluntarily or otherwise, resulting in poisoning, asphyxiation or any other conditioncauslng death;
(9 poisoning or infection, other than infections occurring simultaneously with and in oonsequenoeof an accidental cntor wound;
(g)	Injuries of which there is no visible contusion or wound on the exterior of the body, unless drowning or internal Injuries are revealed by autopsy;
(h)	participating In aeronautics other than as permitted under the canters policy.
CONVERSION PRIVILEGE
When your Insurancetermlnates because of termination of your employment, you will ha/e the privilege of converting your Life Insurance, within the next31 days without medical examination, to a new policy on any of the carrias regular plans for an amount not exceeding the amount of your Group Life Insurance.
I fyou die during the 31 day period in which you might haveexercised this conversion privilege, your beneficiary will be paid the amount of Life Insurancewhich you would ha/v been entitled to convert.
71
LONGTERM DISABILITY INSURANCE
DISABILITY
During the first year of income payments your disability must prevent you from performing any and every duty relating to your regular job or engaging in any oocupaBon or performing ary work in the sawmill. After that time you will be considered totally disabled if you are unable to engage in any occupation or perform In any work in the sawmill for which the carrier considers you to be reasonably qualified by education, training or experience. However, if you arewofking or engage in any occupation fr wage or profit other than rehabilitative employment approved by the carrier, you will not be considered to be totally disabled.
BASIC MONTHLY EARNNGS
Your regular monthly earnings on which your benefit will be based will exdude overtime pay, bonuses and other special compensation $ at the date you become disabled.
BENEFIT
If you become totally disabled beforeyou are 65 and your disability lasts longer than 52 weeks of benefits under the employer’s Weekly Indemnity Plan, you will be paid a monthly Incomewhich is payable at the end of each month of disability as long $ you are disabled but not beyond age 65 and in no event for more than the number of completed months equal to the employee's service. You must be under treatment by a licensed physician to receive benefits.
The amount of income for which you are eligible will be reduced $ follows:
1,	By any payment for loss of time to which you are entitled from the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board and Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, excluding any payment in respect of your children.
2,	Further reductions will be made so that the amount you would receive from the earner and from any other sources (any other group, association and governmental insurance, sick leave or retirement plan of your employer) does not exceed 85% of your bask monthly earnings.
Generally, your monthly benefit is considered taxable income. If it is not taxable, the 85% limit would apply to your basic earnings after deductions have been made for incometax and pension plan.
Estimates of disability income from any of these sources will be used until the actual benefits have been established.
72
IF A DISABILITY RECURS
If you become totally disabled again within six months due to the same or related cause and not W i n g any Income disability benefits, payments will commence again without the necessity of completingthe 52 weeks Disabilities occurring after the six month period will be treated as If no
prior disability had occurred and the 52 week period must be completedagain.
GENERAL
The group insurance policy must be in force when your disability commences but paymentswill continue wen if the policy is terminated as long as you remain disabled.
LIMITATIONS
Coverage is made as broad as possible. However, exclusions indude self-inflicted injury; disabilities resulting from riot, civil commotion, Insurrection, war or hostilities of any kind, or active duty In any armed service during a time of war.
WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
I fyou are totally disabled, unable to work, and under the continuing care of a physician, you will receive a weekly Income not exceeding 70% of your weekly earnings. Your benefits will commence on the earlier of:
1.	The fourth day of disabilitycaused by sickness,
2.	The first day of a disabilitydue to an accident,
3.	The first day of hospitalization.
Duringanyoneperiod of disabilityyour benefitswili continue untilyou recover or for a maximum of 52 weeks, whichever Is earlier.
The Company and/or theinsuierreserve therightto requirean independent medical examination to confirm the employee’sabsence. due to disability. Such an examination shall be condudedby aphysidan or physicians agreeable,$ theemployee and the Company.
Any dispute arising between the Company and/or the insurer's physician and the employee's physician will be resolved by aphysidan (preferably a specialist) chosen by the Company and the Union.
Cost of such physical examinations, medical documents, transportation and reasonatte out-ofpocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the Company and/or insurer An employee wil continue to receive W.I, benefits or the equivalent from the Company while he/she is awaiting such examination(s).
73
EXCEPTIONSAND LIMITATIONS
Disability benefits are not payable for the following;
L A disability caused by seff-lnfilcted Injuries or illness.
2.	A disability resulting from insurrection, war, service In the armed forces of any country, or participation In a riot
3.	A disability due to any cause at any time when you are on pregnancy leave of absence or could be piked on such kve by your employer h accordance v#i the relevant Provincial Statues or that agreed upon by you and yxr employer.
4.	For any disability for which you are atitled to benefits under any Workplace Safety and Insurance Act,
5.	At any time when you are on vacation and receiving full pay.
HEALTH CARE BENEFITS
DRUG COVERAGE
Tour drug plan coverage, and that of yxr dependents, is effective on the frrefday of the second month following the date you were employed for full time and full pay Drugs, serum, and injecdbles purchased on a prescription of a medical doctor, except for vitamins and vitamin preparations (unless Injected) and patent or proprietary medicines are eligible for coverage by this drug plan and available by presenting your personal Identification cand supplied by the carrier and a 354 deductible fee per prescription.
HOSPITALCOVERAGE
Your Provincial Health Plan provides ward coverage for in-hospital accommodation. This additional coverage allows you, and your dependenls, semi-private in-hospital accommodation. This semi-private hospital coverage is effective on the first day of the fourth month following the date you were employed for full-time and full pay
DENTAL BENEFIT
Cn behalf of each covered Individual In your family, the Dental Benefit will reimburse you for denial expenses based on the percental indicated by the earner. The maximum amount payable per individual for services Is $1,000.00 Effective September 1, 2001, the maximumamountpayable per individualforservices is $1,500.00
TREATMENT PLAN
In order for you and your dentist to learn in advance how much the earner will pay and hew much must be paid by you it Is recommended that a Treatment Plan be filed with the earner whenever the total cost of the proposed dental work is expected to exceed $200.00, The Treatment Plan identifies coverage and limitations for specific services and clarifies insurance
percentages, specific limits and Denial Fee Guide allowance before dental treatment commences. The Treatment Plan Is not intended to limit you in your choice of dentist, to tell you or your dentist what treatment should be performed or to tell the dentist what fee to charge,
74
A Treatment Plan is a plan of denial treatment(lnduding x-rays if required) shewing the patient's dental needs, a written description of the proposed treatment necessary In the professional judgement of the dentast, and tecost of the proposed treatment.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
Eligible expenses are these which are recommended as necessary by a physician or dstist that are not In excess of the fee specified for general practitioners In the 1987 Dental or Denturist Fee Guide of the Province of Ontario, Fees for specialists wi be considered f the patient was referred by a physician or another dentist There are several dental procedures which are covered by Provincial Health Plans up to certain maximums If the dentist or dental surgeon chooses to charge more than that payable by the Provincial Plan, legislation In some provinces does not permitthe excess charges to be eligible under this Plan.
Situations may arise where alternate methods of treatment may be available. It is solely for you and your dentist to decide which method wi be employed. The canierieserves the rightto use the least expensive method of treatment that would provide a professionally adequate lesUt as the basis for determining their liability.
Only thesetreatments listedareellgible.
The following treatmenlsare payableat 100%
EXAMINATIONS:
Initial examination of a new patient
(once every 3 years)....................................OHIO, 01120,01130
Re-examination of a previous patient
(once every 6 months).................................................01200
Specific examination..................................................01400
Emergency examination and/or consulate!	............01300,94400
94100,94200
CONSULTATIONS
Treatment planning - per	unit of time.................................05100
With patient.........................................................05200
Another dentist......................................................93100
SPECIFICDIAGNOSnC PROCEDURES: Bacteriology cultures for determinate!
of pathologic agents .......... 1
Dental caries susceptibility test.,
Biopsy, soft-hard tissue.
Cytological examination Pulp vitality tests............
04100 04200 04300,04310 04330 04400
75
OTHER ENDODONT1CPROCEDURES:
(PREPARATION OF TOOTH FOR TREATMENT)
Gingival curettage.....................................................39100
Alveolectomy...........................................................39110
Bandingof tooth to maintain sterile
operating field	■	..........................39120
Hemistm.....................ZZ.Z...................39210,39220,39230,39300
Chemical bleaching only
per unit of time.......................................................39400
Intentional removal, apical filling
and reimplantation.................................39501, 39502, 39503, 39600
Emergency procedures ..............................39901, 39902, 39903, 39904
39910,39940,39960, 39970 ..... .........................................   39980,39985
SURGICAL SEFMCES:
Surgical exposure of tooth...............................72410, 72411, 72412
Transplantation of a ta_ ..............................................32430
Surgical repositioning of a tooth......................................72440
Enucleation of an unerupted tooth
and follicle.............................................................72450
Alveoplasty-per unit of time............................................73100,	73110
Gingivoplasty and/or stomatoplasty......................................73119,	73120
Osteoplasty - perunltof time	.............73133, 73134, 73135
.........................................................23140,	73141
Surgical excision...................................74108, 74109, 74408, 74409
Surgical incision.......................................................75100,	75110
Fractures	76198,76210,76250,76310
ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ'Z.....................26350, 76910, 76950, 76951
Frenectomy...............................................77800,77810, 78110
Miscellaneous surgical services	.................79104, 79301, 79302, 79303
79304, 79305, 79306, 79307 ....	79308,39401, 79601, 79602
ZZZZZZZZZ..ZZZZZ.....................................29603,	79604
Adjunctive general services -
drugs (injections).................................................96100,96101
The following treatments are payable at 50%:
PROSTHETIC SERVICES:
Complete maxillary denture
(once every 3 years).....................................................51100
Complete mandibulardenture
(once every 3 years).....................................................51110
Completemaxillary and mandibular
dentures (once every 3 years)	51120, 51300, 51310, 51320
........................ 51600, 51610, 51620
78
Removable partial dentures
Denture adjustments...
Denture repairs.......
Denture rebasing, relining
52120,52121, 52230, 52231, 52400,52410, 52520,52525, 52535, 52600,
m'B'o, 54300," 55101,55102, 55201,55202, 55520, 56200,56201, 56220, 56221, 56260, 56261, 56270,56271,
52220, 52221 52320, 52321 52500, 52510 52530,52531 52610,52630 52800 54301,54302 55103; 55104 55203,55204 55530, 55700 56210, 56211 56230, 56231 56262, 56263 56272, 56273
The following treatments are payable at 50%:
ORTHODONTIC SERVICES PRE-TREATMENTDIAGNOSTICSERVICES:
Diagnostic Models, X-Rays	................... 4530,2701,2702
'	2703, 2704, 2705
Cephalometric WorK^up.................... ..........................2750
PREVENTIVE & irfreRCEPTIVE '^THODONTflcS:...........................
Habit Inhibiting.................................82101,82102,82201,82202
Space regaining	...................81105,81106, 81201
........	....................... 81202, 81251,81252
Space Maintenance""""""."!.......................15100,15110,15120,15400
Cross Bite Correction, etc..............................81261,81203,81204
.................	81205,81206
CORRECTIVE ORTHODONTICS: Removable 8i Fixed Appliance Therapy
Retention....
81115, 81116,81120 81125,81126,81130 81131,81140,81207 81208,81209,81210 81211,81212, 81213 83214 83111,83112
79
VISION CARE BENEFIT
If, while rsued, you incur Vision Care expenses for yourself or for a covered dependent you wl be pad benefits In an amount equal to sudi Vision Care services, subject to the following provisions.
The following services when prescribed by a licensed physidan or licensed optometrist shall be covered, but not to exceed $150.00, in any 24 month period effective the first of the month following date of ratifidation.
1.	Loises and frames for eyeglasses, sun^assesand safety glasses.
2.	Contact lenses.
3.	Services and materials in connection with vision training and orthopics.
4.	servicesand materials in connection with medical or surgical treatment,
5.	Replacement of lost, stolen or broken eyeglass lenses or eyeglass frames.
No benefits are payableforamounts charged for ary of the following services:
I.	Services rendered before the insurance on account of the person who receives sudi services became effective.
2.	Services received because of ary injury arising out of or in the course of ary employment for wage or profit or sickness entitling the covered person to benefits under ary Workers'
Compensation or Occupational Disease Law.
3.	Services for examinations for the purpose of prescribing or fitting of eyeglasses, sunglasses or safety glasses.
4.	Services to the extent that such services or benefits for such services are available under any
plan or program established pursuant to the laws or regulations or ary Government and ary services to the extent that any Government prohibits payment of insurance benefits therefore.
5.	services to the extent that they or benefits therefore are provided under ary other group insurance plan or prepayment plan or for which benefits are otherwise provided miter the group policy.
6.	Services for which the peison receiving them is not required to make payment <r where payment is receivedas a result of legal action or settlement.
IF YCU LEAVE CUR EMFLCY
Your Vision Care Benefit will cease 31 days after leaving our employ if you have received V i Care services as specified, as a direct result of a complete eye esraminalion.
80