and
IWA- CAW ADA. - LOCAL 2693
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
1
2
9
10 11 12
13
H
15
16
17
18
PURPOSE................................
RECOGNITION OF THE UNION...............
With respect to Workers. . ............
Mechanical Cutting.....................
Transportation of Roundwood and Gravel.
UNIONSECURITY..........................
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS......................
UNION COMMITTEE........................
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE....................
ARBITRATION.............................
DISCIPLINARY MEASURES..................
CONTINUITY OF WORK.....................
HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK..............
SENIORITY..........................
STAFF CHANGE8..........................
Job Open ings and Postings.............
Probationary Period....................
Limitationof Application Right.........
Promotion Refusal......................
Teispotairy	..................
Lay-Off................................
Transportation of Roundwood............
Change of Address......................
New Position...........................
JOB TRAINING PROGRAM...................
ABSENCES................................
Absences for Funerals..................
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS..............
New Classification.
HOLIDAYS.
PAID HOLIDAYS.
WORKSCHEDULEANDOVERTIME. work Schedule.
Contract Workers.
Sawmill Workers and Planers.
All Trades.....................................
Boiler Room...................................
Sault Ste Marie...............................
Gravel Truck. Heavy Equipment, Mechanical
Cutting........................................
Logging Truck and Loading Equipment. sanders
and Graders...................................
Special schedules.............................
Millwrights and Welders.......................
Overtime.......................................
29
30
30
30
30
31
31
ARTICLE	19
ARTICLE	20
ARTICLE	21
ARTICLE	22
ARTICLE	23
ARTICLE	24
ARTICLE	25
ARTICLE	26
ARTICLE	27
ARTICLE	26
ARTICLE	29
ARTICLE	30
REPORTING PAY.................................... 33
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE............................ 34
GROUP INSURANCE-PENSION PLAN..................... 35
Pension Plan..................................... 36
PREMIUM PAY AND COMPENSATION WHILE ON TRAINING. . . 37
Shift Premium.................................... 37
Lead Hand Premium...........................      37
Training Program................................. 37
MATERIAL SUPPLY.................................. 37
Coveralls.........................................37
Portable Camps................................... 37
HEALS...........................................  36
TRADE CLASSIFICATION SIAXS....................... 38
WORN LIMITATIONS................................. 39
BENEFITS OP 70RE3TRY WQRFER8 AND
TRADESMEN........................................3
TRAVELLING TIMS.................................. 4 >
OFFICIAL LANGUAGE................................ 4 1
TERM OF THE AGREEMENT............................4
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT............................................42
SCHEDULE 'A*................................................... 42
SCHEDULE 'B'.................................................   44
ARTICLE 1
The purpose of this agreement is to provide for the Company and the Union all the benefits of legal and regulated collective bargaining in reference to hours, salaries, working and living conditions as specified in the articles of this agreement and to insure as much as possible the safety and well-being of employees, good working management, quality and quantity of production and protection of the property. Furthermore, this agreement aims at settling peacefully and equitably all disagreements which could arise between the parties. It is understood that the duty of the parties present, as well as that of all employees, is to cooperate fully, individually and collectively in order to achieve the conditions stipulated in this agreement.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION OP TEE UNION
2:01	WITH RESPECT TO WORKERS • The Company recognizes the
union as the Sole Collective Bargaining Agency of all employees of Dubreuil Forest Products Limited. This agreement is aimed at all the employees of Dubreuil Forest Products Limited working in the sawmill, planing mill, yard, boiler room, woodworking, maintenance, cutting operations, lumber transport, chipping plant, and stockroom personnel.
2:02	(1} It is agreed that if the Company engages
contractors to perform work usually performed by employees within the Bargaining Unit as described in Article 2:01, the following shall apply:
(a)	a work permit will be paid to the Union by the Company for every month or part thereof that a contractor is engaged by the Company;
(b)	the engagement of a contractor shall not have the corresponding effect of causing a reduction of employees or of the regular operations of the department affected subject to the usual seasonal changes in the operations of the Company;
(c)	where both contractors and Union members perform the same work, subject to Article 2:00, Union members will be laid off in accordance with Article 12:06 or such other Article as may be specifically applicable, only if the contractors performing the same work have ceased to perform the same.
2! 03	The Company may continue to engage contractors to
exclusively perform the following work:
(a)	hauling lumber, chips, and poplar, including veneer bolts:
(b)	hauling veneer bolts from woods to their
destination:
(c)	cutting poplar veneer or birch;
(d)	providing services to the town site;
(e)	erecting structures;
(f)	work on or originating from work sites outside the Company limits and/or within the townships of Sernot, Carmody, Chenard, Dumas and Oumphy;
(g)	within these five townships, only the softwood will be cut in the Hardwood Cutting Groups by union employees unless these employees have always been willing to cut poplar.
2:04	Subject to Article 2:03:
(1)	When poplar is cut for the construction of primary and secondary roads, the Company will pay fifteen percent (15% less than soft delimbed wood for the delimbed poplar (without separating bonus) .
(2)	For the remaining poplar, the Company will offer the possibility of cutting the same as its employees according to seniority at a rate thirty-two percent (32%) less than that for soft delimbed wood.
2:05	MECHANICAL CUTTING
(]_) Notwithstanding Article 2:02 and subj ect to Article 2:03, if the company requires new or additional mechanized cutting equipment (grapple skidders, delimbers or feller bunchers) it shall advise the Union thereof.
(2)	Employees in departments #i and M (as set out in
Article 11:01	(c)) who do not own equipment as
described above will be given one month to decide if they wish to purchase such equipment and become owner-operators thereof.
(3)	Upon purchase of such equipment, the employee will,
if not already, become a member of department #4 as set out in Article 11:01	(c) . His departmental
seniority will not be transferred if he is not presently in that department.
(4)	Subject to Article 2:03, the Company excepting
2
short-term and/or season requirements, will not engage new or additional contractors to perform
mechanical cutting until all of the employees described in Article 2:05	(2) have exercised their
option to purchase as described in the Article or to refuse to purchase the type of equipment which a contractor would otherwise employ.
(5)	Where the Company intends to engage a contractor to perform short-term or seasonal work as described in Article 2:05 (<5), it will advise the Union thereof. The Union will advise the Company within one (l) week if it wishes the Company to invoke the remaining provisions of Article 2:05,
(6)	Further, when it is necessary to increase the amount of equipment in wood operations, for a short period of time the company will advise the Union thereof.
The Company will ask each employee on the list if they are interested in purchasing or renting a piece of equipment for this short period of time.
Should employees refuse, the company with the agreement of the Union can engage an owner/operator who will become permanent at the end of his probationary period. This in accordance with Article 11:03 of this agreement.
2:06	TRANSPORTATION OF ROUNDWOOD AND GRAVEL
(1) Subject to Article 2:02, 2:03, and 2:07, the Company may engage hauling contractors.
(2)	In order to give preference to Company owner-operators engaged in the wood haul who may otherwise be laid-off during the summer while contractors perform the gravel haul, such wood haul owner-operators will be given an opportunity by the company to perform the gravel haul, if their vehicle is capable of the same, during the time that they would be laid off the wood haul.
(3)	In the event that a Company owner-operator takes
advantage of the opportunity afforded by Article 2:06	(2), the owner-operator shall be paid the same
amount and in the same manner as a contractor performing the gravel haul. During this period, non-monetary benefits will continue to be paid to the said owner-operator.
3
2:07
(4)	(a) Should the Company require new or additional
hauling contractors, it will advise the owner-operators and employees engaged in the transportation of roundwood and gravel of that fact.
(b)	Such owner-operators and employees will be given a one time opportunity to become a contractor and to perform the work for which contractors are at the time sought (by the same process as provided in the Letter of Agreement.
(c)	An owner-operator or employee who chooses to become a contractor will, like all contractors, be excluded from the bargaining unit and will lose all bargaining unit privileges and benefits effective the date on which the work in question commences.
(d)	The provisions of Article 2:06 (4) do not, and are not meant to represent any guarantee of any type, including future work with the Company, for the new contractor involved.
(e)	In the future, the 'stockpile' will be done by owner/operators first. The Company has the right to engage other trucks if it deems the same to be necessary in the circumstances after obtaining the approval of the union.
(1)	It is understood that employees or owner-operators cannot 'bump' an employee of a contractor. This does not affect the operation of Article 2:02.
(2)	Notwithstanding anything else in this Collective
Agreement, the parties agree that the present employee and owner-operator complement represented by the seniority list for departments #1, 02 and 04 described in Article 11:01	(c) will not be
expanded, added to or increased following ratification of this Collective Agreement, except at the sole discretion of the Company.
(3)	If the Company should decide to make or allow any additions to the employee or owner-operator complement in the above described departments after ratification, these individuals will not be permitted to avail themselves of the options and benefits of Article 2:05 ok Article 2:06.
(4)	The Company will make its best efforts to place any
4
employee or owner-operator affected by a temporary
or permanent lay-off within the organization.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
3:01	Any employee for who the Union has negotiating rights must be a union member to maintain his employment. Any new employee or any other employee who lost his union status must become a union member when hired (as defined in Article 11:02).
3:02	The Company shall deduct from the pay of each union employee the dues as set forth by the by-laws of the Union and shall remit such sum once a month to the Union Secretary. The company shall provide, every three (3) months, a list showing names and totals deducted on behalf of each member. Such deductions shall not be made when there are insufficient funds due to the employee in question.
3:03	A membership form for the Union (supplied by the Union ) shall be signed at time of enrolment of each new employee. This will constitute his initiation as a member of the Union at the cost established by the Union, said cost to be deducted from the pay of the employee, equally over two pay periods. A copy of the said signed form shall be mailed on the same day to the Union.
3:04	Any employee who is a member in good standing of the Union must keep his status in good standing until termination of this agreement. When it is the intention of the Union to suspend a member, the Company will be notified in writing seven (7) days before the suspension takes effect.
ARTICLE 4	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4:01	The Union recognizes and acknowledges that the management of the operations and direction of the working force are fixed exclusively in the company and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to: (a)	maintain order and efficiency; (b)	hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer, suspend, rehire and retire employees, and to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause provided that a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided.
5
4:02
ARTICLE
5 ! 01
5 : 02 5 ! 03
(c) make, enforce and alter, from time to time, rules and regulations, to be observed by the employees but before altering any such rules the Company will discuss same with the Union and give them an opportunity of making representation with regard to such proposed alterations.
determine the nature and kind of business conducted by the Company, the type and locations of operations, equipment and materials to be used, the control of materials and parts, the methods and techniques of work, the content of jobs, the schedules of production, the number of employees to be employed, the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations or any part thereof and to determine and exercise all other functions and prerogatives which shall remain solely with the company except as specifically limited by the expressed provisions of this agreement.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions, it is expressly understood that a breach to any of the Company rules as well as the general disciplinary rule or of any of the provisions of this agreement shall be conclusively deemed to be sufficient cause for discipline or dismissal of an employee, provided that nothing herein shall prevent an employee from going through the grievance procedure to determine whether or not such breach actually took place.
5 - UNION COMMITTEE
The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Union Committee which shall be composed of five (5) representatives from amongst the members with no more than two (2) employees from the same department. Representatives shall be regular employees of the company during their time of office. The name and department of each representative from time to time selected shall be given to the Company in writing. All representatives must wear an identifying marker on their safety hats to identify them as Union representatives.
The Company undertakes to instruct all members of its supervisory staff to cooperate with the representatives and members of the Union in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this agreement.
The Union undertakes to secure from its officers, representatives and members, their cooperation with the Company and with all persons representing the Company in a supervisory capacity.
6
S ; 04	A grievance Committee shall he formed and made up of the Union Executive (President,Vice-president and Secretary-Treasurer) as well as the representative from which the grievance originated. The remaining two representatives may attend the grievance discussions so long as there is no cost involved for the Company and that it does not affect the smooth running of the operations.
5:05	The privilege of representatives to leave their work without loss of basic pay to attend Union business is granted on the following conditions: (a)	such business must be between the Union and the Management; (b)	Employees having grievances cannot discuss these with their representatives during working hours, except in the case of a discharged employee. The representative concerned shall then obtain the permission of his foreman before leaving his work. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. (c)	Any representative shall receive a pass from the Company to visit all departments as long as it is done outside hours and that it is not detrimental to operations. The Grievance Committee can make inquiries during working hours, but with the same restrictions. (d)	The Company will allow more time-off without pay for union representatives so they may keep informed as to developments which could help them in their union work.
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6:01	The parties to this agreement agree it is of utmost importance that grievances be resolved as quickly as possible.
6102	No grievance shall be considered where the circumstances giving rise to it occurred and originated more than eight (8) working days before the filing of the grievance, except in the case of recall after lay-off where an employee is not immediately aware of the circumstances, he will be allowed to present his grievance within the eight (8) full working days from the day he first learned or reasonably ought to have learned of the circumstances giving rise to his grievance.
6:03	The Company recognizes the right of every employee to file grievances according to the established procedure.
7
In order to facilitate the exercise of the said right, the Company must ensure that no employee is unduly interfered with in the filing of a grievance.
6i 0 4	The time limits provided for in this Article are
mandatory.	Non-compliance with the time limits will
cause the grievance to expire and the grievance will be conclusively deemed to be finally abandoned. The parties may agree in writing to extend such time limits.
6i 05	As long as a grievance shall be under consideration in
compliance with the mentioned procedure or if any change brought about by the Company is the cause of the dispute, any new working conditions shall remain in effect until a final decision pursuant to this agreement has been reached.
Si 06	Grievances of an employee or a group of employees
concerning	the application, interpretation	or
administration of this Collective Agreement must be dealt with in the following manner:
Step 1 -
In order for a grievance to be valid, the plaintiff must have first discussed the matter with his immediate supervisor. If an agreement is not reached, the plaintiff must proceed to Step 2,
Step 2 -
The aggrieved employee shall present his grievance in writing to his foreman. He shall have the assistance of his department representative if he so desires. The foreman shall give his decision within four (4) working days following the presentation of the grievance to him. If the foreman's decision is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, then the grievance may be presented as follows:
Step 3 •
Within four (4) working days after the decision is given at Step 2, the aggrieved employee may, with or without his departmental representative, present the grievance in writing to the superintendent or manager of the department who shall consider it in the presence of the person or persons presenting the same and the foreman, and render his decision in writing within four (4) working days following the presentation of the grievance to him. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached, then the grievance may be presented as follows:
8
Step 4	-
Within five (5) working days after the decision is given under Step 3, the aggrieved employee, or upon his reguest, a representative of the Union, may submit his grievance to the grievance committee in writing and the said Committee shall, as promptly as possible, call a meeting between the grievance committee of the Union and such persons as Management may desire to consider the grievance and to obtain a solution satisfactory to all parties concerned. The said Committee shall render its decision in writing within five (5) working days following such meeting. If final settlement of the grievance is not reached in Step 4, then the grievance may be referred in writing by either party to arbitration as provided for in Article 7 below, at any time within ten (10) calendar days after the decision is given under Step 4 and if no such written reguest for arbitration is received within the time limit, the grievance shall be deemed to have been abandoned.
6:07	By reversing roles, the Company may present a grievance
to the Union. It shall be treated at Step 4 .
5i08	A grievance under the provisions of this agreement is
defined as balng any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this agreement involving the interpretation, application or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this agreement.
6 s 09	(a) The Union may file a written grievance that the
employer is in violation of the Collective Agreement with respect to a matter affecting the Union itself (but not including a matter on which the employee could file an individual grievance) (being specific as to the alleged violation and as to the relief sought) and may require a meeting with the Manager (at which a Union representative may be present) within five (5) days from the date of filing the grievance. It is expressly agreed that the Union is precluded from filing a grievance which an individual employee could himself file pursuant to 6:06. Such grievance must be filed within eight (8) days from the cause of the grievance occurs.
(b) If the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the Union during the meeting with the Manager, the Employer will, within five (5) working days after the meeting, give a written reply to the grievance to the steward.
9
(c) If the written reply has not settled the grievance to the satisfaction of the Union, the Union may, within ten (10) working days after the receipt of the reply, refer the grievance to arbitration.
(dj A discussion and decision made on each grievance shall be limited to the matters specified in the grievance as filed or as amended pursuant to the provisions of this Article. However, the Union may submit additional factual information to support the grievance at later steps provided the subject matter of the grievance remains unchanged.
6:10	(a) The Company may request a more specific statement
of the grievance, or subsequent replies, if Company feels the statement thereof or reply does not clearly and sufficiently state the problems or the reasons for the grievance.
(b)	The nature of the grievance, the remedies sought and the section or sections of this Collective Agreement which are alleged have been violated must be set out in the written record of grievance and are not subject to change in later steps or in any Arbitration unless agreed to in writing by both parties.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
7:01
7 ! 02
7:03 7:04
7:05
Any grievance carried through the grievance procedure outlined above and which has not been settled will be referred to a single arbitrator on the written request of either of the interested parties.
Should the Company and the Union fail to agree on a single arbitrator within fourteen (14) days of the notification referred to in Step 4 above, then the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario will be asked to nominate the single arbitrator.
The decision of the single arbitrator shall be binding on both parties.
The single arbitrator shall not have power to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this agreement.
Each of the parties to this agreement will bear half the expenses of the single arbitrator.
10
7 ! o 6	in all cases of grievances, the personnel record of the
employee affected shall be presented to the President of the Union upon the written authorization of the employee concerned.
ARTICLE 8 - DISCIPLINARY MEASURES
Si 01	(1) Where the Company disciplines an employee by means
of a written warning, suspension, or discharge, it shall confirm the same by means of a notice of discipline which will be delivered or given to the employee affected within five (5) calendar days of the date on which the infraction comes to the Company's attention.
(2)	Suspensions, if imoosed, shall be based on consecutive days 'immediately following the imposition thereof.
(3)	Any warning shall be kept in an employee's file for a period of one year and shall then be destroyed provided that this offense is not repeated in the following 12 months.
8:02	A claim by a regular employee (having completed the
probationary period) to the effect that he has been discharged without just cause, shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the manager of the department within three (3) working days after the employee ceases working for the Company.
An employee who is incapable of attending work must inform the Company of that fact and the reason for the absence at least one half hour before the start of his shift or, if that is impossible, so soon thereafter as he is able.
An employee in breach of Article 8:03	(1) will
incur disciplinary sanction.
The Company is entitled to reguire the employee to substantiate the reason given for this, or any other absence allowed by the Collective Agreement, with such proof as the Company deems necessary.
ARTICLE 9 - COHTIHUITY OP WORK
9:01	In view of the orderly procedure established by this
agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling of grievances, the Union agrees that, during the life of this agreement, it shall not cause, call or support any
11
8:03	(1)
(2)
(3)
strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lock-out as defined in the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
9! 02	The Company shall have the right to discharge or
otherwise discipline employees who take part in or originate any strike as defined in the Ontario Labour Relations Act, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, but a claim of unjust discharge or treatment may be the subject of a grievance and should be dealt with as provided in Article 6 above.
9! 03	Should the Union claim that a cessation of work
constitutes a lock-out, it may take the matter up with the Employer in Article 6:09 of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 10 - HEALTH AND SAJETf AT WORK
10:01	Employer and employees cooperate fully to the
program of Industrial Safety set forward by the employer, the Ministry of Labour and the safety Association. It is hereby agreed it shall be the duty of the employee to make use of all protective devices and equipment required. To further these aims, the Company will schedule monthly meetings of the Security Committee to exchange ideas on improvements to be made.
10:02	Each employee must supply and use (pursuant to
established standards and Company rules) the following safety equipment:	safety boots, hard
hat, safety gloves, knee pads, hair net, ear muffs. Each employee with one (1) year seniority on April 1st of each year shall be entitled to a voucher valued at $30.00 upon presentation of his receipt from the purchase of safety boots, except for employees whose name are preceded with an asterisk and who will be entitled to two vouchers per year.
Each tradesman in the following departments, millwrights, welders, oilers, mechanics and electricians with one (1) year seniority on April 1st of each year shall be entitled to one voucher per year valued at $35.00 by presenting his sales slip from the purchase of safety boots.
Safety gloves or mitts will be supplied to those employees requiring them and upon written authorization of their foreman.
The Company will furnish ear muffs upon the hiring 12
of each employee requiring them and upon written authorization 'of their foreman.
The Company will supply insulated coveralls to electricians, filers, millwrights, oilers, welders and bush mechanics who are required to work Outside during the winter months.
The company agrees to replace free of charge, pitted prescription safety glasses for millwrights and welders. Limited to one pair per employee per calendar year.
10:03	The company shall supply all other special
equipment it requires an employee to use. IL an employee negligently damages or fails to return such equipment upon leaving his employment with the Company, he shall be assessed for the damages to the equipment. The Company intends to keep better control over its equipment.
10:04	Raincoats and rubber boots will be loaned to
employees working with tar. Raincoats and aprons will also be loaned to hourly employees whose work requires it. The employee is accountable for this equipment at all times (does not apply to piece workers).
Each temporary employee shall submit himself to a medical examination after three (3) weeks of regular work, at a time and place stipulated by the Company. The cost of such examination shall be borne by the Company, but the employee shall pay the cost of transportation to and from the place of examination.	Any employee who is found
physically unfit for work shall cease to be an employee.
The company can request a medical examination before an employee returns to work when the said employee has been off on disability.
The Company can request a medical examination for an employee who was laid off. If the employee is found unfit to resume his usual work, Article 12:08 can come into effect, except in the case of an accident sustained in the employ of someone else while laid off.
The Company will reimburse truck or bus drivers for the time lost if necessary, when
13
10:05	(a)
Co)
(c)
(d)
summoned by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications to review their licence where such renewal is required in order to continue their job as a truck or bus driver, up to a maximum of two hours.
10:06	Buses used for employee transportation shall be
equipped	with	radio	transmitters	as well	as
stretchers.
10:07	All heavy equipment shall have first-aid kits,
except for yard loaders. There must also be kits in pieceworkers' camps.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11:01	(a) The Company recognizes the principle of seniority.
seniority will be the decisive element dealing with promotions, transfers, lay-offs, as long as the employee	has the knowledge,	skill	and
qualifications required for the job, or to be trained. The employee must be immediately available to execute the said work to be eligible for a promotion, transfer, layoff or recall. Employees off work due to sickness or injury must be capable of executing the said work within thirty working days after the position has been awarded.
(b)	There shall be two (2) types of seniority, namely company seniority and departmental seniority. Company seniority shall apply to all employees of the Company, and departmental seniority shall apply to employees within their respective departments.
(c)	Departmental seniority consists of the following categories:
1)	conventional cutting
2)	Hauling-all trucks
3)	Loader-Tractor-Grader-Excavator
4)	Mechanical cutting
5)	Sawmills; all production including loaders
6)	Planers; all production including loaders
7)	Boiler Room
8)	Electrical
9)	carpenter and painter
10)	Plumbing
11)	Filer
12)	Welders - sawmill
13)	Millwrights
14)	Mechanics, flat drivers and helpers
15)	Welders - Garage
14
16)	Stockroom
17)	Shipping in Sault Ste Marie
13) Machinist
19) Chipping Plant (Poplar)
Employees in the above-listed departments of the Company's operations shall accumulate and hold departmental seniority in one department at a time.
(d)	Company seniority means length of continuous employment within the Company since the last date of employment except as expressly provided herein.
(e)	Departmental seniority means length of continuous employment since the last date of employment within a department.
11:02	seniority lists will be revised every six (6) months (the
Company system of badge numbers shall be used for employee identification and payroll purposes only). A copy of the seniority list will be posted on the bulletin boards throughout the operations and a copy will be given to the Union. Seniority lists shall contain the following information:
i)	Hiring date
Li)	Badge number
ILL)	Employee's name
Lv)	Departmental seniority
v)	Company seniority
11:03
If an employee does not challenge the position of his name on the seniority list within two months from the date his name appears on the said list, he shall be deemed to have proper seniority standing.
(1)	An employee shall be hired on a permanent basis once he has completed thirty (30) days of work within a period of sixty (60) working days. His seniority will begin at the start of his qualification period. Prior to permanent hiring, the employee is considered on probation and has no seniority rights. The dismissal, lay-off or failure to recall after lay-off of a probationary employee shall not be the subject of a grievance.
(2)	An employee who does not provide the Company with
the results of his completed employment medical examination within the probationary period as set out in Article 11:03	(1) and (2), may be discharged
or laid off or not recalled after lay-off by the Company until ten (10) days following the receipt
of the results of his employment medical examination. The dismissal, lay-off or failure to recall of such an employee prior to the expiration of the ten (10) day period shall not be the subject of a grievance unless the dismissal, lay-off or failure to recall is unrelated to the employee's medical report.
11:04	Seniority shall accumulate in the following circumstances
only:
(a)	When actually at work for the Company
(k) When absent on vacation or on plant holidays
(c)	When off the payroll due to lay-off, sickness or accident, an employee's seniority will continue to accumulate for a period of time equal to twelve
(12) months if circumstances are unrelated to work and for a period of time equal to twenty-four (24) months if causes are work-related. However, the period of time cannot be lengthier than the employee's seniority with the Company.
(d)	When off the payroll due to personal leave of absence, employee seniority will continue to accumulate for one (1) month and subject to Article LL;05, shall be frozen thereafter.
11:05	Seniority shall terminate and an employee shall cease to
be employed by the Company when he:
(a)	voluntarily quits his employment with the Company.
(b)	is discharged and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration.
(c)	is off the payroll for a period of twenty-four (24) months following an illness or accident outside of work. It is agreed and understood that an employee's seniority shall be cancelled if conclusive proof shows he could have performed his regular work while absent for medical reasons; or if he is in possession of a medical certificate stating he will not be returning to work.
(d)	fails to report to work within three (3) working days after notice from the Company following a layOff.
(e)	fails to return to work upon the termination of an authorized leave of absence, or medical leave
16
11106
unless an acceptable reason has been given to the
(f)	accepts gainful employment while on a leave of absence without first obtaining the consent of the Company.
(1)	In the event that an employee covered by this agreement should be promoted or transferred to a supervisory position outside the bargaining unit:
(a)	he shall continue to accumulate departmental seniority for a period of six (6) months.
(b)	following the expiration of six (6) months, his departmental seniority shall be frozen.
(2)	An employee promoted or transferred in accordance
with 11:06	(1) may at his or the Company's option
return or be returned to his former position within six (6) months of leaving the same.
(3)	Following the six (6) month period referred to in Article 11:06 (2}, the employee in question may use his departmental seniority for the purposes of an original job posting if his supervisory position with the Company is terminated.
(4)	Notwithstanding the above, an employee who is transferred or accepts a position with the Company above the rank of foreman is not eligible to return to the bargaining unit pursuant to the provisions of Article 11:06.
11:0?	In the event that an employee covered by this agreement
should be promoted to a supervisory or confidential position beyond the scope of this agreement, he shall have a period of six (6) months to decide if he will keep the new position or return to his old one. After that interval, this privilege is withdrawn.
ARTICLE 12 - STATE CHANGES
12:01	JOB OPENINGS AND POSTINGS
(a)	In the event of a job opening or the creation of a new post, the employer shall post the opening in the designated places, for a period of seven (7) consecutive days along with the following information (not applicable to contract work): 1
(1)	Title or classification of opening
17
(2)	summary description ot tin1 duty to assume
(3)	Demands and qualifications to till the post
(4)	Location
(5)	Salary
(b)	Employees must personally apply in Writing during the posting period in the designated areas for notices and postings which are:
i) sawmill coffee room; it) large planer coffee room; ill) small planer coffee room; lv) chip plant coffee room;
v)	garage;
vi)	gas station (town);
vii)	copy to the Union.
(c)	The name of the chosen employee shall be posted in all departments within ten working days.
(d)	The Company shall advise the Union in writing of its choice of candidate and also of the names of other employees who applied. This notice must take place within five (5) working days after the vacancy if filled.
(e)	The fourth position brought about by the same posting shall be filled at will by the company.
(f)	Nothing herein shall prevent the Company from hiring persons from outside the bargaining unit when no qualified employee applies.
12:02	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The employee selected to fill a vacancy as per Article 12:01 (c) shall be subject to a probationary period of five (5) consecutive working days in his new position. The probationary period may be extended by five days if the employer advises the Union Committee in writing. The probationary period may then be extended by a further five (5) days, again at the Company's discretion. However, this last extension will not be made without consultation with the union. During the probationary period, the employer may return the employee to his previous position. After this interval, the employee shall be considered permanent in this position.
12:03	LIMITATION OF APPLICATION RIGHT
An employee granted a new position following a job posting, cannot bid for another vacancy before completing
ie
SIX (6) consecutive months in the new position obtained
unless this is a posting of Tho Training Program as pet
Article 13,
12 ; 0 4	PROMOTION REFUSAL
If within a year an employee rejects two (2) positions after practical attempts, the department manager will inform the Union of the fact. The latter will meet with the employee concerned and inform him that another refusal (after trials) will result in his being eXcluded from the posting for a period of one year.
The same procedure will be used towards a person who applies four (4) times but refuses practical attempts.
12;05	TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT
(a)	At the time of an authorized temporary leave or following a disability eXtending over a period of twenty (20) days, the position will be posted for a period of three (3) days as a temporary position. The employee whose position becomes temporarily vacant has a right, upon his return, to resume his work as long as he is capable of doing the required work. For a temporary leave of less than twenty (20) days, the position may be filled by temporary appointment and at equal competence, priority shall be given to the employee of equal skill having the most seniority.
(b)	The employee transferred temporarily to a position with a higher rate of pay than his own, shall receive immediately the higher salary for the duration of his transfer.
(c)	The employee, transferred at the request of the Company, to a position with a lower rate of pay than his own shall keep his regular rate of pay during that period.
(d)	The employee transferred at his own request, shall be immediately remunerated at the rate of pay of his new occupation.
12! 05	LAY-OFF
(a)	In all cases of temporary lay-off exceeding five
(5)	working days but less than three (3) months, and in cases of call back after lay-off, the Company will proceed as follows:
19
1)	Departmental seniority.
2)	skill, ability, competence and efficiency.
(b)	In the case of lay-off of three (3) months, the employee affected may displace, within the following five (5) days, the employee with the least Company seniority; providing that he has the necessary qualifications and that he meets the requirements for the said position. As soon as the displacement is effective, the employee will be remunerated at the hourly rate of his new position. His departmental seniority will be transferred to his new department for the purpose of future employment. This privilege is solely for the purpose of the employee to use his previous seniority for a maximum of six (6) months.
(c)	In case of lay-off involving five (5) or more employees, the company will inform the Union and those employees involved in writing, at least a week in advance, except in cases out of the Company's control.
(d)	At the time of temporary lay-off, an employee may accept a transfer in an available occupation at a different rate from his regular occupation.
(e)	In case of a lay-off or call back, the members of the executive shall have preference of jobs over all other employees provided they have the normal demands required to accomplish the job available.
For purposes of this article, executive shall mean:
President, Vice-president, Secretary-Treasurer, Stewards (5)
(C) In the event of lay off in a specific working place caused by a technical, technological or mechanical change, the Company shall advise the Union at least one (1) month before the incident. The employee affected shall then:
(1)	Bump the employee with the least seniority in his department, should there be one, and have a trial period (Article L 2 : 02) or the training program as described in Article 13, if applicable.
(2)	The employee thus affected of the employee bumped may then bump the employee with the least Company seniority under the same
20
conditions aforementioned. The employee to his new department.
If the employee affected or bumped cannot bump the employee with the least Company seniority, because he is unable to do that type of work, he may then bump the next employee with least seniority and so on, as long as the employees bumped have less than a year seniority.
(3)	This or these employees accepting a new position following technical, technological or mechanical changes shall not suffer a reduction in salary for a period of three (3) months or until they successfully bid on a job posting, whichever is less.
(4)	The employee may return to his previous department without loss of seniority if he successfully bids on a job posting within a period of six (6) months.
(5)	Starting the first of September 1938, an employee with three (3) years or more of seniority, for whom no work can be found, shall be entitled to receive, at the termination of his employment, a severance pay equal to a week's wages for each year worked during his last continuous work period.
This pay shall be calculated according to his regular working time and shall not exceed thirty (30) weeks.
It is understood that an employee choosing to receive his severance pay will be leaving his position forfeiting his call back right.
(g)	TRANSPORTATION OF ROUNDWOOD
In the event of a lay-off exceeding seven (7) days,
the following shall apply to the wood haul:
(a)	those engaged in the hauling of sixteen (16) foot Logs may bump, on the basis of seniority, others engaged in the Same haul. Any employees so bumped may then bump, on the basis of seniority, others in the department;
(b)	if the Lay-off exceeds seven (7) working days and is as a result of equipment failure or
21
12 :07
12:08
12:09
ARTICLE
13 : 01
breakdown, the individual affected may bump the most junior individual in the department after the seventh (7th) working day.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS
It shall be the duty of each employee to notify the Company promptly of any change in address. If an employee fails to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of notice to reach such employee.
(1)	If an employee is injured or as a result of illness can no longer perform his job within the foreseeable future, he will be permitted to use his departmental seniority for the purposes of an original job posting in another department.
(2)	If successful in such an original job posting his departmental seniority will be transferred to his new department.
(3)	Article 12:08 cannot be invoked by an employee whose medical status has not been confirmed by such medical specialist (s) (chiropractor, not included) mutually agreed upon by the Union and the company.
(4)	The Company shall, upon receiving written authorization from the employee, forward a copy of any medical reports received by it to the Union.
NEW POSITION
In the case of the acquisition of mechanical equipment of which operation or function is new to the company, or is on a trial basis, it is understood that the Company can appoint for this equipment, hourly rated employees on a trial basis and those said hourly rated employees, without losing their seniority, shall be able to return to their original classification as long as the system does not operate, in total, in excess of three (3) months.
13 - JOB TRAINING PROGRAM
(1)	(a) The Company may establish a job training
program and, when doing so, will advise the Union thereof.
(k) Job training programs shall be posted and the successful candidate shall be chosen by taking into account the following criteria:
22
ARTICLE 14 14:01
(a)	Departmental seniority.
(b)	Preliminary medical examination results.
(c)	Discipline file
(d)	Qualifications, requirements and basic skills required and determined by the employer, after consultation with the Negotiating Committee.
(e)	Experience acquired on a specific production line. This criterion will be a determining factor when the first four
(4)	are equal.
(3)	An employee who has completed a job training program shall be deemed to apply for the next position posted for which he has been trained.
(4)	(a) Once a position is the subject of a job
training program, the next posting for that position shall be filled on the basis of skill, qualification, ability and availability. only if these criteria are equal will seniority govern.
(b)	All postings following the one described above will be filled in accordance with Article 12.
(5)	An employee who has completed a job training program shall be deemed to be qualified for the position involved.
(6)	A copy of the job training program description will be given to the union.
(7)	When a post is temporarily vacant, an employee who has been trained for that position must fill this post when requested by his foreman.
- ABSENCES
In the case of an employee who is called for jury service or subpoenaed as a witness for the Crown, the Company shall pay €or each day of such service an allowance equal to the difference between his regular straight time salary and the amount received for the jury duty. The employee shall present proof of service and of pay received when making his claim for said allowance. The employee shall report to work as soon as he is relieved from his jury duty,
23
14:02	The Company may grant a leave of absence if an employee
requests such leave provided it is for a good reason and it does not interfere with the operations of the Company. Such leave shall be without pay may be signed by the foreman, superintendent or manager.
14:03	Maternity leaves shall be dealt with according to the
rules and regulations of the 'Employment Standards Act'. These leaves shall be considered as absences without pay and the employees concerned shall exercise their rights under the Unemployment Insurance Act.
14:04	ABSENCES FOR FUNERALS
(1)	(a) In the event of the death of a spouse or child
of an employee, the latter shall be entitled to a leave of absence with pay for a period of one (L) week.
(b)	In the event of the death of:	father, mother,
grandfather, grandmother, brother, sister, parents-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law and daughter-in-law, the employee shall be entitled to a leave of absence of three (3) working days between the death and the funeral day inclusively.
(c)	If justified by the distance, the employee may be granted or two additional days leave without pay for the necessary travel.
(2) Employees shall receive their regular daily remuneration,	(excluding all bonuses and allowances) for those days on which they would otherwise have been scheduled to work. Employees requesting payment in accordance with this Article shall provide the Company with proof of attendance at the funeral.
The company will accept proof of attendance issued by the parish in which the service was held.
ARTICLE 15 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
15:01	The salary schedule A and B attached hereto made a part
of this agreement.
Since the basic principle is to follow the salaries paid in the following three companies (United Sawmill, Malette, Lecours Lumber) and since the aforementioned operate from September 1 of each year to August 31 of the following year, we shall use the same base of salaries.
24
155 02
15:03
15:04
15:05
15:06
The negotiated salaries for schedule A and B shall be for the period starting September 1, 1992 and ending August 31, 1995.
Increases or cuts in wages for hourly-rated employees, effective September 1, 1995 will be determined by a percentage egual to the average percentage increase or cut (based on hourly wages in effect immediately prior to the increase or cuts) negotiated by the following employers: United sawmill, Malette Lumber and Lecours Lumber. This hourly percentage increase or cut will apply to the wages in effect on August 3 1, 1995, for each of the classifications described in Schedule 8-
If a wage cut is put in effect in the other companies, before cutting employees' salaries, the Company will meet with the Union to discuss the situation and steps will be taken jointly.
The Company reserves the right to implement a bonus system on production at any time after discussion with the elected executives of the Union.
The logs will be measured each pay period and a copy of the scale measure will be provided within the next two (2) days, if possible, for the piece workers.
The pay slip shall be given or mailed to each employee at the end of each pay period. If changes occur, they will be explained by the Company.
NEW CLASSIFICATION
When there is significant change in job content, the Company and the Union will mutually agree to the reclassification of jobs and the proper adjustment to wages in regard thereto within twenty (20) working day period. Any such new rates will be based on a comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the wage schedule, and shall be effective twenty (20) working days from the date of significant change in job content.
The Company will reimburse tradesmen for the time lost if necessary, for the renewal of the A. D. L. certif icates, up to a maximum of two hours,
Guards may do other work, such as cleaning, as long as it's not taking away the work of union employees.
25
ARTICLE 16 • HOLIDAY8
Holidays will be taken during summer months between the termination of the school year and the end of the month of August. The Company will make every effort €or these holidays to coincide with the Quebec construction holidays (last two full weeks of July).
16:01
(a)	Employees who have acquired three (3) years seniority or less shall receive 41 of their earnings €or the time worked and will be entitled to one day of vacation for each month worked to a maximum of two (2) weeks per year.
(b)	Employees who have acquired more than three (3)
years	shall receive	three	(3) weeks	vacation	and
shall	receive 5% of	such	employee's	earnings	for
the time worked since last payment of vacation pay.
(c)	Employees who have acquired more than six (6) years shall receive three (3) weeks vacation and shall receive 6* of such employee's earnings for the time worked since last payment of vacation pay.
(d)	Employees who have acquired more than eight (8)
years	shall receive	four	(4) weeks	vacation	and
shall	receive 7% of	such	employee's	earnings	for
the time worked since last payment of vacation pay.
(e)	Employees who have acquired more than ten (10)
years	shall receive	four	(4) weeks	vacation	and
shall	receive 8% of	such	employee's	earnings	for
the time worked since last payment of vacation pay.
(f)	Employees who have acquired more than fifteen (15) years seniority shall receive five (5) weeks vacation and shall receive 10% of their earnings for the time worked since last payment of vacation pay.
(<f) Employees who have acquired more than twenty (20) years seniority shall receive six (6) weeks vacation shall receive 12% of their earnings for the time worked since last payment of vacation pay.
(h)	Employees who have twenty-two (22) years of seniority or more for the Company shall receive the following additional vacation with pay in the calendar year in which they attain:
Age 60 • 1 week...........(2% of gross earnings)
Age 61-2 weeks............. (4s? of gross earnings)
26
Age 62	-	3	weeks..........(61	of	gross	earnings)
Age 63	—	4	weeks..........(6%	of	gross	earnings)
Age 64	-	5	weeks.........(Lot	of	gross	earnings)
For the purpose of the above supplementary vacation, the duration and timing will be determined by mutual agreement between the employees and the employer.
ARTICLE 17 - PAID HOLIDAYS
17:01
The following paid holidays, regardless of when they fall, will be granted with pay to all employees who have completed their probationary period.
New Year's Day Day after New Year's Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Dominion Day
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Payment for such holidays shall be based on the employee's regular hourly rate multiplied by the number of regular hours he would normally have worked on such a day. When any of the said holidays fall on other than a regular working day, then the Company may either designate some other days as the day upon which the said holiday will be celebrated, or pay the employees who qualify for payment €or the said holiday as though it had fallen on a regular working day, whichever the Company prefers.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, it is agreed and understood that, effective from the ratification date, all piece workers will receive a flat payment for holidays at the rate of $154,90 per day. This amount will be subject to the future increase according to Article 15:01.
An employee who has accumulated 120 days seniority will be granted one floater holiday per calendar year to be taken at a time satisfactory to the Company. Floaters cannot be accumulated from year to year.
17:02	(a) In order to be entitled to payment for a plant
holiday, an employee must have worked the full working day immediately preceding the holiday and the full working day immediately following the holiday, provided that an employee who fails to work due to lay-off or illness which is verified to the satisfaction of the Company, shall not thereby
27
be disqualified from receiving holiday pay provided he has worked on one or more of the twenty-one (21) working days prior to the holiday and/or returns to work on any of the twenty-one (21) working days following the holidays.
(b)	There shall be no duplication of holiday pay between the Company, Workers Compensation Board or Unemployment Insurance. The Company shall complete the difference in the amount paid by the Insurance if applicable.
17:03	If an employee works on one of the above-named paid
holidays, except Christmas or New Year's, he shall receive payment at the time and one-half (1 1/2) his regular rate and in the case of Christmas and New Year's, double (2 X) time, for the hours worked by him in addition to receiving his holiday pay.
17:04	Where one of the above-named paid holidays falls during
an employee's approved vacation period, he shall have a choice between the pay for an extra day or an extra vacation day.
17:05	For the purpose of this agreement, a paid holiday shall
begin at 7:00 hrs of that day and end at 7:00 hrs of the following day. However, in the departments where the regular schedule differs, a paid holiday shall begin and end according to the regular working hours of the department concerned.
ARTICLE 18 - WORK SCHEDULE AHD OVERTIME
18:01	(a) The following paragraphs and sections are intended
to define the normal hours of work and shall not be constructed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week or of days of work per week.
(b) There shall be a fifteen (15) minute coffee break in the morning and afternoon at the time presently in effect. The same to apply on second and third shifts. The company reserves the right to advance or delay this break by thirty (30) minutes. If, in the opinion of the Union, this right is abused, the Company will be advised.
(c)	The Company shall continue to supply tea and coffee daily to the employees.
(d)	It is understood that the Company could start a third work shift in certain aspects of production, such as slasher or planer for example. It is
28
understood that schedules Will be discussed by both
parties in the event such a thing happens.
18:02	The standard pay period for each department is defined in
the following schedule.
18:03	WORK SCHEDULE
(a)	CONTRACT WORKERS
Five (5) days a week, Monday thru Friday. An employee who has worked every day of the two weeks pay period may request to be excused from work on the Friday of the short week. If the request is made two (2) days in advance, it will not be unduly refused.
(b)	SAWMILL WORKERS AND PLANERS
Five (5) days of nine (9) hours:	First week; Four (4)
days of nine (9) hours:	Second week; 7:00 hrs to 12:00
hrs and 13:00 hrs to 17:00 hrs for day shift; 19:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs and 1:00 hr to 5:00 hrs for night shift.
(C) ALL TRADES
Including Stockroom,helpers and loader operators. Five (5) days of nine (9) hours:	First week; Four (4) days of
nine (9) hours:	second week. The short week and the
long week may be altered for some employees so that the department operates five (5) days every week, especially in the Stockroom, Carpentry, Plumbing and Electrical. The normal hours are 7:00 hrs to 18:00 hrs as well as 19:00 hrs to 6:00 hrs, Upon mutual agreement, some employees may start their shift at a different time.
(d)	BOILER RCOK
X-Oay off	N-	Might	Shift		D-	Day	Shift
FIRST WEEK	SUN.	MON.	TUE.	WED.	THU.	FRI	. SAT.
Stocker No. 1	X	X	X	D	D	D	D
Stocker NO. 2	N	N	N	X	X	X	X
Stocker No. 3	X	X	X	N	N	N	N
Stocker No. 4 SECOND WEEK	D	D	D	X	X	X	
Stocker NO. 1	D	X	X	D	D	X	X
stocker No. 2	X	D	D	X	X	D	D
Stocker No. 3	N	X	X	N	N	X	X
stocker No. 4	X	N	N	X	X	N	N
29
THIRD WEEK
Stocker No.	1	X	X	X	N	N	N	N
Stocker No.	2	D	D	D	X	X	X	X
Stocker No.	3	X	X	X	D	D	D	D
Stocker No.	4	N	N	N	X	X	X	X
FOURTH WEEK Stocker No.	1	N	X	X	N	N	X	X
Stocker No.	2	X	N	N	X	X	N	N
Stocker No.	3	D	X	X	D	D	X	X
Stocker No.	4	X	D	D	X	X	D	D
Hours: l.		6:00	hrs	to 18:	:00 hrs			
18:00 hrs to 6:00 hrs
(e)	SAULT STE MARIE
Employees will follow salaries and contract as set out within this agreement.
(f)	GRAVEL TRUCK, HEAVY EQUIPMENT, MECHANICAL CUTTING
Five (5) days:	First week; Four (4) days:	second
week. Leave from gas station:	6;30 hrs. Return
to gas station: 18:00 hrs.
(g)	LOGGING TRUCK AND LOADING EQUIPMENT, SANDERS AND GRADERS
(h>
Five (5) days of nine (9) hours:	First week; Four
(4) days of nine (9) hours:	Second week, same for
night shift. Leave between 6:30 hrs and 7:30 hrs and return after completing nine (9) hours of production.
SPECIAL SCHEDULES
Clean Up
Day shift Night Shift
2.
3 .
hrs
hrs
to 13:00 hrs , to 19 : 00 hrs.
21:00 hrs to 1:00 hrs, 2:00 hrs to 7:00 hrs.
5:00 hrs to 15:00 hrs
7:00 hrs to 17:00 hrs
8:00 hrs to 18:00 hrs
(rotation)
:00 hrs to 19:00 hrs
(if necessary)
30
16 104
Electricians
(!) MILLWRIGHTS AND WELDERS Mi l iwrights:
Welders:
13:oo hrs to 23:oo hrs
7:00 hrs to 16:00 hrs;
15;30 hrs to 24:30 hrs; 22:00 hrs to 7:00 hrs.
7:00 hrs to 16:00 hrs;
Two (2) welders (days),
15:30 hrs to 24:30 hrs;
One (1) welder,
22:00 hrs to 7:00 hrs;
One (1) welder.
Welders and Millwrights are permitted to exchange their work temporarily up to a maximum of six (6) months on Company approval.
(j) If distance permits and by mutual agreement, heavy equipment operators may work nine (9) production hours. Such a change shall not result in overtime payment unless the nine (9) production hours are exceeded.
OVERTIME
(a)	Overtime at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) the employee's regular hourly rate of pay shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of his regularly scheduled hours in any given day or any given week. All hours, except regular scheduled hours, worked between 00:00 to 23:59 midnights on Sunday shall be paid at double time.
(b)	Overtime premiums shall not be paid more than once for any hour worked, and there shall be no pyramiding of overtime.
(c)	Overtime shall be distributed to all employees within a department or job classification on an as equitable basis as possible, provided the employee is capable, qualified and available when called or advised. If an employee refuses overtime work, for the purpose of equalization hereunder, he shall be deemed to have worked the overtime in question.
31
(d)	In the case of the cancellation of a shift or a part thereof for any reason, the Company shall endeavour when possible to advise the employee ten (10) hours in advance of such said cancellation, when the mill is operating one work shift. If the mill is operating two (2) work shifts, the employees should be advised at least one (1) hour before the start of their shift, not to show up for work. It is the employee's responsibility to supply the Company with a telephone number where he can be reached. In the case of heavy equipment operators and drivers in the bush they should be advised between 5:00 and 5:30 not to show up for work in the event a shift is cancelled.
(e)	Employees may be required to work in excess of their regular day, shift or week. Except in a case of emergency or where specific overtime work arrangements have been mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union, an employee will, upon his reasonable request, be excused from working overtime.
(f)	For calculating overtime pay, shift differential shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
(g) The shift of an employee may be changed upon request from the Company as long as he is paid time and a half his regular rate of pay for the first work shift after the change. Upon his return to his usual shift, the employee shall be paid his regular rate of pay, as long as there is a span of eight (8) hours between the shifts worked. These measures will not apply to call back after partial or general lay-off or to employees with less than thirty (3 0) days seniority.
<h) Rotation for all employees on shift work shall be done by successive rotation.
18:05	(1) The parties agree that the Company may, during the
terms of this Collective Agreement reorganize its operations to provide for a third shift.
(2)	The parties agree that such a reorganization will entail changes to the present normal hours and days of work for the employees covered by this agreement.
(3)	should the Company decide to implement such changes, the Company will advise and consult the
32
Union at least one (!) month before the intended
implementation of the changes.
(4)	In the event that such changes are made, the parties recognize and will effect the necessary changes to this agreement, including but not limited to changes in those provisions dealing with scheduling of employee's normal hours of work and overtime.
ARTICLE 19 - REPORTING PAY
19:01	(a) If an employee reports to work and is unable ta
commence work for reasons within the Company's control (it is understood that power failure is not within the Company's control) he shall be paid for one half (1/2) day if he works less than one half day and a full day if he works more than one half day. To qualify for this payment, the employee must remain on the job until told by a foreman that he may leave and may accept other than his normal work if it is offered. The employee may refuse this work, in which case he must punch out and will be disqualified for this reporting day's pay.
(b)	If a cutter, truck driver or heavy equipment operator in the Woods department (except for owner-operator) reports to work and is unable to commence work or to complete his day's work due to a breakdown arising from normal use of the machine he operates, and the Company is unable to provide him with a spare machine, he must accept other work if it is offered, If no other work is offered, he will be paid a maximum equal to four (4) hours. The middle of a working day is considered to be after five (5) hours of work. If the said breakdown exceeds two working days, the said employee will bump the employee with the least seniority in the department provided he has the requirements to do the job. The employee who has been bumped will be laid-off for the duration of the breakdown.
(c)	If an employee reports for overtime previously scheduled, and is refused work for any other reason than power failure, he shall be entitled to be paid a sum equal to four (4) hours regular time, but under no circumstances can this amount exceed what he would have earned if he had worked.
19:02	An employee called out to work after his normal hours in
case of emergency shall receive time and one-half (l 1/2)
33
his regular rate of pay, but in no cases shall he receive less than the equivalent of four (4) hours of pay if called to the industrial site or townsite at his straight time rate of pay. The highest amount shall prevail. All call out time begins when an employee punches in and ends when an employee punches out of the department to which he was called.
NOTE:
(a)	Generator considered townsite;
(b)	2400 volt lines considered industry;
An employee shall be deemed to be working overtime if he agrees to start his shift at an earlier time or stays past the end of his shift or comes back at an appointed time. If at all possible, the foreman should inform his employees at least one (l) hour before the end of their shift, if he wants them to remain or come back to work.
The employee coming in weekends for the dry kiln shall receive three (3) hours of pay at the regular rate. If work unrelated to the dry kiln is asked of him, it will be considered as another call.
19; 03	Stand-by pay shall be paid to those trades mentioned
below and under the following conditions only:
An employee selected by his supervisor for stand-by shall be paid for stand-by at the rate of two dollars ($2.00) an hour per day, on a twenty-four (24) hour basis. In addition he shall receive call out pay in accordance with Article 19:02,
An employee appointed for stand-by must advise the Boiler Room as to his whereabouts in case he may be needed.
The stand-by pay mentioned in this article shall apply to those employees employed as Electricians and Plumbers only.
ARTICLE 20 - EQUIPMENT MAIHTEHAHCE
20:01	(a) In the industrial area, the Company will perform
the maintenance on its mobile equipment, except for minor maintenance, where the operator, if asked, will help the mechanic perform said minor maintenance at his regular rate of pay if it is during his normal working hours. At the end of each shift he will perform an inspection of his machine and issue a report to his foreman.
34
(b)	in the bush operation, the Company will perform the
maintenance on its mobile equipment, except cor some greasing and minor breakdowns such as loose fan belts, hydraulic hose and fittings which will be performed by the operator (as long as they are accessible). At the end of each shift, the operator will perform an inspection of his machine and issue a report to his foreman.
(c)	All equipment operators throughout the Company will verify their fire extinguisher daily and obtain replacements when necessary.
ARTICLE 21 - GROUP INSURANCE - PENSION PLAN
21:01	(a) The Company agrees to pay, for the term of this
agreement, the full cost of the premium in regards to the London Life group insurance plan (No. T04536). Details of this plan are to be supplied to all employees. The life insurance policy shall be for thirty five thousand dollars ($35,000,00) for the duration of this agreement and effective from the date this agreement is signed.
And dependant insurance consisting of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for spouse and five thousand ($5,000.00) for eligible dependants.
(b) The Company shall maintain and bear the cost of a Weekly Indemnity Plan (London Life No. T04536) , Beginning on the date of signing of this agreement, the maximum amount shall be at four hundred dollars ($400.00). September 1,	1993 increase to four
hundred and thirty dollars ($430.00) . September 1, 1994 increase to four hundred and sixty five dollars ($465.00).
If the employee's weekly indemnity benefit claim is delayed by more than one (1) month, the Company will advance the net benefit payments to the employee.
21:02	The Company shall maintain and bear the cost of a Dental
Plan similar to the one now in effect. Relevant rates to be as follows:	From the date of ratification - amend
plan to provide the 1991 O.D.A. schedule. September 1, 1993 amend plan to provide the 1992 O.D.A. schedule. September 1, 1994 amend plan to provide the 1993 O.D.A, schedule.
21:03	Subject to London Life Group Health Insurance Plan
T04536, the Company shall continue to maintain and bear
35
21104
21:05
21106
2 1:07
21:08
the cost of a Vision plan of seventy five dollars ($75.00) per family member in any two consecutive calendar years.
(a)	If an employee is on L.T.D., he shall make application for premium assistance for government medical benefits available to him. The Company will assist in these applications where necessary and provide whatever supplementary coverage is required to provide the said employee with continuation of all medical benefits entitled to him at the time he became disabled.
For the purpose of this article, the terms 'Medical Benefits' shall mean O.H.I.P,, Visioncare Plan, Dental Plan, Healthguard sections and Life.
(b)	In order to better control costs and preserve
steady income to its members, the Union encourages its members to change position on a temporary basis, so as to permit the early return of an injured employee. This process will enable an employee temporarily handicapped by injury to find work more easily. In all cases there should be previous agreement between the Union and the Company.	Example: An employee with an arm in a
cast could take a position sitting in front of a console.
Subject to London Life Group Policy T04536, the Long Term Disability Plan will be increased to a maximum of one thousand five hundred and fifty dollars ($1,550.00) per month for the duration of this Agreement, effective September L, 1992 and to one thousand six hundred dollars ($1,600.00) effective September 1, 1994,
The following benefits will be paid during the month of lay off and the following month:
Life Insurance................(London	Life	TQ4536)
O.H.I.P.
Dental Insurance..............(London	Life	T04536)
Vision Insurance..............(London	Life	T04536)
Health Insurance Polyclinic... (London	Life	T04536)
Before ending benefits, the Company shall discuss each individual case with the Union.
PENSION PLAN
It is agreed and understood that the contributory pension plan implemented in May 1973 shall continue throughout the duration of this agreement.
36
ARTICLE 22 - PREMIUM PAY AMD COMPENSATION WHILE OH TRAIHIHG
22:01
(a) SHIFT PREMIUM
A shift premium of .45 cents per hour will be paid for all work performed on a regularly schedule second shift, from the date this agreement is signed, to be increased to .46 cents, effective September l, 1993 and to .49 cents effective September l, 1994,
(b) LEAD HAND PREMIUM
The lead hand shall receive a special premium for the time worked in that capacity.
The premium will be of .50 cents from the date this agreement is signed.
<c) TRAINING PROGRAM
should an employee need to follow a training course to qualify for a position (i.e. maintenance mechanic and lumber graders), the Company shall make up the difference between the candidate's salary and the amount paid by Unemployment Insurance. The Company reserves the right to do so for any course found to be of importance for its employees. In all events, progress reports on the success and seriousness of the candidates shall determine if these courses will go on.
<d) Effective the date of ratification, the Company agrees to pay twelve (12) man days per calendar year for education leave, at the employee's regular rate of pay.
ARTICLE 22 • MATERIAL SUPPLY
23 id COVERALLS
Coveralls shall be supplied to employee classifications presently wearing them. These coveralls shall be washed by the Company free of charge once a week or when required. If lost, the employee will pay cost of replacement.
PORTABLE CAMPS
A portable camp with stove shall be furnished to each team of conventional cutters and such camp shall follow the team as closely as possible. In the event that a team should be transferred for any reason on a temporary
37
basis, two teams could share a camp but only on a temporary basis when a camp cannot be immediately supplied.
ARTICLE 24 - MEALS
24:01 If an employee is requested to continue working past his normal schedule and this decision causes him to be working between 12:00 hrs (noon) and 13:00 hrs or from 17:00 hrs to 18:00 hrs, he shall be entitled to have his meal reimbursed up to a maximum of $10,00 per meal and must have written authorization issued by his superintendent or his replacement.
This payment shall also apply to an employee sent to work in a location such that it is impossible for him to eat at home (i.e. a mechanic sent in the woods in mid-morning with no possibility of return before 13;00 hrs) .
ARTICLE 25 - TRADE CLASSIFICATION EXAMS
25:01	Bargaining unit employees wishing to become apprentices
in trades mentioned in Article 25:03 shall be subjected to an aptitude test prior to being accepted as apprentice in the trade being applied for. He would then start at Class 3, base rates of attached schedule, except filers and lumber graders.
25:02 The use of Company exams mentioned in the attached schedule shall determine the degree of competence. successful passing of said trade exams shall be required to change classification in said trade. Exams shall be standard and the employee shall be entitled to view the answers at the end of the test, so he can correct himself. Should an employee fail said exam, he shall be obligated to wait three (3) calendar months prior to becoming eligible to rewrite said exam. It is the responsibility of the employee to advise his foreman in writing when he is eligible for writing said classification exam. If the company fails to provide him with such an exam at that time and he successfully passed said exam the first time, he shall be paid retroactive to the date of becoming eligible to write or the date he advised his foreman, whichever is shorter.
25:03	Trades which will be subjected to and included in the
above-mentioned examination	of	trades	and
classifications:
1.	Millwright (Sawmill)
2.	Welder
3.	Filers
38
4.	Electricians
5.	Lumber Graders (Planer)
6.	Carpenters
7.	Painters
8.	Plumbers
9.	Machinists
10.	Mechanics
11.	Heavy Equipment Operators
12.	Truck Drivers
2S:04	No employee shall qualify for Class 1, ADB or ADL rates
unless he has accumulated the required time in this trade as set forth in the attached schedule or unless already classified by the Company upon arrival.
ARTICLE 26 - WORK LIMITATIONS
26:01	Supervisory personnel shall not perform work which would
normally be a function of an employee in the job classification covered by this agreement, except when instructing employees in cases of emergency or to replace an employee (who is off work for any reason when no replacements are imjnediata Ly available), also except in trade classifications where all supervisors are classified as working supervisors, and when bargaining unit employees are not willing or available to perform such said work. Bargaining unit employees will receive preference for standby, call out and overtime.
ARTICLE 27 - BEHEFITS OF FORESTRY WORKERS AND TRADESMEN
27!01	Transportation of forestry workers shall be by bus or
truck, except for owner-operators and workers who have their own vehicle.
27; 02	(a) The Company shall provide free insurance coverage
aqainst loss by fire or theft of employee power saws to a maximum of $1400.00. The Company will provide additional free insurance coveraqe aqainst loss by fire or theft of tradesman's tools normally required by tradesmen, to the full value of such tools while on Company property, or worksite. An inventory of tools will be done once a year.
Each tradesman must provide a complete list of his tools. The woodcutter must supply the serial number of his chain saw. The employee shall have to pay a $25,00 deductible for each occurrence.
(b) Tradesmen who must supply their own tools, shall receive a yearly compensation equ,a 1 to 3% of the value of the tools deemed necessary for the type of
39
work. This amount to be paid at the end of each year of the contract.
2 7:03	Long moves shall be paid to pieceworkers on the hourly basis specified in Article 17; 01, provided such said moves entail a loss of working time in excess of one (1) hour under normal circumstances. In the case of long moves from a winter cut to a summer cut, all hours actually worked (in moving) shall be paid in accordance with Article 17:01 ($154.90 divided by 10 = $l5,49/hr at the time of signing).
o r- CM	TO help offset the cost of operation and special safety apparel for the cutter/skiddet team, the Company will pay, in mid-December of each calendar year, two percent (2%) of each cutter's gross earnings from cutting. The Company further agrees to sell to its cutting employees, files, chain oil, chain bars and up to ten (10) chains per year per employee at the Company's cost plus ten percent FOB Dubreuilville, To qualify for the above payment, an employee will have to be employed by the Company on December 1st of each year.
27:05	If necessary, the buses may be used in the woods during lunch hour.
27 : 06	The inner parts of the ear protectors will be supplied to the employees in the cutting department.
27 : 07	The work will be divided equally between the employees.
ARTICLE 20 - TRAVELLING TIME
28 101	Employees paid on a piecework basis and equipment operators who drive or are driven to and from a woods worksite will be paid for travelling time in the following manner: (a) all time spent travelling from the garage to the worksite if the trip exceeds one-half (1/2) hour.
28:02	(a)	Equipment operators will be paid their usual hourly rate for travelling time. (b)	Pieceworkers will be paid for travelling time in accordance with Article 17:01. (c)	Travelling time shall not be included when calculating the hours worked for the purpose of overtime. For no reason will any travelling time be considered overtime.
40
ARTICLE 24 -OFFICIAL LANGUAGE
29i0i	It is understood that, during the period of this
collective agreement, in case of interpretation problems or problems arising from clerical or translation error(s), the French version shall always prevail at all times since the said collective agreement was negotiated in French, and since French is regarded as the official language of this agreement.
ARTICLE 30 - TERM OP THE AGREEMENT
The Company and the Union agree that they will abide by the
articles of this Agreement from April 1, 1993 to March 31, 1996.
Both parties concerned, if they agree, shall be able to change one or more articles of this present agreement.
Ill WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto have signed this agreement, its duly authorized representatives as of the date and year first above written.
SIGNED AT DUBRBUILVILLE, ONTARIO THIS 14th DAY OF July, 1993
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
41
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
The parties hereby agree that all previous Letters of Agreement, Letters of Intent, Memorandums of Settlement and any other documents executed between the company and the Union shall be deemed null and void, save and except such that are specifically appended to this Collective Agreement. The parties also agree that any new Letters of Intent, Memorandums of Settlement or Agreements signed between them during the term of this Collective Agreement shall be deemed to expire with this Collective Agreement unless a shorter period of time is provided for in the Letter of Agreement.
SCHEDULE "A" PIECEWORKERS RATE (with limbs)
DIAMETER	SEPTEMBER 1, 1993
5”	.63
6"	.83
7"	1.24
8"	1.45
9”	1.87
10"	2.39
11”	2.92
12”	3 , 37
13”	3.60
14”	4.25
15 ”	4.94
16”	5 ,81
17”	6.60
18”	7,71
19"	9 ,05
20"	9,84
2i”	11 , 27
22"	12.66
23"	14.05
42
PIECEWORKERS RATES
(without limba) nee Schedule "A”
DIAMETER	SEPTEMBER 1, 1993
5"	.84
6"	l. 10
7"	1.66
8"	1.93
9 ii	2.50
10"	2.74
11"	3.19
12 ’’	4.47
13"	4.80
14”	5.67
15 ’’	6.59
16"	7.74
17 ”	8.81
18”	10.28
19 ’’	12.07
20"	13.12
21"	15.02
22”	16.87
23”	18.75
Delimbed poplar will be paid at -32% less than the above schedule.
Poplar cut for the construction of roads will be paid at -15% less than the above schedule.
(1)	scaling will be done according to the Government of Ontario scale Rules. The diameter will be written on the butt-end of each tree.
(2)	When work is done by the crew to clear skidway sites on constructed roads, a bonus of 5% of earnings will be paid for conifers on the aforementioned skidway site. If site needs no clearing or the site work is done by tractor or other machinery, no bonus shall be paid.
43
SCHEDULE “LI“
HOURLY RATBD CLASSIFICATIONS signing bonus - $1,000.00
Payable after ratification to all employees who have accrued 30 or more working days of seniority by June 30,	1993 and vho worked
anytime (i.e. one day) from September 1,	1992 to date of
ratification.
The following rats adjustments effective the date of ratification
Small Planer Poplar Plant Trades sawmill
WAGES
‘Truck Driver Gravel
Base (1 month)
C	(2nd month)
B	(3rd month)
A
‘Logging
Base (3 months)
A
Trimmer
crane - A ADL Card Loader
SEPT 1, 1992
16.12
16.23
16.36
16.49
16.49
16.66
‘Koehring
Base (3 months) B (3 months) A
17.24 17.94
18.24
‘Grader
Base (1 month)
B (3 months) A
16.76
17.48
17.85
‘Bulldozer JD7S0 & JD850 & D6
Base (3 months)
B (3 months)
A
16.70 17.00 18.10
25/hr 57/hr 50/hr 18 /hr
SEPT 1, 1993 SEPT 1, 1994
16.60
16.72
16.85
16.98
16.98
17.16
17.76
18.48
18.79
17.26
18.00
18.39
17.18 17.31 17.44 17.57
17.57
17.76
18.38
19.13
19.45
17.86
18.63
19.03
17.20
17.51
18.64
17.80
18.12
19.29
TD25 t D8 k D9
Base (1 month)
B (2 months) A
17.00
17.19
18.36
17.51
17.72
18.91
18.12
18.34
19.57
44
*Load»r (Gravel)
Base (1 month)	16.93	17.44	18.05
A	18,03	18,57	19.22
In the event that the Cat 235 Loader Is transferred by the company from the Woodlands Department to the Sawmill Department and there is a temporary cessation of the Woodlands Operation for a period of three (3) days or more this article will then apply and the Woodlands Operator of this machine shall have the ability to bump onto the Cat 235 Loader. The cat 235 Loader will be used for loading purposes only.
*Shovel	operator		
Base (3	months)	16.93	17,44
B {3	months)	17,15	17 . 66
A		18,32	18 .87
18.05
18.28
19.53
MECHANICAL LOOSING
W^GSS	SEPT 1/ 1992 SEPT 1, 1993 SEPT 1,	1994
■^Conventional Skidder
Base (3 months)	16.91	17.76	—
A	17.16	18.02	““
Maximum distance for Skidder is 900 feet.
*Clam Bunk (Skiddar,, 7oLvo, Preotioa)
Base (1 month)
B (1 month)
A
16.37 16.86 17,45 16.50 17.00 17,60 16.73 17.23 17.83
*Feller, deliaier Base	(1	month)	16.37
B	{1	month)	16.50
A	16.73
16.86 17 . 00 17.23
17,45 17 , 60 17,83
* p«11er- forwarder
Base	(1 month)	16.37
B	(1 month)	16.50
A	16.73
16.86 17 . 00 17,23
17,45 17 . 60 17.83
A production bonus of one and a half (1 1/2 cents) per tree 5M or more in diameter shall be paid to all operators of delimbers. All bonuses paid shall be subject to actual counts when logs are placed on skidway and determined by actual tally.
*$p4sra«4a (Woods)
Base (1 month) 17.26 17.78 18.40 B (3 months) 17.45 17.97 18.60 A 18,58 19.14 19.81
45
* * *** *** ***
*** *** * * *
*
hhh
***
hhh
hills
hhh
hhh
hhh
hh
hhh
hhh
hh
POSITIONS • SAWING POSITIONS CLASS 'A*
Swecan No. 1 operator (Canter)
Swecan No. 2 operator (Canter)
Forano operator (Twin Bandsaw)
Hardy operator (Twin Bandsaw)
CMNE operator NO. 1 CMNE operator No. 2
CLASS 'B1
Edger Feeder • Small mill (Edger)
Forano No. 1 Tailer (Twin)
Forano No. 2 Tailer (Twin)
Trimmer operator left and right - Big Mill
sorting table - Big Mill Slasher No. L operator Slasher No. 2 operator slasher No. 3 operator Prentice operator (fixed loader)
Pentice No. L operator (fixed loader)
Vulcan No. 3 operator (fixed loader)
CLASS *C
chipper operator
Operator at the Small Pond
New Stacker operator
small Trimmer operator
Sorter, Big Sorting Table (Boardway)
Delimber Tailer - Small Mill Small Swecan Feeder (Canter)
Big Sorter Table stacker operator (Boardway)
Feeder of the two 325 Debarkers
Bull Edger operator • Big Mill (Edger)
Small Sorting Table Stacker operator (Boardway)
Debarker Feeder 412
Debarker Feeder 302
Debarker Feeder 423
Small Kill Sorting Table 3" and 4"
Hardy Tailer (Twin)
Cleaning of Big and Small Mills
CLASS 'D*
Labourer
Sorter, Slasher No. 3 Top Trimmer operator
Men working on both Sorting Tables (Boardways) Tunnel Operator
46
WAGES-SAWHILL
SEPT 1, 1992 8EPT 1,	1993 SEPT 1, 1994
CLASS 'A'
Base (1 month) A
15.99	16.47	17.05
16.11	16.59	17.17
CLASS 'B'
Base
A
15.71	16.18	16.75
15.83	16.30	16.87
CLASS 'C
Base
A
15.59	16.06	16.62
15.70	16.17	16.74
CLASS 'D'
15.29
15.75
16.30
***sparena&
Base (1 month)
15.53 15.81 16.09 16.37
16.00
16.28
16.57
16.86
16.56
16.85
17.15
17.45
Loader
Base (1 month) C
A
15.41 15.87 16.43 15.76 16.23 16.80 16.13 16.61 17.19 16.50 17.18 17.78
SEPT 1, 1992
SEPT 1, 1993 SEPT 1, 1994
•FILERS
CLASS 'C*
Base (3 months) B	(6 months)
A (12 months)
16.62
16.76
16.92
17.12
17.26
17.43
17.72
17.86
18.04
CLASS *B'
Base (3 months) B	(6	months)
A (12 months)
17.06
17.25
17.46
17.57
17.77
17.98
18.18
18.39
18.61
CLA8S 'A
Base (6 months) c (12 months) B (18 months) A
18.06
18.56
19,06
19.90
18.60
19.12
19.63
20.50
19.25
19.79
20.32
21.22
47
BIB PLANER
WAGES - PLANERS
SEPT 1, 1992 SEPT 1, 1993 8EPT 1, 1994
* * * Fied e c
Base (i month) A
***Tri&mer
Base (1 month) A
15.59 15.70
15.95
16.06
16.06 16.17
16.43 16.56
16.62
16.74
17.01
17.14
If the Trimmer on the large planer holds a Class A grader card, he will receive 0,50 cents an hour more than negotiated for the position. However, he agrees not to change wages for any work period less than a full day in the position of grader. It is understood that in the event he replaces the grader on a regular basis, he will receive grader wages for those periods worked in that capacity.
***Gra4er
Base (3 months)
c
A (Licenced OLMA)
***8taeker #1
Base (1 month)
A
***8tacker #2
Base (1 month)
A
***Pr«as
Base (1 month)
A
***Stackar and Latha Workers
***Yardman Base (1 month)
A
***6parenan
Base (1 month) c (2 months)
All jobs except graders All jobs
14.65
16.05
17.46
15.41
15.62
15.59
15.70
15.41
15.53
15.29
15.41
15.41
15.47
15.70
16.07
15.09
16.53
17.98
15.87
16.09
16.06
16.17
15.87
16.00
15.75
15.87
15.87
15.93
16.17
16.55
15.62
17.11
18.61
16.43
16.65
16.62
16.74
16.43
16.56
16.30
16.43
16.43
16.49
16.74
17.13
48
SMALL PLANER
***Feeder
Base (1 month) A
15.59	16.06	16.62
15.70	16.17	16.74
•••Triaaer
15.29	16.01
16.57
***Grader
Base (3 months)	15.65
C	16.05
A (Licenced OLMA)	17.46
16.12
16.53
17.90
16.68
17.11
18.61
***8taoker
Ease (1 month) A
15.59	16.06	16.62
15.70	16.17	16.74
***8orting-Lathes
Labourer	15.29	15.75	16.30
**Loader operator
Base
C
B
A
s both Planers 15.59 15.94 16.30 16.68
16.06
16.42
16.79
17.18
16.62
16.99
17.38
17.78
STOCKROOM
Base	(3 months)
D	(3 months)
C	(12 months)
B	(l2 months)
A	
15.29
15.53
15.76
16.13
16.50
15.75
16.00
16.23
16.61
17.00
16.30
16.56
16.80
17.19
17.60
BOILER ROOK
SEPT 1, 1992 SEPT 1, 1993 SEPT 1/
**4th Boiler Operator,
(without cert.)	15.39
4th Boiler Operator,
(with certificate)	15.89
3rd Boiler Operator,
(with certificate)	16.39
15.85
16.37
16.88
16.40
16.94
17.47
49
1994
MISCELLANEOUS
SEPT 1, 1992 SEPT 1, 1993 SEPT 1, 1994 ♦Millwright helper, Carpenter/Plumber, Tireman, Greaser:
Base (3 months) A
15.29
16.08
15.75
16.56
16.30
17.14
WAGES - POPLAR PLAN
SEPT 1, 1992
Crane D (Base)
C
B
A
Prentice
Slasher
Employee in charge of loading chips (Poplar)
15.59 15.78 15.83 16.11
15.70
15.70
SEPT 1, 1993
16.06
16.25
16.30
17.18
SEPT 1, 1994
16.62
16.82
16.87
17.78
16. 17 16.17
16. 74 16.74
15.70	16.1
TRADES
^Electricians
♦Painters *Plumbers ♦Machinists
♦Mechanics
♦Welders
*Carpenters
SEPT 1,	'92 SEPT 1,	'92 SEPT l, '92 SEPT 1/
CLASS 3
Base (6 months) A (6 months) with exam
CLASS 2
Base (8 months) A (8 months) with exam
CLASS 1
Base (10 months)
B (22 months)
with exam
ADB
ADL
15.73
16.26
16.48
16,71
17.40 17,90
18.40
16,0$
16.40
16.76
17.14
17,94
18.79
20,24
16.08
16.25
16.43
16,60
17.26
17.76
18.29
16,08
16.36
16.6$
16.96
17,75
18.48
19.02
92
50
SEPT 1, '93 SEPT 1, >93 SEPT 1, '93 SEPT 1, '93
CLASS 3
Base (6 months) A (6 months) with exam
CLA8S 2
Base (0 months) A (8 months) with exam
CLASS 1
Base (10 months)
B (22 months)
with exam
ADB
ADL
17.92 18.44 19.47
16.56 16.89
17.26 17.65
18.48
19.35
21.36
16.56 16.74
16.92 17.10
17.78
10.29
19.99
16.56
16.85
17.10 17.47
18.28
19.03
20.11
SEPT 1, '94 SEPT l, '94 SEPT 1, '94 SEPT 1, <94
CLASS 3
Base (6 months) A (6 months) with exam
CLASS 2
Base (8 months)
A (8 months) with exam
CLASS 1
Base (10 months)
B	(22 months)
with exam
ADB
ADL
18.55
19.09
20.15
17.14
17.48
17.86
18.27
19.13
20.03
22.11
17.14 17.33
17.51 17.70
18.40
18.93
20.69
17.14 17.44
17.78
18.08
18.92
19.70
20.81
Effective the date of ratification the Bush Mechanic and helper will receive 0.70 cents per hour for working hours (not including travelling time) actually in the bush. Travelling time shall not be included when calculating the hours worked for the purpose of overtime. For no reason will any travelling time be considered as overtime. For the purpose of calculating overtime pay this 0,70 cents shall not be considered as part of the mechanics applicable rate.
51
GREASER
SEPT 1, 1992 SEPT 1, 1993
SEPT 1, 1994
Greaser
Base (6 months) B
A with exam
16.08
16.26
16.48
16.56
16.75
16.97
17.14 17.34 17.56
MILLWRIGHT
SEPT 1, 1992 SEPT 1, 1993
SEPT 1, 1994
Millwright helper
B
A
16.08
16.48
16.56
16.97
17.14
17.56
Millwright
B
A
ADL
17.40	17.92	18.55
17.90	18.44	19.09
18.40	19.47	20.15
52
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE:	ARTICLE 2 CONTRACTORS
1.	Our employees will be given the first opportunity to purchase equipment for the woodlands operations, when the need arises, and If the Company does not wish to do so itself.
2.	The employee with the greatest departmental seniority in the woodlands operations who indicates a desire to purchase such equipment will be allowed to do so. The Company shall advise the employees of department 1 first, secondly department 4 and lastly, all other employees, each time the need arises to buy additional equipment which the Company is not prepared to purchase itself.
3.	Any owner-operator who purchases more than one piece of equipment in the woodlands operations becomes a contractor, as such, is excluded from the bargaining unit, effective date of 2nd purchase.
4.	Woodland contractors Haran Ltd. and Mr. Plourde will not have the right to increase the amount of production equipment in the woodlands operations without the agreement of the Company and the Union. Presently Haran Ltd. has two feller-bunchers, 3 grapple skidders and 2 cable skidders. Mr. Plourde has one grapple skidder.
5.	The company agrees to not reduce the present conventional cutting operation while Haran Ltd. is on the limits and worksites of the Company. The only way it will be reduced will be if an employee of department 1 buys a feller-buncher or grapple skidder.
53