SA8KF0M. MACM2LLAM LIMITED lPr.,YW€-OD, CAWiVniT/TLAMLA
clerical mvmom
F\ \
:s»\
AND
H.W.A. CANADA, LOCAL I-384
April I, 1999to March 31,2002 April I, 2002 to March 31,2004
.i
INDEX
ARTICLE
1	Scope
2	Union Recognition
3	Employee Security
4	Management Rights
5	Employee File
6	Leave of Absence
7	Committees
8	Adjustment of Grievances
9	Arbitration
10	Discipline & Dismissal Procedure
11	Seniority
12	Demotions & Reductions
13	increases In Staff Apprenticeship
14	Job Posting
15	Technological Change
16	Occupational Health
17	Safety & I-lealth
18	First Aid
19	Accident Compensation
20	Tools
21	Annual Vacations
22	Statutory Holidays
23	Pay Days
24	Pension Plan
25	Hours of Work, Differentials & Overtime
26	Retirement
PAGE
2
4
5
5
6 6
10
11
15
16 18 21 22 24 27
30
31 33 36
36
37 37 40
43
44 46 53
53
55
55
55
ARTICLE
31	Fire Crews
32	Classifications & Rates of Pay Sawmill Rate Schedule Trades & Apprenticeship Rates Plywood Rate Schedule Premiums
33	Duration of Agreement Supplement#! - Plywood Job Evaluation Supplement #2 - Sawmill Job Evaluation Supplement #3 - Group Insurance Benefits Supplement #4 - Clerical
- Rates of Pay Letters of Understanding No. 1 Startup Mondays - Sawmill/Planermill No. 2 Medical Travel Allowance No. 3 Clean-up Overtime No. 4 Training In Scope Positions No. 5 Stores No. 6 Trainee Overtime No. 7 Employees'Names on Overtime List No. 8 Week-end Overtime - Article 25:05 (b) No. 9 Week-end Overtime No. 10 Startup Mondays No. 11 Employee Trading Positions No. 12 Workplace Harassment Statement No. 13 Workplace Harassment Policy No. 14 Student Hiring No. 15 In Province Training Allowance No. 16 Out-of-Province Training Allowance
Page
55
56
57 61 63 70 70 72 79 88 97 109
114
114
117
17
18 18 19
19
20 20
121
121
123
126
127
128
AGREEMENT
Between
SASKFOR MACMILLAN LIMITED PLYWOOD, SAWMILL/PLANER & CLERJCAL DIVISIONS
hereinafter referred to as the “Company” of the first part
- and -
I.W.A. CANADA,
LOCAL 1-184
hereinafter referred to as the “Union” of the second part.
The purpose of this agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect of hours, wages, working conditions and living conditions as specified in this agreement; and to secure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operations, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This agreement provides for fair and peaceful settlement of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as the duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
i
ARTICLE 1 SCOPE
1:01 This agreement shall apply to all employees employed by Saskfor MacMillan Limited in the Province of Saskatchewan except the President, Vice Presidents, General Managers, Managers, Superintendents, Chief Financial Officer, Controller, Assistant Controller, Human Resource Services Coordinator, Supervisors and Executive Secretaries.
1:02 The Company agrees that contractors or subcontractors certified to a trade union or contractors of subcontractors paying union dues to the I.W. A., uniformly required of members of the l.W. A., on behalf of all employees on the construction site will be used on new building construction projects or changes to current building structures at all plants of Saskfor MacMillan Limited covered by the scope of this agreement.
1:03	(a) Contractors or subcontractors hired by the
Company to do production work on site at any plant covered by the scope of this agreement for a period in excess of five days in any one month will be required to pay union dues to the l.W.A., uniformly required of members of the I.W. A., on behalf of all the contractors’ or subcontractors’ employees on site.
(b) In regard to sub-contracting relating to the plant collective agreement, the Company will make every effort to employ an I.W.A. contractor first and
a unionized contractor.
In regard to work in the plant, the following is the order of preference:
1 st preference	Plant Personnel
2nd preference	IW A Contractor
3rd preference	Union Contractor	other
than I.W.A.
4th preference	Non-union Contractor
However, the need to manage costs is paramount and contracts for work in the plant will be awarded on the basis of competitiveness, reliability and quality of work. If an I.W.A. or another union contractor fails to meet the above conditions the successful contractor(s) will pay the same union dues uniformly required of members of the I.W.A., directly to the I.W.A.
When a contractor is selected, the Company will advise the Plant Committee who is the successful contractor. Should there be any concern, the Company is prepared to discuss these concerns with the Plant Committee and/or Local Union.
1:04 If any provisions of this Agreement or any collective agreement made in pursuance thereof, is found to be contrary to the provisions of any law, now or hereafter enacted, this Agreement will not be abrogated, but it is subject to such amendment as may be necessary to bring it into conformity with the law.
3
ARTICLE 2 UNION RECOGNITION
2:01 The Company agrees to recognize the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for the employees covered by this Agreement; and hereby consents and agrees to negotiate with the Union or its representatives in any and ail matters affecting the relationship between the Company and its employees.
2:02 The Company agrees that the Union may have the assistance of the representatives of I.W.A. in any negotiations or discussions between representatives of the Parties hereto.
2:03 It shall be a continued condition of employment that all present employees shall be members of the Union for the duration of this Agreement and that all employees who hereafter are employed by the Company shall within thirty (30) days of the commencement of their employment and as a condition of their employment, become members of the Union and shall maintain their membership in the Union during the term of this Agreement.
2:04 The Company agrees that upon written request by the Union, accompanied by signed authorization cards, all Union initiation fees, monthly dues, assessments of levies shall be deducted for and on behalf of the Union, and such monies shall be paid to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than the
4
fifteenth (1 5th) day of the month following the month for which the deductions are made. Monthly statements showing the names of all additions and deletions of staff shall also be forwarded to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union.
2:05 The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to sign Union Check-off forms in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union, for Union initiation fees, dues and sundry assessments.
The Local Union shall notify the Company by letter of the amount of back dues owed by new employees and copies of such letter be forwarded to the employee.
2:06 Access to the operation shall be granted to business representatives and staff of Local 1-184.
ARTICLE 3 EMPLOYEE SECURITY
3:01 Employees whose regularjobs are not within the scope of this agreement shall not work on any jobs which are included within the scope of this agreement except for purposes of instruction, testing of equipment, experimenting, developing of new products, or work beyond the expertise of maintenance personnel.
3:02 Normal routine maintenance in the plants shall not be contracted out except in cases of a major nature.
ARTICLE 4 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4:01 The management and the operation of and the
direction and the promotion of the working forces is vested exclusively in the management; provided, however, that this will not be used for the purposes of discrimination against employees.
ARTICLE 5 EMPLOYEE FILE
5:01 It shall be the Employer’s responsibility to maintain a file on all in-scope employees that will include the employee’s address, telephone number (optional) and contact person in the event of an accident. It shall be the responsibility of the employees to notify the Employer in writing of any change in address, telephone number (optional) and contact person.
5:02 Employees in the bargaining unit shall have access to their personal records at reasonable times and shall upon request be provided with copies of material contained in such records which shall be corrected if proven inaccurate.
ARTICLE 6 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
6:01 The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness for the term of this Agreement, subject to a medical certificate or medical reports as may be requested by the Employer. If requested in advance, an employee on such leave shall be subject to Company’s request that medical certificates be obtained on the day of illness or injury.
6:02 Any employee desiring leave of absence in Sec-
6
tions 3, 4, 5 and 6 below, must obtain permission in writing from the Company for such leave.
6:03	(a) The Company shall grant leave of absence to
employees who are appointed or elected to Union Office or as Union Representatives for the term of office. The Employee who obtains this leave shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after the completion of their term of employment with the Union and shall give fourteen (14) calendar days written notice of intention to return.
(b)	The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings or Union conventions or as members of any Negotiating Committee of the Union in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
(c)	The Employee shall provide due notice in writing to the Employer; in the case of (a) above, 14 calendar days; and in the case of(b) above, 48 hours.
6:04 If requested by the employee, a leave of absence of three (3) normally scheduled working days with pay shall be granted when a death or deaths occur in the employee’s immediate family. The purpose of this leave of absence is to allow the employee to attend and/ or arrange for the funeral, the leave shall be taken within seven (7) normally scheduled working days of the date
7
of the funeral. "Immediate family” is designated as the employee's father, mother, brother, sister, husband, wife, common-law spouse, son, daughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-inlaw, sister-in-law, step parents, grandparents, spouse's grandchildren, spouse's grandparents, grandchildren, legal guardian and ward of an employee. Only one spouse is recognized, not both, where reference is the the "Spouse's next of kin." Recognition of Common-Law Spouse will be that as defined in the Canada Pension Plan.
Example: Mother-in-law or Spouse's Grandparents, it shall mean the current Spouse's Mother or Grandparents whether the current Spouse is a legal Spouse or a Common-law Spouse. Bereavement Leave will also apply to the current Common-law Spouse's children who are dependent on the employee.
Pay for such leave shall be limited to the employee's normal number of hours per day at the employee's straight time hourly rate.
6:05 Employees shall be granted leave of absence in order to fill positions in Federal, Provincial or Municipal office for the duration of their term. An employee who obtains this leave shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of the term of office and shall give fourteen (14) calendar days written notice of intention to return.
8
6:06 Maternity Leave shall be granted at a level required by Provincial Labour Legislation. Extended maternity leave shall be subject to a medical certificate or medical reports as may be requested by the Company.
6:07 Employees required to be away from the job for the purpose of jury duty or required to appear as a witness shall receive his/her net loss in income at regular straight time rate of pay for normal working hours.
6:08 The Company agrees that leaves of absence without pay to a maximum of one year but with maintenance of seniority rights, may be granted to employees for good and sufficient reason. Such leaves shall be granted without discrimination. The approval of the Union and the Company must be obtained in all such cases of more than one week.
6:09 All leaves of absence referred to above shall be without pay, unless otherwise stated, but with the maintenance of seniority rights for the term of this Agreement and renewals thereof.
6:10	(a) Employees who are transferred from in-
scope positions to out-of-scope positions shall retain their seniority for a period of up to six months from the date of such transfer and if subsequently transferred back to an in-scope position shall be placed only in that position from which they were transferred. The out-ofscope employee shall pay Union dues for this period.
(b)	However, in the case of an employee who is transferred from a position within the scope of this agreement to a position as a relief foreman, the employee will accumulate seniority while in the “out-of-scope’’ position for a period up to and including sixty (60) working days annually. In cases of relief for long terni illness or injury the time limits may be extended by mutual agreement and reviewed every sixty (60) working days.
When an employee works as a relief supervisor during the work week, he or she will not be eligible for productioi or maintenance overtime during that work week.
(c)	Notification of the name and position of a relief supervisor will be given to the senior available Union Representative and a notice will be placed as soon as possible on bulletin boards. All provisions of 3:01 will apply to temporary supervisors. The Company agrees that at no time will Hourly Relief Supervisors be used for periods less than a full shift except in emergency circumstances.
ARTICLE 7 COMMITTEES
7:01 Negotiating Committee
(a)	A Negotiating Committee for the purpose of negotiations with the Company shall be recognized as the authorized negotiating representatives of the Union.
IO
(b)	A Negotiating Committee for the purpose of negotiations with the Employer on matters of concern to only one plant location of the Corporation shall be recognized as the authorized negotiating representatives of the Union.
(c)	The Company shall meet with the said Committee with respect to proposals for modification of the agreement as outlined in Article 32. An accredited official(s) ofthe Union may participate in any such negotiations.
(d)	The Union shall supply the Company with the names of the employees constituting the Negotiating Committee and shall inform the Company two (2) days prior to any meeting of any changes in the members of the said Committees.
(e)	The Company agrees to reimburse employees for fifty (50) percent of wages lost as a result of time spent in negotiations with the Company; provided, however, that the Company will reimburse employees for one hundred (100) percent of wages lost in the event that negotiations are conducted in a locality other than that in which the plant is situated.
ARTICLE 8 ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES.
8:01 STEP 1
In the event of a grievance arising during the currency of this agreement the employee or employees concerned shall first refer the matter to the shop steward of
ii
their choice on shift who may then take the matter to the immediate supervisor concerned. No grievance will be recognized by the Company unless referred to the immediate supervisor concerned within fifteen (I 5) days of its occurrence. The immediate supervisor concerned shall discuss the grievance with the shop steward and the employee or employees concerned and shall render a decision within five (5) working days of being notified of the grievance. However, where an employee considers an emergency the effect of which may be detrimental to safety, the immediate supervisor concerned must render a decision immediately.
STEP 2
In the event that the immediate supervisor concerned does not give a decision satisfactory to the Union, or does not render a decision within the time prescribed above, the Grievance Committee of the Union shall refer the grievance to the senior plant official or designate. The senior plant official shall discuss the grievance with the grievance committee and the aggrieved employee and shall render a decision within five (5) working days of being notified of the grievance.
If the Union does not refer the grievance to the senior plant official within eight (8) days the grievance will automatically move to Step 3.
STEP 3
In the event that the Senior Plant Official or designate
12
does not give a decision satisfactory to the Union or does not render a decision within five (5) working days prescribed above, the Grievance Committee shall notify the General Manager or designate in writing of the grievance. The General Manager or designate shall meet with the Grievance Committee at a time mutually arranged and will render a decision within ten (10) working days from the date of such meeting or from the date upon which he/she is requested to render a decision if no meeting is held.
If the Union does not notify the General Manager within eight (8) days the grievance will automatically move to Step 4.
STEP 4
If a satisfactory solution is then not reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
8:02 In the event of the absence of the authorized agent or agents of the Company at any step, it shall be permissible to proceed with the next highest step of the foregoing procedure immediately.
8:03 The Union shall promptly notify the Company of the personnel of its Grievance Committee and of any changes in the personnel and the Company shall notify the Union of the names of officials of the Company referred to herein.
13
8:04 In the discussion of grievances with representatives of the Company, the Grievance Committee may at any time be accompanied by representatives of I.W.A. Canada.
8:05 Where a grievance involves questions or interpretation or employees from more than one department, the procedure will start with Step 3.
8:06 As far as is practical all grievances will be dealt with during regular working hours without loss of earnings. Where grievances are dealt with off regular working hours the employees engaging in the discussion of grievances with representatives of the Company shall be paid at regular straight time rate of pay for time so spent. The aggrieved employee or employees shall be considered as participants in the handling of such disputes and grievances.
8:07 Time Limits - In the foregoing steps of the grievance procedure, Steps 1 through 3, time limits may be extended by mutual consent.
8:08 If a satisfactory solution is not reached it shall be dealt with by arbitration as provided in Article 9 if the request for arbitration is received by the Company in writing thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the Company’s third step answer in the Local Union Office.
14
ARTICLE 9 ARBITRATION
9:01	(a) In the case of a dispute arising under this
Agreement or any question of interpretation of this Agreement which the Parties are unable to settle between themselves as set out in Article 8, the matter shall be determined by arbitration in the following manner:
Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by registered mail of the question or questions to be arbitrated and the name and address of its chosen representative for the Arbitration Board. After receiving such notice and statement the other Party shall, within three (3) days appoint an arbitrator, and give notice in writing of such appointment and the name and address of its arbitrator. If the two arbitrators appointed by the Parties fail to agree upon a Chairman within ten (10) days they shall forthwith request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Saskatchewan to appoint a Chairman.
(b)	No one shall serve as a member of an Arbitration Board who has participated in the grievance procedure preceding the arbitration.
(c)	The decision of the Arbitration Board shall be by majority vote, and shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Parts.
9:02 The Parties of the First and Second Parts will each bear the expense and charges of its representatives on any Arbitration Board, and shall bear in equal propor-
15
tions the expenses and allowances of the Chairman, stenographic and secretarial expense, and rent.
9:03 There shall be no strike pending Grievance and Arbitration procedure. The Union further agrees that it will not cause, promote, sanction, or authorize any strike, sit down, slow down, sympathetic strike or any other interference with work by the employees for any cause whatsoever until all provisions of this Agreement relating to Grievance and Arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Company.
9:04 There shall be no lockout pending Grievance and Arbitration procedure. The Company further agrees that it will not create or institute any lockout of the employees with respect to any dispute between the Company and the Union or the Company and its employees until all provisions of the Agreement relating to Grievance and Arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Union or its employees.
ARTICLE 10 DISCIPLINE AND DISMISSAL PROCEDURE
10:01 Except in cases when the Company considers that an employee’s conduct warrants dismissal, the practice shall be to warn employees in the presence of a
16
Shop Steward, available on shift, of the employee’s choice, at which time the employee shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
10:02 In cases where the conduct of an employee is considered by the Company to warrant dismissal, such employee shall be suspended pending investigation of the matter.
10:03 Should an employee be dismissed (suspended), laid off, or demoted and it is later established that such dismissal (suspension), lay-off or demotion was unfair or not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, he/she shall immediately be returned to his/her former status in all respects and shall be compensated for his/her net loss in earnings suffered by reason of such dismissal (suspension), lay-off or demotion
10:04 Employees shall be notified in writing of the reasons for discipline or discharge. The Union shall receive a copy.
10:05 The Employer shall provide the employee and the Union with a copy of any written warning or adverse report affecting the employee. Any reply by the employee shall become part of his/her record. The record shall be reviewed and expunged twelve (12) months from the last infraction.
10:06 Demotion shall not be used as a disciplinary
17
measure.
10:07 If any employee is absent from one or mure shifts without giving the Corporation reasonable notice he/she may be subject to a suspension of three (3) shifts unless he/she gives the Corporation a written reason for his/her absence.
Acceptable reasons are as follows: personal or family illness (signed doctor’s slip), road impassable, etc. (Written reason signed by the employee and countersigned by the Plant Chairman.)
ARTICLE 11 SENIORITY
11:01 The seniority of an employee shall be unit-wide and shall be established in accordance with subsection (1) below:
(1)	Employees may acquire seniority by working thirty (30) days during a period of one hundred and twenty (120) days in which event the employee’s seniority will date back to the date at the beginning of the one hundred and twenty (120) day period. Until an employee acquires seniority under this section, he/she shall be considered probationary.
(2)	An employee’s service shall be considered broken by reason of:
{a} dismissal forjust cause.
{b} voluntary resignation,
18
{c} continuous lay-off due to lack of work for a period in excess of twelve (12) months plus one (1) month for each year of service up to a maximum of six (6) additional months.
{d} failure to report within ten (10) days after being notified by registered mail to report following a layoff unless the employee can give a reason satisfactory to the Company for such failure to report within the time prescribed.
11:02 In the application of seniority, it shall be determined by the seniority unit. The following will each constitute one seniority unit:
(a)	Carrot River Sawmill, Planermill, and Woods
(b)	Hudson Bay Plywood and Woods
(c)	Clerical Unit
Any additions to the present operation of Saskfor MacMillan Limited shall become a subject of interim negotiations to determine if such employees shall join existing seniority units or comprise a new one.
11:03 The Company agrees to prepare and post, not later than January 31 st of each year, or at such other times as may be mutually agreed upon, in places easily accessible to all employees, a list of the names of all employees showing their seniority standing, this being open to protest by employees for thirty (30) days from the date of such submission and for thirty (30) days
19
from the date of return to work in the case of employees on lay-off at January 31 st. Upon proof of error being established by a representative of the Union, correction shall immediately be made. Seniority of new employees hired at exactly the same time shall be determined in accordance with the alphabetical order of their surnames. The Company will supply the Union with a copy of seniority lists and corrections thereto.
11:04 Casual employees shall be defined as employees who do not hold a regular full time bid job but are available for relief work or temporary work resulting from peak overloads.
1.	A separate seniority list will be maintained for casual employees with casual seniority based on their
date of hire.
2.	Casual employees will be permitted to exercise their seniority only for the purpose of claiming available casual work and bidding on posted regular full time jobs as outlined below.
3.	Casual employees will be called for available casual work in order of seniority.
4.	Casual employees who have worked thirty (30) days during a period of one hundred and twenty (120) days will have the right to bid on posted regular full time jobs and will be selected on the basis of casual seniority
20
provided that they are capable of performing the posted job, An employee so appointed will be considered to have served their probationary period. The successful applicant will be removed from the casual seniority list and placed on the regular list as holding the bid job.
5.	Casual employees refusing available work without an acceptable reason will be removed from the casual list.
ARTICLE 12 DEMOTIONS AND REDUCTIONS
12:01 (a) In the event of lay-off employees shall be laid off in the reverse order of their bargaining unit seniority. Senior employees shall be retained.
(b)	In the event of a lay-off or should a bid job cease to apply, application of seniority shall apply in the following manner providing the employee is capable of doing the work required.
1.	The affected employee may exercise their seniority to displace a less senior employee.
2.	An employee who has been displaced may exercise their seniority to displace another less senior employee
and so on.
3.	An employee who exercises seniority shall hold that position as their bid job until such time as there is a call back.
21
4.	In the case of a renewed position the employee who held that bid may be returned to that position at the employee’s discretion provided the job is renewed within one year. A renewed position is one that will be continued on a regular job schedule. If an employee refuses to exercise their right to return to the renewed position the provisions of this clause shall no longer apply.
12:02 If in the opinion of the Company there is additional work of ten (10) days or less at the time any lay-off is to become effective, then employees will work for up to ten (10) days and further notice of lay-off will not be required provided the additional work does not extend beyond a ten (I O) day period.
12:03 If an employee is recalled from lay-off for temporary work of ten (10) working days or less, then notice of lay-off is not required. Employees shall be notified when called in for temporary work that it is temporary work.
12:04 Where an employee has been in the service of the Company continuously for one (1) month or more, the employee shall not be subject to lay-off without having been given at least one (1) week written notice of such lay-off or termination.
ARTICLE 13 INCREASES IN STAFF
13:01 Employees shall be recalled in the order of their
22
seniority provided they have the ability to perform such jobs following a reasonable trial period. Notification of rehiring of those who cannot be contacted by normal methods shall be by registered mail addressed to the last address which the employee shall have registered with the Company. Until such time as the employees recalled to work actually report back to work, the Company shall be entitled to hire employees on a temporary basis.
13:02 The Company agrees to employ Union members belonging to the locals or sub-locals of I.W.A. Canada, Local 1-184 if available, in the respective areas in which their operations are carried on, in preference to non-union workers not in the employ of the Company, for jobs coming within the scope of this Agreement.
13:03 Employees must advise the Company as to when they will report for work within five (5) working days of receipt of the notice to report for work.
13:04 In an emergency a reasonable effort shall be made to call people in order of seniority. However if people are not available for recall in order of seniority then other union people may be recalled, or non-union people may be hired.
13:05 Former members of Her Majesty’s forces, where practicable and if available, shall be given preference of employment when further additions to the staff are
23
necessary.
13:06 (a) The Company agrees to hire only certified maintenance people or else indenture employees into an apprenticeship programme.
(b)	Maintenance positions shall be bid either as apprentice start or certified journeyman. The successful applicant shall then have any previous experience reviewed and be paid at a level commensurate with that experience.
(c)	APPRENTICESHIP - Plant seniority shall continue to be the determining factor when apprenticeship bid jobs are awarded, except in the case of:
{i} Those persons who have previously completed apprenticeship training in any of the recognized trades while employed and sponsored by the present company.
{ii} Those employees who commenced apprenticeship training and of their own volition choose not to complete the training.
Those persons in the above mentioned categories will not be awarded an apprenticeship bid if there are any other applicants from outside of the above categories.
1.	PURPOSE - The purpose of this agreement is to
24
establish an equitable criteria which will give management reasonable assurance that the apprentice, upon completion of indentureship, will become a proficient trades person and to assure the Union and its members that the senior applicant, who meets the criteria, will become an apprentice.
2.	EDUCATION PREREQUISITES - The education requirement for general trades is Grade 1 0 or equivalent and Grade 11 with geometry, algebra and physics at the Grade 11 level or higher or equivalent standing for the electrical trades.
3.	APTITUDE TESTING - Applicants will be tested in accordance with the bank of tests as agreed to by the Company and the Union. Testing procedure will be as
follows:
(a)	Upon the signing of this agreement both Management and the employees will be apprised of the standard testing procedure.
(b)	The passing grades for the tests will be 70%.
(c)	Tests will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by Management; a Union representative will be present when the tests are given and marked.
(d)	Tests recommended for the self-evaluation will be made available and may be taken by any interested
25
employee. Failure to take such test shall not jeopardize an employee’s application for any apprenticeship.
4.	RE-TESTING
(a)	It is agreed that where an applicant has failed to pass the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations Section of either the Mechanical or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-tested one (1) additional time for each test.
(b)	Results of all tests will be retained on file in the Company’s office. An applicant who has met the criteria and successfully passed the requisite test and is the senior applicant for any future apprenticeship posting within a three (3) year period, will be considered the successful applicant.
(c)	An applicant who qualifies and has passed the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of any of the available tests, but failed the overall test, will be eligible to bid and be re-tested for any future apprenticeship posting.
5.	PROBATIONARY PERIOD - The successful applicant will be given a probationary period up to ninet; (90) days.
6.	SELECTION REVIEW - Where a dispute arises out of the selection of an apprentice that cannot be resolved at the plant level, the matter will be discussed
26
by Management and the Local Union.
ARTICLE 14 JOB POSTING
14:01 Notice of new positions or vacancies coming within the scope of this Agreement shall issue from the office of the Company for posting in places accessible to all employees, a copy of which shall immediately be supplied to the Union, and shall set forth the exact title of the job and the rate and range of pay therefore. Postings for new positions shall include a description of the position. All postings will be open for application for seven (7) days. New positions or vacancies shall be filled on the basis of seniority, providing the employee is capable of doing the work required. The name of the employee appointed shall be posted withi'i seven (7) days.
The posting shall be awarded within a further three (3) working days. The successful applicant shall assume the position within a further five (5) working days. The provisions of this section will not apply to tradespersons or apprentices for temporary vacancies.
14:02 Employees shall be entitled to bid for such positions or vacancies by means of written applications in duplicate, one copy of which shall be submitted to the office of the Company and the other to the Union. No applications from employees received later than the posted closing date will be considered. Employees
27
who are absent for any reason, which absence does not constitute a break in service under the terms of this Agreement, shall have the right to bid for such positions preserved, provided that such employees avail themselves to such right within forty-eight (48) hours of their return to work.
14:03 If such an employee does not qualify within the time prescribed, he shall revert to his former position without prejudice and without loss of seniority. Each such employee shall be allowed a minimum trial period of fifteen (15j days to qualify. If during the ensuing fifteen (1 5) days it appears to the Company and the Union that such employee is incapable of qualifying for such position he shall revert to his former position before such time without prejudice and without loss of seniority.
When job postings are being selected, a representative of I.W.A. Canada shall be present.
14:04 If the Company has to go outside the present employees to fill the position, then the name of such person filling the position shall be posted within seven (7) days of being hired.
14:05 Transfers fromjob tojob shall be recognized under the following conditions:
An employee shall have the right to apply his/her
28
seniority to fill a temporary vacancy of one (1) full shift’s duration or more, and will remain on thatjob until: thejob incumbent returns, thejob bid is filled, the employee attains a permanent or temporary bid or the employee is bumped as a result of staff reductions.
Employees whose jobs are shut down will be allowed to exercise their seniority to displace junior employees filling vacant positions.
14:06 In affecting temporary transfers the Employer shall apportion such work on the basis of seniority with the senior employee having the option to take or not take the transfer providing the employee is capable of performing the work required.
14:07 All temporary positions are to be posted for bidding every six (6) months. This time may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the Local Union.
14:08 The Company agrees to notify the Union of all positions outside thejurisdiction of the Agreement as such positions are created or become vacant, and employees shall be given full opportunity to make proper application for such positions and shall be given prior consideration over prospective new employees.
14:09 The provisions of this Article shall apply to the filling of new classifications.
29
ARTICLE 15 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
15:01 Advance Notification - The Company shall notify the Plant Committee not less than six (6) months in advance of its intent to institute substantial changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or permanent lay-off of employees. Permanent plant closure or permanent partial closure shall be regarded as a technological change.
15:02 Severance Pay - Employees discharged or permanently laid off because of technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of seven
(7)	days' at eight (8) hours straight time job rate for each fifty-two (52) weeks of continuous service with the Company. The amount paid under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks pay.
15:03 When technological changes are implemented, every effort will be made by the Company to retrain its employees to satisfactorily perform the new duties required of them.
15:04 An employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of mechanization, technological change or automation will receive the rate of their regular job at the time of the set back, for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months they will be paid an adjusted rate which will be mid-way between the rate of their regular job at the time of the set back and the
30
rate of their new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of their new regular job will apply. However, such employee will have the option of terminating their employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 2 providing they exercise this option within the above referred to six (6) month period.
ARTICLE 16 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
16:01 The Saskatchewan Occupational Health Act shall apply.
16:02 The general duties of the Occupational Health Committee shall be:
1.	To make a thorough inspection not less than once a month of the entire plant or place of employment for the purpose of determining hazardous conditions, to check on unsafe practices and to receive complaints and recommendations with respect to these matters.
2.	To investigate promptly all accidents, any unsafe conditions or practices which may be reported to it.
Such investigations shall include accidents that might have caused injury to a worker whether or not such injury actually occurred.
3.	To hold regular meetings at least once monthly for the discussion of current accidents, their causes, suggested means of prevention, and reports of investigations and inspections.
31
4.	To keep a record of all investigations, inspections, complaints, recommendations, and minutes of meetings. The minutes shall indicate what action has been taken with respect to suggestions or recommendations previously made. If no action has been taken, the reason therefore shall be given. Copies of the minutes shall be sent promptly to the Occupational Health Division.
5.	To investigate fire conditions, examine fire escapes, and all fire fighting appliances.
6.	To inspect lighting arrangements in all places of employment and to report to the Employer all insufficiently lit places, passageways, and other areas of the plant where workers are liable to be injured in the course of their employment.
7.	If in the opinion of the Occupational Health Committee any machine is found to lack adequate safety devices or is in a condition of repair which renders it hazardous to operate, immediate action to remedy the situation must be taken by the Company.
16:03 The Company will permit members of the Occupational Health Committee time from work with no loss of earnings for the purpose of attending Occupational Health Seminars.
16:04 If any employee exercises his/her rights under
32
Section 26 (1) of the Occupational Health and Safety Act of Saskatchewan no other employee shall be requested to perform his/her job function until it has been referred to the Occupational Health Committee and a determination is made.
ARTICLE 17 SAFETY AND HEALTH
17:01 The Company shall install and maintain suitable first aid equipment, sanitary facilities, washrooms and lunchrooms equipped with a refrigerator. The Company shall supply drinking water at all operations.
17:02 If the wearing of any special article of clothing for the safety and health of the employee is deemed advisable, it is agreed that the matter of the provision of such article of clothing shall be made the subject of negotiations between the Company and the Union.
17:03 Employees are required to take good care of any articles of clothing provided them by the Company and such articles of clothing shall be returned to the Company on termination of employment.
17:04 When the following equipment is required to be used by the Company or by the Workers’ Compensation Board, the Company shall:
(a)	Supply new employees with the articles of equipment listed in (c) as required.
33
(b)	Supply employees moving to another job with articles of equipment listed in (c) they require and that they do not have at the time of the move. Ali equipment previously supplied but not required in the new job will be promptly returned to the Company. If not returned, the employee shall be charged at the full cost of the replacement article.
(c)	Supply replacement equipment as required when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair by an employee at no cost to the employee:
(1)	Aprons
(2)	Hard hats and/or liners
(3)	Welding goggles
(4)	Dust protection
(5)	Eye protection
(6)	Ear protection
(7)	Gloves
(8)	Safety toed boots
(9)	Protective rain gear
(10)	Those required to work outdoors in muddy conditions will be provided with rubber boots.
(d)	Prescription Safety Eye Glasses - Where vision correction is required, the Company will supply a pair of prescription safety eye glasses to an employee once every twenty-four (24) months, if prsecription changes, by recommendation of legally qualified opthamologist oi optometrist and upon written documentation within the twenty-four (24)month period, this cost will be paid by
34
the Company.
For an employee who does not require corrective lenses, the Company will reimburse the employee a maximum of fifty dollars once every twenty-four (24) months towards the cost of prescription safety eyeglasses.
17:05 (a) All equipment above except boots shall be returned to the Company upon lay-off or termination. If not returned, the employee shall be charged at the full cost of the replacement article and shall be deducted on the final pay.
(b) All new employees leaving the employment of the Company prior to thirty (30) working days shall be charged for the full cost of the boots provided.
17:06 In the event that an employee at the time of their employment or at the time of renewal of safety toed boots, desire a type of boot other than the standard type, the Company shall contribute to the cost thereof an amount equal to the cost of the standard boots; it being understood that any type of boot chosen by an employee must meet safety requirements and that the employee must submit sales receipt to the Company.
Boot allowance will be increased to reflect current costs ($50.00).
17:07 The Company shall supply partial leather soled boots on depletion of current supplies at each location.
35
ARTICLE 18 FIRST AID
18:01 The Company will pay forthe following premium to designated duty first aid persons:
STANDARD	-Thirty ($.30) cents per hour
ADVANCED	- Fifty-five ($.55) cents per hour
18:02 The first aid persons will be designated in writing by the Company after consulting with the Occupational Health Committee and the Local Union Committee.
18:03 First Aid Courses will be scheduled so that employees will be able to take courses outside of their normal shift hours so as not to lose any normal income.
If first aid course schedules are not set up to allow an employee to take a course outside of normal shift hours, the employee will be allowed to take the course during th employee’s regular shift without loss of regular earnings. However, this will not apply if the Company has attempted to set up a course and due to lack of applications the course has been cancelled.
ARTICLE 19 ACCIDENT COMPENSATION
19:01 Pending receipt of payments from the Workers’ Compensation Board, where an employee is absent due to a compensable injury, an employee shall receive advances of up to 90% of normal earnings less the usual income tax deductions. Such advances shall be recovered from any payments made by the Workers’ Com-
36
pensation Board.
19:02 An employee hurt in an industrial accident shall be paid at their regular straight time job rate for the balance of the shift within which the accident occurred.
ARTICLE 20 TOOLS
20:01 The Company will supply lockup facilities for mechanics’ tools and will replace tools lost in a fire or stolen, due to proven breaking and entry.
20:02 The Company shall replace mechanics privately owned tools, tool boxes, or parts of tools if satisfactory evidence is given that such items were broken while being properly utilized in the performance of assigned work.
20:03 Mechanics’ tools must be listed in the inventory of mechanics’ own tools mutually agreed to by the Maintenance Superintendent and the employee.
20:04 If and when metric tools are required the Company will pay one-half (112) the cost of the metric tools during the metric conversion period. The Company shall have metric tools available on site for temporary use.
ARTICLE 21 ANNUAL VACATIONS
21:01 Every employee who has completed one (1)
year of service with the Company shall be entitled to an
37
annual vacation of three (3) weeks and shall be paid at seven (7%) percent of the employee’s total earnings for the previous year.
21:02 Every employee who has completed nine (9) years of service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) weeks with pay based on nine (9%) percent of the employee’s total earnings in the previous year.
21:03 Every employee who has completed seventeen (17) years of service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) weeks with pay based on eleven (1 1%) percent of the employee’s total earnings in the previous year.
21:04 Every employee who has completed twenty-five (25) years of service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of six (6) weeks with pay based on thirteen (13) percent of the employee’s total earnings in the previous year.
21:05 An employee who leaves the Company’s employ after one (1) year of service and has not received their annual vacation for that year shall be allowed pay in lieu of earned vacation.
21:06 Where a paid holiday falls within an employee’s annual vacation, such employee shall be granted an additional day’s vacation with pay.
38
21:07 Except in instances where it is mutually agreed by the Company and the Union concerned that the operation be shut down for the period of annual vacation, annual vacations shall be taken wherever possible at the time or times most desired by the employees concerned, consistent with production requirements. Employees shall not be required to take annual vacations outside the period May 1 st to October 31 st, unless at their own request. However, one employee only at one time per shift in each yard may take vacation between August 15th and October 20th. Vacation selections for prime time (July/August) must be requested in writing to the employee’s supervisor by May 1st of each year and confirmed by May 10th, No cancellations of these prime time vacations will be allowed after June 1st of each year. Vacation schedules shall be prepared not less than two (2) weeks in advance of the vacation to be taken, and shall be supplied to the Union before copies are made available for general scrutiny.
21:08 Vacation pay shall be paid to an employee upon request any time after May 15th or at the employee’s option prior to commencement of annual vacations.
21:09 Vacations earned each year must be taken. Carryover of one week’s vacation leave shall be allowed as long as this leave is taken in the vacation year outside the prime vacation period.
39
21:10 April 30th of each year shall be used as the holiday pay cut-off date for the purpose of computing holiday pay.
21:11 Time on lay-off shall be reckoned in the determination of entitlement to vacations.
21:12 Where during their vacation an employee is otherwise entitled to disability benefits, or any other approved leave of absence, they shall be entitled to take vacation with pay or the part thereof which has been displaced at another time.
ARTICLE 22 STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
22:01 An employee to qualify for statutory holiday pay must comply with each one of the following three conditions:
(a)	Have been on the payroll one (1) calendar day preceding the holiday.
(b)	Have worked his/her last regularly scheduled work day before, and his/her first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his/her absence is due to illness, compensable occupational injury, or is otherwise authorized by the Company. In case of injury or illness, the Company shall have the right to request a medical certificate.
(c)	Not withstanding (b) above, the employee must
40
have worked one day before and one day after the holiday, both of which must fall within a period of sixty (60) calendar days.
22:02 The following days shall be observed as holidays by all employees without deductions of pay therefore: New Years Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Remembrance Day
Dominion Day	December 24th
First Monday in	Christmas Day (December 25th)
August	Boxing Day (December 26th )
22:03 (a) An employee shall qualify for two (2) personal floating holidays if the employee qualifies under Section 1 of this Article and is working prior to October 1 st of the same calendar year.
(b)	Requests for the personal floating holidays must be submitted in writing seven (7) days in advance and Management will confirm the status of the employee’s request within forty-eight (48) hours.
(c)	Each employee shall be entitled two personal floating holidays during each calendar year subject to the notification provisions described in (b) above and payable at eight (8) hours at the employee’s regular straight time job rate.
(d)
Personal floating holidays not booked by De-
41
cember 15th of each calendar year will be paid out prior to December 3 1st by separate cheque. Effective January 1,2000 personal floating holidays not booked by December 15th of each calendar year will be paid out prior to December 31st by separate direct deposits.
22:04 The observance of the above holidays may be made on other days than the calendar date when so proclaimed by the Provincial or Civic authorities or by mutual agreement.
22:05 All time worked on a holiday as specified in Section 2 of this Article shall be paid at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee’s regular rate in addition to pay for the full holiday at the employee’s regular rate.
22:06 Where a holiday falls on a shift employee’s assigned day of rest and such day of rest does riot fall on a Saturday or Sunday, and they do not work on such a day of rest, such employee shall be granted an additional day off, or pay in lieu thereof. Such day off shall be mutually arranged between the employee and the Company.
22:07 Where a holiday falls on a shift employee’s assigned day of rest and such a day of rest does not fall on a Saturday or Sunday, and the employee works on such a holiday, such employee shall be paid at the rate oftime and one-half (1 1/2) for the holiday worked in
42
addition to any holiday or pay in lieu thereof to which they are entitled.
22:08 Employees absent due to illness shall qualify for pay for any statutory holiday falling within their waiting period for weekly indemnity benefits.
ARTICLE 23 PAYDAYS
23:01 On each pay day the Company shall provide to each employee an itemized statement setting forth the total number of hours worked by the employee concerned during the immediately preceding pay period, the rate of wages applicable to the employee, all deductions made from wages whatsoever, the purpose for which such deductions were made, the total amount actually payable to the employee, and such information as may from time to time be agreed upon by the Parties.
23:02 Each pay period will comprise a two week period beginning and ending at midnight on a Thursday.
23:03 Pay days shall be every second Friday with a one week hold back of pay. Pay cheques shall be given to employees in sealed envelopes, as applicable, until January 1,2000 when all employees will be paid by separate direct deposits.
23:04 On days on which time-sheets are to be signed, the second rest period provided for in Article 25, Section 13 of this Agreement shall be extended by five (5) minute
43
for the purpose of enabling time-sheets to be signed with the minimum of work interruption. Once final time sheel are signed they shall not be changed except with the approval of the parties signing the time sheets.
23:05 Shortages in excess of twenty ($20.00) dollars shall be made up and paid to employees within four (4) days of notification by the employee.
23:06 Retroactive pay as a result of contract negotiations and holiday pay will be paid as applicable on separate cheques or separate direct deposits. Effective January I, 2000 retroactive pay as a result of contract negotiations and holiday pay will be paid out on separate direct deposits.
ARTICLE 24 PENSION PLAN
24:01 Effective October 4, 1986 all employees will become members of the Capital Pension Plan, with the following terms and conditions:
(a)	all existing full-time and all regular part-time emplo; ees will become members of the Plan on October 4, 198( all such new employees hired after the effective date become members on the date of hire;
(b)	Effective April 1, 1999 required employer contribu tions to be 6.0% of the pensionable earnings, and required contributions from employees to be 0.5% of pensionable earnings.
Effective April 1,2000 required employer contributions
44
to be 6.5% of the pensionable earnings, and required contributions from employees to be 1.0% of pensionable earnings.
Effective April 1,2001 required employer contributions to be 7.0% of the pensoinable earnings.
Effective April 1,2002 required employer contributions to be 7.5% of the pensionable earnings.
(c)	Pensionable Service, for vesting purposes, will include all:
service with the Company prior to October 4, 1986; and
|jjj periods of time between becoming eligible and resignation, termination or death, except that continuous lay-off periods exceeding fourteen (14) calendar days will be excluded from pensionable service.
(d)	Pensionable Earnings for which Required Contributions shall be paid into the Plan will include:
{j} all working hours, except excluding overtime, for which the Member receives salary or wages from the Company.
{jjj the earnings which a Member would have received on his/her regular shift had it not been for illness or injury, providing such illness or injury qualifies under the Company’s disability plans;
45
{iii} payments in observance of statutory holidays and for holiday pay.
{iv} periods during which the Member is receiving Workers’ compensation Board disability benefits, to a maximum of two (2) years for any continuous period of such disability; the Required Contributions during such disability will be based on the regular rate of pay at the time of injury and a maximum of 1,500 hours per year.
(e)	Effective April 1, 1999 the minimum pension ben efit will be thirty-five ($35.00) dollars per month per yeai of pensionable service for pensionable service prior to April 1, 1999 and forty ($40.00) dollars per month per year of pensionable service for all pensionable years after April 1, 1999.
A joint union management committee, assisted by a representative from the Capital Pension Plan, will be established immediately following negotiations to develop required changes to the plan provisions associated with the implementation of the minimum amounts specified above.
ARTICLE 25 HOURS OF WORK. DIFFERENTIALS. OVERTIME
25:01 This Article is only for the purpose of establishing hours of work and calculating overtime and shall
46
not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week.
25:02 Hours of Work- The regular hours for all employees shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) per week. For the purpose of Section 3, Sub-section (2) of this Article, a “week” is defined as the period from midnight on Saturday to midnight on the following Saturday.
25:03 Shifts
(1)	The regular shifts for all employees shall start on a Monday and end on a Friday except as shown in (2) below.
(2)	The Company shall have the right to schedule an hours to work schedule for maintenance personnel that will start on a Tuesday and end on a Saturday. In the event that a Tuesday to Saturday Maintenance Schedule is required, the Company will provide to the Union Plant Committee the reasons the Tuesday to Saturday maintenance schedule is required. The Company will schedule Tuesday to Saturday maintenance on a rotation basis, as far as is practical so that the Tuesday to Saturday Maintenance Schedule can be shared by all plant maintenance personnel as equally as possible.
(3)	Fire maintenance in the Hudson Bay Plywood Mill
is a production job but the Company may at its discretion schedulethe position either Monday to Friday orTues-
47
day to Saturday.
25:04 Where the operation requires more than one shift per day, employees other than employees working on overtime will be paid, in addition to other wages payable to the employees, a differential of thirty-three ($.33) cents per hour worked on afternoon shift and thirty-three ($.33) cents per hour on Graveyard Shift. Employees will be paid their regular rate of pay including shift differentia pay for all floating holidays, bereavement leave, and statutory holidays.
25:05 Overtime
(a)	Overtime, except that of an emergency nature, will go to the people working on the job. If they refuse, it will go to plant seniority on shift as long as the person is capable of doing the job.
(b)	Any scheduled overtime for weekends will first be offered to the person actively working on the job and holding the permanent or temporary bid job. If they refuse, it will then go by plant seniority providing the person is capable of doing the job. All persons considered for overtime will be required to have their names on the posted overtime list.
{1} When possible five (5) hours notice shall be given of overtime work.
{2} All time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any
48
one day or forty (40) hours in a week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half. All time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in any one day shall be paid for at the rate of double the regular rate of pay.
{3} Employees shall not be required to suspend work during their regular working hours for the purpose of absorbing overtime.
{4} Any portion of an overtime hour shall be paid at the rate of one hour overtime.
{5) If an employee agrees to work an exchange shift, it shall be considered the employee’s shift and shall be worked by the employee.
{6} The Company will not run without attempting to maintain a full compliment of staff on each shift.
(7) Spreader washers shall receive overtime rates for all work performed on Saturday.
25:06 Work on Scheduled Rest Days
1.	Time and one-half shall be paid for work performed on scheduled rest days. This clause will not apply when a change is made at the request of an employee and agreed to by the supervisor.
2.	Employees shall receive one and one-half regular straight time rates of pay for all hours worked on Sunday.
49
3.	Double straight time rates of pay shall apply for the following:
(a)	Hours worked in excess of twelve (1 2) hours per day when the regular day is eight (8) hours.
(b)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
(c)	For purposes of (3) herein a Statutory Holiday and a Personal Floater shall be considered as a shift worked.
(d)	Item (b) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regular scheduled work day.
25:07 Company Meetings
(a)	Employees will be paid! their regular straight time rate for attending any meeting called by the Company which may occur outside their regular hours of work and at which an employee's attendance is required by the Company.
(b)	Tool box meetings (total crew) and industrial relations meetings (Union Committee) shall be held regular' and the time spent in attending such meetings shall be paid at straight time.
25:08 (1) Any employee who normally is required to report at the commencement of a shift and who so report
50
but who for reasons beyond his/her control does not work shall receive not less than four (4) hours pay at such employee’s regular rate of pay. (Wherever possible the Company will notify the employee not to report.)
(2) When an employee works continuously for more than sixteen (16) hours, lunch periods included, or is called back to work on overtime and is scheduled to work the next day, they will be given a rest period of eight (8) hours. They will not be required to report for work until the end of the eight (8) hours rest period. They will be paid straight time for any time lost from their regular shift as a result of the rest period. Should the employee be called back to work for four (4) hours or less prior to the start of their regular shift, the eight (8) hour rest clause will not apply.
If an employee does not have an eight (8) hour rest period before the commencement of the shift, the employee shall be paid for the shift at overtime rates.
25:09 Overtime Meal - if an employee is required to work more than one hour immediately preceding or following the shift, they will be provided with a hot meal or the option of an allowance of $9,00 plus one-half(l/
2) hour at time and one-half (1 112) times regular straight time rate of pay.
After four (4) hours of overtime the employee shall be entitled to an additional meal allowance or meal as
51
described above.
25:10 An employee who because of an emergency is called out for duty at any time after or before their regula work period, shall be free when the emergency is over, but shall nevertheless be paid a minimum of four (4) hou at overtime rates.
25:11 If for whatever reason other than self-bidding an employee is required to perform work in a job classification other than their bid classification, they shall nevertheless not receive a reduced rate; but if the classificatior is higher paying, they shall receive the higher rate.
25:12 Production employees brought in to perform work during a maintenance shutdown shall receive their job bid rate of pay.
25:13 Every employee shall be granted one fifteen (15) minute rest period in each half shift worked at a tim mutually agreed upon. The employees, however, agree to take this rest period during any changeover in planing operations within half an hour each way of time mutual b agreed upon. Further, where practical, employees shall be relieved for their rest period.
25:14 An employee who is away from work due to sickness shall give reasonable notice of intent to return to work.
52
25:15 The Company will give forty-eight (48) hours notice of intent to change the shift hours. Employees will not be changed from shift to shift except by their consent.
25:16 Alternate Shift Scheduling - Management, Plant Committees and the Local Union shall have the right under the terms of the collective agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules.
The following steps to apply:
{i} Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Management.
{ii} Majority approval by the employees in the proposed variations.
ARTICLE 26 RETIREMENT
26:01 Employees will normally retire at age 65. The Company may grant a maximum extension of one year. The Corporation may grant extensions on an annual basis.
ARTICLE 27 TRAINING - GRADING. SCALING. TRADE QUALIFICATION EXAM
27:0] When an employee attends grading or scaling school at the request of the Company (whether laid off or not) they shall receive wages and expenses from the Company.
27:02 The Company shall pay employees for lost time and costs incurred for one occasion per year for writing trades qualification examinations and the renewal of any journey ticket which is required by the Company.
ARTICLE 28 EDUCATION TRUST FUND
The fund to be structured so as to comply with all requirements of a trust as specified by Revenue Canada.
The Company will contribute to the Education Trust Fund and will continue such contributions throughout the period of the Collective Agreement. The contributions will be one cent ($.01) per hour worked per employee effective October 1, 1999, a further one cent ($.01 per hour worked per employee effective April 1,2000, a further one cent ($.01) per hour worked per employee effective April 1, 2001, a further one cent ($.01) per hour worked per employee effective April 1,2002, a further oi cent ($.01) per hour worked per employee effective April 1,2003.
The Education Trust Fund will be administered by the Local Union to develop and deliver a wide range of programs which may include:
Grievance Handling Environmental Issues Stewards Training Leadership Training Benefits Training Union History
Collective Bargaining Land Use Issues Communication Skills Economic Issues Health and Safety Parliamentary Procedure & Public Speaking
5 4
The contributions will be based on all hours worked and submitted monthly to the Local Union, I.W. A, Canada, Local 1-184.
ARTICLE 29 ELECTRICAL OUTLETS
29:01 The Company shall supply electrical outlets for block heaters for employee’s vehicles in the parking area at no cost to the employee.
ARTICLE 30 NOTICE BOARDS
30:01 The Company agrees to install notice boards for the sole use of the Union in suitable locations easily accessible to the employees for the purpose of posting notices of interest to the Union.
ARTICLE 31 FIRE CREWS
31:01 A fire crew of at least two (2) employees shall be designated in each area of the plant and shall receive the fire fighting premium. Fire fighting crews are to be posted and designated on the basis of seniority.
31:02 The fire fighting premium shall be ten ($.10) cents per hour for all hours worked and shall also be paid for floating holidays, bereavement leave and statutory holidays. Effective April 1,2002 the fire fighting premium will be increased to fifteen ($.15) cents per hour.
55
ARTICLE 32 CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAV
32:01 The principle of equal pay for equal work shall apply regardless of sex. Hours of work, classifications, titles and rates of pay applicable thereto for any new classification or position that may hereafter be established, shall be the subject of negotiations between the Company and the Union, a supplementary agreement to be executed in respect to any such classification or position. The rate of pay negotiated between the Company and the Union shall be retroactive to the date of hiring or date employee was assigned to the new job.
56
32:02
SAWMILL RATE SCHEDULE - CARROT RIVER
	EP	Apr. 1	Apr. 1	Apr. 1	Apr.l	Apr.l
		1999	2000	2001	2002	2003
Group 1		19.09	19.47	19.86	20.26	20.67
Clean-up/S.M.	54					
Group 2		19.18	19.56	19.95	20,35	20.76
Watch Person/Janitor	64					
Clean-up/Graveyard	69					
Group 3		19.25	19.64	20.03	20.43	20.84
Strip Piler/Rough Tally	77					
Strip Layer/Stacker	79					
Resaw Tailer	79					
Group 4		19.34	19.73	20.12	20.52	20.93
Log Deck Chaser	84					
Sorter Chaser/J-Bar/P.M.	90					
Clean-up/Watchman/Planer	90					
Planer Hoist Operator	92					
57
Group 5	19.42 19.81 20.21 20.61 21.02
Paint Sprayer/Bander Helper	104					
Log Bin Sorter/Chaser	110					
Resaw Feeder/P.M. Group 6	111	19.52	19.91	20.31	20.72	21.13
J-Bar Feeder/Trim/P.M.	129					
Elliminator/Chipper Attendant Group 7	140	19.61	20.00	20.40	20.81	21.23
J-Bar Feeder/P.E. Trim/S.M.	142					
Planer Stacker./J-Bar	143					
Bander Wrapper Operator Group 8	151	19.76	20.16	20.56	20.97	21.39
Planer Feeder	170					
Group 9 Clean-up/Pianermiil and Yard	202	19.89	20.29	20.70	21.11	21.53
Stacker Operator/Kiln Loads Group 11	226	20.15	20.55	20.96	21.38	21.81
Forklift Operator/Sawmill	304					
Forklift Operator/Planermill	304					
Group 12
Forklift Operator/Kiln	334
Edger Optimizer	337
Barker Operator 12" & 17"	342
Group 13
Forklift Tallyman/Shipping	371
Kiln Operator	397
Yard Clean-up & General Utility/S.M	405
Group 15
Crane Operator/Cat 235 & Tanguay	498
Group 16
Log Loader/Cat 966 & 966D	543
Group 17
Canter/Edger Operator	589
Group 21
Planer Grader/Optic Scanning	835
20.30	20.71	21.12	21.54	21.97
20.44	20.85	21.27	21.70	22.13
20.76	21.18	21.60	22.03	22.47
20.92	21.34	21.77	22.21	22.65
21.08	21.50	21.93	22.37	22.82
21.77	22.21	22.65	23.11	23.57
59
Not Covered By Evaluation:
Scaler (Permit)
Oiler
Bush Motor Grader Operator
Bush Crawler Tractor Operator (D6, TD15 or Equivalent) Scaler Licensed
Apr.l
1999
19.98
20.58
20.63
20.83
20.83
Apr. 1 2000 20.38 20.99 21,04
21.25
21.25
Apr.l
2001
20,79
21.41
21.46
21.68
21.68
Apr.l
2002
21.21
21.84
21.89
22.11
22.11
Apr.l
2003
21.63
22.28
22.33
22.55
22.55
32:03	TRADES & APPRENTICESHIP RATES
(j) To include the following trades:
(a)	Electricians	(e)	Mechanics
(b)	Carpenters	(f)	Plumber-Pipe Fitters
(c)	Millwrights	(g)	Saw Filers
(d)	Welders	(h)	Planer Operator
(2)
JOURNEY PERSON (With Ticket)	23.74	24.21	24.69	25.18	25.68
JOURNEY PERSON (Without Ticket)					
12 Months	23.35	23.82	24.30	24.79	25.29
8 Months	23.13	23.59	24.06	24.54	25.03
4 Months	22.94	23.40	23.87	24.35	24.84
Start	22.73	23.18	23.64	24.11	24.59
IMPROVER					
12 Months	22.35	22.80	23.26	23.73	24.20
8 Months	22.20	22.64	23.09	23.55	24.02
4 Months	22.04	22.48	22.93	23.39	23.86
Start	21.93	22.37	22.82	23.28	23.75
Aor.l	Aor.l	Apr. 1	Aor.l	Apr. 1
1322	2002	2001	2002	2003
61
HELPER
12 Months	21.53	21,96	22.40	22.85	23.31
8 Months	21.40	21.83	22.27	22.72	23.17
4 Months	21,26	21.69	22.12	22.56	23.01
start	21.14	21.56	21.99	22.43	22.88
PLANER OPERATOR					
12 Months	23.35	23.82	24.30	24.79	25.29
8 Months	23.13	23.59	24.06	24.54	25.03
4 Months	22,94	23,40	23.87	24.35	24.84
Start	22.73	23,18	23.64	24.11	24.59
IMPROVER					
12 Months	22.35	22.80	23.26	23.73	24.20
8 Months	22.20	22.64	23.09	23.55	24.02
4 Months	22.04	22.48	22.93	23.39	23.86
Start (Planer Operator Trainee)	21.93	22.37	22.82	23.28	23.75
The senior apprentice required to cover a shift without a journey person on duty shall receive Journey Person Without Ticket Rate of Pay (at the 12 Month Level)
62
32:U4	rLYVYIMJJU KAIL MilH,UULlL
	E.P.	Apr. 1	Apr. 1	Apr. 1	Apr.l	Apr.l
		1999	2000	2001	2002	2003
Grade 1		19.09	19.47	19.86	20.26	20.67
Janitor Grade 2	79	19.20	19.58	19.97	20.37	20.78
Edge Putty & Sprayer	85					
Blister Watcher	88					
Dry Clipper Offbearer	88					
Dryer Feeder	88					
Clean-up/Press Graveyard	89					
Clean-up/Greenend Graveyard	89					
Watch Person Grade 3	91	19.28	19.67	20.06	20.46	20.87
Clean-up Plant	92					
Dryer Offbearer/Curve	96					
Sander Feeder & Offbearer	97					
Dry Clipper Operator	97					
63
Grade 4		19.38	19.77	20.17	20.57	20.98
Lay up Line Wash Clean-up	103					
Green Chain Offbearer	105					
Strapper/Plywood Grade 5	109	19.51	19.90	20.30	20.71	21.12
Green Chain Stacker Operator	112					
Raimann Patcher/Strip Cutter	114					
Watch Person/Vat Attendant	114					
Dryer Grader Offbearer Grade 6	116	19.61	20.00	20.40	20.81	21.23
Patch Line Patcher Grade 7	126	19.76	20.16	20.56	20.97	21.39
Chipper Operator Grade 8	141	19.89	20.29	20.70	21.11	21.53
Forklift Operator - Finish End	148					
Dryer Grader/Stacker/Attendant	149					
Grade 9		20.00	20.40	20.81	21.23	21.65
Forklift Op/Tally/Car Loader	156					
Stores Clerk	156					
Veneer Composer/4 ft. & 8 ft.	158					
Forklift Operator - Graveyard Grade 10	160	20.14	20.54	20.95	21.37	21.80
Forklift Operator - Block Supply	163					
Sheet Placer	169					
Forklift Op. - Green End & Press	170					
Forklift Op. - Press & Green End Grade 11	170	20.28	20.69	21.10	21.52	21.95
Vat/Konus System Attendant	172					
Barker Operator Grade 12	181	20.40	20.81	21.23	21.65	22.08
Glue Mixer/Quality Control	187					
Log Loader Operator Yard Grade 13	187	20.53	20.94	21.36	21.79	22.23
Dryer Operator	201					
Sizing Unit and Grade Line Op.	201					
65
Grade 14		20.68	21.09	21.51	21.94	22.38
Lay-up Line Operator Spreader Rustler/Quality Control Grade 15	208 210	20.84	21.26	21.69	22.12	22.56
Sander/Tongue & Groove Op. Grade 18	220	21.31	21.74	22.17	22.61	23.06
Hot Press Operator/40 Openings Grade 25	244	22.70	23.15	23.61	24.08	24.56
Lathe Operator Not Covered By Evaluation : Grinder Operator	318	21.45	21.88	22.32	22.77	23.23
Fire Maintenance		23.35	23.82	24.30	24.79	25.29
Scaler		20.83	21.25	21.68	22.11	22.55
32:05 SAWMILL JOB EVALUATION Effective April 1, 1980 the Parties agree to implement the British Columbia Southern Interior Sawmill						
Job Evaluation Program and wage Grade Points Increments I n - f,n Nil	curve as follows. Base	4/1/99	4/1/00	4/1/01	4/1/02	4/1/03
	Nil	19.09	19.47	19.86	20.26	20.67
2 61- 70 $.09	$0 09	19 18	19.56	19.95	20.35	20,76
■> -7t „ #n 107	$0 16	19.25	19.64	20.03	20.43	20.84
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22 23
20 93
21 02
21 13
21 23
21 39
21 53
21 65
21 81
21 97
22 13
22 28
22 47
22 65
22 82
23 00
23 18
23 38
23 57
23 78
23 98
$.09	$0.25	19.34	19 73	20.12
$.08	$0.33	19.42	19 81	20.21
$ 10	$0.43	19.52	1991	20.31
$.09	$0 52	19.61	20 00	20 40
$ 15	$0.67	19.76	20 16	20.56
$.13	$0.80	19.89	20 29	20.70
$.11	$0.91	20.00	20 40	20.81
$.15	$1.06	20.15	20 55	20.96
$.15	$1.21	20.30	20 71	21.12
$ 14	$1.35	20.44	20 85	21.27
$.14	$1.49	20.58	20 99	21.41
$.18	$1.67	20.76	21 18	21.60
$.16	$1.83	20.92	21 34	21.77
$.16	$1.99	21 08	21 50	21.93
$.17	$2 16	21.25	21 68	22.11
$.16	$2.32	21.41	21 84	22.28
$ 19	$2.51	21.60	22 03	22.47
$.17	$2.68	21.77	22 21	22.65
$ 19	$2.87	21.96	22 40	22.85
$.20	$3.07	22.16	22 60	23.05
67
24	971 ■	• 1030	$.19	$3.26	22.35	22.80	23.60	23.73	24.20
25	1031	- 1090	$.38	$3.64	22.73	23.18	23.64	24,11	24.59
26	1091	- 1150	$.39	$4.03	23.12	23.58	24.05	24.53	25.02
27	1151	- 1210	$.46	$4.49	23.58	24.05	24.53	25.02	25.52
Details of the Sawmill Job Evaluation Plan are provided in Supplement No. 2 to this Agreement
32:06	PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
(1)	The implementation of the Plywood Job Evaluation Program will be in accordance with Supplement No. 1 to this Agreement.
(2)	Point Range and Increment - The Plywood Job Evaluation wage increment curve to be as follows:
		Increments	Base	4/1/99	4/1/00	4/1/01	4/2/02	4/1/03
1	0- 81	Nil	Nil	19.09	19.47	19.86	20.26	20.67
2	82- 91	$.11	$0.11	19.20	19.58	19.97	20.37	20.78
3	92-101	$.09	$0.20	19.28	19.67	20.06	20.46	20.87
4	102-111	$.10	$0.30	19.38	19.77	20.17	20.57	20.98
5	112- 121	$.13	$0.43	19.51	19.90	20.30	20.71	21 12
6	122- 131	$.10	$0.53	19.61	20.00	20.40	20.81	21,23
7	132- 141	$.15	$0.68	19.76	20.16	20.56	20,97	21.39
8	142-151	$.13	$0.81	19.89	20.29	20.70	21.11	21.53
9	152- 161	$.11	$0.92	20.00	20.40	20.81	21.23	21 65
10	162-171	$.14	$1.06	20 14	20.54	20.95	21.37	21.80
11	172-181	$.14	$1.20	20.28	20.69	21.10	21.52	21.95
12	182- 191	$.12	$1.32	20.40	20.81	21.23	21.65	22.08
13	192 -201	$.13	$1.45	20.53	20.94	21.36	21.79	22.23
14	202-211	$.15	$1.60	20.68	21.09	21.51	21.94	22.38
15	212-221	$.16	$1.76	20.84	21.26	21.69	22.12	22.56
16	222 - 231	$.14	$1.90	20.98	21.40	21.83	22.27	22.72
17	232-241	$.17	$2.07	21.15	21.57	22.00	22.44	22.89
18	242 - 251	$.16	$2.23	21.31	21.74	22.17	22.61	23.06
19	252 -261	$.17	$2.40	21.48	21.91	22.35	22.80	23.26
20	262- 271	$.18	$2.58	21.66	22,09	22.53	22.98	23.44
21	272 - 281	$.23	$2.81	21.89	22.33	22.78	23.24	23.70
22	282 - 291	$.18	$2.99	22.07	22.51	22.96	23.42	23.89
23	292-301	$.22	$3.21	22.29	22.74	23.19	23.65	24 12
24	302-311	$.21	$3.42	22.50	22.95	23.41	23.88	24.36
25	312-321	$.20	$3.62	22.70	23.15	23.61	24.08	24.56
26	322 -331	$.22	$3.84	22.92	23.38	23.85	24.33	24.82
27	332-341	$.19	$4.03	23.11	23.57	24.04	24.52	25.01
(3) Red Circle Jobs - Incumbents inj ob categories for which the wage rate is reduced as a result of job evaluation (hereinafter referred to as "red circlejobs") shall continue at the original rate.
69
32:07 Premiums:
Grading Certificate Premiums: A Certificate B Certificate
Certificate held but not used
$0.20
$0.15
$0.05
Head Saw Filer
$1.00
Sawfilers and Planer Operators:
These positions to progress to journey person with ticket status after four (4) months as journey person without ticket.
ARTICLE 33 DURATIONS OF AGREEMENT
33:01 The agreements shall be in effect from April I,
1999 to March 31,2002 and April 1,2002 to March 31 2004 and from year to year thereafter unless changed through mutual consent.
33:02 At the end of the agreement expiring March 31, 2004 or in any year to year agreement thereafter, either party may not less than thirty (30) days or greater than sixty (60) days before the expiry date of the agreement give notice to the other party to negotiate revisions to the agreement.
The Party giving notice in accordance with Section 1 of this Article shall at the same time, when such notice is issued, indicate a date on which the said Party suggests that negotiations commence, it being understood and agreed that both Parties shall endeavour to have nego-
tiations commence at the earliest possible date within the sixty (60) day period before the expiry date of the Agreement.
33:03 At the first meeting of the Parties for the commencement of negotiations the Union shall submit to the Company in writing the Union’s proposals in respect to revisions of the Agreement, and the Company shall submit in writing to the Union such proposals as the Company wishes to make to the Union in respect of revisions. it is clearly understood between the Parties that only such items as are submitted in writing by either Party to the other at the first meeting mentioned above shall be subject to negotiations.
71
SUPPLEMENT NO. I PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
1.	Princinles and Procedures
The implementation and administration of the job evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles and procedure set out in a Manual agreed to by Saskfor MacMillan Limited and I.W.A, Canada, Local 1-184, an entitled “Job Evaluation Manual for Operational Hourly Paid Jobs at the Saskfor MacMillan Limited Plywood Plant, Hudson Bay, Saskatchewan” (herein referred to as the “Manual”).
2.	Industry Job Evaluation Committee
There shall be a committee constituted and named the Saskfor MacMillan Limited - I.W.A. Canada Job Evalu ation Committee (herein referred to as the “Plywood Evaluation Committee”) to consist of one member representative of Saskfor MacMillan Limited and one member representative of I.W.A. Canada, Local 1-184.
3.	Function of Plywood Evaluation Committee
(a)	The Plywood Evaluation Committee shall assume general responsibility for the administration of the job evaluation program.
(b)	The unanimous decision of the said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
4.	Plant Job Review Committee
(a) There shall be a committee constituted in each ply-
72
wood plant named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referred to as “Review Committee”) to consist of two members representative of management and two members representative of the employees. At least one representative of Management must be a member of the Plant’s salaried staff or Management, and at least one representative of the employees must be an employee of the plant whose job is subject to Plywood Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed at the plant, and the Union may do likewise except that neither party may choose as its representative a member of the Plywood Evaluation Committee or any person who is employed as a job evaluator by Saskfor MacMillan Limited or by I.W.A, Canada, Local 1-184.
(b) The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly paid employees for time lost while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information regarding their own job, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly-paid employees.
5.	Function of Review Committee
(a)	The Review Committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Plywood Evaluation Committee for further action. The documents required will include a “Request
73
for Job Evaluation” form submitted either by an individual employee or by local Management, and a fully completed Job Description which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of the Plywood Evaluation Committee. The form of the documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them, and the time limits for completion may be amended as required ! the Plywood Evaluation Committee under the authority given them by Article 3 of this supplement.
(b)	Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request for evaluation or reevaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limit, the Review Committee shall, at the request of any one of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on whicji there is unanimous agreement, io the Plywood Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
(c)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job, it shall communicate that decision to the appropriate Review Committee, The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committee that an Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded
74
to the Plywood Evaluation Committee will similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
(d)	Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Plywood Evaluation Committee to determine the facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend any job description or specification submitted to them in support of a Request for Job Evaluation form.
6.	Application of Program
Thejob evaluation program shall apply to all employees employed at the Saskfor MacMillan Limited Plywood Plant at Hudson Bay, Saskatchewan except Journey People, Trades People, Improvers, Helpers and Powerhouse. and Boom Crews.
7.	-Direction of Work
Job Evaluation descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirements of the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restriction on the right of the Company to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that if the assignment of such duties changes thejob content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure set out herein.
8.	Re-evaluation
(a) When a job has moved to another grade as a result
75
of re-evaluation, the wage rate for the new grade shall be effective on the date that Management or employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation.
(b) When ajob is moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of Paragraph 10 herein.
9.	New Jobs Created
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a newjob, a temporary rate shall be set by Management. The permanent rate for the said job as determined by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be effective as of the date the j ob was installed. If the evaluated rate for a new job is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbent(s) shall be allowed to continue at the temporary rate.
10.	Red Circle Jobs
(a)	The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circlejobs, the said list io include the name of the employee, name ofjob category filled, the evaluated rate for thejob arid the actual rate paid.
(b)	Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
76
(c)	Employees holding red circlejobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for the job to which they are assigned, if at a later date an employee is re-assigned to his/her former job he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
(d)	When the Company terminates ajob, or a job is not occupied during a period of one year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicablejob description and classification shall be established.
(e)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company he/she shall retain his/her existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to his/her regular job the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
11.	Seniority
(a)	Subject to the provisions herein set out, Article 11 (Seniority) shall continue to apply.
(b)	Promotions shall be made only where a vacancy exists.
12.	Referral Procedure
(a)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review Committee.
77
(b)	When an employee’s request for re-evaluation results in no change being made in the job grade, or in a reduction, or when a Management request results in no change or in an increase, the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall give to the appropriate Review Committee a short statement of the reasons for the decision. The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficient depth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
(c)	An evaluation done by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the parties but, at any time after five years since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of a job, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of that j ob and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
(d)	If the Plywood Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the job evaluation program which falls within their jurisdiction, the matter shall be referred to Saskfor MacMillan Limited and to the I.W.A. Canada, Local 1-184 for settlement.
(e)	All communication between any Plant Review Committee and the Plywood Evaluation Committee referred
78
above shall be effected by sending one copy to the Union representative or representatives on the committee and one copy to the Employer representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of I. W. A. Canada, Local 1-I84 and Employer representative care of the Company’s offices at the plant. In the case of communications to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, the Union representative will be addressed care ofthe offices ofthe I.W.A. Canada, Local 1-184 and Employer representative care of the head offices of Saskfor MacMillan Limited .
13.	Training Program
A program of training for members ofthe Review Committee in each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by Saskfor MacMillan Limited and the i.W.A, Canada, Local 1-184.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2 SAWMILL JOB EVALUATION PLAN
1.	Principles and Procedures
The implementation and administration of thejob evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles and procedures set out in Manual dated December, 1971 and entitled “Interior Sawmill Indus-
79
try Job Evaluation Manual” as amended July, 1973 and as further amended July, 1974 (herein referred to as the “Manual”).
2.	Industry Job Evaluation Committee There shall be a committee constituted and named the Industry Job Evaluation Committee (herein referred to ai the “Sawmill Evaluation Committee”) to consist of one member representative of Interior Forest Labour Relations Association and one member representative of I.W.A, Canada.
3.	Function of Sawmill Evaluation Committee
(a)	The Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall assume general responsibility for the administration of thejob evaluation program.
(b)	The unanimous decision of the said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
4.	Plant Job Review Committee
(a)	There shall be a committee constituted in each Sawm Plant named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referred to as “Review Committee”) to consist of two members representative of Management and two members representative of the employees. At least one representative of Management must be a member of the Plant’s salaried staff or Management, and at least one representative of the employees must be an employee of the Plant whosej ob is subject to Sawmill Job Evaluation Management may choose their second representative
80
from amongst persons not employed at the Plant, and the Union may do likewise except that effective January 1, 1975 neither party may choose as its representative a member of the Sawmill Evaluation Committee or any person who is employed as a job evaluator by Interior Forest Labour Relations Association or by I.W.A, Canada.
(b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly-paid employees for time lost while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, regarding his/her own job, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly-paid employees.
5.	Function of Review Committee
(a)	The Review Committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee for further action. The documents required will include a “Request for Job Evaluation” form submitted either by an individual employee or by local Management and a fully completed Job Description which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of the Sawmill Evaluation Committee. The form of the Documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them and the time limitsfor completion may be amended as required by the Sawmill Evaluation Committee under the authority
81
given tflem by Article 3 of this supplement.
(b)	Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request for evaluation or reevaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limit, the Review Committee shall at the request of any one of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
(c)	When the Sawmill Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a j ob it shall communicate that decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committee that an Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee will, similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
(d)	Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Sawmill Evaluation Committee to determine the facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend any j ob description on grading sheet submitted
82
to them in support of a Request for Job Evaluation form.
6.	Application of Program
The job evaluation program shall apply to all employees in the sawmill industry except those categories listed below:
Millwright
Machinist
Blacksmith
Welder
Pipe Fitter - Including Sprinkler
Mechanics
Electrician
Painter
Carpenter
Bricklayer
Steam Fitter
Boilermaker
Bench Operator - Millwork Filers, Fitters and Helpers Engineers (Boiler House)
Fire Suppressor (Boiler House)
Grinder Operator Oiler
and improvers and Helpers to the above trades.
7.	Direction of Work
Job evaluation descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirements of the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restric-
83
tion on the right of the Company to create a newj ob or to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that if the assignment of such duties changes thejob content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation, the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure set out herein.
8.	Re-evaluation
(a)	When a job has moved to a higher group as a result of re-evaluation, the resulting rate shall be retroactive from the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation.
(b)	When a job is moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his/her job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of paragraph 10 herein.
9.	New Jobs Created
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a newjob, a temporary rate shall be set by Management.
(a)	When the evaluated rate for a new j ob is higher than the temporary rate, the resulting rate shall be retroactive from the date that thejob was installed.
(b)	When the evaluated rate for a new job is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbent(s) shall continue at the temporary rate.
84
10 Red Circled Jobs
(a)	The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circled jobs, the said list to include the name ofthe employee, name of thejob category filled, the evaluated rate for thejob, and the actual rate paid.
(b)	Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
(c)	Employees holding red circlejobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for thejob to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is re-assigned to their former job they shall regain their red circle rate.
■t;
I _
(d)	When the Company terminates ajob, or ajob is not occupied during a period of one year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicablejob description and classification shall be established.
(e)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company they shall retain their existing rate or receive the rate for the newjob, whichever is higher. On return to their regular job the said employee shall regain their red circle rate.
85
11.	Seniority
Subject to the provisions herein set out, Article 11 (Seniority) of this Agreement shall continue to apply.
12.	Referral Procedure
(a)	When the Sawmill Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Jot Review Committee.
(b)	When an employee’s request for re-evaluation results in no change being made in thejob grade, or in a reduction, or when a Management request results in no change or in an increase, the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall give to the appropriate Review Committee a short statement of the reasons for the decision. The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficient depth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
(c)	An evaluation done by the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the parties but. at any time after five years since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of ajob, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
(d)	If the Sawmill Evaluation Committee is unable to
86
reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the job evaluation program which falls within their jurisdiction, the matter shall be referred to the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association and to I.W.A. Canada for settlement.
(e)	All communication between any Plant Review Committee and the Sawmill Evaluation Committee referred to above shall be effected by sending one copy to the Union representative or representatives on the committee and one copy to the Employer representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of the appropriate Union Local and the employer representative care of the Company’s offices at the Plant. In the case of communications to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee, the Union representative will be addressed care of the offices of the I.W.A. Canada, and the Employer representative care of the offices of Interior Forest Labour Relations Association.
13.	Training Program
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by Interior Forest Labour Relations Association and the I.W.A. Canada.
87
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3 GROUP INSURANCE BENEFITS
:01
(a)	All employees that become insured under this plan shall continue to carry their policy as a condition of their employment. All new employees entering the service of the Company after the effective date of this Agreement and as soon as eligible, shall apply for and continue their policy under this plan as a condition of their employment.
(b)	All group insurance benefits shown herein are to be paid one hundred percent (1 00%) by the Company.
(c)	The Company will not cover any part of the following that is covered by current or future Provincial and/or Federal Government health programs.
(d)	If in any of the following sections in this Article, legislation is passed preventing insurance carriers from underwriting the coverage, then the Company will not be responsible for providing employees with this coverage.
(e)	Normal weekly earnings is defined as an employee’s regular straight time hourly rate times forty (40) hours. Normal annual earnings is defined as an employee’s regular straight time rate times two thousand and eighty (2,080) hours.
88
:02 Life Insurance
The life insurance coverage for each employee is Sixty Thousand ($60,000.00) Dollars and insures only the life of the employee.
.03 Accidental Death and Dismemberment
The accidental death and dismemberment insurance coverage for each employee is Sixty Thousand ($60,000.00) dollars and insures only the employee.
:04 Weekly Indemnity
(a)	Disability Period - The plan will provide for a 52-week period of disability with benefits to commence the first day of non-compensable accident, first day of hospitalization and on the fourth day of sickness.
(b)	Coverage -the plan will provide for benefits of seventy (70%) percent of normal weekly earnings.
The employer will provide supplementary coverage to the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Such coverage will provide for benefits to be payable during such time as a claim with the Workers’ Compensation Board may be under appeal.
Should such an appeal to the Workers’ compensation Board prove successful, payments from the Workers’ Compensation Board will be used to reimburse the Weekly Indemnity Plan for the interim coverage.
-.05 Long-Term Disability
(a) Effective April 1, 1999 the Company will provide a
89
suitable long-term disability program based on seventy (70%) percent of an employee’s normal annual earnings from the date of expiration of Weekly Indemnity Coverage for employees who are disabled from performing their own occupation for up to two (2)years. The Plan insures only the employee.
(b) Effective April 1, 1999 the Company will provide a suitable long-term disability program based on seventy (70%) percent of an employee’s normal annual earnings from the date of expiration of LTD coverage in (a) above for employees who are disabled from performing any occupation to age sixty-five (65). The Plan insures only the employee.
:06 Abnormal Hospitalization
The Company will pay the full costs of the following coverage with no deductible limitations:
(a)	Full cost of semi-private accommodation in an accredited hospital.
(b)	Up to Five ($5.00)Dollars per day to a maximum of one hundred and eighty (180) days while confined in a registered nursing home or accredited convalescent hospital in any one year.
(c)	Hospitalization outside Canada including semiprivate accommodation and other hospital expenses. There is no daily maximum and the plan pays for ninety
90
(90%) percent of these incurred expenses.
:07 Major Medical
Note: There is a Fifteen ($15.00) Dollar deductible per year per employee. The maximum payable by the insurance carrier under this section is Fifteen Thousand ($1 5,000.00) dollars per employee in any three
(3)	year period.
(a) 100% Coverage
(1)	Prescription drugs.
(2)	Professional ambulance service.
(3)	Diagnostic services not covered under Saskatchewan Medicare.
(4)	Medical appliances such as artificial limbs, wheelchairs, etc.
(5)	Charges for treatment by a licensed chiropractor, naturopath, pediatrist, physiotherapist, massage therapist (licensed in Saskatchewan) or occupational therapist (licensed in Saskatchewan). This benefit is limited to $200 per person or $750 per family, per calendar year for each of the above specialties. X-rays ordered by these practitioners will not be covered by the Plan. Payments will be based on a fee schedule established by the carrier.
(b) 80% Coverage
(1)	Services of a registered nurse.
(2)	Hearing aids to a maximum of Four Hundred and Fifty ($450.00) Dollars per family per year.
91
(3)	Private room up to Ten ($10.00) Dollars p day additional if recommended by a licensed physician or surgeon.
:08 Vision Care for Employees and Dependants
Vision care expenses for the following supplies recommended by a legally qualified opthamologist or optometrist every twenty-four (24) months per person (12 months for individuals under 18 years of age).
In cases where special circumstances arise due to eye disease or illness, the Company may waive the twenty-four (24) month restriction subject to medical approval.
1.	one set of single vision, bifocal or trifocal lenses (othe than contact lenses).
2.	frames required to accommodate lenses but any charge in excess of One Hundred ($100.00) Dollars will be disregarded and after April 1,2003 any charges in excess of One Hundred and Twenty-five ($125.00) Dollars will disregarded.
3.	one set of contact lenses. However, only one (1) set of lenses and/or frames or one (1) set of contact lenses will be allowed in any twenty-four (24) month period (12 months for individuals under 18 years of age).
No benefits are payable for:
I.	replacement of lost, stolen or broken lenses or frames
92
(when it occurs within twenty-four (24) months [twelve (12) months if under the age of 18] from the date of purchase of the previous pair of glasses).
2.	duplicate or spare eyeglasses.
3.	sunglasses or tinted glasses with a tint other than number one.
4.	anti-reflective coatings.
:09Dental
Payment of Benefits
Covered dental expenses are the reasonable charges which an employee is required to pay for the following services and supplies received by covered family members for the necessary treatment of any non-occupational injury or disease. However, any charges in excess of the amount specified for such services and supplies in the Dental Association Schedule of Fees in your Province of residence will be disregarded. If alternate services may be performed for the treatment of a dental condition, the amount included as covered dental expenses shall not exceed the amount specified in such schedule for the least expensive service or supply, which, as determined by the insurance company, will produce a professionally adequate result. Reimbursement of covered expenses will be made in accordance with the current Dental Tariff in force in your Province of residence at the time the expense is incurred.
93
Covered Expenses
The following expenses number I to VII are reimbursec eighty (80%) percent. Expenses VIII and IX are reimbursed at fifty (50%) percent. No deductible is required under the Dental Care Plan.
I	DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES
All necessary procedures to assist the dentist in evaluating the existing conditions to determine the required dental treatment, including:
Oral examinations Consultations
X-rays (complete mouth x-rays will be covered only once in a three (3) year period)
II	PREVENTATIVE SERVICES
All necessary procedures to prevent the occurrence of oral disease, including:
Cleaning and scaling Topical application of fluoride Space maintainers
III	SURGICAL SERVICES
All necessary procedures for extractions and other surgical procedures normally performed by a dentist.
IV	RESTORATIVE SERVICES
All necessary procedures for filling teeth with amalgam synthetic porcelain, and stainless steel crowns.
Gold inlays or onlays will be provided as a filling materi
94
only when teeth, in the professional opinion of a dentist, cannot be restored with any of the above materials. Gold foil will be provided only in cases of repair to pre-existing gold restorations.
V	PROSTHETIC REPAIRS
All necessary procedures required to repair or reline fixed or removable appliances.
VI	ENDODONTICS
Ali necessary procedures required for pulpal therapy and root canai filling.
VII	PERIODONTICS
Ail necessary procedures for the treatment of tissues supporting the teeth.
VIII	PROSTHETIC APPLIANCES AND CROWNS AND BRIDGE PROCEDURES
(a)	Crowns and bridges
(b)	Partial and/or complete dentures, but not more than one in five (5) years. This work may be done by a dentist or a qualified certified denturist.
IX	ORTHODONTICS (for dependent children up to their 19th birthday)
The service of a certified orthodontist registered as such by the Provincial College of Dental Surgeons only after the patient has been covered continuously for
95
twelve (12) months. Appliances lost, broken or stolen will not be replaced.
Lifetime maximum is Three Thousand ($3,000.00)Dol per person for all services provided by an Orthodontist.
EXCLUDED SERVICES :
(a)	Cosmetic dentistry.
(b)	Treatment covered by Workers’ Compensation Board or publicly supported plans.
(c)	Charges for services commencing prior to date of coverage.
(d)	Charges for completing forms.
EMERGENCY TREATMENT
Emergency dental care will be provided anywhere in th world. If while you are travelling or on vacation outside your Province of residence, you require dental care as a result of an emergency, you are entitled to service of a duly qualified dentist in the event of such emergency, and will be reimbursed up to the amount that the Plan would have paid had the services been rendered in you/ Province of residence.
;10 Duration of Coverage and Coverage During Layoff
Insurance coverage for an employee shall terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
(a)	On the date on which an employee suffers a loss entitling the employee to payment of the full principal
96
sum.
(b)	On the date and time an employee leaves or is dismissed from employment or is retired or pensioned.
(c)	On the first day of the month coincident with or next following an employee’s 70th birthday.
(d)	In the event of layoff subject to recall, an employee with more than one year service shall be covered for the month layoff occurs plus three months; an employee with less than one year service shall be covered for the month layoff occurs plus one month; an employee hired as temporary staff shall receive coverage for the month layoff occurs only.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 4 CLERICAL
ICLE 33C -_______TION RY PERIOD
Clerical employees entering the service of the Employer shall be subject to a probationary period of three (3) months.
ARTICLE 34C - PERMANENCY
(1)	On completion of the three (3) months’ probationary period referred to in Article 33C, an employee shall be regarded as a permanent employee.
(2)	When, and if, it becomes necessary to dispense with
97
the service of a permanent employee other than an employee dismissed for a major misdemeanour, the Employer shall give one (1) month’s notice in writing to such employee, provided that a sum equal to one (1) month’s wages may be paid to such employee in lieu of notice. In cases where the conduct of a permanent employee is considered by the Employer to warrant dismissal, such employee shall nevertheless not be dismissed except by agreement with the Union; but shal be suspended until the matter has been investigated by the Union and an agreement or settlement reached between the Employer and the Union as to thejustifica-tion or otherwise of the charges against the employee. A the expiration of seven (7) days the suspension, if not withdrawn, shall be considered a notice of dismissal retroactive to the date of suspension. Notice of grievance, if any, must be lodged within the suspension period.
ARTICLE 35C - SICK LEAVE
(1)	When a statutory holiday falls within a period of absence which is due to sickness, the employee shall be paid for such holiday. Employees absent due to sickness shall be reimbursed for their normal loss of normal earnings by the Company for the first three (3) days. Weekly indemnity benefit will start on the fourth (4) day of a disability due to sickness and is payable up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks. Coverage is nonoccupational.
98
(2)	Every employee who may be absent from duty on account of sickness shall notify their immediate supervisor at once, and no employee shall be entitled to benefits for time previous to such notification unless delay shall be shown to have been unavoidable and satisfactory evidence of disability is furnished.
(3)	Before payment is made under sick leave benefits,
the Employer may require a medical certificate or a written statement from the employee, and in cases of lengthy illness the Employer shall call for a physician’s report from time to time as they deem necessary.
(4)	For the purpose of this Article, sickness shall include injury not covered by Workers’ Compensation benefits.
ARTICLE 36C - MISCELLANEOUS
(1)	The Employer agrees to practice the principle of equal opportunity and equal pay for equal work, regardless of the sex of the employee.
(2)	Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, any employee other than an employee on a probationary basis now receiving a higher rate of pay than is called for under wage rates herein shall not have such rate within their classification reduced during the term of this Agreement.
(3)	Accrued time credits towards periodic increases shall not be affected by salary adjustments made on the
99
effective date of this Agreement.
(4)	In the event of any provision of this Agreement or of any collective agreement concluded in pursuance hereof, or any of the practices established hereby being, or held to be contrary to the provisions of any applicable law now or hereafter enacted, neither this Agreement nor any such collective agreement shall be deemed to be abrogated, but shall be amended so as to make them conform to the requirements of such law.
(5)	Any employee taking educational training that is to the Company’s advantage shall have the course paid foi by the Company. The Company will decide if the educational training is of sufficient benefit to justify the costs involved.
(6)	The Company shall supply electrical outlets for employees’ vehicles at no cost to the employees. The Company will continue to provide parking space at no cost for employees as long as it is able.
ARTICLE 37C - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
(1) The basic hours of work for office employees shall be thirty-five (35) hours per week as follows:
Monday through Friday 8:30 a.m. to 12:00 noon, 1:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
100
Start and stop times may be varied at each office location as long as the hours worked average thirty-five (35) hours per week over a two week period.
(2)	A fifteen (1 5) minute rest period shall be allowed to all office employees in the morning and afternoon of each day.
(3)	When a clerical employee is required by their supervisors to work in excess of their regular hours in any one day, such employee shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (I 1/2) their regular rate for the first two (2) hours so worked and double their regular rate thereafter.
(4)	When employees are on vacation the Company will make every reasonable attempt to have a majority of the work load on their desk covered.
(5)	Employees shall be advised by 12 noon if overtime is required. If, after 12 noon, overtime is deemed necessary, overtime work will be voluntary to the employee.
ARTICLE 38C - MATERNITY LEAVE
Employees shall be entitled to maternity leave and shall be able to return to their j ob held at the time their leave commenced. Employees shall be entitled to maternity leave with pay if they should have to apply before the U.I.C. maternity leave entitlement. The employee shall receive Weekly Indemnity coverage up to the time she
101
is entitled to the U.l.C. benefits. The same shall apply after the U.l.C. benefit expires. This clause is intended t cover unusual complications and does not provide for morning sickness.
ARTICLE 39C - LIFE INSURANCE CLERICAL Group Life
The Group Life Insurance coverage insures only the life of the employee.
The Group Life Insurance coverage is twice the employ ee’s annual salary with a minimum coverage of Sixty Thousand ($60,000.00) Dollars.
ARTICLE 40C - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
40:01
In case of pressing emergency, special leave of absence with pay may be granted. Pressing emergency is defined as the serious illness, death or accident to a member of the immediate family which includes: wife, husband, children, brother, sister, mother, father, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmothc grandfather, spouse’s grandmother, spouse’s grandfather, step-parents, grandchildren, legal guardian and ward of an employee. Such leave may be granted for oth pressing emergencies to an extent considered to be fair and reasonable.
40:02
The Company may grant leave of absence without pay
I02
to employees for extended vacation purposes subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Two (2) weeks additional vacation with a possible extension upon mutual agreement.
(b)	Maximum of two (2) employees per year from any one location. Maximum of one (1) employee at location with three (3) or less clerical union employees on staff.
(c)	Each employee a maximum of one (1) extended vacation in a three (3) year period.
40:03
Leave of absence will be granted with pay for educational up-grading to an employee who has at least one (1) year’s service and the employee’s educational training is advantageous to the Company. The Company shall decide if the educational training is of sufficient benefit to justify the costs involved. The Company will pay the cost of the training course.
ARTICLE 41C - FILLING VACANCIES CLERICAL
41:01
Recruitment to employment with the Employer shall be made according to their competency, to be ascertained with the methods of selection as may seem just and reasonable. All permanent job postings will be posted company wide before the hiring is done.
103
41:02
A new employee who has had previous experience shall be entitled to receive credit for such experience by a placement at a wage rate commensurate with such experience, provided full details of, and reasons for, such action is given to the Union not later than the effective date of such action. if, at any time during the probationary period of such employee, the Employer or the Union wishes to review such salary placement wi the object of adjustment, the matter shall be subject to negotiation and agreement between the Employer and the Union.
41:03
When filling a new position or vacancy, the employer may require the employee to take additional training to fully qualify for the new position. This training will be agreed by the employer, the employee and the Union prior to the filling of the position. The cost of such training is to be paid by the Employer. If the employee does not complete the training as agreed in the specifier time, this will provide the Employer with just cause to have the employee return to the former position.
41:04
An employee upon appointment to a posted position shall be allowed a period of three (3) months in which t prove capable of filling such position. if an employee does not qualify within such time, the employee shall
104
revert to the former position without loss of seniority, provided that if before the expiration of the prescribed period it appears to the Employer and to the Union that such employee is incapable of qualifying for such position, the employee may be immediately required to revert to the employee’s former position.
41:05
An employee who is the successful applicant for a posted position and has had the previous experience in the duties required for the new position, shall be entitled to receive credit for such experience by a placement in the wage range commensurate with the said experience.
41:06
Upon promotion to a position in a higher wage group
an employee shall receive a salary adjustment at least equivalent to a full increment higher in the existing scale or the next one in the new scale higher but certainly not lower e.g. Group IV 18 months awarded a Group VI will receive Group VI - 9 months rate.
ARTICLE 42C - VACATIONS
(1)	An employee who has completed one (1) year of continuous service with the Company shall be entitled
to an annual vacation of three (3) weeks and shall receive their regular rate of pay or seven (7) percent, whichever is greater.
(2)	An employee who has completed nine (9) years of
105
continuous service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) weeks and shall receive their regular rate of pay or nine (9) percent, whichever is greater.
(3)	An employee who has completed seventeen (17) years of continuous service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) weeks and shall receive their regular rate of pay or eleven (11) percent, whichever is greater.
(4)	An employee who has completed twenty-five (25) years of continuous service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of six (6) weeks and shal receive their regular rate of pay or thirteen (13) percent whichever is greater.
(5)	Employees who on June 30 of any one year have be continuously employed for a period of less than one ye shall be entitled to a vacation with pay in proportion to the number of months and days of service computed to the nearest hour.
(6)	Employees who leave the service of the Employer before the end of the vacation year without having taken their vacation for that year shall receive a pro rat; payment on the basis of the number of days of service subsequent to June 30 of the previous year computed to the nearest hour.
I06
(7)	Employees who leave the service of the Employer after thirty (30) days shall be entitled to vacation with pay at the rate of one and one-quarter (1 1/4) working days per month of employment or major portion thereof.
(8)	Where a holiday falls within an employee’s annual vacation, such employee shall be allowed one (1) additional day’s vacation or pay at the regular rate in lieu of such additional day.
(9)	Annual vacations shall be regulated by a mutually agreed upon rotation plan to ensure equality for all employees regardless of seniority.
(10)	Every effort shall be made to permit the taking of vacations between May 30 and October 31 of each year. If an employee intends to take vacation during this period, the employee must advise the Company in writing prior to May 1st as to the period of vacation desired. The employer agrees to post the final vacation list by June 1st.
(I 1) All annual vacations accrued by June 30 of any year shall be taken by June 30 of the succeeding year. An employee by so indicating in writing by May 1st of any year that he wishes to take two weeks only of his accrued holidays during the current vacation period has the right to have not more than five (5) working days accumulated and held over to the following year, when four (4) consecutive weeks may be taken at a time mutually
107
agreed upon between the Employer and the Employee, provided that this privilege shall be limited to two employees in any one year.
(12) An employee shall have the option of taking vacation in one continuous period or breaking vacation down to periods of shorter time.
108
CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
GrouD		Level	T&DI Prem.	Apr. 1 1999	Apr. 1 2000	Apr. 1 2001	Apr. 1 2002	Apr.l 2003
1	Start	C		16.33	16.66	16.99	17.33	17,68
	6 Months	B		16.66	16.99	17.33	17.68	18.03
	12 Months	A		16.98	17.32	17.67	18.02	18.38
2	Start	D		16.98	17.32	17.67	18.02	18.38
	6 Months	C		17.28	17.63	17.98	18.34	18.71
	12 Months	B		17.56	17.91	18,27	18.64	19.00
	18 Months	A		17.88	18.24	18.60	18.97	19.35
3	Start	D	.40	17.88	18.24	18.60	18.97	19.35
	9 Months	C		18.11	18.47	18.84	19,22	19.60
	18 Months	B		18.35	18.72	19.09	19.47	19.86
	24 Months	A		18.61	18.98	19.36	19.75	20.15
4	Start	D	.46	18.61	18.98	19.36	19.75	20.15
	9 Months	C		19.00	19.38	19.77	20.17	20.57
	18 Months	B		19.41	19.80	20.20	20.60	21.00
	24 Months	A		19.82	20.22	20.62	21.03	21.45
109
			T&D1
Group		I evel	Prem
5	Start	D	.52
	9 Months	C	
	18 Months	B	
	24 Months	A	
6	Start	D	.58
	9 Months	C	
	18 Months	B	
	24 Months	A	
7	Start	D	.58
	9 Months	C	
	18 Months	B	
	24 Months	A	
Apr.l	Apr.l	Apr.l	Apr.l	Apr.l
1999	2000	2001	2002	2003
19.82	20.22	20.62	21.03	21.45
20.00	20.40	20.81	21.23	21.65
20.20	20.60	21.01	21.43	21.86
20.41	20.82	21.24	21.66	22.09
20.41	20.82	21.24	21.66	22.09
20.52	20.93	21.35	21.78	22.22
20.64	21.05	21.47	21.90	22.34
20.78	21.20	21.62	22.05	22.49
20.78	21.20	21.62	22.05	22.49
21.00	21.42	21.85	22.29	22.74
21.23	21.65	22.08	22.52	22.97
21.48	21.92	22.35	22.80	23.26
Training and Development Incentive Premiums The parties hereby agree to the establishment of hourly pay premiums for employees who are reasonably competent, or become reasonably competent to perform other clerical classifications:
In order to qualify for such premiums, an employee must:
(a)	in order of seniority, be given, or have been given the opportunity to train and develop for a position providing the highest premium available to them. Such training will be conducted as time and circumstance permits.
(b)	Receive the premium applicable for the highest classification incentive for which they are, or become reasonably competent to perform. it is expected that an employee shall qualify for an incentive premium within three (3) months of starting training. Where it is determined, prior to the completion of three (3) months, that an employee requires additional time to demonstrate competency, an extension of the training period may be agreed to by the Company and the Union. Where there is no agreement or where it is determined that an employee will not be able to demonstrate competency, the employee will be returned to their former job duties at their former rate of pay.
(c)	When qualified and receiving a premium, agree to relieve and perform to reasonable satisfaction those jobs within the classification for which the premium is being
paid. Training and Development Incentive Premiums v be paid for all hours worked in their own classification when competence level is attained as per 3(b)
It is expected that an employee will move from step to; within the time frames set out in the Collective Agreement. Where an employee, however, has not been able to demonstrate the competency levels established due to prolonged absences from work, additional time, approximating the length of the prolonged absences, may be required to move to the next step.
112
Signed this____Day of
On behalf ofSaskfor MacMi II an Limited J. Robillard D. Argue R. Smith L. Pelletier G, Russell G. McCaffery
A.	Borsa G, Scott
1999
On behalf of I. W. A. Canada. Local 1-184: N. Menard D. Bonville G. Low
R.	Schmidt
S.	Leffler G. Minty
A.	Lindberg
B.	Kocay
C.	Hallen
113
The following letters of understanding apply to Saw and Planermill Division in Carrot River and the Pi; wood Division in Hudson Bay:
Letter of Understanding No. 1
Re: Start-up Mondays - Sawmill/Planer Operations For any start up preparations, the designated maintenance person(s) will be paid applicable overtime for ar time worked on a Sunday before 12:01 a.m. Monday
Date: May IB, 1999
Letter of Understanding No. 2
Re: Medical Travel Allowance This benefit will be administered by the Company. This benefit is intended to provide a medical travel allowance for necessary medical travel from remote ar when regular employees or their dependents (as define in the plan text for the Group Insurance Benefits Progr are referred by their attending physicians to medical specialists in Saskatchewan where the necessary travel is in excess of 500 km on a round trip basis from the patient's residence. The medical travel allowance will be paid for travel for appointments at medical speciali located in Prince Albert.
Effective Date - This benefit is effective October 1, 19 and will remain in effect until March 31, 2004.
114
Maximum Allowance - The maximum allowance payable n behalf of any regular employee and his or her eligible ependents is a total of $600 per family over the durations f the April 1, 1999 to March 31,2002 and April 1,2002 3 March 31,2004 Agreements, i.e. A total of $600 per amily over the 5 year period.
expenses Covered- Eligible expenses include the follow-
ng:
hotel accommodation (see condition 3 below) travel by private automobile at $.30 per kilometer
Some Conditions That Apply to Medical Travel Allow-
1)
*)
5)
All medical referrals must be in writing on the approved form (to be developed).
For reimbursement under this provision, medical travel must take place within two months of the physician's referral unless the earliest possible date of availability of the specialist is beyond two months from the date of the referral.
Entitlement to hotel expenses will be based on the reasonableness of the employee or dependent being unable to return home on the day of the referral.
Accommodation costs incurred at public facilities such as Ronald MacDonald House, etcetera will be eligible for reimbursement under "hotel accommodation".
Reimbursement for hotel accommodation will be
)
based on the cost of reasonably priced hotels ai motels in the area of the Specialist's appointme The Company will provide a list of acceptable accommodation facilities for the Regina and Saskatoon areas.
Where the patient stays at the private home of family or friends during the medical travel trip, accommodation allowance is payable; however the patient will be entitled to the 30 cents/kilon private automobile travel rate for the distance between the private home and the location of ti Specialist.
7)	Medical specialists are doctors or surgeons wh< are Doctors of Medicine (M.D.) duly licensed t practice medicine in Canada and who are recog nized by the College of Physicians and Surgeoi in Saskatchewan and who also hold aSpecialisi degree. Chiropractors, Naturopaths, Physiotherapists, Podiatrists, Massage Therapists, Oc cupationai Therapists, Dentists, and Orthodontists are not Medical Specialists for the purpose this travel allowance.
8)	A claim form including the original medical ref ral together with the original receipts must be fi by the employee within 90 days of the date eligible expenses are incurred.
9)	Expenses which are payable under the Workers' Compensation Act, the Saskatchewan Health Services Plan, Saskatchewan Government Insur ance or any other government agency or insur-
116
ance plan will be eligible for reimbursement from this plan.
qj The 500 km round trip minimum is to be interpreted as land or surface distance from the patient's residence to the Specialist's office.
)ated May 18, 1999
The following Letters of Understanding apply to the ’lywood Division, Hudson Bay:
Letter of Understanding No. 3
\t a regular monthly union meeting (April 5, 1998) a notion was made, voted on and passed that anyone who las specific cleanup duties in his/her job discription will 3e allowed first opportunity at overtime. Then it will go ;o plant seniority.
Dated July 20, 1998
Letter of Understanding No. 4
Letter of agreement on procedure to follow when training is required for in-scope positions (bids).
The actively working incumbent will be given the option to train the "awarded bid holder." If the "incumbent" opts to train the awarded bid holder, they will remain as the job incumbent until training is completed.
Example: Watcherperson opts to train, will remain on watchperson shift schedule until training is complete or
I17
the awarded bid holder refuses bid.
If incumbent does not opt to train, they would return t< previously held permanent bid or make bump within 4 hours. Training would then go to the seniority qualifit employee on shift.
Dated February 5, 1999
Letter of Understanding No. 5
Stores
1.	During normal operating hours all issues from stores will be done by stores personnel.
2.	Not withstanding the above, on scheduled ovetime shifts where more than five employees are working, all issues from stores will be done stores personnel.
3.	At any time other than the above, stores issues will be done by the watch person on shift only.
Dated January 30, 1996
Letter of Understanding No. 6
When employees are coming in on overtime hours to train forjob procedures, they must sign the overtime lis Their names will be highlighted and the word trainee w be marked in beside their names.
Dated May 23, 1995
118
Letter of Understanding No. 7
Re: Employees' Names on Overtime List Employees who are away at the beginning of the week for legitimate reasons then return to actively working on theirjobs on Friday will be eligible for overtime on their jobs (only) without their names on the overtime lists. All others who are working all week must put their names on the overtime lists.
Dated May 24, 1995
Letter of Understanding No. 8
Re: Week-end Overtime - Article 25:05 (b) Scheduled overtime will first go to employee actively working on the job on Friday. If all shifts are running the day of overtime, employees will receive overtime on the shift they work on. They would only qualify for a different shift if that employee refused overtime. Then seniority of employees actively doing thejob would be employed before going plant seniority.
If only one or two shifts run (not all shifts), seniority of employees actively doing thejob on Friday will apply. Senior employee will receive first choice, second senior employee will receive second choice, etc. Plant seniority will only apply if not enough employees actively doing thejob apply.
To qualify for any ofthe above, employees must have name on overtime list. Only exceptions being stated on procedural agreement dated May 24, 1995, re: employees
I 19
names on overtime list.
Dated August 10, 1995
Letter of Understanding No. 9
For overtime purposes on week-ends for employees whose regular work week runs Monday through Friday
a)	new work week starts Monday
b)	holidays start on Mondays
c)	shift change does not start until Monday 12:01 a.m.
d)	new bid holders will not be recognized until Monday
e)	if Stat holiday Monday, work week starts Tuesday 12:01 a.m.
The above will be adhered to and applied consistently both Union and Management until the signing of a nev contract.
Dated September 25, 1994
Letter of Understanding No. 10
Re: Start-up Mondays
For anyjob i.e. dryer operators (I), dryer feeders (2), millwrights (2), electrician (1), Konus (1) (summer onl stores (1) to come in up to and including two hours bel midnight to do start up preparation for Monday, graveyard shift, the bid holder, or if there is a vacancy, the sneior capable person on shift will be the person who i rewarded the job.
Dated February 26, 1995
I20
Letter of Understanding No. 11
Employee trading positions on any work day Monday through Friday must work on their own jobs for one (1) hour at the start of their shift arid return to work on their ownjob the last one (1) hour oftheir shift.
Dated May 23, 1995
Letter of Understanding No. 12
Workplace Harassment Statement The Union and Employer are committed to providing a work environment in which all individuals are treated with respect and dignity. Each individual has the right to work in an environment which promotes equal opportunities and prohibits discriminatory practices.
Workplace harassment is offensive, degrading and threatening. The Union and the Employer agree that workplace harassment will not be tolerated. The Union and the Employer encourage reporting of all incidents of workplace harassment, regardless of who the offender may be. Individuals, regardless of their position within the organization, found to have engaged in conduct constituting workplace harassment, may be severely disciplined.
Retaliation against an individual because he or she has made a complaint of harassment or against an individual who has provided information will be considered a form of harassment.
Union Responsibilities:
In cases of workplace harassment involving members of
121
the Union, the Union is responsible for:
(a)	discouraging and prevent workplace harassment whether or not complaints of workplace harassment have been brought to the attention of the employer;
(b)	providing advice and support to members of the union who are subjected to workplace harassment;
(c)	doing all in its power to support and assist any member of the union who complains ofworkplai harassment;
(d)	formally acknowledging to a person who has been found to have been subjected to workplace harassment that workplace harassment has taken place;
(e)	making all members of the union aware of the problem of workplace harassment;
(f)	fairly representing the interests of any member o the union who may be alleged to have committee workplace harassment;
(g)	with the employer, regularly reviewing the procedures of this policy to ensure that they adequately meet the policy objectives.
Every member of the union has a responsibility to play a part in ensuring that the working environment is free from workplace harassment. This responsibility can only be discharged if every member ensures that his or her conduct avoids even the suggestion that it might
122
constitute workplace harassment. In addition, any member of the union who believes that another member has experienced or is experiencing workplace harassment is encouraged to notify your shop steward or union official.
Signed March 3, 1997
Letter of Understanding No. 13
Workplace Harassment Policy
Definition:
"Harassment" means any objectable conduct, comment or display by a person that:
]) is directed at a worker and
2)	is made on the basis of race, creed, religion, colour, sex, sexual orientation, status, family status, disability, physical size or weight, age, nationality, ancestry or place of origin, and
3)	constitutes a threat to the Health and Safety of the employee
Saskfor MacMillan is committed to providing a harassment free work environment for our employees. Harassment is against the law and will not be tolerated at this workplace.
Every employees is entitled to employment free of harassment. No employee shall cause or participate in the harassment of another employee.
Procedure for Complaints:
]) All employees are encouraged to work with
123
Saskfor MacMillan to resolve an incident of harassment internally.
2)	An employee who feels harassment has occurre is encouraged, where able to indicate, clearly at firmly to the alleged harasser that the particular behaviour is unwelcome and should stop.
3)	Where an employee is unable to confront the alleged harasser, or when such a direct approacl is unsuccessful, the employee should raise the issue with their immediate supervisor or:
I	Any Saskfor MacMillan Limited Divisic Management personnel - Production Superintendent, Plant Manager, Human Resource and Accounting.
II	Any Union Official whether a Shop Stev ard or Committee Member.
III	Any Occupational Health and Safety Committee Member or Chairperson.
Upon receiving a complaint, the Company must and sh; proceed with notification to the alleged harasser and shall quickly and confidentially investigate the complaint.
Confidentiality
The Company will not disclose the identity of the employee or the circumstances of the complaint except where disclosure is necessary:
I	for the purposes of investigating or taking disciplinary action in relation to the complaint, or
I24
1 where such disclosure is required by law. Corrective Action
following the conclusion of the investigation, the company will inform the employee and the alleged harasser afthe results of the investigation.
Where the allegations of harassment are substantiated, the company will take steps to prevent the harassment from continuing and ensure the appropriate corrective action or discipline is taken.
There will be no adverse consequences to any employee as a result of filing a sincere harassment complaint.
External Complaints
Nothing in this Harassment Policy Statement shall discourage or prevent an employee from referring a harassment complaint to or initiating a harassment complaint under:
I	The Occupational Health and Safety Branch pursuant to the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993
II	The Saskatchewan Human Rights code, or
III	Exercising any other legal rights available under any other law.
Saskfor MacMillan Limited is committed to providing every employee with a work environment which is free
125
from harassment.
Dated January 18, 1997
Letter of Understanding No. 14
Student Hiring
1.	Students will be hired in the following order of priorities:
a)	Students who have successfully completed first year of a minimum two year progam and are regis, tered for the second or successive year of studies.
b)	Students who have sucessfully completed Grade 12 and are registered in a minimum one year program will be offered employment the summer they finish Grade 12 and the following summer if they complete their one year course of study.
2.	Saskfor will undertake to employ dependents cf active employees up to but not restrictive to 60% of summer student requirements. The Divisions will not I obliged to solicit applications to meet the percentage requirements. Student hiring will reflect the gender mi in the application pool on hand at the time of selection.
3.	A hiring committee will be established comprisi of equal representatives from the mills that are particip: ing in the Summer Student application pool.
4.	Saskfor and I.W.A. Canada, Local 1-184 agree that time specific contract letters will be signed by all summer students specifying length of employment and that all terms and conditions of current collective agree ments will be in force at the particular operation studen is employed at.
I26
Letter of Understanding No. 15
In Province Apprenticeship Program Training Allowance
'he Parties hereby agree that they are desirous of iromoting a Trades Apprenticeship Program within the jperations covered by collective agreements negotiated jetween the Parties. To facilitate changes in Federal/ Provincial funding arrangements previously in place, the Parties agree to the following payment schedule for \pprenticeship employees attending training in recog-lized facilities covered by the Trades Apprenticeship \greements at the Company operations. The Parties nutually agree that upon request of either Party to meet o review and update or work toward resolve of issues hat may arise that are relevant to the ongoing promotion )f the apprenticeship programs.
1.	Apprentices attending classes shall be paid 8 lours straight time at their regular hourly rate for each iay the apprentice attends.
2.	A daily subsistence allowance of $20.00 to a maximum of $100.00 per week will be paid for out of town attendance at scheduled classes.
3.	For each scheduled period of classes or once per month, the apprentice will be paid an allowance of $.32 per km for operating own personal vehicle. This payment shall be equivalent to the return trip from the apprentice's normal residence to the training facility. A payment of $30.00 for meals will also be made on a one time per
127
return trip basis.
4.	Costs for text books and required materials (i.e drafting kit, industrial mechanic's manual) specifically related to the Trades Class the aprentice is taking will reimbursed.
This agreement will be effective March 1, 1997.
Letter of Understanding No. 16
Out of Province Apoprenticeship Program Training Allowance
The Parties hereby agree that they are desirous of promoting a Trades Apprenticehsip Program within tf operations covered by collective agreements negotiate between the Parties. To facilitate changes in Federal/ Provincial funding arrangements previously in place, i Parties agree to the following payment schedule for Apprenticeship employees attending training in recog' nized facilities covered by the Trades Apprenticeship Agreements at the Company operations. The Parties mutually agree that upon request of either Party to me to review and update or work toward resolve of issues that may arise that are relevant to the ongoing promoti of the apprenticeship programs.
There will be an attached addendum letter of understa ing to this document re: out-of-province apprentices)! program training allowance.
1. Saskfor MacMillan Limited employees attendi 128
lasses shall be paid actual lost wages for each day the mployee attends.
. A daily subsistence allowance of$27.00 will be aid for ail days the apprentice is away from his/her place f normal residence. (To include travel and for all ecessary days away from home in order to comply with ■aining schedule duration.)
. Costs of hotel accommodation shall be provided nd reimbursed upon presentation of receipts.
. The apprentice will be paid the cost of airfare ■ansportation/or an allowance of $.32 per km for operat-ig own personal vehicle whichever applicable based on ie choice of the apprentice.
, Costs for text books and required materials (i.e. rafting kit, industrial mechanic's manual) specifically elated to the Trades Class the apprentice is taking will e reimbursed.
'his Agreement will be effective March 1, 1997.
I29