COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. Grande Prairie Operations
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 446
Effective March 1, 2001 to
February 28, 2004
Grande Prairie Operations
r,
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE I - GENERAL....................................5
Section 1 - Purpose..................................5
Section 2 - Mutual Responsibilities..................6
Section 3 - Pay for Voluntary Meetings...............6
Section 4 - Harassment.............................. 6
ARTICLE 2-DEFINITIONS..................................7
Section 1 - Employee.................................7
Section 2 - Employment Categories....................7
Section 3 - Grievance................................8
Section 4 - Gender Reference.........................8
ARTICLE 3 -MANAGEMENT..................................8
Section 1 - Direction of Work........................8
Section 2 - Employee Selection and Discipline........9
ARTICLE 4 - BARGAINING AGENCY.........................10
Section 1 - Recognition............................I 0
ARTICLE 5 -UNION SECURITY.............................10
Section 1 - Cooperation.............................10
Section 2 - Union Shop..............................10
Section 3 - Discharge of Non-Members (Constitutional).10
Section4 -Applicationfor Membership.................11
Section 5 - Check-off...............................11
Section 6 - Dues Payment............................11
ARTICLE 6 - CASUAL EMPLOYEES..........................11
Section 1 - Casual Employees’ Work..................11
Section2 - HoursofWork..............................12
Section 3- Benefits.................................12
Section4 -Considerationfor Hiring...................13
ARTICLE 7 -WAGES......................................14
Section 1 - Wage Scale..............................14
Section 2 - Wage Rate Determination.................14
Section 3 - Rate Protection.........................15
Section 4 - Pay Days................................15
Section 5 - Premium Rates...........................15
Section 6 - Notice of Cancellation..................16
Section 7 - Call Time...............................17
Section 8 - Casual Employee Rates...................18
Section 9 - Welders.................................18
Section 10 - Lumber Graders and Log Scalers...........18
ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK.............................19
Section 1 - Production Employees....................19
Section 2 - Millwrights, Maintenance,Repairand Construction
Employees and Watchmen........................19
Section 3 - Casual Employees........................20
Section 4 - Double Straight-Time Rates..............20
Section 5 - Completion of Shifts....................20
Section 6 - Designation of Shifts...................20
Section 7 - Three-Shift Operation...................22
Section 8 - Lunch & Rest Periods....................23
Section 9 - Notification of Absence.................23
Section 10 - Meals..................................23
Section 11 - Advance Notification of Return to Work.24
ARTICLE 9 - ALTERNATE SHUT SCHEDULES...................24
ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY.................................24
Section 1 - Probation Period........................24
Section 2 - Principle...............................25
Section 3 -Application..............................25
Section 4 - Departments.............................26
Section 5 - Reduction of Forces.....................26
Section 6 - Recall..................................27
Section 7 - Retention of Seniority..................28
Section 8 - Seniority Lists.........................28
Section 9 -Transferto Staff.........................28
ARTICLE 11 -JOB POSTING AND TRAINING...................29
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE..........................34
Section 1 - General Principles......................34
Section 2 - Injury or Illness.......................35
Section 3 - Union Business..........................35
Section 4 - Bereavement Leave.......................36
Section 5- Jury Duty................................37
Section 6 - Maternity / Parental Leave..............37
Section 7 - Public Office...........................37
Section 8 - Extended Vacations......................38
Section 9- Other....................................38
ARTICLE 13 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS........................39
ARTICLE 14 - PERSONALAND FLOATING
HOLIDAYS................................41
Section I - Floating Holiday........................41
Section 2 - Floating Holiday Entitlement............41
ARTICLE 15 -VACATIONSWITH PAY..........................42
Section 1 - One to Two Years' Service...............42
Section 2 - Two Years' Service......................42
Section 3 - Seven Years' Service....................43
Section 4 - Fifteen Years' Service...............43
Section 5 - Twenty-Four Years' Service...........43
Section 6 -Thirty Years' Service.................43
Section 7 - Vacation Scheduling..................44
Section8 -Time Included for Vacation Entitlement.44
ARTICLE 16 - SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL
HEALTH................................45
Section 1 - Principles............................45
Section 2 - Joint Health & Safety Committee.......45
Section 3 - Compensation..........................46
Section 4- Fatal Accident.........................46
ARTICLE 17 - GRIEVANCEPROCEDURE.....................46
Section 1 - Committee.............................46
Section 2 - Procedure.............................46
Section 3 -Abandonment............................47
ARTICLE 18 -ARBmUOTTCIN.............................48
Section 1 - Principles............................48
Section 2 - Expenses..............................49
Section 3- Location...............................49
ARTICLE 19 -HEALTH AND ............................ 49
ARTICLE 20 -LONG TERM DISABILITY....................52
ARTICLE 21 -DENTAL PLAN.............................52
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE FAMILY ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM...............................53
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY EQUIPMENT.......................53
ARTICLE 24 -PENSION PLAN............................55
ARTICLE 25-APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT................55
Section 1 - Wage Rates for Apprentices............56
Section 2 - Expenses..............................57
Section 3 - Selection of Apprentices..............57
Section 4 - SuccessfulApplicants..................57
Section 5 - Right to Continue.....................57
Section 6 - Tests.................................57
Section 7 -Tools..................................58
ARTICLE 26 - TOOL INSURANCE.........................58
ARTICLE 27 - CONTRACTING OUT........................59
ARTICLE 28 - GENERAL PROVISIONS.....................59
Section 1 - Letters of Understandings Supplements.59
Section 2 - Coveralls.............................59
Section 3- Medical Examinations...................60
Section 4 - Bulletin Boards.................60
Section 5 -Alternate Employment.............60
Section 6 - Disability Managemert Committee.61
Section 7 - Job Evaluations..............   61
ARTICLE 29 ■ PERMANENT PLANT CLOSURE..........62
ARTICLE 30 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANCE.............62
Section 1 -Advance Notification.............62
Section 2 - Severance Pay...................62
Section 3 - Rate Adjustment.................63
ARTICLE 31 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT............63
WAGE SCHEDULE.................................65
SAWMILL AND PLANER UTILITYPOSmONS.............76
COMPRESSED WORKWEEK SCHEDULE -
MAINTENANCE...................................80
SEASONALJOB POSTING POLICY....................86
ENTRY LEVEL POSITIONS.........................88
JOB POSTINGS..................................90
INTERMITTENT PLANER GRAVEYARD SHIFT...........92
VACATION RELIEF PERSONNEL.....................94
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT dated the l’day oflykrch,AD. 2001. BETWEEN
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD,
Grande Prairie Operations (hereinafterknown as the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 446 Grande Prairie, Alberta (hereinafterknown as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE I - GENERAL
Section 1 - Purpose
The general purpose of this Agreement is, in the mutual interest of the employer and the employee, to provide for the operation of the Plant (or Plants) hereinafter mentioned under methods which will further, to the fullest extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output, cleanliness of Plant and protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company and the Union to cooperate fully for the advancement of said conditions.
5
ARTICLE 1 - General (cont’d.)
Section 2 - Mutual Responsibilities
It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company to explain fully the terms of this Agreement to all its officers, foremen, and others engaged in a supervisory capacity and it is recognized to be the duty of the Union to explain fully to its members their responsibilities and obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3 - Pay for Voluntary Meetings
If the Company calls a meeting to be attended by employees on a voluntary basis outside of their normal scheduled hours of work, employees will be reimbursed at their regular straight time hourly rate for any time spent at the meeting. The meetings that will be paid are as follow's: EFAP Committee, Donations Committee, Employee Survey Committee, Safety Committee, and Safety Subcommittee meetings. This list can be changed by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
Whenever possible, meetings will be scheduled during normal working hours.
Section 4 - Harassment
The Company will maintain a harassment free environment. All harassment complaints will be handled as confidentially as possible.
Definition <£ Harassment
Harassment is defined as unwanted behaviour of a personal, sexual or racial nature that is directed at and is offensive to an individual.
6
ARTICLE 2 - Deftntiom
ARTICLE 2-DEFINITIONS
Wherever used in this Agreement, including exhibits: Section 1 - Employee
The word “employee”means any person on the payroll of the Company at the location (or locations) named in this Agreement excepting: office, credit and secretarial staff, sales staff, security guards, employees engaged in logging operations in Grande Prairie and those persons performing managerial or industrial relations functions as defined by the Alberta Labour Relations Act.
Section 2 - Employment Categories
a)	“Casuaf’employees are students, 17 years or older, in full-time attendance at a school, college, university, etc., hired for the purpose of weekend cleanup.
b)	“Probationary’’employees are employees who have not completed thirty (30) working days within ninety (90) calendar days following the date of entering employment.
c)	“Regular”employees are employeeswho have completed their thirty (30) day probationary period.
cl) A “Chargehand is a Union member who, under the direction of Management, has been assigned the duties of relaying instructions, advising Management of the progress of the work and assisting Management and crews in the common effort of maintaining the highest standards of safety, quality and quantity of production.
A chargehand does not have the authority to hire, discipline or discharge another Union member.
7
ARTICLE2 - DejMons (cant’d.)
Any employee assigned to the position of chargehand will be limited to no more than sixty (60) consecutive calendar days as a chargehand, at which time they must return to their bidj ob for a minimum period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days before being reinstated as a chargehand. For the purpose of this agreement any partial day will be counted as a full day.
If the days assigned as chargehand are not consecutive days, the employee will not accumulate more than sixty (60) days in a ninety (90) day period.
Any special circumstances to extend this period must be mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
Section 3 - Grievance
“Grievance”,“dispute”,or “complaint’’means any difference between the persons bound by this Agreement concerning its interpretation, application, operation, or any alleged violation thereof, and “Party”means either one of the parties to this Agreement.
Section 4 - Gender Reference
It is understood that references to masculine gender shall be interchangeable with feminine gender throughout this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT Section 1 - Direction of Work
The management of the operation and direction and promotion of the employees is vested exclusively in the management, provided, however, that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
8
ARTICLE3 - Management (cont’d.)
Employees outside the bargaining unit will not perform work that is normally done ty employees in the bargaining unit. However, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting supervisors from doing work for purposes of instruction, provided in so doing a lay-off of bargaining unit employees does not result, or in the case of an emergency when regular employees are not available, provided that every reasonable effort is made to find a replacement.
Section 2 - Employee Selection and Discipline
The Company shall have the right to select its employees and discipline or discharge them for just cause.
a)	An employee shall be advised by the Company that he has the right to have a Union Shop Steward or Executive Officer present before the Company disciplines him. In the case of discipline involving suspension or discharge, a Union Shop Steward or Executive Officer must be present.
b)	The Company shall have the right to maintain a copy of warnings in the file of each employee PROVIDED HOWEVER that once an employee has gone a period of twelve (12) months without accumulating a further warning, the previous warnings will be removed from the employee’s file and destroyed by the Company.
c)	Employees shall have the right to review their personnel files and request photocopies of material contained therein. Arrangements to view files are to be made through the Personnel Office.
9
ARTICLE 4-Bargaining Agency
ARTICLE 4 - BARGAINING AGENCY Section 1 - Recognition
The Company recognizes the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada and the Union as the only agency representing all employees as defined in this Agreement for the purpose of collective bargaining.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY Section 1 - Cooperation
The Company will cooperate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present to new employees and to all supervisors and foremen the policy herein expressed.
Section 2 - Union Shop
Any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall as a condition of continued employment, maintain membership in good standing in the Union throughout the term of this Agreement and without limiting the foregoing, all employees hired during the term of this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, become a member of the Union thirty (30) calendar days after becoming employed ty the Company.
Section 3 - Discharge of Non-Members (Constitutional)
Any employee who fails to maintain membership in good standing in the Union shall be discharged after seven (7) days’ written notice to the Company by the Union of the employee’s failure to maintain membership in good standing.
10
ARTICLES- Union Security (cant’d.)
Section 4 -Application for Membership
No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the constitution and By-Laws of the National Union and Local Union. A copy of such constitution and By-Laws and any changes thereto, shall be transmitted to the Company.
Section 5 - Check-off
The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to execute an assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union. All the check-off forms are to be forwarded to the Local Union within fifteen (15) days of hiring.
Section 6 - Dues Payment
This assignment in the case of the employees already members of the Union shall be effective immediately, and for those employees not previously members of the Union, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution. The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked in writing by the employee) to the Union named therein not less than once each month with a written statement of the names of employees for whom the deductions were macle and the amount of each deduction.
ARTICLE 6 - CASUAL EMPLOYEES
Section 1 - Casual Employees’ Work
Casual employees shall only be permitted to do the following work:
11
ARTICLE 6- Casual Employees (cant’d.)
i.	Cleanup
Mill areas - General Cleanup
Yard	- General Cleanup including piling spilled
loads
Shop	- General Cleanup of vehicles, including
steam cleaning and cleanup of shops
ii.	Maintenance Helpers Sparkwatch
Casual employees are not eligible to become regular employees or perform the duties of regular employees unless they terminate the casual workforce and are rehired into the permanent workforce.
Section 2 - Hours of Work
Casual employees will not be guaranteed any number of hours per week. Hours of work available to casual employees will be allocated on the basis of seniority within the casual group.
Casual employees will be responsible for knowing what work is available to them on a weekly basis. This can be confirmed by phoning our office or discussing future work availabilitywith the cleanup supervisor.
a)	In the event of a change in condition or following a curtailment period, the Company will make every effort to contact all casual employees.
Section 3 - Benefits
Casual employees are not entitled to benefits except as follows:
12
ARTICLE 6 - Carnal Employees (cant'd.)
a)	Vacation pay calculated at four percent (4%) of gross earnings.
b)	Coveralls will be supplied, at Company expense, to all casual employees with the understanding that:
-	The coveralls will be the sole responsibility of the employee, including periodic cleaning.
-	If the employee is not with the Company for a period of six (6) months or more, the coveralls must be returned in good condition. If this is not done, the employee will be charged for the coveralls (based on a six-month depreciation of the coverall).
■ New coveralls will be issued to casual employees as required, but replacement will not be made for lost or stolen coveralls.
Section 4- Consideration for Hiring
It is agreed between the parties that Casual employees, upon termination of their position as Casual, who desire employment in a regular position will inform the Company of their desire and will be given first consideration for hiring to a regular position. This consideration does not constitute a guarantee for hiring and is contingent on the employee having satisfied the basic criteria used in hiring all new Regular employees.
13
ARTICLE 7 ~ Wages
ARTICLE7 - WAGES Section 1 -WageScale
The wage scale for the term of this Agreement shall be as set forth in Supplement No. 1 of this Agreement.
a)	Effective March 1, 2001, the wages of all hourly rated employees will be increased by two percent (2%) per hour.
b)	Effective March 1, 2002, the wages of all hourly rated employees will be increased by a further two percent (2%) per hour.
c)	Effective March 1, 2003, the wages of all hourly rated employees will be increased by a further two percent (2%) per hour.
Section 2 -Wage Rate Determination
The Company reserves the right to establish or revisej ob classifications as well as the new hourly rate for thejob classification so established or revised during the life of this Agreement. The Company agrees to notify the Union
Upon the establishment of suchjob classification and wage rate and the Union shall have thirty (30) days after such notification within which to request that
The rate so established be made the subject of collective bargaining. In the event the Company receives no request within such period, the rate shall be deemed acceptable and shall become part of this Agreement. In the event that the rate is made the subject of collective bargaining, the Company and the Union shall meet as soon as may
14
ARTICLE 7- Wages (cant’d.)
be convenient to commence bargaining regarding the new
rate.
Section 3 - Rate Protection
a)	Employeeswho are directed by the Company to work on a higher paidjob, if their regularjob is available, will receive the rate for the higher paidjob.
b)	Employees who are directed by the Company to work on a lower paidj ob, if their regularjob is available, will be paid their regularjob rate.
Section 4 - Pay Days
The Company shall provide for pay days every second week, and each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions. Whenever possible, employees shall receive their pay cheques and statements in sealed envelopes.
Sections - PremiumRates
a)	The first shift, which may vary in individual operations, is the recognized day shift. Hours worked outside the recognized day shift will be regarded as the second and third shifts. Premium rate of thirty-one cents ($.31) per hour will be paid for the second and third shifts. Day shift employees working in excess of eight (8) hours will be paid rate and one-half without the differential. Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall
be paid the applicable per hour premium rate as specified in this section for all hours worked outside the recognized day shift.
b)	i. All certified lumber graders shall receive the premiums set out below in addition to their hourly rate:
3-year ticket	$.35 per hour
15
ARTICLE 7- Wages (cant’d.)
1-yearticket	$.20 per hour
provided that these premium rates shall be paid only when actually engaged as lumber graders.
ii. Ary employee holding a three-year or one-year ticket shall receive a premium of $.10 per hour for all hours worked. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
c)	It is agreed that a Tradesman employed by the Company who holds more than one trade ticket and, as part of his regularjob required by the Company, applies the knowledge of his ticketed trades as part of his regular duties, will be paid an additional thirty (30) cents per hour above his regularjob rate.
d)	It is further agreed that a Tradesman employed by the Company who holds more than taro tickets and, as part of his regularjob as required by the Company, applies the knowledge of his ticketed trades as part of his regular duties, will be paid the highest trade rate as designated in the wage supplement for the trade tickets plus an additional forty (40) cents per hour.
e)	Shift differential and graders’ premiums will be paid on Statutory Holidays, Personal Floaters and Floating Holidays.
Section 6 - Notice of Cancellation
a)	If employees present themselves for work and, due to any conditions beyond their control there is no work available, they shall receive two (2) hours pay unless sufficient warning has been given cancelling the work call for the day.
It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given 16
ARTICLE 7- Wages (cant’d.)
cancelling the work call for the first or day shift provided notice has been given over radio stations SUN FM and Big Country 93.1 not later than one and one-half (1 1/2) hours before the shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour period.
It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given cancelling the work call for the afternoon shift when notice has been given over the radio stations SUNFM and Big Country 93.1 not later than one and one-half (11/2) hours before the shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour period.
It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given cancelling the work call for the graveyard shift when notice has been given over the radio stations SUNFM and Big Country 93.1 not later than one and one-half (
1 1/2) hours before the shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour period.
b)	When an employee is called for work and starts work, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate unless his work is suspended because of inclement weather or other reasons completely beyond the control of the Company. If work is suspended for reasons completely beyond the control of the Company, the employee will be paid for time actually worked.
Section 7 - Call Time
a)	Any employee called to work on his designated day off, on Sunday, on a Statutory Holiday, or after having left the plant after working his regular shift, will be paid a minimum of three (3) hours at rate and one-half (1 1/21.
17
ARTICLE 1 - Wages (cont’d.)
b)	If he is then required to perform any other work than which necessitated the call-in, he will be paid at rate and one-half (11/2) for all time worked.
Section 8 - Casual Employee Rates
All casual employees will be paid at seventy-five percent (75%) of base rate. Effective March 1, 2000, all casual employees will be paid at eighty percent (80%)of base rate.
Section 9 -Welders
Employees employed as welders and who are required by the Company to renew or upgrade their welding qualifications shall be granted up to five (5) days paid leave of absence to attend school for instruction. The Company shall pay the cost of instruction and examination.
Section 10 - Lumber Graders and Log Scalers
Employees of the Company who, by mutual agreement, train or retrain for lumber grading and log scaling certificates will be compensated in the following manner:
a)	The Company will pay the cost of materials required to those employees who take the courses.
b)	The Company will pay lost time wages to employees who take the courses.
c)	Employees who train or retrain for lumber grading will be selected on the following basis:
1.	Current graders whose certificate or permit is expiring will take priority.
2.	Remaining employees will be selected by seniority within their department, but in selecting those employees, consideration will be given to avoiding
18
ARTICLE 7 - Wages (cont’d.)
depletion of crews in any one department which will impair production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Union will cooperate with the Company.
ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK
Section 1 - Production Employees
a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive. Rate and one-half shall be paid for any hours worked over eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.
b)	The Parties to this Agreement agree that the Company has the right to operate its plant or plants or any part thereof on a continuous seven-day schedule.
c)	All worked performed on Sunday except for work performed by casual employees shall be paid at rate and one-half provided the regular employee has worked at least one shift in the preceding week.
Section 2 - Millwrights, Maintenance, Repair and Construction Employees and Watchmen
The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day, with two (2) days of rest each week, Monday through Sunday. Such days of rest will be consecutive days, unless mutually agreed to be otherwise, between the employee and the Company.
a)	Overtime shall be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8)hours per day, on Sunday
19
ARTICLE8-Hours cf Work (cant’d.)
if worked, and on the employee’stwo (2) designated days of rest if worked.
Section 3 - Casual Employees
Casual employees will be paid straight time for Saturday and Sunday if worked.
Section 4 - Double Straight-Time Rates
Notwithstanding the foregoing, double straight-time rates will be paid for:
a)	All hours worked in excess of eleven (11) per day.
b)	All hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
c)	For the purpose of (b) herein, a Statutory Holiday will be considered a shift worked.
d)	Item (b) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
Section 5 - Completion of Shifts
It is agreed between the parties that if one (1)hour or less is necessary after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding a Statutory Holiday in order to complete the shift which commenced on Friday afternoon or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, the time worked after midnight to complete the shift would be paid at straight time.
Section 6 - Designation of Shifts
a)	The first shift, which may vary from time to time as determined by the Company, shall be designated the Day Shift. The second shift, following the Day Shift, shall be designated the Afternoon Shift. The third shift,
20
ARTICLE 8-Hours <f Work (cant’d.)
following the Afternoon shift, shall be designated the Graveyard Shift. Shifts shall be rotated on a basis mutually agreeable to the Company and the Union.
b)	It is agreed between the parties that production and labour positions on a non-rotating graveyard shift will be recognized as unique from the same position on a rotating shift.
Under the terms of this Agreement, job postings will specify whether the position is for graveyard or rotating shift.
c)	The Company shall post notices in the plant stating details of starting and ending time of shifts, and shall give no less than one (l)full working day’snotice of changes thereof.
d)	If a change in the posted shift schedule results in an employee having to change shifts after the start of the work week, overtime will be paid for the first shift resulting from the change.
e)	The parties to this Agreement agree that the Company has the right to operate its plant or any parts thereof for nine (9) hours per shift, the said nine (9) hours
to constitute the regular hours of work per day.
The Company shall retain the right to determine shift length up to nine (9) hours per shift in any unit or department of the operation. Rate and one-half shall be paid for any hours worked over eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.
The Company agrees to give at least ten (10) working 21
ARTICLE8 - Hours <£ Vixk. (coat’d.)
days notice in writing of change from an eight (8) hour shift schedule to a nine (9) hour shift schedule and at least three (3) working days notice in writing of a change from a nine (9) hour shift schedule to an eight (8) hour shift schedule. The change in shift schedule from an eight (8) hour shift to a nine (9) hour shift will be implemented at the beginning of a work week.
Section 6(e) above shall apply to all areas of Grande Prairie Operations except the planermill.
f)	It is understood that when a nine (9) hour shift is
required in the planermill for a period of up to one (1) month, the Executive of the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company and to recommend to the employees affected that they work the nine (9) hours shift for the above period.
The Union Executivewill advise the Company if fifty-one percent (51%) of those voting have approved. When such notice is received, the Company will make arrangements to institute the nine (9) hour shift in the planerrmill.
Section 7 - Three-Shift Operation
a)	The Company shall have the right to operate its plant or any part thereof on a three-shift basis, and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Company’s option.
b)	It is agreed that (a) above shall apply to only those employees actually working on a three-shift basis.
c)	The Company shall have the right to determine the
22
ly
ARTICLE 8 - Hours of Work (cont’d.)
number of shifts operated in any unit or department of
the operation.
d)	Where less than three shifts are worked, Clause (a) shall not apply.
e)	The foregoing provision of this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 8 - Lunch & Rest Periods
Employees shall have two (2) ten (10) minute paid rest periods during each shift, one within each half of a shift at a time designated by the Company, which shall not be earlier than one (1)hour into each half shift nor later than one (1) hour before the end of each half shift.
During the graveyard short shift there shall be one (1) ten (10) minute paid rest period.
Employees will be allowed one (1) thirty (30) minute lunch break as designated during each regular shift.
Section 9 - Notification of Absence
When an employee is unavoidably prevented from reporting for his scheduled shift, if reasonably possible, he must give notice to his foreman, or at the Company office, at least two (2) hours before the shift commences.
Section 10 - Meals
When an employee is notified during his normal shift that he will be required to work two (2) or more hours overtime beyond that shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal, such meal to be consumed on Company time.
23
ARTICLE8 - Hours cf Work (cant’d.J
Where the employee declines the meal, the Company will provide the employee with a Ten Dollar ($10.00) payroll credit.
The foregoing shall not apply to overtime which is scheduled prior to the commencement of the normal shift, provided that a minimum of three (3) hours notice prior to the commencement of the normal shift is given.
Section 11 -Advance Notification of Return to Work
Where an employee has been off work due to illness or injury for more than two (2) days, he must advise the Company at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance regarding his ability to return to work.
In the case of shorter absences, notice must be given by 12:00 noon for Afternoon shift and prior to the end of the working day previous for Day shift.
ARTICLE 9 - ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULES
The Union and the Company shall have the right under the terms of the Agreement to mutually agree upon and implement alternate shift schedules of different lengths from those covered in Article 8 - Hours of Work, which may include Sundays without overtime, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour work week is maintained over an averaging period not to exceed eight (8) weeks.
ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY Section 1 - Probation Period
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, it shall be mutually agreed that all employees
24
ARTICLE 10 - Senority (cont’d.)
are hired on probation, the probationary period to continue until thirty (30) days have been worked, during which time they are to be considered probationary employees only, and during this same period, no seniority rights shall be recognized.
Upon completion of thirty (30) days worked, they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company’s employ, provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) days worked shall only be cumulative within the ninety (90) calendar days following the date of entering employment.
Section 2 - Principle
a)	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority, competency considered.
b)	When making promotions, the Company agrees to give due consideration to length of service.
c)	Where the Company operates more than one plant, each plant will be considered separately for seniority purposes, except where the Union and the Company agree upon some different arrangement.
Section 3 -Application
a)	The application of seniority shall be based first on department and second on plant seniority.
b)	Promotions within a department will be based on plant seniority, competency considered.
25
ARTICLE 10- Senority (cont’d.)
Section 4 - Departments
Departments for seniority purposes shall be:
a)	Maintenance and miscellaneous
b)	Production
When an employee bids into a department and is confirmed in the department, his plant and department seniority will be equal.
Section 5 - Reduction of Forces
a)	In the event of a reduction of forces, the last person hired shall be the first released subject to the provisions of Section 2(a) of this Article.
b)	Prior to a reduction of forces, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the application of seniority of those employees who remain on thejob, but whose jobs have been eliminated as a result of the reduction of the work force. Senior employees will be given the opportunity, in line with seniority, to performjobs for which they are competent.
c)	Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions, the application of seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding five (5) working days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Union as soon as possible.
d)	In the event of a reduction of forces within a department, the employee with last plant seniority will be the first out of the department. The employees affected by the reduction may apply seniority in accordance with
26
ARTICLE 10 - Sonority (cant’d.)
(a) above or the employee may, by request, revert to their previously heldjobs within the department, providing they have plant seniority to remain in the department.
e)	In the event of a reduction of forces, total plant seniority will be applied as follows:
The last person hired shall be the first released, according to plant seniority, competency considered.
f)	For the purpose of this Agreement, temporary reductions shall mean a period not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days, subject to review and extension by the parties prior to the end of each thirty (30) day period.
g)	Prior to any reduction of forces, the Company and Union Executive will meet to discuss such things as: application of seniority as it affects employees both remaining and laid off, as well as the length of time of the reduction.
Section 6 - Recall
a)	It is agreed that when employees are to be recalled after layoff, it shall be done on the basis of the last person released shall be the first person recalled, subject to the provisions of Section 2 (a). It is agreed that in cases
of emergency the application of plant seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding three (3) days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Union immediately.
b)	It is agreed that when recalling employees laid off due to seasonal shutdown or reduction of the working
27
ARTICLE 10 - Senoriiy (cotit’d.)
forces, they will be notified in order of plant seniority by communication to their last know address, prior to starting of operations.
c)	It shall be the Company’s responsibility to maintain an address file of employees and it shall be the employee’s responsibility to keep the Company informed in writing of any change of address.
Section 7 - Retention of Seniority
It is agreed between the parties that seniority during layoffs shall be retained on the following basis:
a)	Employees with less than one (l)year’s service will retain their seniority for a period of six (6) months.
b)	Employees with one (1) or more years of service shall retain their seniority for one (1)year plus one (1) additional month for each year of service up to an additional six (6) months.
c)	A laid-off employee’sseniority retention as defined in
(a)	and (b) above is reinstated upon the completion of one (1) day’ s work.
Section 8 - Seniority Lists
It is agreed that upon the request of the Union, a list will be supplied by the Company setting out the name and the starting date with the Company of each regular employee on a plant basis. The Company will advise the Union once each month of changes to the said list.
Section 9 - Transfer to Staff
In the case where an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory position, he will continue to
28
ARTICLE 10- Senority (cant’d.)
accumulate seniority for a period of ninety (90) consecutive calendar days. At any time during the ninety (90) day probationary period, the individual shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit in thej ob which he previously held.
At the expiration of the period mentioned above, his seniority will be frozen. Thus, if at a later date, he ceases to be a supervisor and the Company desires to retain his services, it is hereby agreed that reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit provided, however, that any employee so reinstated must return to an entry leveljob. For seniority purposes, he shall have his frozen seniority plus his newly accumulated seniority.
An employee shall only be entitled to one (1) such ninety (90) calendar day period within an eighteen (18) month period.
ARTICLE 11 - JOB POSTING AND TRAINING
The purpose of the Job Posting and Training Program is to select senior persons for training in the Production Department and thereby afford them the opportunity to become competent to perform otherjobs in the operation.
Job Posting, Training Procedure and Seniority Clarification
1. The Company shall have the right to temporarily fill the job vacancy subject to thej ob posting procedure and seniority clarification.
29
ARTICLE 11- Job Posting and Training (cant’d.)
2.	(a) All permanent vacancies shall be posted.
(b)	Temporary vacancies of less than three (3) weeks shall not be posted.
(c)	In filling the non-posted temporary vacancies, senior employees, competency considered, will be given preference.
(d)	Ninety (90) calendar days after a temporary job posting has been closed, it will become a per-manentjob and will be re-posted as permanent. Weekly Indemity and Workers’ Compensation bids are exempted from this 90-day provision.
(e)	Employees filling the vacancies created in (d) above will return to their previously held bid positions on the return of the employee causing the vacancy
(f)	The parties hereby agree that if an employee becomes unable to perform his/her normalj ob duties for any reason, such employee will be placed in another j ob category for which the employee has sufficient seniority in accordance with Article 10 - Seniority,Section 2(a).
3.	Vacancies will be posted onj ob posting bulletin board for a period of three (3) working days (excluding Saturday and Sunday.)
4.	Only written bids will be accepted. Forms will be provided and must be used and placed in the container in the lunchrooms.
30
ARTICLE 11 -Job Posting and Training (cant’d.)
5.	The name of the successful candidate will be written on original posting and be re-posted for a period of two (2) working days.
6.	All bid refusals must be in writing on the forms provided.
7.	All bids will be filed.
8.	Names of applicants will be listed on the file copy of the posting.
9.	The Union shall receive a list of the bids.
10.	Successful bidders for permanent vacancies involving lateral or downward bids will be limited to two (2) every six (6) months. It is agreed that bids for higher paid jobs will not be limited, with the exception of frivolous bidding for which the Company and the Union shall agree to limitations.
11.	Successful bidders shall be placed on thejobs as soon as possible, but not later than ten (10) working days from the date of declaring the successful bidder. In the event of problems arising from this section, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the application.
12.	If the successful bidder has previously qualified on the job for which he is bidding, the fifteen (15) working day trial period will not apply. The parties agree if
an employee has been selected and the job for which he has been selected requires a longer trial period than fifteen (15) working days, the trial period can be
31
ARTICLE 11 -Job Posting and Training (cant’d.)
extended but not to exceed twenty (20) working days. Extension of the fifteen (15) working day trial period shall be by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
13.	During the above trial period, the Company can, for good and sufficient cause, return the employee to his originaljob. The employee may, during the above trial period, voluntarily return to his originaljob.
14.	If an employee is declared incompetent in a certainjob:
(a)	He cannot again apply for that vacancy for one (1) year.
(b)	He goes back to his original position, and the vacancy shall be re-posted.
15.	When a vacancy has been posted and the successful applicant is chosen and the samejob becomes vacant, it is agreed that the next senior competent bidder will be given the opportunity to fill thejob, provided the time limit does not exceed a ten (10) working day period from the time of the original bid being awarded.
In the event the senior applicant does not accept the postedjob, his name will nonetheless remain on the posting. If thej ob becomes vacant within the previously mentioned ten (10) day period, he will still be eligible to fill the position.
16.	When a job vacancy occurs, the vacancy will be posted and thej ob will be awarded on the following basis:
32
ARTICLE 11 -Jab Posting and Training (cant’d.)
(a)	First priority in order of seniority to those who have previously lost the position as a result of a reduction of forces. This right to continue for one (1)year.
(b)	General plant seniority, competency considered.
15. Newly createdjobs shall be posted at “interim” rates until Management and the Union agree on the final wage rate.
18.	Thejob posting form shall include:
1)	Date
2)	Recognized name cf thejob
3)	Department involved
4)	Hourly rate
5)	The place where the applications are to be
submitted and the expiry time
6)	Any specific qualifications
7)	Space for the applicant’s name
8)	Shift identification.
19.	It is understood that employees absent from work due to vacation, sickness or injury, or approved leave of absence by the Company shall have the right to an absentee bid. Such a bid will be placed by a member of the Union, on the posting, on the instruction of the absent employee.
20.	It is agreed Maintenance, Apprentices, Trade Utility,
Saw Filers and Miscellaneous Categories shall be posted on a plant-wide basis. Plant seniority will be the determining factor in awarding thejob.
33
ARTICLE 11 -Job Posting and Training (cant’d.)
21.	(a) When an employee successfully bids into aj ob
group category which involves rotation and training, the employee will be paid the rate of the j ob group bid until he completes his training on thej ob in the higher paid group. The employee shall then receive the higher group rate as long as rotation is in effect.
(b)	When an employee has, as a result of job rotation, completed training, he will be so advised in writing by Management.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE Section I - General Principles
a)	Any employee desiring leave of absence for any reasons other than those set out in Sections 2 and 3 of this Article must obtain same in writing from the Company, a copy of such leave to be forwarded to the Local Union.
b)	Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this section for a period of no longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the Company agrees to notify the Union as to the circumstances for the granting of such a period of leave.
The Company will grant leave of absence to a maximum of six (6) months without pay to employees for educational or training purposes, conditional on the following terms:
i.	That the employee has at least one (1)year seniority with the Company.
ii,	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for such an application
34
ARTICLE 12 - Leave of Absence (cant’d.)
could not reasonably be foreseen.
iii.	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application.
iv.	That the Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant, or may postpone leave for educational or training purposes where a suitable replacement is not available.
v.	That the Company shall be required to notify the Union of its decision in respect to any application for leave under this section.
vi.	That the employee is only entitled to one leave of absence for educational or training purposes per calendar year.
Section 2 - Injury or Illness
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness, subject to a medical certificate if
requested by the employer.
Section 3 - Union Business
a)	The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or elected to the Union office for
a period of up to and including one (1)year. Further leave of absence may be granted by mutual consent.
Any employee who obtains such leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of his term of employment with the Union.
b)	The Union will make every effort in requesting such leaves of absence to avoid requests that will unduly
35
ARTICLE 12 - Leave <±Absence (cont’d.)
deplete the crew in any one department which will impair production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Union will cooperate with the Company in making substitute employees available or select alternate delegates to attend Union functions.
c)	The Company will grant leave of absence to any employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions, or members of any Union Negotiating committee in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
d)	It is agreed that before the employee receives this leave of absence as set forth in Clauses (a) and (c) above, the employer will be given due notice in writing by
the Union in order to replace the employee with a competent substitute.
Section 4 - Bereavement Leave
a)	When death occurs to a member of a regular, full-time employee’s immediate family, the Company will grant a Leave of Absence for a reasonable period of time. Members of the employee’s immediate family are defined as the spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, mother-inlaw, father-in-law, step-parents, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchildren, sisters-in-law,brothers-in-law, step-children, or legal guardian.
b)	The Company will pay a maximum of three (3) days pay lost time at the employee’sregular rate of pay for bereavement leave.
36
ARTICLE 12 - Leave <±Absence (cant’d.)
Section 5-Jury Duty
a)	Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, Coroner’s Duty, or as a Crown Witness or Coroner’s Witness on a day which he would normally have worked will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay received forJury Duty and his regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for his regular scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received forJury Duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of Jury Service andJury Duty pay received.
b)	Hours paid forJury Duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 6 - Maternity/ Parental Leave
The Company will grant Maternity and Parental Leave and
benefits in accordance with the terms of the Collective
Agreement and the appropriate Federal and/or Provincial
legislation.
Section 7 - Public Office
a) The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
37
ARTICLE 12 - Leave of Absence (cont’d.)
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave as
is necessary during the term of office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for conducting Municipal business.
c)	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
Section 8 - Extended Vacations
The Company will grant leave for extended vacation where
a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant on the
following terms:
(a)	The employee shall disclose the reasons for such application.
(b)	Employees making application for absence for “ExtendedVacations” shall apply at least one (1) month in advance.
(c)	It is agreed that upon employee’s request for leave of absence for extended vacations, such leaves shall only be granted once every three (3) years and that a record be kept for the purpose of rotating such leaves to the most senior applicant.
(d)	That applications for extended vacations may be postponed where a suitable replacement is not available.
Section 9- Other
By mutual agreement, the Company will grant a reasonable
period of leave for compassionate reasons.
38
ARTICLE 13 - Statutory Holidays
ARTICLE 13 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
a)	In the event that a Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the following Monday or any other day that may be designated by either the Provincial or Federal government shall be observed as the holiday.
b)	If another day is substituted by statute or decree for the observance of any of the holidays listed below, the day of the observance shall be deemed to be the holiday. If a Statutory Holiday falls on an employee’s normal day off, the employee shall be granted one other day in lieu of the holiday.
c)	All work performed on the Statutory Holidays below shall be paid for at rate and one-half:
New Year’s day Good Friday Victoria Day Family Day Christmas Day
Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Boxing Day
d)	An employee who qualifies for the above holidays under the conditions set out below in paragraph (e) shall be paid for the holiday at his regular rate of pay for his regular work schedule. It is agreed that the hours so paid for the Statutory Holiday will be included in the weekly work schedule. An employee working on a paid holiday shall be paid the overtime rate for hours worked in addition to receiving the straight time holiday pay for which he may qualify,
e)	Any employee, to qualify for Statutory Holiday pay, must have been on the payroll thirty (30) days during the
39
ARTICLE 13 - Statutory Holidays (cant’d.)
twelve (12) months preceding, and must have worked his last regularly scheduled shift before, and his first regularly scheduled after the holiday, unless his absence is due to compensable injury or ill ness or due to authorized leave of absence. In the case of injury or illness, the employer shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
f)	Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, if an employee fails to work within forty-five (45) calendar days immediately prior to the holiday, and within forty-five (45) calendar days immediately after the holiday, the employee shall not be entitled to be paid for any Statutory Holiday within that period.
g)	It is agreed that Casual employees shall not qualify for Statutory Holiday pay.
h)	In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, and when the Company and Union Committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or the following Friday respectively.
i)	At the request of the Local with thirty (30) days notice, the Company agrees to exchange Heritage Day for Family Day as the down Statutory Holiday.
If a Statutory holiday falls during an employee’s vacation,
such employee will take a paid day off at a date that is
mutually agreeable to the employee and the Company.
40
ARTICLE 14 - Personal aadFloating Holidays
ARTICLE 14 - PERSONALAND FLOATING
HOLIDAYS
Section 1 - Floating Holiday
Regular full-time employees will be granted two (2) floating holidays during each contract year, one of which will be in lieu of Heritage Day. These holidays are to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production. Legislation changes will not add to or reduce the number of floating Holidays or Statutory Holidays.
Section 2 - Floating Holiday Entitlement
a)	An employee must have worked for the Company one hundred eighty (180) calendar days to qualify for the floating holidays.
b)	Employees will not qualify for the floating holidays if on leave of absence for more than six (6)months in the contract year except in the case of sickness or injury.
c)	When the floating holiday is taken, an employee will be granted eight (8) hours’ pay at the straight time rate of the employee’s regularjob subject to the foregoing.
d)	When the employee requests his Floating Holiday less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the Floating Holiday, he shall receive written notice of the disposition of his request a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested Floating Holiday.
e)	When the employee requests his Floating Holiday more than ten (10) working days prior to the date of the Floating Holiday, he shall receive written notice of the disposition of the request a minimum of (7) days prior to the requested Floating Holiday.
41
ARTICLE 14 - Personal and Floating Holidays (cont’d.)
When an employee is required to work on his floating holiday, he will be paid rate and one-half plus his regular job rate. An employee requested to work on his floating holiday will have the option to work the originally scheduled floating holiday at time and one-half and to reschedule the floating holiday with pay at a later date.
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
Section 1 - One to Two Years’ Service
a)	A Vacation with Pay will be granted to employees in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act governing Vacations with Pay and amendments thereto, except that vacation pay for employees with less than one (1)year’s service will be calculated in accordance with Section 34 of such Act.
b)	Employees with one to two years’ service will receive two (2) weeks vacation with vacation pay calculated at five percent (5%) of the employee’s total earnings.
Section 2 - Two Years’ Service
a)	The Company further agrees to grant all employees with two (2) or more years of continuous service three (3) weeks vacation based on seven percent (7%) of total earnings.
b)	The third week of vacation as in (a) above does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in the above Section but at a time convenient to the Company.
42
ARTICLE 15 - locations with Pay (cont’d.)
Section 3 - Seven Years’ Service
a)	An employee with seven (7) or more years’ continuous service shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay based on nine percent (9%) of total earnings.
b)	The additional one week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Section 1 and
2 herein.
Section 4 - Fifteen Years’ Service
a) An employee with fifteen (15) or more years’ of continuous service shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay based on eleven percent (11%) of total earnings.
The additional one week will be taken when convenient for
the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the
vacation period provided for in Sections 1,2 and 3.
Section 5 - Twenty-Four Years’ Service
a)	An employee with twenty-four (24) or more years’ of continuous service shall receive six (6) weeks vacation with pay based on thirteen percent (13%)of total earnings.
b)	The additional one week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1,2,3 and 4.
Section 6 - Thirty Years’ Service
a) An employee with thirty (30) or more years’ of continuous service shall receive seven (7) weeks vacation with pay based on fifteen percent (15%)of total earnings.
43
ARTICLE 15- Vaca&onswith Pay (coat'd.)
b) The additional one week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1,2,3,4 and 5.
Section 7 -Vacation Scheduling
Vacations for Union employees shall be taken at such time as is mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Company, when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired. Date or dates for annual vacations will be posted two (2) months in advance, if possible, or not less than one (1) month in advance.
Employees shall have the following options and will make their wishes known on the forms supplied:
a)	Receivingvacation pay at the time vacations are taken.
b)	Receiving vacation pay in a lump sum and taking earned time off during the vacation year.
Section 8 - Time Included for Vacation Entitlement
The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations with pay for an employee after one (1)year of continuous employment:
a)	Absence on Workers’ Compensation up to a period of one (1)year, provided the employee returns to his employment.
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1)year, provided the employee returns to his employment. The employer shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
44
ARTICLE 16- Safety and Occupational Health
ARTICLE, 16 - SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
Section 1 - Principles
a)	The Company and the employees will cooperate to assure safe working methods and conditions and devise plans for furtherance of safety measures.
b)	The Company and the employees agree to comply with the Occupational Health and Safety Act Regulations, and to carry out instructions as directed from time to time by representatives of the Board in the furtherance of safety measures.
c)	The employees andJoint Health & Safety Committee members are expected to immediately report any unsafe conditions to Management.
Section 2 - Joint Health & Safety Committee
a)	The Company shall maintain a Joint Health and Safety Committee consisting of not more than twelve (12) members not less than four (4) members.
b)	Members of the Committee shall be designated and shall consist of an equal number of representatives of the Company and the Union. Union representatives shall be regular employees in the operation with at least one (1) year’s experience.
c)	The general duties of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be governed by the rules and regulations laid down from time to time under the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Joint Health and Safety Committee meetings shall be held 45
ARTICLE 16- Safely and OccupationalHealth (cont’d.)
during working hours where possible. Employees’ time will not be deducted for attending such meetings or investigations into accidents.
Section 3 - Compensation
committee meetings held outside regular working hours will be paid at employees’ regular straight-time hourly rate.
Section 4 - Fatal Accident
a)	In the case of a fatal accident, the Accident Prevention Committee in the operation shall, within forty-eight
(48)hours conduct an investigation and report its findings to the parties.
b)	Any or all employees working in the immediate area when a fatal accident has occurred may, without loss of pay, refrain from working the balance of the shift.
ARTICLE 17 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Either party to this Agreement may initiate a grievance for an alleged violation of the Collective Agreement.
Section 1 - Committee
The Union shall select a maximum of four (4) employees to serve as a Grievance Committee, names of whom shall be supplied to the Company.
Section 2 - Procedure
The Company and the Union mutually agree that when a grievance arises in the plant coming under the terms of this Agreement, it shall be taken up in the following manner:
Step 1 The individual employee involved, with the Shop Steward shall first take up the matter with theforeman directly in charge of the tooth within fourteen
46
(14)	time when the employee has
know	reasonably be presumed to have
knowledge <£ such event or events giving rise to the grievance.
step 2	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it
shall be referred to the Local Unionand Management.
step 3 If the grievance is not then satisfactorily resolved, it
Step 4 If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by Arbitration as setforth in Article 18.
On mutual agreement of all parties, any step of the grievance procedure can be waived and time limits as specified in this procedure may be extended. Such agreements will be in writing.
Section 3 -Abandonment
If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage under Steps 1, 2, 3 or 4 within fourteen (14) days after completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. When the grieving party is unable to observe the specified time limit by reason of the absence of the grievor from the plant for causes beyond his control, the said time limit shall not apply, but the grievor shall be bound to proceed in such case as quickly as possible.
47
ARTICLE 18-Arbitration	0
ARTICLE 18 -ARBITRATION Section 1 - Principles
In case of any dispute arising regarding the application of this Agreement, which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves as provided for under the Grievance Procedure Article 17, the matter shall be determined by arbitration in the following manner:
a)	Either Party map notify the other Party in writing by registered mail of the question arbitrated. In addition, such notification shall include a list of names of people who may be acceptable to both parties to act as a single arbitrator to hear the issue or issues. After receiving such notice, the other party shall within five (5) working days notify the other part)' of acceptance of one of the names, or reject all of the names proposed by the first party. If the parties fail to agree on a single arbitrator, they shall forthwith request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Alberta to appoint an arbitrator.
b)	No one shall serve as a member of an Arbitration Board who:
i,	either directly or indirectly has an interest in the subject of the Arbitration,
ii,	has participated in the grievance procedure preceding the Arbitration,
iii,	is or has been within the period of six (6) months preceding the initiation of the Arbitration, been employed by the employees’ Union or a Company directly engaged in the forest products industry
48
ARTICLE 18-Arbitration (cant’d.)
c)	The decision of the Arbitration Board shall be by majority vote and shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Parts.
d)	If any Arbitration Board finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employee shall be reinstated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this Agreement provided always that if it is shown to the Board that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period during the discharge (or suspension) and reinstatement, or date of failure
to rehire and rehiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages payable by the Company pursuant to this section.
Section 2 - Expenses
The Parties of the First and Second parts will each bear the expense and charges of its representatives on any Arbitration Board, and shall bear in equal portions the expenses and allowances of the Chairman, and stenographic and secretarial expense, and rent.
Section 3 - Location
Any arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held at the City of Grande Prairie or at such other place as may be decided by the Board.
ARTICLE 19 - III AI TII AND WELFARE
The following coverage will be provided
a)	Participation in the plan is to be a condition of employment for new employees.
49
ARTICLE 19-Healthand Welfare (cant’d.)
b)	Group Life Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
March 1, 2002	$90,000
March 1, 2003	$100,000
c)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
March 1,2002	$90,000
March 1,2003	$100,000
d)	Weekly Indemnity for each qualified employee:
Effective March 1, 1999: $475.00 per week.
Effective March 1, 1995, a "NoDowns” provision will be introduced so the four hundred forty-eight dollars ($448.00) per week benefit will not be reduced by further reductions ty U.I.C, of the maximum insurable earnings number.
e)	Employees will be covered ty Extended Health Benefits in accordance with the Canfor Benefit Program booklet.
f)	Premium cost of providing coverage under this Article will be borne by the Company.
g)	The parties agree to extend the existing Extended Health Benefits Plan to incorporate a medical travel allowance for necessary medical travel when members or their dependents are referred by their attending physician to medical specialistsin Alberta and such referrals require travel from the patient’s community of employment in excess of 500km on a round trip basis.
50
ARTICLE 19-Health and Welfare (cant’d.)
1)	The Medical Travel allowance provision will be effective March 1, 2001 and effective for the term of
the agreement. The maximum allowance payable on behalf of any member or dependent is eight hundred dollars ($800.00) over the term of the Agreement.
This benefit will extend to Long Term Disability recipients.
2)	Eligible expenses will include bills for regularly-sched-ule economy class air fares, hotel accommodation and taxi fares.
3)	Travel by private automobile will be paid at thirty cents ($.30) per kilometer.
4)	All medical referrals will be in writing and travel must take place within two (2) months of the physician’s referral, unless the earliest possible date of availability of the specialist is beyond two (2) months from the referral.
5)	Entitlement to hotel expenses will be based on the reasonableness of the member or dependent being unable to return home on the day of the referral.
6)	A claim form with receipts must be filed by the member within ninety (90) days of the date eligible expenses are incurred.
7)	Expenses that are payable under the Workers’ Compensation Act or any other government authority or insurance plan will not be eligible for reimbursement from this provision.
5]
ARTICLE 20 - Long Term Disablility
ARTICLE 20 - LONG TERM DISABILITY
A Long Term Disability Plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
The Plan to be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis.
Benefits to continue to age sixty (60).
The Plan will provide, after 52 weeks of disability, a benefit of 50% of gross month earnings to a maximum of:
March 1,2002	$2100
March 1, 2003	$2200
for all new and existing claimants.
ARTICLE 21 - DENTAL PLAN
Dental Plan will be provided, based on the following general principles:
a)	Basic dental services (Plan A) - Plan pays eighty percent (80%)of approved Alberta Schedule.
b)	Prostheticscrowns and bridges (PlanB) - Plan pays sixty percent (60%)of approved Alberta schedule of fees.
c)	Orthodontic (Plan C) - Plan pays sixty percent (60%)of approved Alberta schedule of fees (lifetime maximum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00)). Effective September 1, 1999, lifetime maximum of dependent children will be raised to three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
52
ARTICLE21 -Dental Han (cant’d.)
d)	Premium cost for providing coverage under this Article
will be borne by the Company.
e)	Eligibility shall be the first of the month following the date of completion of the probationary period.
f)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment.
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE FAMILY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Management and Union have established an Employee Family Assistance Program (E.F.A.P.) committee, comprised of equal representation from Union and Management.
The intent of this program is to provide a supportive, qualified and confidential E.F.A.P. for all who choose to use its services. Either party may request amendments to, or a review of and/or renewed commitment to the employee Family Assistance Program at any time.
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY EQUIPMENT
a) The Company shall replace the following equipment at no cost to the employee when those articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair and when they are required by the Company or the Occupation Health and Safety Act.
1)	Aprons
2)	Hard Hats and Liners
3)	Eye, Ear and Nose protective equipment
4)	Safety Pants (yard buckers)
53
ARTICLE23 - Safety Equipment (cant’d.)
b)	Where the Company has been supplying safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effectivedate of this Agreement, it will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
c)	The Company will provide aprons as required at no charge to Stacker, Resaw and Reman operators.
d)	Rain suits will be provided as required for employees working on hydraulics or water lines.
e)	EffectiveMarch 1,1999, employeeswill be reimbursed up to one hundred ten dollars ($110.00) per
year upon presentation of a receipt for C.S.A. approved safety-toed footwear.
EffectiveMarch 1, 2000, employeeswill be reimbursed up to one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00) per year upon presentation of a receipt for C.S.A. approved safety-toed footwear.
f)	The Company will provide one (1) only pair of safety prescription eyewear per employee at Company expense provided that the lenses and frames meet current C.S A standards for safety eyewear.
g)	Gloves will be supplied at no cost to the employee and will be replaced at no cost when the old pair is presented worn or damaged; otherwise, replacement will be at the expense of the employee.
54
ARTICLE 24 - Pension Plan
ARTICLE 24 - PENSION PLAN
The Company agrees to actuarially fund the Pension Plan in accordance with the provisions of Supplement #2 attached
to this Agreement. It is further agreed that pension contributions will be placed in trust.
The Company agrees to provide a one-time contribution to the Pension Plan of forty-four ($.44) per hour on October 1, 1995. The contribution will be based on the total pensionable hours worked by employees during the 1994 calendar year.
ARTICLE 25 - APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT
Subject to the provisions of the Apprenticeship Act, the Government of the Province of Alberta, and the regulations made pursuant thereto respecting the following trades:
Electrician
Motor Mechanic
Heavy Duty Mechanic
Millwright
Welder
Machinist
It is agreed as follows:
Training time for apprentices shall be in accordance with the scheduling for each trade as specified by the Apprenticeship Act as listed herein.
55
ARTICLE 25 - Apprenticeship Agreement (cant’d.)
TVade	Length of Apprenticehip	At Vocational School
Electrician	4 years	1“ year - 8 weeks 2"d year - 8 weeks 3lrf year - 8 weeks 4th year - 12 weeks
Motor Mechanic	4 years	l" year - 8 weeks 2ml year - 8 weeks 3,d year - 8 weeks 4th year - 8 weeks
Heavy Duty Mechanic	4 years	l!l year - 8 weeks 2"d year - 8 weeks 3rd year - 8 weeks 4,h year - 8 weeks
Millwright	4 years	1“ year - 8 weeks 2 ' year - 8 weeks 3rd year - 8 weeks 4lh year - 8 weeks
Welder	3 years	1“ year - 6 weeks 2"d year - 6 weeks 3"' year - 8 weeks
Machinist	4 years	1“ year - 8 weeks 2“d year - 8 weeks 3rd year - 8 weeks 4,h year - 8 weeks
Section 1 -Wage Rates for Apprentices
Wage rates for apprentices (who pass required tests) shall not be less than the percentage of the prevailing wages of Journeyman as specified for each trade by the Apprenticeship and Industry Training Act with respect to the trade. (Journeymen's rates are set forth in Wage Supplement#! to
56
ARTICLE 25 - Apprenticeship Agreement (cant’d.)
the Collective Agreement between the parties.)
Section 2 - Expenses
The Company shall pay apprentices while attending vocational school the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Since persons shall receive the wages less the sum paid to them by the appropriate government authorities, married persons shall receive their wages less the sum paid to single persons by the appropriate government authorities. The provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to apprentices in this program
Section 3 - Selection of Apprentices
When the Company requires Apprentices for any of the above-named trades, the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article 11 of the Collective Agreement.
Section 4 - Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned for a three-month probationary period prior to being apprentices.
Section 5 - Right to Continue
Once started in the Apprenticeship Program subject, however, to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he passes all the prescribed tests and work is available for him.
Section 6 - Tests
In the event the Apprentice fails to pass the required tests, he will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second test in any period during his term as an apprentice, he shall be
57
ARTICLE25-ApprenticeshipAgreement (cant’d.)
required to withdraw from the program. It is understood, however, that he will continue to be employed in whatever job is available for him in the operation.
Section 7 - Tools
a)	Journeyman-All Journeymen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for Journeyman rates unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform thejob for which they are hired.
b)	Apprentices -All Apprentices shall be required to have and maintain a tool kit to perform thej ob for which they are hired.
ARTICLE 26 - TOOL INSURANCE
a)	The Company at its own expense shall insure for damage or loss caused by fire or flood, the tools of its employees which are required in the performance of their work. This provision for tool insurance shall also apply to loss by theft where tools are stored in
a designated secure place supplied by the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. In the event of flood or theft, the insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of fifty dollars ($50.00) in respect of each employee’s claim. In order to be eligible for loss, an employee must have supplied the Company with a written list of tools required in the performance of work and stored with the Company.
b)	The Company will repair or replace those Trademens’ and Apprentices’ tools that are damaged, broken or lost in the performance of regular duties with tools that are of equal or better quality whenever possible.
58
ARTICLE26 - Tool Insurance (cant’d.)
c)	The Company agrees that it will replace or repair those Apprentices’ tools that are damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties.
d)	The Company will make available for use tools required upon the introduction of the metric system.
ARTICLE 27 - CONTRACTING OUT
a)	It is not the intent of the Company to replace regular employees by the use of contractors or sub-contractors.
b)	Work normally performed by regular employees will continue to be performed by them, except when justified by special circumstances. Meetings will be held with the Union Executive to discuss instances of special circumstances when they arise.
b) New construction, major renovations/rebuilds and overload maintenance are exempted from the above.
ARTICLE 28 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1 - Letters of Understanding & Supplements
It is agreed that Memoranda of Agreement such as “Pension Plan”, “SeasonalJob Posting Policy”, “Sawmill and Planer Utility Positions”, “Compressed Work Week Schedule - Maintenance”,Alternate Employment” and other attachments shall form part of this Agreement, except where they have been modified by the parties or substituted by other provisions in this Agreement.
Section 2 - Coveralls
The Company will make available and maintain three (3) pairs of coveralls for use on Company property to regular
59
employees in the following categories:
Tradesmen Apprentices Trade Utility
Truck Drivers Oilers
Kiln Attendants Planerman (Maintenance) Cleanup
Crowder Feeders
Mill Handyman Crane Operators Glue Mixers
Coveralls will be made available and provided upon request to all employees working in abnormally dirty areas.
Section 3 - Medical Examinations
The Company shall pay for all employee medical examinations not covered by Alberta Medicare, if such medical examination is a prerequisite for thej ob of that employee or a prerequisite of the licensing requirements of thej ob of that employee.
Section 4 - Bulletin Boards
The Company shall supply adequately enclosed official bulletin boards for the use of the Union in posting of officially signed bulletins.
Section 5 -Alternate Employment
1.	Whenever and wherever possible, the Company will provide alternate employment for workers injured on or off thejob.
2.	The alternate employment must be suitable for the worker, his injury and where necessary coordinated with the worker's physician.
3.	Such employment will be on a short-term basis.
60
ARTICLE 28- General Eamskns {cant'd.)
4.	In some cases workers will be required to changejobs to accommodate an injured worker. Workers required to changejobs will be paid their regular, or the new job rate, whichever is higher. No one will be laid off to accommodate the injured worker.
5.	Any alternate employment must be productive.
6.	The pay rate for such alternate employment will be at the worker’s regularjob rate or the alternatejob rate, whichever is higher.
7.	Any alternate employment will be on a voluntary basis; the Company, however, does not promise there will be alternate employment available.
8.	Any workers on alternate employment must be made aware of any operating conditions such as help available and safe work instructions for thejob they are performing.
Section 6 - Disability Management Committee
That the CEP National Representative and the Peace/ Alberta Human Resources Manager will coordinate the development of a Disability Management Program based on NIDMAR or the principles ofNIDMAR.
Section 7 -Job Evaluations
The Company and the Union willjointly developj ob descriptions for die purpose of job evaluation. Job evaluations to be done on these jobs during the term of the Agreement based on a jointly agreed uponj ob evaluation program.
61
ARTICLE 29 - Permanent Plant Closure
ARTICLE 29 - PERMANENT PLANT CLOSURE
In the event of a permanent plant closure of the Company’s operation in Grande Prairie, the employees shall be entitled to severance pay equal to seven (7) days’ pay for each year of continuous service provided the employees involved have not been offered employment by the Company in another manufacturing operation of the Company in the Grande Prairie area.
In the event the plant is relocated within a radius of eighty (80) kilometres and the employees involved are not required to relocate their place of residence and are not terminated by the Company as a result of the plant relocation, they shall not be entitled to severance pay.
ARTICLE 30 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Section 1 -Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the Plant Committee and the Union not less than three (3) months in advance of intent to institute material changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or layoff of employees.
Section 2 - Severance Pay
Employees discharged or laid off directly because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of one (1)week’s pay for each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks’ pay.
62
ARTICLE30- TechnologicalChatige (cant’d.)
Section 3 - Rate Adjustment
Where the Company has exercised its right to eliminate ajob or jobs through automation cr the installation of new equipment, the employees affected shall have the right to exercise their seniority in accordance with the seniority provisions of the Agreement, and such employees’rate of pay shall be red circled for a period of three (3) months, and for a further period of three (3) months, the employee will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his regularjob at the time of the setback the rate of his new regularjob. At the end of this six (6) month period, the rate of his new regular j ob will apply.
ARTICLE 31 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
The parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective on and after the Is' day of March, 2001, to and including the last day of February, A.D. 2004 and thereafter from year to year, unless sixty (60) days’ written notice to commence collective bargaining for amendments is given by either Party. The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the office of the Company, and the Local Office of the Union at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiry date of the Agreement.
If no agreement is reached at the expiration of this Agreement, and notice to commence collective bargaining has been served, the existing Agreement shall remain in effect until a new Agreement is reached or until thirty (30) days after the Minister notifies the parties of the recommendations of the Disputes Inquiry Board under the Alberta Labour Act, and to continue thereafter until discontinued in writing by either Party.
63
Dated this__£-4*77/_____day of___
A.D. 2()<J2-
Canadian Forest Products Ltd, Grande Prairie Operations
Communications, Energy, and Paperworkers Union, Local 446
64
SUPPLEMENT#!
WAGE SCHEDULE
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD, GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS
Group 1 Cleanup FJ Cleanup Warehouse
Group 2
Strip Attendant
Serviceman
Group 3
Paperwrap Attendant Group 4
J-Bar Attendant SM J-Bar Attendant PM Chip Classifier/Cleanup
Group 5
Tilt Hoist Op/Trimmer UnscramblerOperator Firewatch/Cleanup Trimblock Attendant
Group 6 Band Resaw PM
Mar 1/01 Mar 1/02
21.075	21.495
21.075	21.495
21.075	21.495
21.155	21.580
21.155	21.580
21.255	21.680
21.420	21.850
21.420	21.850
21.420	21.850
21.520	21.950
21.520	21.950
21.520	21.950
21.520	21.950
21.705	22.140
Mar 1/03
21.925
21.925
21.925
22.010
22.010
22.115
22.285
22.285
22.285
22.390
22.390
22.390
22.390
22.585
65
Group 7 Nil
Marl/OX	Mar 1/02 Mar 1/03
21.830	22.265	22.710
Group 8 Planer Feeder Weigh Scale Operator Strapper/Endpress Fingerjointl
22.065	22.505
22.065	22.505
22.065	22.505
22.065	22.505
22.955
22.955
22.955
22.955
Group 9
Stacker Operator SM Stacker Operator PM
22.245	22.690	23.145
22.245	22.690	23.145
Group 10
Trimmer Optimizer	22.440	22.890
Reman Edger Optimizer	22.440	22.890
23.350
23.350
Group 11
Fingeijoint Utility	22.655	23.110	23.570
Group 12
Cutoff Saw Operator ForkliftOp ■ Shipping Forklift Op - PM Outfeed ForkliftOp - SM Outfeed ForkliftOp - PM Infeed Planer Utility Lumber Yard Cleanup
22.900	23.360
22.900	23.360
22.900	23.360
22.900	23.360
22.900	23.360
22.900	23.360
22.900	23.360
23.825
23.825
23.825
23.825
23.825
23.825
23.825
Group 13
Merchandiser Operator	23.115
Debarker Operator	23.115
Sawmill Utility	23.115
23.575	24.045
23.575	24.045
23.5775	24,045
Group 14
20” CNS Operator	23.340
Single Band Resaw SM	23.340
Kiln Forklift Operator	23.340
66
23.805
23.805
23.805
24.280
24.280
24.280
Mar 1/Q1 Mar 1/02 Mar 1/03
Group 15
Log Scaler	23.595	24.065	24.545
Group 16
Log Loader/980 Operator	23,880
28”CNS Operator	23.880
Log Yard Cleanup	23.880
24.360
24.360
24.360
24.845
24.845
24.845
Group 17
Nil	24.115	24.595	25.085
Group 18
Nil	24.380	24.870	25.365
Group 19
Nil
Group 20
Nil
24,675	25.170	25.675
24.910	25.410	25.920
Group 21
Quality Control Assistant	25,175	25.680
Planer Grader/Trimmer	25.175	25,680
FingerjointGrader/Stacker	25,175	25.680
26.195
26.195
26.195
Group 22
Portal Crane Operator	25.470	25.980	26.500
MISCELLANEOUS
Mill Handyman Oiler
26.875	27.415	27.965
22.900	23.360	23.825
MAINTENANCE Electrician - Certified Electrician Apprentice - 4th year
27,445
26.905
24.960
27.995
27,445
25.460
28.555
27.995
25.970
67
Apprentice - 3rd year Apprentice - 2nd year Apprentice - lstyear
Mechanic - Certified Mechanic
Apprentice - 4th year Apprentice - 3rd year Apprentice - 2nd year Apprentice - lstyear
Millwright- Certified Millwright
Apprentice - 4th year Apprentice - 3rd pear Apprentice - 2nd year Apprentice - lstyear
Welder- B Pressure Ticket Welder - Certified Welder
Apprentice - 3rd year Apprentice - 2nd year Apprentice - lstyear
Partsman (with ticket) Partsman
Apprentice - 3rd pear Apprentice - 2nd year Apprentice - lstyear
Sawfiler - Certified Sawfiler
Apprentice - 4th year Apprentice - 3rd pear Apprentice - 2nd year Apprentice - lstyear
Mar 1/01 Mar 1/02
23.220	23.685
22.655	23.110
22.355	22.800
27.445	27.995
26.905	27.445
24.960	25.460
23.220	23.685
22.655	23.110
22.365	22.800
27.445	27.995
26.905	27,445
24.960	25.460
23.220	23.685
22.655	23.110
22.355	22.800
27.255	27.800
27.205	27.750
26.670	27.205
24.960	25.460
23.220	23.685
22.355	22.800
27.205	27.750
26.670	27.205
24.960	25.460
23.225	23.690
22.355	22.800
27.445	27.995
26.905	27.445
24.960	25.460
23.220	23.685
22.655	23,110
22.355	22.800
68
Mar 1/03
24.160
23.570
23.255
28.555
27.995
25.970
24.160
23.570
23.255
28.555
27.995
25.970
24.160
23.570
23.255
28.355
28.305
27.750
25.970
24.160
23.255
28.305
27.750
25.970 24.165
23.255
28.555
27.995
25.970 24.160 23.570
23.255
Machinist- Certified Machinist
Apprentice - 4th year Apprentice - 3rd year Apprentice - 2nd year Apprentice - lstyear
Mar I/O!
27.445
26.905
24.960
23.220
22.655
22.355
Mar 1/02
27.995
27,445
25.460
23.685
23.110
22.800
Mar 1/03
28.555
27.995
25.970
24.160
23.570
23.255
Grindennan Trade Utility #1 Trade Utility #2 Crane Maintenance
23.825
23.825 23.270 27.210
24.300
24.300 23.735
27.755
24.785
24.785 24.210 28.310
Welder/Millwright
27,445	27.995	28.555
Chargehand: Job rate plus 22 cents ($.22) per hour
69
SUPPLEMENT #2
ARTICLE 24 - PENSION PLAN
BETWEEN CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. Grande Prairie Operations
AND!	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA,
Local 446
The parties agree that the following guidelines will be used
in the administration of the Pension Plan.
1.	All employee members of the Union will be members of the Plan subject to provision 5 below.
2.	The parties agree that effective the first day of March, 2002, the benefit levels shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per month for each year of past service for eligible employees. Those employees who retire between March 1,
2001 and February 28, 2002 will have their pension benefit level increased to this level effective March 1, 2002.
Effective March 1, 2002, employees will commence contributing thirty cents ($.30) per hour to the pension plan. The contribution hours will be in accordance with Supplement #2, item 9, of the Collective Agreement.
3.	Effective March 1, 2002, the Company agrees to a Pension Bridge cf seventeen dollars ($17.00) per month per year of service for any employee retiring on or after their fifty-fifth (55,h) birthday, to be paid at age sixty
E. & O. E.
70
(60) or upon retirement if after the age of sixty (60)
and to continue until age sixty-five (65). Those employees who retire between March 1, 2001 and February 28,
2002 will have their Pension Bridge increased to this level effective March 1, 2002.
This section will apply to anyone retiring after March
1, 2001.
4.	Normal retirement shall be at the age of sixty five (65) years.
5.	A vested employee member may elect early retirement with no reduction in earned pension after he/she has passed his/her sixtieth (60th) birthday. A vested employee member may elect early retirement with an actuarially reduced pension after he/she has passed his/her fifty-fifth (55th) birthday.
6.	Subject to provision 8 below, an employee will be vested when he/she has two (2) years of continuous service or in accordance with the Province of Alberta legislated requirements, whichever is less.
7.	For the purpose of this plan, service is considered to
be continuous until a member fails to work six hundred forty (640) hours in two (2) consecutive calendar years. Banked hours will not extend continuous service.
8.	If an employee who is vested has a break in service prior to retirement, that employee will receive a deferred vested pension when that employee retires. The pension will be based on the employee’s service before
E. & O. E.
71
the break in service and at the benefit levels in effect at the time of the employee’s break in service.
If that employee should later return to employment with the Company, that employee will also receive credit for all service after the break. The amount of pension that the employee will receive will be based on the rate in effect each time that there was a break in service.
9,	To receive a full year’s credit, an employee must accumulate fifteen hundred (1,500) pensionable hours in a calendar year. Pensionable hours shall include:
(a)	Worked hours, including overtime hours. Overtime hours are credited at straight time.
(b)	Firefighting hours up to a maximum of eight (8) hours in a day and for (40) in a week.
(c)	Apprenticeship hours spent attending school on an apprenticeship program.
(d)	Short shifts. Employees who, because of their work schedule, work less than eight (8) hours per day but are paid eight (8) hours per day shall be credited eight (8) hours per day.
In any year where an employee accumulates more than fifteen hundred (1,500) pensionable hours as described in parts (a), (b), (c) and (d) above, hours in excess of fifteen hundred (1,500) will be banked. In years in which an employee does not work fifteen hundred (1,500) hours, the banked hours may be used to bring the total hours worked during that year up to fifteen hundred (1,500)
E. &0. E.
72
hours. Banked hours will also be used when an employee retires if he has not accumulated fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in his last year of work. Banked hours cannot be used to delay a break in service.
The following shall also be considered as pensionable hours. These hours may not be banked, but may be used when an employee has used all ef his/her banked hours.
a)	Layoffs. If a full-time employee is laid off for one (1) or more full weeks, he/she will receive forty (40) hours credit for each week up to a maximum of two hundred (200) hours per year.
b)	Illness or Injury. If an employee is in receipt of wage loss benefits from the Workers’ Compensation Board or Weekly Indemnity benefits for a disability that occurred off thejob, he/she will receive a credit of (8) hours
for each day he/she receives benefits. The maximum credit shall be fifteen hundred (1,500) hours per year.
c)	Total and Permanent Disability. If an employee is totally and permanently disabled, he/she will be credited with one hundred twenty-five (125) pensionable hours per month upon providing proof of the disability. These credits will continue until the employee recovers or begins to receive a pension, whichever happens first. If an employee is disabled and cannot continue to work at the Grande Prairie lumber mill but is capable of working elsewhere, he/she will not receive any further pension credits after his/her Workers’ Compensation or Long Term Disability Benefits stop.
d)	Vacation. If an employee is eligible for more than five E. & O. E.
73
(5) weeks annual vacation, he/she will receive forty (40) hours credit for each week after the fifth (5lh) week.
10.	The following shall apply to those plan members who made contributions to the plan at its inception.
a)	If a participant’s employment is terminated with the Company prior to the employee’s retirement date, the employee will be entitled to a refund of his/her contributions with interest in accordance with the established interest tables of the plan. If the employee has completed five (5) or more years of credited service with the Company, he/she may elect to leave his/her contributions in the plan and receive on his/her normal retirement date under the plan a deferred pension in accordance with the pension benefit levels in effect at the time of the employee’s termination.
11.	All other requirements of the administration of the plan will be determined in accordance with the applicable pension legislation of the Province of Alberta or the Government of Canada.
12.	The Company will provide each plan member with a statement of the employee’s standing within the plan once each year. This statement shall include a record of the hours accumulated during the past year and a summary of credits from previous years.
13.	The Parties agree that this supplement replaces all previous Letters of Understanding regarding the Pension Plan and that all previous Letters of Understanding regarding the Pension Plan are hereby cancelled.
E. & O. E.
74
14.	The Company and the Union agree to establish ajoint Committee to explore, during the term c£ this Agreement, alternate pension systems or changes to the plan that may include employee contributions.
15.	That four (4) employees who retire during the course of this Agreement, will receive a pension benefit level of forty-two ($42.00)p er month per year of service, unless as a result of agreed too pension amendments resulting from the Pension Plan Joint Committee review, the level is above the forty-twodollars ($42.00), then they would receive that level of benefit.
Dated this _ Z<T// day of	,
A.D. 20^2.
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Grande Prairie Operations
Communications, Energy, and Paperworkers Union, Local 446
E. & O. E.
75
SUPPLEMENT #3
SAWMILL AND PLANER UTILITY POSITIONS
BETWEEN CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD, Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446
The following terms and conditions will apply to the positions of Sawmill Utility and Planer Utility in regards to the starting wage group and the manner in which successful applicants must progress through the multiple positions involved:
1.	SAWMILL UTILITY
a)	Starting rate is based on the Debarker group. If the Debarker group should change the Sawmill Utility starting rate would change accordingly.
b)	Within three months the successful applicant must have qualified for the following key Sawmill positions:
-	Trimmer
-	Bin Sorter
-	Stacker
-	Board Edger
-	Debarker
-	Resaw
-	20” Chip-N-Saw
E. &0. E.
76
Qualifications for other positions may be pursued over an indefinite period of time, but are not required to continue in the Sawmill Utility position.
c)	Qualifrcationfor jobs with a higher group than the Debarker will not be recognized until all lower group jobs have been learned. As soon as qualification is achieved for lower groupjobs training will begin on higher groupjobs.
c)	As qualification for higher groupjobs is achieved the higher group will become the full time pay rate for this individual in the Sawmill Utilityjob. Qualification in positions such as Merchandiser, Cutoff Saw, and 28” CNS will be recognized in pay rate even though these qualifications are not required to qualify for the Utility position.
d)	Positions not considered part of the Sawmill Utilityjob;
-	Crane Operator
-	980 Operator.
1.	PLANERUTILITY
a) Starting group rate, and the highest group available for the Planer Utility position will be consistent with the forkliftpositions,currentlyGroup#12. If the group for the planer infeed forklift or outfeed forklift should change then the Planer utility group rate would change accordingly.
E. & O. E.
77
b)	Within three months the successful applicant would be required to train and qualify for the following positions:
-	Tilt Hoist
-	Bin Attendant
-	Planer Stacker
-	Bander
-	Planer Outfeed
c)	Positions not considered part of the Planer Utility position:
-	Kiln Attendant
-	Lumber Grader
I.	GENERALNOTES
a) If an operator in either the Sawmill Utility or Planer Utility positions is required to work in a capacity which has a higher group than that which is recognized in the Utility position, then the higher group would be paid only for the duration of such work.
a) If during the initial three month training period an individual is unable to qualify for a position which is required in the Utilityjob then that individual would return to his/her previously held bidjob.
E. & O. E.
78
Canadian Forest Products Ltd, Grande Prairie Operations
Communications, Energy, and Paperworkers Union, Local 446
E. & O. E.
79
SUPPLEMENT#4
COMPRESSED WORKWEEK SCHEDULE -MAINTENANCE
BETWEEN CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERSUNION OF CANADA, local 446
1.	PREAMBLE
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide a weekend maintenance shift that will allow the Company to perform maintenance during periods when the production facility is not operating
Except and unless specifically varied herein, all of the terms and conditions of the 1992 Collective Agreement between the parties shall apply.
The parties agree that the implementation and continued operation of this schedule will not result in any reduction of the present maintenance workforce.
2.	HOURS OF WORK
The established hours of work shall be:
Friday: Eight and one-half (81/2) hours - 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
Eight and one-half (81/2) hours paid at ten (10)
E. & O. E.
80
hours straight time.
Saturday Twelve (12) hours - 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Twelve (12) hours paid at straight time rate.
Sunday
Twelve (12) hours - 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Twelve (12) hours paid at rate and one-half.
2.	OVERTIME
Rate and one-half shall be paid for any hours worked in excess of eight and one-half (81/2) hours per day on Friday.
Double straight time rates shall be paid for any hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day on Friday.
Double straight time rates shall be paid for any hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per day on Saturday or Sunday.
3.	OVERTIMEMEALS
Overtime meals shall be provided when required in accordance vAth Article 8, Section 10 of the Collective Agreement.
4.	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
All hours worked are considered as Day Shift if scheduled between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
All hours worked outside the recognized Day Shift will be considered as the Second or Third Shifts, and the premium rate of thirty-one cents ($.31) per hour will be paid for all such hours.
E. & O. E.
81
5.	LUNCH PERIODS
Lunch periods shall be of one-half (1/2) hour duration and shall be taken at a time suitable to the employee and the Company.
6.	RESTPERIODS
There shall be two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods on Friday and three (3) ten (10) minute rest periods on Saturday and Sunday, to be taken at a time suitable to the employee and the Company.
7.	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
In the event that a Statutory Floliday falls on a scheduled work day, it may be moved to the Friday as selected by the employee. The employee shall receive eight (8) hours pay for his regular hours of work missed due to the Statutory Holiday.
In the event that a Statutory Holiday falls on an employee’s scheduled day oEE, he shall be paid eight (8) hours at his regular straight-time rate of pa)' or shall have the option of taking a scheduled work day off in lieu paid at eight (8) hours straight time pay.
In the event an employee is called in to work on his designated Statutory, Floating or Personal Floating Holiday, he shall be paid at the premium rates in accordance with the Collective Agreement for all hours worked on that day.
8.	VACATIONS WITH PAY
Vacation pay shall be calculated as per the Collective Agreement.
E. & O. E.
82
An employee who is scheduled to work in any week and who is on vacation shall be treated as having taken one (1) week’s vacation entitlement for each one (1) week’s scheduled work.
9.	HEALTH AND WELFARE, MEDICAL, DENTAL, ETC.
An employee who is scheduled to work under this schedule shall continue to be classified as a regular, full-time employee for all Health and Welfare, Medical, Dental, etc., eligibility purposes.
The word “day”or “days”where it appears to stipulate any period shall be considered as multiples of eight (8) hour units (i.e. one (1) day equals eight (8) hours and four (4) days equals thirty-two (32)hours.)
10.	PENSION PLAN, LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
The Company contribution to the Pension Plan and the Long Term Disability Plan for any employee who works the established hours under this schedule shall be a minimum of forty (40) hours per week or one (1 )hour for each hour or part thereof worked, whichever is greater.
The employee who works the established hours under this schedule shall contribute to the Pension Plan or the Long Term Disability Plan on the basis of forty (40)hours per week.
11.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE, BEREAVEMENT LEA. ,JURY DUTY
Leave of Absence shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement.
E. & O. E.
83
Bereavement Leave under this schedule shall be paid at the maximum of twenty-four (24) hours pay at the employee’s regular straight-time rate of pay.
Jury Dug reimbursement under this schedule shall be based on hours that otherwise would have been paid under this schedule.
12. SCHEDULING
The Company will draw up a list of all employees who would wish to work on the above schedule, and employees will be scheduled on the basis of seniority.
Employees on this list will rotate through the above schedule every four (4) months.
Employees shall have the option of adding or removing their name from this list no more than two (2) times each calendar year. When names are added to the list, they will appear after the name of the individual who was the last on the original list.
Only those trades specifically mentioned in this Agreement will utilize this schedule: Millwrights, Welders, Electricians, Oilers.
E. & O. E.
84
Dated this _ Z<T//_day of /Kj&f.CS/
A.D. 2042-
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Grande Prairie Operations
Communications, Energy, and Paperworkers Union, Local 446
E. & O. E.
85
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SEASONALJOB POSTING POLICY
BETWEEN CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERSUNION OF CANADA Local 446
In order to maintain an efficient,well-trained workforce in seasonal positions, the following criteria will be used to award seasonal bids:
1.	Seniority, competency considered.
2.	Competency to be defined as having previously held the job or having successfully completed training for that job.
Jobs currently considered as seasonal are:
1.	Scale Operator
2.	Log Scaler
3.	980 Operator (additional)
4.	Portal Crane Operator (additional)
In order to ensure reasonable opportunity for personnel to enter into the seasonaljob group, ongoing training in thesejobs will be provided. Training will be provided for a minimum of one (1)ofthe above positions per year. The
E. & O. E.
86
positions trained will depend on the anticipated needs in
future log haul seasons.
To be eligible to train for the log scaler position, trainees must have valid Alberta Forest Service log scaling qualifications. Opportunitieswill be made available to acquire AFS qualifications.
Dated this. Z<T// day of sWj&ZCS/* A.D. 2(kJ!2.
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Grande Prairie Operations
Communications, Energy, and Paperworkers Union, Local 446
E. & O. E.
87
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
ENTRY LEVEL POSITIONS
BETWEEN CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446
The parties agree that the following categories will be considered as entry level positions:
All positions in pay groups 1, 2 and 3 Sawmill J-bar - group 4 Planer J-bar - group 4 Trimblock Attendant - Group 5
Positions may be added or deleted upon mutual agreement of the parties.
88
Dated this .
A.D. 20^2-
. day of
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy, Grande Prairie Operations	and Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
89
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
JOB POSTINGS
BETWEEN CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446
Employees are eligible to hold only three bids at one time comprised of the following:
One (1) permanent bid
One (1) temporary bid or seasonal bid, and
One (1) training bid
With the exception f permanent vacancies, successful bidders will not be awarded any other job as defined in subsection (a) above until sixty (60) calendar days have elapsed from the date of saidj ob posting being awarded unless no one else has bid and been awarded thejob.
90
Dated this Z<77/ day i
A.D. 20<£z-
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Grande Prairie Operations
Communications, Energy, and Paperworkers Union, Local 446
91
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
INTERMITTENT PLANER GRAVEYARD SHIFT
BETWEEN CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446
Due to the intermittent nature of the third shift in the
planer, the followingjob posting policy will be used to
minimize disruptions in scheduling:
1.	Jobs will be posted as intermittent. When a third shift goes on in the planer, the successful bidder will automatically be placed on that shift for the duration of the bid.
2.	Jobs will be posted every six months for a six-month period (May 1-Oct 31 and Nov 1-Apr 30)
3.	Persons awarded these bids must be prepared to commit themselves to completing a scheduled run of graveyards, except for health reasons or extraordinary circumstances, in which case every effort will be made to remove the person as soon as practicable.
4.	Persons wishing to return to their previous bidjobs and go off the intermittent graveyards must give one week’s notice in writing prior to the start of a scheduled run of graveyards.
92
5.	If a scheduled run of graveyard shifts extends past the October 31 or April 30 cutoff, then the incumbent would complete that run, and the new postings would be effective upon completion.
6.	Replacements for the intermittent graveyard incumbents will be the senior competent person where possible.
7.	Employees will be eligible to hold a permanent, a temporary and an intermittent bid concurrently. Seasonal and intermittent graveyard bids may not be held concurrently.
It should be noted that there is no guarantee of any graveyard shifts, but the intermittent shift run will not exceed three (3) consecutive weeks.
This agreement shall be subject to review, amendment or termination upon thirty (30) days’ written notice by either party.
Dated this. Z<rr// day of A.D. 2002-
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy, Grande Prairie Operations and Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
VACATION RELIEF PERSONNEL
BETWEEN: CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERSUNION OF CANADA, Local 446
It is the objective of the Company and the Local Union to assist students currently on the University or Technical Program to obtain summer employment designed to:
a.	help them financially through the followingsemester
b.	where possible, give work assignments that complement in some way their educational pursuits.
It is mutually agreed that the following principles will be applied in hiring vacation relief personnel:
Consideration will be given to employees' dependents based first on avail ability from school and in the following general order, first to the casuals on weekend cleanup in the three levels of school
a.	University students
b.	Technical and Vocational school students
c.	High school students
Vacation relief will be hired as required by the company after consultation with the Local Executive in order that the vacation entitlement of hourly crews can be scheduled as far as possible within the prime period - May 1 to September 10.
94
In the event that particular circumstances warrant that a student cannot return to school, he may be considered for a permanentjob posting upon written request and fully discussing their reasons with the Personnel Coordinator and Local Union President. In the event that a Vacation Relief is retained for such permanent opening, his seniority will be dated from the day of permanent employment.
Vacation Relief personnel will be advised that they will be terminated on or before September 10, unless particular circumstances warrant review, and hiring documentation will reflect the above conditions, In the event Vacation Relief personnel were employed on the weekend casual crew during the school year, they can return with no loss of seniority.
This agreement shall be subject to review, amendment or termination upon thirty (30) days written notice by either party.
Dated this ZslV/ day of SHj&ZCS/*
.A.D. 20<J2.
.Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy, .Grande Prairie Operations and Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
96
Index
Abandonment....................4'
Accidental Death and
Dismemberment..............5(
Alternate Employment.....59, 60,63
Alternate shift schedules.....2-3
Apprentices......33, 55, 56, 57, 5£
Apprenticeship Agreement.....55, 5C
Arbitration................48, 4£
Arbitration Board..........48, 4$
Bargaining unit..........8, 28, 29
Benefits.........12,13, 37, 73, 74
Bereavement Leave..........36, 84
Call Time.....................17,	1£
Casual employees.....11 - 13, 18,2C
Casual employees.........6, 7, 12, 26
Change shifts..................21
Chargehand...................7, 8
Chargehand....................7, 8,69
Competency.......25, 27, 30, 33, 86
Completion of Shifts...........20
Compressed Work Week.......80, 81
Contracting Out................59
Cooperation....................10
Coveralls................13, 59, 60
Dental Plait..................52,	53
Designation of Shifts....20, 21, 22
Direction.....................8,9
DisabilityManagemene...........61
Discharge......................10
Discipline......................9
Double Straight-Time Rates.....20
Duration of Agreement..........63
Emergency conditions...........26
Employee Family Assistance Program........................53
Employment Categories........7, £
Entry Level Positions........88, 8S
Extended Healtl l Benefits..........5(
Extended Vacations..................3£
Fatal Accident......................46
First shift..............15,	20,	21
Floating Holiday...............41, 42,	82
Gloves..............................54
Graders.........................8, 18,	19
Grievance.......................8, 46,	4'/
Group Life Insurance................5C
Harassment...........................f
Health and Safety............45, 52
Hours of work.....................
......6,19,21,22, 37, 80,81, 82
Hours of work.......................IS
Incompetent.........................3S
Injury or Illness..................31:
Intermittent Planer Graveyard Shift.. .............................92,	93
Job classification..................14
Job Evaluations.....................61
Job Posting and T abling......,.29, 30
Job Postings........................90
Job vacancy........................32,	33
Journeyman.........................56,	58
July Duty..........................37,	84
Leave of absence.........18, 32 - 42
Log Scalers........................18,	19
Long Term Disability....50,	52, 73, 83
Lumber Graders.....................18,	19
Lunch Sc Rest Peiiods..............,23
Maternity...........................37
Meals........................23,	24
Medical Examinations................60
97
Index
Medical travel allowance..........51
Nine (9)houi's.................21,22
Notice of Cancellation...........16,	17
Notification of Absence...........23
Notification of Return to Work...24
Parental Leave....................37
Paydays...........................15
Pension Plan......55, 59, 70-75, 83
Pensionable hours.........55,	72, 73
Permanent Plant Closure...........62
Permanentvacancies........30,	31, 90
Planer Utility.......,.60, 66, 77, 78
Plant-wide basis.................32,	33
Premium Rates..............,...15,16
Priority.........................18,	33
Probation....................  24,	25
Public Office....................37,	38
Rate Protection.................  15
Recall...........................27,	28
Recognition.......................10
Reduction of Forces..............26,	27
Retention of Seniority............28
Safety equipment.................53,	54
Safety eyewear....................54
Safety-toed footwear..............54
Sawmill Utility...........66.	76.	77
Seasonal Job Postings.............86
Senior applicant.................32,	38
Senior competent bidder...........32
Seniority...12,18, 24 - 30, 63, 84, 95
S eni ority Lists.................28
S everanc e Pay...................62
Shift differential................16
Statutoiy Holiday.... 17, 20, 39,40, 82 Technological Change..............62
Tempo! ary vacancies............30
Three-Shift Operation........22,23
Tool Insurance..............58, 59
Tools...........................58
Transfer to Staff...........28, 29
Trial period................31, 32
Union Business..............35, 36
Union Executive.........22, 27,59
Union Shop...................10,11
Vacation Entitlement............44
Vacation pay.................42,43
Vacation pay............13, 82, 83
Vacation Relief.............94, 95
Vacation Scheduling.............44
Vacation with Pay...........42, 43
Voluntary Meetings...............6
Wage Schedule...................65
Wages..........11, 14,18, 49, 56, 57
Weekly Indemnity............50, 73
Welders......................18,84
98