INDEX
ARTICLE
1	Scope
2	Union Recognition
3	Employee Security
4	Management Rights
5	Employee File
6	Leave of Absence
7	Committees
8	Adjustment of Grievances
9	Arbitration
10	Discipline & Dismissal Procedure
11	Seniority
12	Demotions & Reductions
13	Increases In Staff Apprenticeship
14	Job Posting
15	Technological Change
16	Occupational Health
17	Safety & Health
18	First Aid
19	Accident Compensation
20	Tools
21	Annual Vacations
22	Statutory Holidays
23	Pay Days
24	Pension Plan
25	Hours of Work, Differentials & Overtime
26	Retirement
27	Training - Grading, Scaling &
Trade Qualification Exam
28	Electrical Outlets
29	Notice Boards
PAGE
2
4
5
6 6 6 10 11 14 16 18 21 22 24 27
30
31 33 36
36
37
38 40
43
44 46 53
53
53
53

ARTICLE
Page
30	Fire Crews
31	Classifications& Rates of Pay Sawmill Rate Schedule
T rades & Apprenticeship Rates Plywood Rate Schedule Sawmill lob Evaluation Grid Plywood Job Evaluation Grid Premiums
32	Duration of Agreement Supplement #1 - Plywood Job Evaluation Supplements - Sawmill Job Evaluation Supplements - Group Insurance Benefits Supplement#4 - Clerical
-	Rates of Pay
-	TD&I Premiums
54
54
55 58 60 63 65 67 67 69 77 85 95 106 107
AGREEMENT
Between
SASKFOR MACMILLAN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
PLYWOOD, SAWMILL/PLANER & CLERICAL DIVISIONS
hereinafter referred to as the “Company” of the first part
- and -
I.W.A. CANADA,
LOCAL 1-184
hereinafter referred to as the “Union” of the second part.
The purpose of this agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect of hours, wages, working conditions and living conditions as specified in this agreement; and to secure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy cf operations, quality and quantity cf output and protection of property. This agreement provides for fair and peaceful settlementof all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as the duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
i
ARTICLE 1 SCOPF.
1:01 This agreement shall apply to all employees employed by Saskfor MacMillan Limited Partnership in the Province of Saskatchewan except the President, General Managers, Managers, Superintendents, General Foremen, Chief Financial Officer, Controller, Assistant Controller, Human Resource Services Coordinator, Supervisors and Executive Secretaries.
1:02 The Company agrees that contractors or subcontractors certified to a trade union or contractors of subcontractors paying union dues to the I. W, A., uniformly required of members of the I. W. A., on behalf of all employees on the construction site will be used on new building construction projects or changes to current building structures at all plants of the Saskfor MacMillan Limited Partnership covered by the scope of this agreement.
1:03 (a) Contractors or subcontractors hired by the Company to do production work on site at any plant covered by the scope of this agreement for a period in excess of five days in any one month will be required topayuniondues to the I, W. A,, uniformly required of members of the I.W. A., on behalf of ail the contractors’ or subcontractors’ employees on site.
(b) In regard to sub-contracting relating to the plant collective agreement, the Company will make every effort to employ an I. W. A. contractor first and
a unionized contractor.
In regard to work in theplant, the followingis theorder of preference:
1st preference 2nd preference 3rd preference
4th preference
However, the need to manage costs is paramount and contracts for work in the plant will be awarded on the basis of competitiveness, reliability and quality of work. Specifically in the areas of carpentry, industrial mechanic, electrical and pipefitting, if an I.W.A. or anotherunion contractor fails to meet the above conditions the successful contractor(s) will pay the same union dues uniformly required of members of the I.W, A,, directly to the I.W.A.
When a contractoris selected,the Companywill advise the Plant Committee who is the successful contractor. Should there be any concern, the Company is prepared to discuss these concerns with the Plant Committee and/or Local Union.
Where a specialist is required, it is understood that same will not fall in the above categories.
1:04 If any provisions of this Agreement or any
3
Plant Personnel IWA Contractor Union Contractor other than I.W.A.
Non-union Contractor
collective agreement made in pursuance thereof, is found to be contrary to the provisions of any law, now or hereafter enacted, this Agreement will not be abrogated, but it is subject to such amendment as may be necessary to bring it into conformity with the law.
ARTICLE 2 UNION RECOGNITION 2:01 The Company agrees to recognize the Union as the sole collectivebargaining agency for theemployees covered by this Agreement; and hereby consents and agrees to negotiatewith the Union or its representatives in any and all matters affecting the relationship between the Company and its employees.
2:02 The Company agrees that the Union may have the assistance of the representatives of I.W.A. in any negotiations or discussionsbetween representatives of the Parties hereto.
2:03 It shall be a continued condition of employment that ail present employees shall be members of the Union for the duration of this Agreement and that all employees who hereafter are employed by the Company shall within thirty (30) days of the commencement of their employment and as a condition of their employment, become members of the Union and shall maintain their membership in the Union during the term of this Agreement.
2:04 The Company agrees that upon written request
by the Union, accompanied by signed authorization cards, all Union initiation fees, monthly dues, assessments of levies shall be deducted for and on behalf of the Union, and such monies shall be paid to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than the fftB=n.th(15th) day of the month following the month for which the deductions are made. Monthly statements showing the names of all additions and deletions of staff shall also be forwarded to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union.
2:05 The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to sign Union Check-off forms in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union, for Union initiation fees, dues and sundry assessments. The Local Union shall notify the Company by letter of the amount of back dues owed by new employees and copies of such letter be forwarded to the employee.
2:06 Access to the operation shall be granted to business representatives and staff of Local 1-184,
ARTICLE 3 EMPLOYEE SECURITY 3:01 Employees whose regularjobs are not within the scope of this agreement shall not work on anyjobs which are included within the scope of this agreement except for purposes of instruction, testing of equipment, experimenting, developing of new products, or work beyond the expertise of maintenance personnel.
5
3:02 Normal routine maintenance in the plants shall not be contracted out except in cases of a major nature.
RTICLE4 MANAGEMEN RIGH1
4:01 The management and the operation of and the direction and the promotion of the working forces is vested exclusively in the management; provided, however, that this will not be used for the purposes of discriminationagainst employees.
ARTICLE 5 EMPLOYEE FILE 5:01 It shall be the Employer’s responsibility to maintain a file on all in-scope employees that will include the employee’s address, telephone number (optional) and contact person in the event of an accident. It shall be the responsibility of the employees to notify the Employer in writing of any change in address, telephone number (optional) and contact person.
5:02 Employees in the bargaining unit shall have access to their personal records at reasonable times and shall upon request be provided with copies of material contained in such records which shall be corrected if proven inaccurate.
ARTICLE 6 LEAVE OF ABSENCE 6:01 The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness for the term of this Agreement, subject to a medical certificate or
6
medical reports as may be requested by the Employer. If requested in advance, an employee on such leave shall be subject to Company’s request that medical certificatesbe obtained on the day of illness or injury.
6:02 Any employee desiring leave of absence in Sections 3, 4, 5 and 6 below, must obtain permission in writing from the Company for such leave.
6:03	(a) The Company shall grant leave of absence
to employees who are appointed or elected to Union Office or as Union Representatives for the term of office. The Employee who obtains this leave shall return to the Company within thirty (30)calendar days after the completion of their term of employment with the Union and shall give fourteen (14) calendar days written notice of intention to return.
(b)	The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings or Union conventions or as members of any Negotiating Committee of the Union in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
(c)	The Employee shall provide due notice in writing to the Employer; in the case of (a) above, 14 calendar days; and in the case of (b) above, 48 hours.
6:04 If requested by the employee, a leave of absence
of three (3) normally scheduled working day s with pay shall be granted when a death or deaths occur in the employee’s immediate family. The purpose of this leave of absenceis to allow the employeeto attend and/ or arrange for the funeral, the leave shall be taken within seven (7) normally scheduled working days of the date of the funeral, “Immediate family” is designated as the employee’s father, mother, brother, sister, husband, wife, common-law spouse, son, daughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, step parents, grandparents, spouse’sgrandchildren, spouse's grandparents, grandchildren, legal guardian and ward of an employee. Pay for such leave shall be limited to the employee’s normal number of hours per day at the employee’s straight time hourly rate.
6:05 Employees shall be granted leave of absence in order to fillpositions in Federal, Provincial or Municipal office for the duration of their term. An employee who obtains this leave shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completionof the term of office and shall give fourteen (14) calendar days written notice of intention to return.
6:06 Maternity Leave shall be granted at a level required by Provincial Labour Legislation. Extended maternity leave shall be subject to a medical certificate or medical reports as may be requested by the Company.
8
6:07 Employees required to be away from thejob for the purpose of jury duty or required to appear as a witness shall receive his/her net loss in income at regular straight time rate of pay for normal working hours.
6:08 The Company agrees that leaves of absence without pay to a maximum of one year but with maintenance of seniority rights, may be granted to employees for good and sufficient reason. Such leaves shall be granted without discrimination. The approval of the Union and the Company must be obtained in all such cases of more then one week.
6:09 All leaves of absence referred to above shall be without pay, unless otherwise stated, but with the maintenance of seniority rights for the term of this Agreement and renewals thereof.
6:10 (a) Employees who are transferred from inscope positions to out-of-scope positions shall retain their seniority for a period of up to six months from the &te of such transfer and if subsequently transferred back to an in-scopeposition shall be placed only in that position from which they were transferred. The out-ofscope employee shall pay Union dues for this period.
(b) However, in the case of an employee who is transferred from a position within the scope of this
9
agreement to a position as a relief foreman, the employee will accumulate seniority while in the “out-ofscope" position for a period up to and including sixty (60) working days annually. In cases of relief for long term illness or injury the time limits may be extended by mutual agreement and reviewed every sixty (60) working days.
(c) Where possible, notification will be given to the senior available Union Representative and notices will be placed on bulletin boards prior to temporary supervisors assuming their positions. All provisions of 3:01 will apply to temporary supervisors. The Company agrees that at no time will Hourly Relief Supervisorsbe used for periods less than a full shift except in emergency circumstances.
ARTTCEE 7 COMMITTEES
7:01 Negotiating Committee
(a)	A Negotiating Committee for the purpose of negotiations with the Company shall be recognized as the authorized negotiating representatives of the Union.
(b)	A Negotiating Committee for the purpose of negotiations with the Employer on matters of concern to only one plant location of the Corporation shall be recognized as the authorized negotiating representatives of the Union.
10
(c)	The Company shall meet with the said Committee with respect to proposals for modification of the agreement as outlined in Article 32, An accredited official(s) of the Union may participate in any such negotiations.
(d)	The Union shall supply the Company with the names of the employees constituting the Negotiating Committeeand shall inform the Company two (2) days prior to any meeting of any changes in the members of the said Committees.
(e)	The Company agrees to reimburse employees for fifty (50) percent of wages lost as a result of time spent innegotiations With the Company; provided, however, that the Company will reimburse employees for one hundred (100) percent of wages lost in the event that negotiations are conducted in a locality other than that in which the plant is situated.
ARTICLE 8 ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES 8:01 STEP 1
In the event of a grievance arising during the currency of this agreement the employee or employees concerned shall first refer the matter to the shop steward of their choice on shift who may then take the matter to the immediatesupervisorconcerned. No grievancewill be recognized by the Company unless referred to the immediate supervisorconcerned with fifteen (15) days of its occurrence. The immediate supervisor con-
ii
cemed shall discuss the grievance with the shop steward and the employeeor employeesconcernedand shall render a decision within five (5)working day s of being notified of the grievance. However, where an employee considers an emergency the effect of which may be detrimental to safety, the immediate supervisor concerned must render a decision immediately.
STEP 2
in the event that the immediate supervisor concerned does not give a decision satisfactory to the Union, or does not render a decision within the time prescribed above, the Grievance Committee of the Union shall refer the grievance to the senior plant official or designate. The senior plant official shall discuss the grievance with the grievance committee and the aggrieved employee and shall render a decision within five (5) working days of being notified of the grievance.
If the Union does not refer the grievance to the senior plant official within eight (8) days the grievance will automatically move to Step 3.
STEP 3
In the event that the Senior Plant Official or designate does not give a decision satisfactory to the Union or does not render a decision within five (5) working days prescribed above, the Grievance Committee shall notify the General Manager or designate in writing of the
12
grievance. The General Manager or designate shall meet with the Grievance Committee at a time mutually arranged and will render a decision within ten (10) working daysfromthedateof suchmeetingor from the &te upon which he/she is requested to render a decision if no meeting is held.
If the Union does not notify the General Manager within eight (8) days the grievance will automatically move to Step 4.
STEP 4
If a satisfactory solution is then not reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
8:02 In the event of the absence of the authorized agent or agents of the Company at any step, it shall be permissible to proceed with the next highest step of the foregoing procedure immediately.
8:03 The Union shall promptly notify the Company of the personnel of its Grievance Committee and of any changesin thepersonnel and the Company shall notify the Union of the names of officials of the Company referred to herein.
8:04 In the discussion of grievanceswith representatives of the Company, the Grievance Committee may at any time be accompanied by representatives of
I.W.A. CANADA.
13
8:05 Where a grievance involves questions or interpretation or employees from more than one department, the procedure will start with Step 3,
8:06 As far as is practical all grievances will be dealt with during regular working hours without loss of earnings. Where grievances are dealt with off regular working hours the employees engaging in the discus-sionof grievanceswith representativesof the Company shallbe paid at regular straighttime rate of pay for time so spent. The aggrieved employee or employees shall be considered as participants in the handling of such disputes and grievances.
8:07 Time Limits - In the foregoing steps of the grievance procedure, Steps 1 through 3, time limits may be extended by mutual consent.
8:08 If a satisfactory solution is not reached it shall be dealt with by arbitration as provided in Article 9 if the request for arbitration is received by the Company in writing thirty (30)calendar days after receipt of the Company’s third step answer in the Local Union Office.
ARTICLE 9 ARBITRATION
9:01	(a) In the case of a dispute arising under this
Agreement or any question of interpretation of this Agreement which the Parties are unable to settle
14
between themselves as set out in Article 8, the matter shall be determined by arbitration in the following manner:
Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by registered mail of the question or questions to be arbitrated and the name and address of its chosen representative for the ArbitrationBoard. After receiving such notice and statement the other Party shall, within three (3) days appoint an arbitrator, and give notice in writing of such appointmentand the name and address of its arbitrator. If the two arbitrators appointed by the Parties fail to agree upon a Chairman within ten (10) days they shall forthwith request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Saskatchewan to appoint a Chairman.
(b)	No one shall serve as a member of an Arbitration Board who has participated in the grievance procedure preceding the arbitration.
(c)	The decision of the Arbitration Board shall be by majority vote, and shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Parts.
9:02 The Parties of the First and Second Parts will each bear the expense and charges of its representatives on any Arbitration Board, and shall bear in equal proportions the expenses and allowances of the Chairman, stenographic and secretarial expense, and rent.
15
9:03 There shall be no strike pending Grievance and Arbitration procedure. The Union further agrees that it will not cause, promote, sanction, or authorize any strike, sit down, slow down, sympatheticstrike or any other interference with work by the employees for any causewhatsoeveruntilall provisions of this Agreement relating to Grievance and Arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failureto comply witb such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Company.
9:04 There shall be no lockout pending Grievance and Arbitration procedure. The Company further agrees that it will not create or institute any lockout of the employees with respect to any dispute between the Company and the Union or the Company and its employees until all provisions of the Agreement relating to Grievance and Arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Union or its employees.
ARTICLE 10 DISCIPLINE AND DISMISSAL PROCEDURE
10:01 Except in cases when the Company considers that an employee’s conduct warrants dismissal, the practice shall be to warn employees in the presence of a Shop Steward, available on shift, of the employee’s choice, at which time the employee shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
16
10:02 In cases where the conduct of an employee is considered by the Company to warrant dismissal, such employee shall be suspended pending investigation of the matter.
10:03 Should an employee be dismissed (suspended), laid off, or demoted and it is later established that such dismissal (suspension), lay-off or demotion was unfair or not in accordancewith the provisions of this Agreement, he/she shall immediately be returned to his/her former status in all respects and shall be compensated for his/her net loss in earnings suffered by reason of such dismissal (suspension), lay-off or demotion
10:04 Employees shall be notified in writing of the reasons for discipline or discharge. The Union shall receive a copy.
10:05 The Employer shall provide the employee and the Union with a copy of any written warning or adverse report affecting the employee. Any reply by the employee shall become part of his/her record. The record shall be reviewed and expunged twelve (12) months from the last infraction.
10:06 Demotion shall not be used as a disciplinary measure.
10:07 If any employee is absent from one or more shifts without giving the Corporationreasonablenotice
17
he/she may be subject to a suspensionof three (3) shifts unless he/she gives the Corporation a written reason for his/her absence.
Acceptable reasons are as follows: personal or family illness (signed doctor’s slip), road impassable, etc. (Written reason signed by the employee and countersigned by the Plant Chairman.)
ARTICLE 11 SENIORITY
11:01 The seniority of an employee shall be unit-wide and shall be established in accordancewith subsection (1) below:
(1)	Employees may acquireseniorityby working thirty (30) days during a period of one hundred and twenty (120)days in which event the employee’s senioritywill dateback to the date at the beginning of the onehundred and twenty (120) day period. Until an employee acquires seniority under this section, he/she shall be considered probationary.
(2)	An employee’s service shall be considered broken by reason of:
{a} dismissal forjust cause.
{b} voluntary resignation.
{c} continuous lay-off due to lack of work for a period in excess of twelve (12) months plus one (1) month for each year of service up to a maximum of six (6) additional months.
18
{d} failure to report within ten (10) days after being notified by registered mail to report following a lay-offimless the employee can give a reason satisfactory to the Company for such failure to report within the time prescribed.
11:02 in the application of seniority, it shall be determined by the seniority unit. The following will each constitute one seniority unit:
(a)	Carrot River Sawmill, Planermill, and Woods
(b)	Hudson Bay Plywood and Woods
(c)	Clerical Unit
Any additions to the present operation of Saskfor MacMillan Limited Partnershipshall become a subject of interimnegotiations to determineif such employees shall join existing seniority units or comprise a new one.
11:03 The Company agrees to prepare and post, not later than January 31st of each year, or at such other times as may be mutually agreed upon, in places easily accessible to all employees, a list of the names of all employees showing their seniority standing, this being open to protest by employees for thirty (30) days from the date of such submission and for thirty (30) days from the dateof return to work in the case of employees on lay-off at January 3 1 st. Upon proof of error being establishedby a representative of the Union, correction
19
shall immediately be made. Seniority of new employees hired at exactly the same time shall be determined in accordance with the alphabetical order of their surnames. The Company will supply the Union with a copy of seniority lists and corrections thereto.
11:04 Casual employees shall be defined as employees who do not hold a regular full time bid job but are available for relief work or temporary work resulting from peak overloads.
1.	A separate seniority list will be maintained for casual employees with casual seniority based on their date of hire.
2.	Casual employees will be permitted to exercise their seniority only for the purpose of claiming available casual work and bidding on posted regular full time jobs as outlined below.
3.	Casual employees will be called for available casual work in order of seniority.
4.	Casual employeeswhohaveworked thirty (30)days during a period of one hundred and twenty (120) days will have the right to bid on posted regular full time jobs and will be selectedon tbe basis of casual seniority provided that they are capableof performingthe posted job. An employee so appointed will be considered to have served their probationary period. The successful
20
applicant will be removed from the casual seniority list and placed on the regular list as holding the bid job.
5,	Casual employees refusing available work without an acceptable reason will be removed from the casual list.
ARTICLE 12 DEMOTIONS AND REDUCTIONS
12:01 (a) In the event of lay-off employees shall be laid off in the reverse order of their bargaining unit seniority. Senior employees shall be retained.
(b)	In the event of a lay-off or should a bid job cease to apply, application of seniority shall apply in the following manner providing the employee is capable of doing the work required.
1.	The affected employee may exercise their seniority to displace a less senior employee.
2.	An employee who has been displaced may exercise their seniority to displace another less senior employee and so on.
3.	An employeewho exercises seniority shall hold that position as their bidjob until such time as there is a call back.
4.	In the case of a renewed position the employeewho held that bid may be returned to that position at the
21
employee's discretion provided the job is renewed within one year. If an employee refuses to exercise their right to return to the renewed position the provisions of this clause shall no longer apply.
12:02 If in the opinion of the Company there is additional work of ten (10) days or less at the time any lay-off is to become effective, then employees will work for up to ten (10) days and further notice of layoff will not be required provided the additional work does not extend beyond a ten (10) day period.
12:03 If an employee is recalled from lay-off for temporary work of ten (10) working days or less, then notice of lay-off is not required. Employees shall be notified when called in for temporary work that it is temporary work.
12:04 Where an employee has been in the serviceof the Company continuously for one (1) month or more, the employee shall not be subjectto lay-offwithout having been given at least one (1) week written notice of such lay-off or termination.
ARTICLE 13 INCREASES IN STAFF'
13:01 Employees shall be recalled in the order of their seniority provided they have the abilityto perform such jobs foilowing a reasonable trial period. Notification of recall shall be by registered mail addressed to the last addresswhich the employees shall have registered with
22
the Company and a copy of such notice shall be given to the Secretary-Treasurerof the Union or by personal call when possible, if a signed receipt of acknowledgement of the call is received. Notification to recall may also be done by telephone or in person but notification by registered mail shall still be done. Until such time as the employees recalled to work actually report back to work, the Company shall be entitled to hire employees on a temporary basis.
13:02 The Company agrees to employ Union members belonging to the locals or sub-locals of I.W. A. CANADA, Local 1-184 if available, in the respective areas in which their operations are carried on, in preference to non-union workers not in the employ of the Company, for jobs coming within the scope of this Agreement.
13:03 Employees must advise the Company as to when they will report for work within five (5) working days of receipt of the notice to report for work.
13:04 In an emergency a reasonable effort shall be made to call people in order of seniority. However if people are not available for recall in order of seniority then other union people may be recalled, or non-union people may be hired.
13:05 Former members of Her Majesty’s forces, where practicable and if available, shall be given
23
preference of employment when further additions to the staff are necessary.
13:06 (a) The Company agrees to hire only certified maintenance people or else indenture employees into an apprenticeship programme.
(b)	Maintenance positions shall be bid either as apprenticestart or certifiedjoumeyman. The successful applicant shall then have any previous experience reviewed and be paid at a level commensurate with that experience.
(c)	APPRENTICESHIP - Plant seniority shall continueto be the determining factor when apprenticeship bid jobs are awarded, except in the case of:
{i} Those persons who have previously completed apprenticeship training in any of the recognized trades while employed and sponsored by the present corn-pany,
{ii} Those employees who commenced apprenticeship training and of their own volition choose not to complete the training.
Those persons in the above mentioned categories will not be awarded an apprenticeship bid if there are any other applicants from outside of the above categories.
24
PLANER OPERATOR, FILER OPERATOR AND FITTERS APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM - The Company and the Union have agreed to participate in Planer Operator, Filer Operator and Fitters Apprenticeship Programs. To facilitate the new Planer Operator ApprenticeshipProgram aposition of PlanerFeeder Set-up will be created. Existing Planer Operators will have the option of taking the applicable entrance exam for this program. Existing Planer Feederswill have the option of entering the apprenticeshipprogram. If they choose not to enter the program or fail the entrance exams they will be reclassified to Planer Feeder Hoist Operator.
1.	PURPOSE - The purpose of this agreement is to establish an equitable criteria which will give management reasonable assurance that the apprentice, upon completion of indentureship, will become a proficient trades person and to assure the Union and its members that the senior applicant, who masts the criteria, will become an apprentice.
2.	EDI ICATTON PREREOIITSTTES - The education requirement for general trades is Grade 10 or equivalent and Grade 11 with geometry, algebra and physics at the Grade 11 level or higher or equivalent standing for the electrical trades.
3.	APTITUDE TESTING - Applicants will be tested in accordancewith the bank of tests as agreed to by the
25
Company and the Union. Testing procedure will be as follows:
(a)	Upon the signing of this agreement both Management and the employeeswill be apprised of the standard testing procedure.
(b)	The passing grades for the tests will be 70 %.
(c)	Tests will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by Management; a Union representative will be present when the tests are given and marked.
(d)	Tests recommended for the self-evaluationwill be made available and may be taken by any interested employee. Failureto take such test shall notjeopardize an employee’s application for any apprenticeship.
4. RE-TESTING
(a)	It is agreedthat where an applicant has failed to pass the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations Section of either the Mechanical or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-tested one (1) additional time for each test.
(b)	Results of ail tests will be retained on file in the Company’s office. An applicant who has met the criteria and successfullypassed the requisitetest and is the senior’applicant for any future apprenticeship posting within a three (3) year period, will be consid-
26
ered the successful applicant.
(c)	An applicant who qualifies and has passed the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of any of the availabletests, but failed the overall test, will be eligible to bid and be re-tested for any future apprenticeship posting.
5.	PROBATIONARY PF.RIOD - The successful applicant will be given a probationary period up to ninety (90) days.
6.	SELECTION REVIEW - Where a dispute arises out of the selection of an apprentice that cannot be resolved at the plant level, the matter will be discussed by Management and the Local Union.
ARTICLE 14 JOB POSTING 14:01 Notice of new positions or vacancies coming within the scope of this Agreement shall issue from the office of the Company for posting in places accessible to ail employees, a copy of which shall immediately be supplied to the Union, and shall set forth the exact title of the job and the rate and range of pay therefore. Postings for new positions shall include a description of the position. All postings will be open for application for seven (7) days. New positions or vacancies shall be filled on the basis of seniority, providing the employee is capable of doing the work required. The name of the employee appointed shall be posted within
27
seven (7) days.
The posting shall be awarded within a further three (3) working days. The successful applicant shall assume the position within a further five (5) working days.
14:02 Employees shall be entitled to bid for such positions or vacancies by means of written applications in duplicate, one copy of which shall be submitted to the office of the Company and the other to the Uhi.cn. No applicationsfrom employeesreceived later then the posted closing date will be considered. Employees who are absent for any reason, which absence does not constitute a break in service under the terms of this Agreement, shall have the right to bid for such positions preserved, provided that such employees avail themselvesto suchright within forty-eight (48) hours of their return to work.
14:03 If such an employee does not qualify within the time prescribed, he shall revert to his former position without prejudice and without loss of seniority. Each suchemployee shall be allowed a minimum trial period of fifteen (15) days to qualify. If during the ensuing fifteen (15) days it appears to the Company and the Union that such employeeis incapableofqualifyingfor such position he shall revert to his former position before such time without prejudice and without loss of seniority.
28
Whenjob postings are being selected, a representative of I. W. A. CANADA shall be present.
14:04 If the Company has to go outside the present employees to fill the position, then the name of such person filling the position shall be posted within seven (7) days of being hired.
14:05 Transfers from job to job shall be recognized under the following conditions:
An employee shall have the right to apply his/her seniority to fill a temporary vacancy of one (1) full shift’s duration or more, and will remain on that job until: thejob incumbent returns, thejob bid is filled, the employee attains a permanent or temporary bid or the employee is bumped as a result of staff reductions.
Employees whose jobs are shut down will be allowed to exercise their seniority to displacejunior employees filling vacant positions.
14:06 In affecting temporary transfers the Employer shall apportion suchwork on the basis of senioritywith the senior employee having the option to take or not take the transfer providing the employee is capable of performing the work required.
14:07 All temporary positions are to be posted for bidding every six (6) months. This time may be
29
extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the
Local Union.
14:08 The Company agrees to notify the Union of all positions outside thejurisdiction of the Agreement as such positions are created or become vacant, and employees shall be given full opportunity to make proper application for such positions and shallbe given prior consideration over prospective new employees.
14:09 The provisions of this Article shall apply to the filling of new classifications.
ARTICLE 15 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
15:01 Advance Notification - The Company shall notify the Plant Committeenot less than six (6)nonths in advance of its intent to institute substantial changes in working methods or facilitieswhich would involve the discharge or permanent lay-off of employees. Permanent plant closure or permanent partial closure shall be regarded as a technological change.
15:02 Severance Pay - Employees discharged or permanently laid off because of technological change or automation shall be entitled to severancepay of one week’s pay at their regular straight time job rate for each fifty-two (52) weeks of continuous service with the Company. Theamount paidundersuchentitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks pay.
30
15:03 When technological changes are implemented, every effort will be made by the Company to retrain its employees to satisfactorily perform the new duties required of them.
15:04 Anemployee who is setback to a lower paid j ob because of mechanization, technological change or automation will receive the rate of their regularjob at the time of the setback, for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months they will bepaid an adjusted rate which will bemid-way between the rate of their regularj ob at the time of the set back and the rate of their new regularj ob. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of their new regularjob will apply. However, such employee will have the option of terminating their employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 2 providing they exercise this option within the above referred to six (6) month period.
ARTICLE 16 OCC1 PATIONAL HEALTH
16:01 The Saskatchewan Occupational Health Act shall apply.
16:02 The general duties of the Occupational Health Committee shall be:
1.	To Make a thorough inspection not less than once a month of the entire plant or place of employment for the purpose of determining hazardous conditions, to
31
check onunsafepractices and to receive complaintsand recommendations with respect to these matters.
2.	To investigate promptly all accidents, any unsafe conditions or practices which may be reported to it. Such investigations shall include accidents that might have caused injury to a worker whether or not such injury actually occurred.
3.	To hold regular meetings at least once monthly for the discussion of current accidents, their causes, suggested means of prevention, and reports of investigations and inspections.
4.	To keep a record of all investigations, inspections, complaints, recommendations, and minutes of meetings. The minutes shall indicate what action has been taken with respect to suggestionsor recommendations previously made. If no action has been taken, the reason therefore shall be given. Copies of the minutes shall be sent promptly to the Occupational Health Division.
5.	To investigate fire conditions, examine fire escapes, and all fire fighting appliances.
6.	To inspect lighting arrangements in all places of employment and to report to the Employer all insufficiently lit places, passageways, and other areas of the plant where workers are liable to be injured in the
32
course cf their employment.
7.	If in the opinion cf the Occupational Health Committee any machine is found to lack adequate safety devices or is in a condition of repair which renders it hazardous to operate, immediate action to remedy the situation must be taken by the Company.
16:03 The Company will permit members of the Occupational Health Committee time from work with no loss of earnings for the purpose of attending Occupational Health Seminars.
16:04 If any employee exercises his/her rights under Section 26 (1) of the Occupational Health and Safety Act of Saskatchewan no other employee shall be requested to perform his/her j ob function until it has been referred to the Occupational Health Committee and a determination is made.
ARTICLE 17 SAFETY AND lll '.AI ,TH 17:01 The Company shall install and maintain suitable first aid equipment, sanitary facilities, washrooms and lunchrooms equipped with a refrigerator. The Company shall supply drinking water at all operations.
17:02 If the wearing of any special article of clothing for the safety and health of the employee is deemed advisable, it is' agreed that the matter of the provision of such article of clothing shall be made the subject of
33
negotiations between the Company and the Union.
17:03 Employees are required to take good care of any articlesof clothing provided them by the Company and such articles of clothing shall be returned to the Company on termination of employment.
17:04 A second person will work with the fork lift and/or log handling equipment at night.
17:05 When the following equipmentis required to be used by the Company or by the Workers’ Compensation Board, the Company shall:
(a)	Supply new employees with the articles of equipment listed in (c) as required.
(b)	Supply employees moving to another job with articlesof equipment listed in (c) they require and that they do not have at thetime of the move. Ail equipment previously suppliedbut not required in the newj ob will be promptly returned to the Company. If not returned, the employee shall be charged at the full cost of the replacement article.
(c)	Replacement equipment as required when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair by an employee at no cost to the employee:
(1)	Aprons
(2)	Hard hats and/or liners
34
(3)	Welding goggles
(4)	Dust protection
(5)	Eye protection
(6)	Ear protection
(7)	Gloves
(8)	Safety toed boots
(9)	Protective rain gear
(10)	Those required to work outdoors in muddy conditions will be provided with rubber boots.
17:06 (a) Ail equipment above except boots shall be returned to the Company upon lay-off or termination. If not returned, the employeeshall be charged at the full cost of the replacement article and shall be deducted on the final pay.
(b) Ail new employees leaving the employment of the Company prior to thirty (30) working days shall be charged for the full cost of the boots provided.
17:07 In the event that anemployee at the time of their employment or at the time of renewal of safety toed boots, desire a type of boot other than the standard type, the Company shall contribute to the cost thereof an amount equal to the cost of the standard boots; it being understood that any type of boot chosen by an employee must meet safety requirements and that the employee must. submit sales receipt to the Company. Boot allowance will be increased to reflect current costs ($50.00).
35
17:08 The Company shall supply partial leather soled boots on depletion of current supplies at each location.
ARTICLE 18 FTRSTATD
18:01 The Company will pay for the following premium to designated duty first aid persons: STANDARD - Thirty ($. 30) cents per hour ADVANCED - Fifty-five ($.55) cents per hour
18:02 The first aid persons will be designated in writing by the Company after consulting with the Occupational Health Committee and the Local Union Committee.
18:03 First Aid Courses will be scheduled so that employees will be able to take courses outside of their normal shift hours so as not to lose any normal income.
If first aid course schedules are not setup to allow an employee to take a course outside of normal shift hours, the employeewill be allowed to take the course during the employee’s regular shift without loss of regular earnings. However, this will not apply if the Company has attempted to set up a course and due to lack of applications the course has been cancelled.
ARTICLE 19 ACCIDENT COMPENSATION
19:01 Pending receipt ofpayments from the Workers’ Compensation Board, where an employeeis absent due
36
to a compensable injury, an employee shall receive advancesof up to 90 % of normal earnings less the usual income tax deductions. Such advances shall be recovered from any payments made by the Workers’ Compensation Board.
19:02 An employee hurt in an industrial accident shall be paid at their regular straight time job rate for the balance of the shiftwithin which the accidentoccurred.
ARTICLE 20 TOOLS
20:01 The Company will supply lockup facilities for mechanics’ tools and will replace tools lost in a fire or stolen, due to proven breaking and entry.
20:02 The Company shall replace mechanics privately owned tools, tool boxes, or parts of tools if satisfactory evidence is given that such items were broken while being properly utilized in the performance of assigned work.
20:03 Mechanics’ tools must be listed in the inventory of mechanics’ own tools mutually agreed to by the Maintenance Superintendent and the employee.
20:04 If and when metric tools are required the Company will pay one-half (1/2) the cost of the metric tools during the metric conversion period. The Company shall have metric tools available on site for temporary use.
37
ARTICLE 21 ANNUAL VACATIONS
21:01 Every employee who has completed one (1) year of servicewith the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) weeks and shall be paid at seven (7 %)percentof the employee’stotal earnings for the previous year.
21:02. Every employee who has completed nine (9) years of servicewith the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) visits with pay based on nine (9%) percent of the employee’s total earnings in the previous year.
21:03 Every employee who has completed seventeen (17) years of servicewith the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) weeks with pay based on eleven (11%) percent of the employee’s total earnings in the previous year.
21:04 An employee who leaves the Company’s employ after one (1) year of service and has not received their annual vacation for that year shall be allowed pay in lieu of earned vacation.
21:05 Wereapaidholiday falls within an employee’s annual vacation, such employee shall be granted an additional day’s vacation with pay.
21:06 Except in instances where it is mutually agreed
38
by the Company and the Union concerned that the operation be shut down for the period of annual vacation, annual vacations shall be taken wherever possible at the time or times most desired by the employees concerned, consistent with production requirements. Employees shall not be required to take annual vacations outside the period May 1st to October 31st, unless at their own request. However, one employee only at one time per shift in each yard may take vacation between August 15th and October 20th. Vacation selections for prime time (July/August) must be requested in writing to the employee’ssupervisor by May 1stofeach year and confirmed by May 10th. No cancellations of these prime time vacations will be allowed after June 1stofeachyear. Vacation schedules shall beprepared not less thantwo (2) weeks in advance of the vacation to be taken, and shall be supplied to the Union before copies are made available for general scrutiny.
21:07 Vacation pay shall be paid to an employeeupon request any time after May 15 th or at the employee’s option prior to commencement of annual vacations.
21:08 Vacations earned each year must be taken. Carryover of one week’s vacation leave shall be allowed as long as this leave is taken in the vacation year outside the prime vacation period.
21:09 April 30th of each year shall be used as the
39
holiday pay cut-off date for the purpose of computing holiday pay.
21:10 Time on lay-off shall be reckoned in the determination of entitlement to vacations.
21:11 Where during their vacation an employee is otherwise entitled to disability benefits, or any other approved leaveof absence, they shall be entitledto take vacation with pay or the part thereof which has been displaced at another time.
ARTICLE 22 STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
22:01 An employee to qualify for statutory holiday pay must comply with each one of the following three conditions:
(a)	Have been on the payroll one (1) calendar day preceding the holiday.
(b)	Have worked hisher last regularly scheduled work day before, and his/her first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his/her absence is due to illness, compensable occupational injury, or is otherwise authorized by the Company. In case of injury or illness, the Company shall have the right to request a medical certificate.
(c)	Not withstanding (b) above, the employee must have worked one day before and one day after the
40
holiday, bothofwhich must fall within a period of sixty (60) calendar days.
22:02 The following days shall be observed as holidays by all employees without deductions of pay therefore:
New Years Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Remembrance Day
Dominion Day	December 24th
First Monday in	Christmas Day (December 25 th)
August	Boxing Day (December 26th
Labour Day
22:03 (a) If in any calendar year an employeedoes not receive benefit of a nationally or provincially proclaimed holiday or a holiday proclaimed by local civic authority in addition to the days shown in Section 2, the employee shall be entitled to one (l)personal floating holiday in each calendaryear with pay at eight (8)hours times regular straightjob rate. This personal floating holiday shall be taken during the last four months of any calendar year.
(b)	An employee shall qualify for the personal floating
Article and is working prior to October 1st of the same calendar year.
(c)	Requests for the personal floating holidays must be
41
submitted in writing seven (7) days in advance and Management will confirm the status of the employee’s request within fortyeight (48) hours.
(d)	Each employee shall be entitled to a second personal floating holiday during each calendar year subject to the notification provisions described in (c) above and payable at eight (8) hours at the employee’s regular straight time job rate.
22:04 The observance of the above holidays may be made on other days than the calendar date when so proclaimed by the Provincial or Civic authoritiesor by mutual agreement.
22:05 All time worked on a holiday as specified in Section 2 of this Article shall be paid at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee’s regular rate in addition to pay for the full holiday at the employee’s regular rate.
22:06 Where a holiday falls on a shift employee’s assigned day of rest and such day of rest does not fall on a Saturday or Sunday, and they do not work on such a day of rest, such employee shall be granted an additional day off, or pay in lieu thereof. Such day off shall be mutually arranged between the employee and the Company.
22:07 Where a holiday falls on a shift employee’s
42
assigned day of rest and such a day cf rest does not fall on a Saturday or Sunday, and the employee works on such a holiday, such employee shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) for the holiday worked in addition to any holiday or pay in lieu thereof to which they are entitled.
22:08 Employees absentdue to illness shall qualify for pay for any statutory holiday falling within their waiting period for weekly indemnity benefits.
ARTICLE23 PAYDAYS 23:01 On each pay day the Company shall provide to each employee an itemized statement setting forth the total number of hours worked by the employee concerned during the immediately preceding pay period, the rate of wages applicable to the employee, all deductions made fromwages whatsoever, the purpose for which such deductionswere made, the total amount actually payable to the employee, and suchinformation as may fromtime to time be agreed upon by the Parties.
23:02 Each pay period will comprise a two week period beginning and ending at midnight on a Friday.
23:03 Pay days shall be every second Friday with a one week hold back of pay. Pay cheques shall be given to employees in sealed envelopes.
23:04 On days on which time-sheets are to be signed,
43
the second rest period provided for in Article 25, Section 13 of this Agreement shall be extendedby five (5) minutes for the purpose of enabling time-sheets to be signed with the minimum of work interruption. Once final time sheets are signed they shall not be changed except with the approval of the parties signing the time sheets.
23:05 Shortages in excess of twenty ($20.00) dollars shallbe made up and paid to employeeswithin four (4) days of notification by the employee.
23:06 Retroactive pay as a result of contract negotiations and holiday pay will be paid out on separate cheques.
ARTICLE 24 PENSION PLAN 24:01 Effective October 4, 1986 all employees will become members of the Crown Investments Corporation Pension Plan, with the following terms and conditions:
(a)	all existing full-time and all regular pari-time employees will become members of 1he Plan on October 4, 1986; all such new employees hired after the effective date become members on the date of hire;
(b)	Required Employer Contributions to be 5.5 % of the pensionable earnings, and no Required Contributions from the employees. Effective April 1, 1998 a one time $300.00 contribution to be made to each
44
hourly employee's pension account provided the employee is actively at work on April 1, 1998 and has worked at least 350 hours in the preceding year. The Parties agree to meet, within the first year of this Agreement, to review inscope pensions with the Company.
(c)	Pensionable Service, for vesting purposes, will include all:
service with the Company prior to October 4, 1986; and
{i i}	periods of time between becoming eligi-
ble and resignation, termination or death, except that continuous lay-off periods exceeding fourteen (14) calendar days will be excluded from pensionable service.
(d)	Pensionable Earnings for which Required Contributions shall be paid into the Plan will include:
all working hours, except excluding overtime, for which the Member receives salary or wages from the Company.
{ii} the earnings which a Member would havereceived on his/her regular shifthad it not been for illness or injury, providing such illness or injury qualifies under the Company's disability plans;
45
{iii} payments in observance of statutory holidays and for holiday pay.
periods during which the Member is receiving Workers’ Compensation Board disability benefits, to a maximum of two (2) years for any continuous period of such disability; the Required Contributions during such disability will be based on the regular rate of pay at the time of injury and a maximum of 1,500 hours per year.
ARTICLE 25 HOIJRS OF WORK DIFFERENTIALS. OVERTIME
25:01 This Article is only forthepurposeof establishing hours of work and calculating overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week.
25:02 Hours of Work - The regular hours for all employees shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) per week. For the purpose of Section 3, Subsection (2) of this Article, a ’’week” is defined as the period from midnight on Saturday to midnight on the following Saturday.
25:03 shifts
(1)	The regular shifts for all employees shall start on a Monday and end on a Friday except as shown in (2) below.
46
(2)	The Company shall have the right to schedule an hours to work schedule for maintenance personnel that will start on a Tuesday and end on a Saturday. In the event that a Tuesday to Saturday Maintenance Schedule is required, the Company will provide to the Union Plant Committee the reasons the Tuesday to Saturday maintenance schedule is required. The Company will schedule Tuesday to Saturday maintenance on a rotation basis, as far as is practical so that the Tuesday to Saturday Maintenance Schedule can be shared by all plant maintenance personnel as equally as possible.
(3)	Fire maintenance in the Hudson Bay Plywood Mill is a production job but the Company may at its discretion schedule the position either Monday to Friday or Tuesday to Saturday.
25:04 Where the operation requires more than one shiftper day, employees otherthan employees working on overtime will be paid, in addition to other wages payable to the employees, a differential of twenty-six ($.26) cents per hour worked on afternoon shift and thirty-three ($.33) cents per hour on Graveyard Shift.
25:05 Overtime
(a)	Overtime,except that of anemergency nature, will go to the people working on the j ob. If they refuse, it will go to plant seniority on shift as long as the person is capable of doing the job.
47
(b)	Any scheduled overtimefor weekends will first be offered to the person actively working on the job and holding the permanent or temporary bid job. If they refuse, it will then go by plant seniority providing the person is capable of doing the job. All persons considered for overtime will be required to have their names on the posted overtime list.
{ 1) When possible five (5) hours notice shall be given of overtime work.
(2)	All time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day or forty (40) hours in a week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half. All time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in any one day shall be paid for at the rate of double the regular rate of pay.
(3)	Employees shall not be required to suspend work during their regular working hours for the purpose of absorbing overtime.
(4)	Any portion of an overtime hour shall be paid at the rate of one hour overtime.
{5} If an employee agrees to work an exchange shift, it shall be considered the employee’s shift and shall be worked by the employee.
(6) The Company will not run without attempting to
48
maintain a full compliment of staff on each shift.
{7} Spreaderwashers shall receive overtime rates for ail work performed on Saturday.
25:06 Work on Scheduled Rest Days
1.	Time and one-half shall be paid for work performed onscheduledrestdays. This clause will not apply when a change is made at the request of an employee and agreed to by the supervisor.
2.	Employees shall receive one and one-half regular straight time rates of pay for all hours worked on Sunday.
3.	Double straight time rates of pay shall apply for the following:
(a)	Hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per day when the regular day is eight (8) hours.
(b)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts duringthe preceding six (6) days.
(c)	For purposes of (3) herein a Statutory Holiday and a Personal Floater shall be considered as a shift worked.
(d)	Item (b) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regular scheduled work day.
49
25:07 Company Meetings
(a)	Employees will be paid their regular straight time rate for attending any meeting called by the Company which may occur outside their regular hours of work and at which an employee’s attendance is required by the Company.
(b)	Tool box meetings (total crew) and industrial relations meetings (Union Committee) shall be held regularly and the time spent in attending suchmeetings shall be paid at straight time.
25:08 (1) Any employeewho normally is required to report ‘at the commencement of a shift and who so reports but who for reasons beyond his/her control does not work shall receive not less than four (4) hours pay at such employee’s regular rate ofpay. (Wherever possible the Company will notify the employeenot to report.)
(2) When an employee works continuously for ncre than sixteen (16) hours, lunch periods included, or is called back to work on overtime and is scheduled to work the next day, they will be given a rest period of eight (8) hours. They will not be required to report for work until the end of the eight (8) hours rest period. They will be paid straight time for any time lost from their regular shift as a result of the rest period. Should the employeebe called back to work for four (4) hours
50
or less prior to the start of their regular shift, the eight (8) hour rest clause will not apply.
If an employee does not have an eight (8) hour rest period before the commencement of the shift, the employee shall be paid for the shift at overtime rates.
25:09 Overtime Meal - If an employee is required to work more than one hour immediately preceding or following the shift, they will be provided with a hot meal or the option of an allowance of $7.00 plus one-half (1/2) hour at time and one-half (1 1/2) times regular straight time rate of pay.
After four (4) hours of overtime the employee shall be entitled to an additional meal allowance or meal as described above.
25:10 An employee who because of an emergency is called out for duty at any time after or before their regular work period, shall be free when the emergency is over, but shall nevertheless be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at overtime rates.
25:11 If for whatever reason other than self-bidding an employee is required to perform work in a job classification other than their bid classification, they shall nevertheless not receive a reduced rate; but if the classification is higher paying, they shall receive the higher rate.
51
25:12 Production employees brought in to perform work during a maintenance shutdown shall receive their job bid rate of pay.
25:13 Every employee shall be granted one ffteai (15) minute rest period in each half shift worked at a time mutually agreed upon, Theemployees, however, agree to take this rest periodduring any changeover in planing operations within half an hour each way of time mutually agreed upon. Further, where practical, employees shall be relieved for their rest period.
25:14 An employee who is away from work due to sickness shall give reasonablenotice of intent to return to work.
25:15 The Company will give forty-eight (48) hours notice of intent to change the shift hours. Employees will not be changed from shift to shift except by their consent.
25:16 AltemateShiftScheduling- Management.Plant Committees and the Local Union shall have the right under the terms of the collective agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules.
The following steps to apply:
{i} Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Management.
52
|ii} Majority approval by the employees in the proposed variations.
ARTICLE 26 RETIREMENT
26:01 Employees will normally retire at age 6 5. The Company may grant a maximum extensionof oneyear. The Corporation may grant extensions on an annual basis.
ARTICLE 27 TRAINING - GRADING. SCALING. TRADE QUALIFICATION EXAM
27:01 When an employee attends grading or scaling school at the request of the Company (whether laid off or not) they shall receive wages and expenses firm the company.
27:02 The Company shall pay employees for lost time and costs incurred for oneoccasionper year for writing trades qualification examinations and the renewal of any journey ticket which is required by the Company.
ARTICLE 28 ELECTRICAL OUTLETS
28:01 The Company shall supply electrical outlets for block heaters for employee’s vehicles in the parking area at no cost to the employee.
ARTICLE 29 NOTICE BOARDS
29:01 The Company agrees to install notice boards for the sole use of the Union in suitable locations easily
53
accessible to the employees for the purpose of posting notices of interest to the Union.
ARTICLE 30 FIRE CREWS
30:01 A fire crew of at least two (2) employees shall be designatedin each area of the plant and shall receive the fire fighting premium. Fire fighting crews are to be posted and designated on the basis of seniority.
30:02 The fire fighting premium shall be ten ($. 10) cents per hour for all hours worked.
ARHCLE31 CLASSIFICATIONSAND RATES OF PAY
31:01 The principle of equal pay for equal work shall apply regardless of sex. Hours of work, classifications, titles and rates of pay applicable thereto for any new classification or position that may hereafter be established, shall be the subject of negotiations between the Company and the Union, a supplementary agreement to be executed in respect to any such classification or position. The rate of pay negotiated between the Company and the Union shall be retroactive to the date of hiring or date employeewas assigned to the newjob.
54
31:02
SAWMILL RATE SCHFDI ILF- CARROT RIVER
	EP	4/1/96	4/1/97	4/1 /98
		3%	3%	2%
Group 1		17.64	18.17	18.53
Clean-up/S.M.	54			
Group 2		17.72	18.25	18.62
Watch Person/Janitor	64			
Clean-up/Graveyard	69			
Group 3		17.79	18.32	18.69
Clean-upmatch Person/Planer	75			
Strip Piler/Ro ugh Tally	77			
Strip Layer/Stacker	79			
Resaw Tailer	79			
Sorter Chaser/J-Bar/P.M.	80			
Group 4		17.87	18.41	18.78
Log Deck Chaser	84			
Planer Hoist Operator	92			
a
Group 5		17.94	18.48	18.85
Paint Sprayer/Bander Helper	104			
Log Bin Sorter/Chaser	107			
Resaw Feeder/P.M, Group 6	111	18.04	18.58	18.95
Bander/Wrapper Operator	118			
J-Bar Feeder/Trim/P.M,	129			
Elliminator/Chipper Attendant Group7	140	18.13	18.67	19.04
J-Bar Peeder/P.E. Trim/S.M.	142			
Planer Stacker/J-Bar Group 8	143	18.25	18.80	19.18
Planer Feeder	170			
Clean-up/Sawmill & Yard	172			
Clean-up/Planermill & Yard Group 9	172	18.38	18.93	19.31
Stacker Operator/Kiln Loads Grade 11	226	18.62	19.18	19.56
Edger Optimizer	273			
Barker Operator/12"	282
Forklift Operator/SawmiU	304			
Forklift Operator/Planermill	304			
Forklift Operator/Kiln	304			
Group 13		18.88	19.45	19.84
Foridift/Tally Shipping	371			
Kiln Operator	397			
Group 15		19.18	19.76	20.16
Canter/Edger Operator	489			
Crane Operator/Cat 235 & Tanguay	498			
Log Loader/Cat 966C & 966D	513			
Group 21		20.13	20.73	21.14
Planer Grader/Optic Scanning				
Not Covered Bf Evaluation:				
Scaler (Permit)		18.47	19.02	19.40
Oiler		19.02	19.59	19.98
Bush Motor Grader Qpfimtnr		19.07	19.64	20.03
Bush Crawler Tractor Operator (D6, TD15	or Equivalent) 19.24		19.82	20.22
Scaler Licensed		19.24	19.82	20.22
S3
31:03
TRADES & APPRENTICESHIP RATES
(1)	To include the following trades:
(a)	Electricians	(e)
(b)	Carpenters	(0
(c)	Millwrights	(g)
(d)	Welders	(h)
(2)
JOURNEY PERSON (With Ticket) JOURNEY PERSON (Without Ticket) 12 Months 8 Months 4 Months Sfcrt
IMPROVER 12 Months 8 Months 4 Months
Start
Mechanics Plumber-Pipe Fitters Saw Filers Planer Operator
4/1/96	4/1/97	4/1/98
3%	3%	2%
21.94	22.60	23.05
21.58	22.23	22.67
21.38	22.02	22.46
21.19	21.83	22.27
21.01	21.64	22.07
20.65	21.27	21.70
20.51	21.13	21.55
20.37	20.98	21.40
20.26	20.87	21.29
HELPER
12 Months	19.89	20.49	20.90
8 Months	19.78	20.37	20.78
4 Months	19.65	20.24	20.64
Start	19.53	20.12	20.52
PLANER OPERATOR			
12 Months	21.58	22.23	22.67
8 Months	21.38	22.02	22.46
4 Months	21.19	21.83	22.27
start	21.01	21.64	22.07
IMPROVER			
12 Months	20.65	21.27	21.70
8 Months	20.51	21.13	21.55
4 Months	20.37	20.98	21.40
Start (Planer Operator Trainee)	20.26	20.87	21.29
The senior apprenticerequired to cover a shift without a journey person on duty shall receive Journey Person Without Tktet Rate of Pay (at the 12 Month Level)
Cl
o
31:04	PLYWOOD RATE SCHEDULE
	EJL	4/1/96	4/1/97	4/1/98
		3%	3%	2%
Grade 1		17.64	18.17	18.53
Janitor Grade 2	79	17.74	18.27	18.64
Edge Putty & Sprayer	85			
Blister Watcher	88			
Dry Clipper Offbearer	88			
Dryer Feeder	88			
Clean-up/Press Graveyard	89			
Clean-up/Greenend Graveyard	89			
Watch Person Grade 3	91	17.82	18.35	18.72
Clean-up Plant	93			
Sander Feeder & Offbearer	97			
Dry Clipper Operator Grade 4	97	17.91	18.45	18.82
Spreader Wash & Clean-up (Lay-up	103			
Line Wash & Clean-up)
Os
Green Chain Offbearer Strapper/Plywood Grade 5
Green Chain Stacker Operator Raimann Pateher/Stripp Cutter Dryer Grader Offbearer Dryer Grader Curve Grade 6
Patch Line Patcher Putty Patch Grade 7
Assistant Hot Press Operator Chipper Operator Grade 8 Stores Helper
Forklift Operator - Finish End Dryer Grader/Stacker/Attendant Grade 9
Veneer Composer/4 ft & 8 ft Forklift Operator - Tally
18.03	18.57	18.94
18.13	18.67	19.04
18.25	18.80	19.18
18.38	18.93	19.31
18.49	19.04	19.42
105
109
112
114
119
126
138
141
147
148
149
154
156
Forklift Operator - Graveyard	160		
Grade 10		18.61	19.17
Forklift Operator - Block Supply	163		
Sheet Placer	169		
Forklift Op. - Spreaders & Green End	170		
Forklift Op. - Green End/Spreaders	170		
930 Operator			
Grade 11		18.74	19.30
Vats, Chip & Konus			
Watch Person/Vat/Konus System Attendant	172		
Vat/Konus System Attendant	172		
Barker Operator	181		
966 Operator			
Grade 12		18.85	19.42
Glue Mixer/Quality Control	187		
S i g Unit & Grade Line Op. (Trimsaw)	187		
Log Loader Operator Yard	187		
Grade 13		18.97	19.54
Dryer Operator	201		
19.55
19.69
19.81
19.93
Grade 14		19.12	19.69	20.08
Lay-up Line Operator	208			
Sander/Tongue & Groove Operator	208			
Spreader (Strdc) Rustler/Quality Control	210			
Grade 15		19.25	19.83	20.23
Hot Press Operator/40 Openings	218			
Grade 25		20.98	21.61	22.04
Lathe Operator	318			
Not Covered By Evaluation:				
Griner Operator		19.83	20,42	20.83
Fire Maintenance		21.58	22,23	22.67
Scaler		19.24	19.82	20.22
31:05	SAWMILL JOB EVALUATION
Effective April 1, 1980 the Efertdes agree to implement the British Columbia Southern Interior Sawmill
Job Evaluation Program and wage curve as follows:
	Pninfa	Increments	Base	4/1/96	4/1/97	4/1/98
1	0- 60	Nil	Nil	17.64	18.17	18.53
2	61- 70	$.08	$0.08	17.72	18.25	18.62
3	71 - 80	$.07	$0.15	17.79	18.32	18.69
4	81 -
5	96 -
6	116 -
7	141 -
8	166 -
9	196 -
10	231 -
11	271 -
12	321 -
13	371 -
14	421 -
15	471 -
16	521 -
17	571 -
18	621 -
19	671 -
20	731 -
21	791 -
22	851 -
23	911 -
$.08	$0.23
$.07	$0.30
$.10	$0.40
$.09	$0.49
$.12	$0.61
$.13	$0.74
$.11	$0.85
$.13	$0.98
$.14	$1.12
$.12	$1.24
$.14	$1.38
$.16	$1.54
$.15	$1.69
$.16	$1.85
$.15	$2.00
$.15	$2.15
$.17	$2.32
$.16	$2.49
$.16	$2.65
$.19	$2.84
■ 95
115
140
165
195
230
270
320
370
420
470
520
570
620
670
730
790
850
910
970
17.87 17.94 18.04
18.13 18.25 18.38
18.49 18.62 18.76
18.88 19.02 19.18 19.33
19.49 19.64 19.79 19.96
20.13 20.29 20.48
18.41
18.48
18.58 18.67 18.80 18.93 19.04 19.18 19.32 19.45
19.59 19.76 19.91 20.07 20.23 20.38 20.56 20.73 20.90 21.09
18.78 18.85 18.95 19.04 19.18
19.31 19.42 19.56 19.71 19.84 19.98 20.16
20.31 20.47 20.63
20.79 20.97 21.14
21.32 21.51
24	971 - 1030	$.17	$3.01	20.65	21.27	21.70
25	1031 - 1090	$.36	$3.37	21.01	21.64	22.07
26	1091 - 1150	$.36	$3.73	21.37	22.01	22.45
27	1151 - 1210	$.42	$4.15	21.79	22.44	22.89
rafailg of the Sawmill Job Evaluation Plan are provided in Supplement No. 2 to this Agreement. Effective April 1, 1997, the Company agrees to bring Carrot River Division Rates in line with B.C. Southern Interior Sawmill Job evaluation Program. The realignment of rates will be to a maximum average increase of ten ($.10) carts per hour.
31:06	PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
(1)	The implementation of the Plywood Job Evaluation Program will be in accordance with Supplement No. 1 to this Agreement.
(2)	Point Range and Increment- The Plywood Job Evaluation wage increment curve to be as follows:
Grade	Points	increments	Base	4/1/96	4/1/97	4/1/98
i	0- 81	Nil	Nil	17.64	18.17	18.53
2	82- 91	$.10	$0.10	17.74	18.27	18.64
3	92 - 101	$.08	$0.18	17.82	18.35	18.72
4	102- 111	$.09	$0.27	17.91	18.45	18,82
5	112 - 121	$.12	$0.39	18.03	18.57	18.94
6	122 -131	$.10	$0.49	18.13	18.67	19.04
7	132-141	$.12	$0.61	18.25	18.80	19.18
&
8	142- 151	$.13	$0.74	18.38	18.93	19.31
9	152- 161	$.11	$0.85	18.49	19.04	19.42
10	162 - 171	$.12	$0.97	18.61	19.17	19.55
11	172 - 181	$.13	$1.10	18.74	19.30	19.69
12	182- 191	$.11	$1.21	18.85	19.42	19.81
13	192-201	$.12	$1.33	18.97	19.54	19.93
14	202-211	$.15	$1.48	19.12	19.69	20.08
15	212-221	$.13	$1.61	19.25	19.83	20.23
16	222-231	$.14	$1.75	19.39	19.97	20.37
17	232 - 241	$.15	$1.90	19.54	20.13	20.53
18	242-251	$.15	$2.05	19.69	20.28	20.69
19	252 - 261	$.15	$2.20	19.84	20.44	20.85
20	262 - 271	$.18	$2.38	20.02	20.62	21.03
21	272 - 281	$.20	$2.58	20.22	20.83	21.25
22	282-291	$.18	$2.76	20.40	21.01	21.43
23	292-301	$.20	$2.96	20.60	21.22	21.64
24	302-311	$.19	$3.15	20.79	21.41	21.84
25	312-321	$.19	$3.34	20.98	21.61	22.04
26	322 - 331	$.19	$3.53	21.17	21.81	22.25
27	332 - 341	$.19	$3.72	21.36	22.00	22.44
(3) Red Circle Jobs - Incumbents injob categories for which the wage rate is reduced as a result of job evaluation (hereinafter referred foas "redcirclejobs") shall continue at the original rate.
31:07 Premiums:

Grading Certificate Premiums: A Certificate B Certificate
Certificate held but not used
Head Saw Filer
$1.00
Sawfilersand Planer Operators:
These positions to progress to journey person with ticket status after four (4) months as journey person without ticket.
ARTICLE 32 DURATION OF AGREEMENT 32:01 This Agreement shall be effective from April 1, 1996 and shall remain in force and effect up to and including March 31. 1999.
32:02 Either Party may not less than thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the termination date hereof, give notice in writing to the other Party to terminate this Agreement or to negotiate a revision thereof.
The Party givingnotice in accordance with Section 1 of this Article shall at the same time, when such notice is issued, indicatea date on which the said Party suggests that negotiations commence, it being understood and agreed that both Parties shall endeavour to have negotiations commence at the earliest possible date within
67
the sixty (60) day period before the expiry date of the Agreement.
32:03 At the first meeting of the Parties for the commencement of negotiationsthe Union shall submit to the Company in writing the Union’s proposals in respect to revisions of the Agreement, and the Company shall submit in writing to the Union such proposals as the Company wishes to make to the Union in respect of revisions. It is clearly understood between the Parties that only such items as are submitted in writing by either Party to the other at the first meeting mentioned above shall be subject to negotiations.
68
SUPPLEMENT NO- I
PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION (As referred to in Article 31 Section 4)
1.	Principles and Procedures
The implementation and administration of the job evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles and procedure set out in a Manual agreed to by Saskfor MacMillan Limited Partnership and I. W. A. CANADA, Local 1-184, and entitled “Job Evaluation Manual for Operational Hourly Paid Jobs at the Saskfor MacMillan Limited Partnership Plywood Plant, Hudson Bay, Saskatchewan” (herein referred to as the “Manual”).
2.	Industry Job Evaluation Committee
There shall be a committee constitutedand named the Saskfor MacMillan Limited Partnership - I.W.A. CANADA Job Evaluation Committee (herein referred to as the “Plywood Evaluation Committee”)to consist of one member representative of Saskfor MacMillan Limited Partnership and one member representativeof I.W.A. CANADA, Local 1-184.
3.	Function of Plywood Evaluation Committee
(a)	The Plywood Evaluation Committee shall assume general responsibility for the administrationof thejob evaluation program.
(b)	The unanimous decision of the said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
69
4.	Plant Job Review Committee
(a)	There shall be a committee constituted in each plywood plant named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referred to as “Review Committee”) to consist of two members representativeofmanagement and two members representative of the employees. At least one representative of Management must be a member of the Plant’s salaried staff or Management, and at least one representative of the employees must be an employee of the plant whose job is subject to Plywood Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed at the plant, and the Union may do likewise except that neither party may choose as its representative a member of the Plywood Evaluation Committee or any person who is employed as ajob evaluator by Sa.skfor MacMillan Limited Partnership or by I.W.A. CANADA, Local 1-184.
(b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly paid employees for time lost while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information regarding their ownjob, before a regularly convened meeting of the ReviewCommittee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly-paid employees.
5.	Function of Review Committee
(a)	The Review Committee will be responsible for
70
seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Plywood Evaluation Committee for further action. The documentsrequired will includea “Requestfor Job Evaluation” form submitted either by an individual employee or by local Management, and a fully completed Job Description which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of the Plywood Evaluation Committee. The form of the documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them, and the time limits for completion may be amended as required by the Plywood Evaluation Committee under the authority given them by Article 3 of this supplement.
(b)	Decisions of the Review Committeerespecting the appropriateness of a request for evaluation or reevaluation, or respectingthe adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limit, the Review Committee shall, at the request of any one of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement, to the Plywood Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
(c)	When the Plywood EvaluationCommitteehas made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job, it shall communicate that decision to the appropriate Review
71
Committee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcomewhere these are available. A decisionof the Review Committee that an Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded to the Plywood Evaluation Committee will similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
(d)	Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Plywood Evaluation Committee to determine the facts about anyjob, by directobservation or otherwise, or to amend anyjob description or specification submitted to them in support of a Request for Job Evaluation form.
6.	Application of Program
Thejob evaluation program shall apply to all employees employed at the Saskfor MacMillan Limited Partnership Plywood Plant at Hudson Bay, Saskatchewan except Journey People, Trades People, Improvers, Helpers and Powerhouse, and Boom Crews.
7.	Direction of Work
Job Evaluation descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirements of the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restriction on the right of the Company to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that if the assignment of suchdutieschanges thejob contentsufficiently
72
to justify a review of the evaluation the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure set out herein.
8.	Re-evaluation
(a)	When aj ob has moved to another grade as a result of re-evaluation, the wage rate for the new grade shall be effective on the date that Management or employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation.
(b)	When aj ob is moved to a lower grade as a result of re evaluation, the incumbent shall maintainhisjob rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of Paragraph 10 herein.
9.	New Jobs Created
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a newjob, a temporary rate shall be set by Management. The permanent rate for the said job as determined by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be effective as of the date thejob jes installed. If the evaluated rate for a new job is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbent(s) shallbe allowed to continueat the temporary rate.
10.	Red Circle.Tobs
(a) The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circle jobs, the said list to includethenameof theemployee, nameofjob category
73
filled, the evaluated rate for thejob and the actual rate paid .
(b)	Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
(c)	Employeesholding red circlejobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluatedrate for thejob to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is re-assigned to his/her formerjob he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
(d)	When the Company terminates ajob, or ajob is not occupied during a period of one year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established.
(e)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company he/she shall retain his existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to his/her regular job the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
11.	Seniority
(a)	Subjectto theprovisions herein set out, Article 11 (Seniority) shall continue to apply.
(b)	Promotions shall be made only where a vacancy
74
exists.
12.	Referral Procedure
(a)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review Committee.
(b)	When an employee’s request for re-evaluation results in no change being made in thejob grade, or in a reduction, or when a Management request results in no change or in an increase, the Plywood Evaluation Committeeshall give to the appropriate Review Committee a short statementof the reasons for the decision. The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficient depth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
(c)	An evaluation done by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on thepartiesbut, at any time after five years since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of a job, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of thatjob and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
(d)	If the Plywood Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the
75
job evaluation program which falls within theirjuris-diction, the matter shall be referred to Saskfor MacMillan Limited Partnership and to the I.W.A. CANADA, Local 1-184 for settlement.
(e)	Ail communication between any Plant Review Committee and the Plywood Evaluation Committee referred to aboveshall be effectedby sending one copy to the Union representative or representatives on the committee and one copy to the Employer representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of I.W.A. CANADA, Local 1-184 and Employer representative care of the Company’s offices at the plant. In the case of communications to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, the Union representative will be addressed care of the offices of the I.W.A. CANADA, Local 1-184 and Employer representative care of the head officesof Saskfor MacMillan Limited Partnership.
13.	Training Program
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by Saskfor MacMillan Limited Partnership and the I.W.A. CANADA, Local 1-184.
76
ST JPPT yEMENT NO. 2
SAWMILL JOB EVALUATION PLAN
1.	Principles and Procedures
The implementation and administration of the job evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles and procedures set out in Manual dated December, 1971 andentitled “Interior Sawmill Industry Job EvaluationManual” as amended July, 1973 and as further amended July, 1974 (herein referred to as the “Manual”).
2.	Industry Job Evaluation Committee
There shall be a committee constitutedand named the industry Job Evaluation Committee (herein referred to as the “Sawmill Evaluation Committee”)to consist of one member representative of Interior Forest Labour Relations Association and one member representative of I.W.A. CANADA.
3.	Function of Sawmill Evaluation Committee
(a)	The Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall assume general responsibility for the administration of thejob evaluation program.
(b)	The unanimous decision of the said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
4.	Plant Job Review Committee
(a)	There shall be a committee constituted in each
77
SawmillPlant named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referred to as “Review Committee”) to consist of two members representative of Management and two members representative of the employees. At least one representative of Management must be a member of the Plant’s salaried staff or Management, and at least one representative of the employees must be an employee of the Plant whosejob is subject to SawmillJob Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed at the Plant, and the Union may do likewise except that effective January 1, 1975 neither party may choose as its representative a member of the Sawmill Evaluation Committee or any person who is employed as a job evaluator by Interior Forest Labour RelationsAssocia-tionorby I.W.A. CANADA.
(b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly-paid employees for time lost while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, regarding his/her ownjob, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly-paid employees.
5.	Function of Review Committee
(a) The Review Committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented
78
before being passed to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee for further action. The documents required will include a “Requestfor Job Evaluation” form submitted either by an individual employee or by local Management and a fully completed Job Description which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of the Sawmill Evaluation Committee. The form of the Documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them and the time limits for completion may be amended as required by the Sawmill Evaluation Committeeunder the authority given them by Article 3 of this supplement.
(b)	Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request for evaluation or reevaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limit, the Review Committeeshall at the request of any one of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
(c)	When the Sawmill Evaluation Committeehas made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job it shall communicate that decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management and the employees
79
concerned, giving reasons for the outeomewhere these are available. A deeisionof the Review Committeethat an Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee will, similarly, be communicated with reasons to those eoneerned.
(d)	Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Sawmill Evaluation Committee to determine the facts about anyjob, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend anyj ob descriptionon grading sheet submitted to tbem in support of a Request for Job Evaluation form.
6. Application of Program Thejob evaluation program shall apply to all employees in the sawmill industry except tbose categories listed below:
Millwright
Machinist
Blacksmith
Welder
Pipe Fitter - Including Sprinkler
Mechanics
Electrician
Painter
Carpenter
Bricklayer
Steam Fitter
Boilermaker
80
Bench Operator - Millwork Filers, Fitters and Helpers Engineers (Boiler House)
Fire Suppressor (Boiler House)
Grinder Operator Oiler
and Improversand Helpers to the above trades.
7.	Direction of Work
Job evaluation descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirements of the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restriction on the right of the Company to create a newjob or to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that if the assignment of such duties changes the job content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation, the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall make such a review in accordancewith the procedure set out herein.
8.	Reevaluation
(a)	When ajob has moved to a higher group as a result of re-evaluation, the resulting rate shall be retroactive from the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation.
(b)	When aj ob is moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation, the incumbentshall maintain his/her job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of
81
paragraph 10 herein.
9.	New Jobs Created
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a new job, a temporary rate shall be set by Management.
(a)	When the evaluated rate fora newjob is higher than the temporary rate, the resulting rate shall be retroactive from the date that the job was installed.
•
(b)	When the evaluatedrate for a newj ob is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbent(s) shall continue at the temporary rate.
10.	Fed Circled Jobs
(a)	The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circled jobs, the said list to include the name of the employee, name of the job category filled, the evaluated rate for thejob, and the actual rate paid.
(b)	Employeeson red circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
(c)	Employees holding red circlejobs who aredemoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for thejob to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is re-assignedto their former job they shall regain their red circle rate.
a2
(d)	When the Company terminates ajob, or ajob is not occupied during a period of one year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established.
(e)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company they shall retain their existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to theirregularjobthe said employee shall regain their red circle rate.
11.	Seniority
Subject to the provisions herein set out, Article II (Seniority) of this Agreement shall continue to apply.
12.	Referral Procedure
(a)	When the Sawmill Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriatePlant Job Review Committee.
(b)	When an employee’s request for re-evaluation results in no change being made in thejob grade, or in a reduction, or when a Management request results in no change or in an increase, the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall give to the appropriate Review Committee a short statementofthe reasons for the decision. The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficient depth to
83
show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
(c)	An evaluation done by the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall be final andbindingonthepartiesbut, at any time after five years since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of a job, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of thatjob and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
(d)	If the Sawmill Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the job evaluation program which falls within theirjuris-diction, the matter shall be referred to the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association and to I. W. A. CANADA for settlement.
(e)	All communication between any Plant Review Committee and the Sawmill Evaluation Committee referred to above shall be effected by sending one copy to the Union representative or representatives on the committee and one copy to the Employer representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of the appropriate Union Local and the employer representative care of the Company’s offices at the Plant. In the case of communications to the Sawmill Evaluation
84
Committee,the Union representative will be addressed care of the offices of the I. W, A. CANADA, and the Employer representativecare of the offices of Interior Forest Labour Relations Association.
13. Training Program
A program of training for members of the Review Committeein each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by Interior Forest Labour Relations Association and the I. W. A. Canada.
SUPPI [ENT NO 3 GROUP INSURANCE BENEFITS
:01
(a)	Ail employees that become insured under this plan shall continue to carry their policy as a condition of their employment. Ail new employees entering the service of the Company after the effective date of this Agreement and as soon as eligible, shall apply for and continue their policy under this plan as a condition of their employment.
(b)	All group insurancebenefits shown herein are to be paid one hundred percent (100%)by the Company.
(c)	The Company will not cover any part of the following that is covered by current or future Provincial and/or Federal Government health programs.
85
(d)	If in any of the following sections in this Article, legislation is passed preventing insurancecarriers from underwriting the coverage, then the Company will not be responsible for providing employees with this coverage.
(e)	Normal weekly earnings is defined as an employee’s regular straight time hourly rate times forty (40) hours. Normal annual earnings is defined as an em-ployee’sregular straight time rate times two thousand and eighty (2,080) hours.
:02 Life Insurance
The life insurance coverage for each employee is Sixty Thousand ($60,000.00) Dollars and insures only the life of the employee.
:03 Accidental Death and Dismemberment
The accidental death and dismemberment insurance coverage for each employee is Sixty Thousand ($60,000.00) dollars and insures only the employee.
:04 Weekly Indemnity
(a)	Disability Period - The plan will provide for a 52-week period of disability with benefits to commence the first day of non-compensable accident, first day of hospitalization and on the fourth day of sickness.
(b)	Coverage - the plan will provide for benefits of seventy (70%)percent of normal weekly earnings.
86
The employer will provide supplementary coverage to the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Such coverage will provide for benefits to be payable during such time as a claim with the Workers’ Compensation Board may be under appeal.
Should such an appeal to the Workers’ Compensation Board prove successful, payments from the Workers’ Compensation Board will be used to reimburse the Weekly Indemnity Plan for the interim coverage.
:05 Low-Term Disability
(a)	The Company will provide a suitable long-term disability program based on sixty (60%)percent of an employee’s normal annual earnings from the date of expiration ofWeekly Indemnity Coveragefor employees who are disabled from performing their own occupation for up to two (2) years. The Plan insures only the employee.
(b)	The Company will provide a suitable long-term disability program based on sixty (60%)percent of an employee’s normal annual earnings from the date cf expiration of LTD coveragein (a) above for employees who are disabled from performing any occupation to age sixty-five (65). The Plan insures only the employee.
:06 Abnormal Hospitalization
The Company will pay the full costs of the following
E7
coverage with no deductible limitations:
(a)	Full cost of semi-private accommodation in an accredited hospital.
(b)	Up to Five ($5.00) Dollars per day to a maximum of one hundred and eighty (180)dayswhileconftned in a registered nursing home or accredited convalescent hospital in any one year.
(c)	Hospitalization outside Canada including semiprivate accommodation and other hospital expenses. There is no daily maximum and theplan pays forninety (90%) percent of these incurred expenses.
:07 Maior Medical
Note: There is a Fifteen ($15.00) Dollar deductible per year per employee. The maximum payable by the insurance carrier under this section is Fifteen Thousand ($15,000.00) dollars per employee in any three
(3)	year period.
(a)	100% Coverage
(1)	Prescription drugs.
(2)	Professional ambulance service.
(3)	Diagnostic services not covered under Saskatchewan Medicare.
(4)	Medical appliances such as artificial limbs, wheelchairs, etc.
(5)	Charges for treatment by a licensed
88
chiropractor, naturopath, pediatrist or physiotherapist. This benefit is limited to $200 per person or $500 per family, per calendar year for each of the above specialties. X-rays ordered by these practitioners will not be covered by the Plan. Payments will be based on a fee schedule established by the carrier.
(b)	80% Coverage
(1)	Services of a registered nurse.
(2)	Hearing aids to a maximum of Three Hundred ($300.00) Dollars per family per year.
(3)	Private room up to Ten ($10.00) Dollars per day additional if recommendedby a licensed physician or surgeon.
:08 Vision Care for Employees and Dependants
Vision care expenses for the following supplies recommended by a legally qualified opthamalmogist or optometristevery twenty-four (24) months per person (12 months for individuals under 18 years of age).
1.	one set of single vision, bifocal or trifocal lenses (other than contact lenses).
2.	frames required to accommodate lenses but any charges in excess of One Hundred ($100.00) Dollars will be disregarded.
3.	one set of contact lenses. However, only one (1) set of lenses and/or frames or one (1) set of contact lenses
89
will be allowed in any twenty-four (24) month period (12 months for individuals under 18 years of age).
No benefits are pay able fer;
1.	replacement of lost, stolen or broken lenses or frames (when it occurswithin twenty-four (24) months [twelve (12) months if under the age of 18] from the date of purchase of the previous pair of glasses).
2.	duplicate or spare eyeglasses.
3.	sunglasses or tinted glasses with a tint other than number one.
4.	anti-reflective coatings.
:09 Dental Payment of Benefits
Covered dental expenses are the reasonable charges which an employeeis required to pay for the following services and supplies received by covered family members for the necessary treatment of any non-occupational injury or disease. However, any charges in excess of the amount specified for such services and supplies in the Dental Association Scheduleof Fees in your Province of residence will be disregarded. If alternate services may be performed for the treatment of a dental condition, the amount included as covered dental expenses shall not exceed the amount specified in such schedule for the least expensive service or
90
supply, which, as determined by the insurance company, will produce a professionally adequate result. Reimbursement of covered expenses will be made in accordance with the current Dental Tariff in force in your Province of residence at the time the expense is incurred.
Covered Expenses
The foilowingexpensesnumberl to VII arereimbursed eighty (80%) percent. Expenses VIII and IX are reimbursed at fifty (50%)percent. No deductible is required under the Dental Care Plan.
I	DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES
Ail necessary procedures to assist the dentist in evaluating the existingconditions to determine the required dental treatment, including:
Oral examinations Consultations
X-rays (complete mouth x-rays will be covered only once in a those (3) year period)
II	PREVENTATIVE SERVICES
All necessary procedures to prevent the occurrenceof oral disease, including:
Cleaning and scaling Topical application of fluoride Space maintainers
91
III	SURGICAL SERVICES
All necessary procedures for extractions and other surgical procedures normally performed by a dentist.
IV	RESTORATIVE SERVICES
All necessary procedures for filling teeth with amalgam synthetic porcelain, and stainless steel crowns. Gold inlays or onlays will be provided as a filling material only when teeth, in the professional opinionof a dentist, cannot be restored with any of the above materials. Gold foil will be provided only in cases of repair to pre-existing gold restorations.
V	PROSTHETIC REPAIRS
All necessary procedures required to repair or reline fixed or removable appliances.
VI	ENDODONTICS
Ail necessary procedures required for pulpal therapy
and root canal filling.
VII	PERIODONTICS
Ail necessary procedures for the treatment of tissues supporting the teeth.
VIII	PROSTHETIC APPLIANCES AND CROWNS AND BRIDGE PROCEDURES
(a)	Crowns and bridges
(b)	Partial and/orcompletedentures, but not more than
92
one in five (5) years. This work may be done by a dentist or a qualified certified denturist.
IX	ORTHODONTICS (for dependent children up to their 19th birthday)
The service of a certified orthodontist registered as suchby the Provincial Collegeof Dental Surgeonsonly after tbe patient has been covered continuously fir twelve (12) months. Appliances lost, broken or stolen will not be replaced.
Lifetime maximum is Two Thousand Five Hundred ($2,500.00) Dollars per person for all services provided by an Orthodontist.
EX___________SERVICES
(a)	Cosmetic dentistry.
(b)	Treatment covered by Workers’ Compensation Board or publicly supported plans.
(c)	Charges for services commencing prior to date of coverage.
(d)	Charges for completing forms.
EMERGENCY TREATMENT Emergency dental care will be provided anywhere in the world. If while you are travelling or on vacation outside your Province cf residence, you require dental care as a result of an emergency, you are entitled to service of a duly qualified dentist in the event of such emergency, and will be reimbursed up to the amount that the Plan would have paid had the services been
93
rendered in your Province of residence.
:10 Duration of Coverage and Coverage During Layoff
Insurancecoverage for an employee shall terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
(a)	On the date on which an employee suffers a loss entitling the employee to payment of the full principal sum.
(b)	On the date and time an employee leaves or is dismissed from employment or is retired or pensioned.
(c)	On the first day of the month coincidentwithor next following an employee’s 70th birthday.
(d)	in the event of layoff subjectto recall, an employee with more than oneyear service shallbe covered for the month layoff occurs plus three months; an employee with less than one year service shall be covered for the month layoff occurs plus one month; an employee hired as temporary staff shall receive coverage for the month layoff occurs only.
94
SUPPLEMENT NO. 4 CLERICAL
ARTICLE 33C - PROBATIONARY PERIOD
Clerical employees entering the service of the Employer shall be subjectto a probationaryperiod of three
(3)	months.
ARTICLE 34C -	NEI
(1)	On completionof the three (3) months’ probationary periodreferredto in Article33C, an employee shall be regarded as a permanent employee.
(2)	When, and if, itbecomes necessary to dispensewith the service of a permanent employee other than an employee dismissed for a major misdemeanour, the Employer shall give one (1) month’s notice in writing to such employee, provided that a sum equal to one (1) month’s wages may be paid to such employee in lieu of notice. In cases where the conduct of a permanent employee is considered by the Employer to warrant dismissal, such employee shall nevertheless not be dismissed except by agreement with the Union; but shall be suspended until the matter has been investigated by the Union and an agreement or settlement reached between the Employerand the Union as to the justification, or otherwise of the charges against the employee. At the expiration of seven (7) days the suspension, if not withdrawn, shall be considered a
95
notice of dismissal retroactive to the date of suspension. Notice of grievance, if any, must be lodged within the suspension period.
ARTICLE 35C - SICK LEAVE
(1)	When a statutory holiday falls within a period of absence which is due to sickness, the employee shall be paid for such holiday. Employees absent due to sickness shall be reimbursed for their normal loss of normal earnings by the Company for the first three (3) days. Weekly indemnity benefit will start on the fourth (4) day of a disability due to sickness and is payable up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks. Coverage is nonoccupational.
(2)	Every employee who may be absent from duty on account of sickness shall notify their immediate supervisor at once, and no employee shall be entitled to benefits for time previous to such notification unless delay shall be shown to have been unavoidable and satisfactory evidence of disability is furnished.
(3)	Before payment is made under sick leave benefits, the Employer may require a medical certificate or a written statement from the employee, and in cases of lengthy illness the Employer shall call for a physician's report from time to time as they deem necessary.
(4)	For the purpose of this Article, sickness shall include injury not covered by Workers' Compensation
96
benefits,
ARTICLE 36C - MISCFIIANFOIS
(1)	The Employer agrees to practice the principle of equal opportunity and equal pay for equal work, regardless of the sex of the employee.
(2)	Notwithstandinganything in this Agreement to the contrary, any employee other than an employee on a probationary basis now receiving a higher rate of pay than is called for under wage ratesherein shall not have such rate within their classificationreduced during the term of this Agreement.
(3)	Accrued time credits towards periodic increases shall not be affected by salary adjustmentsmade on the effective &te of this Agreement.
(4)	In the event of any provision of this Agreement or of any collective agreement concluded in pursuance hereof, or any of the practices established hereby being, or held to be contrary to the provisions of any applicable law now or hereafter enacted, neither this Agreement nor any such collective agreement shall be deemed to be abrogated, but shall be amended so as to make them conform to the requirements of such law.
(5)	Any employee taking educationaltraining that is to the Company’sadvantageshallhave the coursepaid for by the Company. The Company will decide if the
97
educational training is of sufficient benefit to justify the costs involved.
(6)	The Company shall supply electrical outlets for employees’ vehicles at no cost to the employees. The Company will continue to provide parking space at no cost for employees as long as it is able.
ARTTCLE37C - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
(1)	The basic hours of work for office employees shall be thirty-five (35) hours per week as follows:
Monday through Friday 8:30a.m. tol2:00noon, 1:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Start and stop times may be varied at each office location as long as the hours worked averagethirty-five (35) hours per week over a two week period.
(2)	A fifteen (15) minute rest period shall be allowed to all office employees in the morning and afternoon of each day.
(3)	When a clerical employee is required by their supervisors to work in excess of their regular hours in any one day, such employee shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) their regular rate for the first two (2) hours so worked and double their regular rate thereafter.
98
(4)	When employeesare on vacation the Company will makeevery reasonableattemptto have a majority of the work load on their desk covered.
(5)	Employees shall be advisedby 12 noon if overtime is required. If, after 12 noon, overtime is deemed necessary, overtime work will be voluntary to the employee.
ARTICLE 38C - MATERNITY LEAVE
Employeesshall be entitled to maternity leave and shall be able to return to their job held at the time their leave commenced. Employees shall be entitled to maternity leave with pay if they should have to apply before the U.I.C. maternity leave entitlement. The employee shallreceive Weekly Indemnitycoverageuptothetime she is entitled to the U.I.C. benefits. The same shall apply after the U.I.C. benefit expires. This clause is intended to cover unusual complications and does not provide for morning sickness.
ARTICLE 39C - LIFE INSURANCE CLERICAL Group Life
The Group Life Insurance coverage insures only the life of the employee.
The Group Life Insurance coverage is twice the employee’s annual salary with a minimum coverage of Twenty Thousand ($20,000.00) Dollars.
99
ARTICLE 40C - LEAVES OF ABSENCE 40:01
in caseofpressingemergency, special leaveof absence with pay may be granted. Pressing emergency is defined as the serious illness, death or accident to a member of the immediate family which includes: wife, husband, children, brother, sister, mother, father, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, spouse’s grandmother, spouse’sgrandfather, step-parents, grandchildren, legal guardian and ward of an employee. Such leave may be granted for other pressing emergencies to an extent considered to be fair and reasonable.
40:02
The Company may grant leave of absence without pay to employees for extendedvacation purposes subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Two (2) weeks additional vacation with a possible extension upon mutual agreement.
(b)	Maximum of two (2) employees per year from any one location. Maximum of one (1) employee at location with three (3) or less clerical union employees on staff.
(c)	Each employee a maximum of one (1) extended vacation in a three (3) year period.
too
40:03
Leave of absence will be granted with pay for educational up-grading to an employee who has at least one
(1)	year’s service and the employee’s educational training is advantageous to the Company. The Company shall decide if the educational training is of sufficient benefit to justify the costs involved. The Company will pay the cost of the training course.
ARTICLE 41C - FHIINC. VACANCIES
CLERICAL
41:01
Recruitmentto employmentwith the Employer shall be made according to their competency, to be ascertained with the methods of selection as may ssnjust and reasonable. All permanentjob postings will be posted company wide before the hiring is done.
41:02
A new employeewho has had previous experience shall be entitled to receive credit for such experience by a placement at a wage rate commensurate with such experience, provided full details of, and reasons for, such action is given to the Union not later than the effective &te of such action. If, at any time during the probationary period of such employee, the Employer or the Union wishes to review such salary placement with the object of adjustment, the matter shall be subject to negotiation and agreement between the
101
Employer and the Union.
41:03
When filling a new position or vacancy, the employer may requirethe employeeto take additionaltraining to fully qualify for the new position, This training will be agreed by the employer, the employee and the Union prior to the filling of the position. The cost of such training is to be paid by the Employer. If the employee doesnot completethe training as agreed in the specified time, this will provide the Employer withjust cause to have the employee return to the former position.
41:04
An employee upon appointment to a posted position shall be allowed a period of three (3) months in which to prove capable of filling such position. If an employee does not qualify within suchtime, the employee shall revert to the former position without loss of seniority, provided that if before the expiration of the prescribed period it appears to the Employer and to the Union that such employeeis incapableofqualifyingfor such position, the employee may be immediately required to revert to the employee’s former position.
41:05
An employee who is the successful applicant for a posted position and has had the previous experience in the duties required for the new position, shall be entitled to receive credit for such experience by a
102
placement in the wage range commensurate with the said experience.
41:06
Upon promotion to a position in a higher wage group an employee shall receive a salary adjustment at least equivalent to a full increment higher in the existing scale or the next one in the new scale higher but certainly not lower e.g. Group IV18 months awarded a Group VI will receive Group VI - 9 months rate.
ARTICLE 42C - VACATIONS
(1)	An employee who has completed one (1) year of continuous service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) weeks and shall receive their regular rate of pay or seven (7) percent, whichever is greater.
(2)	An employee who has completed nine (9) years of continuous service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) weeks and shall receive their regular rate of pay or nine (9) percent, whichever is greater.
(3)	An employee who has completed seventeen (17) years of continuous service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) weeks and shall receive their regular rate of pay or eleven (11) percent, whichever is greater.
103
(4)	Employees who on June 30 of any one year have been continuously employed for a period of less than one year shall be entitled to a vacation with pay in proportionto thenumber of months and daysof service computed to the nearest hour.
(5)	Employees who leave the service of the Employer before the end of the vacation year without having taken their vacation for that year shall receive a pro rata payment on the basis f the number f days of service subsequent to June 30 of the previous year computed to the nearest hour.
(6)	Employees who leave the service of the Employer after thirty (30) days shall be entitled to vacation with pay at the rate of one and one-quarter (1 1/4) working days per month of employment or major portion thereof.
(7)	Where a holiday falls within an employee’s annual vacation, such employee shall be allowed one (1) additional day’s vacation or pay at the regular rate in lieu of such additional day.
(8)	Annual vacations shall be regulated by a mutually agreed upon rotation plan to ensure equality for all employees regardless of seniority.
(9)	Every effort shall be made to permit the taking cf vacations between May 30 and October 31 of each
104
year. If an employee intends to take vacation during this period, the employee must advise the Company in writing prior to May 1st as to the period of vacation desired. The employer agrees to post the final vacation list by June 1st.
(10)	All annual vacations accrued by June 30 of any year shall be taken by June 30 of the succeedingyear. An employeeby so indicating in writing by May 1stof any year that he wishes to take two weeks only of his accrued holidays during the current vacation period has the right to have not more than five (5) working days accumulated and held over to the followingyear, when four (4) consecutive weeks may be taken at a time mutually agreed upon between the Employer and the Employee, provided that this privilege shall be limited to two employees in any one year.
(11)	An employee shall have the option of taking vacation in one continuousperiod or breaking vacation down to periods of shorter time.
105
CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS &RATES OF PAY
TD&I
Group	T pvpI Prem, 4/1/96	4/1/97 4/1/98
1 sta± c
6 Mos B 12 Mos A
15.09	15.54	15.85
15.39	15.85	16.17
15.70	16.17	16.49
2 Sta± D
6 Mos C 12 Mos B 18 Mos A
15.70	16.17	16.49
15.97	16.45	16.78
16.23	16,72	17.05
16.52	17.02	17.36
3 Start D
6 Mos	C
18 Mos	B
24 Mos	A
.40	16.52	17.02	17.36
16.74	17.24	17.58
16.96	17.47	17.82
17.20	17.72	18.07
4 Start D
9 Mos	C
18 Mos	B
24 Mos	A
,46	17.20	17.72	18.07
17.56	18.09	18.45
17,93	18.47	18,84
18.31	18.86	19.24
5 Start D
9 Mos C 18 Mos B 24 Mos A
.52	18.31	18,86	19.24
18.49	19,04	19.42
18.67	19.23	19.61
18.86	19,43	19.82
6 Stat D
9 Mos C 18 Mos B
24 Mos A
,58	18.86	19.43	19.82
18.96	19,53	19.92
19.08	19.65	20.04
19.19	19.77	20.17
7 Start D
9 Mos C 18 Mos B 24 Mos A
.58	19.19	19.77	20,17
19.41	19.99	20.39
19.62	20.21	20.61
19.84	20.44	20.85
106
*Training and Development Incentive Premiums
The parties hereby agree to the establishment of hourly pay premiums for employees who are reasonably competent, or become reasonably competent to perform other clerical classifications:
In order to qualify for such premiums, an employee must:
(a)	In order of seniority, be given, or have been given the opportunity to train and develop for a position providing thehighest premium available to them. Such training will be conducted as time and circumstance permits.
(b)	Receive the premium applicable for the highest classification incentive for which they are, or become reasonably competent to perform. It is expected that an employeeshall qualify for an incentivepremiumwithin three (3) months of starting training. Where it is determined,prior to the completion of three (3)months, that an employee requires additional time to demonstrate competency, an extension of the training period may be agreed to by the Company and the Union. Where there is no agreement or where it is determined that an employee will not be able to demonstrate competency, the employee will be returned to their formerjob duties at their former rate of pay.
107
(c)	When qualified and receiving a premium, agree to relieve and perform to reasonable satisfaction those jobs within the classification for which the premium is being paid. Training and Development Incentive Premiums will be paid for all hours worked in their own classificationwhen competencelevel is attained as per 3(b).
It is expected that an employee will move from step to step within the time frames set out in the Collective Agreement. Where an employee, however, has not been able to demonstratethe competency levels established due to prolonged absences from work, additional time, approximatingthe length of the prolonged absences, may be required to move to the next step.
Signed this____Day of_____> 1996
On behalf of Saskfor MacMillan Limited Partnership:
J. Robillard L. Pelletier A Borsa R. Smith D. Carroll
On behalf of I.W. A. Canada. Local 1-184: N. Menard D. Bonville P. Schultz G, Low D. Schmidt A. Lindberg
S.	Leffler
C.	Hallen
D.	Moskal
108