COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. Grande Prairie Operations
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL 446
Effective March 1, 2011 to
September 30, 2014
00967 (09)
Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
CAhFCto
Grande Prairie Operations
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL.................................... 5
Section 1 - Purpose ................................. 5
Section 2 - Mutual Responsibilities ................. 5
Section 3 - Pay for Voluntary Meetings .............. 6
Section 4 - Harassment .............................. 6
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS ............................... 6
Section 1 - Employee ................................ 6
Section 2 - Employment Categories ................... 7
Section 3 - Grievance ............................... 7
Section 4 - Gender Reference ........................ 8
ARTICLE 3- MANAGEMENT ................................. 8
Section 1 - Direction of Work ....................... 8
Section 2 - Employee Selection and Discipline........ 8
ARTICLE 4 - BARGAINING AGENCY ......................... 9
Section 1 - Recognition ............................. 9
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY ............................ 9
Section 1 - Cooperation ............................. 9
Section 2 - Union Shop............................... 9
Section 3 - Discharge of Non-Members (Constitutional) ... 9
Section 4 - Application for Membership ............. 10
Section 5 - Check-off .............................. 10
Section 6 - Dues Payment ........................... 10
ARTICLE 6 - CASUAL EMPLOYEES ......................... 10
Section 1 - Casual Employees’ Work.................. 10
Section 2 - Hours of Work .......................... 11
Section 3 - Benefits ............................... 11
Section 4 - Consideration for Hiring ............... 12
ARTICLE 7 - WAGES..................................... 12
Section 1 - Wage Scale ............................. 12
Section 2 - Wage Rate Determination ................ 13
Section 3 - Rate Protection ........................ 13
Section 4 - Pay Days ............................... 13
Section 5 - Premium Rates .......................... 14
Section 6 - Notice of Cancellation ................. 15
Section 7 - Call Time .............................. 16
1
Section 8 - Casual Employee Rates ................... 16
Section 9 - Welders.................................. 16
Section 10 - Lumber Graders and Log Scalers ......... 16
Section 11 - Return on Capital Employed
(ROCE) Payments .......................... 17
ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK............................... 18
Section 1 - Production Employees...................... 18
Section 2 - Millwrights, Maintenance, Repair and
Construction Employees and Watchmen....... 18
Section 3 - Casual Employees.......................... 19
Section 4 - Double Straight-Time Rates ............... 19
Section 5 - Completion of Shifts ..................... 19
Section 6 - Designation of Shifts..................... 19
Section 7 - Three-Shift Operation .................... 20
Section 8 - Lunch & Rest Periods ..................... 21
Section 9 - Notification of Absence .................. 21
Section 10 - Meals .................................. 21
Section 11 - Advance Notification of Return to Work . 22
ARTICLE 9 - ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULES ................. 22
ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY ................................ 25
Section 1 - Probation Period ........................ 25
Section 2 - Principle ............................... 26
Section 3 - Application ............................. 26
Section 4 - Departments ............................. 26
Section 5 - Reduction of Forces ..................... 27
Section 6 - Recall................................... 28
Section 7 - Retention of Seniority .................. 28
Section 8 - Seniority Lists ......................... 29
Section 9 - Transfer to Staff ....................... 29
ARTICLE 11 - JOB POSTING AND TRAINING ................. 29
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE ......................... 34
Section 1 - General Principles ...................... 34
Section 2 - Injury or Illness ....................... 35
Section 3 - Union Business........................... 35
Section 4 - Bereavement Leave ....................... 36
Section 5 - Jury Duty ............................... 36
Section 6 - Maternity / Parental Leave............... 36
2
Section 7 - Public Office........................... 37
Section 8 - Extended Vacations ..................... 37
Section 9 - Other................................... 38
ARTICLE 13 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS ...................... 38
ARTICLE 14 - PERSONAL AND FLOATING HOLIDAYS .... 39
Section 1 - Floating Holiday........................ 39
Section 2 - Floating Holiday Entitlement............ 40
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS WITH PAY....................... 40
Section 1 - One to Two Years’ Service............... 40
Section 2 - Two Years’ Service ..................... 41
Section 3 - Seven Years’ Service.................... 41
Section 4 - Fifteen Years’ Service ................. 41
Section 5 - Twenty-Four Years’ Service ............. 41
Section 6 - Thirty Years’ Service .................. 42
Section 7 - Vacation Scheduling .................... 42
Section 8 - Time Included for Vacation Entitlement . 42
ARTICLE 16 - SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH .... 43
Section 1 - Principles ............................. 43
Section 2 - Joint Health & Safety Committee......... 43
Section 3 - Compensation ........................... 44
Section 4 - Fatal Accident ......................... 44
ARTICLE 17 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ..................... 44
Section 1 - Committee .............................. 44
Section 2 - Procedure .............................. 44
Section 3 - Abandonment ............................ 45
ARTICLE 18 - ARBITRATION ............................. 45
Section 1 - Principles ............................. 45
Section 2 - Expenses ............................... 47
Section 3 - Location ............................... 47
ARTICLE 19 - HEALTH AND WELFARE .................. 47
ARTICLE 20 - LONG TERM DISABILITY................. 49
ARTICLE 21 - DENTAL PLAN.......................... 49
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE FAMILY ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM ............................. 50
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY EQUIPMENT .................... 50
ARTICLE 24 - PENSION PLAN ........................ 51
ARTICLE 25 - APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT ............ 51
3
Section 1 - Wage Rates for Apprentices ............ 52
Section 2 - Expenses............................... 53
Section 3 - Selection of Apprentices .............. 53
Section 4 - Right to Continue...................... 54
Section 5 - Tests ................................. 55
Section 6 - Tools ................................. 55
ARTICLE 26 - TOOL INSURANCE ......................... 55
ARTICLE 27 - CONTRACTING OUT......................... 56
ARTICLE 28 - GENERAL PROVISIONS ..................... 56
Section 1 - Letters of Understanding & Supplements. 56
Section 2 - Coveralls........................ 56
Section 3 - Medical Examinations............. 57
Section 4 - Bulletin Boards ....................... 57
Section 5 - Disability Management Committee........ 57
Section 6 - Job Evaluations ....................... 57
ARTICLE 29 - PERMANENT PLANT CLOSURE ................ 58
ARTICLE 30 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE ................... 58
Section 1 - Advance Notification .................. 58
Section 2 - Severance Pay ................... 59
Section 3 - Rate Adjustment ................. 59
ARTICLE 31 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT............. 59
WAGE SCHEDULE ................................. 61
SAWMILL AND PLANER UTILITY POSITIONS .......... 70
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK SCHEDULE -
MAINTENANCE ................................ 73
SEASONAL JOB POSTING POLICY ................... 78
ENTRY LEVEL POSITIONS ......................... 80
INTERMITTENT PLANER GRAVEYARD SHIFT............ 81
VACATION RELIEF TRAINING ...................... 83
WEEKEND CLEANUP OVERTIME ...................... 85
NORTHERN TRAVEL ............................... 86
CLAIMS DISPUTE RESOLUTION...................... 87
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULE FOR KILN OPERATOR ... 90
4
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT dated the 1st day of March, A.D. 2011 BETWEEN:
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. Grande Prairie Operations
(hereinafter known as the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446
Grande Prairie, Alberta
(hereinafter known as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL Section 1 - Purpose
The general purpose of this Agreement is, in the mutual interest of the employer and the employee, to provide for the operation of the Plant (or Plants) hereinafter mentioned under methods which will further, to the fullest extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output, cleanliness of Plant and protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company and the Union to cooperate fully for the advancement of said conditions.
Section 2 - Mutual Responsibilities
It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company to explain fully the terms of this Agreement to all its officers, foremen, and others engaged in a supervisory capacity and it is
5
recognized to be the duty of the Union to explain fully to its members their responsibilities and obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3 - Pay for Voluntary Meetings
If the Company calls a meeting to be attended by employees on a voluntary basis outside of their normal scheduled hours of work, employees will be reimbursed at their regular straight time hourly rate for any time spent at the meeting. The meetings that will be paid are as follows: EFAP Committee, Donations Committee, Employee Survey Committee, Safety Committee, and Safety Subcommittee meetings. This list can be changed by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
Whenever possible, meetings will be scheduled during normal working hours.
Section 4 - Harassment
The Company will maintain a harassment free environment. All harassment complaints will be handled as confidentially as possible.
Definition of Harassment
Harassment is defined as unwanted behaviour of a personal, sexual or racial nature that is directed at and is offensive to an individual.
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS
Wherever used in this Agreement, including exhibits:
Section 1 - Employee
The word “employee” means any person on the payroll of the Company at the location (or locations) named in this Agreement excepting: office, credit and secretarial staff, sales staff, security guards, employees engaged in logging operations in Grande Prairie and those persons performing
6
managerial or industrial relations functions as defined by the Alberta Labour Relations Act.
Section 2 - Employment Categories
a)	“Casual” employees are hired for the purpose of weekend work.
b)	“Probationary” employees are employees who have not completed thirty (30) working days within ninety (90) calendar days following the date of entering employment.
c)	“Regular” employees are employees who have completed their thirty (30) day probationary period.
d)	A “Chargehand” is a Union member who, under the direction of Management, has been assigned the duties of relaying instructions, advising Management of the progress of the work and assisting Management and crews in the common effort of maintaining the highest standards of safety, quality and quantity of production.
A chargehand does not have the authority to hire, discipline or discharge another Union member.
Candidates will be selected based on a number of factors including: safety, communication skills and leadership ability. One person from the Union Executive will participate in the interview process.
No employee will be denied vacation as a result of an employee being a chargehand.
Section 3 - Grievance
“Grievance”, “dispute”, or “complaint” means any difference between the persons bound by this Agreement concerning its interpretation, application, operation, or any alleged violation thereof, and “Party” means either one of the parties to this Agreement.
7
Section 4 - Gender Reference
It is understood that references to masculine gender shall be interchangeable with feminine gender throughout this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
Section 1 - Direction of Work
The management of the operation and direction and promotion of the employees is vested exclusively in the management, provided, however, that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
Employees outside the bargaining unit will not perform work that is normally done by employees in the bargaining unit. However, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting supervisors from doing work for purposes of instruction, provided in so doing a lay-off of bargaining unit employees does not result, or in the case of an emergency when regular employees are not available, provided that every reasonable effort is made to find a replacement.
Section 2 - Employee Selection and Discipline
The Company shall have the right to select its employees and discipline or discharge them for just cause.
An employee shall be advised by the Company that he has the right to have a Union Shop Steward or Executive Officer present before the Company disciplines him. In the case of discipline involving suspension or discharge, a Union Shop Steward or Executive Officer must be present.
The Company shall have the right to maintain a copy of warnings in the file of each employee PROVIDED HOWeVEr that once an employee has gone a period of twelve (12) months without accumulating a further warning, the previous warnings will be removed from the employee’s file and destroyed by the Company.
8
Employees shall have the right to review their personnel files and request photocopies of material contained therein. Arrangements to view files are to be made through the Personnel Office.
ARTICLE 4 - BARGAINING AGENCY Section 1 - Recognition
The Company recognizes the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada and the Union as the only agency representing all employees as defined in this Agreement for the purpose of collective bargaining.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY
Section 1 - Cooperation
The Company will cooperate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present to new employees and to all supervisors and foremen the policy herein expressed.
Section 2 - Union Shop
Any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall as a condition of continued employment, maintain membership in good standing in the Union throughout the term of this Agreement and without limiting the foregoing, all employees hired during the term of this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, become a member of the Union thirty (30) calendar days after becoming employed by the Company.
Section 3 - Discharge of Non-Members (Constitutional)
Any employee who fails to maintain membership in good standing in the Union shall be discharged after seven (7) days’ written notice to the Company by the Union of the employee’s failure to maintain membership in good standing.
9
Section 4 - Application for Membership
No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the constitution and By-Laws of the National Union and Local Union. A copy of such constitution and By-Laws and any changes thereto, shall be transmitted to the Company.
Section 5 - Check-off
The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to execute an assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union. All the check-off forms are to be forwarded to the Local Union within fifteen (15) days of hiring.
Section 6 - Dues Payment
This assignment in the case of the employees already members of the Union shall be effective immediately, and for those employees not previously members of the Union, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution. The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked in writing by the employee) to the Union named therein not less than once each month with a written statement of the names of employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
ARTICLE 6 - CASUAL EMPLOYEES
Section 1 - Casual Employees’ Work
Casual employees shall only be permitted to do the following work:
i.	Cleanup
Mill areas - General Cleanup
Yard - General Cleanup including piling spilled loads Shop - General Cleanup of vehicles, including steam cleaning and cleanup of shops
10
ii Maintenance
Helpers
Sparkwatch
Casual employees are not eligible to become regular employees or perform the duties of regular employees unless they terminate the casual workforce and are re-hired into the permanent workforce.
Section 2 - Hours of Work
Casual employees will not be guaranteed any number of hours per week. Hours of work available to casual employees will be allocated on the basis of seniority within the casual group.
a)	Casual employees will be responsible for knowing what work is available to them on a weekly basis. This can be confirmed by phoning our office or discussing future work availability with the cleanup supervisor.
b)	In the event of a change in condition or following a curtailment period, the Company will make every effort to contact all casual employees.
Section 3 - Benefits
Casual employees are not entitled to benefits except as follows:
a)	Vacation pay calculated at four percent (4%) of gross earnings.
b)	Coveralls will be supplied, at Company expense, to all casual employees with the understanding that:
-	The coveralls will be the sole responsibility of the employee, including periodic cleaning.
-	If the employee is not with the Company for a period of six (6) months or more, the coveralls must be returned in good condition. If this is not done, the employee will be charged for the coveralls (based on a six-month
11
depreciation of the coverall).
- New coveralls will be issued to casual employees as required, but replacement will not be made for lost or stolen coveralls.
Section 4 - Consideration for Hiring
It is agreed between the parties that Casual employees, upon termination of their position as Casual, who desire employment in a regular position will inform the Company of their desire and will be given first consideration for hiring to a regular position. This consideration does not constitute a guarantee for hiring and is contingent on the employee having satisfied the basic criteria used in hiring all new Regular employees.
ARTICLE 7 - WAGES
Section 1 - Wage Scale
a)	Effective March 1, 2011, an across the board wage rate adjustment of one dollar ($1.00) per hour for all certified journeyman trades categories, and corresponding pro-rated rate adjustments for all non-certified journeyman trades categories and apprentice categories.
b)	Effective October 1, 2011, the wages of all hourly rated employees will be increased by two percent (2%) per hour.
c)	Effective October 1, 2012, the wages of all hourly rated employees will be increased by two percent (2%) per hour.
d)	Effective October 1, 2013, the wages of all hourly rated employees will be increased by two percent (2%) per hour.
e)	Should Canfor negotiate monetary improvements with the USW during the 2013 contract renewal negotiations for Canfor’s BC operations, the Company would implement any first year monetary improvements with Local 446, effective October 1, 2013. For example, should there be a wage increase negotiated in excess of 2% in the first year of the
12
USW contract, such increase will be implemented in the Grande Prairie operation effective October 1,2013.
Section 2 - Wage Rate Determination
The Company reserves the right to establish or revise job classifications as well as the new hourly rate for the job classification so established or revised during the life of this Agreement.
The Company agrees to notify the Union upon the establishment of such job classification and wage rate and the Union shall have thirty (30) days after such notification within which to request that the rate so established be made the subject of collective bargaining.
In the event the Company receives no request within such period, the rate shall be deemed acceptable and shall become part of this Agreement. In the event that the rate is made the subject of collective bargaining, the Company and the Union shall meet as soon as may be convenient to commence bargaining regarding the new rate.
Section 3 - Rate Protection
a)	Employees who are directed by the Company to work on a higher paid job, if their regular job is available, will receive the rate for the higher paid job.
b)	Employees who are directed by the Company to work on a lower paid job, if their regular job is available, will be paid their regular job rate.
Section 4 - Pay Days
The Company shall provide for pay days every second week and each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions. Whenever possible, employees shall receive their pay cheques and statements in sealed envelopes.
13
In order to minimize the impact to maintenance employees working the Compressed Work Week Schedule, the company will change the pay week to Monday to Sunday. The change will be made as soon as practicable, in consultation with the Corporate Payroll Department.
Section 5 - Premium Rates
a)	The first shift, which may vary in individual operations, is the recognized day shift. Hours worked outside the recognized day shift will be regarded as the second and third shifts. Premium rate of thirty-one cents ($0.31) per hour will be paid for the second and third shifts. Day shift employees working in excess of eight (8) hours will be paid rate and one-half without the differential. Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the applicable per hour premium rate as specified in this section for all hours worked outside the recognized day shift.
Premium rate of fifty cents ($0.50) per hour will be paid to tradesmen (including apprentices) working the graveyard shift.
Premium rate of thirty-one ($0.31) per hour will be paid to maintenance employees working the Compressed Weekend schedule.
b)	i. All certified lumber graders shall receive the premiums
set out below in addition to their hourly rate:
3-year ticket	$.35 per hour
1 -year ticket	$.20 per hour
provided that these premium rates shall be paid only when actually engaged as lumber graders.
ii.	Any employee holding a three-year or one-year ticket shall receive a premium of $.10 per hour for all hours worked. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
c)	It is agreed that a Tradesman employed by the Company
14
who holds more than one trade ticket and, as part of his regular job required by the Company, applies the knowledge of his ticketed trades as part of his regular duties, will be paid an additional thirty (30) cents per hour above his regular job rate.
d)	It is further agreed that a Tradesman employed by the Company who holds more than two tickets and, as part of his regular job as required by the Company, applies the knowledge of his ticketed trades as part of his regular duties, will be paid the highest trade rate as designated in the wage supplement for the trade tickets plus an additional forty (40) cents per hour.
3) Shift differential and graders’ premiums will be paid on Statutory Holidays, Personal Floaters and Floating Holidays.
Section 6 - Notice of Cancellation
a)	If employees present themselves for work and, due to any conditions beyond their control there is no work available, they shall receive two (2) hours pay unless sufficient warning has been given canceling the work call for the day.
It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given canceling the work call for the first or day shift provided notice has been given over radio stations 97.7 FM and Big Country 93.1 not later than one and one-half (1 1/2) hours before the shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour period.
It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given canceling the work call for the afternoon shift when notice has been given over the radio stations 97.7 FM and Big Country 93.1 not later than one and one-half (1 1/2) hours before the shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour period.
It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given canceling the work call for the graveyard shift when notice has been given over the radio stations 97.7 FM and Big
15
Country 93.1 not later than one and one-half ( 1 1/2) hours before the shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour period.
b)	When an employee is called for work and starts work, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate unless his work is suspended because of inclement weather or other reasons completely beyond the control of the Company. If work is suspended for reasons completely beyond the control of the Company, the employee will be paid for time actually worked.
Section 7 - Call Time
Any employee called to work on his designated day off, on Sunday, on a Statutory Holiday, or after having left the plant after working his regular shift, will be paid a minimum of three (3) hours at rate and one-half (1 1/2).
If he is then required to perform any other work than which necessitated the call-in, he will be paid at rate and one-half (1 1/2) for all time worked.
Section 8 - Casual Employee Rates
All casual employees will be paid at base rate.
Section 9 - Welders
Employees employed as welders and who are required by the Company to renew or upgrade their welding qualifications shall be granted up to five (5) days paid leave of absence to attend school for instruction. The Company shall pay the cost of instruction and examination.
Section 10 - Lumber Graders and Log Scalers
Employees of the Company who, by mutual agreement, train or retrain for lumber grading and log scaling certificates will be compensated in the following manner:
16
a)	The Company will pay the cost of materials required to those employees who take the courses.
b)	The Company will pay lost time wages to employees who take the courses.
c)	Employees who train or retrain for lumber grading will be selected on the following basis:
1.	Current graders whose certificate or permit is expiring will take priority.
2.	Remaining employees will be selected by seniority within their department, but in selecting those employees, consideration will be given to avoiding depletion of crews in any one department which will impair production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Union will cooperate with the Company.
Section 11 - Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) Payments
Effective October 1, 2012, a variable pay component of compensation will be implemented for the duration of the agreement. Payment will be provided on a quarterly lump sum basis, based on the following table:
ROCE as Reported Quarterly by Canfor (Solid Wood results,
excluding CPLP)	
ROCE	Quarterly Profit Pay
3%	140.00
4%	191.00
5%	241.00
6%	292.00
7%	342.00
8%	393.00
9%	444.00
10%	494.00
11%	545.00
12%	595.00
13%	646.00
17
14%	696.00
15%	747.00
16%	798.00
17%	848.00
18%	899.00
19%	949.00
20%	1000.00
Payments will be pro-rated based on the above table
ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK
Section 1 - Production Employees
a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive. Rate and one-half shall be paid for any hours worked over eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.
b)	The Parties to this Agreement agree that the Company has the right to operate its plant or plants or any part thereof on a continuous seven-day schedule.
c)	All worked performed on Sunday except for work performed by casual employees shall be paid at rate and one-half provided the regular employee has worked at least one shift in the preceding week.
Section 2 - Millwrights, Maintenance, Repair and
Construction Employees and Watchmen
a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day, with two (2) days of rest each week, Monday through Sunday. Such days of rest will be consecutive days, unless mutually agreed to be otherwise, between the employee and the Company.
b)	Overtime shall be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, on Sunday if worked, and on the employee’s two (2) designated days of rest if worked.
18
Section 3 - Casual Employees
Casual employees will be paid straight time for Saturday and Sunday if worked.
Section 4 - Double Straight-Time Rates
Notwithstanding the foregoing, double straight-time rates will be paid for:
a)	All hours worked in excess of eleven (11) per day.
b)	All hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
c)	For the purpose of (b) herein, a Statutory Holiday will be considered a shift worked.
d)	Item (b) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
Section 5 - Completion of Shifts
It is agreed between the parties that if one (1) hour or less is necessary after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding a Statutory Holiday in order to complete the shift which commenced on Friday afternoon or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, the time worked after midnight to complete the shift would be paid at straight time.
Section 6 - Designation of Shifts
a)	The first shift, which may vary from time to time as determined by the Company, shall be designated the Day Shift. The second shift, following the Day Shift, shall be designated the Afternoon Shift. The third shift, following the Afternoon shift, shall be designated the Graveyard Shift. Shifts shall be rotated on a basis mutually agreeable to the Company and the Union.
b)	It is agreed between the parties that production and labour
19
positions on a non-rotating graveyard shift will be recognized as unique from the same position on a rotating shift.
Under the terms of this Agreement, job postings will specify whether the position is for graveyard or rotating shift.
c)	The Company shall post notices in the plant stating details of starting and ending time of shifts, and shall give no less than one (1) full working day’s notice of changes thereof.
d)	If a change in the posted shift schedule results in an employee having to change shifts after the start of the work week, overtime will be paid for the first shift resulting from the change.
e)	The parties to this Agreement agree that the Company has the right to operate its plant or any parts thereof for nine (9) hours per shift, the said nine (9) hours to constitute the regular hours of work per day. The Company shall retain the right to determine shift length up to nine (9) hours per shift in any unit or department of the operation. Rate and one-half shall be paid for any hours worked over eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.
f)	The Company agrees to give at least ten (10) working days notice in writing of change from an eight (8) hour shift schedule to a nine (9) hour shift schedule and at least three (3) working days notice in writing of a change from a nine (9) hour shift schedule to an eight (8) hour shift schedule. The change in shift schedule from an eight (8) hour shift to a nine (9) hour shift will be implemented at the beginning of a work week.
Section 7 - Three-Shift Operation
a) The Company shall have the right to operate its plant or any part thereof on a three-shift basis, and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Company’s option.
20
b)	It is agreed that (a) above shall apply to only those employees actually working on a three-shift basis.
c)	The Company shall have the right to determine the number of shifts operated in any unit or department of the operation.
d)	Where less than three shifts are worked, Clause (a) shall not apply.
e)	The foregoing provision of this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 8 - Lunch & Rest Periods
Employees shall have two (2) ten (10) minute paid rest periods during each shift, one within each half of a shift at a time designated by the Company, which shall not be earlier than one (1) hour into each half shift nor later than one (1) hour before the end of each half shift.
During the graveyard short shift there shall be one (1) ten (10) minute paid rest period.
Employees will be allowed one (1) thirty (30) minute lunch break as designated during each regular shift.
Section 9 - Notification of Absence
When an employee is unavoidably prevented from reporting for his scheduled shift, if reasonably possible, he must give notice to his foreman, or at the Company office, at least two (2) hours before the shift commences.
Section 10 - Meals
When an employee is notified during his normal shift that he will be required to work two (2) or more hours overtime beyond that shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal, such meal to be consumed on Company time.
21
Where the employee declines the meal, the Company will provide the employee with a Ten Dollar ($10.00) payroll credit.
The foregoing shall not apply to overtime which is scheduled prior to the commencement of the normal shift, provided that a minimum of three (3) hours notice prior to the commencement of the normal shift is given.
Section 11 - Advance Notification of Return to Work
Where an employee has been off work due to illness or injury for more than two (2) days, he must advise the Company at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance regarding his ability to return to work.
In the case of shorter absences, notice must be given by 12:00 noon for Afternoon shift and prior to the end of the working day previous for Day shift.
ARTICLE 9 - ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULES
Management shall have the right to implement the following shift schedules
•	4-10s Monday-Thursday
•	4-10s Tuesday-Friday
•	3-12s Friday-Sunday
•	3-12s Saturday-Monday
When alternative shift schedules have been implemented in accordance with the above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A.	Rate and one-half shall be paid for the following:
i)	After the completion of the regularly scheduled shift.
ii)	Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or
forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
22
iii)	All hours worked on an employee’s scheduled rest day,
unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
iv)	All hours worked on Sunday except those excluded in
the casual section.
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	All hours worked in excess of eleven (11) in any day of
the week except for twelve (12) hour shifts. For twelve (12) hour shifts, all hours in excess of the regular shift.
ii)	All hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday is also an
employee’s scheduled rest day, if the employee has worked forty (40) straight-time hours in the preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
iii)	For those employees that work the alternate weekend
shift, the second overtime shift worked in a given week outside the shift schedule will be paid doubletime for hours worked.
C.	Pay for weekend schedule:
i) Employees working a three (3) day, twelve (12) hour weekend schedule, will be paid forty two (42) hours for their regular schedule. The pay for those regular hours will be averaged over the three (3) days.
General Principles
When these alternate shift schedules are in effect other provisions of the Collective Agreement will be administered on the principle that an employee will not lose or gain any benefits over his normal five-day schedule.
1. The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intention is to increase the use of
23
casual employees in place of regular employees.
2.	Different parts of an operation may be scheduled on different shifts.
3.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
4.	Other Articles of the Collective agreement, which provide benefits after eight (8) hours, are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
5.	There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are changed because of the implementation of an alternate shift schedule.
6.	When an alternate shift schedule is in effect, hourly-based benefits (LTD, Pension) under the Collective Agreement will be administered on the basis of hours paid.
7.	The Company will not change an employee’s work schedule to avoid a statutory holiday.
8.	For ten (10) hour shifts, rest periods will be one (1) ten (10) minute break and one (15) minute break plus a one-half (1/2) hour unpaid meal break.
9.	For twelve (12) hour shifts, rest periods will be two (2) fifteen (15) minute breaks plus a one-half (1/2) hour paid meal break.
10.	Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and New Year’s Day are operational down-days.
11.	Statutory and Floating Holidays will be paid as per the employee’s regular schedule.
12.	Bereavement Leave and Jury Duty shall be paid consistent with Article 12, Section 4 & 5. These days will be paid at the regular daily wage consistent with the work schedule.
24
13.	Shift Differential shall be paid only for those hours worked outside the recognized dayshift for those employees working the alternate schedule in effect for that crew working in that part of the operation.
14.	The Company will provide notice of two weeks prior to the introduction of and/or the discontinuance of any alternate shift. Prior to the implementation of an alternate shift, the Company will meet with the Union to discuss start and stop times.
15.	For those employees working an alternate shift, the probationary period will be thirty (30) working days.
16.	All other provisions of the collective agreement will apply except for those that are modified by this section.
17.	Management and the Local Union shall have the right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturing operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour week is maintained over an averaging period. Rate and one-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
18.	Positions will be posted and awarded to the senior applicants. Positions that are not filled through posting will be assigned by reverse seniority.
ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY
Section 1 - Probation Period
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, it shall be mutually agreed that all employees are hired on probation, the probationary period to continue until thirty (30) days have been worked, during which time they are to be considered probationary employees only, and during this same period, no seniority rights shall be recognized.
25
Upon completion of thirty (30) days worked, they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company’s employ, provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) days worked shall only be cumulative within the ninety (90) calendar days following the date of entering employment.
Section 2 - Principle
a)	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority, competency considered.
b)	When making promotions, the Company agrees to give due consideration to length of service.
c)	Where the Company operates more than one plant, each plant will be considered separately for seniority purposes, except where the Union and the Company agree upon some different arrangement.
Section 3 - Application
a)	The application of seniority shall be based first on department and second on plant seniority.
b)	Promotions within a department will be based on plant seniority, competency considered.
Section 4 - Departments
Departments for seniority purposes shall be:
a)	Maintenance and miscellaneous
b)	Production
When an employee bids into a department and is confirmed in the department, his plant and department seniority will be equal.
26
Section 5 - Reduction of Forces
a)	In the event of a reduction of forces, the last person hired shall be the first released subject to the provisions of Section 2(a) of this Article.
b)	Prior to a reduction of forces, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the application of seniority of those employees who remain on the job, but whose jobs have been eliminated as a result of the reduction of the work force. Senior employees will be given the opportunity, in line with seniority, to perform jobs for which they are competent.
c)	Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions, the application of seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding five (5) working days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Union as soon as possible.
d)	In the event of a reduction of forces within a department, the employee with last plant seniority will be the first out of the department. The employees affected by the reduction may apply seniority in accordance with (a) above or the employee may, by request, revert to their previously held jobs within the department, providing they have plant seniority to remain in the department.
e)	In the event of a reduction of forces, total plant seniority will be applied as follows:
The last person hired shall be the first released, according to plant seniority, competency considered.
f)	For the purpose of this Agreement, temporary reductions shall mean a period not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days, subject to review and extension by the parties prior to the end of each thirty (30) day period.
g)	Prior to any reduction of forces, the Company and Union Executive will meet to discuss such things as: application of
27
seniority as it affects employees both remaining and laid off, as well as the length of time of the reduction.
h)	In the event of a reduction of forces that is expected to exceed thirty (30) calendar days, the Company will afford reasonable training opportunities to senior employees who are unable to exercise their seniority, competency considered, in order to bump to an entry level position. Such training will not exceed fifteen (15) days.
Section 6 - Recall
a)	It is agreed that when employees are to be recalled after layoff, it shall be done on the basis of the last person released shall be the first person recalled, subject to the provisions of Section 2(a). It is agreed that in cases of emergency the application of plant seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding three (3) days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Union immediately.
b)	It is agreed that when recalling employees laid off due to seasonal shutdown or reduction of the working forces, they will be notified in order of plant seniority by communication to their last known address, prior to starting of operations.
c)	It shall be the Company’s responsibility to maintain an address file of employees and it shall be the employee’s responsibility to keep the Company informed in writing of any change of address.
Section 7 - Retention of Seniority
It is agreed between the parties that seniority during layoffs shall
be retained on the following basis:
a)	Employees with less than one (1) year’s service will retain their seniority for a period of six (6) months.
b)	Employees with one (1) or more years of service shall retain
28
their seniority for one (1) year plus one (1) additional month for each year of service up to an additional six (6) months.
c)	A laid-off employee’s seniority retention as defined in (a) and (b) above is reinstated upon the completion of one (1) day’s work.
Section 8 - Seniority Lists
It is agreed that upon the request of the Union, a list will be supplied by the Company setting out the name and the starting date with the Company of each regular employee on a plant basis. The Company will advise the Union once each month of changes to the said list.
Section 9 - Transfer to Staff
In the case where an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory position, he will continue to accumulate seniority for a period of ninety (90) consecutive calendar days. At any time during the ninety (90) day probationary period, the individual shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit in the job which he previously held.
At the expiration of the period mentioned above, his seniority will be frozen. Thus, if at a later date, he ceases to be a supervisor and the Company desires to retain his services, it is hereby agreed that reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit provided, however, that any employee so reinstated must return to an entry level job. For seniority purposes, he shall have his frozen seniority plus his newly accumulated seniority.
An employee shall only be entitled to one (1) such ninety (90) calendar day period within an eighteen (18) month period.
ARTICLE 11 - JOB POSTING AND TRAINING
The purpose of the Job Posting and Training Program is to select senior persons for training in the Production Department and thereby afford them the opportunity to become competent to perform other jobs in the operation.
29
Job Posting, Training Procedure and Seniority Clarification
1.	The Company shall have the right to temporarily fill the job vacancy subject to the job posting procedure and seniority clarification.
2.	a) All permanent vacancies shall be posted.
b)	The vacancy will be awarded to the senior applicant, only assigning to the junior person not holding a position if there are no other bids.
c)	Temporary vacancies of less than four (4) weeks shall not be posted, and temporary vacancies on entry level positions shall not be posted unless they are to exceed six (6) weeks. Short notice (less than 30 days) temporary vacancies of less than six (6) weeks, shall not be posted.
d)	In filling the non-posted temporary vacancies, senior employees, competency considered, will be given preference.
e)	Weekly Indemnity and Workers’ Compensation related vacancies of more than six (6) weeks will be posted and will expire upon the return of the absent employee to regular full time employment but no later than one hundred and eighty (180) days after the leave commenced. The successful applicant will be required to fill the vacancy for the duration of that period.
If the employee has not returned to work when the temporary position expires, the position will be posted as permanent.
f)	Employees filling the vacancies created in e) above will return to their previously held bid positions on the return of the employee causing the vacancy.
g)	The parties hereby agree that if an employee becomes unable to perform his / her normal job duties for any reason, such employee will be placed in another job category for
30
which the employee has sufficient seniority in accordance with Article 10 - Seniority, Section 2 (a).
3.	Vacancies will be posted on job posting bulletin board for a period of three (3) working days (excluding Saturday and Sunday).
4.	Only written bids will be accepted using a process mutually agreed on by the company and the union.
5.	The name of the successful candidate will be written on the original posting and re-posted for a period of two (2) working days.
6.	All bid refusals must be in writing on the forms provided.
7.	All bids will be filed.
8.	Names of applicants will be listed on the file copy of the posting.
9.	The Union shall receive a list of the bids.
10.	Successful bidders for permanent vacancies involving lateral or downward bids will be limited to two (2) every six (6) months. It is agreed that bids for higher paid jobs will not be limited, with the exception of frivolous bidding for which the Company and the Union shall agree to limitations.
11.	Successful bidders shall be placed on jobs as soon as possible, but not later than thirty (30) working days from the date of declaring the successful bidder. In the event of problems arising from this section, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the application.
12.	If the successful bidder has been previously declared competent on the job for which he is bidding, the fifteen (15) working day trial period will not apply. The parties agree if an employee has been selected and the job for which he has been selected requires a longer training period than fifteen (15) working days, the training period can be extended but
31
not to exceed twenty (20) working days. Extension of the fifteen (15) working day trial period shall be by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
13.	During the above trial period, the Company can, for good and sufficient cause, return the employee to his original job. The employee may, during the above trial period, voluntarily return to his original job.
14.	If an employee is declared incompetent in a certain job:
a)	He cannot again apply for that vacancy for one (1) year.
b)	He goes back to his original position
15.	If an employee is declared incompetent or declines the posting, the next candidate on the posting will be accepted. This process will continue until an employee is successfully trained and considered competent. However, if there is no activity on the posting for a period of thirty (30) calendar days, it must be re-posted.
16.	When a vacancy has been posted and the successful candidate is chosen and the same job becomes vacant, it is agreed that the next senior competent bidder will be given the opportunity to fill the job, provided the time limit does not exceed a thirty (30) working day period from the time of the original bid being awarded.
In the event the senior applicant does not accept the posted job, his name will nonetheless remain on the posting. If the job becomes vacant within the previously mentioned thirty (30) working day period, he will still be eligible to fill the position.
17.	When a job vacancy occurs, the vacancy will be posted and the job will be awarded on the following basis:
a)	First priority in order of seniority to those who have previously lost the position as a result of a reduction in forces. This right to continue for one (1) year.
b)	General plant seniority.
32
18.	Newly created jobs shall be posted at “interim” rates until the job has been evaluated through the Job Evaluation Process set out in Article 28, Section 7.
19.	The job posting form shall include:
1)	Date
2)	Recognized name of the job
3)	Department involved
4)	Hourly rate
5)	The expiry date
6)	Any specific qualifications
7)	Space for the applicant’s name
8)	Shift identification
9)	The name of employee being replaced (if applicable)
20.	It is understood that employees absent from work due to vacation, sickness or injury, or approved leave of absence by the Company shall have the right to an absentee bid. Such a bid will be placed by a member of the Union, on the posting, on the instruction of the absent employee.
21.	It is agreed Maintenance, Apprentices, Trade Utility, Sawfilers and Miscellaneous Categories shall be posted on a plantwide basis. Plant seniority will be the determining factor in awarding the job except as provided in the Selection of Apprentice Procedure letter of understanding.
22.	During the training period the employee will be paid the rate of the job for which he is being trained.
23.	When an employee has completed training, he will be so advised in writing by Management.
24.	Employees will be eligible to hold only three (3) bids at one time comprised of one of each of the following:
One (1) permanent bid
One (1) temporary or seasonal bid
One (1) training bid
With the exception of permanent vacancies, successful
33
bidders will not be awarded any other position requiring training until ninety (90) calendar days have elapsed from the date of said job posting being awarded unless no other eligible employee has bid and been awarded the job. The ninety (90) calendar days will start from the date the employee is accepted or declines a posting after being accepted on the posting.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1 - General Principles
a)	Any employee desiring leave of absence for any reasons other than those set out in Sections 2 and 3 of this Article must obtain same in writing from the Company, a copy of such leave to be forwarded to the Local Union.
b)	Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this section for a period of no longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the Company agrees to notify the Union as to the circumstances for the granting of such a period of leave.
c)	The Company will grant leave of absence to a maximum of six (6) months without pay to employees for educational or training purposes, conditional on the following terms:
i.	That the employee has at least one (1) year seniority with the Company.
ii.	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for such an application could not reasonably be foreseen.
iii.	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application.
iv.	That the Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant, or may postpone leave for educational or training purposes where a suitable replacement is not available.
34
v.	That the Company shall be required to notify the Union of its decision in respect to any application for leave under this section.
vi.	That the employee is only entitled to one leave of absence for educational or training purposes every three (3) years.
Section 2 - Injury or Illness
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the employer.
Section 3 - Union Business
a)	The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or elected to the Union office for a period of up to and including one (1) year. Further leave of absence may be granted by mutual consent. Any employee who obtains such leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of his term of employment with the Union.
b)	The Union will make every effort in requesting such leaves of absence to avoid requests that will unduly deplete the crew in any one department which will impair production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Union will cooperate with the Company in making substitute employees available or select alternate delegates to attend Union functions.
c)	The Company will grant leave of absence to any employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions, or members of any Union Negotiating committee in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
d)	It is agreed that before the employee receives this leave of absence as set forth in Clauses (a) and (c) above, the employer will be given due notice in writing by the Union in
35
order to replace the employee with a competent substitute.
Section 4 - Bereavement Leave
a)	When death occurs to a member of a regular, full-time employee’s immediate family, the Company will grant a Leave of Absence for a reasonable period of time. Members of the employee’s immediate family are defined as the spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, step-parents, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchildren, sisters-in-law, brothers-in-law, step-children, or legal guardian.
b)	The Company will pay a maximum of three (3) days pay lost time at the employee’s regular rate of pay for bereavement leave.
Section 5- Jury Duty
a)	Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, Coroner’s Duty, or as a Crown Witness or Coroner’s Witness on a day which he would normally have worked will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay received for Jury Duty and his regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for his regular scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received for Jury Duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of Jury Service and Jury Duty pay received.
b)	Hours paid for Jury Duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 6 - Maternity / Parental Leave
The Company will grant Maternity and Parental Leave and
benefits in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement
36
and the appropriate Federal and/or Provincial legislation. Section 7 - Public Office
a)	The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for conducting Municipal business.
c)	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
Section 8 - Extended Vacations
The Company will grant leave for extended vacation where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant on the following terms:
a)	The employee shall disclose the reasons for such application.
b)	Employees making application for absence for “Extended Vacations” shall apply at least one (1) month in advance.
c)	It is agreed that upon employee’s request for leave of absence for extended vacations, such leaves shall only be granted once every three (3) years and that a record be kept for the purpose of rotating such leaves to the most senior applicant.
d)	That applications for extended vacations may be postponed
37
where a suitable replacement is not available.
Section 9- Other
By mutual agreement, the Company will grant a reasonable
period of leave for compassionate reasons.
ARTICLE 13 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
a)	In the event that a Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the following Monday or any other day that may be designated by either the Provincial or Federal government shall be observed as the holiday.
b)	If another day is substituted by statute or decree for the observance of any of the holidays listed below, the day of the observance shall be deemed to be the holiday. If a Statutory Holiday falls on an employee’s normal day off, the employee shall be granted one other day in lieu of the holiday.
c)	All work performed on the Statutory Holidays below shall be paid for at rate and one-half:
New Year’s day	Canada Day	Remembrance	Day
Good Friday	Labour Day	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving	Day	Boxing Day
Family Day
d)	An employee who qualifies for the above holidays under the conditions set out below in paragraph (e) shall be paid for the holiday at his regular rate of pay for his regular work schedule. It is agreed that the hours so paid for the Statutory Holiday will be included in the weekly work schedule. An employee working on a paid holiday shall be paid the overtime rate for hours worked in addition to receiving the straight time holiday pay for which he may qualify.
e)	Any employee, to qualify for Statutory Holiday pay, must have been on the payroll thirty (30) days during the twelve (12) months preceding, and must have worked his last regularly scheduled shift before, and his first regularly
38
scheduled after the holiday, unless his absence is due to compensable injury or illness or due to authorized leave of absence. In the case of injury or illness, the employer shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
f)	Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, if an employee fails to work within forty-five (45) calendar days immediately prior to the holiday, and within forty-five (45) calendar days immediately after the holiday, the employee shall not be entitled to be paid for any Statutory Holiday within that period.
g)	It is agreed that Casual employees shall not qualify for Statutory Holiday pay.
h)	In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, and when the Company and Union Committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or the following Friday respectively.
i)	At the request of the Local with thirty (30) days notice, the Company agrees to exchange Heritage Day for Family Day as the down Statutory Holiday.
j)	If a Statutory holiday falls during an employee’s vacation, such employee will take a paid day off at a date that is mutually agreeable to the employee and the Company.
ARTICLE 14 - PERSONAL AND FLOATING HOLIDAYS
Section 1 - Floating Holiday
Regular full-time employees will be granted two (2) floating holidays during each calendar year, one of which will be in lieu of Heritage Day. These holidays are to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production. Legislation changes will not add to or reduce the number of floating Holidays or Statutory Holidays.
39
Section 2 - Floating Holiday Entitlement
a)	An employee must have worked for the Company one hundred eighty (180) calendar days to qualify for the floating holidays.
b)	Employees will not qualify for the floating holidays if on leave of absence for more than six (6) months in the contract year except in the case of sickness or injury.
c)	When the floating holiday is taken, an employee will be granted eight (8) hours’ pay at the straight time rate of the employee’s regular job subject to the foregoing.
d)	When the employee requests his Floating Holiday less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the Floating Holiday, he shall receive written notice of the disposition of his request a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested Floating Holiday.
e)	When the employee requests his Floating Holiday more than ten (10) working days prior to the date of the Floating Holiday, he shall receive written notice of the disposition of the request a minimum of seven (7) days prior to the requested Floating Holiday.
f)	When an employee is required to work on his floating holiday, he will be paid rate and one-half plus his regular job rate. An employee requested to work on his floating holiday will have the option to work the originally scheduled floating holiday at time and one-half and to reschedule the floating holiday with pay at a later date.
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
Section 1 - One to Two Years’ Service
a)	A Vacation with Pay will be granted to employees in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act governing Vacations with Pay and amendments thereto, except that vacation pay for employees
40
with less than one (1) year’s service will be calculated in accordance with Section 34 of such Act.
b)	Employees with one to two years’ service will receive two (2) weeks’ vacation with vacation pay calculated at five percent (5%) of the employee’s total earnings.
Section 2 - Two Years’ Service
a)	The Company further agrees to grant all employees with two (2) or more years of continuous service three (3) weeks’ vacation based on seven percent (7%) of total earnings.
b)	The third week of vacation as in (a) above does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in the above Section but at a time convenient to the Company.
Section 3 - Seven Years’ Service
a)	An employee with seven (7) or more years’ continuous service shall receive four (4) weeks’ vacation with pay based on nine percent (9%) of total earnings.
b)	The additional one week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Section 1 and 2 herein.
Section 4 - Fifteen Years’ Service
a)	An employee with fifteen (15) or more years’ of continuous service shall receive five (5) weeks’ vacation with pay based on eleven percent (11%) of total earnings.
b)	The additional one week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2 and 3.
Section 5 - Twenty-Four Years’ Service
a) An employee with twenty-four (24) or more years’ of continuous service shall receive six (6) weeks’ vacation with
41
pay based on thirteen percent (13%) of total earnings.
b) The additional one week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4.
Section 6 - Thirty Years’ Service
a)	An employee with thirty (30) or more years’ of continuous service shall receive seven (7) weeks’ vacation with pay based on fifteen percent (15%) of total earnings.
b)	The additional one week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.
Section 7 - Vacation Scheduling
Vacations for Union employees shall be taken at such time as is mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Company, when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired. Date or dates for annual vacations will be posted two (2) months in advance, if possible, or not less than one (1) month in advance.
Employees shall have the following options and will make their wishes known on the forms supplied:
a)	Receiving vacation pay at the time vacations are taken.
b)	Receiving vacation pay in a lump sum and taking earned time off during the vacation year.
Section 8 - Time Included for Vacation Entitlement
The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations with pay for an employee after one (1) year of continuous employment:
a)	Absence on Workers’ Compensation up to a period of one (1) year provided the employee returns to his employment.
42
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1) year provided the employee returns to his employment. The employer shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
ARTICLE 16 - SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
Section 1 - Principles
a)	The Company and the employees will cooperate to assure safe working methods and conditions and devise plans for furtherance of safety measures.
b)	The Company and the employees agree to comply with the Occupational Health and Safety Act Regulations, and to carry out instructions as directed from time to time by representatives of the Board in the furtherance of safety measures.
c)	The employees and Joint Health & Safety Committee members are expected to immediately report any unsafe conditions to Management.
Section 2 - Joint Health & Safety Committee
a)	The Company shall maintain a Joint Health and Safety Committee consisting of not more than twelve (12) members, and not less than four (4) members.
b)	Members of the Committee shall be designated and shall consist of an equal number of representatives of the Company and the Union. Union representatives shall be regular employees in the operation with at least one (1) year’s experience.
c)	The general duties of the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be governed by the rules and regulations laid down from time to time under the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
d)	Joint Health and Safety Committee meetings shall be held during working hours where possible. Employees’ time will not be deducted for attending such meetings or
43
investigations into accidents.
Section 3 - Compensation
Committee meetings held outside regular working hours will be paid at employees’ regular straight-time hourly rate.
Section 4 - Fatal Accident
a)	In the case of a fatal accident, the Accident Prevention Committee in the operation shall, within forty-eight (48) hours, conduct an investigation and report its findings to the parties.
b)	Any or all employees working in the immediate area when a fatal accident has occurred may, without loss of pay, refrain from working the balance of the shift.
ARTICLE 17 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Either party to this Agreement may initiate a grievance for an
alleged violation of the Collective Agreement.
Section 1 - Committee
The Union shall select a maximum of four (4) employees to serve as a Grievance Committee, names of who shall be supplied to the Company.
Section 2 - Procedure
The Company and the Union mutually agree that when a grievance arises in the plant coming under the terms of this Agreement, it shall be taken up in the following manner:
Step 1 The individual employee involved, with the Shop Steward shall first take up the matter with the foreman directly in charge of the work within fourteen (14) days from the time when the employee has knowledge, or may reasonably be presumed to
44
have knowledge of such event or events giving rise to the grievance.
Step 2 If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be referred to the Local Union and Management.
Step 3 If the grievance is not then satisfactorily resolved, it shall be referred to the National Union Representative and a representative of the employer.
Step 4 If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by Arbitration as set forth in Article 18.
On mutual agreement of all parties, any step of the grievance
procedure can be waived and time limits as specified in this
procedure may be extended. Such agreements will be in writing.
Section 3 - Abandonment
If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage under Steps 1, 2, 3 or 4 within fourteen (14) days after completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. When the grieving party is unable to observe the specified time limit by reason of the absence of the grievor from the plant for causes beyond his control, the said time limit shall not apply, but the grievor shall be bound to proceed in such case as quickly as possible.
ARTICLE 18 - ARBITRATION
Section 1 - Principles
In case of any dispute arising regarding the application of this Agreement, which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves as provided for under the Grievance Procedure Article 17, the matter shall be determined by arbitration in the following manner:
45
a)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by registered mail of the question arbitrated. In addition, such notification shall include a list of names of people who may be acceptable to both parties to act as a single arbitrator to hear the issue or issues. After receiving such notice, the other party shall within five (5) working days notify the other party of acceptance of one of the names, or reject all of the names proposed by the first party. If the parties fail to agree on a single arbitrator, they shall forthwith request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Alberta to appoint an arbitrator.
b)	No one shall serve as a member of an Arbitration Board who:
i)	either directly or indirectly has an interest in the subject of the Arbitration,
ii)	has participated in the grievance procedure preceding the Arbitration,
iii)	is or has been within the period of six (6) months preceding the initiation of the Arbitration, been employed by the employees’ Union or a Company directly engaged in the forest products industry.
d)	The decision of the Arbitration Board shall be by majority vote and shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Parts.
e)	If any Arbitration Board finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employee shall be reinstated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this Agreement provided always that if it is shown to the Board that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period during the discharge (or suspension) and reinstatement, or date of failure to rehire and rehiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages payable by the Company pursuant to this section.
46
Section 2 - Expenses
The Parties of the First and Second parts will each bear the expense and charges of its representatives on any Arbitration Board, and shall bear in equal portions the expenses and allowances of the Chairman, and stenographic and secretarial expense, and rent.
Section 3 - Location
Any arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held at the City of Grande Prairie or at such other place as may be decided by the Board.
ARTICLE 19 - HEALTH AND WELFARE
The following coverage will be provided:
a)	Participation in the plan is to be a condition of employment for new employees.
b)	Group Life Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
March 1,2011	$110,000
March 1,2012	$120,000
c)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
March 1,2011	$110,000
March 1,2012	$120,000
d)	Weekly Indemnity for each qualified employee:
Effective March 1, 1999: $475.00 per week.
Effective March 1, 1995, a “No Downs” provision will be introduced so the four hundred forty-eight dollars ($448.00) per week benefit will not be reduced by further reductions by E.I. of the maximum insurable earnings number.
47
Claims denied by the carrier may be referred to a Company representative and Union representative for further review.
e)	Employees will be covered by Extended Health Benefits in accordance with the Canfor Benefit Program booklet.
f)	Premium cost of providing coverage under this Article will be borne by the Company.
g)	The parties agree to extend the existing Extended Health Benefits Plan to incorporate a medical travel allowance for necessary medical travel when members or their dependents are referred by their attending physician to medical specialists in Alberta and such referrals require travel from the patient’s community of employment in excess of 500km on a round trip basis.
1.	The maximum allowance payable on behalf of any member or dependent is two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) over the term of the Agreement, with a maximum of one thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200.00) in any one year.
2.	Eligible expenses will include bills for regularly-schedule economy class air fares, hotel accommodation and taxi fares.
3.	Travel by private automobile will be paid at thirty cents ($.30) per kilometer.
4.	All medical referrals will be in writing and travel must take place within two (2) months of the physician’s referral, unless the earliest possible date of availability of the specialist is beyond two (2) months from the referral.
5.	Entitlement to hotel expenses will be based on the reasonableness of the member or dependent being unable to return home on the day of the referral.
6.	A claim form with receipts must be filed by the member within one hundred and twenty (120) days of the date eligible expenses are incurred.
48
7.	Expenses that are payable under the Workers’ Compensation Act or any other government authority or insurance plan will not be eligible for reimbursement from this provision.
h)	Effective February 1, 2005, the cost of corrective lenses, frames or contact lenses will increase to a maximum of two hundred fifty ($250) per person in any two calendar years.
i)	The company will reimburse employees for fees associated with completion of the initial Physician’s Statement for a new Weekly Indemnity claim. Reimbursement will be to a maximum of thirty dollars ($30.00) upon approval of the claim.
ARTICLE 20 - LONG TERM DISABILITY
A Long Term Disability Plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
The Plan to be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis. Benefits to continue to age sixty (60).
The Plan will provide, after 52 weeks of disability, a benefit of 50% of gross month earnings to a maximum of:
March 1,2002 $2100 March 1, 2003 $2200
for all new and existing claimants.
ARTICLE 21 - DENTAL PLAN
A Dental Plan will be provided, based on the following general principles:
a)	Basic dental services (Plan A) - Plan pays eighty percent (80%) of approved Alberta Schedule.
b)	Prosthetics crowns and bridges (Plan B) - Plan pays sixty percent (60%) of approved Alberta schedule of fees.
49
c)	Orthodontic (Plan C) - Plan pays sixty percent (60%) of approved Alberta schedule of fees (lifetime maximum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00)). Effective September 1, 1999, lifetime maximum of dependent children will be raised to three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
d)	Premium cost for providing coverage under this Article will be borne by the Company.
e)	Eligibility shall be the first of the month following the date of completion of the probationary period.
f)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment.
ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE FAMILY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Management and Union have established an Employee Family Assistance Program (E.F.A.P.) committee, comprised of equal representation from Union and Management.
The intent of this program is to provide a supportive, qualified and confidential E.F.A.P. for all who choose to use its services. Either party may request amendments to or a review of and/or renewed commitment to the employee Family Assistance Program at any time.
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY EQUIPMENT
a)	The Company shall replace the following equipment at no cost to the employee when those articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair and when they are required by the Company or the Occupation Health and Safety Act.
1)	Aprons
2)	Hard Hats and Liners
3)	Eye, Ear and Nose protective equipment
4)	Safety Pants (yard buckers)
b)	Where the Company has been supplying safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date of this Agreement, it will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
50
c)	The Company will provide aprons as required at no charge to Stacker, Resaw and Reman operators.
d)	Rain suits will be provided as required for employees working on hydraulics or water lines.
e)	Employees will be reimbursed up to one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per year, including applicable taxes, upon presentation of a receipt for C.S.A. approved safety-toed footwear.
f)	The Company will provide one (1) only pair of safety prescription eyewear per employee at Company expense provided that the lenses and frames meet current C.S.A. standards for safety eyewear.
g)	Gloves will be supplied at no cost to the employee and will be replaced at no cost when the old pair is presented worn or damaged; otherwise, replacement will be at the expense of the employee.
ARTICLE 24 - PENSION PLAN
The Company agrees to actuarially fund the Pension Plan in accordance with the provisions of Supplement #2 attached to this Agreement. It is further agreed that pension contributions will be placed in trust.
ARTICLE 25 - APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT
Subject to the provisions of the Apprenticeship Act, the Government of the Province of Alberta, and the regulations made pursuant thereto respecting the following trades:
Electrician
Motor Mechanic
Heavy Duty Mechanic
Millwright
Welder
Machinist
51
It is agreed as follows:
Training time for apprentices shall be in accordance with the scheduling for each trade as specified by the Apprenticeship Act as listed herein.
Trade Electrician	Length of Apprenticeship 4 years	At Vocational School 1st year - 8 weeks 2nd year - 8 weeks 3rd year - 8 weeks 4th year - 12 weeks
Motor Mechanic	4 years	1st year - 8 weeks 2nd year - 8 weeks 3rd year - 8 weeks 4th year - 8 weeks
Heavy Duty Mechanic	4 years	1st year - 8 weeks 2nd year - 8 weeks 3rd year - 8 weeks 4th year - 8 weeks
Millwright	4 years	1st year - 8 weeks 2nd year - 8 weeks 3rd year - 8 weeks 4th year - 8 weeks
Welder	3 years	1st year - 6 weeks 2nd year - 6 weeks 3rd year - 8 weeks
Machinist	4 years	1st year - 8 weeks 2nd year - 8 weeks 3rd year - 8 weeks 4th year - 8 weeks
Section 1 - Wage Rates for Apprentices
Wage rates for apprentices (who pass required tests) shall not be less than the percentage of the prevailing wages of Journeyman as specified for each trade by the Apprenticeship
52
and Industry Training Act with respect to the trade. (Journeymen’s rates are set forth in Wage Supplement #1 to the Collective Agreement between the parties.)
Section 2 - Expenses
The Company shall pay apprentices while attending vocational school the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Since persons shall receive the wages less the sum paid to them by the appropriate government authorities, married persons shall receive their wages less the sum paid to single persons by the appropriate government authorities. The provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to apprentices in this program
Section 3 - Selection of Apprentices
1.	PURPOSE
To establish objective criteria which will give management reasonable assurance that employees entering an apprenticeship have the ability and desire to become proficient trades people and to ensure the union that the senior applicant, who meets the criteria, will become an apprentice.
2.	EDUCATIONAL PREREQUISITES
Educational prerequisites will be to those standards established in: Section 4 Testing, and must meet the minimum requirements set by The Apprenticeship Branch.
3.	INTERVIEW
Applicants will be interviewed to ensure candidate is well informed on apprenticeship and trade position including: training (practical, trade school, upgrading), communication skills, wages, shifts, responsibilities and job duties.
4.	TESTING
Testing procedures will be as follows:
53
a)	A passing grade of 40%. The grade can be adjusted by mutual consent between the Company and Union.
b)	An outside representative shall conduct and mark the tests.
c)	Any changes made to existing test content must be mutually agreed to by the Company and Union.
5.	SELECTION
The senior applicant who meets the educational requirements and passes the required tests will be selected to become the apprentice.
6.	RETESTING
a)	It is agreed that where an applicant has failed to pass the series of tests, he/she will be eligible to bid and be retested one (1) additional time for each series of tests (mechanical or electrical) on a future apprenticeship posting.
b)	An applicant who fails the series of tests twice may be retested for any future apprenticeship posting if they complete relevant upgrading. Course costs for relevant upgrading will be reimbursed by the company on successful completion of the training. Training must be approved by the company prior to taking any training.
c)	Results of all tests will be retained on a separate Apprenticeship file in the company’s office. An applicant who has met the criteria and successfully passed the requisite tests and is the senior applicant for any future apprenticeship posting, within a three (3) year period, will be consider the successful applicant.
Section 4 - Right to Continue
Once started in the Apprenticeship Program subject, however, to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he passes all the prescribed tests and work is available for him.
54
Section 5 - Tests
In the event the Apprentice fails to pass the required tests, he will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second test in any period during his term as an apprentice, he shall be required to withdraw from the program. It is understood, however, that he will continue to be employed in whatever job is available for him in the operation.
Section 6 - Tools
Journeyman - All Journeymen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for Journeyman rates unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired.
Apprentices - All Apprentices shall be required to have and maintain a tool kit to perform the job for which they are hired.
ARTICLE 26 - TOOL INSURANCE
a)	The Company at its own expense shall insure for damage or loss caused by fire or flood, the tools of its employees which are required in the performance of their work. This provision for tool insurance shall also apply to loss by theft where tools are stored in a designated secure place supplied by the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. In the event of flood or theft, the insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of fifty dollars ($50.00) in respect of each employee’s claim. In order to be eligible for loss, an employee must have supplied the Company with a written list of tools required in the performance of work and stored with the Company.
b)	The Company will repair or replace those Tradesmen’s and Apprentice’s tools that are damaged, broken or lost in the performance of regular duties with tools that are of equal or better quality whenever possible.
c)	The Company agrees that it will replace or repair those Apprentice’s tools that are damaged or broken in the
55
performance of regular duties.
d)	The Company will make available for use tools required upon the introduction of the metric system.
ARTICLE 27 - CONTRACTING OUT
a)	It is not the intent of the Company to replace regular employees by the use of contractors or sub-contractors.
b)	Work normally performed by regular employees will continue to be performed by them, except when justified by special circumstances. Meetings will be held with the Union Executive to discuss instances of special circumstances when they arise.
c)	New construction, major renovations/rebuilds and overload maintenance are exempted from the above.
ARTICLE 28 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1 - Letters of Understanding & Supplements
It is agreed that Memoranda of Agreement such as “Pension Plan”, “Seasonal Job Posting Policy”, “Sawmill and Planer Utility Positions”, “Compressed Work Week Schedule - Maintenance” and other attachments shall form part of this Agreement, except where they have been modified by the parties or substituted by other provisions in this Agreement.
Section 2 - Coveralls
a) The Company will make available and maintain three (3) pairs of coveralls for use on Company property to regular employees in the following categories:
Tradesmen Apprentices Trade Utility
Planerman (Maintenance) Crane Operators
Oilers
Kiln Attendants Kiln Attendants Cleanup
56
Coveralls will be made available and provided upon request to all employees working in abnormally dirty areas.
b) The company will provide reimbursement up to two hundred dollars ($200.00) during the term of the agreement upon presentation of a receipt for insulated coveralls to employees holding bid jobs in the following categories:
Millwrights, Electricians, Welders and Mechanics, including apprentice Seasonal Log Scalers, Yard Cleanup, Forklift operator - planer infeed, Forklift operator -sawmill outfeed
Reimbursement for a second pair of coveralls will be provided during the term of the agreement when the initial pair of coveralls is presented as damaged beyond repair during the course of regular employment.
Section 3 - Medical Examinations
The Company shall pay for all employee medical examinations not covered by Alberta Health Care, if such medical examination is a prerequisite for the job of that employee or a prerequisite of the licensing requirements of the job of that employee.
Section 4 - Bulletin Boards
The Company shall supply adequately enclosed official bulletin boards for the use of the Union in posting of officially signed bulletins.
Section 5 - Disability Management Committee
The Company and the Union will jointly maintain a Disability Management Program based on NIDmAr or the principles of NIDMAR.
Section 6 - Job Evaluations
1.	The Company and the Union will jointly develop job descriptions as required for the purpose of job evaluation for
57
new jobs and jobs with substantial changes.
2.	There will be a Job Evaluation Committee comprised of two (2) management and two (2) union representatives. The Job Evaluation Committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation are adequately and accurately documented for further action.
The documents required will include a “Job Description for Evaluation” form, submitted either by the union or by management, which provides sufficient information for evaluation of the position.
3.	When the Job Evaluators have made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job, they shall communicate that decision to the Job Evaluation Committee in the form of a Letter of Understanding. The Job Evaluation Committee will be responsible for informing management and the employees concerned.
ARTICLE 29 - PERMANENT PLANT CLOSURE
In the event of a permanent plant closure of the Company’s operation in Grande Prairie, the employees shall be entitled to severance pay equal to seven (7) days’ pay for each year of continuous service provided the employees involved have not been offered employment by the Company in another manufacturing operation of the Company in the Grande Prairie area.
In the event the plant is relocated within a radius of eighty (80) kilometres and the employees involved are not required to relocate their place of residence and are not terminated by the Company as a result of the plant relocation, they shall not be entitled to severance pay.
ARTICLE 30 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Section 1 - Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the Plant Committee and the Union not 58
less than three (3) months in advance of intent to institute material changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or layoff of employees.
Section 2 - Severance Pay
Employees discharged or laid off directly because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of one (1) week’s pay for each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks’ pay.
Section 3 - Rate Adjustment
Where the Company has exercised its right to eliminate a job or jobs through automation or the installation of new equipment, the employees affected shall have the right to exercise their seniority in accordance with the seniority provisions of the Agreement, and such employees’ rate of pay shall be red circled for a period of three (3) months, and for a further period of three (3) months, the employee will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his regular job at the time of the setback the rate of his new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period, the rate of his new regular job will apply.
ARTICLE 31 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
The parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective on and after the 1st day of March, 2011, to midnight the 30th day of September, 2014, and thereafter from year to year, unless sixty (60) days’ written notice to commence collective bargaining for amendments is given by either Party. The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the office of the Company, and the Local Office of the Union at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiry date of the Agreement.
If no agreement is reached at the expiration of this Agreement, and notice to commence collective bargaining has been served, the existing Agreement shall remain in effect until a new Agreement is reached or until thirty (30) days after the Minister notifies the parties of the recommendations of the Disputes
59
Inquiry Board under the Alberta Labour Act, and to continue thereafter until discontinued in writing by either Party.
Dated this 9th day of February , A.D. 2011
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy and Grande Prairie Operations Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
60
SUPPLEMENT #1
WAGE SCHEDULE
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS
Mar 1/11 Group 0		Oct 1/11	Oct 1/12	Oct 1/13
Cleanup	24.440	24.930	25.430	25.940
Group 1				
Paperwrap Attendant	24.650	25.145	25.650	26.165
Strip Attendant	24.650	25.145	25.650	26.165
Planer Loop Attendant	24.650	25.145	25.650	26.165
Group 3				
Firewatch/Cleanup	25.065	25.565	26.075	26.595.
Group 4				
J-Bar Attendant SM	25.265	25.770	26.285	26.810
J-Bar Attendant PM	25.265	25.770	26.285	26.810
Chip Classifier/Cleanup	25.265	25.770	26.285	26.810
Group 6				
Tilt Hoist Op/Trimmer	25.685	26.200	26.725	27.260
Stacker Operator SM	25.685	26.200	26.725	27.260
Stacker Operator PM	25.685	26.200	26.725	27.260
Group 7				
Cutoff Saw Operator	25.895	26.415	26.945	27.485
Strapper/Endpress	25.895	26.415	26.945	27.485
Planer Feeder	25.895	26.415	26.945	27.485
Group 8				
Reman Edger Optimizer Trimmer Optimizer	LO CD O CO C\J	26.615	27.145	27.690
/ Unscrambler	26.095	26.615	27.145	27.690
Group 9				
Forklift Op - PM Outfeed	26.295 61	26.820	27.355	27.900
Mar 1/11
Forklift Op - SM Outfeed 26.295 Forklift Op - PM Infeed 26.295 Planer Utility 26.295	
Group 10 Single Band Resaw SM	26.505
Group 12 Sawmill Utility Forklift Op - Shipping Kiln Forklift Operator 1	26.930 26.930 26.930
Group 13 Debarker Operator Weekend/Cleanup Chargehand	27.120 27.120
Group 14 Merchandiser Operator Log Yard Cleanup Log Scaler	27.330 27.330 27.330
Group 15 Kiln Forklift Operator 2	27.540
Group 16 Log Loader Operator	27.755
Group 18 20” CNS Operator	28.155
Group 23 Planer Grader/Trimmer	29.190
Group 26 28” CNS Operator	29.805
Group 35 Portal Crane Operator	31.075
Oct 1/11 Oct 1/12 Oct 1/13
o o o C\J C\J C\J 00 00 00 cd CO CO OJ OJ OJ	27.355 27.355 27.355	27.900 27.900 27.900
27.035	27.575	28.125
27.470 27.470 27.470	28.020 28.020 28.020	28.580 28.580 28.580
27.660	28.215	28.780
27.660	28.215	28.780
27.875 27.875 27.875	28.435 28.435 28.435	29.005 29.005 29.005
28.090	28.650	29.225
28.310	28.875	29.455
28.720	29.295	29.880
29.775	30.370	30.975
30.400	31.010	31.630
31.695	32.330	32.975
62
Mar 1/11 Oct 1/11 Oct 1/12 Oct 1/13
MISCELLANEOUS				
Mill Handyman	31.180	31.805	32.440	33.090
Oiler	26.560	27.090	27.630	28.185
MAINTENANCE				
Electrician - Certified	32.835	33.490	34.160	34.845
Electrician	32.195	32.840	33.495	34.165
Apprentice - 4th year	29.865	30.460	31.070	31.690
Apprentice - 3rd year	27.790	28.345	28.910	29.490
Apprentice - 2nd year	27.100	27.640	28.195	28.760
Apprentice - 1st year	26.745	27.280	27.825	28.380
Mechanic - Certified	32.835	33.490	34.160	34.845
Mechanic	32.195	32.840	33.495	34.165
Apprentice - 4th year	29.865	30.460	31.070	31.690
Apprentice - 3rd year	27.790	28.345	28.910	29.490
Apprentice - 2nd year	27.100	27.640	28.195	28.760
Apprentice - 1st year	26.745	27.280	27.825	28.380
Millwright - Certified	32.835	33.490	34.160	34.845
Millwright	32.195	32.840	33.495	34.165
Apprentice - 4th year	29.865	30.460	31.070	31.690
Apprentice - 3rd year	27.790	28.345	28.910	29.490
Apprentice - 2nd year	27.100	27.640	28.195	28.760
Apprentice - 1st year	26.745	27.280	27.825	28.380
Welder - B Pressure				
Ticket	32.605	33.255	33.920	34.600
Welder - Certified	32.555	33.205	33.870	34.545
Welder	31.905	32.545	33.195	33.860
Apprentice - 3rd year	29.865	30.460	31.070	31.690
Apprentice - 2nd year	27.790	28.345	28.910	29.490
Apprentice - 1st year	26.745	27.280	27.825	28.380
Sawfiler - Certified	32.835	33.490	34.160	34.845
Sawfiler	32.195	32.840	33.495	34.165
Apprentice - 4th year	29.865	30.460	31.070	31.690
Apprentice - 3rd year	27.790	28.345	28.910	29.490
Apprentice - 2nd year	27.100	27.640	28.195	28.760
63
Mar 1/11 Oct 1/11 Oct 1/12 Oct 1/13
Apprentice - 1st year	26.745
Machinist - Certified	32.835
Machinist	32.195
Apprentice - 4th year	29.865
Apprentice - 3rd year	27.790
Apprentice - 2nd year	27.100
Apprentice - 1st year	26.745
Grinderman	27.630
Trade Utility #1	27.630
Trade Utility #2	26.995
Welder/Millwright	32.835
27.280	27.825	28.380
33.490	34.160	34.845
32.840	33.495	34.165
30.460	31.070	31.690
28.345	28.910	29.490
27.640	28.195	28.760
27.280	27.825	28.380
28.185	28.750	29.325
28.185	28.750	29.325
27.535	28.085	28.645
33.490	34.160	34.845
64
SUPPLEMENT #2
ARTICLE 24 - PENSION PLAN
BETWEEN:	CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446
The parties agree that the following guidelines will be used in the
administration of the Pension Plan.
1.	All employee members of the Union will be members of the Plan subject to provision 5 below.
2.	The parties agree that effective the first day of March, 2002, the benefit levels shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per month for each year of past service for eligible employees. Effective the first day of October, 2013, the benefit level for the pension plan for service for all actives shall be adjusted by two percent (2%).
Effective March 1, 2002, employees will commence contributing thirty cents ($.30) per hour to the pension plan. The contribution hours will be in accordance with Supplement #2, item 9, of the Collective Agreement.
3.	Effective March 1, 2002, the Company agrees to a Pension Bridge of seventeen dollars ($17.00) per month per year of service for any employee retiring on or after their fifty-fifth (55th) birthday, to be paid at age sixty (60) or upon retirement if after the age of sixty (60) and to continue until age sixty-five (65). Those employees who retire between March 1, 2001 and February 28, 2002 will have their Pension Bridge increased to this level effective March 1, 2002.
This section will apply to anyone retiring after March 1,2001.
4.	Normal retirement shall be at the age of sixty five (65) years.
65
5.	A vested employee member may elect early retirement with no reduction in earned pension after he/she has passed his/her sixtieth (60th) birthday. A vested employee member may elect early retirement with an actuarially reduced pension after he/she has passed his/her fifty-fifth (55th) birthday.
6.	Subject to provision 8 below, an employee will be vested when he/she has two (2) years of continuous service or in accordance with legislated requirements in the Province of Alberta, whichever is less.
7.	For the purpose of this plan, service is considered to be continuous until a member fails to work six hundred forty (640) hours in two (2) consecutive calendar years. Banked hours will not extend continuous service.
8.	If an employee who is vested has a break in service prior to retirement, that employee will receive a deferred vested pension when that employee retires. The pension will be based on the employee’s service before the break in service and at the benefit levels in effect at the time of the employee’s break in service.
If that employee should later return to employment with the Company, that employee will also receive credit for all service after the break. The amount of pension that the employee will receive will be based on the rate in effect each time that there was a break in service.
9.	To receive a full year’s credit, an employee must accumulate fifteen hundred (1,500) pensionable hours in a calendar year. Pensionable hours shall include:
(a)	Worked hours to a maximum of 8 hours per day and 40 hours per week.
(b)	Firefighting hours up to a maximum of eight (8) hours in a day and for (40) in a week.
(c)	Apprenticeship hours spent attending school on an
66
apprenticeship program.
(d)	Short shifts. Employees who, because of their work schedule, work less than eight (8) hours per day but are paid eight (8) hours per day shall be credited eight (8) hours per day.
In any year where an employee accumulates more than fifteen hundred (1,500) pensionable hours as described in parts (a), (b), (c) and (d) above, hours in excess of fifteen hundred (1,500) will be banked. In years in which an employee does not work fifteen hundred (1,500) hours, the banked hours may be used to bring the total hours worked during that year up to fifteen hundred
(1.500)	hours. Banked hours will also be used when an employee retires if he has not accumulated fifteen hundred
(1.500)	hours in his last year of work. Banked hours cannot be used to delay a break in service.
The following shall also be considered as pensionable hours. These hours may not be banked, but may be used when an employee has used all of his/her banked hours.
a)	Layoffs. If a full-time employee is laid off for one (1) or more full weeks, he/she will receive forty (40) hours credit for each week up to a maximum of two hundred (200) hours per year.
b)	Illness or Injury. If an employee is in receipt of wage loss benefits from the Workers’ Compensation Board or Weekly Indemnity benefits for a disability that occurred off the job, he/she will receive a credit of (8) hours for each day he/she receives benefits. The maximum credit shall be fifteen hundred (1,500) hours per year.
c)	Total and Permanent Disability. If an employee is totally and permanently disabled, he/she will be credited with one hundred twenty-five (125) pensionable hours per month upon providing proof of the disability. These credits will continue until the employee recovers or begins to receive a pension, whichever happens first. If an employee is disabled and cannot continue to work at the Grande Prairie lumber mill but is capable of working elsewhere, he/she will not receive any
67
further pension credits after his/her Workers’ Compensation or Long Term Disability Benefits stop.
d)	Vacation. If an employee is eligible for more than five (5) weeks annual vacation, he/she will receive forty (40) hours credit for each week after the fifth (5th) week.
10.	The following shall apply to those plan members who made contributions to the plan at its inception.
a)	If a participant’s employment is terminated with the Company prior to the employee’s retirement date, the employee will be entitled to a refund of his/her contributions with interest in accordance with the established interest tables of the plan. If the employee has completed five (5) or more years of credited service with the Company, he/she may elect to leave his/her contributions in the plan and receive on his/her normal retirement date under the plan a deferred pension in accordance with the pension benefit levels in effect at the time of the employee’s termination.
11.	All other requirements of the administration of the plan will be determined in accordance with the applicable pension legislation of the Province of Alberta or the Government of Canada.
12.	The Company will provide each plan member with a statement of the employee’s standing within the plan once each year. This statement shall include a record of the hours accumulated during the past year and a summary of credits from previous years.
13.	The Parties agree that this supplement replaces all previous Letters of Understanding regarding the Pension Plan and that all previous Letters of Understanding regarding the Pension Plan are hereby cancelled.
14.	The Company and the Union agree to establish a Joint Committee to explore, within two years of ratification of this Agreement, alternate pension systems or changes to the
68
plan that may include employee contributions.
Dated this 9th day of February , A.D. 2011
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy and Grande Prairie Operations Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
69
SUPPLEMENT #3
SAWMILL AND PLANER UTILITY POSITIONS
BETWEEN:	CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446
The following terms and conditions will apply to the positions of
Sawmill Utility and Planer Utility in regards to the starting wage
group and the manner in which successful applicants must
progress through the multiple positions involved:
1.	SAWMILL UTILITY
a)	Starting rate is based on the Debarker group. If the Debarker group should change the Sawmill Utility starting rate would change accordingly.
b)	Within three months the successful applicant must have qualified for the following key Sawmill positions:
Trimmer Bin Sorter Stacker Board Edger Debarker Resaw
20” Chip-N-Saw
Qualifications for other positions may be pursued over an indefinite period of time, but are not required to continue in the Sawmill Utility position.
c)	Qualification for jobs with a higher group than the Debarker will not be recognized until all lower group jobs have been learned. As soon as qualification is achieved for lower group jobs training will begin on higher group jobs.
70
d)	As qualification for higher group jobs is achieved the higher group will become the full time pay rate for this individual in the Sawmill Utility job. Qualification in positions such as Loader Operator, Merchandiser, Cutoff Saw, and 28” CNS will be recognized in pay rate even though these qualifications are not required to qualify for the Utility position.
e)	Positions not considered part of the Sawmill Utility job:
Crane Operator
2.	PLANER UTILITY
a)	Starting group rate and the highest group available for the Planer Utility position will be consistent with the forklift positions, currently Group #12. If the group for the planer infeed forklift or outfeed forklift should change then the Planer utility group rate would change accordingly.
b)	Within three months the successful applicant would be required to train and qualify for the following positions:
Tilt Hoist
Bin Attendant
Planer Stacker
Bander
Planer Outfeed
c)	Positions not considered part of the Planer Utility position:
Kiln Attendant
d)	As qualification for higher groups is achieved, the higher group will become the full time pay rate for the individual in the Planer Utility job. Qualification in positions such as grader and shipper will be recognized in pay rate even though these qualifications are not required to qualify for the Utility position.
71
3. GENERAL NOTES
a)	If an operator in either the Sawmill Utility or Planer Utility positions is required to work in a capacity which has a higher group than that which is recognized in the Utility position, then the higher group would be paid only for the duration of such work.
b)	If during the initial three month training period an individual is unable to qualify for a position which is required in the Utility job then that individual would return to his/her previously held bid job.
Dated this 9th day of February , A.D. 2011
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy and Grande Prairie Operations Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
72
SUPPLEMENT #4
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK SCHEDULE - MAINTENANCE
BETWEEN:	CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446
1.	PREAMBLE
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide a weekend maintenance shift that will allow the Company to perform maintenance during periods when the production facility is not operating
Except and unless specifically varied herein, all of the terms and conditions of the 1992 Collective Agreement between the parties shall apply.
The parties agree that the implementation and continued operation of this schedule will not result in any reduction of the present maintenance workforce.
2.	HOURS OF WORK
The established hours of work shall be:
Friday:	Eight and one-half (8 1/2) hours
- 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
Eight and one-half (8 1/2) hours paid at ten (10) hours straight time.
Saturday: Twelve (12) hours - 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Twelve (12) hours paid at straight time rate.
Sunday Twelve (12) hours - 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Twelve (12) hours paid at rate and one-half.
73
3. OVERTIME
Rate and one-half shall be paid for any hours worked in excess of eight and one-half (8 1/2) hours per day on Friday.
Double straight time rates shall be paid for any hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day on Friday.
Double straight time rates shall be paid for any hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per day on Saturday or Sunday.
4.	OVERTIME MEALS
Overtime meals shall be provided when required in accordance with Article 8, Section 10 of the Collective Agreement.
5.	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
All hours worked are considered as Day Shift if scheduled between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
All hours worked outside the recognized Day Shift will be considered as the Second or Third Shifts, and the premium rate of thirty-one cents ($.31) per hour will be paid for all such hours.
6.	LUNCH PERIODS
Lunch periods shall be of one-half (1/2) hour duration and shall be taken at a time suitable to the employee and the Company.
7.	REST PERIODS
There shall be two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods on Friday and three (3) ten (10) minute rest periods on Saturday and Sunday, to be taken at a time suitable to the employee and the Company.
8.	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
In the event that a Statutory Holiday falls on a scheduled work day, it may be moved to the Friday as selected by the employee. The employee shall receive eight (8) hours pay for his regular
74
hours of work missed due to the Statutory Holiday.
In the event that a Statutory Holiday falls on an employee’s scheduled day off, he shall be paid eight (8) hours at his regular straight-time rate of pay or shall have the option of taking a scheduled work day off in lieu paid at eight (8) hours straight time pay.
In the event an employee is called in to work on his designated Statutory, Floating or Personal Floating Holiday, he shall be paid at the premium rates in accordance with the Collective Agreement for all hours worked on that day.
9.	VACATIONS WITH PAY
Vacation pay shall be calculated as per the Collective Agreement.
An employee who is scheduled to work in any week and who is on vacation shall be treated as having taken one (1) week’s vacation entitlement for each one (1) week’s scheduled work.
10.	HEALTH AND WELFARE, MEDICAL, DENTAL, ETC.
An employee who is scheduled to work under this schedule shall continue to be classified as a regular, full-time employee for all Health and Welfare, Medical, Dental, etc., eligibility purposes.
The word “day” or “days” where it appears to stipulate any period shall be considered as multiples of eight (8) hour units (i.e. one (1) day equals eight (8) hours and four (4) days equals thirty-two (32) hours.)
11.	PENSION PLAN, LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
The Company contribution to the Pension Plan and the Long Term Disability Plan for any employee who works the established hours under this schedule shall be a minimum of forty (40) hours per week or one (1) hour for each hour or part thereof worked, whichever is greater.
The employee who works the established hours under this 75
schedule shall contribute to the Pension Plan or the Long Term Disability Plan on the basis of forty (40) hours per week.
12.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE, BEREAVEMENT LEAVE, JURY DUTY
Leave of Absence shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement.
Bereavement Leave under this schedule shall be paid at the maximum of twenty-four (24) hours pay at the employee’s regular straight-time rate of pay.
Jury Duty reimbursement under this schedule shall be based on hours that otherwise would have been paid under this schedule.
13.	SCHEDULING
The Company will draw up a list of all employees who would wish to work on the above schedule, and employees will be scheduled on the basis of seniority.
Employees on this list will rotate through the above schedule every four (4) months.
Employees shall have the option of adding or removing their name from this list no more than two (2) times each calendar year. When names are added to the list, they will appear after the name of the individual who was the last on the original list.
Where employees are scheduled on a Wednesday to Sunday shift, they can work the Compressed Work Week Schedule by mutual agreement.
Only those trades specifically mentioned in this Agreement will utilize this schedule: Millwrights, Welders, Electricians, and Oilers.
In the event the Company cannot man this crew up to a maximum of seven (7) people using the voluntary process, the Company may appoint on the basis of reverse seniority.
76
14.	GENERAL
The terms of this supplement will be superseded by the terms of Article 9 - Alternate Shift Schedules, when the mill is operating on a seven (7) day per week basis.
Dated this 9th day of February , A.D. 2011
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy and Grande Prairie Operations Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
77
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SEASONAL JOB POSTING POLICY
BETWEEN:	CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446
In order to maintain an efficient, well-trained workforce in seasonal positions, the following criteria will be used to award seasonal bids:
1.	Seniority, competency considered.
2.	Competency to be defined as having previously held the job or having successfully completed training for that job.
Jobs currently considered as seasonal are:
1.	Scale Operator
2.	Log Scaler
3.	Loader Operator (additional)
4.	Portal Crane Operator (additional)
In order to ensure reasonable opportunity for personnel to enter into the seasonal job group, ongoing training in these jobs will be provided. Training will be provided for a minimum of one (1) of the above positions per year. The positions trained will depend on the anticipated needs in future log haul seasons.
To be eligible to train for the log scaler position, trainees must have valid Alberta Forest Service log scaling qualifications. Opportunities will be made available to acquire AFS qualifications.
78
Dated this 9th day of February , A.D. 2011
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy and Grande Prairie Operations Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
79
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
ENTRY LEVEL POSITIONS
BETWEEN:	CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446
The parties agree that the following categories will be considered as entry level positions:
All positions in pay groups 0 through 8
Positions may be added or deleted upon mutual agreement of the parties.
Dated this 9th day of February , A.D. 2011
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy and Grande Prairie Operations Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
80
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
INTERMITTENT PLANER GRAVEYARD SHIFT
BETWEEN:	CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446
Due to the intermittent nature of the third shift in the planer, the
following job posting policy will be used to minimize disruptions
in scheduling:
1.	Jobs will be posted as intermittent. When a third shift goes on in the planer, the successful bidder will automatically be placed on that shift for the duration of the bid.
2.	Jobs will be posted every six months for a six-month period (May 1-Oct 31 and Nov 1-Apr 30)
3.	Persons awarded these bids must be prepared to commit themselves to completing a scheduled run of graveyards, except for health reasons or extraordinary circumstances, in which case every effort will be made to remove the person as soon as practicable.
4.	Persons wishing to return to their previous bid jobs and go off the intermittent graveyards must give one week’s notice in writing prior to the start of a scheduled run of graveyards.
5.	If a scheduled run of graveyard shifts extends past the October 31 or April 30 cutoff, then the incumbent would complete that run, and the new postings would be effective upon completion.
6.	Replacements for the intermittent graveyard incumbents will be the senior competent person where possible.
81
7.	Employees will be eligible to hold a permanent, a temporary and an intermittent bid concurrently. Seasonal and intermittent graveyard bids may not be held concurrently.
It should be noted that there is no guarantee of any graveyard shifts, but the intermittent shift run will not exceed three (3) consecutive weeks.
This agreement shall be subject to review, amendment or termination upon thirty (30) days’ written notice by either party.
Dated this 9th day of February , A.D. 2011
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy and Grande Prairie Operations Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
82
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
VACATION RELIEF TRAINING
BETWEEN:	CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446
1.	During the summer vacation period (mid-June to mid-September) the company may fill vacation vacancies with senior, competent employees.
2.	If there is a shortage of competent employees during a specific time period, the company may post Vacation Relief training postings. The posting will state that the successful applicant will not be allowed to take vacation during the time period specified on the posting.
3.	Whenever possible, all Vacation Relief training postings will be posted at the same time. Employees bidding on more than one posting must indicate their preference.
4.	Two (2) union and two (2) company representatives will review vacation requests and vacation relief training postings prior to the summer vacation period.
5.	This agreement will be in effect for a trial period of one year from the date of signing and may be cancelled thereafter by either party with thirty (30) days written notice.
83
Dated this 9th day of February , A.D. 2011
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy and Grande Prairie Operations Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
84
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
WEEKEND CLEANUP OVERTIME
BETWEEN:	CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA,
Local 446
The purpose of this agreement is to clarify how overtime for weekend cleanup is assigned.
The Company and Union agree that all overtime assigned for weekend cleanup will be based on seniority only.
Dated this 9th day of February , A.D. 2011
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy and Grande Prairie Operations Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
85
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
NORTHERN TRAVEL
BETWEEN:	CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA,
Local 446
The Company agrees to include in Box 32 on all employees’ T-4 slips the amount of $300 per month employed with Canfor Grande Prairie Division for the purpose of Northern Travel, subject to Canada Revue Agency regulations. This shall be effective from September 1,2008.
Dated this 9th day of February , A.D. 2011
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy and Grande Prairie Operations Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
86
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CLAIMS DISPUTE RESOLUTION
BETWEEN:	CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA,
Local 446
Reference: Article 19 - Health and Welfare Section d) Weekly Indemnity for each qualified employee: “Claims denied by the carrier may be referred to a Company representative and Union representative for review.”
A Dispute Resolution Committee encompassing (one) 1 Union representative and the site Human Resources Representative will be formed.
When the insurance carrier denies a claim and requests further medical information, it will be the employee’s responsibility to provide the requested information to the carrier.
Once all the necessary documentation has been provided and if the claim is still denied, the employee will have the right to formally request a review of their claim through the Dispute Resolution mechanism.
The following outlines the process for an employee to formally appeal their denied claim:
a)	The employee will request a formal review in writing to the committee. In addition, the employee will be required to sign confidentiality releases for the committee and the carrier so that information can be shared and reviewed.
b)	Once the Formal Request (letter and releases) is received, the committee will review the information and decide on the next course of action within a 7 working day period.
87
c)	To assist in the appeal of the denial of benefits, the committee will ensure, if required, that the carrier has been provided with a copy of:
•	A complete job description
•	A physical demands analysis of the employee’s position
d)	If the committee is unable to resolve the disputed claim, the issue will, within fourteen days, be referred to a third party for resolution.
e)	The third party will be mutually agreed upon and will have the right to review the claim file if required. The costs of the third party shall be borne equally by the Union and the Employer.
f)	The third party will endeavor to complete the assessment and reach a decision on the issue under appeal within 14 working days of referral.
In the event that the committee is unable to come to a mutually agreed upon decision regarding the resolution of the disputed claim, the decision of the third party will be the deciding factor. The decision of the third party shall be binding, except in the case where the Dispute Resolution Committee both disagree with the third party decision.
If the carrier still states the claim is inadmissible and the committee’s decision is that the claim should be paid, the carrier will pay on an extra contractual basis.
88
Dated this 9th day of February , A.D. 2011
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy and Grande Prairie Operations Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
89
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULE FOR KILN OPERATOR
BETWEEN:	CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA,
Local 446
The parties agree to implement the following shift schedule outlined below that will more fully utilize existing kiln facilities.
1.	Week Day Shift
Hours
Monday through Thursday
Day Shift.............
Afternoon Shift ......
Breaks
Each kiln shift will include 2 - 15 minute rest breaks and a 30 minute unpaid lunch break.
Pay
The crews will be paid a total of 40 hours straight time pay for the 40 hours of work. All hours in excess will be paid at overtime rates as per Article 8 of the Collective Agreement.
Shift Premium
Shift differential of $0.31/hour will be paid to employees working the weekday afternoon shift.
Statutory & Floating Holidays
Statutory and floating holidays are considered 10 hours free from work with 10 hours straight time pay.
Bereavement Leave
Bereavement leave will be 3 consecutive paid days free from work at straight time pay.
6:00 am - 4:30 pm 4:30 pm - 3:00 am
90
Probationary Period
The probationary period for new employees working this shift will be 240 hours worked.
2.	Weekend Shift
Hours
Friday/Saturday/Sunday Breaks
Each shift will include 2 -paid lunch break.
Pay
The operator will be paid a total of 42 hours straight time pay for the 36 hours of work. All hours in excess will be paid at overtime rates as per Article 8 of the Collective Agreement. Hours worked in excess of the scheduled 12 hours will be paid at double time.
Shift Premium
On the weekend day shift, 4 hours of the 12-hour shift will include the $0.31/hour shift differential. Shift differential of $0.31/hour will be paid to employees working the weekend night shift.
Statutory & Floating Holidays
The company will have the option of either operating or taking a day down on each designated statutory holiday. Employees will be advised at least 2 weeks in advance of the designated day. Those employees not wishing to work the designated day must notify the company at least 1 week in advance of the designated day and the company, if necessary, will fill those vacancies with employees from the weekday shifts.
All hours worked on a statutory holiday will be paid at time and one half the employee’s regular rate of pay.
When the company chooses not to operate on a designated statutory holiday, employees will receive 12 hours straight time pay.
Floating holidays are considered 12 hours free from work with 12 91
..................6:00 am - 6:00 pm
6:00 pm - 6:00 am
15 minute rest breaks and a 30-minute
hours straight time pay.
Bereavement Leave
Bereavement leave will be 3 consecutive paid days free from work without any loss of regular wages.
Benefits
All benefits will be provided on the same basis as if they were working a regular 40-hour workweek.
Probationary Period
The probationary period for new employees working this shift will be 240 hours worked.
3.	Manning the Shift
Employees wishing to move on or off the weekend shift must bid through the terms of the plant job posting agreement.
Employees bidding onto the weekend shift will work both schedules without overtime rates. Employees bidding off the weekend shift will have both tours, the first weekday tour and the subsequent weekend tour, off.
In the event that the company must lay off a shift, it is agreed that the weekend shift will be the first shift laid off. The employees affected by this reduction will be entitled to apply their seniority as per Article 10, Section 5 - Reduction of Forces, of the Collective Agreement.
4.	General Principles
Other provisions of the Collective Agreement will be administered on the principle that an employee will not lose or gain any benefits over his normal five-day schedule.
If any clarification is required surrounding issues that arise as a result of the implementation of this alternate schedule, it will be referred back to the Local Union and Management for resolve.
This letter of understanding shall form part of the Collective 92
Agreement between the parties and may be re-opened if either party requests discussion in writing regarding amendments
Dated this 9th day of February , A.D. 2011
Canadian Forest Products Ltd. Communications, Energy and Grande Prairie Operations Paperworkers Union,
Local 446
93