r~—
AGRE
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
(hereinafterreferred to as the ‘Company’)
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31-X
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’)
Covering the Period September 1,1995 to August 31,1998
INDEX
Article
Adjustment of Grievances........... VIII....
ApprenticeshipFlan................. XX ....
Automation......................... XII ....
Automation and Technological Change . XXI....
Benefits at Lay Off................ XIV....
Bereavement Leave.................. XVI....
Bulletin Board..................... XIII....
Call Outs.......................... XI......
Climatic Controls...........................
Compassionate Leave................ XVI....
Contrasting Out.................... Ill.....
Coveralls.......................... X.......
Coveralls...................................
Dental Plan........................ XIV ....
Disputed WCB Claims.........................
Electrical Maintenance......................
Exchange of Shifts................. XI......
Floating Holidays.................. VII.....
Grievance Procedure................ VIII....
Hours of Work...................... XI......
Job Postings....................... XII.....
Joint Health & Safety Committee.... X.......
Joint Health & Safety Conference... X.......
Jurisdiction....................... Ill.....
Jury Duty, Crown Witness,...................
Subpoenaed Witness................. XVII..
Leaves of Absence.................. XVIII.
Letters of Understanding....................
Life Insurance..................... XIV ....
Long Term Disability............... XIV ...
Meals.......................................
Page
9
37
I9
41
23
34
23
16
68
34 1
13
61
23
62
66
16
7
9
16
19
13
13
1
35 35 35 53 80 23 23
Membership...........
New Job Classifications
Pension Ran..........
Period of Agreement...
V.....	4
IV..... 3
XV....	31
II...Q3
INDEX
Article Page
Posted Back Up Positions........................67
Probationary Period...................XII...... 19
Purpose of Agreement.................. I....... 1
Recognition...........................Ill...... 1
Safety Equipment and Apparel..........X........ 13
Semi-Private Hospital Care............XIV...... 23
Seniority.............................XII...... 19
Seniority Ranking.............................. 45
Severance Pay.........................XIX...... 36
Shift Differential....................XI....... 16
Shift Workers Schedule................ XI...... 16
Statutory Holidays....................VII...... 9
Trades Tools..........................X........ 13
Trades Training - Schedule of Rates............ 40
Union Membership......................V........ 5
Vacations With Pay....................VI....... 5
Vision Care Plan......................XIV...... 23
Wage Schedule.................................. 43
Weekend Maintenance............................ 54
Weekly Indemnity......................XIV...... 23
CONTENTS
Article I Article II Article III Article IV Article V Article VI Article VII Article VIII Article IX Article X Article XI Article XII Article XIII Article XIV
Article XV Article XVI Article XVII Article XVIII Article XIX Article XX Article XXI
Page
Purpose......................I
Period....................... I
Recognition and Jurisdiction... 1
Rates and Classifications.... 3
Union Membership.............4
Vacations With Pay........... 5
Holidays With Pay............7
Adjustment of Grievances..... 9
No Strike - No Lockout....... 13
Working Conditions........... 13
Hours of Work................. 16
Seniority..................... 19
Bulletin Boards................23
Health and Welfare............ 23
14:01 Weekly Indemnity....... 23
14:02 Long Term Disability ... 24 14:03 Group Life Insurance.... 28 14:04 Medical, Surgical,Efcug'&
Hospital Care Plans...29
14:05 Dental Care Plan....... 29
14:06 Vision Care Plan....... 30
14:07 Benefits at Lay Off.... 31
Pension Plan................ 31
Bereavement Pay............  34
Jury Duty....................35
Leave of Absence............ 35
Severance Pay................36
ApprenticeshipPlan.......... 37
Automation and
Technological Change.........41
Schedule “A” Schedule “B” Schedule “C" Schedule "D”
Trades Training - Schedule of Wage Rates., 40
Occupation Codes. Rates. Dates ........43
Union Seniority List ...................45
Letters of Understanding ..............53
1.	Weekend Maintenance Schedule ......54
2.	Filling Job Postings re Article 12:07.56
3.	Lay Off and Recall After Lay Off. 58
4.	Floating Holidays ................ 59
5.	Coveralls......................... 61
6.	Disputed W.C.B. Claims ............62
7.	Weekly Indemnity.................. 63
8.	Meals ............................ 64
9.	Electrical Maintenance............ 66
10.	Posted Back-Up Positions ........ 67
11.	Climatic Controls ................68
12.	Hours of Work ................... 69
13.Overtime Distribution.............. 70
14.0vertime Welding................... 72
15.	Lumber Graders................... 74
16.	Management of the Labour Pool... 76
17.	Management of Technological Change .77
Schedule “E’ General Information
79
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE

1:01 The purpose of this Agreement is to secure foi the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages and working conditions as specified in Articles of this Agreement and to secure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operations. quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This agreement moreover seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
1:02 Throughout this Agreement, use of the masculine gender shall be considered also to include the feminine.
ARTICLE II - PERIOD
2:01 , The Company and the Union agree one with the other (hat they will abide by the Articles of this Agreement from September 1st, 1995 to August 31st, 1998 inclusive,
and trom year to year thereatter unless either party ds-
change or terminate the Agreement, in which case, the party desiring the change ortermination shall notify the other party, in writing, within ninety (90)dayspriortoAugust31st of the particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party, in writing, as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITIONAND JURISDICTION
3:01 (a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all its employees employed by the Company on its operations in Nairn Township.
For the purpose of this Article, employees shall be all those employed on thej ob classifications set out on the Wage Schedule attached to and forming part of the
1
Agreement, including those who are engaged on job classifications which may be established and become part of the Wage Schedule during the term of the Agreement. This provision excludes: Shift Supervisor, persons above the rank of Shift Supervisor, Scalers, Office Staff and Security Personnel.
3:01 (b) The employees of contractors engaged on operations of the Company in Nairn Township shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement, save and except the employees of contractors and/or contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work. The Union will be advised at least two (2) weeks in advance of any Company plans to “contract out work” except in the case of a genuineemergency.
3:02 (a) Supervisory personnel, Relief Production Supervisor while replacing ProductionShift Supervisors,
which includes contractors, whose employees are considered to be employees underthis Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involve physical danger to employees or danger to property.
3:02 (b) The Company will not contract out repair and maintenance work which is normally performed by the maintenance crew, for which the mill is equipped, for which crews are available and which employees are capable of performing.
3:03 It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as the result of anyjurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union affiliated with the C.L.C. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such matters as fixed by the C.L.C. and the Company will not be asked to act upon any matter of jurisdiction between organizations of the C.L.C,
2
ARTICLE IV - RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4:01 The Wage Schedule is attached hereto and forms a part of this Agreement.
4:02 If, during the life of this Agreement, a significant change in thejob content occurs in anyjob classification listed in the attached Wage Schedule, the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement, the matter may be referred to Stage III of the Grievance Procedure.
4:03	For job classifications not listed in the attached
Wage Schedule, the Company shall set a temporary wage rate. Where the Company has prior knowledge of the necessity for establishing a new job classification, the Company will notify the Union, in writing, at least two (2) weeks in advance, and if the Union requests, the Company will discuss the applicable rates and conditions prior to the commencement ofthe newjob. Where circumstances require immediate and unforeseen establishment of a new job classification, the Company will notify the Union, in writing, immediately.
Any such rates will be based on comparison with the prevailing rate for similar and/or related occupations in the attached Wage Schedule.
After a thirty (30) day trial period any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Union and, after such agreement is reached, it shall then become a part of the Wage Schedule and be attached thereto. It is understood that the thirty (30) day period can be extended by mutual consent of the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement on a rate or rates, the matter may be referred to Stage III of the Grievance Procedure. Rates when established shall be retroactive to the date of establishment of the new job classifications.
3
ARTICLE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5:01 Any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement. The Union shall be the solejudge as to whether an employee is a member in good standing and shall notify the Company promptly of any change in the standing of any such employee.
5:02 (a) When hiring new employees, subject to the skill and ability of the applicants to perform the work required of them, the Company will give preference to Union members.
If Union members do not apply the Company shall have the right to employ non-Union help.
The Company agrees to advise the Union from time to time of its labour requirements.
5:02 (b)	New employees shall make application tojoin the
Union when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union official. The Company shall upon hiring, advise all new employees to report to the Financial Secretary within ten (10) days of commencing work. Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate termination of employment.
5:03 (a) The Company will deduct from all employees covered by the Labour Agreement from monies due them and remit to the Union, initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues but not fines, assessments or other levies.
5:03 (b) Deductions so made will be remitted to the Union monthly, said remittance to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names with Christian names as payrolled, A copy of the list will be given by the Company to the Financial Secretary of the Union or his representative.
4
5:03 (c) Yearly Union dues deductions will be shown on the T-4 slips.
5:04 Union representatives shall have the right to visit the operation in connection with Union business. Such representatives shall report to the Personnel Supervisor or Operations Manager on arrival.
5:05 The Union shall furnish the Company with the listing of local Union officers and shall amend these lists promptly as changes occur. Failure to advise the Company of such changes will notin anyway affect the authority of the Unionomcers.
5:06 The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
ARTICLE VI -VACATIONS WITH PAY
6:01 (a) Vacation pay shall be paid to each employee by cheque to be issued at the time of termination or when the vacation is taken. Vacation pay shall be paid to each employee by separate cheque.
6:01 (b) Vacation pay credits shall be paid to each employee on the following basis:
(1)	Four percent (4%) of gross earnings for employees who have worked less than four (4)years in one period of employment with the Company.
(2)	Six percent (6%) of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than four (4)years, but less than ten (10) years in one period of employment with the Company.
(3)	Eight percent (8%) of gross earnings for
5
employees who have worked more than ten (10) years, but less than eighteen (18) years in one period of employment.
(4)	Ten percent (10%) of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than eighteen (18) years but less than twenty-five (25) years in any one period of employment.
(5)	Twelve percent (12%)of gross eamingsfor employees who have worked irons than twenty-five (25) years.
(6)	In the case of employees whose period of employment dates backto June 1, 1963, their years of service shall be calculated as from June 1st, 1963. In the case of employees whose period of employment started after June 1st, 1963, years of service shall be calculated from date of hiring.
Status of present employees is as shown on Schedule “C” attached.
(7)	Employees will be paid one normal weeks earnings at their regular rate of pay for each week of vacation or 2% of gross earnings in the previous calendar years, whichever is greater. Employees must have worked at least 750 hours during each calendar year. Time off due to compensable accidents shall be considered as time worked.
6:02 A period of employment is defined for purpose of this Agreement as:
(a) In the case of an employee who has established seniority as a period during which he maintains his accrued seniority.
(b) In the case of a probationary employee as a period not broken by a leave or an absence of more than three (3) working days, excepting layoff.
6:03 An employee who has been continually employed for one year shall take vacation time off at a time which is satisfactory to the employee and the Company. Each two
6
percent (2%) of vacation pay credit shall entitle an employee to one (1) week of time off each year.
6:04 Vacation schedules will be completed by March 15th and vacations will be confirmed and posted by April 15th of each year.
6:05 Vacation requests made after March 15th will be confirmed as soon as possible but in no case later than one month after the request.
6:06 All employees will be instructed on August I5 to schedule any outstanding vacations at a time satisfactory to him and his supervisor. Employees who have not scheduled their outstanding vacation by September 15 will have it assigned by the Company.
ARTICLE VII ■ HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7:01 Employees who have acquired seniority status by having completed their probationary period shall be qualified to be paid without the performance of work for the following holidays:
New Years Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday, and if the holiday fails on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
Canada Day and Remembrance Day may be observed on Friday or Monday with mutual agreement between parties.
Remembrance Day (November 11th) holiday will be observed during Christmas and New Year’s period. The shutdown day will be mutually agreed no later than September
7
1st each year. If a; September 1st, the 1
1 Ith
;reement of the date is not reached by loliday will be observed on November
In addition, employees who have accumulated three (3) months seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidays per contract year (September 1st to August 31st) to be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor. Floating holidays not taken prior to July 1 st in each year will be scheduled.
An employee who, by reason of layoff, is prevented from taking his floating holiday(s) shall receive pay in lieu of such holiday(s),
7:02 (a) An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, is eligible for holiday pay provided:
(i)	He works his last scheduled shift prior to the holiday and first scheduled shift following the holiday, unless prevented by circumstances beyond his control, or
(ii)	If an employee has worked any of the available work days within the thirty (30) days immediately prior to the holiday, is on authorized leave of absence when the holiday occurs, he shall receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during his absence, or
(iii)	An employee who is obliged to cease work due to layoff during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay forthe holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period, or
(iv)	An employee who is obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitionerduring the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period.
7:02 (b)	Hourly paid employees will receive eight (8) times
their hourly rate.
8
7;02 (c) If an employee who qualifies under Article Xll is recalled and works anytime duringthefourteen (14)calendar day period immediately following the holiday(s), he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday(s),
7:03 An employee who is requested to work on any of the holidays in Section 7:01 shall be paid for all time worked at one and one-half times his regular rate up to eight (8) hours worked, and double time after eight (8) hours.
7:04 An employee on regular vacation during a week in which a statutory holiday falls, shall have the option of having a day off with pay at a time mutually convenient to the employee and his supervisor within the following 180 days or having the holiday pay added to his regular vacation pay. If the employee elects not to defer his holiday payment, he must advise Management not later than ten (10) days prior to the commencement of his vacation period.
ARTICLE VIII • ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8:01 It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of an employee be adjusted as quickly as possible. It is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given his shiftsupervisoran opportunity to adjust his complaint. Prior to reducing a complaint to a grievance as per Article 8:03 the employee may request his Shop Steward to be present at any further discussion with his shift supervisor.
8:02 (a) The Company shall recognize the Grievance Committee which shall consist of the President, two executive officers and at the discretion of the Grievance Committee the Steward involved.
It is understood that the Stewards and other Union officers shall not be absent from their regular duties in order to deal with a grievance without obtaining prior authorization from their shift supervisor. This permission will not be
9
unreasonably withheld.
The Company agrees to pay members of the Grievance Committee for loss of wages for authorized time lost for handling of grievances.
The shop Stewards recognized by this Agreement shall be as follows:
a)	Planer Mill	(include mobile equipment	operators)
b)	Large Log Mill	(include mobile equipment	operators)
c)	Small Log Mill (include mobile equipment operators)
d)	Processor &Yard (include mobile equipment operators
,	& garage)
e)	Maintenance	(include electrical crew)
When the operating schedule for (a) to (d) consists of more than one shift there will be one Steward on each shift.
8:02 (b) It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee members or other Union members.
8:03	A grievance under the provision of this Agreement
is defined to be any difference between the parties orbetween the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
8:04 STEP I ■ Grievances as defined above shall be taken by the employee together with the Union Steward havingjurisdiction directly to the employee’s immediate shift supervisor for adjustment. Any grievances submitted to the shift supervisor in accordance with this procedure shall be in writing and will be disposed of by the shift supervisor in writing. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then;
STEP II - The matter shall be taken up by a member of the Grievance Committee and the Steward havingjurisdiction with the Area Supervisor. This
10
procedure shall be in writing and will be disposed of by the Area Supervisor within five (5) days, then;
STEP III - Within ten (10) days the matter shall be taken up by the Grievance Committee with the General Manager of the Company or his representative. Failing a satisfactory adjustment then;
STEP IV - Within fifteen (15) days themattershall be referred to the President of the Company or his representative by the Grievance Committee and the National Representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then;
STEPV - Either party may within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter to Arbitration.
In Arbitration, the Company and the Union shall each select one man; these two (2) shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party’s nomination. The Arbitration Board’s decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the, event of the failure of the two (2) people selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third party.
All time limits mentioned in the grievance procedure may be extended by mutual consent of the Company and the Union. If a grievance is processed through to arbitration the Arbitration Board shall have the power to relieve against noncompliance of time limits.
8:05	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration
Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4:02 and rates for job classifications under Section 4:03 and to revise the rates
11
therefore. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8:06 Sundays, Statutory and Legal Holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
8:07 A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with, in writing, by both parties and must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Grievances dealing with suspension shall be processed in the first step whenever possible. Where such an employee’s grievance is not processed from the first step, it may be processed starting at the second step of the Grievance Procedure. In the case of suspension by the Company, the Company shall notify the employee, in writing, of the reason for such suspension.
Discharge grievances will be processed beginning at Step III of the grievance procedure. The Company shall notify the employee, in writing, the reason for discharge.
In the event that an employee is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his job under terms and conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8:08 Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the board.
8:09 Grievances which involve Company policy in respect to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement may be processed commencing at Step III of this grievance procedure.
8:10 If the Company has a grievance as defined in Section 8:03, it shall commence at Step II of this grievance procedure by the General Manager or his representative
12
presenting the matter, in writing, to the officers of the Union.
8:11 Employees to be disciplined (written warning, suspension or discharge) by the Company will be provided with Union representation. When an employee has been indefinitely suspended from work, the parties will endeavour to meet before the employee’s next regular scheduled shift or at a time agreeable to both parties.
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
There shall be no strike caused, called, or supported by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X - WORKING CONDITIONS
10:01 (a) It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a Joint Health & Safety Committee to promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at least two (2) meetings of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of the Chairman shall alternate between a Company Co-chairman and a Union Co-chairman.
The Chairman of each meeting shall make a report in triplicate, copies going to the Company office, the Union office, and the bulletin boards.
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time off from his work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time for which he shall be paid straight time while on shift or time and one half if off shift for all hours in attendance at the safety meetings (call out time not applicable).
All required safety equipment (excluding safety boots) is provided at the employee’s induction, and on-the-
13
job familiarization and safety training is provided by immediate supervisor.
10:01 (b) The Company agrees that Local 31-X representatives will attend all future E. B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd./ Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union Safety Conferences. Six (6) delegatesfrom Local 31-X may attend the conference. These delegates will be compensated for any loss of wages incurred as a result of attending the Conference.
10:02 It is agreed that there shall be properly equipped first-aid kits sufficient for normal requirements, located on the operation.
10:03 The Company agrees to provide a statement for each weekly pay period to all employees, showing all credits, deductions, hours of work and the rate per hour, all hours worked at premium rate, and the type of work performed by the employee during such pay period.
10:04 All hand tools and equipment required on thejob will be made available to all employees on loan. When an operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a mechanical repair job, he will be furnished such tools as are required. All tools and equipment not returned will be charged for in full. Worn out or broken tools will be replaced with serviceable tools free of charge provided that the worn out or broken tools are returned. The Company will provide free insurance against damage by fire or theft of tradesmen’s tools normally required by tradesmen to the full replacement value of such tools. Employees will be required to furnish the same tools which were required in the past. Tradesmen, to be eligible for above insurance, must provide the Company with a list of their tools. Employees’ damaged or broken tools must be reported to the supervisor and arrangements are made for replacement. The same policy applies to tools lost by fire or theft. However,there may be some delay in the replacement as we must investigate the circumstances.
10:05 The Company agrees that it will furnish on loan, all mandatory safety equipment and personal safety apparel save and except safety boots.
14
The Company further agrees to sell to employees
safety boots at sixty dollars ($60.00)below invoice price to
the Company effective date of ratification.
Effective September 1, 1997, further increase subsidy to seventy dollars ($70.00) below invoice price to the Company.
The Company will subsidize all Debarker Operators $12.00 per pair for chainsaw safety pants purchased.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union or is mandatory under Government legislation.
The Company will provide qualitywork gloves for all employees.
10:06 With a mill-wide compulsory safety eyeglass policy, the company, will provide all safety glasses, including industrial prescription safety glasses.
10:07 The Company agrees to supply on loan, raincoats and oilers aprons, however, this shall not apply to normal personal items, such as shoes, pants, etc.
10:08 The Company agrees to discuss with the Union ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement and also the interpretation of this Agreement. Such meetings or discussions could be held every month, unless circumstances arise that would necessitate immediate meetings or discussions on matters involved.
10:09 As per the attached Letter of Understanding re Coveralls, the Company agrees to the addition of one (1) pair of coveralls making available five (5) pair of coveralls to all tradesmen.
10:10 The Company will ensure that adequate 15
temperatures are provided in lunch and washrooms.
10:11 The Company provides first aid arrangements as required by Provincial laws.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11:01 (a)The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week Monday to Saturday inclusive. The work week for day or shift workers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
It is agreed that day work or shift work employees may be required to work in excess of their regular work day or shift or work week, and will be paid in accordance with Section 11:05 for such time worked. If an employeerequests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
11:01 (b)For the purpose of this Agreement, Sunday shall begin at 7:00 a.m. on Sunday and end at 7:00 a.m. Monday.
A holiday shall begin at 7:00 a.m. the day of the holiday and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following the holiday. An employee’s “sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. of that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
11:02 (a)The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., meal time excepted. There will be a 1/2 hour unpaid lunch period.
11:02 (b)The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 4:00 p.m, and 12:30 a.m., meal time excepted. There will be a 1/2 hour unpaid lunch period.
11:03 (a)On other two-shift operations, the first shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after. The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time
16
excepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shall carry a shift differential of the second shift.
11:03 (b)On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutive hours. The starting and stopping times for the three (3)shifts and the shift differentials to be paid, shall be as follows:
Starting Time (between the hours of) 1 st shift	7:00 a,m. - 8:00 am
2nd shift 3:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m, 3rd shift 11:00 p.m. -12:00 a.m.
StoppingTime (between the hour of) 3:00 p.m. -4:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m. -12:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m. - 8:00 a.m.
Effective date of ratification: Shift Differential:
1st shift - nil;
2nd shift - 47p per hour; 3rd shift - 57<2 per hour;
Effective September I 1997-Shift Differential:
1st shift - nil;
2nd shift - 50p( per hour; 3rd shift - 60p( per hour.
11:03 (c)The hours of work and the “sixth day” for day workers and shift workers shall be posted by 3:00 p.m, Thursday of the previous week. However, the Company reserves the right to revise the schedules when necessary up to 12:00 noon Friday previous to work week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of
17
at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
When an agreement for a change of shift by employees is requested, forms for this shift change will be made available by the Supervisor for signature by the employees concerned and their Supervisors.
11:03 (d)If an employee, who has completed his scheduled work week, is required for work on his “sixth day” or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted by the preceding Friday noon. If he is available for the posted overtime work at regular starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control he shall receive four (4) hours pay at time and one-haif provided he remain available for the four (4) hour period if so requested by the Company.
11:04 (a)A day or shift worker who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be paid for the full day or shift.
To qualify for the above the employee must stay on thej ob until told by the Shift Supervisor that he may leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered.
11:04 (b)If, during his scheduled work week, a day or shift worker reports for work at his scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, and if no reasonable efforts have been made to notify him not to report, he shall receive four (4)hours pay for reporting, provided he remains available for the four (4) hour period if so requested by the Company
Notification procedures shall be established
locally.
11:05 Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked on Sunday and all hours worked by an employee on his designated “sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) or outside his scheduled shift shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a Sunday. Overtime work required will be distributed on as equal a basis as possible among the
18
employees who normally perform the work in the classifications requiring overtime.
For calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall not be considered as part of an employee’s applicable hourly rate.
When an employee is called out for overtime work, after completing his shift or when called out on his day off, he shall be guaranteed four (4)hours pay at time and one-half if he works less than four (4)hours, and eight (8) hours at time and one-half if he is unable to work the full eight (8) hours.
The Company will record overtime worked by each employee for each week and post in a visible location.
11:06 A ten minute “quarter time” on Company time shall be allowed twice each day and night.
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
12:01 The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability, in promotions, transfers, layoffs, and recalls after layoffs.
As of September 1, 1995, the seniority ranking of employees is as set in Schedule “C” attached.
12:02 Employment of any new employees shall be considered as probationary until he has completed thirty (30) days of work in one period of employment. Upon completion of this probationary period he shall be classed as a qualified employee with seniority ranking dating back to his date of hire. A discharge, quit or absence without leave, shall break any accumulation of qualifying days.
12:03 In the case of layoff due to a shortage of work the Company will notify the men intended to be laid of at least two (2) work days in advance, unless the shortage of work is
19
beyond the Company's control. The Union Grievance Committee will receive a list of the men affected, prior to the intended layoff.
12:04 When the approximate time of the recall is known at the time of layoff employees leaving will be informed of such approximate dates at that time. But in any case, notice in writing will be sent to an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employees will be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the date specified unless other arrangements have been made in writing.
12:05 An employee who has established seniority and who returns to work in time shall retain his seniority ranking during absences due to:
(a)	sickness or injury, certified by a licensed physician, dentist, or licensed chiropractor.
(b)	Iayoff for lack of work not exceeding twenty-four (24) months.
(c)	leaves-of-absence granted at the employee's request not exceeding ten(10) months.
(d)	employment with the Union not exceeding eleven (11) months.
(e)	employment with the Company outside the bargaining unit not exceeding eleven (II) months.
An employee who quits of his own accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or fails to report to work following recall as provided in Section 12:04 shall automatically lose all seniority. An employee who fails to return from leave-of-absence on the date specified, shall lose his seniority unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control. All absences from work must be covered by leaves-of-absence the issue of which is discretionary but which will not be withheld unreasonably.
12:06 In transfer of employees from one job classification to another, senior employees with the necessary qualifications shall receive first consideration. In such cases an employee shall receive the rate for the j ob to which he is
20
, transferred. When, due to shortage of work, an employee prefers to transfer to a lower paid job classification the employee shall receive the rate for his new job classification as of the date of transfer. In the case of a temporary change to a lower job classification at the Company’s request, the employee shall retain the rate of his previousjob classification.
Tradespeople will not be permitted to apply/bid outside their classification until they have worked in the specific trade as a licensed tradesperson for a period of time equal to their apprenticeship. An employee hired on directly as a licensed tradesperson will not be permitted to apply/bid outside his classification for aperiod of one year, in a lay off situation, laid off tradespeople will exercise mill seniority.
12:07(a)TheCompany,when filling vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordance with Article XII. Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on the bulletin boards for five (5) working days.
Temporary appointments may be made without posting for filling vacancies of less than two (2) calendar weeks duration. Newly created jobs will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Company for five (5) working days prior to any appointments to such jobs, stating normal job requirements. Employees shall not be considered for such jobs unless they apply in writing within this five (5) day period. The Company shall post notices showing the names of successful applicants for posted vacancies and newly createdjobs. A newly created position can, at the Company's discretion, be considered temporary for not more than twelve (12) consecutive months. Should it be decided during this 12 month period to make the position permanent, then the job will be posted as per Article 12:07 (a).
The job will be filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12:01 of this Agreement. Employees accepting the posted jobs shall be allowed (5) work days in which to qualify (or a further time as may be mutually agreed). Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his formerj ob without loss of seniority
or benefits.
21
Employees who were absent for any o f the reasons setforthin 12:07 (b) whenthejob was posted, and who qualify on the basis of Section 12:01 and the provisionsof this section, shall automatically be listed as an applicant on the job. Immediately upon his return he will be so advised by the Company and must signify forthwith that he is allowing the application to stand. Failure to so signify will render the application null and void.
12:07 (b)Ajob that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement leave, Jury duty and/or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work days, shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall he filled according to the provisions of Section 12:07 (a) and thejob posting will note that it is of a temporary nature.
The employee who had occupied the job, upon his return to work shall once again occupy thejob that he had filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth above, provided however, that thejob is still in effect and is not filled by a senior employee who, for reasons of notice of layoff from his former job has exercised his seniority on this particular job.
12:08 Lists showing the seniority ranking of employees will be prepared and posted on Company hiilletin boards, available for the information of all employees and will be updated and revised every month, A copy of this listing will be forwarded to the Union at least once a year.
12:09 Tlie management and the operation of the plant, and the direction and the promotion of the working forces is vested exclusively in the management of the Company subject only to the seniority Article herein and provided, however, that this will not be used for discrimination against employees.
12:10 When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of new methods, automationand technological change or due to curtailment of operations (excluding normal fluctuations in production levels) affected employees shall
22
be offered alternative employment on remaining jobs in accordance with Article XII, to meet the Company’s labour requirement and if such employees require training to perform the alternativeemployment effectively, they shall be trained by the Company.
ARTICLE XIII ■ BULLETIN BOARDS
13:01 The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company providing such notices have been approved by the Personnel Supervisor or Manager.
The Company will provide four Union notice boards in the following locations:
-one in each lunch room and one in the waiting room for Small Log Mill and Processor
ARTICLE XIV ■ HEALTH AND WELL ARE 14:01 WEEKLY INDEMNITY - The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of a Weekly Indemnity insurance plan. The plan will provide seventy percent (70%) of the employee’s regular straight-time rate up to the maximum notedbelowortheU.I.C. maximum, whichever the greater, to commence on the first day in case of a noncompensable accident or hospitalization and after three continuous days from the commencement of a disability due to sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks.
Effective first of the month following date of ratification for all employees actively at work, the maximum weekly indemnity benefit will be increased to $460/\veek orthe U.I.C, maximum, whichever the greater.
Effective September 1, 1996 for all employees actively at work, the maximum weekly indemnity benefit will be increased to $470/week or the U.I.C. maximum, whichever the greater.
23
Effective September 1,1997 for all employees actively at work, the maximum weekly indemnity benefit will be increased to $480/week or the U.I.C. maximum, whichever the greater.
14:02 LONG TERM DISABILITY - The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurance policy.
1.	Eligibility -TheLong Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated two months seniority with the Company.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage - An eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Plan becomes effective. The plan becomes effective February 1,1979.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
An eligible employee absent from work due to layoff at the effective date of the Plan shall be entitled to the Long Term Disability Benefit plan benefits upon recall on reporting to work.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning from such layoff to determine their eligibility under the Plan.
3.	Qualifying Period - An insured employee shall he eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Plan Benefit after fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike. 24
4,	Definition of Disability • “Disability” shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injury to work at any available occupation in the Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience,
5,	Amount of Benefit
(a)	The disability benefit shall be 50% of the monthly earnings as defined in 5(b), up to a maximum monthly payment of $1,900.00.
Effective September 1, 1997 for those employees actively at work increase the maximum monthly benefitfrom 50% of monthly earnings as defined in (5)(b) up to a maximum monthly payment of $1900 to 55% with a maximum monthly payment of $2000.00.
(b)	“Monthly Earnings” means, in the case of a day or shift worker, 173 x his regular hourly rate.
(c)	“Hourly Rate” means the regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime.
(d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced by any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefits are not affected by War Pensions, Workers’ Compensation Disability Pensions, or by any insurance policies he may have purchased himself.
6,	Duration of Benefit-
(a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
25
(b)	Service for purposes of the plan will be based on the seniority ranking of employees as is set in Schedule “C” attached.
(c)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in
arrears.
7.	Termination of Benefits - Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
(a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
(c)	Up to normal retirement age, or
(d)	On death.
8.	Exclusion -
(a) An employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits will not be eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
(b) Benefits underthe Long Term Disability Plan will not be payable for claims resulting from:
(i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
(ii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Worker’s Compensation or si mi lar legislation, or
(iii)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury,
26
while sane or insane, cr
(iv)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
(v)	Alcoholism or drug addition, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employeeis undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
(vi)	Disability or loss (1) while the employeeis on, or could be placed on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave, or (2) if employee fails to quality for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to meetthe length of servicerequirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment StandardsAct 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation - An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonablerehabilitationmeasures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee’s doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation,he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examinations - The Company and/ or insurer reserves the right to require periodical physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee’s absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations,transportation and reasonableout-of-pocketexpenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
Any dispute arising between the Company and/ or the insurer’s physician and the employee’sphysician will be resolved by a physician (preferably a specialist) chosen by the Company and the Union.
27
11.	Effective first of the month following date of ratification, the Company is prepared to extend Medical, Surgical,Drug and Hospital Care Plan Coverage to all employees on Long Term Disability for a period of their disability.
14:03 GROUP LIEE INSURANCE - The London Life Insurance Company, E. B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd., Group Policy No. 1 1706 will remain in effect during the life of this Agreement.
The above plan benefit will be $40,000.00 life insurance with twenty-four (24) hour Accidental Death and Dismemberment (A.D. & D.) coverage for each active employee.
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%)of the premium cost of Life Insurance.
It isunderstood that the 5/12th rebate to employees under U.t.C. will be retained by the Company
Spflusg and Children
Effective first of month following date of ratification, the Company will provide dependent Life Insurance on the following basis:
1)	Employee pays 100% of cost.
2)	Spouse$5,000.00.
3)	Each unmarried child
a)	14 days but less than I year of age $400.00
b)	I year but less than 19 years or 25 years when a student full time, wholly dependent on the employee for support $2,000,00
c)	The spouse’s Life Insurance will be reduced to $500.00 upon the employee’s retirement and cancelled on his death.
28
Paid-1 In Life Retirees
The Company will provide a paid-up Life Insurance policy at age 65 cf$2,500,00, Company will pay premium cost of this benefit.
14:04 MEDICAL, SURGICAL, DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS - The Company will pay the premium for the Liberty Health Drug Plan and SemiPrivate Hospital Care Plan coverage for all active employees during the term of this Agreement.
The Company contribution to employees who are off work due to a Worker’s Compensation claim or a Weekly Indemnity claim will be continued for a period of up to twenty-four (24) months.
The Company contributionto employees who are off work due to a Long Term Disability claim will be continued for the period of the disability.
14:05 DENTAL CARE PLAN
1.	Eligibility - Participation in the Plan is limited to employees who have accumulatedthree months of seniority with the Company from date of employment.
2.	Plan Design -
a)	Service and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1. (100%)
b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2. (50%)Maximum $1,000.00 per calendar year per person.
c)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 3, (50%co-insurance).
The maximum lifetime benefit for orthodontic service covered expenses$l,000.00 pa-insured family member.
Effective first of the month following date of ratification amend plan to provide for the 1994 O.D.A. Schedule of Dental Fees.
29
Effective September I, 1996 amend plan to provide for the 1995 O.D.A. Schedule of Dental Fees.
Effective September 1, 1997 amend plan to provide for the 1996 O.D.A. Schedule of Dental Fees.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due to layoff or leave of absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month following the month in which such absence commenced.
3.	Administration - The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the Plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, insurance companies or self-administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	Premiums - The premium cost of this Plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Integration - The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement Federal or Provincial government shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan, the Plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
14:06 VISION CARE PLAN - Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, E. B, Eddy Forest Products Ltd,, Group Policy 60526 will remain in effect during the life of this Agreement.
Benefit will be equivalent to Blue Cross Vision Care Plan (Basic) ($100/2 calendar years) for all employees and their dependents.
30
Effective September 1, 1996 benefit will be equivalent to Blue Cross Vision Care Plan (Basic) ($125/2 calendar years) for all employees and their dependents.
Benefit will be equivalent to Blue Cross Vision Care Plan (Basic) ($ 125/2 calendar years) for all employees and their dependents. Effective September 1,1996, amend the vision care plan to provide for a maximum benefit of $125 every 2 calendar years.
14:07 BENEFITS AT LAY OFFS ■ The following benefits shall be paid to the end of the month following lay off:
a)	Life Insurance
b)	Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care Plan,
c)	Dental Care Plan
d)	Vision Care Plan
ARTICLE XV ■ PENSION PLAN
15:01 FLAT BENEFIT PLAN - The Company will establish and administer a non-contributory pension plan for all hourly-rated employees with one year of service or more effective September 1, 1984, Normal retirement will be first day of the month following attainment of age 65, An employee with ten (10) years of continuousCompany service can electto retire after age 55, however, the monthly payments will be actuariallyreduced. The cost of the plan will be paid by the Company.
Guaranteed Payments - If a retired employee’s death occurs before he has received sixty (60) monthly payments of retirement income under the plan, his retirement income payments will continue to be paid to his beneficiary until the remainder of the sixty (60) monthly payments has been paid from the trust fund.
31
Surviving Spouse Pension - If a married employee with 10 years of continuous service with the Company, who qualifies for early retirement after age 55 and before age 65, dies before his retirement date the employee's surviving spouse will receive 60% of the earned pension allowance for the life of the surviving spouse, commencing on the first day of the month following date of death. If the surviving spouse is more than 10 years younger than the deceased employee, the monthly pension would be actuarially reduced.
Disability Benefit - An employee with at least 10 years of continuous service who has attained age 55, has qualified for disability benefits under the CPP/QPP and is totally and permanently disabled will be eligible for a monthly disability pension without actuarial reduction.
(i) Effective September 1,1995 the Flat Pension Plan is amended to provide for $32,00 per month per year of pensionable service for both past and future service.
in) Effective September 1.1995. any member in service who elects to retire early upon his/her attainment of age 60 or after, provided he has accumulated at least ten (10) years of continuous service, will receive, commencing on his/her early retirement date, a retirement income benefit equal to the retirement incomebenefit he/ she had accumulated to such early retirement date without actuarial reduction subject to the minimum reductions required by Revenue Canada.
(iii) Effective September 1,1995. any member who has attained age sixty (60)and has accumulated a minimum of ten (10) years of continuous service shall be eligible to the following bridging supplement.
Those employees retiring early on or after age 60 with at least ten (10) years of continuous service shall receive a bridging supplement of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month per year of continuous service to a maximum of thirty (30)years. The bridging supplement will reduce to zero on the first day of the month following the member's sixty-fifth (65th) birthday or on his/her death, whichever occurs first.
32
Employees off work on Long Term Disability benefits shall continue to accrue Flat Benefit Pension credits at no cost. This provision is to be applied to those employees currently receiving Long Term Disability benefits.
15:02	MONEY PURCHASE PLAN -Effective January
1,	1993, in addition to the current Flat Benefit Plan noted above, a mandatory Money PurchasePlan will be introduced and will be applicable to all employees after one (I) year of service.
This new Money Purchase Plan will be contributed to by both the Company and the employee. The level of monthly contributions will be $45.00 by both the Company and the employee. Effective date of ratification, at the
option of the employee, the monthly contribution level by both the employeeand employerwill increase from $45,00 to $55,00
Effective January 1.1991, at the option of the employee, the monthly contribution level by both the employee and the employerwill further increase to $60.00
In addition to those options noted above, employees will be offered the opportunity to transfer monies generated from the Production Bonus into the Money Purchase Plan at their option. The administrative costs associated with the Money Purchase Plan are to be paid for by the Company. Any investmentfees will be the responsibility of the employee.
Employees off work on Long Term Disability shall be entitled to continue contributing into the Money Purchase Plan while off on disability. The Company agrees to make their contribution for as long as the employee continues to make his/her contributions.
Those employees on W.C.B, can continue to contribute into the Money Purchase Plan for up to twenty-four (24) months, If the employees elect to continue
33
contributing, the Company will continue to make their required contributions.
Employees who are off work due to a Weekly Indemnity claim can, for a period of up to twelve (12) months continue to contribute into the Money Purchase Plan. If the employees elect to continue contributing, the Company will continue to make their required contributions.
15:03	SEECIALRETIREMENT ALLOWANCE -Taking
into consideration that the benefit from the Money Purchase Plan for those employees retiring within the next two (2) years will be less than the benefit from those retiring later, the following “Special Retirement Allowance” will he implemented under the terms and conditions noted below:
This allowance will he made available to those employees retiring at age 65 during the next two (2) years and will provide the following benefit:
Retiring at age 65 Retirement Allowance Per Year
This amount will be paid as a lump sum payment at the date of retirement minus applicable taxes ortransferred directly to an RRSP as permitted.
ARTICLE XVI ■ BEREAVEMENT PAY
When death occurs to an employee’s spouse or children, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of five (5) days in the eight (8) day period beginning with the day of death. When death occurs to an employee’s father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
in Year:
X Years of Pensionable Service Accrued up to December 31, 1992
1995
1996
34
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, the employeewill be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days in the eight (8) day period beginning with the day of death. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. Pay will be granted for the regular scheduled work days lost during the period. Any claim for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee in writing along with proof of bereavement in the employee’s immediate family. If the employee does not attend the funeral, he shall receive one (1) days compassionateleave with pay.
An employee must have thirty (30) or more days of service to qualify for payment. The five day funeral leave will be granted over an eight day period for scheduled work days lost beginning with day death occurs.
An employee absent on scheduled vacation will be granted the usual number of days applicableto funeral leave in addition to his vacation at a time mutually convenient to the employee and the Company within sixty (60) days.
ARTICLE XVII - JURY DUTY
17:01 In the case of an employee who is called for jury service, subpoenaedwitness or crown witness,the Company shall pay, for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straighttime hourly rate and the payment he received forjury service. The employee will present proof of service and ofpay received therefore when making his claim for such allowance.
The employee will be excused from his shift if he is required to work anytime in the calendar day he is required forjury duty.
ARTICLE XVIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
18:01 The Company agrees to pay regular straight time
35
wages toemployees on temporary leave of absence forty (40) hours in one period for Union business. The local Union shall be billed for straight time wages paid. The Company will make all normal deductions for income tax. C.P.P., etc. A request in writing for a leave of absence for official Union business will be submitted to the Personnel Supervisor at least ten days in advance and the request will be granted subject to availability of employees to cover the vacancy. Requests in writing received less than ten days in advance will be granted provided the granting of the request will not affect operations. The payment of overtime premium will not be considered as affecting mill operations subject to availability of employees to cover the vacancy.
ARTICLE XIX ■ SEVERANCE PAY
A permanent employee with at least two years' continuous service who is laid off due to job elimination by Management decision for such causes as more efficient operation, change or elimination of a process, lack of orders, shall be paid severance pay if no job is available. Severance pay shall not be paid due to job elimination for such causes as fire, flood, explosion or "Act of God".
Severance pay shall be paid in accordance with the following:
(a)	Severance pay shall be 2% of an employee's total earnings for his last full period of service without interruption due to lack of work. Severance pay will not be paid to employees who resign or are discharged. One-half of this severance pay is payable after the employee has been laid off due to job elimination for a period of twelve (12) weeks. The second half of the severance pay is payable after the employee has been laid off a total of six (hjmonths. It shall be the responsibilityofthe employee to make application for such severance pay.
(b)	If recalled to work before the severance payment is payable, no such payment will be made. Any employee refusing a recall shall forfeit his tight to severance pay.
36
(c)	If an employee is recalled after having received all of the severance pay due him, he will, as of the day of return. commence a new period of accumulation which will be credited toward any future layoff.
(d)	If an employee is recalled after having received half of the severance pay due him, he will, upon return to work, retain the right to the unpaid portion which will be added to any new accumulation of severance pay.
ARTICLE XX • APPRENTICESHIP PLAN
20:01 An Ontario Government approved apprenticeship program will be established in the following trades:
Millwright
Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic
Electrician
Sawfiler
Others may be added as required.
The length of the apprenticeship programs will be four work periods of 2000 hours plus all mandatory school periods.
The number of employees in the apprenticeship program in each trade will be governed by the future manpower requirements in the trade.
1. The program will be based on the Ontario Government’sApprenticeship and Tradesmen’s Qualification Act.
2.	Applicants must have a minimum of grade 10 education or equivalentas required for a certified program. They will be required to submit to a series of aptitude tests to determine their suitability for the apprenticeship program. When more than the required number of applicants pass the aptitude tests the senior employee(s) shall be awarded the apprenticeship.
3.	The tests will be administered by the Director of
37
Human Resources, Wood Products and the results will be kept in strict confidence. When an employee is informed that he has failed the aptitude tests he shall be given, upon request, the results of the testing indicating tests passed and failed.
4.	Once a person has been successfully tested far a particular trade he does not have to be tested again. If he is not selected upon his first application he may apply again in the future. If he applies for a different trade which requires additional tests he will have to take the additional test.
5.	The formal training program will be completed and the certificates of qualification, both Government and Company. will be issued.
6.	Straight time overtime hours will apply towards the required accumulated time. The Personnel Department will keep records of accumulated time for each apprentice.
7.	Some of the regulated trades programs will require modification to ensure that apprentices learn tasks required in the Nairn operation
8.	Apprentices must acquire a complete set of trade related tools before 4800 work hours have been accumulated.
9.	There will be a sixty (60) day probationary period for ail employees entering the apprenticeship program. During this period, if the employee does not display the necessary aptitude for the particular trade he may be returned to his former job without loss of seniority. The apprentice must be successful at the in-school apprenticeship program in order to continue in the program. Two successive failures at school will constitute a dissolution of any contract between the Company and employee. Similarly the contract will be dissolved if the Advisory Committee recommends the withholding of two successive pay increases.
IO.	The Company agrees to provide apprentices the difference between forty (40)hours at his regular rate and any Government subsidies available while at the in-school 38
program. All benefits will continue during the period the apprentice is at school. The Company will provide seventy-five dollars (S75.00)per week for room and board in addition to the Government compensation. The Company will further supply all books or materials on loan to the apprentice in order to complete the required course.
11.	The progress of each apprentice will be recorded and kept on file in the Personnel Department.
12.	Wages will be in accordance with Schedule “A” attached.
13,	The program will be supervised by the Trades Training Advisory Committee, which will consist of two members of Local 31-X, two members of Management, and a Chairman. The Chairman’s position will be filled by the Director of Human Resources, Wood Products
14.	It is understood that the rate for the second, third or fourth period will not be paid until the apprentice completes the mandatory schooling at the end of each period. If the apprentices school results are successful, all hours worked between the end of a period, the time an apprentice goes to school, will be paid rates retroactive to the start of the period.
15.	In a lay off situation, those still on the property due to seniority will continue in or be recalled to the Apprenticeship Program based on progress (accumulated hours) to date.
39
SCHEDULE“A” SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES FOR
TRADES TRAINING PROGRAM
Millwrights
Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanics
Electricians
Sawfilers
Four periods of 2000 hours
Sept 1/95
1st Period 1-2000 hours $17.19 2nd Period 2001 -4000 hours 17,78 3rd Period 4001-6000 hours 18.39 4th Period 6001-8000 hours 18.94 Completion of Program 21.16
Sept 1/96 Sept 1/97
$17.71
18.31
18.94
19.51
21.79
$18.24
18.86
19,51
20.10
22.44
40
ARTICLE XXI - AUTOMATION AND
___________________________E
The Company proposed this introduction of an Article aimed at addressing automation and technological change:
(A)	The Company is concerned about the impact on employees and conditions of employment resulting from technological change, automation and change or elimination of a process.
(B)	A Joint Committee on Automation and/or Technological Change will be established consisting of six persons, three selected by Management and three selected by the Union. The function of the Joint Committee shall be advisory to Management and it will study the effects on employees,their employment status and their working conditions in the mill, of changes resulting from automation and/or technological change. The Joint Committee, among other things will consider early retirement, retraining, transfers to other jobs, as well as the availability of assistance from the various levels of Government as a means of assisting employeesdisplaced by changes resulting from automation and/or technological change.
(C)	Having concern for the impact of such changes which may result in job elimination, the Company undertakes to advise the Union as far In advance as is feasible (not less than ninety (90) days) of such changes which the Company has decided to introduce, which will result in significant change in the employment status of employees. The Company will indicate, when notification of this technological change is made, which position(s) will be affected.
(D)	At such time, the Company willsupply the Joint Committee, for its use, such information as may be required.
(E)	All persons who are employed with one (1)
41
years continuous service who are set back to a lower paid job due to job elimination under conditions set forth above, his rate shall he maintained for a period of six (6) months from date of set hack. For an additional period of six (6) months, an adjusted rate will he established midway between his previous rate at time of set back and the rate of his newj ob for each work week, which depends upon the operating schedule. At the end of one (1) year, the rate of the job to which he is assigned will apply.
42
SCHEDULE “B”
E.B.EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO OCCUPATION CODES. RATES AND DATES
Code Description
Present Sept 1/95 Sept 1/96 Sept 1/97
020
MD
060
070
080
090
100
no
120
130
140
150
160
170
180
210
220
230
240
250
260
270
280
290
300
310
320
330
340
350
360
370
380
390
400
410
420
430
Lumber Recovery Operator	$17.43
BinMan	$16.69
Butt Saw Operator	$16,89
Carpenter - Apprentice 1	$16.69
Carpenter-Apprentice 2	$17.26
Carpenter-Apprentice 3	$17,85
Carpenter -Apprentice4	$18,39
Carpenter	$20.54
Cherry Picker Operator	$17.32
ChipperCanter Operator	$18.51
Chipper Operator	$16,89
Chip Truck Driver	$17.74
CleanUp Person	$16.69
SlabRecovery Operator	$17.06
Diy Kiln Operator	$17.65
Electrician -Apprentice I	$16,69
Electrician .Apprentice2	$17.26
Electrician. Apprentice 3	$17,85
Electrician. Apprentice 4	$18.39
Electrician • Licensed	$20.54
Filer-Apprentice l	$16.69
Filer. Apprentice2	$17.26
Filer -Apprentice3	$17.84
Filer - Apprentice 4	$18.39
Filer- Licensed	$20.54
Filer Assistant	$ 18.39
Fitter	$17.85
Re-entty Operator	$17,92
Framer Infeed Mai	$16.69
Framer Operator	$ 17.69
Framer Oulfeed tifen	$16,76
General Labourer	$16.69
Greenchain Mai	$16.79
Hood Slasher Operator	$17,69
Descanner Operator	$17,61
LicensedGrader/Trimmerman $18.93 LiftOperator-Trainee(l-30 Days) $16.94 LiftOperator-TVainee(3l-60 Days)$17.l3
$17.95	$18.49
$17.19	$17.71
$17.40	$17.92
$17.19	$17.71
$17.78	$18.31
$18.39	$18.94
$18.94	$19.51
$21.16	$21,79
$17.84	$18,38
$19.07	$19.64
$17.40	$17.92
$18,27	$18.82
$17.19	$17.71
$17,57	$18.10
$18.18	$18.73
$17.19	$17.71
$17.78	$18.31
$18,39	$18,94
$18.94	$19.51
$21.16	$21.79
$17.19	$17,71
$17.78	$18.31
$18.38	$18.93
$18.94 $19,51 $21.16	$21,79
$18,94	$19.51
$18.39	$18.94
$18.46	$19.01
$17,19	$17,71
$18.22	$18.77
$17,26	$17.78
$17.19	$17.71
$17.29	$17.81
$18.22	$18.77
$18.14	$18.68
$19.50	$20.08
$17.45	$17.97
$17.64	$18.17
$19.05
$18.24
$18,46
$18.24
$18.86
$19.51
$20,10
$22,44
$18.93
$20.23
$18,46
$19.38
$18.24
$18,64
$19.29
$18,24
$18.86
$19.51
$20.10
$22.44
$18.24
$18,86
$19.49
$20.10
$22,44
$20,10
$19.51
$19.58
$18.24
$19.33
$18,31
$18.24
$18.35
$19.33
$19.24
$20,69
$18.51
$18,72
43
Code
440
450
460
470
4x0
490
500
510
520
550
560
570
580
590
610
620
640
650
660
680
690
710
720
730
740
750
760
770
780
790
810
820
830
840
850
860
870
880
890
900
910
920
930
940
980
990
Description
Lilt Operator - Lumber Handling Log Processor Operaior Licensed "B” Grader Mark II Operator Mechanic - Apprentice I Mechanic -Apprentice 2 Mechanic - Apprentice 3 Mechanic. Apprentice 4 Mechanic - Licensed Millwright - Apprentice 1 Millwright - Apprentice 2 Millwright .Apprentice 3 Millwright • Apprcniicc 4 Millwright Licensed Planer Mill Infeed Man Lumber Wrapper Poclnin Operator Stationary Loadct Operator Reman Operatoi Sucker Man Sticker Placer Trimmerman • LLM Truck Driver - S’/L.
Debarker Operaior Twin Resaw Operator Unlicensed Grader Utility Operator High Speed Stud Operator Wedge Mill Bundler Wedge Mill Operator Tilt Hoist Operator Strapper Operator Millwright - Unlicensed Sawlllcr - Unlicensed Heede Crane Operator Package Makcr/Operatnr Assistant Processor Operaior Processor Truck Driver Lift Operator - Log Handling Jumbo Operaior Crewleader- Millwright Crewleader- Electrical Relief Production Supervisor Batten Mill Operator East Scanner Operator Crewleader - Filing
Present Sept 1/95 Scpi 1/96 $17 32	$17 84	$18 37
$18.93	$19.50	$2008
$18.73	$19.29	$19 87
$17.93	$18.47	$19.02
$16.69	$17.19	$57 JI
$17.26	$17.78	$18 31
$17.85	$18.39	$18.94
$18.39	$18.94	$19.51
$20.54	$21.16	$2179
$16.69	$17 19	$17 71
$17.26	$17.78	$18.31
$17.85	$18.39	$18.94
$18.39	$18.94	$19.51
$20.54	$21.16	$2 1.79
$17.22	$17.74	$18.27
$17-10	$17.61	$18 14
$17.69	$18,22	$18.77
$17.32	$17.84	$18 37
$17.43	$17.95	$18.49
$17.06	$17.57	$18 10
$16.79	$17.29	$17 81
$17.69	$18.22	$18 77
$17.32	$17.84	$18.37
$17.33	$17.85	$18.39
$18.51	$19.07	$19 64
$17.06	$17.57	$18 10
$17.53	$18.06	$18.60
$17.93	$18.47	$19.02
$16.80	$17 30	$17 82
$17.09	$17.60	$18 13
$16,69	$17.19	$17.71
$17.19	$17.71	$18 24
$20.54	$21.16	$2179
$20.54	$21.16	$2 1.79
$19.28	$19.86	$20 45
$17.42	$17.94	$18.48
$17.69	$18.22	$18.77
$16.69	$17.19	$17.71
$17.32	$17.84	$18.38
$18.71	$19.27	$19 85
$21.29	$21.93	$22.59
$21.29	$21.93	$22 59
$21.29	$21.93	$22 59
$16.69	$17 19	$17.71
$17.37	$17.89	$18.43
$2129	$21,93	$22 59
44
Sept 1/07 $18,93 $20 69 $20 47 $19.59 $18.24 $18.86 $19.51 $20. D $22 44 $18.24 $18.86 $19.51 .$20.10 $22.44 .$18.82 $18.68 $19.33 $18.93 .$19.05 $18.64 $18 35 $19.33 $18.93 $18.94 $20.23 $18.64 $19.16 $19.59 $18.36 $18.67 $18.24 $18.79 $22.44 $22.44 $2 1.07 $19.04 $19.33 $18.24 $18.93 $20 45 $23.27 $23.27 $23.27 $18.24 $18.98 $23.27
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
SENORITY LIST
EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE	SENIORITY	EMPLOYEE
NUMBER	FULL NAME	DATE	PHONE
1	LOWERY, HARRY
5	AUSTIN, DAVID
13	HEBERT, JEAN C
15	BEAUDRY, XAVIER
17	CORMIER, NORMAN E
20 LABRECQUE, JACQUES N
22	LANDRY, GEORGE E
23	BEAUDRY, RONALD W
24	MIRAULT, NOELJ
26	FLETCHER, RANDY C
27	MCALLISTER,JAMES L
28	GERVAIS, RHEAL J
30	MOORES, RALPH
31	AUBERTIN, GERALD
34	MARTEL, GERALD
39 THIBEAULT, RICHARDV
42	HALL, LAWRENCEA
43	NELMES, KENNETH J
44	BADGEROW, OMER P
45	FRABONI, THOMAS A
46	ARNOLD, BRIAN E
49	MARCOUX, HARVEY 0
.50	COLLIN, ADELARD
57	ST,PIERRE, GERALD J
77	HUNDA, JOHN G
86	PICHE, ROBERT J
87	GOLDEN, HAROLD A
91	BARNES, DONALD M
93 GERRARD, MAURICE 97	RICHER, ROLANDB
114	RODRIGUE, BENOIT
01/06/63 (705)869-4759 01/06/63 (705)869-1857 07/01/64 (705)869-3580 11/02/67 (705)869-4054 31/05/67 (705)869-4265 02/02/68 (705)869-1288 21/08/68 (705)869-4178 20/09/68 (705)869-2970 04/11/68 (705)869-2823 06/01/70 (705)844-2656 14/09/70 (705)377-5349 07/10/70 (705)865-2925 18/12/70 (705)869-6670 18/03/71 (705)869-2442 18/01/72 (705)256-7218 15/01/73 (705)869-4943 19/01/73 (705)869-3424 22/01/73 (705)869-3348 07/02/73 (705)869-2067 19/02/73 (705)869-5397 01/03/73 (705)869-2951 10/04/73 (705)869-2142 10/04/73 (705)869-1186 16/04/73 (705)869-2409 03/05/73 (000)000-0000 18/06/73 (705)869-0137 19/06/73 (705)285-4348 22/06/73 (705)869-5141 29/06/73 (705)869-1313 10/07/73 (705)869-2877 31/07/73 (705)869-4657
45
115 LEGROW, RICHARDJ 125 SIMONDS, PHILLIP A 128 FAIRBAIRN,LLOYD L
138	MADIGAN, PERCY S
139	NEWTON, ERIC R 144 DELISLE, ALBERT J 165 CAMPBELL, KEN 159 MASSICOTTE, PAUL 170 GILLIS, DONALDN 174 BEAUDRY, AIME G 191 MCDONALD, DOUG C 198 UVELY, RONNIE T
205 GOODCHILD, REMMIE W 213 RANGER, HECTOR 219 LEGROW, KEN J 226 BOUILLON, MARCEL
231	BUOTT, FRANCIS
232	DUPUIS, DONALD
247	LAPIERRE, REAL
243	BOOMHOWER, CALVIN W
244	THAXTER, FREDL 258 GIBSON, RONALD A
248	SIMON, JEAN
260 COOLEY, JAMES G 301 THIBODEAU, MAURICE 303 OLINSKY, GEORGE 305 MARTIN, ROBERT J 314 MANDAMIN, IVANV
329	MARCOUX, RONALD
330	GRENIER, EUGENE 332 GAGNE, JOHN L 340 NOBLE, WILLIAM A 349 SOUCY, HENRY 355 KARVONEN, JOHN 353 VAREY, ROBERT B 351 MANDAMIN, BASILA
46
08/08/73
04/09/73
04/09/73
01/10/73
02/10/73
07/01/74
25/02/74
08/03/74
18/03/74
02/04/74
24/06/74
11/07/74
19/08/74
16/09/74
07/04/75
07/04/75
21/04/75
21/04/75
06/05/75
12/05/75
12/05/75
12/05/75
20/05/75
20/05/75
21/07/75
05/08/75
05/08/75
18/08/75
02/09/75
02/09/75
02/09/75
02/09/75
22/09/75
22/10/75
24/10/75
27/10/75
(705)869-3160
(705)869-4336
(705)869-4434
(705)869-4104
(705)869-2557
(705)869-3220
(705)869-1616
(705)865-3257
(705)869-4375
(705) 869-6640
(705)869-4787
(705)866-2489
(705)869-2292
(705)495-1961
(705)869-6135
(705)869-2200
(705)670-0611
(705)000-0000
(705)869-4011
(705)869-4923
(705)869-3709
(705)869-4290
(705)692-5325
(705)869-1085
(705)869-2659
(705)869-1239
(705)869-4581
(705)859-2365
(705)000-0000
(705)844-2728
(705)869-4617
(705)869-1074
(705)869-4915
(705)869-2769
(705)368-3039
(705)859-3097
358 SOUCY, LOUIS P
361 ST. MICHEL, KEN J
375 BEBAMIKAWE, CLIFFORD C
378	RECOLLET, LLOYD P
379	GREEN, FLOYD H 385 LAMOTHE.OVILA 388 LEVERT, JAMES H 399 JOYCE, ROBERTR 404 TOTMAN, CHARLES E 406 MCGREGOR, DONALD 411 JORDAN, JAMES S 419 ASSINIWE, NORMAN 431 EADE, RICHARDS 446 SIMON, EDWARD R 448 FERRIS, DONALDA 451 OWL, MERVYN W
401 ST. GEORGES, MICHEL P 467 LAMOTHE, ROBERT L 481 MCDONALD, ROGER P 225 LAMOTHE, JEAN P 485 GAUTHIER, JACQUES 494 FOX, MICHAEL 496 VINCENT, PAUL 502 EDWARDS, STANLEY J 516 RIVERS, WILFRED N 521 MASSICOTTE, ROGER 383 DUMONT, CLAUDE J 527 KAISER, KLAUS D 537 RIVET, RAY 559 MASSICOTTE, ALLEN D 562 ELLIS, ROBERT W 574 LEMIEUX, RONALD A 582 LEMIEUX, MICHEL 585 BOUCHARD, ARTHUR A 193 TESSIER, NORMAN L 600 LINGENFELTER, WILLIAM R
47
03/1 1/75 (705)368-3347 05/11/75 (705)869-2084 23/02/76 (705)859-2386 23/02/76 (705)000-0000 23/02/76 (705)869-2451 01/03/76 (705)848-5949 08/03/76 (000)000-0000 10/03/76 (705)869-1451 15/03/76 (705)869-4431 15/03/76 (705)285-4289 15/03/76 (705)869-1548 15/03/76 (705)859-3976 23/03/76 (705)869-3050 23/03/76 (705)368-3151 26/04/76 (705)869-3485 26/04/76 (705)865-2516 29/04/76 (705)692-3945 13/05/76 (705)869-2736 07/06/76 (705)869-4755 10/06/76 (705)869-2424 15/06/76 (705)869-1789 21/06/76 (705)859-3258 21/06/76 (705)859-3258 28/06/76 (705)869-1880 19/07/76 (705)865-3025 29/07/76 (705)865-2069 27/01/77 (705)869-1806 17/02/77 (705)377-4043 21/02/77 (705)368-2246 21/02/77 (705)869-1750 21/02/77 (705)869-1767 28/02/77 (705)869-1595 08/03/77 (705)869-4492 08/03/77 (705)865-3154 10/03/77 (705)869-2568 25/04/77 (705)866-0223
601 CLOW, ERNESTC 608 LAGRANDEUR,ANDRE 611 DAOUST, ALBENNIE 613 LALONDE, MICHEL 615 DAOUST, MAXIME A 619 ELLIOTT, HOWARD J 621 THIBEAULT, CLAUDE V 623 DELISLE, MAURICE J 625 NEWSTEAD, ROBERTA
628	STRAIN, JAMES M
629	MASSICOTTE, PETERJ 640 DOUGON, BRIAN P
650	VOLPEL, MARTIN G
651	MCALLISTER, JACK A 661 MACDONALD, ROYW 664 SALO, ROBERT D 666 PLEUNA, LARRY K 679 MARTELL, PHILLIP E 681 BOUCHARD, ERNESTI 685 MULDOON, BRIANA 695 EVELEGH, BRIAN D
699	VANALSTINE, HARRYW
700	VINCENT, JEAN C 709 MINOR, CLAUDE J
731	LAROCQUE, ROLAND
732	JEANVEAU, PATRICKA 739 SAVARD, PAULA
744 VONDETTE, MICHAEL J
747	CHAMPAIGNE, JERRY
748	RECOLLET, RONALDJ 728 TOULOUSE, MELVIN P 751 MARTEL, DON M
757 MCIVOR, DAVIDA 759 TOULOUSE, DONALD G
768	FAIRBAIRN,BRUCE E
769	KOZACHANKO, MIKE R
09/05/77 (705)869-4721 27/06/77 (705)869-2059 03/08/77 (705)869-1871 08/08/77 (705)869-6882 15/08/77 (705)869-4491 18/08/77 (705)869-2923 24/08/77 (705)869-3704 29/08/77 (705)865-2446 06/09/77 (705)6922-5133 06/09/77 (705)869-4273 12/09/77 (705)869-4353 13/09/77 (705)869-2166 11/10/77 (705)692-9186 11/10/77 (705)865-2980 27/10/77 (705)869-4648 02/11/77 (705)869-6165 07/11/77 (705) 869-2352 20/02/78 (705)865-2368 23/02/78 (705)869-3036 10/04/78 (705)869-1618 30/05/78 (705)560-3354 02/06/78 (705)869-2007 05/06/78 (705)869-1017 29/06/78 (705)855-8131 06/11/78 (705)855-3871 10/11/78 (705)694-3372 25/04/79 (705)694-0000 23/05/79 (705)869-4779 04/06/79 (705)682-2961 06/06/79 (705)859-2788 11/06/79 (705)865-3484 11/06/79 (705)869-6951 04/09/79 (705)368-3108 17/09/79 (705)865-2984 15/10/79 (705)869-5612 15/10/79 (705)869-3786
48
770	JEFFERIES, DALE E
779	COURTEMANCHE, DONALDW
780	LELIEVRE, DENIST
781	GIGNAC, RONALD I 786 SHANK, ALCIDE A
789	BENNISON, KEN
790	GUINDON.TED C
791	FAIRBURN, DAVID N
792	BADGEROW, PATRICK E
793	FOUCAULT, DONALD F 597 LEESON, RONALDR 724 CHARETTE, VERNON
802	FAIRBAIRN, HOWARDW
803	BOUCHARD, ROBERT H
811	LAROCQUE, LEON
812	LALONDE, REALA
813	ALSTON, LORNE W
814	DUCHARME, RICHARD A 816 JOYCE, GREG
818 BRIMICOMBE, PAULA
820	BOUILLON, CLAUDE A
821	VAREY, MARK A
822	VAREY, MICHAEL C
823	VALLEE, KEVIN R 826 ROBINSON, JAMES G
828	RANCOURT, RAYMOND J
829	STONGE, GERARDE
838	LEBLANC, GAETAN A
839	PAQUETTE, GERALD G 842 GAUTHIER, IVANJ
844	KITLER, DAVIDD
845	JEFFERIES, RANDY J 848 BASKIN, JAMES
851 FENSOM, JOSEPH T
853	MOODY, BRADLEY
854	GAGNE, DONALD
15/10/79 (705)869-5511 04/01/80 (705)869-4480 07/01/80 (705)869-0245 28/01/80 (705)869-2572 13/02/80 (705)866-0460 20/02/80 (705)692-3102 21/02/80 (705)869-5083 25/02/80 (705)869-5989 03/03/80 (705)869-5921 04/03/80 (705)869-4697 09/06/80 (705)869-4099 16/06/80 (705)865-3323 04/08/80 (705)869-1399 05/08/80 (705)865-3085 10/09/80 (705)855-9812 10/09/80 (705)869-4032 15/09/80 (705)368-2057 15/09/80 (705)869-4026 20/10/80 (705)869-4385 18/11/80 (705)869-4091 02/02/81 (705)869-2150 05/02/81 (705)368-3890 05/02/81 (705)368-3667 05/02/81 (705) 869-5029 18/02/81 (000)368-3716 11/05/81 (705)869-3798 19/05/81 (705)983-2328 06/07/81 (705)869-4071 15/07/81 (705)000-0000 30/03/83 (705)866-2425 30/03/83 (705)869-5222 30/03/83 (705)692-3200 16/05/83 (705)693-3058 25/05/83 (705)869-4427 06/02/84 (705)869-3475 06/02/84 (705)869-3019
49
857	MOROZ, WILLIAM M
858	LEONARD, ROY F
861	ANTONIO, DAVID R
862	ROBIDOUX, ROBBIE M 865 GAUDREAU, RICHARD F
867	LAJEEUNESSE, RONALD R
868	PACCITTO, FRANCO
870	CAMPBELL, JAMES H
871	LUOPA, RICHARDJ
873	LACASSE, DANIELP
874	AUSTIN, JOEL D
875	LEBLANC, DENIS A
876	MONTGOMERY, PAUL B
877	FENTON, DANG
878	DILLABOUGH, WILLIAM E 886 LEVERT, FRANCIS M
896	VAN ALSTINE, KEVINJ
897	CLEMENT, TODD E
901	CATLING, WAYNE E
902	ROY, MARC A
905 DESFORGES, JEAN 904 MICHON, LIONEL P 907 OLDING, VICTOR J
910	GILLESPIE, VICTOR P
911	LAROCQUE.RHEAL L 914 STINSON, GARRY A 924 BOLDUC, GEORGE G 947 BOLDUC, JOHNW 949 MOFFAT,MARLIN C
982	ODERKIRK, JOHN
983	DIEBEL, PETER J
989	ROY, GASTON
990	MASSICOTTE, RAYMEND P
992	MOFFATT, MATTHEW D
993	WASYLIW, ALLAN W 996 SAWYER, KYLE F
13/02/84 (705)869-4864 13/02/84 (705)869-5720 14/02/84 (705)869-3682 27/02/84 (705)869-1582 19/03/84 (705)869-4467 20/03/84 (705)869-3306 17/04/84 (705)869-4484 17/04/84 (705)869-1118 17/04/84 (705)866-0121 18/04/84 (705)869-1468 18/04/84 (705)869-1908 23/04/84 (705)869-4654 23/04/84 (705)869-2539 23/04/84 (705)368-3688 23/04/84 (705)869-1047 18/06/84 (705)869-3249 20/07/84 (705)869-1155 23/07/84 (705)869-4360 15/10/84 (705)869-1538 22/10/84 (705)869-5349 16/11/84 (705)869-2662 19/11/84 (705)869-1636 20/11/84 (705)865-2346 27/11/84 (705)869-4098 27/11/84 (705)869-4259 15/04/85 (705)869-2678 29/05/85 (705)869-4486 03/07/85 (705)869-6528 08/04/86 (705)865-3423 08/09/86 (705)869-3013 08/09/86 (705)869-5149 08/09/86 (705)869-4051 08/09/86 (705)869-2436 09/09/86 (705)865-2157 24/09/86 (705)869-5451 29/09/86 (705)869-5720
50
§98 HALES, ROBERT J 997 SCHEEL, ROGER C
1034	DAM.TRINGHIA
1035	CALDWELL, WILLIAM J
1030	MASSICOTTE, DAN 1027 O'BRIEN, SHAWN 1029 HEARN, TIM
1031	SPRY, ALLAN
1036	DELISLE, PAUL
1039	BOND, FRED J
1040	RYDALL, STEVEN 1038 SWATKO, LEAHA
1041	BORTON, WILLIAM D
1042	RITCHIE, GERALD O
1048	TESSIER, TODD N
1049	BEAULIEU, LEONARD 1094 MARTEL, LARRY L
1097	SARKIOJA, MARKKUS R
1098	GAMMIE, MURRAY D
1099	PERRON, PAUL J
1102	NADEAU, MARC J
1103	PROCTOR, ROBERT J
1104	GINGRAS, TODD D 1119 CLARIDGE, KENTR 1140 PEARSON, GEORGE W
1149	SAIKKONEN.TIMC
1150	ANDREWS, JANET L 1153 GELINEAU, ANDRE R 1159 ERTLER, EUGENE
1180	ROBITAILLE, DANR
1181	DAWES, LARRY
1182	LAROCHELLE, DENIS R
1184	EDWARDS, VINCENT J
1185	MCGRAW, FREDRICK W
1187	OAKE, WILFRED
1188	MOFFATT, MURRAY R
12/03/87 (705)869-6612 16/03/87 (705)869-1690 03/09/87 (705)869-3855 03/09/87 (705)865-3035 04/09/87 (705)869-4505 08/09/87 (705)671-2346 08/09/87 (705)869-5723 08/09/87 (705)368-3134 10/09/87 (705)869-6075 10/09/87 (705)368-2328 10/09/87 (705)869-5634 14/09/87 (705)866-0345 14/09/87 (705)869-2880 10/12/87 (705)865-3465 18/03/88 (705)869-0120 21/03/88 (705)869-2270 28/10/88 (705)869-1382 14/11/88 (705)866-2217 14/11/88 (705)368-3814 14/11/88 (705)869-2094 28/11/88 (705)869-5443 28/1 1/88 (705)869-4258 28/11/88 (705)869-5493 08/05/89 (705)866-0344 06/09/89 (705)869-5669 13/10/89 (705)866-0275 13/10/89 (705)865-2039 17/10/89 (705)869-1435 19/03/90 (705)869-3893 03/10/90 (705)844-1242 14/09/92. (705). 675-3800 16/11/92 (705) 844-2856 15/02/93 (705)869-4627 15/02/93 (705)368-3686 25/02/93 (705)869-5836 25/02/93 (705)865-2343
51
1189	TESSIER, ALLAN
1190	THIBEAULT, GERALD R
1191	ANDERSON, GREG
1192	PERRON, JR., PAUL
1193	BROWN, JAMES
1194	BENTLEY, SHELDON 1207 PATRY, PAULA
1233 MITROFF, TYLER D
1235	MORNEAU, ROBERTJ
1236	ELLIS, SCOTT
1237	DANDENAULT, DENIS J
1238	WIKIRUK, BRUCE E
1239	CHARETTE,JR., VERNON M
1240	KUTSCHKE, BRADLEYW
1241	MATZ, TRAVIS D
1242	DAVIAU, CHARLES J
1243	FALKINGHAM, JARRET L
1244	WITHERS, ALLAN W
1245	GAGNE, ROBERT F
1246	MAAHS, SHERRY L
1247	LAPIERRE, JEFF
1248	BRUNNE, DAVID D
1250	JEFFREY, GARY P
1251	BEAUMIER, MARCELJ
1252	LEMIEUX, MICHELC
1253	JANTTI, RONALDO
1254	FOLLSTER, CURTIS D
1273	MCNAMARA, SHAWN P
1274	STABLES,JENNIFERS
1275	MARTEL, ROBBY M
1276	GERRIOR, BRADLEYS
1277	FLETCHER, DANIEL R
1278	SARKIOJA, HENRYA
1279	LEMIEUX, PATRICK C
1280	DUMAS, BENEDICT A
1281	STILLAR, WESLEY J
26/02/93
26/02/93
03/03/93
03/03/93
03/03/93
16/03/93
07/06/93
04/10/93
05/10/93
05/10/93
14/10/93
14/10/93
14/10/93
31/01/94
31/01/94
31/01/94
31/01/94
31/04/94
31/01/94
31/01/94
31/01/94
31/01/94
07/02/94
07/02/94
08/02/94
18/02//94
03/03/94
21/10/94
23/02/95
23/02/95
23/02/95
23/02/95
23/02/95
23/02/95
23/02/95
06/03/95
52
(705)869-6159
(705)869-1873
(705)869-1168
(705)869-2094
(705)869-6920
(705) 869-3083
(705)866-0343
(705)869-2199
(705)855-7705
(705)865-3351
(705)674-0825
(705)869-3339
(705)865-2621
(705) 865-3468
(705)869-3117
(705)869-6096
(705)869-6771
(705)869-6778
(705)285-4396
(705)865-3481
(705)869-4011
(705)869-6200
(705)844-2714
(705) 869-6703
(705)692-0845
(705)869-4186
(705)844-2729
(705)969-4257
(705)869-5921
(705) 869-3295
(705)869-3067
(705)865-2884
(705)866-1507
(705)560-6200
(705)869-5774
(705)692-1030
SCHEDULE“D”
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
I	.Weekend Maintenance Schedule 2,Filling Job Postings re Article 12:07 3 .Layoff & Recall after Layoff
4.	Floating Holidays 5 Coveralls
6.Disputed Workers’ Compensation Board Claims 7 .Weekly Indemnity.
5.	Meals
9,	EJectrical Maintenance.
10.	Posted Back-Up Positions.
II	.Climatic Controls.
12.Hours of Work.
13.Overtime Distribution 14.Overtime Welding
15.	Lumber Graders
16.	Management of the Labour Pool
17.	Management of Technological Change
53
E.B. EDD	REST PRODUCTS I ,TD
URN CEP SAWMII.I OI> 1R : 10
AND
CAN4 kN PERWOFK UNION \ TS OCAI.31 11 C	(
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
WEEKEND MAINTENANCE HEDULE
Permanent Vacancies:
1 )When permanent vacancies occur in the regular work force the maintenance employees working the weekend schedule will be allowed to bid on those vacancies (as per Article 12:07).
Pay Cheques:
2)	Employees working the weekend maintenance schedule will be allowed to pick-uptheir pay cheques earlier on Thursday, when available.
Vacation, Sickness or Accidents:
3)	Weekend maintenance employees will be used to supplement regular crews for vacations, sickness or accidents only when necessary.
Statutory Holiday Pay:
4)	Weekend maintenance employees required to work on a Statutory Holiday could be paid the following ways:
a)	Receive time and one-half only for time worked and bank eight hours or one day. it is to be understood that bank time taken must be taken at a time agreeable to both parties and that whole days must be used.
b)	Receive pay for day worked as per Article 7:03.
5)	Weekend maintenance schedule employee’s vacations will be scheduled by weekends.
Work Schedule:
6)	It is to he understood that the hours of work would be as
54
follows:
a)	Friday, 7 a.m. to 3:30 p.m„ mealtime excepted.
Saturday, 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m., mealtime excepted first 8 hours. Sunday, 7 a.m, to 7:30p,m., mealtime excepted first 8 hours.
b)	Saturday, 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m., mealtime excepted first 8 hours,LSunday, 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m., mealtime excepted first 8 hours.Monday, 7 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., mealtime excepted. It is further understood that the last 4 hours of work on Saturday and Sunday will include a 20 minute paid lunch period.
7)The Company and the Union accept the principal that the intent of the maintenance seven day schedule is to eliminate outside contractors doing normal maintenance work. The Company will strive to uphold this principal during the life of this agreement.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
E BOND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION ■ LOCAL 31 -X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - C.E.P.
55
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
FILLING JOB POSTINGS RE ARTICLE 12:07
It is agreed that for permanent vacancies,the successful, senior employee of the applicants to fill the vacancy, as per existing clause 12:01, will be given preference to anyjunior employee provided that:
(a)	He had occupied that job previously and is qualified to meet the job requirements, or,
(b)	Should training be required to meet thejob requirement, he will be allowed the necessary time of training, or
(c)	He has qualified to do the job
(1)	There will be no limitation on upward mobility.
(2)	Lateral or down bids with reference tojob postings will be limited to one successful bid per six month period,
When an employee bids down, prior to acceptance of the bid, discussions with the Union may take place to reflect theeffect on the operation.
If the effect of lateral or down bidding seriously affects the operation of the plant, the Company and the local Union agree to meet immediately and solve the problem.
The local Union committee will be advised of the successful applicant prior to placing the employee on thejob.
56
A junior qualified employee may fill a vacancy temporarily while another employee is being trained.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
E BOND
PRESIDENT- COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31-X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE- C.E.P
57
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNIONS AND ITS LOCAL 31
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
LAYOFF & RECALL AFTER LAYOFF
(1)	People retain the right to their last successful bid uponjob classification during a layoff situation. This becomes their ‘‘regular’’ classification.
(2)	While awaiting return to their “regular” job classification they may bid, and if successful fill another vacancy. When a position in their “regular” classification comes open, due to recall and their seniority allows it, they will be offered the one time chance to return. If rejected, their new classification becomes their “regular” classification.
(3)	Anyjob classification which requires an additional employee will not be posted as a vacancy unless there are no people remaining that have been displaced from their “regular” classification due to layoff. If there are no people as above, the job classification will then be posted as a permanent vacancy.
(4)	Should an employee leave a job he had successfully bid upon, to return to his “regular” classification, that job will be posted as a vacancy unless people in that classification are also available due to layoff.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
F. BOND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION ■ LOCAL 31-X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - C.E.P.
58
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: FLOATING HOLIDAYS
In attempt to distribute floating holidays as fairly and as numerous at one time as possible, the following has been agreed to:
On any given day, floaters will be allocated by Company wide seniority but within operational areas. All requests must he on the Personnel Supervisor’s desk at least three (3) days previous to the requested floater.
Floaters will be allocated in the operational areas as follows:
	3 Shift Operation	2 Shift Operation
Woodyard, Processor & Small Log Mill	Six in total-one per shift, two off after 4 pin-8 am	Four in total-one per shift, two off after 4 pm- 8 ani
Planer	Three in total one per shift	Two in total one per shift
Debarker & Large Log Mill	Two in total one per shift	Two in total one per shift
Chip & Hog Fuel Drivers	One	One
Electricians	One	One
Millwrights.* Men	Two plant wide	Two plant wide
Mechanics	One	One
59
Filers	One	One
TOTAL	Seventeen	Fourteen
This has been agreed to in the best interest of all personnel involved, however, it in no way is intended to change the existing Labour Agreement.
The cooperation of all employees and supervisory personnel is requested to make this system work.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
F. BOND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31 -X
R, LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - C.E.P.
60
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
COVERALLS
The Company will supply tradesmen, that is, carpenters, millwrights, mechanics, electricians, filers and utility operators with suitable coveralls as made available by a supply service of Company choice. Fifty percent (50%)of the cost of the laundering will be borne by the employee.
Each employee would have a set of five (5) coveralls for his personal use. He would be issued a clean pair of coveralls each week upon return of this soiled pair. The Company will pay the full cost of laundering one (1) pair of coveralls.
The individual employee will be responsible for loss or damage to the coveralls for normal wear and tear; however, coveralls damaged by unforeseen circumstances beyond his control will be replaced by the Company after inspection.
insulated coveralls will be supplied by the Company when required, the cost of laundering will be paid by the Company.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
F. BOND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL 31 -X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE- C.E.P.
61
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
DISPUTED W.C.B. CLAIMS
It is understood that when delays in excess of fifteen (15) days occur in Workers’ Compensation payments due to a dispute, the Company is prepared to advance an employee two weeks benefits to be repaid when payment is received. It is understood that the two weeks payment will be equivalent to two weeks of Weekly Indemnity benefits. It is further understood that every two weeks after the first advance a further two week advance will be issued until such time as the dispute is settled and the compensation payments begin.
If a Workers’ Compensation Board claim is denied, repayment to the Company will be made when the employee receives payment through Weekly Indemnity.
The fifteen (15) day period will begin from the last day worked.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
F. BOND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 3 l-X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - C.E.P.
62
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
WEEKLY INDEMNITY
It is understood and agreed that any employee placed under a quarantine due to either contact with or suffering from a communicable disease will be covered by Weekly Indemnity. It is also understood and agreed that any employee who is off work for treatment due to alcohol or drug addiction and is under the care of a licensed physician will be covered under Weekly Indemnity. The normal three day waiting period will apply.
DATED
K. P1CKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
F. BOND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31 -X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - C.E.P.
63
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
MEALS
Arrangements have been made with a restaurant to deliver meals to the Sawmill. The meals will be in a styrofoam container and transported in a thermal box.
The Company agrees that, unless notified the previous day, an employee who is required to work a minimum of two (2) hours beyond his regular hours will be provided with a meal at the Company’s expense. After the provision of the first meal, under this Section a hot meal will be provided every four (4)hours thereafter at the Company’s expense.
Employees who agree to work for at least twelve (12) hours in a day (excluding weekend scheduled maintenance crews) will be provided with a meal after eight (8) hours. If an employee continues to work after twelve (12) hours, he will receive a meal every four (4)hours after the first one.
The Company will make arrangements to have a voucher available for a meal on the same day that it was earned for those employees so requesting.
The Company will provide refrigerators and microwave ovens in the following recognized lunch rooms:
1)	Large Log Mill 4) Electrical Shop 7) Garage
2)	Filing Room	5) Small Log Mill
3)	Planer	6) Processor Area West
64
Note: Processor Area East lunch room will be in the Small
Log area.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
F. BOND
PRESIDENT- COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31 -X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE- C.E.P.
65
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
ELECTRICAL MAINTENANCE
It is the policy of the Company to have no one but electricians perform maintenance work on electrical equipment.
Only trained electrical personnel are permitted to reset inside an electrical panel.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
F. BOND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 3I-X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - C.E.P.
66
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
POSTED BACK-UP POSITIONS
The Company agrees, for employees who have accepted agreed to posted back-up positions, when a perinanent vacancy occurs in that position, the senior back-up employee will be promoted to fill the vacancy.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
EBOND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY ANI) PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31-X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - C.E.P.
67
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
CLIMATIC CONTROLS
The Company agrees to install “Climatic Controls” in the following vehicles: #814,817, 821,832 839 and 845 by June 1, 1989. Furthermore, the Company agrees that new mobile equipment purchased in the future, where feasible, will be equipped with “climatic controls”.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
F. BOND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31-X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - C.E.P.
68
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
HOURS OF WORK
The following is the Company’s interpretation of 11:05, 3rd paragraph:
An employee called out for overtime work will be paid a minimum of four hours at time and one-half or eight hours at time and one-half for employees working more than four hours.
An employee previously requested to work overtime before the start of his regular day or shift will be paid time and one-half for hours worked prior to the commencement of his regular day or shift.
DATED
K. PiCKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
F. BOND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31 -X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - C.E.P.
69
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION & ITS LOCAL 31-X
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION
A.Distribution
i)	Overtime will be offered to the most senior employee with the least number of overtime hours worked within the classification requiting overtime.
ii)	Equalization of overtime as described in i) above shall be effected daily, shall be based on time actually agreed to work (not on the basis of time earned or offered) and shall occur amongst employees in the classification in which the need for overtime arises.
iii)	Where the Company has avoided overtime by assigning labourers to meet its need and an insufficient number of labourers are available thereby necessitating an overtime requirement, the overtime in such circumstances shall be offered to employees in the classification with the least number of overtime hours worked on the basis of paragraph A. i) above.
B .Classifications
i)	As used throughout this document a classification means the job encompassed by the specific occupation code and rate established therefore as set out in Schedule “B” to the collective agreement and such additional classifications as may mutually agreed to by the Union and the Company.
ii)	Forthe purpose of this document, an employee’s classification is the classification to which he has been scheduled to work for the week.
70
iii)For the purpose of this document an employee who has been transferred at the Company’s request to another classification for the majority of his workday, shall be considered to fall within the classification to which he was transferred and not the classification from which he was transferred for the purpose of overtime distribution as provided for above.
C.Overtime Lists
i)	Where the Company is unable to procure the performance of overtime through A. and B., overtime shall be distributed in accordance with a sign up list posted weekly on the bulletin boards of each department lunch room for employees to sign. It is further understood that these overtime lists are for the sole purpose of determining availability of employees for weekend overtime and for providing the equalization of such overtime.
ii)	The sign up list shall be posted each Monday at noon and removed Thursday at 7:00 a.m.
iii)	The Company will provide each supervisor with a list of employees to whom overtime shall be offered to cover vacancies arising out of such weekend overtime.
All conditions not covered by this Letter of Understanding re: “Intent of Overtime Distribution” will be subject to the Collective Agreement.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
E BOND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31 -X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - C.E.P.
71
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION AND IT’S LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: OVERTIME WELDING
It is agreed and understood that when there is non-structural, ie. straight flat welding required such that contractors would otherwise be utilized (asper article 3:01 (hi and 3:02 (b) then our employees would be eligible for that work under the following conditions:
To be eligible,
1 .the position(s) will be posted as re: article 12:07
2.	the employee must not be on their regular shift
3.	the overtime would have to have been offered first to people within the following groups, provided that they are also not on their regular shift:
I .tradespeople 2.apprentice tradespeople
Based on anticipated requirements, this group will be limited to a maximum of five (5) people - distribution of overtime welding within this group will be based on equalization.
While the employee is performing welding, hc/she will be paid
The employee will receive the reasonable on site training necessary to perform these duties.
72
Whm an apprentice tradesnersnn is performing welding, they will receive the higher welding rate for unscheduled overtime.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
E BOND
PRESIDENT- COMMUNICATIONS.ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31-X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE- C.E.P.
73
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: LUMBER GRADERS
For E.B. Eddy to retain permission by C.L.A. to use their license, grading practices must be in compliance to their rales and guidelines - loss of the license would eliminate opportunities to market our lumber.
The grader classification cannot be compromised for any reason and in order to ensure consistent quality and customer satisfaction this letter of understanding states:
Terms agreed upon in this letter pertain to graders only and are not applicable in any way to any other operation.
For the purpose of this letter, C.L.A. license relates to Class A & B without distinction.
1 .Only licensed graders will hold a permanent hid: other openings will be filled from the recognized “Hack-Up” bid by seniority. Licensed graders will have priority in Grading; as of the date of this letter of understanding. The licensed grader rate will only he paid after a C.L.A. license is obtained and training complete.
2,a)In a lay off situation when more senior (non graders) employees would be laid off, senior non-bid licensed graders will be considered to fill grader requirements (by way of a temporary bid) providing such individuals can fulfill the training requirements in the agreed-to designated time; training to be conducted as stated below. (3)
b)When a lay off is deemed to be longer than 10 weeks (equal to the training period), the more senior non graders who would
74
‘otherwisebe laid off will be given an opportunityto train and work as a grader for the duration of that lay oil (similar to temporary bid in 2 a), above).
3.	Training for new grader bids will be:
week one - study C.L. A. gradingrules regulations with minimal on-line training
week two - same as week one with increased time on the table
week three - on table most of time as extra grader to view procedures and practice rules
week four - week long C.L.A. training with the C.L.A. test
C.L.A. Test: If unsuccessful, repeat week one through four prior to C.L. A. testing and if unsuccessful again then the person is returned to previous job and may apply for the grader bid only upon the next posting.
4.	“B” licensed graders will be required to write each C.L.A. test until the “A” license is obtained. A permanent bid grader within the classification will remain on the table until after 2 consecutive failures of the C.L. A. tests - training will be supplied to ensure individuals are properly prepared.
5.	A QUALITY/GRADING COMMITTEE will be established to manage the training program and any quality concerns ongoing;the class “A” license recognition will be a high priority project.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
F. BOND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERSUNION - LOCAL 31 -X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE- C.E.P.
75
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION & ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
MANAGEMENT OF THE LABOUR POOL
Once the manning schedule has been completed Wednesday and all planned vacancies of a week's duration forthe following week have been filled, five additional employees will be assigned into the schedule based on the following terms and conditions:
i)	two employees will be assigned on days, two employees will he assigned on afternoons and one additional employee will be assigned on graveyard,
ii)	these employees will be available for work assignments plantwide,
iii)	if fewer than five (5) employees are left in the labour pool after the planned vacancies have been filled, there is no requirement to hire on additional employees.
ivjthis understanding does not apply to students
Once the following steps have been completed and there arc still employees in the labour pool who have not been scheduled, they will he given their notice of layoff as per Article 12:03.
DATED
K. PICKRELL
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
F. ROND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS. ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL SI-X
U. LAM ARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - C E.P.
76
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERSUNION & ITS LOCAL 31-X
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: MANAGEMENT OF TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
The Company and the Union recognize that technological change, while necessary to the industry, may have an impact on manpowerand employmentlevels. In order to address these concerns, the parties agree to the following guidelines in addressing technological changes.
Technologicalchange means the introduction by the employer in its operations of equipment different in nature, type or quantity from that previously utilized by the employee, a change in the operation related to the introduction of that equipment or a modification of existing equipment currently in use in the workplace which affects one or more employees.
Any disagreement as to whether or not a manpower reduction is attributable to technological change shall be subject to the grievance procedure. It is understood that any grievances of this nature will be dealt with in the same fashion as adischarge case.
DATED
K. PICKRELL,
MANAGER, NAIRN CENTRE LUMBER DIVISION
F, BOND
PRESIDENT - COMMUNICATIONS .ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION - LOCAL 31-X
R. LAMARCHE
NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE - C.E.P.
77
Signed this 20th day of September 1995. in Sudbury, Ontario
rnuPAMv
UJIUJIA
FQB THE UNION
EB Eddy Forest Products Ltd Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations
Manager, NairnCentre lumber Division
Communications, Energy and Paperworker^HJnion end lt^ Lo<
riLarfiarche National Representative
B. Robinson Vice President - Human Resources


F. Bond President- Local 31-X
M McCulldch
C^dL...0
A.Encil
D. Lacasse
A. Heritage Ministry of Labour
78
SCHEDULE “E!
GENERAL INFORMATION PLAN EFFECTIVE DATE
The benefits described in this booklet are in effect as of September 1, 1995.
ELIGIBILITY
All full-time hourly employees who are members of the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union and its Local 31-X are eligible to participate in this plan.
If you have dependents you may insure them as well. Your spouse is eligible and your unmarried children (including adopted, foster and stepchildren). Dependent children are insured up to age 21.
Any mentally retarded or physically handicapped children may remain insured past the maximum age provided the child is incapable of self-sustaining employment and is wholly dependent on you for support and maintenance.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVERAGE
You become eligible for Life Insurance after having completed 30 work days of continuous active full-time employment and Long Term Disability immediately upon becoming insured for Weekly Indemnity benefits.
Your Weekly Indemnity coverage, and that of your dependents, is effective after having completed 30 work days of continuous active full-time employment. Your Dental coverage, as well as your dependents ’, is effective cn the date you complete a waiting period of 90 work days or service for full-time employment.
79
Your Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care plans, and that of your dependents, is effective on the first day of the fourth month following the date you were employed for full time and full pay.
if you are actively insured for personal coverage and later acquire a dependent, you may enroll your dependent in the Health plan by notifying the Personnel Office.
If you are not actively at work on the date your Weekly Indemnity, Medical, Dental or Vision coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on your return to work for full time and full pay.
If one of your dependents is hospitalized on the date Medical coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on the day following discharge from the hospital.
HOW TO OBTAIN THE INSURANCE
To obtain the insurance described in this booklet, you should complete and sign all necessary application cards. No medical examination is required for you if you apply forthe insurance within the times stated.
IF YOU LEAVE OUR EMPLOY
Your group insurance will terminate if you leave our employ. You have the right to change your Life Insurance to an individual policy as available by the carrier.
LIFE INSURANCE DEATH BENEFIT
In the event on your death from any cause, your Life Insurance under the Plan will be paid to the beneficiary you have named If you have named more than one beneficiary arid one of those beneficiaries should die before you, his or her share of the
80
insurance will be paid to the surviving beneficiaries or if there is none, it will be paid to your estate.
The amount of your Life Insurance is $40,000.00, In no event shall your insurance continue beyond your date of retirement.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT BENEFIT
If, as the result of an accident, you suffer any of the losses listed below within 90 days of the accident, payment will be made as indicated. The principal amount of your Accident Death and Dismemberment Insurance is an amount of your Group Life Insurance.
LOSS O F
-	Life.
-Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of both eyes.
-	Both hands by severance at or above wristjoints.
-	Both feet by severance at or above anklejoints.
-	One hand or one foot by severance at or above wrist or ankle joints respectively, together with the total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye.
-	Loss of one hand and one foot by severance at or above wrist and anklejoints respectively.
One-half of the Principal Amount shall he payable for:
-Loss of one hand by severance at or above wrist joint.
-	Loss of one foot by severance at or above ankle joint.
-	Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye.
1.	If more than one of the losses specified in the Schedule of Losses and Indemnities shown above shall be sustained by the employee as a result of any one accident, payment shall not exceed the Principal Amount of Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance on the employee at the date of such accident.
2.	If an employee has suffered prior to the date of becoming
81
insured hereunder, or does thereafter suffer, the loss of one hand by severance at or above the wristjoint or one foot by severance at or above the ankle joint, or the total and irrecoverable loss of the sight of one eye, the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance on the Schedule of Insurance provided that the amount of Insurance payable for the loss of one hand, one foot, or the sight of one eye shall be one-half the principal amount of the Insurance.
3.	The Insurance shall not cover accident, injury, death or other loss which shall result either directly or indirectly, from any one of the following:
(a) self-destruction or self-inflicted injuries while sane or insane;
(b)	committing or attemptingto commit an assault or criminal offence;
(c)	riot, civil commotion, insurrection, war or hostilities of any kind, or any act incident thereto;
(d)	bodily or mental infirmity or illness or disease of any kind;
(e)	the inhalation of gas of any kind, voluntarily or otherwise, resulting in poisoning, asphyxiation or any other condition causing death;
(f)	poisoning or infection, other than infections occurring simultaneously with and in consequence of an accidental cut or wound;
(gj injuries of which there is no visible contusion or wound on the exterior of the body, unless drowning orintemal injuries are revealed by autopsy;
(h) participating in aeronautics otherthan as permitted under the carriers policy.
82
CONVERSION PRIVILEGE
When your insurance terminates because of termination of your employment, you will have the privilege of converting your Life Insurance, within the next 31 days without medical examination, to a new policy on any of the carriers regular plans for an amount not exceeding the amount of your Group Life Insurance.
If you die during the 31 day period in which you might have exercised this conversion privilege, your beneficiary will be paid the amount of Life Insurance which you would have been entitled to convert.
LONG TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE
DISABILITY
During the first year of income payments your disability must prevent you from performing any and every duty relating to your regular j ob or engaging in any occupation or performing any work in the sawmill. After that time you will be considered totally disabled if you are unable to engage in any occupation or perform in any work in the sawmill for which the carrier considers you to be reasonably qualified by education, training orexperience. However, if you are working or engage in any occupation for wage or profit other than rehabilitative employment approved by the carrier, you will not be considered to be totally disabled.
BASIC MONTHLY EARNINGS
Your regular monthly earnings on which your benefit will be based will exclude overtime pay, bonuses and other special compensation as at the date you become disabled.
BENEFIT
If you become totally disabled before you are 65 and your disability lasts longer than 52 weeks of benefits under the employer’s Weekly Indemnity Plan, you will be paid a
83
monthly income which is payable at the end of each month of disability as long as you are disabled but not beyond age 65 and in no event for more than the number of completed months equal to the employee’s service. You must be under treatment by a licensed physician to receive benefits.
The amount of income for which you are eligible will be reduced as follows:
1,	By any payment for loss of time to which you are entitled from Workers’ Compensation and Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, excluding any payment in respect of your children.
2.	Further reductions will be made so that the amount you would receive from the carrier and from any other sources (any other group, association and governmental insurance, sick leave or retirement plan of your employer) does not exceed 85% of your basic monthly earnings.
Generally, your monthly benefit is considered taxable income. If it is not taxable, the 85% limit would apply to your basic earnings after deductions have been made for income tax and pension plan.
Estimates of disability income from any of these sources will be used until the actual benefits have been established.
IF A DISABILITY RECURS
If you become totally disabled again within six months due to the saine or related cause and not receiving any income disability benefits, payments will commence again without the necessity of completing the 52 weeks. Disabilities occurring after the six month period will he treated as if no prior disability had occurred and the 52 week period must be completed again.
GENERAL
The group insurance policy must be in force when your 84
disability commences but payments will continue even if the policy is terminated as long as you remain disabled.
LIMITATIONS
Coverage is made as broad as possible. However, exclusions include self-inflicted injury; disabilities resulting from riot, civil commotion, insurrection, war or hostilities of any kind, or active duty in any armed service during a time of war.
WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
If you are totally disabled, unable to work, and under the continuing care of a physician, you will receive a weekly income not exceeding 70% of your weekly earnings. Your benefits will commence on the earlier of:
1.	The fourth day of disability caused by sickness.
2.	The first day of a disability due to an accident.
3.	The first day of hospitalization.
During any one period ofdisability your benefits will continue until you recover or for a maximum of 52 weeks, whichever is earlier.
EXCEPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS
Disability benefits are not payable for the following:
1.	A disability caused by self-inflicted injuries or illness.
2.	A disability resulting from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country, or participation in a riot.
3.	A disability due to any cause at anytime when you are on pregnancy leave of absence or could be placed on such leave by your employer in accordance with the relevant Provincial Statues or that agreed upon by you and your employer.
4.	For any disability for which you are entitled to benefits under any Workers’ Compensation Act.
5.	At any time when you are on vacation and receiving full pay.
85
HEALTH CARE BENEFITS
DRUGCOVERAGE
Your drug plan coverage, and that of your dependents, is effective on the first day of the second month following the date you were employed for full time and full pay. Drugs, serum, and injectibles purchased on a prescription of a medical doctor, except for vitamins and vitamin preparations (unless injected) and patent orproprietary medicines are eligible for coverage by this drug plan and available by presenting your personal identification card supplied by the carrier and a deductible fee per prescription.
HOSPITAL COVERAGE
Your Provincial Health Plan provides ward coverage for inhospital accommodation. This additional coverage allows you, and your dependents, semi-private in-hospital accommodation. This semi-private hospital coverage is effective on the first day of the fourth month following the date you were employed for full-time and full pay.
DENTAL BENEFIT
On behalf of each covered individual in your family, the Dental Benefit will reimburse you for dental expenses based on the percentages indicated by the carrier. The maximum amount payable per individual for services is $ 1,000.00.
TREATMENT PLAN
in order for you and your dentist to learn in advance how much the carrier will pay and how much must be paid by you, it is recommended that a Treatment Plan be filed with the carrier wheneverthe total cost of the proposed dental work is expected to exceed $200,00. The Treatment Plan identilies coverage and limitations for specific services and clarifies insurance percentages, specific limits and Dental Fee Guide allowance before dental treatment commences. The Treatment Plan is not intended to limit you in your choice of
86
dentist, to tell you cr your dentist what treatment should he performed or to tell the dentist what fee to charge.
A Treatment Plan is a plan of dental treatment (including x-rays if required) showing the patient’s dental needs, a written description of the proposed treatment necessary in the professional judgement of the dentist, and the cost of the proposed treatment.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
Eligible expenses are those which are recommended as necessary by a physician or dentist that are not in excess of the fee specified for general practitioners in the 1987 Dental or Denturist Fee Guide of the Province of Ontario. Fees for specialists will be considered if the patient was referred by a physician or another dentist. There are several dental procedures which are covered by Provincial Health Plans up to certain maximums. If the dentist or dental surgeon chooses to charge more than that payable by the Provincial Plan, legislation in some provinces does not permit the excess charges to be eligible under this Plan.
Situations may arise where alternate methods of treatment may be available. It is solely for you and your dentist to decide which method will be employed. The carrier reserves the right to use the least expensive method of treatment that would provide a professionally adequate result as the basis for determining their liability.
Only those treatments listed are eligible
The following treatments are payable at 100%:
EXAMINATIONS:
Initial examination of a new patient
(once every 3 years).............01110, 01120, 01130
Re-examination of a previous patient
(once every 6 months)..........................01200
87
Specific examination.........................01400
Emergency examination and/or consulation
...................................... 01300.94400
...................................... 94100,94200
CONSULTATIONS:
Treatment planning - per unit of time....... 05 100
With patient ............................... 05200
Another dentist............................. 93100
SPECIFIC DIAGNOSTIC PROCEDURES:
Bacteriologic cultures for determination
of pathologic agents...........................04100
Dental caries susceptibility test..............04200
Biopsy, soft-hard tissue................. 04300, 04310
Cytological examination......................... 04330
Pulp vitality tests..............................04400
RADIOGRAPHIC EXAMINATION AND INTERPRETATION (X-RAY):
Intraoral periapical films, complete series......02100
Intraoral periapical films,
-one to ten films................... 02111,02120 inch
Occlusal films...................... 02131,02134 incl.
Posterior bitewing films............02141,02144 incl.
Extraoral filins.................... 02201, 02204 incl.
Sinus examination............................... 02304
Sialography..................................... 02400
Use of radiopaque dyes to demonstrate lesions.. 024.30
Temporomandibular joint films............. 02504,02505
Panoramic film.................................. 02600
Cephalometric films.................02701,02705 incl.
Interpretation of radiographs from
another source - per unit of time................02800
Tomography...................................... 02920
Hand and wrist
(as diagnostic aid for dental treatment)........ 02930
PREVENTIVE SERVICES:
Scaling and polishing............... 11100, 11200, 11300
Topical fluoride treatment...................... 12400
Oral hygiene instruction................. 13200, 1.321 0
Occlusal equilibration.......................... 43310
88
TREATMENTOF DENTAL CARES (FILLINGS)
Sedative (palliative)dressing.................39930
AMALGAM RESTORATIONS:
Primary teeth.......................21101,21105 incl.
Permanent anterior and bicuspid teeth ....21211, 21215 incl.
Permanent molar teeth..............21221,21225 incl.
Pin reinforcement..................21301,21305 incl.
Silicate restorations...................22101 22102
Acrylic or composite restorations...23101, 23223 incl.
SURGICAL SERVICES - REMOVAL OF TEETH: (REMOVALOF ERUPTED TOOTH - UNCOMPLICATED)
Single tooth................................71101
Each additional tooth in	same surgical site..71111
SURGICAL REMOVALS:
Removal of erupted tooth (complicated).......72100
Removal of impacted tooth............. 72210, 72220
......................................72230,72240
REMOVAL OF RESIDUAL ROOTS:
Soft tissue coverage.........................72310
Bone tissue coverage.........................72320
Anaesthesia.....................92110,92120,92201
................................92202,92215,92251
................................92252,92310,92311
...................................... 92330,92340
PERIODONTAL SERVICES
(DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF GUM TISSUE)
NON-SURGICAL SERVICES- PER UNIT OF TIME
Application of displacementdressing........41100
Management of acute infections and
other oral lesions.........................41200
Desensitization of tooth surface...........41300
SURGICAL SERVICES
Gingival curettage..
Gingivoplasty.......
Gingivectomy........
Osseous surgery.....
42001
42002
42003 42100
89
Osseous grafts - single, multiple site.. 42103, 42104
Soft tissue grafts......................42200, 42300
Vestibuloplasty.................................42310
Post surgical treatment - periodontal,
per unit of time................................ 42500
ADJUNCTIVE PERIODONTAL SERVICES;
Provisional splinting - intra coronal, extra coronal •
per unit of time........................ 43200,43210
Periodontal scaling and root planning
per unit of time................................ 43400
Special periodontal appliances (including
occlusal guards)................................ 43600
ENDODONTIC SERVICES:
Pulp capping......................... 31100, 31110
Vital pulpotomy.......... 32201, 32202, 32210,32211
Root canal therapy....... 33100, 33120, 33200, 33220
......................... 33300, 33320, 33400,33420
Apexification............ 33501, 33502, 33503. 33504
......................... 33511,33512,33513,33514
Periapical Services...... 34101, 34102, 34103, 34104
......................... 34111,34112,34114,34115
......................... 34201,34202,34203,34212
Root amputation ■ amputation
at one root - two roots.............. 34401, 34402
OTHER ENDODONTIC PROCEDURES: (PREPARATIONOF TOOTH FOR TREATMENT)
Gingival curettage............................ 39100
Alveolectoniy................................. 39110
Banding of tooth to maintain sterile
operating field............................... 39120
Hemisection............... 39210, 39220, 39230, 39.300
Chemical bleaching only
per unit of time.............................. 39400
Intentional removal, apical filling
and reimplantation........ 39501, 39502, 39503, 39600
Emergency procedures...... 39901, 39902, 39903, 39904
............................ 39910,39940,39960,39970
........................................ 39980,39985
90
SURGICAL SERVICES:
Surgical exposure of tooth....... 72410, 72411,72412
Transplantation of a tooth.................... 72430
Surgical repositioning of a tooth............. 72440
Enucleation of an unerupted tooth
and follicle..................................... 72450
Alveoplasty - per unit of time............ 73100, 73110
Gingivoplastyand/or stomatoplasty......... 73119,73120
Osteoplasty- perunitof time........ 73133, 73134, 73135
.................................... 73140,73141
Surgical excision........74108,74109, 74408,74409
Surgical incision.................... 75100,75110
Fractures................ 76198,76210,76250,76310
........................ 76350,76910,76950,76951
Frenectomy..................... 77800, 77810, 78110
Miscellaneous surgical services .79104,79301,79302,79303
........................ 79304,79305,79306,79307
........................ 79308, 39401,79601,79602
79603,79604
Adjunctive general services -
drugs (injections)........................... 96100,96101
The following treatments are payable at 50%:
PROSTHETIC SERVICES:
Complete maxillary denture
(once every 3 years).........................51100
Complete mandibular denture
(once every 3 years).........................5IIIO
Complete maxillary and mandibular
dentures (once every 3 years) ..51120,51300,51310,51320
.................................51600,51610,51620
Removable partial dentures .... 52120, 52121, 52220, 52221
......................... 52230,52231,52320,52321
.........................52400,52410,52500, 52510
......................... 52520,52525,52530,52531
.........................52535, 52600, 52610, 52630
............................................ 52800
Denture adjustments...... 54250,54300,54301, 54302
Denture repairs.......... 55101, 55102, 55103, 55104
.........................55201, 55202, 55203,55204
................................55520,55530,55700
91
Denture rebasing, relining.56200, 56201,56210, 56211
...........................56220,56221,56250, 56231
...........................56260, 56261,56262, 56263
...........................56270,56271. 56272,56273
The following treatments are payable at 50%:
ORTHODONTIC SERVICES:
PRE-TREATMENT DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES:
Diagnostic Models. X-Rays...... 4530, 2701,2702
............................... 2703, 2704, 2705
Ccphalomctric work-up...................... 2750
PREVENTIVE & INTERCEPTIVE ORTHODONTICS:
Habit Inhibiting........ 82101, 82102, 82201, 82202
Space regaining................ 81105, 81106, 81201
.............................. 81202,81251.81252
Space Maintenance....... 15100, 15110, 15120, 15400
Cross Bite Correction, etc..... 81261, 81203, 81204
..................................... 81205,81206
CORRECTIVE ORTHODONTICS:
Removable& Fixed Appliance Therapy .811 IS. 81116, 81120
............................... 81125,81126,81130
.............................. 81131,81140,81207
.............................. 81208,81209,81210
...............................81211,81212,81213
.......................................... 83214
Retention............................ 831 11,831 12
92
VISION CARE BENEFIT
If, while insured, you incur Vision Care expensesforyourself or for a covered dependent you will be paid benefits in an amount equal to such Vision Care services, subject to the following provisions.
The following services when prescribed by a licensed physician or licensed optometrist shall be covered, but not to exceed $100,00, in any 24 month period effective date of ratification.
The following services when prescribed by a licensed physician or licensed optometrist shall be covered, but not to exceed $125.00, in any 24 month period effective September 1, 1996.
1.	Lenses and frames for eyeglasses, sunglasses and safety glasses.
2.	Contact lenses.
3.	Services and materials in connection with vision training and orthopics.
4.	Services and materials in connection with medical or surgical treatment.
5.	Replacement of lost, stolen or broken eyeglass lenses or eyeglass frames.
No benefits are payable for amounts charged for any of the following services:
1.	Services rendered before the insurance on account of the person who receives such services became effective.
2.	Services received because of any injuiy arising out of or in the course of any employmentfor wage or profit or sickness entitling the covered person to benefits under any Workers’ Compensation or Occupational Disease Law.
3.	Services for examinations for the purpose of prescribing or fitting of eyeglasses, sunglasses or safety glasses.
4.	Services to the extent that such services or benefits for
93
such services are available under any plan or program established pursuant to the laws or regulations or any Government and any services to the extent that any Government prohibits payment of insurance benefits therefore.
5.	Services to the extent that they or benefits therefore are provided under any other group insurance plan or prepayment plan or for which benefits are otherwise provided under the group policy.
6.	Services for which the person receiving them is not required to make payment, or where payment is received as a result of legal action or settlement.
IF YOU LEAVE OUR EMPLOY
YourVision Care Benefit will cease 3 1 days after leaving our employ if you have received Vision Care services as specified, as a direct result of a complete eye examination.
94
E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD, NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERSUNION & ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF EXPLANATION RE
PRODUCTION BONUS
^INTRODUCTION
In recognition of employee contribution and effort and the Company's need for increased quality production produced in a safe efficient manner, the Company and the Union agree to implement the following production bonus plan for the duration of the current Collective Agreement subject to the terms and conditions contained in this Letter of Understanding.
21SCOPE
This Production Bonus Plan will apply to the hourly rated employees under the jurisdiction of Local 31-X as outlined in Section 10 of this Letter of Understanding.
31AREAS COVERED BY PRODUCTION BONUS
For the purposes of this Production Bonus Plan, the operation
41BASE VOLUME LEVELS
Prior to any production bonus becoming payable, certain base volume levels must be reached. These levels are:
Area 1 - Output - 810 MFBM/dav
This is based on the following schedule:
Large Log Mill	2 shifts/day
Small Log Mill	2 shifts/day
95
8’ Debarkers Processor Area 2 - Innut 990 Line:
135 MFBM 210 MFBM 270 MFBM 260 MFBM
3 shifts/day 3 shifts/day
2X4X8 2 X 4 X RL 2 X 6 X RL 6 X 6 X RL
712 Line:	2X3X8
115 MFBM	2X4X7
165 MFBM	2X4X8
185 MFBM	2X6X8
165 MFBM
The above levels are based on 460 minute shifts
51PRODUCT1QN BONUS PAYMENTS
After the base volume levels have been reached (he payouts as outlined in Appendix I will be paid for all hours worked by the employee during the month.
6!MF,THOD___OE__CALCULATION____OE___BONUS
PRODUCTION
Area I ■ Quality production from each day will be compiled and then divided by the total number of days actually worked in the month.
96
Area 2 - Quality production for each day will be measured against the base volume levels for each dimension actually run. The excess of shortage of production for each day will be accumulated to the end of the month. This volume will then be divided by the production days in the month.
Production will be adjusted by physical inventories for overages and shortages at month end.
7'iOUALlTY AND YIELD SPECIFICATIONS
The payment of the bonus for each area will be dependent upon satisfactory performance in relation to the yield and quality guidelines established by the Company.
81BASE VOLUME UPDATES
The base volume levels have been arrived at after taking into consideration the current capabilities of the mills. It is understood and agreed that future capital investment, technological change, shifting and other operational changes will need to be taken into consideration to maintain up to date and meaningful base volume levels. Therefore, the parties further agree to a Production Bonus Bipartite Committee, consisting of equal representation of unionized employees and management, will be established to study and recommend appropriate changes to the base volume levels.
9),SAFETY
This production bonus plan recognizes the contribution of all employees to a safe and productive workplace. The Production Bonus bipartite committee is also mandated to assess any safety consequences from the plan and make recommendationsthereto.
imPARTICIPATION RATES
Employees working on production equipment will participate in accordance with their hours actually worked during the month.
97
Those employees noted below, who are not specifically assigned to either of the two areas will have their production bonus calculated by averaging the two production bonus payout rates of the two (2) areas.
Electricians
Mechanics
Yard & Site Personnel Carpenters
Millwrights (those working in Hydraulics)
Chip Truck Drivers
98