SOURCE ffft
ComfJSA-
Between
DOMTAR
CHEMICALS GROUP
Wood Preserving Division (Prince George)
and
(

V
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424
JULY 1,1991 - JUNE30,1994
?FP 1S tqqp

INDEX
Apprenticeship Training Program Arbitration Procedure Bargaining Agency Call-Back Time Casual Work
construction contracting Definition
Duration of Agreement Firefighting Agreement First Aid
Attendants
Training
Forestry Environmental Committee General Provisions Grading Tickets Grievance Procedure Health and Welfare Dental Insurance L-T.D.
Medical Pension Hot Meals
Hours of Work and Overtime Interpretation and Arbitration Job Training Leave of Absence Logging
Contractors
Hours of work & Overtime Rates
Long Term Disability Management
New Concepts Committee
Pay Days
Pension Plan
Permanent Plant Closure
Plywood Job Evaluation
Powerhouse Training Program
Rest Breaks
Right of Reference
Safety and Health
Safety Equipment
Sawmill Job Evaluation Plan
Seniority
Shift Differential
Statutory Holidays
Article	gage
XXI	49
XV	(2)	37
I	2
VII (10)	14
VII (12)	14
XVI	(11)	41
II	2
XXXIII	58
XXVI	54
V	(3)
XVI (10)
XXXII
XVI
V	(2) XIII
XVII
XVII (3) XVII (2)
XIX
XVII	( 1)
XVIII VII (14) VII
XV
XX IX
7
41 57 39
6
34
42
47
43
48 42
48 15
9
36
49 20
XVI (7)
VII (4)
V	(9)
XIX
III
XXX
VI
XVIII XVI ( )
XXVII
XXIX
VII	( 1) XIV
XII
XXIV
XXVII
VIII
v (7)
XI
40
1L
9
48
2
57
9
48
40
56
57
14 35 33 52 54
15 8
29
INDEX Pout'd
Article	Page
Technological Change Three Shift operations Tool Insurance Tools
Travel Time
Troubled Employee Program Union Security Vacations with Pay
One Years' Service Two Years’ service Seven Years’ Service Fifteen Years’ Service Twenty-Four years’ service Thirty Years’ Service Pay - Percentage of Wages Qualification for Vacation Pay Cut-Off Dates
Wages
Welders
Working Foremen
XXIII VII (5) XXV
XVI (9)
XXII
XXXI
IV
X
X (1)
X (2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6) (9> (10) (11)
(4)
XVI (5)
50
13
53
41
50
5?
3
24
24
24
25 25
25
26 26
27
28 5 7
40
SUPPLEMENTS

Wage Scale	1
Filing Room Categories Logging Category Wage Rates Miscellaneous Categories - Logging Miscellaneous Categories - Manufacturing operational Categories - Logging Trades - Logging Trades - Manufacturing Adjustments and Interpretations	2
Job Training Programs	3
Apprenticeship Training Program	4A
Apprenticeship Training Program	4B
Filer's & Fitter's Training Program Firefighting Agreement	5
sawmill Job Evaluation	6
Plywood Job Evaluation	7
Alternate Shift Scheduling	8
59
62
65
68
62
69 63 59
70 72 74 82 89 93 97
104
110
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 1st day o£ July, 1991
BETWEEN:	DOMTAR CHEMICALS GROUP,
WOOD PRESERVING DIVISION [PRINCE GEORGE) (hereinafter known as the 'Company') OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	IWA-CANADA, LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
(hereinafter known as the 'union') OF THE SECOND PART
1»	WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the parties
hereto that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationships between the employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement between the Parties hereto, AND
2.	WHEREAS the Company accepts responsibility to observe
each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement, and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Employees, AND
3. WHEREAS the Union accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement, and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Company.
NOW THEREFORE the Parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I. --BARGAIHING AGENCX
Section 1:
The Company agrees to recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining representative on behalf of its Employees properly and duly certified under the appropriate regulations in effect from time to time.
section 2:
?he Party of the First Part agrees that the bargaining authority of the Party of the Second Part shall not he impaired during the term of this new collective agreement. The Party of the First Part agrees that the only certification they will recognize during the tern of this new agreement is that of the Party of the Second Part unless ordered by due process of law to recognize some other bargaining authority.
ARTICLE II. PEFHflllOM
The terra ' Employee? as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Company on whose behalf the IWA-CANADA, Local 1-424 have been certified as bargaining agents, except and excluding foremen and others having authority to hire and fire, office workers, supervisory officials and salesmen.
section 1:
The management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the Employees are vested exclusively in the management, provided however that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
Section 2
?he Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline them or discharge them for proper cause.
Section 1:
The Conpany will co-operate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members, the enployees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present to new employees and to all Supervisors and Foremen, the Policy herein expressed.
Section 2:
All enployees who entered the employment of the Conpany on or after the 1st day of September, 1956, and all new Employees shall, within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement. as a condition of continued employment.
\
Section 3:
Any employee who is a member in good standing, or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this agreement.
section 4:
a)	Any employee who fails to maintain his/her membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments, shall be subject to discharge after seven (7) days written notice to the Company of the said Employee's refusal to maintain his/her membership.
b)	It is agreed that the application of this section means that when an employee fails to maintain his/her membership in good standing by refusing to pay dues and assessments, and provided proper notice has been given in accordance with the Agreement, the employee will be discharged for such refusal.
Section 5:
a)	No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his/her application for membership or reinstatement,
ARTICLE IV, Section 5 a) Cont'd
except as may be provided for in the IWA-CANADA Constitution and in accordance with the By-laws of Local 1-424 which the Local Unions certified as being correct.
b)	Any employee who applies to join the Union pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Union, shall not be subject to discharge from employment.
Section 6:
The Company shall require all new Employees, at the time of hiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union. All check-off forms to be forwarded to the Local Union within fifteen (15) days of hiring.
IWA-CANADA
CHECK-OFF
omt ______
PlEASIMM
NAM OF fMlOTff __
•00X51____
to OOetebQft'Wto TON t»»en>CtgTed? .	_	...	-	—-----------
----- - - - l«MIII«
nam or
.1*__
OPUunoN.
•«d >«mN to Local «•	- Ac Mewtog In piyauM «t
0* wnawnta t«t «t beta*
1 Owen IwMion fee* in Ok tmouM oil...
Z. Unen Sack Ouas in Ota amouM o»«-	-	—
amiintkf . _	_ .	-	— ia__
« i>w*»wwfiei*ainewainew*and wow
APPUCADON FOR MEURERSHe I lietcfcy ra«rt* and ecceat mao*** to tie ftVA-Cvtoda
loctoNo.»-______ and agree ta ettdt by 0* c«nj*M>ea
and OHawa el ■» weeeizaiien. to ew el *i#swe»eni d auaetacan taa mewaantoR I agree to (wta* aa rtgraa. arwiegea and nwneya ea*
SBNADjaC Of
iMfua.tuwiwn
LMtoUnenOMNa
ttM
CLOCXNO
ARTICLE IV Cont'd
Section 7:
This assignment, in the case of Employees already members of the Union shall be effective immediately and for those Employees not previously members of the Union, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days frcm the date of execution.
The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked by the employee) to the Local Union named therein, no later than the 15th day of the month following the month in which the deduction was made from the employee, with a written statement of names of employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
Section 8:
The Company shall furnish the Union with the Social Insurance Number of each employee on its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded to the Union after the execution of this Agreement or after the employee enters the employment of the Company, whichever dates last occurs
ARTICLE V - WAGES
section 1:
a)	Effective July 1, 1993, the wages of all hourly rated employees will be increased by eighty-five cents
($0.85) per hour.
b)	The basic rate for common labour shall be:
i) $17.07 per hour effective July 1, 1991. ii) $17.92 per hour effective July 1, 1993.
6
ARTICLE V, section 1 Cont'd
c)	The wage scale attached hereto, Supplement No. 1, is
approved by both Parties and may, subject to the mutual consent of both parties be revised once annually.
Section 2:	Grading Tickets
a)	T.nnihAr Graders
All Certified Lumber Graders shall receive the premiums set out below, in addition to the Job Evaluated rate.
Class A Grading Certificate - fifteen cents ($0.15) per hour
Class S Grading Certificate * ten cents ($0.10) per hour.
Provided that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as lumber graders.
b)	Lumber Grading Certificates
Any employee holding a Class A or B lumber grading certificate shall receive a premium of five cents ($0.05) per hour for all hours worked. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
c)	Grading Tickets shall be pernanent and valid certificates, but graders shall remain subject to the regulations of t.L.M.A,, C.L.M.A./ C.0.F.I>, N > I. L, A , , P.L.I.B. and other regulatory bodies.
d)	All lumber graders holding grading certificates	shall
attend upgrading classes as required.
e)	Lumber graders who are required to attend upgrading classes (grading rule changes) shall receive their regular straight-time rate for time spent in attending such classes.
f j	Where a Company is paying a bonus or premiun(s) greater
than set out above, it shall keep such policy in effect.
ARTICLE V Cont'd
Section 3: First Aid Attendants:
a)	Designated First Aid Attendants shall receive their job rate of pay plus the Ticket premium rate. All other employees holding valid First Aid tickets shall receive a premium of five cents ($0.05) per hour over and above their job rate. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
b)	Where a Company is paying a bonus or prejnium(s) greater than set out above, it shall keep such policy in effect.
Section 4: Welders
a)	Effective July 1st, 1981 the following shall be the
classification of welders in manufacturing conditional on the welders being qualified as required under the Standard Forest Industry Welding Specifications and either having completed the three (3) year apprenticeship program or having worked in the trade for six thousand (6000) hours as a welder.
Group 1 - Welder Group 2 - Welder Group 3 - Welder
(FI-101 - FI-102) (FI-103, DPMI, DPW2) (Uncertified)
b)	Employees employed as welders and who are required by
the employer to renew their welding qualifications shall be granted up to five (5) days paid leave of absence to attend school for instruction. The Company shall pay the cost of instruction and examinations.
Section 5:
It is agreed that employees engaged on contract or piece-work shall not receive less money than the equivalent of the hourly rate specified in the wage schedule for the number of hours worked in each pay period.
ARTICLE V Contfd
Section £
It is agreed that contract fallers and buckers, who have left the employ of the Company for any reason whatsoever, shall receive their final scale slip, and final payment for same, not later than thirty (30) days after their last day of employment.
Section 7:
The first (1st) shift, which may vary in individual operations, is the recognized day shift. Hours worked outside the recognized day shift shall be regarded as the second (2nd) and third (3rd) shifts*
Premium rate for second (2nd) and third (3rd) shifts shall be thirty-one cents ($0.31) per hour. A day shift employee working in excess of this regular shift will be paid rate and one-half without the differential.
Any employee on the second (2nd) or third (3rd) shift working in excess of his/her regular shift shall receive rate and one-half. For the purpose of the last sentence rates shall be rate plus thirty-one cents ($0.31).
Persons employed on other than on regular shifts, shall be paid the thirty-one cents ($0.31) premiuo rate for all hours worked outside the recognized day shift.
lOOO^i
Section 8
In the event that job conditions change, or new machinery is installed, or a new category is established, the Union and the representatives of CONIFER agree to meet with the company or Companies concerned to discuss designation and wage rates to be paid to the employees concerned*
9
ARTICLE V Cont'd
Section 9:	Lagging Rates
Logging rates shall be as set forth in Supplement No. 1
GROUPING AND LOGGING WAGE SCALE
Effective
Group	July 1, 1991
Level	Increment	Rate
Effective July 1, 1993 Increment , Rate
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
15
17
15
20
22
.23
.27
.28
.35
.36
.38
.36
$17.29
17.44
17.61
17.76 17.94 18.14 18.36 18.56 18.79 19.06 19.34 19.67 20.02 20.38
20.76
21.12
$18.14
18.29
18.46
18.61
18.79
18.99
19.21
19.41
19.64
19.91
20.19
20.52
20.87
21.23
21.61
21.97
ARTICLE VI - PAY DAYS
a)	The Company shall provide for pay-days every second week.
b)	Each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
ARTICLE VTI - HOURS OF
Section 1:
#
The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Friday inclusive.
v\0
ARTICLE VII, Section 1 Cont'd
b)
Overtime will be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a day, and for Saturday and/or Sunday, with the following exceptions:
Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
1) Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day.
ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six
(6) days.
iii)	Item ii) above shall not apply to employees who work on Sunday as a regular scheduled day.
iv)	For purposes of !this provision, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as a shift worked.
If a Statutory Holiday occurs during the work week, the employees shall only be required to work on Saturday and/or Sunday for the time lost due to the Statutory Holiday by mutual consent. For such work the employee shall be paid rate and one-half.
Section 2:	Engineers, Firemen, Millwrights, Maintenance,
Repair, Construction Employees and Watchmen:
a)	The regular hours of work shall be five (5) eight-hour days, with two (2} days of rest each week Monday through Sunday. Such days of rest will be consecutive days unless mutually agreed to be otherwise between the employee and the Company.
b)	Overtime shall be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, on Sundays and upon the employee's two designated rest days, if worked, with the following exceptions:
Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day.
ARTICLE VII, Section 2 b) Cont'd
ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
ill) Item ii) above shall not apply to employees who work on Sunday as a regular scheduled day.
iv)	For purposes of this provision, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as a shift worked.
Section 3:	Firefighters, Boatmen, First Aid Wen, Cook and
Bunkhouse Employees
a)	The weekly and daily hours shall be in accordance with the Employment Standards Act as amended December l, 1983 .
b)	Time worked by cookhouse and bunkhouse employees shall be computed on a daily basis provided, however that rate and one-half shall apply to hours worked in excess of eight (8) per day and forty (40) per week.
c)	Interpretation Northern Interior Lumbermen’s Association and International Woodworkers of America, Local 1-424, December 29th, 1960:
"Joint understanding is that the number of hours constituting a day for cookhouse and bunkhouse employees shall be eight (8) hours and that the rate of wages as set out in the present Agreement shall be considered as pay for the eight (E) hour day."
Section 4: Alternate Shift Scheduling
a)	Management, Plant or Camp Committees and Local Unions shall have the right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturing operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour week is maintained over an averaging period. Rate and ono-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday.
b)	Any variation(s) to Sections 1 and 2 above shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
ARTICLE VII, section 4 b) Cont'd.
j.) Negotiated agreement between the Local union and Local Management.
ii)	Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations.
c)	When alternative schedules have been implemented in accordance with a) andb) above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A.	Rate and one-half shall be paid for the following:
The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours of the established schedule.
Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
All hours worked on an employee's scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
All hours worked on Sunday except those excluded in the casual section.
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	All hours worked in excess of A i) above.
ii)	All hours worked on Sunday when Sunday is also an employee's scheduled rest day, if the employee has worked forty (40) straight-time hours in the preceding S/X (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the company.
i)
ii>
iii)
iv)
13
ARTICLE VII Section 4 Cont'd,
c. Supplement No. 8 - Alternate shift scheduling, contains the agreed upon general principles and parameters for the establishment, implementation or discontinuance of alternate shift schedules.
Section 5:	Three-Shift operations
a)	The Employer shall have the right to operate his/her plant or any part thereof on a three (3) shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Employers’ option.
b)	It is agreed that Clause a) above shall only apply to those employees actually working on a three (3) shift basis.
c)	The Employers shall have the right to determine the number of shifts operated in any unit or department of the operation.
Section 6:
It is agreed between the Parties that if three (3) hours or less are necessary after midnight Friday, or on a Statutory Holiday, to complete the shift which commenced on Friday afternoon, or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight to complete this shift will be paid at straight time.
Section 7:
The foregoing provisions of this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 8:
Any employee called for work and finding no work available due to reasons beyond his or her control shall be entitled to
ARTICLE VII, Section 8 Cont'd
two (2) hours pay at the usual rate. This shall apply unless the Company gives notice cancelling the said call.
Such notice shall be considered to be given by an announcement over the appropriate local radio station(s), prior to the commencement of the shift in accordance with Section 2b) of Supplement No. 2.
section 9:
when an employee is called for work and starts work, he/she shall receive four (4) hours pay at his/her regular rate unless his/her work is suspended because of inclement weather, or other reasons completely beyond the control of the Company.
Section 10:	Call-Back Time
Employees called back to work after completion of their regular scheduled shift shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours at rate and one-half.
Section 11:
Employees employed in manufacturing plants will be provided two (2) ten-minute breaks, one (1) within each half of a shift, at a time designated by the Company, which shall not be later than one (1) hour before the end of each half shift.
It is agreed that the two (2) breaks in the above paragraph will be applicable to shifts of seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours or more. Wm a shift is less than seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours (ie six and one-half (6 1/2) hour graveyard shift) only one (1) break will be given.
section 12:	Casual Work
a)	The team 'Casual Work' as used in this Agreement shall apply only to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-off regular employees or other persons hereinafter referred to as ’Casual Employees.'
15
ARTICLE VII, Section 12 Cont'd
b)	Casual employees on maintenance, repair or preparatory work shall be paid Straight-time rates, and those on production shall be paid rate and one-half for all work performed on Saturday and Sunday.
c)	Casual work on maintenance, repair and preparatory work will be paid at straight-time job rate.
d)	Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as Casual Employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said casual employees.
e)	The employer agrees to keep a separate seniority list of casual employees who have worked at least ten (10) working days, exclusively for recall purposes and, subject to clause d}, further agrees to recall casual employees in accordance with their seniority as set forth in this list.
Section 13:
When an employee is unavoidably prevented from reporting for his/her scheduled shift, if reasonably possible, he/she must give notice to his/her foreman, or at the Company office, at least two (2) hours before the shift commences.
Section 14:	Hot Heals
Where maintenance, repair or construction employees are required to work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal, such hot meal to be consumed by the employee on Company time before beginning the overtime work.
ARTICLE VIII - SSHIORITY
Section 1:
a)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, it shall be mutually agreed that all employees are hired on probation, the probationary
ARTICLE VIII, Section 1 a) Cont'd
period to continue until thirty (30) days have been worked, during which time they are to be considered temporary workers only, and during this same period no seniority rights shall be recognized.
b)	It is agreed that probationary employees will have preference over Casual employees for any work performed during the normal work week, subject to competency.
c)	It is further agreed that in the application of b) above, probationary employees will be called in for work in accordance with their hiring date, unless such call-in is beyond the control of the employer, and is subject to the employee being competent to perform the work. This obligation does not apply where the employee cannot be readily contacted or where the employee has already worked one shift in the 24-hour period.
d} Upon completion of thirty (30) days worked they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company's employ, provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) days worked shall only be cumulative within the three (3) calendar months following the date of entering employment.
section 2:
a)	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority, competency considered.
b)	The Company and the Union will meet to discuss a procedure for posting of vacancies of jobs above base rate.
c)	Where the Company operates more than one plant, each such plant will be considered separately for seniority purposes: except where the Union and Company agree upon some different arrangement.
section 3:
When making promotions, the Company agrees to give due consideration to length of service.
ARTICLE VIII, Section 3 Cont'd,
d-
e--
b)
c)
d)
In the event of a reduction of forces the last person hired shall be the first released, subject to the provisions of Section 2 of this Article.
During a reduction of forces where an employee's seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regular job he/she may elect whether or not to apply his/her seniority to obtain a lover paid job or a job paying the same rate of pay or accept a lay-off until his/her regular job becomes available, provided however :
1) If during the lay-off period the employee wishes to return to work and so notifies the Company, he/she shall be called back to work as soon as his/her seniority entitles him/her to a job.
2) The application of this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his/her rights, bumping an employee with less seniority.
During a reduction of forces where an employee's seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regular job he/she may elect to apply his/her seniority to obtain a job paying a higher rate if he/she has previously held the job in the operation on a regular basis.
section 4:
a)	It is agreed that when employees are to be re-hired after a lay-off, it shall be done on the basis of the last person released shall be the first person re-employed, subject to provisions of Section 2 a). It is agreed that in cases of emergency the application of plant seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding three (3) days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision it shall notify the Committee or the Local Union immediately.
b)	where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions, the application of seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding five (S) working days. If the Company
ARTICLE VIII, Section 4 b) Cont'd
decides to exercise its rights under this provision it shall notify the Shop Committee as soon as possible.
Section 5:
a)	Mien re-employing, in accordance with Section 4, after seasonal shut-down, all employees shall be notified by telegram or registered letter at least seven (7) days before re-starting of operation. The employees must reply by telegram or registered letter in the affimiative within ninety-six (96) hours of the telegram or registered letter being sent out by the Company, and appear for work not later than the above stated seven (7) day period.
b)	Employees resident in the Province of Alberta, or the Yukon Territories shall be entitled to one (1) additional day to report and employees resident in any other Canadian Province or the United States shall be entitled to two (2) additional days to report.
c)	It shall be the srployee's responsibility to keep the Company infomted of his/her address during the period of shut-down.
d)	It is agreed that all employees shall, upon returning to employment, in accordance with this section, retain all seniority rights.
Section 6:
It is agreed that upon the request of the Union a list will be supplied by the Company setting out the name and the starting date with the Company of each regular employee: however, such request shall not be granted more than twice during each year of the tern of the Agreement.
The company will advise the Union once each sonth of changes to the said list.
ARTICLE VIII Cont'd.
Section 7:
a)	It is mutually agreed that when hiring new employees consideration for preference shall, subject to the same conditions as in Section 2 above, be given to those employees of the Company having had previous seniority and who have an application on file.
b)	The Company signatory to this Agreement undertakes to give preference in hiring to former employees having previous Conpany seniority seeking enploynent as a result of operational closures or crew reductions in other operations of the Conpany.
Section 8:
It is agreed between the Parties that seniority during
lay-offs shall be retained on the following basis:
a)	Employees with less than one (1) year's service will retain their seniority for a period of eight (8) months.
b)	Employees with one (1) or more year's service shell retain their seniority for one (L) year, plus one (1) additional month for each year's service, up to an additional six (6) months.
c)	A laid-off employee's seniority retention as provided for in a) and b) above will be re-instated in the event of re-employment before the expiry of seniority retention and on the completion of one dy's work.
Section 9:
It is agreed that when an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory or staff position, he/she will continue to accumulate seniority for a period of ninety (90) days. At any time during this ninety (90) day period the individual shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit in the job which he/she would have held if he/she had not left the bargaining unit. (in special cases this ninety (90) day period may be extended for up to a further ninety (90) days by mutual agreement between the Company and the Shop Committee. ) At the expiration of the period mentioned above,

- 20
ARTICLE VIII, Section 9 Cont'd.
his/her seniority will be frozen. Thus, if at a later date, he/she ceases to be a supervisor or staff worker and the Company desires to retain his/her services, it is hereby agreed that reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit provided however, that any employee so reinstated must return to the 'jcb held at the time of his/her promotton to the supervisory or staff position.
Section L
a)	Any employee desiring leave of absence for any reason other than those set out in Sections 2 and 3 of this Article must obtain same in writing from the Company, a copy of such leave to be forwarded to the Local union.
b)	Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this section for a period of longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the company agrees to notify the Job Steward and the union as to the circumstances for the granting of such period of leave.
section 2:
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering illness or injury, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the employer. The employee shall report, or cause to have reported, to the company the injury or illness which requires his/her absence from the operation. The employee shall have a reasonable period of time to present a medical certificate if requested by the Company.
Section 3:
The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or elected to Union office for a period of up to and including one (1) year. Further leave of absence may be granted by mutual consent. Any employee who obtains such leave of absence shall return
ARTICLE IX, Section 3 a) Cont'd
to the Company within thirty (3 0 calendar days after completion of his/her term of employment with the union.
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union Conventions, or members of any Union Negotiating Committee in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
It is agreed that before the employee receives this Leave of Absence as set forth in clauses a) and b) above, the employer will be given notice in writing (in the case of a) - fifteen (15) calendar days, in the case of b) - five (5) calendar days) by the Union in order to replace the employee with a competent substitute.
d)	The Union will make every effort in requesting such
leaves of absence to avoid requests that will unduly deplete the crew in any one department which will impair production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Union will co-operate with the Company in making substitute employees available or select alternate delegates to attend Union functions.
Section 4:	Compassionate Leave
By mutual agreement leave of absence will be granted to a maximum of six (6) months without pay to the employees for compassionate reasons or for educational or training or extended vacation purposes, conditional on the following terms:
a)	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application.
c)	The Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant or may postpone leave where a suitable replacement is not available.
22
ARTICLE IX, Section 4 Cont'd
d)	That the Company will consult with the Shop Committee in respect of any application for leave under this section.
e} The Company will only be obliged to grant leave of absence for educational and training purposes to employees who intend to take training that will assist the individual in obtaining skills related to the industry.
€)	Employees granted Leave of Absence pursuant to this
section shall be required to pay the appropriate premiums for Medical Services Plan, Extended Health Benefits, and Dental Plan coverage i n accordance with sections 8 d) and e) of the Memorandum of Agreement dated December 10th, 1983.
g)	The Union agrees it will provide a letter regarding
problems which arise from extended vacation applications.
h) A Committee shall be established during the term of the 1977-1979 Aareement to clarify the terms of this Section.
section 5 Maternity Leave
TO provide for a reasonable period of time for extended maternity leave without pay to female employees where there is a valid medical reason.
section 6:	Bereavement Leave
b)
When death occurs to a member of a regular full-time employee's immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence for which he/she shall be compensated at his/her regular straight time hourly rate of pay for hours lost from his/her regular work schedule for a maximum of three (3) consecutive days.
Piece workers who are entitled to bereavement leave shall be compensated in accordance with the principle established in Article 33, Section 2 b).
ARTICLE IX, Section 6 Cont'd
c)	Members of the employee's immediate family are defined as the employee's spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters,mother-in-law, father-in-law, sons-in-law,	daughters-in-law,	step-parents,
grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchildren, and step-children.
d)
Compensable hours under the terms of this Section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
. .-=» / /O &

Section 7:	Jury Duty
/
a) Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, Coroner's Duty, or as a crown Witness or Coroner's Witness on a day which he/she would normally have worked will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay received for Jury Duty and his/her regular straight time hourly rate of pay for his/her regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received for Jury Duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of Jury Service and Jury Duty pay received.
b) Any piece-worker who is required to perform Jury Duty shall be compensated for the difference between statutory pay received for Jury Duty and his/her job rate in accordance with the principle established in Article n, Section 2 b).
c)	Hours paid for Jury Duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation and for recognized paid holidays but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 8:	Public office
a) The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to and
- 24
ARTICLE IX Section 8 a) Cont'd
including eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office, shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of such office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for conducting Municipal business.
c)	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
ARTICLE X - VACATIONS WITH PAY
tion Is
Employees with one (1) to two (2) years' continuous service shall receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay based on the greater of five percent (5%) or eighty (80) hours at the hourly rate of the esiployee's regular jcb.
Section 2:	Two Years' Service
Employees with two (2) or more years' continuous service with the company shall receive three (3) weeks' vacation with vacation pay based on the greater of seven percent (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the working year or one hundred and twenty (12 0) hours at the hourly rate of the aployee's regular jcb.
a)
b) The third week vacation as in a) above will be taken, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in the above Section, but at a time convenient to the company.
25
ARTICLE X Cont'd.	£	— 0
Section 3:	Seven Years' service
a)	Employees with seven (7) or more years' continuous service shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with vacation pay based on the greater of nine percent (9%) of the wages or salary earned during the year of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job.
b)	The additional one (1) week will be taken when convenient for the company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1 and 2 herein.
/S'-
Section 4:	Fifteen Years’ Service
a) Employees with fifteen (15) or more years' continuous service shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with vacation pay based on the greater of eleven percent (11%) of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement, or two hundred (200) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job.
b) The additional two (2) weeks will be taken when convenient for the company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2, and 3 herein.
section 5:	Twenty-pour Years' service
•2- V-
r £
a) An employee with twenty-four (2 4) or more years' consecutive service shall receive six (6) weeks vacation with vacation pay based on the greater of thirteen percent (13%) of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and
forty (240) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job.
b) The additional three (3) weeks will be taken when convenient for the company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 herein.
ARTICLE X Cont'd
Section 6:	Thirty Years’ service
a)	Employees with thirty (30) years or more continuous service shall receive seven (7) weeks vacation with vacation pay based on the greater of fifteen percent
(15%) of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job.
b)	The additional four (4) weeks will be taken when convenient for the company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2, 2, 4, and 5 herein.
Section 7:
Vacations with pay for employees engaged on piece work shall be based on the average daily earnings for the previous twelve (12) months, or such lesser period of time employed.
section 8:
Vacations for employees shall be taken at such time as mutually agreed upon by the Union Committee and the Company when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired.
Section 9:	Vacation Pay - Percentage of Wages Method
The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations with pay for an employee after one (l) continuous year of employment.
a)	Absence on Workers' Compensation up to a period of one
(1) year, provided the employee returns to his/her employment.
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1) year, provided the employee returns to his/her employment. The Company shall nave the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner. The employee shall have a reasonable period of time to present such medical certificate.
27
ARTICLE X Section 9 Cont'd
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement.
d)	Absence due to time served on Jury Duty in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the Company in writing shall be credited towards entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent on such leave shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 10:	Qualification for Vacation Pay - Regular Job
Rate Method
a)	i) In order for an employee to qualify for the
amount generated by the hours times the regular job rate method,the employee must have worked a minimum of fifteen hundred (1500) hours in the «plcyee's first year of service and a minimum of one thousand (1000) hours during the aployee's succeeding years of entitlement.
ii) Where there is a common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in i) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeeding year.
iii)	Where there is no common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee's anniversary date in one year to his/her anniversary date in the succeeding year.
b)	For purposes of computing the requisite hours the
following will be included:
i) All hours worked: ii) Statutory Holiday hours:
iii)	Jury and Crown Witness duty;
iv)	Bereavement Leave:
ARTICLE X, Section 10 b) Cont'd.
v)	Vacation hours:
vi]	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of an accident recognized as compensable by the Workers’ Compensation Board and suffered during the course of employment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee returns to his/her employment.
vii)	Time not exceeding one (l) year, lost as the result of a non-occupational accident or illness, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that at the time of the accident or illness the employee has been on the payroll for not less than one (1) year and that he/she returns to his/her employment. It is understood that the employer may require that the employee provide a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
viii} Tine lost as a result of lay-off shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for requisite hours.
ix) Employees who report for work and who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (3) hours for any such shift for purposes of computing requisite hours under this Section. Any employee who qualifies for call time in a day shall receive credit under this Section for eight (8) hours or credit for the hours for which wages were paid, whichever is greater.
x) All hours worked in more than one (1) division of the parent company as a result of transfer or lay-off.
Section 11:
For the purposes of administration the Company cut-off date shall be deemed to be the aployee’s anniversary date for the vacation year. It is further agreed that the employee will be entitled to an adjustment of the appropriate percentage of vacation pay when he/she qualifies for additional vacations
ARTICLE X, Section 11 Cont'd
for increased service with the Company as provided for under Sections 2 to 6 inclusive.
Section 12:	Employment Standards Act
Part 4 - Annual Vacation of the Employment Standards Act, S.B.C., 1980, c. 10, and amendments thereto as consolidated December 1,	1983, except where varied or modified by the
provisions herein, shall become a part of this Agreement.
ARTTPT.B XT - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS Section 1:
a)	All hourly-rated employees who work on New Year's- Day, , Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, British ^ Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Bay shall be paid rate and one-half for all hours so worked.
b)	In the event one of the above Statutory Holidays falls on a Sunday, the previous Friday or the following Monday shall be observed as the Holiday. In the event that one of the within named Statutory Holidays falls on Saturday it shall be observed the preceding Friday or succeeding Monday as agreed between the company and the Plant Committee.
c)	In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, and where the Company and Plant Committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
d)	At the option of the Company, but whenever possible, by mutual agreement with the Plant Committee, either Good Friday or Easter Monday shall become the designated Easter Holiday, and the Company shall notify its employees of the designation at least one (1) week prior to the said Holiday.
ARTICLE XI Section 1 Cont'd
e)	When a Statutory Holiday falls on a Friday, employees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, by mutual agreement between the Company and the Plant Committee may work on the Friday statutory holiday at the straight time job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday.
f)	In the case of a maintenance employee where one of the Statutory Holidays is observed on his/her rest day, he/she shall have a day off without pay in lieu thereof at a mutually agreeable time.
g)	Notwithstanding the above, in logging, a Statutory Holiday may be observed on another mutually agreed upon day in a week other than the week in which it occurs.
An employee who qualifies for such Statutory Holiday on the day it occurs, and works on that day, will be paid for the Statutory Holiday at straight-time rates.
section a:
a)
b>
c)
A 11 hourly-rated and piece-work employees who qualify for the paid holiday under the conditions set out below shall be paid for the holiday at their regular job rate of pay for their regular work schedule. The Parties hereto agree that the paid Statutory Holidays shall be as follows:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Christmas Day
British Columbia Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Boxing Day
Piece-work employees shall receive pay for the statutory holidays for which they qualify, based on the daily average earnings for the days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) working days.
All hourly-rated employees working on a paid holiday shall receive rate and one-half for hours worked on such day in addition to the holiday pay to which he/she may be entitled.
ARTICLE XI, Section 2 Cont'd
d)	Cook and bunkhouse employees who work on a statutory holiday shall receive at the end of their regular work schedule, an additional day off with pay to be added to their leave and vacation allowance accumulated in accordance with Article VII, Section 3.
e)	To qualify for statutory holidays, an employee must have been on the Company payroll for the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday and must have worked his/her last regularly scheduled work day before, and his/her first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his/her absence is due to a compensable occupational injury or illness, which occurred within six (6) months of the holiday, or the employee is on authorized leave of absence in accordance with Section 2 or 3 of Article IX.
f)	In the case of illness or injury, the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
g)	Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, the employee must have worked one (1) day before and one (1) day after the holiday, both of which must fall
within a period of sixty (60) calendar days.
Section 3 Personal Floating Holiday
This section becomes effective September 1st. 1978. This Personal Floating Holiday is in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day, but this section shall come into operation on its effective date even if Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed.
a)	Personal Floating Holiday
Regular full-time employees will be granted one (I) Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of this Agreement, to be arranged at a time suitable to the Employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production.
ARTICLE XI, Section 3 Cont'd
b)
When the Personal Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid for the said Holiday at his/her regular job rate of pay for his/her regular work schedule, subject to the following conditions:
A new enployee mist have been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday.
ii) An enployee will not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for more than nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury.
iii)	An enployee shall apply on an approved form, at least seven (7) days in advance, for his/her Personal Floating Holiday. The enployee shall receive notice of the disposition of his/her request a ndninum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday.
iv)	If an enployee is required to work on his/her Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date has been designated for such holiday, the employee shall be paid over-time for such work at the rate of time and one-half. The enployee will then be entitled to take the holiday with pay at a later date to be mitually agreed upon.
V) Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 30th of each contract year will be scheduled by management.
vi) A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on an employee’s regular rest day.
vii) Where an employee chooses Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday straight time rates will apply.
33
Section 1:
The Company and Employees will co-operate to assure safe working methods and conditions and devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon to be provided by the Conpany.
Section 2:
The Management of every operation shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee of four (4) to six (6) members according to the size of the operation. Members of the Committee shall be designated to equal numbers by the Employees and the Enployer. Employee representatives shall be regular enployees in the operation with at least one (1) year's experience.
: one i
Ml
section 3:
Safety meetings will be held during working hours where possible. Employee's time will not be deducted for attending such meetings or investigations into accidents. It is recognized that in nulti-shift and in logging operations, meetings will occur outside of working hours for certain enployees. when meetings take place outside of an enployee's working hours, he/she will be conpensated at his/her regular hourly straight time rate of pay for the time spent attending such meetings, investigations and inspections up to a maxinum of two “ ' ■	■
Section
The conpany will require all Cookhouse enployees to have a health card from a recognized doctor within ten (10) days of employment and shall renew same every six (6) months. Cost of medical examination is to be borne by the Employer if the Employee stays on the job thirty (30) days. This requirement is subject to medical service being available.
Section 5:
Effective July 1, 1989, an IWA-Forest Industry Safety and Health Research Program be established on the following general principles:
ARTICLE XII Section 5 Cont'd
a)	The Plan will be jointly trusteed.
b)	The Plan is to be funded on the basis of an Industry contribution of one-half cent (1/2) per hour per employee per hour worked, effective July 1, 1989.
c)	The trustees will be appointed in the first year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish objectives and procedures.
ARTICLE XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
section L
A Grievance Committee shall be elected to consist of two (2) to four (4) employees elected by the Union members employed in the operation covered by this Agreement. Members of this Grievance Committee shall have completed their probationary period with the Company and shall have at least one (1) year's experience in the type of operation.
Wherever possible, members shall be selected on a departmental basis.
Meetings of the Grievance Committee shall, except in cases of emergency, and wherever possible, be held outside of working hours. In the event that a grievance should arise it shall be dealt with in the following manner, without stoppage of work.
Step 1
The individual employee involved with or without the Job Steward shall first take up the matter with the Foreman directly in charge of the work within fourteen (14) days from the Occurrence of the event or events giving rise to the grievance or from the time when the employee has knowledge or may be reasonably prestired to have knowledge of such event or events.
step 2
If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be reduced to writing by both parties when the same employee and the Comnittee shall take up the
- 35
ARTICLE XIII, Section 1 Cont'd.
Grievance with the Plant Superintendent. If desired the Union Business Agent "shall accompany the Committee.
Step 3
If the grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Local Union and the Management.
Step 4
If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
Section 2:
a)	If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage under
Step 2,	3, or 4 within fourteen (14) days after
completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. The fourteen (14) day limit may be extended by mutual consent of both parties.
b)	The Parties agree that the operation of section 96, Subsection (1), of the Industrial Relations Act, is specifically excluded from this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIV - RTOHT OP REFERENCE
Section It
If the two Parties fail to agree upon an interpretation of the Agreement, either Party shall have the right to refer the matter to the Joint Industry Committee, hereinafter provided, and if either party does make such reference, the other Party must accept the reference.
Section 2:
The Joint Industry Committee shall consist of three (3) representatives selected by the IWA-CANADA, C.L.C. Negotiating
ARTICLE XIV, Section 2 Cont'd
Committee and three (3) representatives selected by the Employers represented in the negotiations of this Agreement, and the two (2) committees may be represented by one (1) or more Parties selected by them.
Section 3:
When an interpretation of the Agreement has been referred to the Joint Committee, this reference shall be for the period of forty-eight (48) hours or longer by mutual consent of the Parties to this Agreement. In case the Joint Committee agrees upon a recommendation or interpretation, this shall be furnished in writing to the Union involved and to the Employer.
Section 4:
In the event the Joint committee members disagree, all the facts in the case as found by the Union and Union members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submitted to the Employer and to the Union Members involved. The facts in the case as found by the Employer and the employer members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing and given to the Union member employees for their information.
Section 5:
If a satisfactory interpretation of the point in question is not reached, either Party may refer the question to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE XV - INTERPRETATION AMD ARBITRATION
Section 1:	Interpretation
a) In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation of this Agreement which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by interpretation in the following manner.
ARTICLE XV Section 1 Cont'd
b)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by Registered Hail on the question or questions to be interpreted. After receiving such notice and statement, each of the Parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreter selected by the Parties.
c)	The Parties agree to __________________________ as the
Interpreter for the duration of this Agreement.
d)	In the event that the Interpreter as provided for in c) herein is not available to preside as Interpreter under this section, the Parties agree that they will request the Honourable Minister of Labour of the Province of British Columbia to appoint a Judge either of the Supreme Court of British Columbia or the Court of Appeal of the Province to preside as Interpreter for the dispute then pending.
e)	The decision of the Interpreter shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Parts.
Section 2:	Arbitration
a)	In the case of a dispute arising under this Agreement, except as to Interpretations of this Agreement, which the Parties are unable to settle themselves, as set out in Article XIII, the matter shall be determined by Arbitration in the following manner:
b)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by Registered Mail of the question to be arbitrated.
c)	After receiving such notice and statement, each of the Parties will then refer the matter in writing to the Arbitrator who has been selected by the Parties.
d)	The Parties shall appoint a panel of three (3) Arbitrators. If the Parties fail to appoint the required three (3) Arbitrators, they shall forthwith request the Honourable Minister of Labour of the Province of British Columbia to appoint the arbitrators required.
e)	The single Arbitrator shall be selected from the panel of three (3) Arbitrators on a rotational basis.
38
ARTICLE XV, Section 2 Cont'd
f)	In the event that the Arbitrators provided for in this Section are not available to preside as Arbitrator under this Section, the Parties agree to meet and attempt to select a mutually satisfactory arbitrator. If unable to select one which is mutually satisfactory, the Parties further agree to request the Honourable Minister of Labour of the Province of British Columbia to appoint an Arbitrator.
g)	If the Arbitrator finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, such employee shall be reinstated with all his/her rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall further make the determination on the amount of lost pay to be paid to the employee.
h)	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Parts.
section 3:
The Parties of the First and Second Parts will each bear one-half (1/2) of the expenses of interpretations and arbitrations including ' the salary of the Interpreter or Arbitrator plus any stenographic, secretarial and rent expenses which may be incurred in respect of such proceedings.
section 4: Place of Hearing
Any arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held at such place as may be decided by the Arbitrator.
Section 5:	Expedited Arbitration
A Committee shall be established to develop and implement a system of expedited arbitration of grievances. The chairman of this Cooaittee will be H. Allan Hope, Q.C. The Committee shall report to the parties not later than July 1st, 1984.
Section 1:
a)	The Union will, within sixty (60) days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members of the Shop Committee. The Union or Shop Committee will inform the Company in writing when any member change takes place on the said Committee. No member of the Shop Committee will be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is carried out.
b)	For the purposes of this Agreement, when the word 'Committee' is used it shall mean Shop, Camp, Mill or Plant Committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
c)	Official Union representatives shall obtain access to the Ccnpany's operations for the purposes of this Agreement by written permission which will be granted by the Company on request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
section 2:
The Company agrees that the rate for Board and Lodging shall be two dollars and thirty-five cents ($2.35) per day.
Section 3:	No Strike Pending Grievance and Arbitration
Procedure
The Union agrees that it will not cause, promote, sanction, or authorize any strike, sitdown, slowdown, sympathetic strike, or other interference with work by the employees for any cause whatsoever until all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedures have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Company.
Section 4:	No Lockout Pending Grievance and Arbitration
Procedure
The Company agrees it will not create or institute any lockout of the employees with respect to any dispute between the Company and the Union or the Company and its employees until
ARTICLE XVI, Section 4 Cont'd.
all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Union or its employees.
Section 5:	Working Foremen
Employees outside the bargaining unit will not perform work that is normally done by employees in the bargaining unit. However, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting foremen from doing work for purposes of instruction, provided by so doing a lay-off of bargaining unit employees does not result, or in the case of an emergency when regular employees are not available, provided that every reasonable effort is made to find a replacement.
Section 6:	permanent Plant Closure - Severance Pay
Effective February 1st, 1975, employees temninated by the Company because of permanent closure of a manufacturing plant shall be entitled to severance pay equal to one (1) wedc's pay for each year of continuous service and thereafter in increments of completed months of service.
Where a plant is relocated and the employees involved are not required to relocate their place of residence or are not terminated by the employer as a result of the plant relocation, they shall not be entitled to severance pay under this Article.
c)
Effective July 1st, 1982 sixty closure will be provided.
Section 7:	Contractors
rjkueu.
</,
(60) days notice of
a)	The Company will not contract out any work that is performed by employees in the Bargaining unit at the effective date of the agreement.
b)	Current practices in operations shall be agreed on with the local union in writing. Until such time as agreement is reached the above clause a) only will apply.
ARTICLE XVI Ccnt'd.
Section 8:	Planerman Training
A Joint Committee be established to discuss and implement a Planerman's Training Program.
Section 9:	Tools
a)	The Company will repair or replace those Tradesmen tools that are damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties.
b)	'The Company will make available Tradesmen's tools
required upon the introduction of the metric system.
c}	During the introduction of equipment which requires the
use of metric tools, the Company will make metric tools available at no cost, for use by Tradesmen.
Section 10:	First Aid Training
Employees of the Company who, by mutual agreement, train or re-train for Industrial First Aid Certificates, will be compensated in the following manner:
a)	The Company will pay the cost of the course tuition and materials required to those employees who pass the course.
b)	The Company will pay lost time wages to designated First Aid Attendants.
section ll:	construction Contracting
a)	It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related to 'nar' construction with tradesmen employed by an outside contractor, plant tradesmen will be paid the 'outside' contractor(s) rate(s).
b)	For the purpose of this Agreement 'new' construction shall be defined as meaning:
i)	The construction of major new buildings and major additions to existing buildings.
ARTICLE XVI, Section 11 b) Cont'd
C)
ii)	The addition of new or used major production machinery and related equipment not previously in existence.
i) 'Tradesmen' shall mean journeymen and apprentices in the following trades:
Machinist	Millwright
Steanfitter/Pipefitter	Welder
Electrician	Carpenter
ii) 'Contractor's Rate' shall only mean the hourly wage paid by that contractor and not any other payment or working conditions.
ARTICLE YVTT -Section 1:	Medical
a)	The Company agrees to provide medical coverage for its employees by participating in the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia.
b)	The Company agrees to provide Extended Health Benefits
to a lifetime maximum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00); including Hospitalization coverage up to a maximum of eight dollars and fifty cents ($8.50) per day:	to its employees by participating in a plan
entered into between the Company and an appropriate carrier.
c)	Medical coverage eligibility shall be the first of the month following date of employment.
d)	Total cost of providing medical coverage, including Extended Health Benefit coverage, shall be borne by the Company.	_____________________

^0%
Lay-off coverage for employees with more than three (3) months' seniority, but less than one (1) year's seniority will be three (3) months. Lay-off coverage for employees with one (1) or more year's seniority will be six (6) months.
43
ARTICLE XVII, Section 1 e) Cont'd.
ii) In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he/she is employed for ten (10) working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
iii)	In addition, an employee who returns to work for at least one (1) working day and less than ten (10) working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any lay-off coverage to which he/she was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
f)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment.
g)	Coverage to be extended to dependents of regular employees including those dependents over the age of twenty-one (21), but not over the age of twenty-five (25) who are attending recognized educational institutions.
h)	Effective July 1st, 1982 a Vision Care Program be
instituted to provide for payment up to a maximum of i\ /'one hundred dollars ($100.00) per person in any jt{S ( y twenty-four (24) consecutive month period for charges £. incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription.

Section 2:	Insurance Coverage
It is agreed that a Health and Welfare Plan be instituted with the principles hereinafter set out:
a) Board of Trustees
CONIFER, together with the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, Forest Industrial Relations Limited, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Canfor Limited, Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA-CANADA agree to establish one (1) set of trustees for the purpose of developing a common text, a cannon trust agreement, and a common employee booklet for the six (6) Health and Welfare Plans, covering Life Insurance,
ARTICLE XVII, Section 2 a) Cont'd
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance and Weekly Indemnity.
b)	A Joint committee, representing CONIFER, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, Forest Industrial Relations Limited, Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd. , Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA-CANADA, will be established to study the most effective method of administration of the Plans, reporting to the Parties no later than July 1st, 1964.
c)	mwTPBP - Beard of Trustees
The Board of Trustees, composed of three (3) members representing IWA-CANADA and three (3) members representing CONIFER are responsible for the administration of the Northern Interior Forest Industry Benefit Plan. The Trustees are also responsible for the selection of carriers, funding, adjudication of compassionate appeals, and Health and Welfare problems directly related to the Plan.
The following coverage will be provided by the Company on an industry-wide basis with a common carrier.
7 / /
d)	Group Life Insurance for each qualified employee:	.S\jJL,
ft	Effective July 1, 1991	$45,000
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee:
/i V
$45,000	/
Weekly Indemnity for each qualified employee:
Effective July 1, 1991
i)
Effective July 1
$408
ii) Weekly Indemnity to commence the first day of accident and the sixth day of illness for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks.
ARTICLE XVII, Section 2 f) Cont'd
In the case of disability caused by non-occupational illness, Weekly Indemnity benefits will be payable commencing the first day of any such absence where the illness results in the claimant being hospitalized as a bed patient, and, in cases where surgery is
performed which necessitates loss of time From
work.
iv)
Weekly Indemnity coverage will be eliminated for an employee on all extended leaves of absence provided, however, that such employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity coverage on the day that it was agreed he/she was scheduled to return to work. In order to qualify for this coverage the employee must have returned to his/her place of residence in British Columbia unless his/her disability required him/her to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements of the claims adjudication carrier. In the case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurred during an extended leave cf absence, the Trustees have the right to review certain circumstances.
v)	Absences due to the same or related causes will be considered one (1) continuous absence unless the employee returns to work on a regular full-time basis for at least tour (4) continuous weeks between absences.
vi)	Third Party Subrogation
The parties agree to recommend to the Trustees of the Health and Welfare Plan that effective on the date of ratification of this Memorandum a third party subrogation clause be adopted so that the Weekly Indemnity Plan can be reimbursed
from damages recovered from a liable third party
for illness, injury or income loss. The Plan will be entitled to recover the full amount of benefits paid to the member which exceeds 1001 of the matter's pre-disability gross income. Gross income will be calculated by using the member's regular hourly job rate times (x) 40 hours. Trustees to work out the application and details, including the deduction of legal fees from the settlement and the execution of a reimbursement agreement.
46
ARTICLE XVII, Section 2 Cont'd
g)
Total cost of providing insurance coverage shall be borne by the Company.
h)	* Eligibility shall be the first of the month following date of completion of the employee's probationary period.
i)	Effective December 10th,	1983 employees who have
already qualified for the Disability Waiver will retain their eligibility for present coverage. Those employees who, on December 10th, 1983, are in receipt of Weekly Indemnity, W.C.B. wage loss or Long Team Disability income will continue to be eligible for the Group Life Disability Waiver that was in force prior to the above noted date.
After December 10th.	1983 the Group Life waiver of
premium clause will terminate at age sixty-five (65).
j)	Coverage will be portable for all employees covered by
collective agreements between members of CONIFER, Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, Weldvood of Canada Limited, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., and Canfor Limited, and the IWA-CANADA, and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the Industry.
k)	i) Lay-off coverage for employees with more than
three (3) month's seniority, but less than one (1) year's seniority will be three (3) months. Lay-off coverage for employees with one (1) or more year's seniority will be six (6) months.
ii) In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he/she is employed for ten (10) working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
ARTICLE XVII, Section 2 k) Cont'd
iii) In addition, an employee who returns to work for at least one (1) working day and less than ten (10) working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any lay-off coverage to which he/she was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
1)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment.
Section 3:	Dental Plan
A Dental Plan will be provided based on the following general principles:

a)
Basic dental services (Plan 'A')	- Plan pays 80% of
approved schedule of fees.
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
g)
Prosthetics, Crowns and Bridges (Plan ’B') - Plan pays 50% of approved schedule of fees.
Orthodontic (Plan 'C') - Plan pays 50% of approved schedule of fees. (Lifetime maximum - $2,000.00) No
waiting period required.
Total premium cost to be borne by the Company. /t? 1/
Eligibility shall be the first of the month following date of completion of the employee's probationary period.
Coverage will be portable for all employees covered by collective agreements between members of CONIFER, Forest Industrial Relations Limited, Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, Weldwood of Canada Limited, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Canfor Limited and the IWA-CANADA, and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the industry.
i)	Lay-off coverage for eligible employees with less than one (1) year's seniority will be three (3) months. Lay-off coverage for employees with one (1) or more year's seniority will be six (6) months.
ARTICLE XVII, Section 3 g) Cont'd
In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he/she is employed for ten (10) working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
In addition, an employee who returns to work for at least one (1) working day and less than ten (10) working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any lay-off coverage to which he/she was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
h)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment.
ARTICLE XVIII - PENSION PLAN
Section b
The Parties agree to establish a Pension Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement of the Pension Sub-Coamittee
section 2:
ii)
iii)
Effective July 1, 1992 the Plan will be funded by Employer contributions of two dollars and forty cents ($2.40) per hour per empl^ ‘ '
Effective July 1, 1993 Employee contributYbnfe bf ten cents ($0.10) per hour per employee per hour worked will be added to the above contribution rate.
ARTICLE XIX ~ LONG TERM DISABILITY
Effective July 1st, 1982 a Long Team Disability Plan be provided based on the following general principles:
a)	The Plan to become effective July 1st, 1982.
b)	The Plan to be funded on a fifty/fifty (50/50) cost
sharing basis with contributions of twenty cents ($0.20) per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute ten cents ($0.10) and the employee will contribute ten cents ($0.10) .
Effective July 1, 1993 contributions will be increased by an additional two cents ($0.02) per hour worked for a total of twenty-two cents ($0.22) per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute eleven cents ($0.11) per hour and the employee will contribute eleven cents ($0.11) per hour.
c)	A Board of Trustees will be constituted with equal representation from the Union and the Industry, to be responsible for establishing the terms of the Plan and the on-going administration.
d)	The Trustees will select a qualified actuary to assist them and to ensure the establishment of actuarially sound reserves to fund the benefits provided by the Plan.
e)	The Trustees will enter into a Trust Agreement which will include provision for a procedure to settle any major dispute that may arise with regard to the provisions of the Plan.
ARTICLE XX - JOB TRAINING
Job Training Program will be in accordance with Supplement NO. 3 which is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement.
Section 1:
a)	Apprenticeship Training Programs will be in accordance with Supplements No. 4A and 4B which are attached hereto and form part of this Agreement.
50
ARTICLE XXI, Section I Cont'd
b)	Fares, Lost Time Pay and School Expenses are to be paid
by the appropriate government authorities as part of the cost of the Apprenticeship Plan with the exception that the employer shall pay the apprentice while attending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Section 2: Apprenticeship Selection Tests
The Parties agree to meet with representatives of the British Columbia Apprenticeship Branch for the purpose of developing an appropriate test for applicants who bid for apprenticeship vacancies.
The test will be used to test applicants prior to selection in accordance with the Letter of Understanding titled 'Selection of Apprentice Procedure' dated December 17th, 1980. It is understood that the position will be awarded to the senior applicant who passes the test.
Section 3£
A Comnittee will be established to review and upgrade the Apprenticeship Training Program.
ARTICLE XXII - TRAVEL TIME	P5-
where applicable, employees in logging operations shall be paid at straight time rates for time spent on Company property in excess of eight and one-half (8 1/2) hours in any one day between leaving the designated marshalling point, to be agreed upon, and returning to said point, provided always that the said eight and one-half (8 1/2) hour period is based upon one-half (1/2) hour for lunch and may be extended to a maximum of a further fifteen (15) minutes where the lunch time exceeds one-half (1/2) hour.
- 51 -
ARTICLE XXIII - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE Section 1:	Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the Shop Comnittee and the Union not less than six (6) months in advance of intent to institute material changes in working methods of facilities which would involve the discharge or laying-off of employees.
Section 2:	Rate Adjustment
a)
An employee who is set back to a lover paid job because of mechanization, technological change or automation will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of
his/her new regular job will apply. However, such _	<
employee will have the option of terminating his/her £ employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 3 below, providing ne/sne exercises this option (Z within the above referred to six (6) month period.
b) Following an application of a) above, where an employee is set back to a lover paid job because of an application of Article VIII - seniority brought on by mechanization, technological change or automation he/she will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular jcb. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply.
section 3:	Severance Pay
Employees discharged, laid off or displaced from their regular jOD because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of one (1) week's pay for each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) week's pay. This Section shall not apply to employees covered by Section 2 b) above.
- 52 -
Section 1:
The Company shall replace such equipment at no cost to the employee when these articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair and when they are required by the Company or the Worker's Compensation Board:
1.	Aprons
2.	Hard Hats and Liners
3.	Eye. Ear and Nose Protective Equipment
Section 2:
Where the following articles of equipment are required to be used by the Workers’ Compensation Board, the Company shall, at no cost to the employee:
Supply new employees with the articles cf equipment as required.
Supply employees moving to another department with the articles of equipment they require and that they do not have at the time of the move, and
replace articles of equipment when those articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair.
That is to say:
1.	Aprons
2.	Hard Hats
3.	Eye, Ear and Nose protective equipment
4.	Gloves
i)
ii)
iii)
ARTICLE XXIV, Section 2 Cont'd
Notwithstanding the foregoing all articles of equipment to be replaced only when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair; otherwise the replacement will be at the expense of the employee.
Section 3:
Where a Company has been supplying safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date of this Agreement it will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
Section 4:
The employer shall make coveralls available and maintain same for use by End Sprayers, Panel Sprayers, Oilers, Filer-Grindermen, Power House employees, and Tradesmen.
Section 5:	Caulk Boots
An employee who is required to wear caulk boots by the Workers' Compensation Board shall receive annually a caulk boot allowance of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
£) If he/she has six (6) months' or more seniority, or
ii) Upon obtaining six (6)naxbhs.' seniority, ill) Seasonal lay-offs shall not interfere with the qualifying period herein.
ARTICLE XXV - TOOL INSURANCE
The Company at its own expense shall insure for damage or loss caused ky fire,or flood, the tools of its employees which are required in the performance of their work. This provision for tool insurance shall also apply to loss ky theft where the tools are stored In a designated place of safety within the control of the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of fifty dollars ($50.00) in respect of each aployee's claim.
Firefighting Agreement will be in accordance with Supplement No. 5 which is attached hereto and forms part '/%£ this Agreement.	S
ARTICLE XXVII - SAWMILL JOB EVALUATION Section E
a)	The Parties to this Agreement mutually agree to implement one job evaluation program for the sawmilling sector, effective September 1st. 1979 in accordance with the principles and procedures set out in a manual dated December 1971 and entitled 'Interior Sawmill Job Evaluation Manual' a8 amended July 1973 and a8 further amended July 1974; (but hereinafter referred to as the 8. C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Manual) and to exclude any categories not effected by Sawmill Job Evaluation.
b)	The attached Supplement No. 6 which provides for the administration of the program between the Parties to this Agreement shall fomn part of the collective agreement effective September 1st, 1979.
c)	The process of job evaluation will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the B. C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan which shall include the attached wage curve, the present manual, present guidelines for manual interpretation, existing and/or new Benchmarks, and existing gradings on record serving as a basis for subsequent evaluation unless amended as provided for in the Supplement No. 6.
d)	All categories and records shall stand as presently rate matched (job analysis) and/or evaluated in the Northern Interior operations involved in the B.C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan, except where requests are submitted for evaluation or re-evaluation consistent with the principles and procedures of the Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan.
Section 2:
The point range and increments for the twenty-seven (27)
groups in the Sawmill and Poleyard Wage Curve are as follows:
ARTICLE XXVII, Section 2 Cont'd.
Group
Level
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26 27
Points
0- 60 61- 70 71- 80 81- 95 96-115 116-140 141-165 166-195 196-230 231-270 271-320 321-370 371-420 421-470 471-520 521-570 571-620 621-670 671-730 731-790 791-850 851-910 911-970 971-1030 1031-1090 1091-1150 1151-1210
Effective July 1, 1991 Increm.	Rates
.07 .10 .13 .09 .15 .12 .19 .16 .17 .19 .20 .18 .20 .22 .24 .22 .21 .21 .26 .23 .24 . 26 .26 .52 .53 .59
$17.07
17.14
17.24
17.37
17.46
17.61 17.73
17.92
18.08
18.25 18.44 18.64 18.82 19.02 19.24 19.48 19.70 19.91 20.12
20.38
20.61 20.85 21.11 21.37 21.89 22.42 23.01
Effective July 1, 1993 Increm. Rates
$17.92
17.99
18.09 18.22 18.31
18.46 18.58 18.77
18.93
19.10 19.29 19.49 19.67 19.87 20.09 20.33 20.55 20.76 20.97 21.23
21.46 21.70 21.96 22.22 22.74 23.27 23.86
.07 .10 .13 .09 .15 .12 .19 .16 .17 .19 .20 .18 .20 .22 .24 . 22 .21 . 21 .26 .23 .24 .26 .26 .52 .53 .59
a) The base rate in all Wage Supplements shall be that set out in Section 1 b) of Article V - Wages, and shall be the minimum rate.
Incumbents in job categories for which the wage rate is reduced as a result of job evaluation (hereinafter referred to as 'Fed Circle Jobs') shall continue at the original rate.
c)	The Parties agree to work towards implementation of the
revised B.C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan by July 1, 1993.
Section 3:
ARTICLE XXVIII - PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
Section 1:	Implementation
The Plywood Job Evaluation program shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Supplement No. 7 which is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement.
Section 2:	Point Range and Increment
The point range and increments for the twenty-seven (27) groups in the Plywood wage curve are as follows:
Effective
Effective
Group
Level
July 1, 1991
Points Incren.	Rates
July 1, 1993 Increm.	Rates
1	0- 81
2	82- 91
3	92-101
4	102-111
5	112-121
6	122-131
7	132-141
8	142-151
9	152-161
10	162-171
11	172-181
12	182-191
13	192-201
14	202-211
15	212-221
16	222-231
17	232-241
18	242-251
19	252-261
20	262-271
21	272-281
22	282-291
23	292-301
24	302-311
25	312-321
26	322-331
27	332-341
.11
.13
.11
.18
.13
,19
.16
,17
.18
.18
.16
.19
.21
.18
.21
.21
.21
.21
.27
.29
.27
.27
.27
.28
.27
.28
$17.07
17.18 17.31
17.42
17.60 17.73 17,92 18.08 18.25
18.43
18.61
18.77 18.96 19.17 19.35
19.56
19.77 19.98
20.19 20.46 20.75 21.02 21.29
21.56 21.84 22.11 22.39
.11
.13
.11
.18
.13
.19
.16
.17
.18
.18
.16
.19
.21
.18
.21
.21
.21
.21
.27
.29
.27
.27
.27
.28
.27
.28
$17.92
18.03 18.16
18.27
18.45 18.58 18.77 18.93 19.10
19.28
19.46
19.62 19.81 20.02 20.20
20.41
20.62 20.83
21.04 21.31 21.60 21.87 22.14
22.41 22.69 22.96 23.24
ARTICLE XXVIII Cont'd
Section 3:	Red Circle Jobs
Incumbents in job categories for which the wage rate is reduced as a result of job evaluation (hereinafter referred to as ’red circle jobs') shall continue at the original rate subject to the provisions of the appropriate supplement (Plywood Job Evaluation, Article 10 - Red circle Jobs).
ARTICLE XXIX - POWERHOUSE TRAINING PROGRAM
A Coxrmittee shall be established during the term of the 1977-1979 Agreement to review the Powerhouse Training Program.
ARTICLE XXX - MEW CONCEPTS COMMITTEE
A Committee shall be established to study new concepts, including Industrial Democracy, of ways to improve labour management relations in the Northern Interior Forest Products Industry during the term of the 1977-1979 Agreement.
A Joint Committee to be established, consisting of two (2) members from the IWA-CANADA, and two (2) members from the Industry, to study the practicability of a Troubled Employee Program.
The Comnittee to report to the Parties no later than September 1st, 1980.
ARTICLE XXXII - FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
A Forestry Environmental Committee shall be established by the Company and the Local Union.
The details concerning the structure, operation and terms of reference must be agreed to by the Company and the Local Union prior to implementation.
- 58 -
ARTICLE XXXIII - DURATION OP AGREEMENT
section 1:
The Parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the first (1st) dav of July 1991 to , the thirtieth (30th) dav of June 1994,, and thereafter, from year to year unless ro (A) nonuis written notice of contrary intention is given by the Parties. The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the head office of the Party of the First Part or at the Local Office of the Local officers of the Union, Party of the second Part, at least four (4) months prior to the expiry of any yearly period. If no agreement is reached at the expiration of this contract and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time that a subsequent Agreement is reached, or until negotiations are discontinued by either Party.
section 2
The Parties hereto agree that the operation of Section 66, of Subsection (*2) of the Industrial Relations Act, is excluded from this Agreement.
DATED this #4 day Of S^af/L.
1992
FOR:
DOMTAR CHEMICALS GROUP, WOOD PRESERVING DIVISION
FOR:
IWA-CANADA, LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
- 59 -
SUPPLEMENT	1
WAGE SCALE
EVALUATED CATEGORIES
The individual Wage Scale applicable to this particular Agreement, when signed by Company and Union, shall be attached to this section.
NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES
Auto Mechanic Helper,
1st Year	$18,17
Auto Mechanic Helper.
2nd Year	18.435
Auto Mechanic Improver
1st Year	18.92
Auto Mechanic Improver
2nd Year	(1st	6	months)	19.47
Auto Mechanic Improver
2nd Year	(2nd	6	months)	20.255
Auto Mechanic	21.88
Auto Mechanic	- Certified	22.09
$19.02
19.285
19.77
20.32
21.105
22.73
22.94
Carpenter Helper, 1st Year	$18.17
Carpenter Helper, 2nd Year	18.435
Carpenter Improver, 1st Year	18.92
Carpenter Improver, 2nd Year (1st 6 months)	19.47
Carpenter Improver, 2nd Year (2nd 6 months)	20.255
Carpenter	21.88
Carpenter - Certified	22.09
$19.02
19.285
19.77
20.32
21.105
22.73
22.94
Supplement No. 1 Cont'd
July_.l/n July U23
Trades - Manufacturing Cont'd
Electrician Helper.
1st Year
Electrician Helper,
2nd Year
Electrician Improver,
1st Year
Electrician Improver,
2nd Year .(1st 6 months) Electrician Improver,
2nd Year (2nd 6 months) Electrician
Electrician - Certified
$18.17
18.435
18.92
19.47
20.42
22.065
22.275
Heavy Duty Mechanic Helper, 1st Year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Helper, 2nd Year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Imorover. 1st Year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 2nd Year (1st 6 months) Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 2nd Year (2nd 6 months) Heavy Duty Mechanic Heavy Duty Mechanic - Certified
$18.17
18.435
18.92
19.47
20.42
22.065
22.275
$19.02
19.285 19.77
20.32
21.27
22.915
23.125
$19.02
19.285 ’19.77
20.32
21.27
22.915
23.125
Machinist Helper,
1st Year	$18,265
Machinist Helper,	
2nd Year	18.525
Machinist Improver,	
1st Year	19.00
Machinist Improver	
2nd Year (1st 6 months)	19.56
Machinist Improver,	
2nd Year (2nd 6 months)	20.42
Machinist	22.065
Machinist - Certified	22.275
$19,115
19.375
19.85
20.41
21.27
22.915
23.125
Supplement No. 1 Cont'd
July 1/91
July 1/93
Trades - Manufacturing Cont'd.
Millwright Helper,
1st Year	$18.17
Millwright Helper,
2nd Year	18.435
Millwright Improver,
1st Year	18.92
Millwright Improver,
2nd Year	(1st	6	months)	19.47
Millwright Improver,
2nd Year	(2nd	6	months)	20.42
Millwright	22.065
Millwright - Certified	22.275
$19.02
19.285
19.77
20.32
21.27
22.915
23.125
Painter Helper,
1st Year	$18;17	$19.02
Painter Improver,
1st Year		18.525	19.375
Painter Improver,			
2nd Year (1st 6	months)	19.00	19.85
Painter Improver,			
2nd Year (2nd 6	months)	19.97	20.82
Painter		21.71	22.56
Painter - Certified		21.92	22.77
Steamfitter/Pipefitter Helper,
1st Year	$18.17
Steamfitter/Pipefitter Helper,
2nd Year	18.435
Steamfitter/Pipefitter Improver,
1st Year	18.92
Steamfitter/Pipefitter Improver,
2nd Year (1st 6 months)	19.47
Steamfitter/Pipefitter Improver,
2nd Year (2nd 6 months)	20.42
Steamfitter/Pipefitter	22.065
Steamfitter/Pipefitter
- Certified	22.275
$19.02
19.285
19.77
20.32
21.27
22-.915
23.125
Supplement no. 1 Cont'd
July 1/92
Trades
Manufacturing Cont'd
Welder
Welder - Certified
Welder - Certified & Qualified
$21.88
22.09
22.275
$22.73
22.94
23.125
MISCELLANEOUS fflMEBBfi&OSS
Grindernan oiler
2nd class Engineer 3rd Class Engineer 4th class Engineer Fireman (4th class Ticket)
$19.37
18.59
23.38
22.275
21.02
19.485
Fireman First Aid Man - Job Rate Plus	18.065
'C' Ticket	.30
'B * Ticket	.40
‘A1 Ticket	.50
'AA' Ticket	.60
Labourer	17.07
FILINS ROOM CATEGORIES
Saw Fitter, Helper
Saw Fitter -1st Year Completed Saw Fitter -last 6 months Saw Fitter
saw Fitter - with certificate
$18.17
18.66
19.865
21.71
21.92
$20122
19.44
24.23
23.125
21.87
20.335
circular Saw Filer Helper Circular Saw Filer
Circular Saw Filer - Certified
$21.92
22.065
22.275
$22.77
22.915
23.125
Benchman Helper Benchman
Benchman - with certificate
$22,275
22.75
22.96
$23,125
23.60
23.81
July 1/93
Auto Mechanic Helper,
1st Year
Auto Mechanic Helper.
2nd Year
Auto Mechanic Improver 1st Year
Auto Mechanic Improver
2nd Year (1st 6 months) Auto Mechanic ImDrover
2nd Year (2nd 6 months) Auto Mechanic Auto Mechanic - certified
$18.31
18.58
19.06
19.62
20.335
21.98
22.19
$19.16
19.43
19.91
20.47
21.185
22.83
23.04
Carpenter Helper, 1st Year	$18.31
Carpenter Helper, 2nd Year	18.58
Carpenter Improver, 1st Year	19.06
Carpenter Improver, 2nd Year (1st 6 months)	19.62
Carpenter Inprover, 2nd Year (2nd 6 months)	20.335
Carpenter	21.98
Carpenter - Certified	22.19
$19.16
19.43
19.91
20.47
21.185
22.83
23.04
Electrician Helper, 1st Year	$18.31
Electrician Helper, 2nd Year	18.58
Electrician Improver, 1st Year	19.06
Electrician Improver, 2nd Year (1st 6 months)	19.62
Electrician Improver, 2nd Year (2nd 6 months)	20.335
Electrician	21.98
Electrician - Certified	22.19
$19.16
19.43
19.91
20.47
21.185
22.83
23.04
Supplement Nb. 1 Cont'd
July 1/91 July 1/22
Trades - Logging Cont'd
Heavy Duty Mechanic Helper, 1st Year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Helper, 2nd Year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 1st Year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 2nd Year (1st € months) Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 2nd Year (2nd 6 months) Heavy Duty Mechanic Heavy Duty Mechanic - Certified
$18.31
18.58
19.06
19.62
20.495
22.155
22.365
$19.16
19.43
19.91
20.47
21.345
23.005
23.215
Machinist Helper,
1st Year	$18.31	$19.16
Machinist Helper,		
2nd Year	18.58	19.43
Machinist Improver,		
1st Year	19.06	19.91
Machinist Improver,		
2nd Year (1st 6 months)	19.62	20.47
Machinist Improver,		
2nd Year (2nd 6 months)	20.335	21.185
Machinist	21.98	22.83
Machnist - Certified	22.19	23.04
Welder	$21.98	$22.83
Welder - Certified	22.19	23.04
Supplement Nb. 1 Cont'd
LOGGING CATEGORY WAGE RATES
$17.29	$18.14
■^^nbourer
Bull Cook (Pays Board) Flunky (Pays Board) Watchman
Group HO. 2	$17.44	$18.25
Tree Planter
Sro.UP..,yg.i. 3	$17.61	$18.46
Group No. 4	$17.76	$18.61
Crummy Driver Log Bander
Swapper (Shovel, cat Grader)
Rock Driller-Helper (Grade construction)
Chain Man Chokerman
Group Mo. 5	$17.94	$18.79
Boom Man Boomstick Borer Compass Man
Group Ho. 6	$18.14	$18.99
Scaler (On Permit)
Pile Driver Helper Truck Driver (Utility)
Towboat Operator Assistant
- 66 -
Supplement No. 1 Cont'd
coaly 1/91
Logging Category Rates Cont'd
Hiab Truck Driver
General Service Truck Driver (3 to S ton) Powderman - W.C.B. Ticket (Grade construction) Limber Topper
Second Cook (Board Supplied)
Small Mobile Drill Operator (Grade Construction) Baker (Board supplied)
Group No. a	$18.56
Gravel Truck Driver Cat Operator - Under D6 Backhoe operator (Grade Construction) Front End Loader (Under 2 yards)
Boom or Dozer Boat Operator
Group No. 9	$18.79
Skidder Operator - Rubber Tired
Head Cook (Board Supplied) (Under 30 men)
Gradall operator
<5r<?W Wo, 10	$19.06
Front End Loader - 2 yard and over
Skidder Operator - Rubber Tired/with Grapple
Flail Delimber
Pile Driver operator
Cat Operator - D6
Road Grader Operator
Skidder Operator - Soft Tracks
July 1/93
$19.21
$19.41
$19.64
$19.91
Supplement No. 1 Cont'd
July 1/91	July 1/93
Logging Category Rates Cont'd.
$19.34	$20.19
Head Cook (Board Supplied) (30 men and over)
Rock Driller - W.C.B. Ticket (Grade Construction) Scaler (Licensed)
Towboat Operator
Truck Driver - Trailer Rig (8 to 11 foot bunks) Truck Driver - Low Bed
Cat Operator - D7 (Grade Construction and Logging) Skidder Operator - Soft Tracks/with Grapple
$19.67	$20.52
Tree Shearer Operator
Shovel Operator (Grade Construction)
Truck Driver - Trailer Rig (12 foot bunks and over) Bucker Tree Length
Group No. 13	$20.02	$20.87
Heel Boom Operator/Hydraulic or Tongs Front End Log Loader/Woods
cat operator - D6 (Grade construction and Logging)
Group NO. 14	$20.38	$21.23
Group NO. 15	$20.76	$21.61
Cat Operator D9 (Grade Construction and Logging)
Feller Buncher Operator
Crane or Heel Boom Operator/with Grapple Bucker Log Length Sample Bucker
$21.12	$21.97
Grapple Yarder operator
- 68
Supplement No. 1 Cont'd
July_l/91
July 1/93
Logging Category nates Cont'd
Miscellaneous
Faller/Bucker Faller/Bucker towns and maintains saws)
Truck Driver - Trailer Rig Pup Trailers Pre-load Trailers Chargehand First Aid Man
'C' Ticket 'B' Ticket ‘A1 Ticket 'AA' Ticket
$28.32	$29.17
18.00/day	18.00/day
Truck rate plus 40 cents per hour Truck rate plus 20 cents per hour Job rate plus 25 cents per hour Job rate plus:
30
40
50
60
30
40
50
60
a)	The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circled jobs, the said list to include the name cf the job category filled, the negotiated rete for the job and the actual rate paid.
b)	Employees on red circle rate who are promoted to a higher group shall regain the red circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher group.
cj Employees holding red circle jobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the negotiated rate for the job to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is reassigned to his/her former job he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
d)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company, he/she shell retain his/her existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to his/her regular job the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
Supplement No. 1 Cont'd
July. 1/91	July 1/93
Logging category Rates Cont'd
OPERATIONAL CATEGORIES
group NOr	$	$18.14	$18.99
Camp Utility Man Tallyman
Group No.	8	$18.56	$19.41
Warehouseman
group »0,	11	$19.34	$20.19
Road Grader Operator (No. 16 Cat) (Grade Construction) Ferry Operator
- 70 -
SUPPLEMENT HO. 2
ADJUSTMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS
In connection with the interpretation of certain clauses in the contract between IWA-CANADA and certain Interior Operators, the following interpretations of the Contract have been agreed upon:
Section 1:
With respect to the definition of the two categories Lumber grader and Boomman, the following is agreed upon:
Lumber Grader: Boomnan:
Section 2:
One who grades for shipment
One who makes up or breaks down booms or who grades logs.
a) With respect to call-time as covered in Article VII, Section 7 or Section 8, the following understanding has been reached.
If workers present themselves for work, and due to any conditions beyond their control, there is no work available they shall receive two hours' pay unless sufficient warning has been given cancelling the work call for that day. However, if there is a possibility that work may be available within two (2) hours of the regular starting time, the employer nay request employees to stay at their place of employment during the call-time period.
In the case of logging camp employees, the interpretation of call-time shall be as follows:
Employees will not be deemed to have been called for work if they do not leave the camp or the assembly point except those employees using their own naans of transportation who present themselves for work not having sufficient warning.
Supplement Ho. 2, Section 2 a) Cont'd
Sawmill employees being transported by Company vehicle shall be covered by the above clause.
b)	It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been
given cancelling the work call €or the first or day shift, provided notice has been given over the appropriate local radio station(s), wherever possible the previous evening but not later than one and one-half (1 1/21 hours before shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour (1/2) period. It shall be deemed sufficient notice cancelling call for work for night-shift when notice has been given over the appropriate local radio station(s), during the hours 12 noon to 1 p.m., but not later than three (3) hours before shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour (1/2) period. The above shall apply only within a thirty (30) mile radius of Prince George.
Section 3:
Interpretation of Article VIII, Section 2 c)
This section means that the application of seniority as it is presently applied in the individual plant would remain in effect unless it is or has been changed by agreement between the Company and the Union.
The word 'plant' in this section means a sawmill, a planer mill or a logging operation.
It is agreed that the foregoing understanding shall be of the same force and effect as if they had been written into the actual contract and this Section of Adjustment and Interpretation shall form Supplement Ho. 2 and be part of the Contract.
JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS
A.	APPLICATION
I.	The following principles are intended as a guide and basis for negotiations of training programs at the operational level between the Company and Local Union.
B.	POSTING
2.	Training positions to be posted for a minimum period of two (2) consecutive working days.
3.	An employee absent on approved leave of absence, lay-off, illness or accident at the time a Trainee position is posted, will be allowed to make application within three (3) working days of his/her return, but in no event later than fourteen (14) calendar days of the posting of such Trainee position. However, such employee may make application through a Job Steward or by written notice to the Company while he/she is away on leave of absence.
C.	SELECTION AND TRAINING
4.	Selection of trainees to be on the basis of seniority, as provided for in Article VIII c£ the Collective Agreement.
5.	The Company should select a qualified person to provide the training with due regard to ability to communicate effectively.
Supplement Ho. 3 Item C Cont'd
6.	The Company to notify the Plant committee in writing when a trainee is judged to be qualified, or if he/she is removed from the training program because of incompetence.
D
RATES
7
OF
PAY
Rates of pay to apply to trainees during the training period to be their regular job rate. except that they shall not receive more than the established rate for the job for which they are being trained, and subject to appropriate exceptions fOf piece work employees.
B. SENIORITY
8
sniori 1 c rticle \	3 of
se iaj e	y
? i J f
w
e
v
of
the < n< e	is of
Co e: :t ^gx	with
iei necessary to deal with ±	tion.
9. If, during the training period, the trainee wishes to discontinue training, or fails to qualify, he/she should return to the job previously held by hin/her.
F. REVISION AND TERMINATION
10. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to vary, cancel, or otherwise affect existing training agreements.
- 74 -
SUPPLEMENT HQ. 4A
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM between
COUNCIL ON NORTHERN INTERIOR FOREST EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS (CONIFER)
and
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424
in co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP 4 INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
ARTICLE T - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledge and skill c£ persons employed by the Cospany as Journeymen, Improvers and Helpers in respect of trades named in Article XI herein.
ARTICLE II - TRADES
Millwrights
Heavy Duty Mechanics
Steamfitter/Pipefitter
Machinist
Electrician
Welder
4 year program 4 year program 4 year program 4 year program 4 year program to be established
Supplement No. 4A Cont'd.
ARTICLE III ~ GEHERAL PRINCIPLES
Section 1:	Collective Agreement
All provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this Program.
Section 2:	Right to continue
Once started in the Program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he/she passes all of the prescribed tests and work is available to him/her.
Section 3:	Tests
Upon completion of each period of training in the vocational school, an Apprentice will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice will be given a second (2nd) opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second (2nd) such test, he/she shall be required to withdraw from the Program.
Section 4s Meaning of 'Year'
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Improver it shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (2 00) working days; the said period to include time spent at the vocational school.
Section 5:	Training Time Entitlement
Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice who is hired by the Company and who has had training in another apprenticeship plan will be given recognition of such training time.
Section 6:	On-theJob Raining
The Company will ensure that Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training.
Supplement Nb. 4A cont'd
Section 1:	Seniority
When the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII of the Collective Agreement.
Section 2:	Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned as Helpers for a three (3) month probationary period, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
Section 3:	Entrance Standards
Entrance to the Program will in all cases be subject to the applicant meeting the standards required for acceptance by the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
Section /; Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpers and Inprovers employed by the Company must enter the Program. Helpers and Inprovers who cannot qualify in this Program will be reclassified as Labourers with no reduction i n rate of pay until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain a job with equal or a higher rate of pay.
Section 5 Age Lisit
There will be no age limit for applicants.
Supplement No. 4A Cont'd.
ARTICLE V - TRAINING SCHEDULES
Section 1:	Assignment as Helper
Ail successful applicants, except Welder Apprentices (see appropriate appendix), will be registered as Apprentices and be assigned as Helpers for an eleven (11) month period, prior to attending vocational school, unless the applicants' previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
A program for the aforementioned Welder Apprentices will be established by June 1st. 1968.
Section 2. 4-Year Schedule
Rating At Operation
At school
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year
Helper
Helper
Improver
Improver
first XI months first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
section 3:	3-Year Schedule
Rating At Operation
ftt Sshaal
First Year Helper Second Year Improver Third Year Improver
first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Section 4:	Electricians
Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 2 and 3 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shall be required to take eight (8) weeks at school during each year of the Program instead of four (4) with the period in the operation reduced accordingly.
Supplement No. 4A, Article V Cont'd
Section 5:	Passing Test
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribed test before promotion from Helper to Improver.
Section 6:	Journeyman Qualifications
"Subject to the conditions of this Section as listed below it is agreed that following completion of the period of required training and upon becoming certified, the journeyman shall receive the certified journeyman's rate of py.'
Conditions under which the above will apply:
a)	only to a journeyman who has gone through the indentured apprenticeship training program under the sponsorshipof the Company for which he/she is working.
b)	That he/she is working in the maintenance department.
c)	That all work normally done by the maintenance department is being performed by the persons employed in the maintenance department.
d)	That nothing in this clause shall prohibit the laying off of journeymen, helpers or apprentices if they are not required.
e)	That a journeyman may, when facing lay-off, choose to exercise his/her seniority into categories outside of the maintenance area at the job rate if his/her seniority and ability entitle him/her to do so.
Section vocational school Delay
If any of the periods provided for in Sections 2, 3, or 4 herein are exceeded by reason of vocational school facilities being unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements.
79
Supplement Nb. 4A
ARTICLE VI - WAGE
section 1:	Rates and Increments
a)	wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement.
b)	An Apprentice who passes his/her test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during this second (2nd) term year as a Helper.
c)	The Wage Rate for an Improver shall be that as specified in the Wage Supplement.
d)	An Apprentice who passes a test in the fourth (4th) period of vocational training . shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his/her second term as an Improver.
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen, and who are certified as such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade as agreed to between the Company and the Union.
Section 2:	Expenses
Fares, Lost Time Pay and School Expenses are to be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as part of the cost of the Apprenticeship Plan, with the exception that the employer shall pay the Apprentice while attending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted^ by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular J *ges of the employee concerned.
The employer's contribution for the latt two (2) weeks at school will be paid upon the employee's return to work.
Section 3:	Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one of the tests under this Program, through no fault of his/her own, the delay shall not prejudice his/her right to wage increments provided for in Section 1 herein.
Supplement No. 4A Cont'd.
ARTICLE VII - ADVISORY BOARD
Section 1 Constitution
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two (2) representatives of the Industry: two (2) from the Union, one (1) representing the Vocational School and one (1) from the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
Section 2 Responsibility
The Board shall be responsible for advising the Department of Labour, Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch regarding the content of tests, standards of marking and the school curriculum with respect to the registered Apprentices.
The Board shall not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests.
ARTICLE VTTT - CRMERAT, PBOVTSTOHS
Section 1:
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 2:
Persons employed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesmen Qualification Exam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 3:
If a present Journeyman fails to pass the test for a voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification Certificate, he/she can then become indentured as an Apprentice at no reduction in rate of pay.
Supplement No. 4A, Article VIII Cont'd
Section 4:
There will be a three (3) man committee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen’s Qualification, or who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen’s Qualification Act. The committee will also determine what vocational training is necessary for persons indentured as Apprentices. Representation on the committee shall consist of the following:
a)	One (1) representative from the Union
b)	One (1) representative from the Industry
c)	One (1) representative from the Apprenticeship Branch.
Vocational training will be conducted during day courses. Textbooks and study material will be made available when required.
ARTICLE IX - TOOLS
section 1:
All Journeymen tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for the Journeyman rate, unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the Journeyman.
Section 2:
The Improver shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of building up the necessary tools to equip himself/herself for the job.
Section 1
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools, and shall use those designated to him/her. However, in his/her own interest he/she should commence the process of building up a tool ld.t.
BETWEEN:	COUNCIL ON NORTHERN INTERIOR FOREST EMPLOYMENT
RELATIONS (CONIFER)
AND:	IWA-CANAOA, LOCAL 1-424 C.L.C.
1.	Plan %A' - Saw Fitter's Apprenticeship Training program
To cover the trade of the Saw Fitter which is defined as follows:
To be competent to fit all types of saws, bandsaws, gang saws, chain saws, etc.
a)	Operate, repair and adjust all saw sharpening equipment and tools.
b)	Basic techniques in welding of saws
c)	Maintain guides and water lines
d)	Basic techniques in benching of circular saws, slashers and trim saws.
Note:	It is agreed that the Parties will not use the
training progran to change the jcb content of the jobs of the present saw fitters.
Plan 'B' - Circular Saw Filer Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of a circular Saw Filer which is defined as follows:
Supplement Nb. 4B, Item 1 Cont'd
Must be a qualified saw Fitter and be competent to bench all circular and gang saws (tensioning, weld cracks and weld on teeth): be able to repair and maintain all filing room equipment: also must have a working knowledge of allied mill equipment, only as it applies to his/her job.
Plan 'C' - Benchman Apprenticeship Raining Program
To cover the trade of a Benchman which is defined as follows:
Must be a qualified saw Fitter and circular saw Filer, in addition be able to bench circular and band saws. Must have a working knowledge of all allied sawmill machinery including the lining up of head rigs and grinding of band wheels.
2.	The Parties agree that the object of the above Plans is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed as filers and fitters in the Industry.
3.	The normal period of training will be:
Safety is an important part of the training program as outlined below:	as such, it forms an integral part of
each phase of the program.
a)	Saw Fitters
Pre-apprenticeship Training - In-plant three (3) months.
1st term:	a) 3 weeks at school;
depending on class size -then writes an examination.
b)	11 months
training.
in-plant
Supplement No. 4B, Item 3 a) Cont'd
b)
c)
2nd tern:	a)	3 weeks at school - then
writes an examination,
b)	8 months in-plant
training.
3rd tern?	a)	3 weeks at school - then
writes an examination -if he/she passes the test, he/she	becomes
certified as	a Saw
Fitter.
Circular Saw Filers
Must spend a minimum of three (3) months in-plant training as an apprentice Circular Saw Filer.
1st tern:
2nd term:
a)	4	weeks at	school, then
writes an exaoination.
b)	8	months	in-plant
training.
a)	2	weeks at	school, then
writes an examination. If he/she passes the test, he/she becomes a Certified Saw Filer.
BenchBan
Must spend a minimum of three (3) months in-plant training as an apprentice Benchman.
1st term:	a)	3 weeks at school, then writes an examination.
	b)	XX months in-plant training.
2nd term:	a)	2 weeks at school, then writes an examination.
		If he/she passes the test, he/she becomes a
Certified Benchman.
Supplement No. 4B, Item 3 c) Cont'd
Note: The above periods of in-school training nay be altered by mutual agreement, subject to the experience in the Industry and in consultation with the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Education.
4.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement will be
applicable to apprentices in the Plan.
5.	Once started in this Flan, the apprentice, subject
however to the provisions of the Collective Aigreement, will have the right to continue in any one (1) program providing he/she passes all of the prescribed tests and work being available to him/her.
6.	a) Upon completion of each period of training in
the Vocation School, an apprentice saw Fitter will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the apprentice saw Fitter will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test he/she will be required to withdraw from the Plan. Any Saw Fitter apprentice who fails to qualify at any stage in the Program will be allowed to apply his/her seniority as it is applied in a lay-off. On completion of the third period of training in Vocational School an apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to pass a test. On passing the test he/she will become a Certified Saw Fitter.
b)	On completion of the first period of training in vocational School an apprentice Circular saw Filer will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test the apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he/she will be required to withdraw from the Program and return to the position of a Saw Fitter.
86
Supplement Us. 4B, Item 6 b) Cont'd
on completion of the second period of training in Vocational School an apprentice circular Saw Filer will be required to pass a test. On passing the test, he/she will become a certified circular Saw Filer. In the event that he/she fails to pass the test, he/she will be given a second opportunity. If he/she passes the test on the second occasion he/she becomes a certified Circular Saw Tiler. Should he/she fail to pass the test on the second occasion he/she will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that of a saw Fitter.
c)	Upon completion of the first period of training in Vocational School an apprentice Benchman will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test the apprentice Benchman will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second test, he/she will be required to withdraw frcm the progran and return to the position of a Circular Saw Filer.
On completion of the second period of training in vocational School an apprentice Benchman will be required to pass a test. On passing the test he/she will become a Certified Benchman. In the event that he/she fails to pass the test, he/she will be given a second opportunity. If he/she passes the test on the second occasion he/she becomes a Certified Benchman. Should he/she fail to pass the test on the second occasion he/she will be required to Withdraw froa the program and return to the position previously held, that of a Circular Saw Filer.
7.	Wherever reference is made to a year as an Apprentice,
it will aean a period of not less than two hundred (ZOO) working days, the said period to include tine spent at the Vocational School. in the event a participant works less than two hundred (ZOO) days and has attended Vocational School within the year, he/she nay be given the opportunity to take the required test.
Supplement Ho. 4B Cont'd
8.	Subject to the provisions herein, an apprentice will be
entitled to recognition of training time in the Plan in the event of his/her moving from one employer in the Industry to another.
SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
a)	Present trainees who are employed full-time, will be indentured in the Program.
b)	Upon entering the filing room, spares will be indentured into the apprenticeship program subject to the limitations of General Principles, Point 5 contained herein.
c)	Subject to General Principles, Point 5 trainees will be allowed to complete their program to meet the requirements cf the operation in which they work.
d)	Saw Fitter Apprentices:	it is agreed that the vacancy
will be posted, in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII -seniority.
e)	Circular Saw Filer Apprentices:	It is agreed that the
vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article VIII - Seniority. Applicants must be Certified saw Fitters.
f)	Benchman Apprentices:	It is agreed that the vacancy
will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article VIII - Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Circular Saw Filers.
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers, and Benchmen employed in the Industry who do not wish to become certified shall not have their seniority rights prejudiced through lack of certification.
Supplement No. 4B, Certification of Present Tradesmen Cont'd
Present saw Fitters, circular saw Filers and Sertchnen will have the right to write a qualifying examination in their respective classification. If they pass the examination they shall receive the appropriate certified rate. If they fail the examination they shall be slotted into the appropriate apprenticeship program with the view to upgrading and eventually becoming certified. Should they fail as par the steps outlined in 6 a) , b) or c), they will be subject to the provisions outlined therein.
Present tradesmen, who write the Tradesmen Qualification Examination will be tested on the basis of the job content of the present jobs in the filing room in which they work.
ADVISORY BOARD
1.	There will be an Advisory Board consisting of two (2) representatives of the Industry, two (2) from the Union, one (1) representing the Vocational School and one (1) from the Apprenticeship Branch.
2.	The Board will be responsible for advising the appropriate school authorities, Departmentof Education and Department of Labour regarding the content of tests, standards of marking and the school curriculum.
3.	The Board will not be responsible for the actual setting or narking of tests.
89
OUTLINE OF THE FILER' S AND FITTER'S TRAINING PROGRAM
1st Term:
Fitting bandsaws and gangs
Fitting Circular saws
Weeks Work Involved
3	Reasons for swage.
Swage and shaper adjustment.
Reasons for crumble, etc. Tooth profile Tooth alignment.
Sharpener operation.
Setting and sharpening of cut off saws.
Automatic and hand gumming.
Swaging, shaping and sharpening circular, and rip saws.
Automatic and hand sharpening.
Spring set circular rip saws.
Sharpening and retoothing.
Inserted tooth cut off and rip.
Grinding wheels
instruction of types, dressing, etc.
2nd Term:
Review of 1st year school 3	As 1st year
training
Repair and adjust equipment used by a fitter
90
Filer's & Fitter's Training Program, Fitter's 2nd Term Cont'd
Instruction Breakdown Weeks
Wfir&-IftV.Qlygfl
All phases of filing room welding (acetylene) Theory and practical
All phases of chainsaw filing
Gauge setting Flame adjustment Tip size Torch handling Penetration Welding cracks
Carbide (tipping and dressing	Preparing seats
only)	Brazing in carbide
Teeth - dressing
3rd Term:
Review 2nd team	3
Preliminary circular saw
tensioning
anvil instruction
Capable of haanering slashers, trim saws
Guide maintenance on bandsaws straight and pressure.
Shear board setting Wheel scrapers Water lines
Welding
Leveling,
plumbing
Theory
Point build up Tooth replacement Benching of welds
Filer's & Fitter's Training Program Cont'd. Instruction Breakdown Weeks Work Involved CIRCULAR SAW FILER'S APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
1st Tern:
To become proficient in 4 hammering all circular saws, rip and cut-off used in sawmill and planer
Level and tension, plumb
All circular saws including hollow ground, (theory 108 cut off).
Thin edgers Carbide double arbour Review of Basic Shop Mathematics
2nd Term:
Benching gang saws	2
stretcher roll and heat
Filing room machine maintenance Be able to maintain and repair all filing room equipment.
Leveling
back.
Check tabs Theory
tension
and
Trouble shooting of Circular Saw machinery.
Filer's & Fitter's Training Program Cont'd
Benclman Apprenticeship Program
1st Term-
Complete bandsaw	3
Bench work (roll stretcher and heat)
strain calculations Welding
Learn alignment of mill machines.
Head rig, edger, resaws, trim, cut-o££, etc.
Band mill Wheel Grinding
2nd Term:
Saw Capacity Study	2
Feeds, tooth bite, gullet capacity saw speeds.
Tooth spacing (Circular and band)
Trouble shooting.
Work Involved
Bench bandsaws in entirety.
Stretcher roll and heat.
Further training. Theory
Theory
- 93 -
SUPPLEMENT MO. S
FIREFIGWING AGREEMENT
The following terms and conditions shall be applicable for the duration of the current Collective Agreement during 'Company Responsibility Fires'.
It is understood that the terms of this Agreement only apply to the employees in the employ of the Company at the time the fire started. Any person hired for firefighting after the start of the fire will work under the rates and conditions as required by the B. C. Forest Service.
1. DEFINITIONS
a)	Accidental Fire
Any fire not deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, and which requires active measures to extinguish.
b)	Slash Escape Fire
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which has escaped the pre-determined boundaries and requires active measures to extinguish.
c)	slash Control Fire
Any slash fire ignited	by	the Company which is
contained within the pre-determined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control and does not require active measures as contemplated in a) and b) above.
d)	Company Responsibility	Fire
Any fire which the Company is responsible for taking measures to extinguish pursuant to the provisions of the Forest Act.
- 94
Supplement No. 5, Item 1 Cont'd.
e)	Forest Service Fire
Any fire in respect of which the B. c. Forest Service accepts responsibility for direction of measures to extinguish.
f)	Fire Fighting Rates
The rates of pay for fighting company Responsibility Fires hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
g)	Regular Job Rates
Rates of pay to employees for the perfomiances of their regular jobs, as set out in the Wage Supplement of the Collective Agreement.
h)	statutory Rates
Rates of pay established by B. C. Forest Service for fire fighting.
2.	COMPANY CONTROLLED TIMBER
a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Company employees to fight fire on Company controlled timber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled timber which is threatening Company controlled timber, the Company will pay those employees at the fire fighting rates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement.
b)	Where the B.C. Forest Service directs the Company to provide its employees for fighting fires in circumstances other than those set out in a) above, those employees will be paid at the statutory rates.
Supplement No. 5 Cont'd
3
FIRE FIGHTING RATES
b)
c)
d)
The basic rate shall be the base rate shown in the Collective Agreement and shall apply to all employees engaged in fighting Company Responsibility Fires except those performing one of the following fire fighting jobs:
Category
July 1/91	July 1/93
Crew Boss Cat Operators Skidder Operators Power Saw Operators Mechanics
Slip-on Tank and/or Trailer Tank with Pump Driver Op.
Water Tank Truck with Pump Driver Op. Service Truck/Bus Drivers Pumpman
$18.41	$19.26
18.37	19.22
18.01	18.86
17.92	18.77
Regular job rate
18.17	19.02
17.72	18.57
17.65	18.50
17.69	18.54
Straight time rates will apply to all employees throughout the period during which the said employees are engaged in fire fighting. This shall not include cook and bunkhouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanics, or other categories servicing, feeding or supplying fire fighters from areas removed from the area of the fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day in question are exclusively related to fire fighting operations.
Regular job rates will apply only for the duration of the regular production shift in which the fire started.
Where employees are working in job classifications during Eire fighting, other than those set out herein, job rates will apply.
- 96
Supplement No. 5 Cont'd
4.	BOARD AND LODGING	(While fighting Company
Responsibility Fires)
a)	Employees who commute from home or camp are expected to ’carry a lunch’. Additional meals where required will be at Company expense.
b)	Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
c)	Employees living in fly caraps will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
5.	TRAVEL TIME
Travel time for employees engaged in fire fighting will be paid in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
6.	SLASH BURNING
All employees engaged in patrolling or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regular job rate and overtime conditions will apply.
7.	INTERPRETATIVE NOTES
a)	When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtime conditions for fire patrol will revert to the no^nal conditions provided for in the Collective Agreement.
b)	The meaning of the word ’extinguish’ as used in this agreement shall include the act or process of suppression to the point when the fire requires fire patrolmen only.
6. All provisions of the Collective Agreement except as amended or modified herein shall continue to apply.
SUPPLEMENT NO. $
B. C. NORTHERN INTERIOR SAWMILL & POLEYARD JOB EVALUATION PLAN
Article 1 - Principles ft Procedures
The Parties to this Agreement mutually agree to implement and administer a job evaluation program for the Northern Interior sawmilling sector, effective September 1st, 1979, in accordance with the principles and procedures adopted in the British Columbia Northern Interior Sawmill & Poleyard Job Evaluation Manual (hereinafter referred to as the 'Manual'). Guidelines for manual interpretation and gradings on record will serve as the basis for subsequent evaluation consistent with any future decisions rendered by the Industry Standing Committee.
Article 2 - industry Standing Comlttea
There shall be a Standing Committee constituted and named the B. C. Northern Interior Industry Standing Committee to consist of one (1) designated representative of CONIFER, one (1) designated representative of Horthwood, one (1) designated representative of the Canfor/Takla Group, one (1) designated representative of the Babine/Houston Group, and two (2) or more designated representatives of IWA-Canada.
The E. c. Northern Interior Industry Standing Committee shall provide general oversight of the operation of the Plan with responsibility of:
a)	Resolving all job evaluation problems referred by the Sawmill Evaluation committee.
b)	Resolving any other job evaluation matters involving the job evaluation plan which fall within its jurisdiction.
Supplement Nb. 6 Cont'd.
Article 4 - Industry Job Evaluation Committee
a)	Each company participating in the B. C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan shall designate an evaluator to be its member representative to the Industry Job Evaluation Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Sawmill Job Evaluation Committee) and IWA-CANADA shall designate one (l) member representative.
b)	Wherever possible the efforts by the members of the Sawmill Job Evaluation Committee may be consolidated for practical purposes.
Article 5 - Function of Sawmill Evaluation Committee
a)	The Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall assume general responsibility for the uniform administration of the job evaluation program in accordance with Article 3 of this Supplement.
b)	The unanimous decision of the said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
Article 6 - Plant Job Review Comittee
a) There shall be a committee constituted in each Sawmill Plant named the Plant Job Review Committee (hereinafter referred to as 'Review Ccranittee') to consist of two (2) members representative of Management and two (2) members representative of the employees. At least one (1) representative of Management must be a member of the Plant's salaried Staff or Management, and at least one (1) representative of the employees must be an employee of the Plant whose job is subject to Sawmill Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed at the plant, and the Union may do likewise except that neither party may choose as its representative a member of the sawmill Evaluation Committee or any person who is employed as a job evaluator by the company or by IWA-CANADA.
99
Supplement No. 6, Article 6 Cont'd
b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly-paid
employees for time lost from his/her regular work schedule while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, regarding his/her own job, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly-paid employees.
Article 7 - Function of Review Comittee
a)
b>
c)
The Review Committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee for further action. The documents required will include a 'Request for Job Evaluation' form submitted either by an individual employee or by local management, and a fully completed 'Jcb Study Record' form which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of the Sawmill Evaluation Committee. The form of the Documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them and the time limits for completion may be amended as required by the Sawmill Evaluation Committee in accordance with Article 5 of this Supplement.
Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request for evaluation or re-evaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limit, the Review Committee shall at the request of any one of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement to the sawmill Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
When the Sawmill Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job it shall communicate that decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committee that an
100 -
Supplement No. 6, Article 7 c) Cont'd
Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee, will, similarly, be coxnnunicated with reasons to those concerned.
d)	Nothing in the A-ticla limits the right of the sawmill
Evaluation Committee to determine the facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend any job description or grading sheet submitted to them in support of a Request for Job Evaluation fom.
article a - Application of Proarm
The job evaluation program shall apply to all hourly paid employees in the B. C. Northern Interior Sawmill industry except those categories listed below:
Millwright
Machinist
Blacksmith
Welder
Pipefitter - including Sprinklemnan
Mechanics
Electrician
Painter
Carpenter
Bricklayer
Steamfitter
Boilermaker
saw Filers, Fitters, Benchmen and Helpers Engineers (Boiler House)
Firemen (Boiler House)
Grinderman
Oiler
and Improvers and Helpers to the above trades.
Article 9 - Direction of Work
Job Evaluation descriptions are written with the inter o set forth the general duties and requirements of the job a shall not be construed as imposing any restriction on the -it Of the Company to create a new job or to assign du	s to
employees other than those specifically mentioned job descriptions, provided always that if the assignment such
Supplement No. 6, Article 9 Cont'd.
duties changes the job content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure set out herein.
Article 10___Re Evaluation
a)	When a job has moved to a higher group as a result of re-evaluation, the resulting rate shall be retroactive from the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation.
b)	When a job i s moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his/her job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of Article 12 herein.
Article 11 - Hew Jobs Created
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a new jab,
a temporary rate shall be set by Management.
a)	When the evaluated rate for a new job is higher than the temporary rate, the resulting rate shall be retroactive from the date that the job was installed.
b)	When the evaluated rate for a new job is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbent(s) shall continue the temporary rate.
Article 12 - Red circle Protection
a)	The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circled jobs, the said list to include the name of the employee, name of the job category filled, the evaluated rate for the job, and the actual rate paid.
b)	Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher rate shall regain the red circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
Supplement Nd. 6, Article 12 Cont'd
c)	Employees holding red circle jobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces. shall be paid only the evaluated rate for the job to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is reassigned to his/her former job he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
d)	When the Company terminates a job, or a job is not occupied during a period of one (1) year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established.
e)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company he/she shall retain his/her existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to his/her regular job the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
Article 13 - Seniority
Subject to the provisions herein set out, Article VIII seniority of this Agreement shall continue to apply.
Article 1« - Referral Procedure
a)	When the Sawmill Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review Committee.
b)	When an employee's request for re-evaluation results in no change being nade in the job grade, or in a reduction, or when a Management request results in no change or in an increase, the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall give to the appropriate Review Committee a short statement of the reasons for the decision. m e statement should not go into great detail: but should indicate the criteria used in sufficient depth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
Supplement Nb. 6, Article 14 Cont'd
c)	An evaluation done by the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the parties, but at any time after five (5) years since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of a job, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
d)	If the Sawmill Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the job evaluation program which falls within their jurisdiction the matter shall be referred to the B. C. Northern Interior Industry Standing Committee for settlement.
e)	All communication between any Plant Review Committee and the Sawmill Evaluation Committee referred to above shall be effective by sending one (1) copy to the Union representative or representatives on the Committee and one (1) copy to the Employer representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of the appropriate Union local. In the case of communications to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee, the Union representative will be addressed care of the offices of IWA-CANADA and the employer representative care of the offices of the Company. The employer representative will then designate their evaluator regarding the disposition of any request for job evaluation.
Article 15 - Training Prooraa
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by those companies included and the IWA-CANADA in the B. C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan.
- 104 -
SUPPLEMENT NO. 7
PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
Article 1 * Principles and Procedures
The implementation and administration of the job evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles and procedures set out in a Manual dated September, 1955 and entitled 'Job Evaluation Manual for Operational Hourly Paid Jobs in the Plywood Industry of British Coluxrbia' as amended July, 1966 and as further amended April, 1971 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Manual').
Article a - Industry Job Evaluation Oonlttae
There shall be a committee constituted and named the Industry Job Evaluation Committee (hereinafter referred to as the 'Plywood Evaluation Committee ) to consist of one (1) member representative of CONIFER and one (1) member representative of IWA*CANADA.
Article 3 - Function of Plywood Evaluation Comittee
a)	The Plywood Evaluation Committee shall assume general responsibility for the administration of the job evaluation program.
b)	The unanimous decision of the said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
Article 4 - Plant Job Review Comittee
a)	There shall be a committee constituted in each plywood
plant named the Plant Job Review Committee (hereinafter referred to as 'Review Ccmnittee') to consist of two (2) members representative of Management and two (2) members representative of the employees. At least one (1) representative of Management must be a member of the Plant's salaried Staff or Management, and at least one (1) representative of the employees mist be an employee of the Plant whose job is subject to Plywood
Supplement No. 7, Article 4 a) Cont'd
Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed at the plant, and the Union may do likewise except that neither Party may choose as its representative a member of the Plywood Evaluation Coxnnittee or any person who is employed as a job evaluator by CONIFER or by IWA-GANADA.
b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly-paid
employees for time lost from his/her regular work schedule while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, regarding his/her own job, before e regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly-paid employees.
Article 5 - Function of Review Conlttea
a)	The Review committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Plywood Evaluation Conaittee for further action. The documents required will include a 'Request for Job Evaluation' form submitted either by an individual employee or by local management, and a fully completed ’Job Description’ form which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of the Plywood Evaluation Committee. The form of the Documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them and the time limits for completion may be amended as required by the Plywood Evaluation Committee under the authority given them by Article 3 of this Supplement.
b)	Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request for evaluation or re-evaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limit, the Review committee shall at the request of any one of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement to the Plywood Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
Supplement Mb. 7, Article 5 Cont'd
c)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job, it shall comnunicate that decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committee that an Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, will, similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
d)	Nothing in the Article limits the right of the Plywood Evaluation Comnittee to determine the facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend any job description or specif ication submitted to them in support of a Request for Job Evaluation fom.
Article 6 - Application of Program
The job evaluation program shall apply to all hourly paid employees in the Plywood industry except Journeymen Tradesmen, Improvers, Helpers, Powerhouse and Boom Crews, Oilers and Grindenaen.
Article 7 - Direction of Work
Job Evaluation descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirements of the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restriction on the right of the Company to create a new job or to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that if the assignment of such duties changes the job content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation the Plywood Evaluation committee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure set out herein.
Article 8 - Re—Evaluation
a) When a job has moved to another group as a result of re-evaluation, the wage rate for the new grade shall be effective on the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review committee for re-evaluation.
Supplement Nb. 7, Section 8 Cont'd
b)	When a job is moved to a lower grade as a result of
re-evaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his/her job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of Article 10 herein.
Article 9 - Hpw Jobs Created
where the Company has exercised its right to create a new job, a temporary rate shall be set by Management. The permanent rate for the said job as determined by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be effective as of the date the job was installed. If the evaluated rate for a new job is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbent(s) shall be allowed to continue at the temporary rate.
Article 10 - Red Circle Jobs
a)	The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circled jobs, the said list to include the name of the employee, name of the job category filled, the evaluated rate for the job, and the actual rate paid.
b)	Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
c)	Employees holding red circle jobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for the job to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is reassigned to his/her former jobhe/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
d)	When the Company terminates a job, or a job is not occupied during a period of one (1) year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established.
e)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company he/she shall retain his/her existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to his/her regular job the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
Supplement Ns. 7 Cont'd
Article 11 - Seniority
a)	Subject to the provisions herein set out, Article VIII - Seniority of this Agreement shall continue to apply.
b)	Prosotions shall be made only where a vacancy exists.
Article 12 - Referral Procedure
a)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transait its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review Committee.
b)	When an srployee' s request for re-evaluation results in no change being Bade in the jcb grade, or in a reduction, or when a Management request results in no change or in an increase, the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall give to the appropriate Review Comaittee a short statement of the reasons for the decision. The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficient depth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
c)	An evaluation done by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the parties, but at any tine after five (5) years since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of a job, Management or an individual eaployee may submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
4)	If the Plywood Evaluation Comnittee is unable to reach
agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other natter regarding the job evaluation program which falls within their jurisdiction the matter shall be referred to CONIFER and to IWA-CANADA for settlement.
Supplement No. 7, Article 12 Cont'd.
e)	All communication between any Plant Review Committee and the Plywood Evaluation Committee referred to above shall be effective by sending one (1) copy to the Union representative or representatives on the committee and one (1) copy to the Employer representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of the appropriate Union local and the employer representative care of the Company's offices at the Plant. In the case of communications to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, the union representative will be addressed care of the offices of IWA-CANADA, Vancouver, and the Employer representative care of the offices of CONIFER.
Article 13 - Training
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by CONIFER and IWA-CANADA.
110
SUPPLEMENT HO. B
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A.	FLEXIBILITY, OF HOURS OF WORK
The Parties recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in Article VII - Hours of Work, Sections 1 and 2, for the express purpose of better utilization of manpower and capital such as:
Balancing of production
Maintenance
Market requirements
Even flow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs
Continuous scheduling (e.g., Logging, Engineers, Firemen, Maintenance, Watchmen).
B.	SHIFT SCHEDULING
The parties agree that the following shift schedules are examples of the type which will provide the flexibility required to meet the needs expressed above provided the provisions of Article VII section 4 (b) (i) and (11) have been met.
1.	Logging
(a)	compressed schedules consisting of 10 hours per day, 4 days per week:
(b)	non-continuous schedules such as 10 days on 4 days off.
Supplement No. 8, Item 5. Cont'd
2.	Manufacturing
(i)	2 crews working 4 days, 10 hours per
shift:
(14.)	up to 3 Crews working Monday to
Saturday, 10 hours a shift not to exceed 40 hours per week;
(Hi)	employees	working in	continuous
operations may be scheduled to work shifts other than (i) or (ii) above.
3.	Maintenance
(a)	shifts of up to 10 hours par day, 40 hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive;
(b)	three shifts per week, not exceeding 12 hours per day.
4.	Other Shifts
It is understood the parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
C.	IMPLEMENTATION
Any variation(s) to Article VII - Hours of Work, shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps: 1
1.	The Company and the Local union will meet to discuss proposed shift schedules within the terms of Article vii. it is anticipated that Local Unions will sake sincere attempts to assist the companies wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The Parties must mutually agree on the resolution of issues such as:
112
Supplement No. 8, Item C. Cont'd.
(a)	Details of shift.
(b)	Details of Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave and Jury Duty.
Maximum lengths of shifts for physically demanding work. Accident prevention is a factor to be taken into account in determining shift lengths.
(d)	The loss of hours/employment as a direct result of the implementation of alternate shift schedules.
(e)	The use of employees for supplementary production work.
2.	The Camp or Plant Committee and the crew will be actively consulted by the parties during this process.
D.	GEMERAT. PRTMCTPT.ES
When an alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of the Collective Agreement will be administered on the principle that an employee will not lose or gain any benefits over his normal five-day schedule.
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intention is to increase the use of casual employees in place of regular employees.
2.	Different parts of an operation may be scheduled on different shifts.
3.	The principle of the forty (40) hour week is to be maintained over an averaging period.
4.	This Article shall not change existing alternate shift agreements, unless agreed to by both parties.
- 113 -
Supplement No. 8, Ite* D. cont'd.
5
6
7
e
9
Earned vacations will be scheduled on the same basis a6 days arid hours worked under the alternate shirt schedule.
Other Articles of the Collective Agreement, which provide benefits after eight (S) hours, are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
An employee's rest days may vary from week to week under an alternate shift schedule► Employees shall not be paid premium pay for changes In their rest days in these circuBstances.
An eaployea whose rest days are changed by the Coapemy under an established alternate shift schedule, shall receive rate and one-hall for work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest day results from the application of seniority or has been agreed to between the employee and the Conpany.
There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are changed because of the laplenentation or discontinuance of an alternate shift schedule.
SAFETY
Comes from man's mastery of his Environment and cf himself. it is won by individual effort and group co-operation.
It can be achieved only by informed, alert, skillful people who respect themselves and have a regard for the welfare of others.
SPEE-DEE PRINTERS LTD., PRINCEGEORGE, B.C.
£7or4
AGREEMENT
Between
LIGNUM LIMITED
IWA - CANADA Local 1-425, C.L.C.
JULY 1, 1991 - JUNE 30, 1994
£fP 16 tgg?

INDEX
Apprenticeship Training Program Arbitration Procedure Bargaining Agency Call-Back Tine Casual Work
Construction contracting Definition
Duration of Agreement Firefighting Agreement First Aid
Attendants
Training
Forestry Environmental committee General Provisions Grading Tickets Grievance Procedure Health and Welfare Dental Insurance L.T.D.
Medical Pension Hot Heals
Hours of Work and Overtime Interpretation and Arbitration Job Training Leave of Absence Logging
Contractors
Hours of work & overtime Rates
Long Term Disability Management
New concepts committee
Pay Days
Pension Plan
Permanent Plant Closure
Plywood Job Evaluation
Powerhouse Training Program
Rest Breaks
Right of Reference
Safety and Health
Safety Equipment
sawmill Job Evaluation Plan
seniority
Shift Differential Statutory Holidays
Article	Page
XXI	49
XV	(2)	37
2
VII (10)	14
VII (12)	14
XVI	(11)	41
II	2
XXXIII	58
XXVI	54
V	(3)
XVI (10) XXXII
XVI
V	(2) XIII
XVII
XVII (3) XVII (2) XIX
XVII	(1)
XVIII VII (14) VI I
XV
xx
IX
7
41 57 39
€
34
42
47
43
48 42
48 15
9
36
49 20
XVI (7) VII (4)
V	(9)
XIX
III
XXX
VI
XVIII XVI (6)
XXVIII
XXIX
VII	(11) XIV
XII
XXIV
XXVII
VIII
v (7)
XI
40
11
9
48
2
57
9
48
40
56
57
14 35 33 52 54
15 8
29
INDEX Cont'd
Article	Page
Technological Change Three Shift Operations Tool Insurance Tools
Travel Time
Troubled Employee Program Union Security vacations with Pay
One Years’ service Two Years’ Service Seven Years’ Service Fifteen Years' Service Twenty-Four Years' Service Thirty Years’ service Pay - Percentage of Wages Qualification for Vacation Pay Cut-Off Dates
Wages
Welders
Working Foremen
XXIII VII (5) XXV
XVI (9)
XXII
XXXI
IV X
X (1)
X (2)
X (3)
X (4)
X (5)
X (6)
X (9)
X (10)
X (11)
V
V (4) XVI (5)
50
13
53
41
50
57
3
24
24
24
25 25
25
26 26
27
28 5 7
40
SUEPLEMENT.S
No.	Page
Wage Scale	1
Filing Room Categories Logging Category Wage Rates Miscellaneous Categories - Logging Miscellaneous Categories - Manufacturing Operational Categories - Logging Trades - Logging Trades - Manufacturing Ad t	and itjr t	2
Job l	ra os	3
i	aiii	Program	4A
Apprenticeship Training Program	4B
Filer's & Fitter's Training Program Firefighting Agreement	5
Sawmill Job Evaluation	6
Plywood Job Evaluation	7
Alternate shift scheduling	8
59
62
65
68
62
69 63 59
70 72 74 82 89 93 97
104
110
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 1st day of July, 1991
BETWEEN:	LIGNUM LTD.
(hereinafter known as the 'Carpany') OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	IWA-CANADA, LOCAL 1-425, C.L.C.
(hereinafter known as the 'TJtaicn') OF THE SECOND PART
1.	WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationships between the employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement between the Parties hereto, AND
2.	WHEREAS the Company accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement, and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Employees, AND
3.	WHEREAS the Union accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement, and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Company.
NOW THEREFORE the Parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - BARGAINING- AGENCY
Section l;
The Company agrees to recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining representative on behalf of its Employees properly and duly certified under the appropriate regulations in effect frcan time to time.
Section 2:
The Party of the First Part agrees that the bargaining authority of the Party of the Second Part shall not be impaired during the term of this new collective agreement. The Party of the First Part agrees that the only certification they will recognize during the term of this new agreement is that of the Party of the Second Part unless ordered by due process of law to recognize some other bargaining authority.
ARTICLE II - DEFIKITIOM
The term 'Employee' as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Company on whose behalf the IWA-CANADA, Local 1-424 have been certified as bargaining agents, except and excluding foremen and others having authority to hire and fire, office workers, supervisory officials and salesmen.
ARTICLE ITT - MANAGEMENT
Section I
The management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the Eaployees are vested exclusively in the management, provided however that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
section 2:
The cotapany shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline them or discharge them for proper cause.
ARTICLE IV
Section h
The Company will co-operate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members, the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present to new enployees and to all Supervisors and Foremen, the Policy herein expressed.
Section 2:
All enployees who entered the enployment of the conpany on or after the 1st day of Septenber, 1956, and all new Enployees shall, within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering enployment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union end maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a condition of continued enployment.
Section 3:
Any enployee who is a member in good standing, or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall, as a condition of continued enployment, maintain such menbership in good standing throughout the term of this agreement.
section 4;
a)	Any enployee who fails to maintain his/her membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments, shall be subject to discharge after seven (7) days written notice to the Conpany of the said Employee's refusal to maintain his/her menbership.
b)	.
It is agreed that the application of this Section means that when an enployee fails to maintain his/her membership in good standing by refusing to pay dues and assessments, and provided proper notice has been given in accordance with the Agreement, the enployee will be discharged for such refusal.
section 5:
a) No enployee shall be subject to any penalties against his/her application for menbership or reinstatement,
ARTICLE IV, Section 5 a) Cont'd
except as may be provided for in the IWA-CANADA Constitution and in accordance with the By-laws Of Local 1-424 which the Local Unions certified as being correct.
b) Any employee who applies to join the Union pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Union, shall not be subject to discharge from employment.
Section 6:
The Company shall require all new Employees, at the tine of hiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union. All check-off forms to be forwarded to the Local Union within fifteen (15) days of hiring.
-
PLEASE PRINT
HUM or tuannt
— - _
ttSUUNCtW __________________
In •rf'UOo*'lt>on ***• you («*J «im*
IWA-CANADA
CHECK-OFF
tuj/f Cf
____i|_ tuaam - -	-	-
ofownow______
you a «•*»ott el •* IWA-Canada?.
I	MifeefiM and inattcl ye* lo defect fcom wage*
and nm* 4o Local 1-_____at* Mowing in paywd a»
0>« amount! Mt out Moan
1.	Unm Mbation Emin vw amount of
2.	Union Sock 0u«> in K« omouM d S .........—
3	l*»nnfr—A	w —
commencing____________________________!•____
4	Umon <utivwnt in M amoud and 01 mt *»• daMd « note* rocwvoo or you »om mo Local Union dta.gnind atiova
APPLICATION FOR MEM8ERSHP I koraOr roguod and occaw'amnLiouNuin PwlWA Canada
Local No. J-___and ipw » abide Or me eendMion
and oHam el Ha otgammien. m cim el	el
quoHtcaiion Ih membeiihie I agroo lo telM al rtgMa. griwiegee end money* 0*d.
SCnaAKV
amfAMT.CMR.OTce____________________________
aocmio______________________________________
Qyo*««nlr»n»al«a»y»a»»NrnWd«<i>PnLacamwonCl*>a
ARTICLE rv Cont'd
section 7f
This assignment, In the case of employees already members of the Union shall be effective Ijawdiately and for those Snployees not previously oeobsrs of the Union, it shall becdiis effective thirty	calendar days fro8 the date of
execution.
The company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such, assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked by the empToyee) to the Local Union named therein, no later than the 15th day of the aonth following the month in which the deduction was made From the employee, with a written atateaent of naaes of employees Cca: whoa the deductions were made and the mount of eaoh deduction.
Section 81
The company shall furnish the Union with the Social Insurance Nuaher of each eaployM on Its payroll on the first occasion wh&i duas are forwarded to the Onion after the execution of this Agreement or after the employee enters the employment of the company, whichever dates last occurs*
AMICI&V.-JtttlgS
Section l:
Effective July 1, 1993, the wages of all hourly rated employees will, be increased by eighty-five cents ($0.65) per hour.
b)	The basic rate for coeron labour shall be:
1i) $17.07 per hour effective July 1, 1991. ii) $17.92 per hour effective JUly 1, 1993.
ARTICLE V, Section 1 Cont'd
c)	The wage scale attached hereto, Supplement No. I, is
approved by both Parties and may, subject to the mutual consent of both parties be revised once annually.
Section 2 Grading Tickets
a)	Umber Cradsrs
All Certified Lumber Graders shall receive the premiums set out below, in addition to the Job Evaluated rate.
class A Grading certificate - fifteen cents ($0.15) per hour
Class B Grading Certificate - ten cents ($0.10) per hour.
Provided that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as lumber graders.
b)	Lumber Grading.Certificates
Any employee holding a Class A or B lumber grading certificate shall receive a premium of five cents ($0.05) per hour for all hours worked. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
c)	Grading Tickets shall be permanent and valid certificates, but graders shall remain subject to the regulations of X.L.M.A., C.L.H.A., C.O.F.I., H.I.L.A., P.L.I.B. and other regulatory bodies.
d)	All lumber graders holding grading	certificates shall
attend upgrading classes as required.
e)	Lumber graders who are required to attend upgrading classes (grading rule changes) shall receive their regular straight-time rate for time spent in attending such classes.
£ j	Where a company is paying a bonus or premiua(s) greater
than set out above, it shall keep such policy in effect.
ARTICLE V Cant'd
Section 3: First Aid Attendants:
a)	Designated First Aid Attendants shall receive their job rate of pay plus the Ticket premium rate. All other employees holding valid First Aid tickets shall receive a premium of five cents ($0.05) per hour over and above their job rate. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
b)	Where a Company is paying a bonus or prenium(s) greater than set out above, it shall keep such policy in effect.
Section 4: Welders
a)	Effective July 1st, 1981 the following shall be the classification of welders in manufacturing conditional on the welders being qualified as required under the Standard Forest Industry Welding Specifications and either having completed the three (3) year apprenticeship program or having worked in the trade for six thousand (6000) hours as a welder.
Group 1 - Welder (FI-101 - PI-102)
Group 2 - Welder .	(FI-103, DPWl, DPW2)
Group 3 - Welder (Uncertified)
b)	Employees employed as welders and who are required by the employer to renew their welding qualifications shall be granted up to five (5) days paid leave of absence to attend school for instruction. The Company shall pay the cost of instruction and examinations.
Section £5:
It is agreed that employees engaged on contract or piece-work shall not receive less money than the equivalent of the hourly rate specified in the wage schedule for the number of hours worked in each pay period.
ARTICLE V Cont'd
Section £
It is agreed that contract fallers and buckers, who have left the employ of the Company for any reason whatsoever, shall receive their final scale slip, and final payment for same, not later than thirty (30) days after their last day of employment.
Section 7:
The first (1st) shift, which may vary in individual operations, is the recognized day shift. Hours worked outside the recognized day shift shall be regarded as the second (2nd) and third (3rd) shifts.
Premium rate for second (2nd) and third (3rd) shifts shall be thirty-one cents ($0.31) per hour. A day shift employee working in excess of this regular shift will be paid rate and one-half without the differential.
Any employee on the second (2nd) or third (3rd) shift working in excess of his/her regular shift shall receive rate and one-half. For the purpose of the last sentence rates shall be rate plus thirty-one cents ($0.31).
Persons employed on other than on regular shifts, shall be paid the thirty-one cents ($0.31) Premium rate for all hours worked outside the recognised day shift.
Section 8:
In the event that job conditions change, or new machinery is installed, or a new category is established, the Union and the representatives of CONIFER agree to meet with the Company or Companies concerned to discuss designation and wage rates to be paid to the employees concerned.
ARTICLE V Cont'd
Section 9:	Logging Rates
Logging rates shall be as set forth in Supplement Nb. 1 GROUPING AND LOGGING WAGE SCALE
Effective
Group	July 1, 1991
Level	Increment	Rate
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
36
38
36
$17.29
17.44
17.61
17.76 17.94 18.14 18.36 18.56 18.79 19.06 19.34 19.67 20.02 20.38
20.76
21.12
15
17
15
.20
.22
.20
.23
33
35
36 36 36
$18.14
18.29
18.46
18.61
18.79
18.99
19.21
19.41
19.64
19.91
20.19
20.52
20.87
21.23
21.61
21.97
ARTICLE VI - PAY DAYS
a)	The Company shall provide for pay-days every second
week.
b)	Each employee shall be furnished with an itemized
statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
ARTICLE VII - HO
Section 1:
a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per
day and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Friday inclusive.
ARTICLE VII, Section 1 Cont'd
b)	Overtime will be paid at rate and one-half for all
hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a day, and for Saturday and/or Sunday, with the following exceptions:
Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day.
ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six
(6) days.
ill) Item ii) above shall not apply to employees who work on Sunday as a regular scheduled day.
iv)	For purposes of this provision, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as a shift worked.
c)	If a Statutory Holiday occurs during the work week, the
employees shall only be required to work on Saturday and/or Sunday for the tine lost due to the Statutory Holiday by mutual consent. For such work the employee shall be paid rate and one-half.
Section 2 Engineers, Fireaen, Millwrights, Maintenance, Repair, Construction Employees and Watchmen:
a)	The regular hours of work shall be five (5) eight-hour days, with two (2) days of rest each week Monday through Sunday. Such days of rest will be consecutive days unless mutually agreed to be otherwise between the employee and the company.
b)	Overtime shall be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, on Sundays and upon the employee's two designated rest days, if worked, with the following exceptions:
Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the fol lowing:
i)	Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day.
ARTICLE VII, section 2 b) Coni'd
Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
Item ii) above shall not apply to employees who work on Sunday as a regular scheduled day.
For purposes of this provision, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as a shift worked.
Firefighters, Boatmen, First Aid Hen, Cook and Bunkhouse Employees
a)	The weekly and daily hours shall be in accordance with the Employment Standards Act as amended December l, 1963.
b)	Time worked by cookhouse and bunkhouse employees shall be computed on a daily basis provided, however that rate and one-half shall apply to hours worked in excess of eight (8) per day and forty (40) per week.
c)	Interpretation Northern Interior	Lumbemien's
Association and International Woodworkers of America, Local 1-424, December 29th. 1960:
"Joint understanding is that the number of hours constituting a day for cookhouse and bunkhouse employees shall be eight (8) hours and that the rate of wages as set out in the present Agreement shall be considered as pay for the eight (8) hour day."
ii)
iii)
iv)
Section 3;
Section 4: Alternate Shift Scheduling
a)	Management, Plant or Camp Committees and Local Unions shall have the right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturing operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour week is maintained over an averaging period. Rate and ono-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday.
b)	Any variation(s) to Sections 1 and 2 above shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps;
12 -
ARTICLE VII, section 4 b) Cont'd
Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Local Management.
ii) Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations.
c)	When alternative schedules have been implemented in
accordance with a) andb) above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A.	Rate and one-half shall be paid for the following:
i)	The first three (3) hours worked in a day
in excess of the normal daily hours of the established schedule.
ii) Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
iii)	All hours worked on an employee's scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
iv)	All hours worked on Sunday except those excluded in the casual section.
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i) All hours worked in excess of A i) above.
ii) All hours worked on Sunday when Sunday is also an employee's scheduled rest day, if the employee has worked forty (40) straight-time hours in the preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
ARTICLE VII Section 4 Cont'd.
C.	Supplement No. 8 - Alternate Shift scheduling, contains the agreed upon general principles and parameters for the establishment, implementation or discontinuance of alternate shift schedules.
Section 5:	Three-Shift operations
a)	The Employer shall have the right to operate his/her plant or any part thereof on a three (3) shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Employers’ option.
b)	It is agreed that Clause a) above shall only apply to those employees actually working on a three (3) shift basis.
c)	The Employers shall have the right to determine the number of shifts operated in any unit or department of the operation.
Section 6:
It is agreed between the Parties that if three (3) hours or less are necessary after midnight Friday, or on a Statutory Holiday, to complete the shift which commenced on Friday afternoon, or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight to complete this shift will be paid at straight time.
Section 7:
The foregoing provisions of this Article shall not be construed a5 guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 8:
Any employee called for work and finding no work available due to reasons beyond his or her control shall be entitled to
ARTICLE VII, Section 8 Cont'd
two (2) hours pay at the usual rate. This shall apply unless the Company gives notice cancelling the said call.
Such notice shall be considered to be given by an announcement over the appropriate local radio station(s), prior to the commencement of the shift in accordance with Section 2 b) of Supplement Nb. 2.
section 9:
When an employee is called for work and starts work, he/she shall receive four (4) hours pay at his/her regular rate unless his/her work is suspended because of inclement weather, or other reasons completely beyond the control of the Company.
section 10:	Call-Back Tiae
Employees called back to work after completion of their regular scheduled shift shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours at rate and one-half.
Section 11:
Employees employed in manufacturing plants will be provided two (2) ten-minute breaks, one (1) within each half of a shift, at a time designated by the Company, which shall not be later than one (1) hour before the end of each half shift.
It is agreed that the two (2) breaks in the above paragraph will be applicable to shifts of seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours or more. When a shift is less than seven and one-half (7 1/21 hours (ie six and one-half (6 1/21 hour graveyard shift) only one (1) break will be given.
Section 12:	Casual Work
a)	The term ’Casual Work’ as used in this Agreement shall apply only to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-off regular employees or other persons hereinafter referred to as ’Casual Employees.’
ARTICLE VII, Section 12 Cont'd
k)	Casual employees on maintenance, repair or preparatory
work shall be paid straight-time rates, and those on production shall be paid rate and one-half for all work performed on Saturday and Sunday.
c)	Casual work on maintenance, repair and preparatory work will be paid at straight-time job rate.
d)	, Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as
Casual Employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said casual employees.
e)	The employer agrees to keep a separate seniority list of casual employees who have worked at least ten (10) working days, exclusively for recall purposes and, subject to clause d), further agrees to recall casual employees in accordance with their seniority as set forth in this list.
Section 13:
When an employee is unavoidably prevented from reporting for his/her scheduled shift, if reasonably possible, he/she must give notice to his/her foreman, or at the Company office, at least two (2) hours before the shift commences.
Section 14:	Rot Heals
Where maintenance, repair or construction employees are required to work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal, such hot meal to be consumed by the employee on Company time before beginning the overtime work.
ARTICLE VIII - SENIORITY
Section 1:
a)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, it shall be mutually agreed that all employees are hired on probation, the probationary
ARTICLE VIII, Section 1 a) Cont'd
period to continue until thirty (30) days have been worked, during which time they are to be considered temporary workers only, and during this same period no seniority rights shall be recognized.
b)	It is agreed that probationary employees will have preference over Casual employees for any work performed during the normal work week, subject to competency.
c)	It is further agreed that in the application of b) above, probationary employees will be called in for work in accordance with their hiring date, unless such call-in is beyond the control of the employer, and is subject to the employee being competent to perform the work. This obligation does not apply where the employee cannot be readily contacted or where the employee has already worked one shift in the 24-hour period.
d)	Upon completion of thirty (30) days worked they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company's employ, provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) days worked shall only be cumulative within the three (3) calendar months following the date of entering employment.
Section 2:
a)	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority, competency considered.
b)	The Company and the Union will meet to discuss a procedure for posting of vacancies of jobs above base rate.
c)	Where the Company operates more than one plant, each such plant will be considered separately for seniority purposes: except where the Union and Company agree upon some different arrangement.
section 3:
a)	When making promotions, the Company agrees to give due consideration to length of service.
ARTICLE VIII/ Section 3 Cont'd.
b)	In the event of a reduction of forces the last person hired shall be the first released, subject to the provisions of section 2 of this Article.
c)	During a reduction of forces where an employee’s seniority is such that he/sha will not be able to keep his/her regular jobhe/she may elect whether or not to apply his/her seniority to obtain a lower paid job or a job paying the same rate of pay or accept a lay-off until his/her regular job becomes available, provided however:
1)	If during the lay-off period the employee wishes to return to work ancf so notifies the Company, he/she shall be called back to work as soon as his/her seniority entitles his/her to a job.
2)	The application of this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his/her rights, bumping an employee with less seniority.
d)	During a reduction of forces where an employee’s seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regular jobhe/she may elect to apply his/her seniority "to obhain a job paying a higher rate if he/she has previously held the job in the operation on a regular basis.
Section 4:
a)	It is agreed that when employees are to be re-hired after a lay-off, it shall be dona on the basis of the last person released shall be the first person re-employed, subject to provisions of Section 2 a). It is agreed that in cases of emergency the application of plant senioritysay ta postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding three (3) days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision it shall notify the Contfaifctes or the Local Union immediately.
b)	Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions, the application of seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding five (5) working days. If the Company
ARTICLE VIII, Section 4 b) Cont'd
decides to exercise its rights under this provision it shall notify the Shop Committee as soon as possible.
Section 5:
a)	When re-employing, in accordance with Section 4, after seasonal shut-down, all employees shall be notified by telegram or registered letter at least seven (7) days before re-starting of operation. The employees must reply by telegram or registered letter in the affimiative within ninety-six (96) hours of the telegram or registered letter being sent out by the Company, and appear for work not later than the above stated seven (7) day period.
b)	Employees resident in the Province of Alberta, or the Yukon Territories shall be entitled to one (1) additional day to report and employees resident in any other Canadian Province o r the United States shall be entitled to two (2) additional days to report.
c)	It shall be the srplcyee's responsibility to keep the Company informed of his/her address during the period of shut-down.
d)	It is agreed that all employees shall, upon returning to employment, in accordance with this section, retain all seniority rights.
Section fi
It is agreed that upon the request of the Union a list will be supplied by the Company setting out the name and the starting date with the Company of each regular employee: however, such request shall not be granted more than twice during each year of the term of the Agreement.
The Company will advise the union once each month of changes to the said list.
ARTICLE VIII Cont'd.
Section 7:
a)	It is mutually agreed that when hiring new employees consideration for preference shall, subject to the same conditions as in Section 2 above, be given to those employees of the Company having had previous seniority and who have an application on file.
b)	The Company signatory to this Agreement undertakes to give preference in hiring to former employees having previous Company seniority seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reductions in other operations of the Company.
Section 8:
It is agreed between the Parties that seniority during
lay-offs shall be retained on the following basis:
a)	Employees with less than one (1) year's service will retain their seniority for a period cf eight (8) months.
b)	Employees with one (1) or more gear's service shall retain their seniority €or one (1) year, plus one (1) additional month for each year's service, up to an additional six (6) months.
c)	A laid-off employee's seniority retention as provided for in a) and b) above will be re-instated in the event of re-employment before the expiry of seniority retention and on the completion of one d^s work.
section 9:
It is agreed that when an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory or staff position, he/she will continue to accumulate seniority for a period of ninety (90) days. At any time during thin ninety (90) day period the individual shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit in the job which he/she would have held if he/she had not left the bargaining unit. (In special cases this ninety (90) day period may be extended for up to a further ninety (90) days by mutual agreement between the Company and the Shop Committee.) At the expiration of the period mentioned above,
ARTICLE VIII, Section 9 Cont'd
his/her seniority will be frozen. Thus, if at a later date, he/she ceases to be a supervisor or staff worker and the Company desires to retain his/her services, it is hereby agreed that reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit provided, however, that any employee so reinstated must return to the job held at the time of his/her promotion to the supervisory or staff position.
ARTICLE XX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
section 1
a)	Any employee desiring leave of absence for any reason other than those set out in Sections 2 and 3 of this Article must obtain same in writing from the Company, a copy of such leave to be forwarded to the Local Union.
b)	Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this Section for a period of longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the company agrees to notify the Job Steward and the Union as to the circumstances for the granting of such period of leave.
Section 2:
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering illness or injury, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the employer. The employee shall report, or cause to have reported, to the Company the injury or illness which requires his/her absence from the operation. The employee shall have a reasonable period of time to present a medical certificate if requested by the Company.
Section 3
a)	The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or elected to Union office for a period of up to and including one (1) year. Further leave of absence may be granted by mutual consent. Any employee who obtains such leave of absence shall return
ARTICLE IX, Section 3 a) Cont'd.
to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of his/her term of employment with the Union.
b)	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union Conventions, or members of any Union Negotiating Committee in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
c)	It is agreed that before the employee receives this Leave of Absence as set forth in clauses a) and b) above, the employer will be given notice in writing (in the case of a) * fifteen (15) calendar days, in the case of b) - five (5) calendar days) by the Union in order to replace the employee with a competent substitute.
d)	The Union will make every effort in requesting such leaves of absence to avoid requests that will unduly deplete the crew in any one department which will impair production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Union will co-operate with the Company in making substitute employees available or select alternate delegates to attend Union functions.
Section 4:	compassionate Leave
By mutual agreement leave of absence will be granted to a maximum of six (6) months without pay to the employees for compassionate reasons or for educational or training or extended vacation purposes, conditional on the following terms:
a)	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application.
c)	The Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant or may postpone leave where a suitable replacement is not available.
ARTICLE IX, Section 4 Cont'd
d)	That the Company will consult with the Shop Committee in respect of any application for leave under this section.
e)	The Company will only be obliged to grant leave of absence for educational and training purposes to employees who intend to take training that will assist the individual in obtaining skills related to the industry.
f)	Employees granted Leave of Absence pursuant to this section shall be required to pay the appropriate premiums for Medical Services Plan, Extended Health Benefits, and Dental Plan coverage in accordance with sections 8 d) and e) of the Memorandum of Agreement dated December 10th, 1983.
g)	The Union agrees it will provide a letter regarding problems which arise from extended vacation applications.
h)	A committee shall be established during the term of the 1977-1979 Agreement to clarify the terms of this Section.
section 5:	Maternity Leave
To provide for a reasonable period of time for extended maternity leave without pay to female employees where these is a valid medical reason.
Section 6:	Bereavement Leave
a) When death occurs to a member of a regular full-time employee's immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence for which he/she shall be compensated at his/her regular straight time hourly rate of pay for hours lost from his/her regular work schedule for a maximum of three (3} consecutive days.
b}	Piece workers who are entitled to bereavement leave
shall be compensated in accordance with the principle established in Article XI, Section 2 b).
ARTICLE IX. Section 6 Cont'd
c)	Members of the employee's immediate family are defined
as the employee's spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sons-in-law,	daughters-in-law,	step-parents,
grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchildren, and step-children.
d)	Compensable hours under the terms of this Section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 7:	Jury Duty
a)	Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, Coroner's Duty, or as a Crown Witness or Coroner's Witness on a day which he/she would normally have worked will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay received for Jury Duty and his/her regular straight time hourly rate of pay for his/her regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received for Jury Duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of Jury Service and Jury Duty pay received.
b)	Any piece-worker who is required to perform Jury Duty shall be compensated for the difference between statutory pay received for Jury Duty and his/her job rate in accordance with the principle established in Article XI, Section 2b).
c)	Hours paid for Jury Duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation and for recognized paid holidays but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 8:	Public Office
a) The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to and
- 24
ARTICLE IX Section 8 a) Cont'd
including eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office, shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the team of such office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences fron work for conducting Municipal business.
c)	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
ARTICLE X - VACATIONS WITH PAY
Section 1:
Employees with one (1) to two (2) years' continuous service shall receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay based on the greater of five percent (5%) or eighty (80) hours at the hourly rate of the aiplcyee's regular jcb.
section 2:	Two Years' Service
a)	Employees with two (2) or more years' continuous service with the company shall receive three (3) weeks' vacation with vacation pay based on the greater of seven percent (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the working year or one hundred and twenty (120) hours at the hourly rate of the «plcyee's regular job.
b)	The third week vacation as in a) above will be taken, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in the above Section, but at a time convenient to the company.
ARTICLE X Cont'd
Section 3:	seven Years' service
a)	Employees with seven (7) or more years’ continuous service shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with vacation pay based on the greater of nine percent (9%) of the wages or salary earned during the year of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular jcb.
b)	The additional one (1) week will be taken when convenient for the company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1 and 2 herein.
section 4:	Fifteen Years' Service
a) Employees with fifteen (15) or more years' continuous service shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with vacation pay based on the greater of eleven percent (11%) of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement, or two hundred (200) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job.
b) The additional two (2) weeks will be taken when convenient for the company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2, and 3 herein.
section 5:	Twenty-Four Years' service
a)	An employee with twenty-four (24) or more years' consecutive service shall receive six (6) weeks vacation with vacation pay based on the greater of thirteen percent (13%) of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and forty (240) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job.
b)	The additional three (3) weeks will be taken when convenient for the company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2, 2, and 4 herein.
26
ARTICLE X Cont'd
Section & Thirty Years’ Service
a)	Employees with thirty (30) years or more continuous service shall receive seven (7) weeks vacation with vacation pay based on the greater of fifteen percent
(15%) of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular jdb.
b)	The additional four (4) weeks will be taken when convenient for the company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 herein.
Section 7:
Vacations with pay for employees engaged on piece work shall be based on the average daily earnings for the previous twelve (12) months, or such lesser period of time employed.
Section a
Vacations for employees shall be taken at such time as mutually agreed upon by the Union Committee and the Company when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired.
section 9:	Vacation Pay - Percentage of wages Method
The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations with pay for an employee after one (1) continuous year of employment.
a)	Absence on Workers' Compensation up to a period of one (1) year, provided the employee returns to his/her employment.
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1) year, provided the employee returns to his/her employment. The Company shall have the right to require a certificatefrom a qualified medical practitioner. The employee shall have a reasonable period of time to present such medical certificate.
27
ARTICLE X Section 9 Cont'd
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement.
d)	Absence due to time served on Jury Duty in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the Company in writing shall be credited towards entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent on such leave shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 10:	Qualification for Vacation Pay - Regular Job
Rate Method
a)
i)	In order for an employee to qualify for the amount generated by the hours times the regular job rate method,the employee must have worked a minimum of fifteen hundred (1500) hours in the employee's first year of service and a minimum of one thousand (1000) hours during the employee's succeeding years of entitlement.
H) Where there is a common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in i) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeeding year.
Hi) Where there is no common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee's anniversary date in one year to his/her anniversary date in the succeeding year.
b)	For purposes of computing the requisite hours the
following will be included:
i) All hours worked:
ii)	Statutory Holiday hours:
iii)	Jury and Crown Witness duty:
iv)	Bereavement Leave:
28
ARTICLE X, Section 10 b) Cont'd.
v) Vacation hours:
vi) Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of an accident recognized as compensable by the Workers’ Compensation Board and suffered during the course of employment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee returns to his/her employment.
vii)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of a non-occupational accident or illness, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that at the time of the accident or illness the employee has been on the payroll for not less than one (1) year and that he/she returns to his/her employment. It is understood that the employer may require that the employee provide a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
viii)	Time lost as a result of lay-off shall not be considered a8 time worked for the purpose of qualifying for requisite hours.
ix)	Employees who report for work and who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any such shift for purposes of computing requisite hours under this Section. Any employee who qualifies for call time in a day shall receive credit under this Section for eight (8) hours or credit for the hours for which wages were paid, whichever is greater.
x)	All hours worked in more than one (1) division of the parent company as a result of transfer or lay-off.
Section 11:
For the purposes of administration the Company cut-off date shall be deemed to be the employee's anniversary date for the vacation year. It is further agreed that the employee will be entitled to an adjustment of the appropriate percentage of vacation pay when he/she qualifies for additional vacations
ARTICLE X, Section 11 Cont/d
for increased service with the Company as provided for under Sections 2 to 6 inclusive.
Section 12:	Employment Standards Act
Part 4 - Annual Vacation of the Employment Standards Act,
S.B.C., 1980, c. 10, and amendments thereto as consolidated December 1,	1983, except where varied or modified by the
Provisions herein, shall become a part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XI - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Section 1:
Ia) All hourly-rated employees who work on New Year's Day, Good Friday, victoria Day, Dominion Day, British Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be paid rate and one-half for all hours so worked.
b)	In the event one of the above Statutory Holidays falls
on a Sunday, the previous Friday or the following Monday shall be observed as the Holiday. In the event that one of the within named Statutory Holidays falls on Saturday it shall be observed the preceding Friday or succeeding Monday a5 agreed between the Company and the Plant committee.
c)	In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a
Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, and where the Company and Plant Committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
d)	At the option of the Company, but whenever possible, by mutual agreement with the Plant Committee, either Good Friday or Easter Monday shall become the designated Easter Holiday, and the Company shall notify its employees of the designation -at least one (1) week prior to the said Holiday.
ARTICLE XI Section 1 Cont'd
e)	When a Statutory Holiday falls on a Friday, employees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, by mutual agreement between the Company and the Plant committee may work on the Friday statutory holiday at the straight time job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday.
f)	In the case of a maintenance employee where one of the Statutory Holidays is observed on his/her rest day, he/she shall have a day off without pay in lieu thereof at a mutually agreeable time.
g)	Notwithstanding the above, in logging, a Statutory Holiday may be observed on another mutually agreed upon day in a week other than the week in which it occurs.
An employee who qualifies for such Statutory Holiday on the day it occurs, and works on that day, will be paid for the statutory Holiday at straight-time rates.
Section 2:
a)	All hourly-rated and piece-work employees who qualify for the paid holiday under the conditions set out below shall be paid for the holiday at their regular job rate of pay for their regular work schedule. The Parties hereto agree that the paid Statutory Holidays shall be as follows:
b)
c>
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Christmas Day
British Columbia Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Boxing Day
Piece-work employees shall receive pay for the statutory holidays for which they qualify, based on the daily average earnings for the days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) working days.
All hourly-rated employees working on a paid holiday shall receive rate and one-half for hours worked on such day in addition to the holiday pay to which he/she may be entitled.
31
ARTICLE XI, Section 2 Cont'd.
d)	Cook and bunkhouse employees who work on a statutory holiday shall receive at the end of their regular work schedule, an additional day Off with pay to be added to their leave and vacation allowance accumulated in accordance with Article VII, Section 3.
e)	To qualify for statutory holidays, an employee must have been on the Company payroll for the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday and must have worked his/her last regularly scheduled work day before, and his/her first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his/her absence is due to a compensable occupational injury or illness, which occurred within Six (6) months of the holiday, or the employee is on authorized leave of absence in accordance with Section 2 or 3 of Article IX.
f)	In the case of illness or injury, the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
g)	Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, the employee must have worked one (1) day before and one
(1) day after the holiday, both of which must fall within a period of sixty (60) calendar days.
Section 3:	Personal Floating Holiday
This section becomes effective September 1st. 1978. This Personal Floating Holiday is in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day, but this section shall come into operation on its effective date even if Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed.
a) Personal Floating Holiday
Regular full-time employees will be granted one (1) Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of this Agreement, to be arranged at a time suitable to the Employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production.
ARTICLE XI, Section 3 Cont'd.
b)
When the Personal Floating Holiday is taken, an enployee shall be paid for the said Holiday at his/her regular job rate of pay for his/her regular work schedule, subject to the following conditions:
x) A new enployee must have been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday.
ii) An employee will not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for more than nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury.
ill) An enployee shall apply on an approved form, at least seven (7) days in advance, for his/her Personal Floating Holiday. The enployee shall receive notice of the disposition of his/her request a fflinioum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to He requested Personal Floating Holiday.
iv) If an enployee is required to work on his/her Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date has been designated for such holiday, the employee shall be paid over-time for such work at the rate of time and one-half. The employee will then be entitled to take the holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon.
v)	Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 30th of each contract year will be scheduled by management.
vi)	A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on an employee’s regular rest day.
vii)	Where an enployee chooses Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday straight time rates will apply.
33
section 1:
The Company and Employees will co-operate to assure safe working methods and conditions and devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon to be provided by the Company.
Section 2s
The Management of every operation shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee of four (4) to six (6) members according to the size of the operation. Members of the Committee shall be designated to equal numbers by the Employees and the Employer. Employee representatives shall be regular employees in the operation with at least one (1) year's experience.
Section 3:
Safety meetings will be held during working hours where possible. Employee's time will not be deducted for attending such meetings or investigations into accidents. It is recognized that in multi-shift and in logging operations, meetings will occur outside of working hours for certain employees. When meetings take place outside of an employee's working hours, he/she will be compensated at his/her regular hourly straight time rate of pay for the time spent attending such meetings, investigations and inspections up to a maximum of two (2) hours per
Section 4
The Company will require all Cookhouse employees to have a ) health card from a recognized doctor within ten (10) days of I employment and shall renew same every six (6)months. Cost of medical examination is to be borne by the Employer i f the Employee stays on the job thirty (30) days. This requirement is subject to medical service being available.
■is
Section 5:
Effective July 1, 1989, an IWA-Forest Industry Safety and Health Research Program be established on the following general principles:
ARTICLE XII Section 5 Cont'd
a)	The Plan will be jointly trusteed.
b)	The Plan is to be funded on the basis of an Industry contribution of one-half cent (1/2) per hour per employee per hour worked, effective July 1, 1989.
c)	The trustees will be appointed in the first year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish objectives and procedures.
ARTICLE XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1:
A Grievance Committee shall be elected to consist of two (2) to four (4) employees elected by the Union members employed in the operation covered by this Agreement. Members of this Grievance Committee shall have completed their probationary period with the Company and shall have at least one (1) year's experience in the type of operation.
Wherever possible, members shall be selected on a departmental basis.
Meetings of the Grievance Committee shall, except in cases of emergency, and wherever possible, be held outside of working hours. In the event that a grievance should arise it shall be desalt with in the following manner, without stoppage of work.
Step 1
The individual employee involved with or without the Job Steward shall first take up the matter with the Foreman directly in charge of the work within fourteen (14) days from the occurrence of the event or events giving rise to the grievance or from the tine when the employee has knowledge or may be reasonably presuaed to have knowledge of such event or events.
Step 2
If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be reduced to writing by both parties when the same employee and the Committee shall take up the
ARTICLE XIII, Section 1 Cont'd
Grievance with the Plant Superintendent. If desired the Union Business Agent shall accompany the Committee.
Step 3
If the grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Local Union and the Management.
Step 4
If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
Section 2:
a)	If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage under
Step 2,	3, or 4 within fourteen (14) days after
completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. The fourteen (14) day limit may be extended by mutual consent of both parties.
b)	The Parties agree that the operation of Section 96, Subsection (1), of the Industrial Relations Act, is specifically excluded from this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIV - RIGHT OF REFERENCE
section l:
If the two Parties fail to agree upon an interpretation of the Agreement, either Party shall have the right to refer the matter to the Joint Industry Committee, hereinafter provided, and if either party does make such reference, the other Party must accept the reference.
Section 2:
The Joint Industry Committee shall consist of three (3) representatives selected by the IWA-CANADA, C.L.C. Negotiating
ARTICLE XIVr Section 2 Cont'd
Committee and three (3) representatives selected by the Employers represented in the negotiations of this Agreement, and the two (2) committees may be represented by one (1) or more Parties selected by them.
Section 3:
When an interpretation of the Agreement has been referred to the Joint Committee, this reference shall be for the period of forty-eight (48) hours or longer by mutual consent of the Parties to this Agreement. In case the Joint Committee agrees upon a recommendation or interpretation, this shall be furnished in writing to the Union involved and to the Employer.
Section 4:
In the event the Joint Committee members disagree, all the facts in the case as found by the Union and Union members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submitted to the Employer and to the Union Members involved. The facts in the case as found by the Employer and the employer members of the Joint Committee shall be placed i n writing and given to the Union member employees for their information.
section 5:
If a satisfactory interpretation of the point in question is not reached, either Party may refer the question to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE XV - TNTKRPRKTATTOlt AMD ARBITRATION
section 1:	Interpretation
a)
In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation of this Agreement which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by interpretation in the following manner.
ARTICLE XV Section 1 Cont'd
b)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by Registered Mail on the question or questions to be interpreted. After receiving such notice and statement, each of the Parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreter selected by the Parties.
c)	The Parties agree to _________________________ as the
Interpreter for the duration of this Agreement.
d)	In the event that the Interpreter as provided for in c) herein is not available to preside as Interpreter under this Section, the Parties agree that they will request the Honourable Minister of Labour of the Province of British Columbia to appoint a Judge either of the Supreme Court of British Columbia or the Court of Appeal of the Province to preside as Interpreter for the dispute then pending.
e)	The decision of the Interpreter shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Parts.
Section 2:	Arbitration
In the case of a dispute arising under this Agreement, except as to Interpretations of this Agreement, which the Parties are unable to settle themselves, as set out in Article XIII, the matter shall be determined by Arbitration in the following manner:
b)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by Registered Mail of the question to be arbitrated.
c)	After receiving such notice and statement, each of the Parties will then refer the matter in writing to the Arbitrator who has been selected by the Parties.
d)	The Parties shall appoint a panel of three (3) Arbitrators. If the Parties fail to appoint the required three (3) Arbitrators, they shall forthwith request the Honourable Minister of Labour of the Province of British Columbia to appoint the arbitrators required.
e)	The single Arbitrator shall be selected from the panel of three (3) Arbitrators on a rotational basis.
ARTICLE XV, Section 2 Cont'd
f)	In the event that the Arbitrators provided for in this Section are not available to preside as Arbitrator under this Section, the Parties agree to meet and attempt to select a mutually satisfactory arbitrator. If unable to select one which is mutually satisfactory, the Parties further agree to request the Honourable Minister of Labour of the Province of British Columbia to appoint an Arbitrator.
g)	If the Arbitrator finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, such employee shall be reinstated with all his/her rights and privileges preserved under the tenns of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall further make the determination on the amount of lost pay to be paid to the employee.
h)	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Parts.
Section 3:
Tile Parties of the First and Second Parts will each bear one-half (1/2) of the expenses of interpretations and arbitrations including the salary of the Interpreter or Arbitrator plus any stenographic, secretarial and rent expenses which may be incurred in respect of such proceedings.
Section 4; Place of Hearing
Any arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held at such place as may be decided by the Arbitrator.
Section 5:	Expedited Arbitration
A Committee shall be established to develop and implement a system of expedited arbitration of grievances. The chairman of this Committee will be H. Allan Hope, Q.C. The Committee shall report to the parties not later than July 1st., 1984.
Section 1:
a)	The Union will, within sixty (60) days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members of the Shop Committee. The Union or Shop Committee will inform the Company in writing when any member change takes place on the said Comnittee. No member of the Shop Comnittee will be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is carried out.
b)	For the purposes of this Agreement, when the word 'Comnittee' is used it shall mean Shop, Camp, Mill or Plant Committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
Official Union representatives shall obtain access to the Conpany's operations for the purposes of this Agreement by written permission which will be granted by the Conpany on request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
Section 2:
The Company agrees that the rate for Board and Lodging shall be two dollars and thirty-five cents ($2.35) per day.
Section 3:	No Strike Pending Grievance and Arbitration
Procedure
The Union agrees that it will not cause, promote, sanction, or authorize any strike, sitdovn, slowdown, sympathetic strike, or other interference with work by the employees for any cause whatsoever until all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedures have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Conpany.
Section 4:	No Lockout Pending Grievance and Arbitration
Procedure
The Company agrees it will not create or institute any lockout of the employees with respect to any dispute between the Company and the Union or the Conpany and its employees until
ARTICLE XVI, Section 4 Cont'd.
all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Union or its employees.
Section 5:	Working Foremen
Employees outside the bargaining unit will not perfomn work that is normally done by employees in the bargaining unit. However, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting foremen from doing work for purposes of instruction, provided by po doing a lay-off of bargaining unit employees does not result, or in the case of an emergency when regular employees are not available, provided that every reasonable effort is made to find a replacement.
section 6:	permanent Plant closure - Severance Pay
a)	Effective February 1st, 1975, employees terminated by the Company because of permanent closure of a manufacturing plant shall be entitled to severance pay equal to one (1) weed's pay for each year of continuous service and thereafter in increments of completed months of service.
b)	Where a plant is relocated and the employees involved are not required to relocate their place of residence or are not terminated by the employer as a result of the plant relocation, they shall not be entitled to severance pay under this Article.
c)	Effective July 1st, 1982 sixty (60) days notice of closure will be provided.
Section 7:	contractors
a)	The company will not contract out any work that is performed by employees in the Bargaining Unit at the effective date of the agreement.
b)	Current practices in operations shall be agreed on with the local union in writing. Until such time as agreement is reached the above clause a) only will apply.
41
ARTICLE XVI Cont'd.
section 8:	Planerman Training
A Joint Committee be established to discuss and implement a Planerman’s Training Program.
Section 9:	Tools
a)	The Company will repair or replace those Tradesmen tools that are damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties.
b)	The Company will make available Tradesmen’s tools required upon the introduction of the metric system.
c)	During the introduction of equipment which requires the use of metric tools, the Company will make metric tools available at no cost, for use by Tradesmen.
section 10:	First Aid Training
Employees of the Company who, by mutual agreement, train or re-train for InduetTial First Aid Certificates, will be compensated in the following manner:
a)	The Company will pay the cost of the course tuition and materials required to those employees who pass the course.
b)	The Company will pay lost time wages to designated First Aid Attendants.
section 11:	construction Contracting
a)	It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related to ’new’ construction with tradesmen employed by an outside contractor, plant tradesmen will be paid the ’outside’ contractor(s) rate(s).
b)	For the purpose of this Agreement ’new’ construction shall be defined as meaning:
i)	The construction of major new buildings and major additions to existing buildings.
ARTICLE XVI, Section 11 b) Cont'd
c)
ii)	The addition of new or used major production machinery and related equipment not previously in existence.
1) ’Tradesmen’ shall mean journeymen and apprentices in the following trades:
Machinist	Millwright
Steamfitter/Pipefitter	Welder
Electrician	Carpenter
ii) ’Contractor's Rate’ shall only mean the hourly wage paid by that contractor and not any other payment or working conditions.
ARTICLE XVII. - HEALTH AMP WELFARE
Section 1:	Medical
a)	The Company agrees to provide medical coverage for its employees by participating in the Medical Services Plan Of British Columbia.
b)	The Company agrees to provide Extended Health Benefits
to a lifetime maximum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00); including Hospitalization coverage up to a naximuffl of eight dollars and fifty cents ($8.50) per day:	to its employees by participating in a plan
entered into between the Company and an appropriate carrier.
c)	Medical coverage eligibility shall be the first of the month following date of employment.
d)	Total cost of providing medical coverage, including Extended Health Benefit coverage, shall be borne by the Company.
e)	i) Lay-off coverage for employees with more than
three (3) months' seniority, but less than one (1) year's seniority will be three (3) months. Lay-off coverage for employees with one (1) or more year's seniority will be six (6) months.
ARTICLE XVII, Section 1 e) Cont'd.
ii) In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he/she is employed for ten (10) working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
Hi) In addition, an employee who returns to work for at least one (1) working day and less than ten (10) working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any lay-off coverage to which he/she was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
f)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment.
g)	Coverage to be extended to dependents of regular employees including those dependents over the age of twenty-one (21), but not over the age of twenty-five (25) who are attending recognized educational institutions.
h)	Effective July 1st. 1982 a Vision Care Program be instituted to provide for payment up to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period for charges incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription.
Section 2:	Insurance Coverage
It is agreed that a Health and Welfare Plan be instituted with the principles hereinafter set out:
a)
CONIFER, together with the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, Forest Industrial Relations Limited, Northvood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Canfor Limited, Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA-CANADA agree to establish one (1) set of trustees for the purpose of developing a common text, a common trust agreement, and a common employee booklet for the six (6)Health and Welfare Plans, covering Life Insurance,
ARTICLE XVII, Section 2 a) Cont'd
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance and Weekly Indemnity.
b)	A Joint Committee, representing CONIFER, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, Forest Industrial Relations Limited, Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd. , Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA-CANADA, will be established to study the most effective method of administration of the Plans, reporting to the Parties no later than July 1st, 1984.
c)	cowtpto -_____Baard of Trustees
The Board of Trustees, composed of three (3) members representing IWA-CANADA and three (3) members representing CONIFER are responsible for the administration of the Northern Interior Forest Industry Benefit Plan. Hie Trustees are also responsible for the selection of carriers, funding, adjudication of compassionate appeals, and Health and Welfare problems directly related to the Plan.
The following coverage will be provided by the Company on an
industry-wide basis with a common carrier.
d)	Group Life Insurance for each qualified employee:
Effective July 1, 1991	$45,000
e)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee:
Effective July 1, 1991	$45,000
i)	Weekly Indemnity for each qualified employee: Effective July 1,	1991	$408
ii)	Weekly Indemnity to commence the first day of accident and the sixth day of illness for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks.
ARTICLE XVII, Section 2 f) Cont'd.
iii)	In the case of disability caused by non-occupational illness, Weekly Indemnity benefits will be payable commencing the first day of any such- absence where the illness results in the claimant being hospitalized as a bed patient, and, in cases where surgery is performed which necessitates loss of time from work.
iv)	Weekly Indemnity coverage will be eliminated for an employee on all extended leaves of absence provided, however, that such employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity coverage on the day that it vas agreed he/she was scheduled to return to work. In order to qualify for this coverage the employee must have returned to his/her place of residence in British Columbia unless his/her disability required him/her to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements of the claims adjudication carrier. In the case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurred during an extended leave of absence, the Trustees have the right to review certain circumstances.
v)	Absences due to the same or related causes will be considered one (1) continuous absence unless the employee returns to work on a regular full-time basis for at least four (4) continuous weeks between absences.
vi)	Third Party Subrogation
The parties agree to recommend to the Trustees of the Health and Welfare Plan that effective on the date of ratification of this Memorandum a third party subrogation clause be adopted so that the Weekly Indemnity Plan can be reimbursed from damages recovered from a liable third party for illness, injury or income loss. The Plan will be entitled to recover the full amount of benefits paid to the member which exceeds 100% of the maiber's pre-disability gross income. Gross income will be calculated by using the member's regular hourly job rate times (x) 40 hours. Trustees to work out the application and details, including the deduction of legal fees from the settlement and the execution of a reimbursement agreement.
46
ARTICLE XVII, Section 2 Cont'd
g)
h>
i)
j)

Total cost of providing insurance coverage shall be borne by the Company.
Eligibility shall be the first of the month following date of completion of the employee's probationary period.
Effective December 10th,	1983 employees who have
already qualified for the Disability Waiver will retain their eligibility for present coverage. Those employees who, on December 10th, 1983, are in receipt of weekly Indemnity, W.C.B. wage loss or Long Team Disability income will continue to be eligible for the Group Life Disability Waiver that was in force prior to the above noted date.
After December 10th, 1983 the Group Life waiver of premium clause will teaminate at age sixty-five (65) .
Coverage will be portable for all employees covered by collective agreements between members of CONIFER, Forest Industrial Relations Lianited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, Weldvood of Canada Lianited, Northwood Pulp and Tianber Ltd, , and Canfor Limited, and the IWA-CANADA, and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the Industa^.
i) Lay-off coverage for employees with more than three (3) nonth's seniority, but less than one (1) year's seniority will be three (3) months. Lay-off coverage for employees with one (1) or more year's seniority will be six (6) months.
ii) In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regular full-tiane employment. An employee returns to regular full-tiane employment when he/she is employed for ten (10) working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
- 47
ARTICLE XVII, Section 2 k) Cont'd
iii) In addition, an employee who returns to work for at least one (1) working day and less than ten (10) working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any lay-off coverage to which he/she was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
1)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of
employment.
Section 3:	Dental Plan
A Dental Plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
a) Basic dental services (Plan ‘A’)	- Plan pays 80% of
approved schedule of fees.
b)
c)
d)
e)
f >
g)
Prosthetics, Crowns and Bridges (Plan'B'} - Plan pays 50% of approved schedule of fees.
Orthodontic (Plan 'C') - Plan pays 50% of approved schedule of fees. (Lifetime maximum - $2,000.00) No waiting period required.
Total premium cost to be borne by the Company.
Eligibility shall be the first of the month following date of completion of the employee's probationary period.
Coverage will be portable for all employees covered by collective agreements between members of CONIFER. Forest Industrial Relations Limited, Interior F< res ux> Relati) Associatic i,	ad f Canada
Lai Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Canfor Limited id	the «	h	i i	iall be no	l 1
ar	r	fi	1	changing e	3 2
Lt the	y
i)
{- overac for ss than one (j year ) :	Lai	>£f c
2	< 1) or m< i j ar it
.<	with
rit ] be three for sroplo} e with ty ■ ill b« six (6)
- 48 -
ARTICLE XVII, Section 3 g) Cont'd
ii) In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he/she is employed for ten (10) working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
iii)	In addition, an employee who returns to work for at least one (1) working day and less than ten (10) working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any lay-off coverage to which he/she was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
h)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of
employment.
ARTICLE XVIII - PENSION PLAK
Section 1:
The Parties agree to establish a Pension Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement of the Pension Sub-Committee dated August 17th, 1977.
Section 2:
a)	Effective July 1, 1992 the Plan will be funded by Employer contributions of two dollars and forty cents
($2.40) per hour per employee per hour worked.
b)	Effective July I, 1993 Employee contributions of ten cents ($0.10) per hour per employee per hour worked will be added to the above contribution rate.
ARTICLE XTX - LOMG TERM DISABILITY
Effective July 1st, 1982 a Long Term Disability Plan be provided based on the following general principles:
a)	The Plan to become effective July 1st, 1982.
ARTICLE XIX Cont'd.
b)	The Plan to be funded on a fifty/flfty (50/50) cost sharing basis with contributions of twenty cents
($0.20) per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute ten cents ($0.10) and the employee will contribute ten cents ($0.10).
Effective July 1, 1993 contributions will be increased by an additional two cents ($0.02) per hour worked for a total of twenty-two cents ($0.22) per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute eleven cents ($0.11) per hour and the employee will contribute eleven cents ($0.11) per hour.
c)	A Board of Trustees will be constituted with equal representation from the Union and the Industry, to be responsible for establishing the terns of the Plan and the on-going administration.
d)	The Trustees will select a qualified actuary to assist them and to ensure the establishment of actuarially sound reserves to fund the benefits provided by the Plan.
e)	The Trustees will enter into a Trust Agreement which will include provision for a procedure to settle any major dispute that may arise with regard to the provisions of the Plan.
ARTICLE XX - JOB TRAINING
Job Training Program will be in accordance with Supplement No. 3 which is attached hereto and forma part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXI - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Section l:
a) Apprenticeship Training Programs will be in accordance with Supplements No. 4A and 4B which are attached hereto and form part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXI, Section 1 Cont'd
b)	Fares, Lost Time Pay and School Expenses are to be paid
by the appropriate government authorities as part of the cost of the Apprenticeship Plan with the exception that the employer shall pay the apprentice while attending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Section 2: Apprenticeship selection Tests
The Parties agree to meet with representatives of the British Columbia Apprenticeship Branch for the purpose of developing an appropriate test for applicants who bid for apprenticeship vacancies.
The test will be used to test applicants prior to selection in accordance with the Letter of Understanding titled 'Selection of Apprentice Procedure' dated December 17th, 1980. It is understood that the position will be awarded to the senior applicant who passes the test.
Section 3:
A Committee will be established to review and upgrade the Apprenticeship Training Program.
Where applicable, employees in logging operations shall be paid at straight time rates for time spent on Company property in excess of eight and one-half (8 1/2) hours in any one day between leaving the designated marshalling point, to be agreed upon, and returning to said point, provided always that the said eight and one-half (8 1/2) hour period is based upon one-half (1/2) hour for lunch and may be extended to a maximum of a further fifteen (15) minutes where the lunch time exceeds one-half (1/2) hour.
- 51 -
ARTICLE XXIII ~ TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE Section 1:	Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the union not less than six (6) months in advance of intent to institute material changes in working methods of facilities which would involve the discharge or laying-off of employees.
Section 2 Rate Adjustment
a)	An employee who is set back to a lover paid job because of mechanization, technological change or automation will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular jcb. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply. However, such employee will have the option of terminating his/her employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 3 below, providing he/she exercises this option within the above referred to six (6) month period.
b)	Following an application of a) above, where an employee is set back to a lover paid job because c£ an application of Article VIII - Seniority brought on by mechanization, technological change or automation he/she will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular jcb. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply.
section 3:	Severance Pay
Employees discharged, laid off or displaced from their regular job because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of one (l) week's pay for each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) week's pay. This Section shall not apply to employees covered by Section 2 b) above.
52
ARTICLE XXIV - SAFETY EQUIPMENT
Section 1:
The Company shall replace such equipment at no cost to the employee when these articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair and when they are required by the Company or the Worker's Compensation Board:
1.	Aprons
2.	Hard Hats and Liners
3.	Eye, Ear and Nose Protective Equipment
section 2:
where the following articles of equipment are required to be used by the Workers' Compensation Board, the Company shall, at no cost to the employee:
Supply new employees with the articles of equipment as required.
Supply employees moving to another department with the articles of equipment they require and that they do not have at the time of the move, and
replace articles of equipment when those articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair.
That is to say:
1.	Aprons
2.	Hard Hats
3.	Eye, Ear and Nose protective equipment
4.	Gloves
i)
ii)
Ui)
- 53 -
ARTICLE XXIV. Section 2 Cont'd.
Notwithstanding the foregoing all articles of equipment to be replaced only when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair: otherwise the replacement will be at the expense of the employee.
Section 3:
Where a Company has been supplying safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date of this Agreement it will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
section 4s
The employer shall make coveralls available and maintain same for use by End Sprayers, Panel Sprayers, Oilers, Filer-Grindermen, Power House employees, and Tradesmen.
Section 5:	Caulk Boots
An employee who is required to wear caulk boots by the Workers' Compensation Board shall receive annually a caulk boot allowance of one hundred dollars ($100.00) .
i)	If he/she has six (6) months' or more seniority, or
ii) Upon obtaining six (6) months' seniority, iii) Seasonal lay-offs shall not interfere with the qualifying period herein.
ARTICLE XXV - TOOL INSURANCE
The Company at its cun expense shall insure for damage or loss caused by fire,or flood, the tools of its employees which are required in the performance of their work. This provision for tool insurance shall also apply to loss by theft where the tools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of fifty dollars ($50.00) in respect of each employee's claim.
54
ARTICLE XXVI - FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
Firefighting Agreement will be in accordance with Supplement Ho. 5 which is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXVII - SAWMILL JOB EVALUATION
Section X:
a)	The Parties to this Agreement mutually agree to
implement one jobevaluation program for the sawmilling sector, effective September 1st. 1979 in accordance with the principles and procedures set out in a manual dated December 1971 and entitled 'Interior Sawmill Job Evaluation Manual' as amended July 1973 and as further amended July 1974:	(but hereinafter referred to as the
B. C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Manual) and to exclude any categories not effected by Sawmill Job Evaluation.
b)	The attached Supplement No. 6 which provides for the administration of the program between the Parties to this Agreement shall fora part of the collective agreement effective September 1st, 1979.
c)	The process of job evaluation will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the B. C. Northern Interior sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan which shall include the attached wage curve, the present manual, present guidelines for manual interpretation, existing and/or new Benchmarks, and existing gradings on record serving as a basis for subsequent evaluation unless amended as provided for in the Supplement No.6.
d)	All categories and records shall stand as presently rate matched (job analysis) and/or evaluated in the Northern Interior operations involved in the B.C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan, except where requests are submitted for evaluation or re-evaluation consistent with the principles and procedures of the Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan.
section a:
The point range and increments for the twenty-seven (27)
groups in the Sawmill and Poleyard Wage Curve are as follows!
ARTICLE
XXVII, Section 2 Cont'd
Effective
Group	July 1, 1991
Level Points Increm. Rates
Effective July 1, 1993 Increm.	Rates
1	0- 60 _________
2	61-	70	.07
3	71-	80	.10
4	81-	95	.13
5	96-115	.09
6	116-140	.15
7	141-165	.12
8	166-195	.19
9	196-230	.16
10	231-270	.17
11	271-320	.19
12	321-370	.20
13	371-420	.18
14	421-470	.20
15	471-520	.22
16	521-570	.24
17	571-620	.22
18	621-670	.21
19	671-730	.21
20	731-790	.26
21	791-850	.23
22	851-910	.24
23	911-970	.26
24	971-1030	.26
25	1031-1090	.52
26	1091-1150	.53
27	1151-1210	.59
$17.07	___ $17.92
17.14	.07	17.99
17.24	.10	18.09
17.37	.13	18.22
17.46	.09	18.31
17.61	.15	18.46
17.73	.12	18.58
17.92	.19	18.77
18.08	.16	18.93
18.25	.17	19.10
18.44	.19	19.29
18.64	.20	19.49
18.82	.18	19.67
19.02	.20	19.87
19.24	.22	20.09
19.48	.24	20.33
19.70	.22	20.55
19.91	.21	20.76
20.12	.21	20.97
20.38	.26	21.23
20.61	.23	21.46
20.85	.24	21.70
21.11	.26	21.96
21.37	.26	22.22
21.89	.52	22.74
22.42	.53	23.27
23.01	.59	23.86
section 3:
a)
b)

The base rate in all Wage Supplements shall be that set out in Section 1 b) of Article V -Wages, and shall be the minimum rate.
Incumbents in job categories for which the vage rate is reduced as a result of job evaluation (hereinafter referred to as 'Fed Circle Jobs') shall continue at the original rate.
The Parties agree to work towards implementationof the revised B.C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan by July 1, 1993.
- 56 -
ARTICLE XXVIII - PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
Section 1:	laplaaentation
The Plywood Job Evaluation program shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Supplement No. 7 which is attached hereto and fonas part of this Agreement.
Section 2 Point Range and Increment
The point range and increments for the twenty-seven (27) groups in the Plywood Wags Curve are as follows:
Group
Level
Effective July 1, 1991 Points Incren. ]
Effective July 1, 1993 Increm. Rates
1	a- 81	___
2	82- 91	.11
3	92-101	.13
4	102-111	.11
5	112-121	.18
6	122-131	.13
7	132-141	.19
8	142-151	.16
9	152-161	.17
10	162-171	.18
11	172-181	.18
12	182-191	.16
13	192-201	.19
14	202-211	.21
15	212-221	.18
16	222-231	.21
17	232-241	.21
18	242-251	.21
19	252-261	.21
20	262-271	.27
21	272-281	.29
22	282-291	.27
23	292-301	.27
24	302-311	.27
25	312-321	.28
26	322-331	.27
27	332-341	.28
$17.07	---- $17.92
17.18	.11	18.03
17.31	.13	18.16
17.42	.11	18.27
17.60	.18	16.45
17.73	.13	18.58
17.92	.19	18.77
18.08	.16	18.93
18.25	.17	19.10
16.43	.18	19.28
18.61	.18	19.46
18.77	.16	19.62
18.96	.19	19.81
19.17	.21	20.02
19.35	.18	20.20
19.56	.21	20.41
19.77	.21	20.62
19.98	.21	20.63
20.19	.21	21.04
20.46	.27	21.31
20.75	.29	21.60
21.02	.27	21.87
21.29	.27	22.14
21.56	.27	22.41
21.84	.28	22.69
22.11	.27	22.96
22.39	.28	23.24
57
ARTICLE XXVIII Cont'd
Section 3:	Red Circle Jobs
Incumbents in job categories for which the wage rate is reduced as a result of job evaluation (hereinafter referred to as 'red circle jobs') shall continue at the original rate subject to the provisions of the appropriate supplement (Plywood Job Evaluation, Article 10 - Red Circle Jobs) .
mTTCT.tt rnX - POWERHOUSE TRAIMIHG-PROGRAM
A Coxrmittee shall be established during the tern of the 1977-1979 Agreement to review the Powerhouse Training Program.
ARTICLE XXX - MEW CONCEPTS COMMITTEE
A Committee shall be established to study new concepts, including Industrial Democracy, cf ways to improve labour management relations in the Northern Interior Forest Products Industry during the term of the 1977-1979 Agreement.
ABTIOB mi - TROUBLED EMPLOYEE PROGRAM
A Joint Coxrmittee to be established, consisting of two (2) members from the IWA-CANADA, and two (2) members from the Industry, to study the practicability of a Troubled Employee Program.
The Coxrmittee to report to the Parties no later than September 1st, 1980.
XftTTCT.R CTXII - FORESTRY ENVIROHMEHTAL COMMITTEE
A Forestry Environmental Committee shall be established by the Company and the Local Union.
The details concerning the structure, operation and terms of reference must be agreed to by the Company and the Local Union prior to implementation.
- 58 -
ARTTCT.K XXXIII - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
section 1:
The Parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the first (1st) day of July 1991 to the thirtieth (30th) day of June 1994, and thereafter, from year to year unless four (4) months written notice of contrary intention is given by the Parties. The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the head office of the Party of the First Part or at the Local Office of the Local Officers of the Union, Party of the Second Part, at least four (4) months prior to the expiry of any yearly period. If no agreement is reached at the expiration of this contract and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time that a subsequent Agreement is reached, or until negotiations are discontinued by either Party.
Section 2:
The Parties hereto agree that the operation of Section €6, of Subsection (2) of the Industrial Relations Act, is excluded from this Agreement.
DATED this	day Of
FOR:
LIGNUM LTD.
6<Zeut&
1992
FOR:
IWA-CANADA, LOCAL 1-425, C.L.C.
Financial Secretary
T
- 59 -
SUPPLEMENT HO. 1 WAGE SCALE
EVALUATED CATEGORIES
The individual Wage Scale applicable to this particular Agreement, when signed by Company and Union, shall be attached to this section.
NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES
TRADES - Manufacturing
Auto Mechanic 1st Year Auto Mechanic 2nd Year Auto Mechanic 1st Year Auto Mechanic 2nd Year Auto Hechanic 2nd Year Auto Mechanic Auto Mechanic
Helper,
Helper.
Improver
Improver (1st 6 months) Improver (2nd 6 months)
- Certified
$18,17
18.435
18.92
19.47
20.255
21.88
22.09
$19.02
19.285
19.77
20.32
21.105
22.73
22.94
Carpenter Helper, 1st Year	$18.17
Carpenter Helper, 2nd Year	18.435
Carpenter Improver, 1st Year	18.92
Carpenter Improver, 2nd Year (1st 6 months)	19.47
Carpenter Improver, 2nd Year (2nd 6 months)	20.255
Carpenter	21.88
Carpenter - certified	22,09
§19.02
19.285
19.77
20.32
21.105
22.73
22.94
Supplement No. 1 Cont'd
i
july.-1/Si July 1/23
Trades - Manufacturing Cont'd
Electrician Helper,
1st Year	$18.17
Electrician Helper.
2nd Year	18.435
Electrician Improver,
1st Year	18.92
Electrician Improver,
2nd Year	(1st 6	months)	19.47
Electrician Improver,
2nd Year	(2nd 6	months)	20.42
Electrician	22.065
Electrician -	Certified	22.275
$19.02
19,285
19.77
20.32
21.27
22.915
23.125
Heavy Duty Mechanic Helper, 1st Year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Helper, 2nd Year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 1st Year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 2nd Year (1st 6 months)
Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 2nd Year (2nd 6 months)
Heavy Duty Mechanic
Heavy Duty Mechanic - Certified
$18.17
18.435
18.92
19.47
20.42
22.065
22.275
$19.02
19.285
19.77
20.32
21.27
22.915
23.125
Machinist Helper,
1st Year	$18,265
Machinist Helper,
2nd Year	18.525
Machinist Inprover,
1st Year	19.00
Machinist Improver
2nd Year	(1st	6	months)	19.56
Machinist Inprover,
2nd Year	(2nd	6	months)	20.42
Machinist	22.065
Machinist - certified	22.275
$19,115
19.375
19.85
20.41
21.27
22.915
23.125
61
Supplement No. 1 Cont'd
JWlY 1/31
J.aly-3./93
Trades - Manufacturing Cont'd.
Millwright Helper,
1st Year	$18.17	$19.02
Millwright Helper,
2nd Year	18.435	19.285
Millwright Improver,
1st Year	18.92	19.77
Millwright Improver,
2nd Year	(1st	6	months)	19,47	20.32
Millwright Improver,
2nd Year	(2nd	6	months)	20.42	21.27
Millwright	22.065	22.915
Millwright - Certified	22.275	23.125
Painter Helper,
1st Year	$18.17	$19.02
Painter Improver,
1st Year	18.525	19.375
Painter Improver,
2nd Year	(1st 6	months)	19.00	19.85
Painter Improver,
2nd Year	(2nd 6	months)	19.97	20.82
Painter	21.71	22.56
Painter - Certified .	21.92	22.77
Stearnfitter/Pipefitter Helper, 1st Year
Steamfitter/Pipefitter Helper, 2nd Year
Steamfitter/Pipefitter Improver, 1st Year
Stearafitter/Pipefitter Improver, 2nd Year (1st 6 months) Steamfitter/Pipefitter Improver, 2nd Year (2nd 6 months) Steamfitter/Pipefitter Steamfitter/Pipefitter - Certified
$18.17
18.435
18.92
19.47
20.42
22.065
22.275
$19.02
19.285
19,77
20.32
21.27
22.915
23.125
Supplement Ho. 1 Cont'd
Trades
Manufacturing Cont'd
Welder
Welder - Certified
Welder - Certified & Qualified
$21.88
22.09
22.275
$22.73
22.94
23.125
MTSeET.TAirEOiJS CATEGORIES - Manufacturing
Grinderman
Oiler
2nd Class Engineer 3rd Class Engineer 4th Class Engineer Fireman (4th Class Ticket) Fireman
First Aid Man - Yob Rate Plus 'C' Ticket 'B' Ticket 'A' Ticket ‘AA1 Ticket Labourer
$19.37	$20.22
18.59	19.44
23.38	24.23
22.275	23.125
21.02	21.87
19.485	20.335
18.065	18.915
riUyg. RQPtt. CATEGORIES
Saw Fitter, Helper Saw Fitter -1st Year Completed Saw Fitter -last 6 months saw Fitter
Saw Fitter - with certificate
$18.17
18.66
19.865
21.71
21.92
$19.02
19.51
20.715
22.56
22.77
circular Saw Filer Helper
circular Saw Filer
Circular Saw Filer - Certified
$21.92
22.065
22.275
$22.77
22.915
23.125
Benchman Helper Benchman
Benchman - with certificate
$22,275
22.75
22.96
$23,125
23.60
23.81
Supplement Nb. 1 Cont'd
July .1/9,1 July. 1/23
TRADES - Logging
Auto Mechanic Helper,
1st Year	$18.31
Auto Mechanic Helper.
2nd Year	18.58
Auto Mechanic Improver
1st Year	19.06
Auto Mechanic Improver
2nd Year	(1st 6	months)	19.62
Auto Mechanic Improver
2nd Year	(2nd 6	months)	20.335
Auto Mechanic	21.98
Auto Mechanic	- Certified	22.19
$19.16
19.43
19.91
20.47
21.185
22.83
23.04
Carpenter Helper, 1st Year	$18.31	$19.16
Carpenter Helper, 2nd Year	18.58	19.43
Carpenter Improver, 1st Year	19.06	19.91
Carpenter Improver, 2nd Year (1st 6 months)	19.62	20.47
carpenter Improver, 2nd Year (2nd 6 months)	20.335	21.185
Carpenter	21.98	22.83
Carpenter - Certified	22,19	23.04
Electrician Helper, 1st Year	$18.31
Electrician Helper, 2nd Year	18.58
Electrician Improver, 1st Year	19.06
Electrician Improver, 2nd Year (1st 6 months)	19.62
Electrician Improver, 2nd Year (2nd 6 months)	20.335
Electrician	21.98
Electrician - Certified	22.19
$19.16
19.43
19.91
20.47
21.185
22.83
23.04
Supplement Ho. 1 Cont'd
July 1/91 July i/aa
Trades - Logging Cont'd
Heavy Duty Mechanic Helper, 1st Year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Helper, 2nd Year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 1st Year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 2nd Year (1st 6 months) Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 2nd Year (2nd 6 months) Heavy Duty Mechanic Heavy Duty Mechanic - Certified
$18.31
18.58
19.06
19.62
20.495
22.155
22.365
$19.16
19.43
19.91
20.47
21.345
23.005
23.215
Machinist Helper,	
1st Year	$18.31
Machinist Helper,	
2nd Year	18.58
Machinist Improver,	
1st Year	19.06
Machinist Improver,	
2nd Year (1st 6 months)	19.62
Machinist Improver,	
2nd Year (2nd 6 months)	20.335
Machinist	21.98
Machnist - certified	22.19
$19.16
19.43
19.91
20.47
21.185
22.83
23.04
Welder
Welder - Certified
$21.98	$22.83
22.19	23.04
Supplement No. 1 Cont'd
July .1/91
Ally-1/33.
LPSCIHg CATEQQEY-H&GS. .BAXES
Group No. 1	$17.29	$18.14
Labourer
Bull Cook (Pays Board)
Flunty (Pays Board)
Watchman
Group No. 2	$17.44	$18.29
Tree Planter
Sro.UP.JO., -3	$17.61	$18.46
STOMP-HO. A	$17.76	$18.61
Crummy Driver Log Bander
Swamper (Shovel, Cat Grader)
Rock Driller-Helper (Grade Construction)
Chain Man Chokerman
Group No. 5	$17.94	$18.79
Boom Man Boomstick Borer Compass Man
Group WO. 6	$16.14	$16.99
Scaler (On Permit)
Pile Driver Helper -Truck Driver (Utility)
Towboat Operator Assistant
supplement no. 1 Cont'd
July_l/91	July 1/93
Logging Category Rates Cont'd
gfOMP K<?t 7	$18.36	$19.21
Hiab Truck Driver
General Service Truck Driver (3 to 5 ton)
Povderaan - W.C.B. Ticket (Grade Construction)
Limber Topper
Second Cook (Board Supplied)
Small Mobile Drill Operator (Grade Constructionl Baker (Board Supplied)
$18.56	$19.43
Gravel Truck Driver Cat Operator - Under D6 Backhoe Operator (Grade Construction) Front End Loader (Under 2 yards)
Booa or Dozer Boat Operator
$18.79	$19.64
Skidder Operator - Rubber Tired
Head Cook (Board Supplied) (Under 30 men)
Gradall Operator
Group Ho. 10	$19.06	$19.91
Front Bud Loader - 2 yard and over
Skidder Operator - Rubber Tired/with Grapple
Flail Delimber
Pile Driver operator
Cat Operator - D6
Road Grader Operator
Skidder Operator - Soft Tracks
Supplement No. 1 Cont'd
lagging Category Rates Cont'd
STQ.UP flOt U	$19.34	$20.19
Head Cook [Board Supplied) (30 men and over)
Rock Driller - W.C.B. Ticket [Grade Construction)
Scaler (Licensed)
Towboat Operator
Truck Driver - Trailer Rig (8 to 11 foot bunks)
Truck Driver - tow Bed
Cat Operator - D7 (Grade Construction and Logging; Skidder Operator - Soft Tracks/with Grapple
$19.67	$20.52
Tree Shearer Operator
Shovel Operator (Grade Construction)
Truck Driver - Trailer Rig (12 foot bunks and over) Bucker Tree Length
Sroap...No»_ 13	$20.02	$20.e?
Heel Boon Operator/Hydraulic or Tongs Front End Log Loader/Woods
Cat operator - D8 (Grade Construction and Logging)
GT0HP- N.P v 15
$20.38	$21.23
$20.76	$21.61
cat Operator D9 (Grade Construction and Logging) Feller Buncher Operator
Crane or Heel Boom Operator/with Grapple Bucker Log Length Sample Bucker
GrOHB HO. 1$	$21.12	$21.97
Grapple Yarder operator
Supplement Nb. 1 Cont'd
July 1/91	July,lZ22
Logging category Rates Cont'd
Miscellaneous
Faller/Bucker	$28.32	$29.17
Faller/Bucker (owns and
maintains saws)	18.00/day	18.00/day
Truck Driver - Trailer Rig
Pup Trailers	Truck rate plus 40 cents per hour
Pre-load Trailers	Truck rate plus 20 cents per hour
chargehand	Job rate plus 25 cents per hour
First Aid Man	Job rate plus:	
'C' Ticket	.30	.30
'B' Ticket	.40	.40
‘A1 Ticket	.50	.50
'AA Ticket	.60	.60
Red Circled Jabs
a)	The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circled jobs, the said list to include the name of the job category filled, the negotiated rate for the job and the actual rate paid.
b)	Employees on red circle rate who are promoted to a higher group shall regain the red circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher group.
c)	Employees holding red circle jobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the negotiated rate for the jcib to which they are assigned* If at a later date an employee is reassigned to his/her former job he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
d)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the company, he/she shall retain his/her existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to his/her regular job the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
Supplement No. 1 Cont'd
July: 1/91
July .1/93
Logging Category Rates Cont'd
$18.14	$18.99
Camp Utility Man Tallyman
Group Mo. 8	$18.56	$19.41
Warehouseman
group HP t 11	$19.34	$20.19
Road Grader Operator (No. 16 Cat) (Grade Construction) Ferry Operator
SUPPLEMENT XtQ . -2
ADJUSTMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS
In connection with the interpretation of certain clauses in the contract between IWA-CANADA and certain Interior Operators, the following interpretations of the Contract have been agreed upon:
section 1
With respect to the definition of the two categories Lumber grader and Boomman, the following is agreed upon:
Lumber Grader:	One who grades for shipment
Boomman:	One who makes up or breaks down booms or
who grades logs.
section 2:
a) With respect to Call-time as covered in Article VII, Section 7 or section 8, the following understanding has been reached.
If workers present themselves for work, and due to any conditions beyond their control, there is no work available they shall receive two hours' pay unless sufficient warning has been given cancelling the work call for that day. However, if there is e possibility that work may be available within two (2) hours of the regular starting time, the employer may request employees to stay at their place of employment during the call-time period.
In the case of logging camp employees, the interpretation of call-time shall be as follows:
employees will not be deemed to have been called for work if they do not leave the camp or the assembly point except those employees using their cwvn means of transportation who present themselves for work not having sufficient warning.
- 71 -
Supplement No. 2, Section 2 a) Cont'd.
Sawmill employees being transported by Company vehicle shall be covered by the above clause.
b)	It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been
given cancelling the work call for the first or day shift, provided notice has been given over the appropriate local radio station(s), wherever possible the previous evening but not later than one and one-half (11/2) hours before shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hoar (1/2) period. It shall be deemed sufficient notice cancelling call for work for night-shift when notice has been given over the appropriate local radio station(s), during the hours 12 noon to 1 p*m. , but not later than three (3) hours before shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour (1/2) period. The above shall apply only within a thirty (30) mile radius of Prince George.
section 3:
Interpretation of Article VIII. Sectlen_2 si
This section means that the application of seniority as it is presently applied in the individual plant would remain in effect unless it is or has been changed by agreement between the Company and the Union.
The word 'plant' in this section means a sawmill, a planer mill or a logging operation.
It is agreed that the foregoing understanding shall be of the same force and effect as if they had been written into the actual contract and this Section of Adjustment and Interpretation shall form Supplement No. 2 and be part of the Contract.
JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS
A.	APPLICATION
1. The following principles are intended as a guide and basis for negotiations of training programs at the operational level between the Company and Local Union.
B.	POSTING
2. Training positions to be posted for a minimum period of two (2) consecutive working days.
3♦ An employee absent on approved leave of absence, lay-off, illness or accident at the time a Trainee position is posted, will be allowed to make application within three (3) working days of his/her return, but in no event later than fourteen (14) calendar days of the posting of such Trainee position. However, such employee may make application through a Job Steward or by written notice to the Company while he/she is away on leave of absence.
C.	SELECTION AND TRAINING
4.	Selection of trainees to be on the basis of seniority, as provided for in Article vni of the collective Agreement.
5.	The Company should select a qualified person to provide the training with due regard to ability to communicate effectively.
73
Supplement No. 3 Item C Cont'd
6.	The Company to notify the Plant Committee in writing when a trainee is judged to be qualified, or if he/she is removed from the training program because of incompetence.
D.	RATES OF PAY
7.	Rates of pay to apply to trainees during the training period to be their regular job rate, except that they shall not receive more than the established rate for the job for which they are being trained, and subject to appropriate exceptions for piece work employees.
B. SENIORITY
8.	seniority to follow the general principles of Article vm of the Collective Agreement, with special provisions where necessary to deal with special problems of the operation.
9^	If, during the training period, the trainee
wishes to discontinue training, or fails to qualify, he/she should return to the job previously held by him/her.
F. REVISION AND TERMINATION
10. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to vary, cancel, or otherwise affect existing training agreements.
- 74 -
SUPPLEMENT NO. 4A
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM between
COUNCIL QN NORTHERN INTERIOR FOREST EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS (CONIFER)
and
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424
in co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP & INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
ARTTCT.R T - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed by the Company as Journeymen, Improvers and Helpers in respect of trades named in Article II herein.
ARTICLE II - TRADES
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Millwrights
Heavy Duty Mechanics
Steaafitter/Pipefitter
Machinist
Electrician
Welder
4 year program 4 year program 4 year program 4 year program 4 year program to be established
Supplement No. 4A Cont'd
Section 1:	Collective Agreement
All provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this Program.
Section 2:	Right to continue
Once started in the Program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he/she passes all of the prescribed tests and work is available to him/her.
Section 3:	Tests
Upon completion of each period of training in the vocational school, an Apprentice will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice will be
?iven a second (2nd) opportunity, but in the event of failure o pass on the occasion c£ the second (2nd) such test, he/she shall be required to withdraw from the Program.
section 4 $ Meaning of 'Year'
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Improver it shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days: the said period to include time spent at the vocational school.
Section 5:	Training Tine Entitlement
Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice who is hired by the Company and who has had training in another apprenticeship plan will be given recognition of such training time.
section 6:	On-the-Job Raining
The Company will ensure that Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training.
76 -
Supplement Nb. 4A Cont'd
section 1:	seniority
when the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII of the Collective Agreement.
Section 2 Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned as Helpers for a three (3) month probationary period, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
section 3 Entrance standards
Entrance to the Program will in all cases be subject to the applicant meeting the standards required for acceptance by the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
section 4 Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpers and Improvers employed by the Company must enter the Program. Helpers and Improvers who cannot qualify in this Program will be reclassified as Labourers with no reduction in rate of pay until such tine as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain a job with equal or a higher rate of pay.
Section 5:	Age Limit
There will be no age Unit for applicants.
Supplement No. 4A Cont'd
Section 1:	Assignment as Helper
All successful applicants, except Welder Apprentices (see appropriate appendix), will be registered as Apprentices and be assigned as Helpers for an eleven (11) month period, prior to attending vocational school, unless the applicants’ previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
A program for the aforementioned Welder Apprentices will be established by June 1st, 1968.
Section 2:	4-Year Schedule
Rating	At Operation
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year
Helper
Helper
Improver
Improver
first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months
At school
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Section 3:	3-Year schedule
At School
First Year Helper Second Year Improver Third Year Improver
first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Section 4:	Electricians
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 2 and 3 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shall be required to take eight (8) weeks at school during each year of the Program instead of four (4) with the period in the operation reduced accordingly.
Supplement No. 4A, Article V Cont'd
section 5:	Passing Test
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribed test before promotion frcm Helper to Improver.
Section 6:	Journeyman Qualifications
"Subject to the conditions of this Section as listed below it
is agreed that following completion of the period of required
training and upon becoming certified, the journeyman shall
receive the certified journeyman's rate of pay."
Conditions under which the above will apply:
a)	Only to a journeyman who has gone through the indentured apprenticeship training program under the sponsorship of the Company for which he/she is working.
b)	That he/she is working in the maintenance department.
c)	That all work normally done by the maintenance department is being performed by the persons employed in the maintenance department.
d)	That nothing in this clause shall prohibit the laying off of journeymen, helpers or apprentices if they are not required.
e)	That a journeyman may, when facing lay-off, choose to exercise his/her seniority into categories outside of the maintenance area at the job rate if his/her seniority and ability entitle him/her to do bo.
section 7:	vocational School Delay
If any of the periods provided for in Sections 2, 3, or 4 herein are exceeded by reason of vocational school facilities being unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements.
Supplement No. 4A Cont'd
ARTICLE VI - WAGE RATES
Section 1:	Rates and Increments
a)	Wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement.
b)	An Apprentice who passes his/her test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during this second (2nd) term year as a Helper.
c)	The Wage Rate for an Improver shall be that as specified in the Wage Supplement.
d)	An Apprentice who passes a test in the fourth (4th) period of vocational training shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his/her second term as an Improver.
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen, and who are certified as such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade as agreed to between the Company and the Union.
section 2:	Expenses
Fares, Lost Time Pay and School Expenses are to be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as part of the coat of the Apprenticeship Plan, with the exception that the employer shall pay the Apprentice while attending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
The employer's contribution for the last two (2) weeks at school will be paid upon the employee's return to work.
Section 3:	Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one of the tests under this Program, through no fault of his/her own, the delay shall not prejudice his/her right to wage increments provided for in Section l herein.
Supplement No. 4A Cont'd
ARTICLE VII - ADVISORY BOARD
section 1 constitution
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two (2) representatives of the Industry: two (2) from the Union, one (1) representing the Vocational School and one (1) from the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
section 2:	Responsibility
The Board shall be responsible for advising the Department of Labour, Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch regarding the content of tests, standards of marking and the school curriculum with respect to the registered Apprentices.
The Board shall not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests.
ARTTCT.R VTH - GEHERAL PROVISIONS
section 1:
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 2:
Persons employed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesmen Qualification Exam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
section 3:
If a present Journeyman fails to pass the test for a voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification Certificate, he/she can then become indentured as an Apprentice at no reduction in rate of pay.
Supplement Mb. 4A, Article VIII Cont'd
Section 4:
There will be a three (3) man committee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification, or who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualification Act. The committee will also determine what vocational training is necessary for persons indentured as Apprentices. Representation on the committee shall consist of the following:
a)	One (1) representative from the Union
b)	One (1) representative from the Industry
c)	One (1) representative from the Apprenticeship Branch.
Vocational training will be conducted during day courses. Textbooks and study material will be made available when required.
ARTTCTiB IX - TQPLS
Section 1:
All Journeymen tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for the Journeyman rate, unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the Journeyman.
Section 2
The Improver shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of building up the necessary tools to equip himself/herself for the job.
Section 3:
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools, and shall use those designated to him/her. However, in his/her own interest he/she should commence the process of building up a tool kit.
- 82 -
SUPPLEMENT HQ, 4B
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM in respect to the TRADES OF FILING AND FITTING
BEIWEEN:	COUNCIL ON NORTHERN INTERIOR FOREST EMPLOYMENT
RELATIONS (CONIFER)
AND:	IWA-CANADA, LOCAL 1-424 C.L.C.
GENERAL PRTMCTPT.WS
1. Plan 'A' - Saw Fitter's Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of the Saw Fitter which is defined as follows:
To be competent to fit all types of saws, bandsaws, gang saws, chain saws, etc.
a)	Operate, repair and adjust all saw sharpening equipment and tools.
b)	Basic techniques in welding of saws
c)	Maintain guides and water lines
d)	Basic techniques in benching of circular saws, slashers and trim saws.
Note; It is agreed that the Parties will not use the training program to change the job content of the jobs of the present saw fitters.
Plan 'B' - circular Saw Filer Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of a circular Saw Filer which is defined as follows:
Supplement No. 4B, Item 1 Cont'd
Must be a qualified Saw Fitter and be competent to bench all circular and gang saws (tensioning, weld cracks and weld on teeth): be able to repair and maintain all filing room equipment: also must have a working knowledge of allied mill equipment, only as it applies to his/her job.
Plan 'C' - Benchman Apprenticeship Training Progran
To cover the trade of a Benchman which is defined as follows:
Must be a qualified saw Fitter and circular saw Filer, in addition be able to bench circular and band saws. Must have a working knowledge of all allied sawmill
machinery including the lining up of head rigs and
grinding of band wheels.
2.	The Parties agree that the object of the above Plans is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed as filers and fitters in the Industry.
3.	The noraal period of training will be:
Safety is an important part of the training program as outlined below:	as such, it forms an integral part of
each phase of the program.
a)	Saw Fitters
Pre-apprenticeship Training - In-plant three (3) months.
1st team:	a)	3 weeks at school,
depending on class size -then writes an examination.
b)	11 months
training.
in-plant
a4 -
Supplement Mb. 4B, Item 3 a) Cont'd
2nd tern:	a) 3 weeks at school - then
writes an examination, b) 8 months	in-plant
training.
3rd tern:	a) 3 weeks at school - then
writes an examination * if he/she passes the test, he/she	becomes
certified as	a Saw
Fitter.
b) Circular Sav Filers
Must spend a minimum of three (3) months
in-plant training as		an apprentice circular Saw
Filer.		
1st tera:	a)	4 weeks at school, then writes an examination.
	b)	6 months in-plant training.
2nd term-	a)	2 weeks at school, then writes an exanination. If he/she passes the test, he/she becomes a Certified Sav Filer.
c)	Bondman
Must spend a ninimun of three (3) months in-plant training as an apprentice Benchman.
1st term-	a)	3 weeks at school, then writes an examination.
	b)	11 months in-plant training.
2nd term-	a)	2 weeks at school, then writes an examination.
		If he/she passes the test, he/she becomes a Certified Benchman.
a5
Supplement No. 4B, Item 3 c) Cont'd
Note: The above periods of in-school training may be altered by mutual agreement, subject to the experience in the Industry and in consultation with the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Education.
4.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement will be applicable to apprentices in the Plan.
5.	Once started in this Plan, the apprentice, subject
however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, will have the right to continue in any one (1) program providing he/she passes all of the prescribed tests and work being available to him/her.
6.	a) Upon completion of each period of training in
the Vocation School, an apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the apprentice Saw Fitter will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test he/she will be required to withdraw from the Plan. Any Saw Fitter apprentice who falls to qualify at any stage in the Program will be allowed to apply his/her seniority as it is applied in a lay-off. On completion of the third period of training in Vocational School an apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to pass a test, on passing the test he/she will become a Certified Saw Fitter.
b) On completion of the first period of training in Vocational School an apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test the apprentice Circular saw Filer will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he/she will be required to withdraw from the Program and return to the position of a Saw Fitter.
- 86 -
Supplement No. 4B, Item 6 b) Cont'd.
On completion of the second period of training in Vocational School an apprentice circular Saw Filer will be required to pass a test. on passing the test, he/she will become a Certified circular Saw Filer. In the event that he/she fails to pass the test, he/she will be given a second opportunity. If he/she passes the test on the second occasion he/she becomes a Certified Circular Saw Filer. Should he/she fail to pass the test on the second occasion he/she will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that of a Saw Titter.
c) upon completion of the first period of training in Vocational School an apprentice Benchman will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test the apprentice Benchman will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second test, he/she will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position of a Circular Saw Filer.
On completion of the second period of training in Vocational School an apprentice Benchman will be required to pass a test. On passing the test he/she will become a Certified Benchman. In the event that he/ehe fails to pass the test, he/she will be given a second opportunity. If he/she passes the test on the second occasion he/she becomes a Certified Benchman. Should he/she fail to pass the test on the second occasion he/she will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that of a Circular Saw Filer.
7.	Wherever reference is made to a year as an Apprentice,
it will mean a period of not less than two hundred (ZOO) working days', the said period to include tine spent at the Vocational School. In the event a participant works less than two hundred (200) drys and has attended Vocational School within the year, he/she may be given the opportunity to take the required test.
Supplement Mb. 4B Cont'd
8.	Subject to the provisions herein, an apprentice will be
entitled to recognition of training time in the Plan in the event of his/her moving from one employer in the Industry to another.
SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
a)	Present trainees who are employed full-time, will be indentured in the Program.
b)	Upon entering the filing room, spares will be indentured into the apprenticeship program subject to the limitations of General Principles, Point S contained herein.
c)	Subject to General Principles, Point 5 trainees will be allowed to complete their program to meet the requirements of the operation in which they work.
d)	Saw Fitter Apprentices:	It is agreed that the vacancy
will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII -Seniority.
e)	Circular Saw Filer Apprentices:	It is agreed that the
vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article VUI - Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Saw Fitters.
f)	Benchman Apprentices:	It is agreed that the vacancy
will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article VIII - Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Circular saw Filers.
Present Saw Fitters, circular Saw Filers, and Benchmen employed in the Industry who do not wish to become certified shall not have their seniority rights prejudiced through lack of certification.
-8 B -
Supplement No. 4B, Certification of Present Tradesmen Cont'd
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers and Benchmen will have the right to write a qualifying examination in their respective classification. If they pass the examination they shall receive the appropriate certified rate. If they fail the examination they shall be slotted into the appropriate apprenticeship program with the view to upgrading and eventually becoming certified. Should they fail as per the steps outlined in 6 a), b) ore), they Will be subject to the provisions outlined therein.
Present tradesmen, who write the Tradesmen Qualification Examination will be tested on the basis of the job content of the present jobs in the filing room in which they work.
1.	There will be an Advisory Board consisting of two {2) representatives of the Industry, two (2) from the Union, one (1) representing the Vocational School and one (1) from the Apprenticeship Branch.
2.	The Board will be responsible for advising the appropriate school authorities, Department of Education and Department of Labour regarding the content of tests, standards of marking and the school curriculum.
3.	The Board will not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests.
- 89 -
OUTLINE OP THE FILER' S AND FITTER'S TRAINING PROGRAM
FITTER'S APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
Instruction Breakdown 1st Term:
Fitting bandsaws and gangs
Fitting Circular Saws
Weeks Work Involved
3	Reasons for swage.
Swage and shaper adjustment.
Reasons for crumble, etc. Tooth profile Tooth alignment.
Sharpener operation.
Setting and sharpening of cut off saws.
Automatic and hand gumming.
Swaging, shaping and sharpening circular, and rip saws.
Automatic and hand sharpening.
Spring set circular rip saws.
sharpening and retoothing.
Inserted tooth cut off and rip.
Grinding wheels
Instruction of types, dressing, etc.
2nd Tern:
Review of 1st year school 3	As 1st year
training
Repair and adjust equipment used by a fitter
90 -
Filer's 6 Fitter's Training Program. Fitter's 2nd Term Cont'd
Instruction Breakdown	Weeks
Work Involved
All phases of filing room welding (acetylene) Theory and practical
All phases of chainsaw filing
Gauge setting Flame adjustment Tip size Torch handling Penetration Welding cracks
Carbide (tipping and .dressing	Preparing seats
only)	Brazing in carbide
Teeth - dressing
3rd Term:
Review 2nd term	3
Preliminary circular saw
tensioning
anvil instruction
Capable of hanmering slashers, trim saws
Guide maintenance on bandsaws straight and pressure.
Shear board setting Wheel scrapers Water lines
Welding
Leveling,
plumbing
Theory
Point build Up Tooth replacement Benching of welds
- 91
Filer's & Fitter's Training Program Cont'd
Instruction Breakdown CIRCULAR SAW
1st Term-
To become proficient in 4 hammering all circular saws, rip and cut-off used in sawmill and planer
Level and tension, plumb
All circular saws including hollow ground, (theory 108 cutoff).
Thin edgers Carbide double arbour Review of Basic Shop Mathematics
2nd Term-
Benching gang saws	2	Leveling tension and
back.
stretcher roll and hest	Check tabs
Theory
Filing room machine maintenance Be able to maintain and repair all filing room equipment.
Trouble shooting of circular saw machinery.
Filer's & Fitter's Training Program Cont'd
Benchaan Apprenticeship Program
1st Term-
Complete bandsaw	3
Bench work (roll stretcher and heat)
strain calculations Welding
Learn alignment cf mill machines.
Head rig, edger, resaws, trim, cut-o££, etc.
Band mill Wheel Grinding
2nd Tera:
Saw Capacity study	2
Feeds, tooth bite, gullet capacity saw speeds.
Tooth spacing (Circular and band)
Trouble shooting.
Work Involved
Bench bandsaws in entirety.
Stretcher roll and heat.
Further training. Theory
Theory
- 93 -
SUPPLEMENT WO. 5
FIRBFIGHTIHG AGREEMENT
The following terms and conditions shall be applicable for the duration of the current Collective Agreement during 'Ccnpany Responsibility Eires'.
It is understood that the terms of this Agreement only apply to the employees in the employ of the Company at the time the fire started. Any person hired for firefighting after the start of the fire will work under the rates and conditions as required by the B. C. Forest Service,
1. DEFINITIONS
a)	Accidental Fire
Any fire not deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, and which requires active measures to extinguish.
b)	Slash Escape Fire
Any slash fire ignited	by	the Company which has
escaped the pre-detennined boundaries and requires active measures to extinguish.
c)	Slash Control Fire
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which is contained within the pre-detennined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control and does not require active measures as contemplated in a) and b) above.
d)	Company Responsibility	Fire
Any fire which the Company is responsible for taking measures to extinguish pursuant to the provisions of the Forest Act.
Supplement No. 5, Item 1 Cont'd
e)	Forest Service Fire
Any fire in respect of which the B. C. Forest service accepts responsibility for direction of measures to extinguish.
f)	Fire Fighting Rates
The rates of pay for fighting Company Responsibility Fires hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
g)	Regular Job Rates
Rates of pay to employees for the performances of their regular jobs, as set out in the Wage Supplement of the Collective Agreement.
h) Statutory Rates
Rates of pay established by B. C. Forest Service for fire fighting.
2. COMPANY CONTROLLED TIMBER
a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Conpany employees to fight fire on Conpany controlled tinker, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Conpany controlled timber which is threatening Company controlled timber, the Conpany will pay those employees at the fire fighting rates set out in Section 3 of this supplement.
b)	Where the B.C.X Forest Service directs the conpany to provide its employees for fighting fires in circumstances other than those set out in a) above, those employees will be paid at the statutory rates.
Supplement No. 5 Cont'd
3
FIRE FIGHTING RATES
b)
c)
d)
The basic rate shall be the base rate shown in the collective Agreement and shall apply to all employees engaged in fighting Company Responsibility Fires except those performing one of the following fire fighting jobs:
Category
July 1/91	July 1/93
Crew Boss Cat Operators Skidder Operators Power Saw Operators Mechanics
Slip-on Tank and/or Trailer Tank with Pump Driver Op.
Water Tank Truck with Pump Driver Op. Service Truck/Bus Drivers Pumpman
$18.41
18.37
18.01
17.92
Regular
18.17
17.72
17.65
17.69
$19.26 19.22 18.86 18.77 job rate
19.02
18.57
18.50
18.54
Straight time rates will apply to all employees throughout the period during which the said employees are engaged in fire fighting. This shall not include cook and bunkhouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanics, or other categories servicing, feeding or supplying fire fighters from areas removed from the area of the fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day in question are exclusively related to fire fighting operations.
Regular job rates will apply only for the duration of the regular production shift in which the fire started.
Where employees are working In job classifications during fire fighting, other than those set out herein, job rates will apply.
Supplement No. 5 Cont'd.
4.	BOARD AND LODGING	(While fighting Company
Responsibility Fires)
a)	Employees who commute from home or camp are
expected to ’carry a lunch'.	Additional meals
where required will be at Company expense.
b)	Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
c)	Employees living in fly camps will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
5.	TRAVEL TIME
Travel time for employees engaged in fire fighting will be paid in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
6.	SLASH BURNING
All employees engaged in patrolling or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regular job rate and overtime conditions will apply.
7.	INTERPRETATIVE NOTES
a)	When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtime conditions for fire patrol will revert to the normal conditions provided for in the Collective Agreement.
b)	The meaning of the word 'extinguish' as used in this agreement shall include the act or process of suppression to the point when the fire requires fire patrolmen only.
All provisions of the Collective Agreement except as amended or modified herein shall continue to apply.
- 97 -
SUPPLEMENT HO. 6
B. C. NORTHERN INTERIOR SAWMILL & POLEYARD JOB EVALUATION PLAN
Article 1 ~ Principles k Procedures
The Parties to this Agreement mutually agree to inpleraent and administer a job evaluation program for the Northern Interior sawmilling sector, effective September 1st, 1979., in accordance with the principles and procedures adopted in the British Coluntoia Northern Interior Sawmill & Poleyard Job Evaluation Manual (hereinafter referred to as the 'Manual'). Guidelines for manual interpretation and gradings on record will serve as the basis for subsequent evaluation consistent with any future decisions rendered by the Industry Standing Committee.
Article 2 - Industry Standing Committee
There shall be a Standing Committee constituted and named the B. C. Northern Interior Industry Standing Comnittee to consist of one (1) designated representative of CONIFER, one (1) designated representative of Northwood, one (1) designated representative of the Canfor/Takla Group, one (1) designated representative of the B&bine/Houston Group, and two (2) or more designated representatives of IWA-Canada.
Article 3 - Function of the Industry Standing Committee
The B. C. Northern Interior Industry Standing comnittee shall provide general oversight of the operation of the Plan with responsibility of:
a)	Resolving all job evaluation problems referred by the Sawmill Evaluation Committee.
b)	Resolving any other job evaluation natters involving the job evaluation plan which fall within its jurisdiction.
9$ -
Supplement Ho. 6 Cont'd
Article 4 - Industry Job Evaluation Comnlttee
a)	Each company participating in the B. C. Northern Interior sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan shall designate an evaluator to be its member representative to the Industry Job Evaluation Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Sawaill Job Evaluation Coswittee) and IWA-CANADA shall designate one (1) member representative.
b)	Wherever possible the efforts by the members of the Sawmill Job Evaluation Committee may be consolidated for practical purposes.
Article 5 - Function of Sawill Evaluation Conaittee
a)	The Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall assume general responsibility for the unifom administration of the job evaluation progran in accordance with Article 3 of this Supplement.
b)	The unanimous decision of the said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
Article 6 - Plant Job Review Comlttee
a)	There shall be a committee constituted in each Sawmill Plant naaed the Plant Job Review Coaaittee (hereinafter referred to as ' Review Coaaittee') to consist cf two (2) members representative of Managenent and two (2) members representative of the employees. At least one (I) representative of Management must be a member of the Plant's salaried staff or Management, and at least one (1) representative of the employees must be an employee of the Plant whose job is subject to Sawmill Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed at the plant, and the Union may do likewise except that neither party may choose as its representative a member of the Sawmill Evaluation Committee or any person who is employed as a job evaluator by the company or by IWA-CANADA.
Supplement No. 6, Article 6 Cont/d
b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly-paid
employees for time lost from his/her regular work schedule while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, regarding his/her own job, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly-paid employees.
Article 7 - Function of Rwview Cmaittea
a)	The Review committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee for further action. The documents required will include a 'Request for Job Evaluation' form submitted either by an individual employee or by local management, and a fully completed 'Job Study Record' form which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of the sawmill Evaluation Committee. The foim of the Documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them and the time limits for completion may be amended as required by the Sawmill Evaluation Committee in accordance with Article 5 of this Supplement.
b)	Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request for evaluation or re-evaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limit, the Review Committee shall at the request of any one of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
c)	when the Sawmill Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job it shall communicate that decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committee that an
- 100 -
Supplement Ns. 6, Article 7 c) Cont'd
Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee, will, similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
d)	Nothing in the Article limits the right of the Sawmill
Evaluation Committee to determine the facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend any job description or grading sheet submitted to them in support of a Request for Job Evaluation form.
Article 8 - Application of Program
The job evaluation program shall apply to all hourly paid employees in the 5. C. Northern Interior Sawmill industry except those categories listed below:
Millwright
Machinist
Blacksmith
Welder
Pipefitter - including Sprinklerman
Mechanics
Electrician
Painter
Carpenter
Bricklayer
Steamfitter
Boilermaker
Saw Filers, Fitters, Benchmen and Helpers Engineers (Boiler House)
Firemen (Boiler House)
Grinderman
oiler
and Improvers and Helpers to the above trades.
Article a - Direction of Worfc
Job Evaluation descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirements of the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restriction on the right of the Company to create a new job or to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that if the assignment of such
- 101
Supplement No. 6, Article 9 Cont'd
duties changes the job content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation the Sawmill Evaluation Coxnnittee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure set out herein.
Article 10___Re. Evaluation
a)	When a job has moved to a higher group as a result of re-evaluation, the resulting rate shall be retroactive from the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation.
b)	When a job is moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his/her job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of Article 12 herein.
Article 11 - Hew Jobs created
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a new job,
a temporary rate shall be set by Management.
a)	When the evaluated rate for a new job is higher than the temporary rate, the resulting rate shall be retroactive from the date that the job was installed.
b)	When the evaluated rate for a new job is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbent(s) shall continue the temporary rate.
Article H - Red Circle Protection
a)	The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circled jobs, the said list to include the name of the employee, name of the job category filled, the evaluated rate for the job, and the actual rate paid.
b)	Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher rate shall regain the red circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue i n the higher grade.
102 *
Supplement No. 6, Article 12 Cont'd
c)	Employees holding red circle jobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for the job to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is reassigned to his/her former job he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
d)	When the Company terminates a job, or a job is not occupied during a period of one (1) year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established.
e)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company he/she shall retain his/her existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher, on return to his/her regular job the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
Article 13 - Seniority
Subject to the provisions herein set out, Article VIII -Seniority of this Agreement shall continue to apply.
Article 1« - Referral Procedure
a)	When the Sawmill Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review Committee.
b)	When an employee's request for re-evaluation results in no change baing made in the job grade, or in a reduction, or v\fen a Management request results in no change or in an increase, the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall give to the appropriate Review Committee a short statement of the reasons for the decision. The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficient depth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
Supplement No. 6, Article 14 Cont'd
c)	An evaluation done by the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the parties, but at any time after five (5) years since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of a job, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
d)	If the Sawmill Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the job evaluation program which falls within their jurisdiction the matter shall be referred to the B. C. Northern Interior Industry Standing Committee for settlement.
e)	All communication between any Plant Review Committee and the Sawmill Evaluation Committee referred to above shall be effective by sending one (1) copy to the Union representative or representatives on the committee and one (1) copy to the Employer representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of the appropriate Union local. In the case of communications to the Sawmill Evaluation committee, the Union representative will be addressed care of the offices of IWA-CANADA and the employer representative care of the offices of the Company. The employer representative will then designate their evaluator regarding the disposition of any request for job evaluation.
Article 15 - TralnlnM^^^M
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by those companies included and the IWA-CANADA in the B. C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan.
- 104 -
SUPPLEMENT NQ, 7
PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
Article 1 - Principles and Procedures
The implementation and administration of the job evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles and procedures set out in a Manual dated September, 1955 and entitled 'Jcb Evaluation Manual for Operational Hourly Paid Jobs in the Plywood Industry of British Columbia' as amended July, 1966 and as further amended April, 1971 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Manual* 1).
Article 2 - Industry Job Evaluation Comlttea
There shall be a committee constituted and named the Industry Job Evaluation Committee (hereinafter referred to as the 'Plywood Evaluation Comnittee') to consist of one (1) member representative of CONIFER and one (1) member representative of IWA-CANADA.
Article 3 - Function of Plywood Evaluation Coaalttee
a)	The Plywood Evaluation Committee shall assume general responsibility for the administration of the job evaluation program.
b)	The unanimous decision of the said Comnittee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
a)	There shall be a committee constituted in each plywood plant named the Plant Job Review Comnittee (hereinafter referred to as 'Review Committee7) to consist of two (2) members representative of Management and two (2) members representative of the employees. At least one
(1) representative of Management must be a member of the Plant's salaried staff or Management, and at least one (1) representative of the employees must be an employee of the Plant whose job is subject to Plywood
105
Supplement No. 7, Article 4 a) Cont'd
Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed at the plant, and the Union may do likewise except that neither Party may choose as its representative a member of the Plywood Evaluation Committee or any person who is employed as a job evaluator by CONIFER or by IWA-CANADA.
b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly-paid
employees for time lost from his/her regular work schedule while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, regarding his/her own job, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly-paid employees.
Article s - Function of Review Comlttea
a)	The Review committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Plywood Evaluation Committee for further action. The documents required will include a 'Request for Job Evaluation' form submitted either by an individual employee or by local management, and a fully completed 'Jcb Description' fonn which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of the Plywood Evaluation Committee. The form of the Documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them and the time limits for completion may be amended as required by the Plywood Evaluation Committee under the authority given them by Article 3 of this Supplement.
b)	Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request for evaluation or re-evaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limit, the Review Committee shall at the request of any one of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement to the Plywood Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
- 106 -
Supplement No. 7, Article 5 Cont'd
c)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job, it shall communicate that decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committee that an Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, will, similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
d)	Nothing in the Article limits the right of the Plywood Evaluation Committee to determine the facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend any job description or specification submitted to them in support of a Request for Job Evaluation form.
article 6 - Application of Program
The job evaluation program shall apply to all hourly paid employees in the Plywood industry except Journeymen Tradesmen, Improvers, Helpers, Powerhouse and Boom Crews, Oilers and Grindermen.
Article 7 - Direction of work
Job Evaluation descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirements of the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restriction on the right of the Company to create a new job or to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that if the assignment of such duties changes the job content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure set out herein.
Artld--------—Evaluation
a) When a job has moved to another group as a result of re-evaluation, the wage rate for the new grade shall be effective on the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation.
107
Supplement NO. 7, Section 8 Cont'd
b)	When a job is moved to a lower grade as a result of
re-evaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his/her job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of Article 10 herein.
Article 9 - Key Jobs Created
where the Company has exercised its right to create a new job, a temporary rate shall be set by Management. The permanent rate for the said job as determined by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be effective as of the date the job vas installed. If the evaluated rate for a new job is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbent(s) shall be allowed to continue at the temporary rate.
Article 10 - Red Circle Joha
a)	The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circled jobs, the said list to include the name of the employee, name of the job category filled, the evaluated rate for the job, and the actual rate paid.
b)	Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
c)	Employees holding red circle jobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for the job to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is reassigned to his/her former jobhe/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
d)	when the Company terminates a job, or a job is not occupied during a period of one (1) year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established.
e>	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the
request of the Company he/she shall retain his/her existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher, on return to his/her regular job the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
* 108 -
Supplement lb. 7 Cont'd
Article ii..- Seniority
a)	Subject to the provisions herein set out, Article VIII - Seniority of this Agreement shall continue to apply.
b)	Promotions shall be made only where a vacancy exists.
Article 12 - Referral Procedure
a)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review Coxrmittee.
b)	When an employee's request for re-evaluation results in no change being made in the job grade, or in a reduction, or when a Management request results in no change or in an increase, the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall give to the appropriate Review Committee a short statement of the reasons for the decision. The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficientdepth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
c)	An evaluation done by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the parties, but at any time after five (5) years since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of a job, Management or an individual employee My submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
d)	if the Plywood Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the job evaluation program which falls within their jurisdiction the matter shall be referred to CONIFER and to IWA-CANADA for settlerrent.
109
Supplement No. 7, Article 12 Cont'd
e)	All communication between any Plant Review Committee and the Plywood Evaluation Committee referred to above shall be effective by sending one (1) copy to the Union representative or representatives on the Committee and one (1) copy to the Employer representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of the appropriate Union local and the employer representative care of the Company's offices at the Plant. In the case of communications to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, the union representative will be addressed care of the offices of IWA-CANADA, Vancouver, and the Employer representative care of the offices of CONIFER.
Artlcis 13 - Training Proaraa
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by CONIFER and IWA-CANADA.
110
SUPPLEMENT MO. 8
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A.
The Parties recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in Article VII - Hours of Work, Sections 1 and 2, for the express purpose of better utilization of manpower and capital such as:
Balancing of production
Maintenance
Market requirements
Even flow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs
continuous scheduling (e.g., Logging, Engineers, Firemen, Maintenance, Watchmen) .
B.	SHIFT SCHEDULING
The parties agree that the following shift schedules are examples of the type which will provide the flexibility required to meet the needs expressed above provided the provisions of Article VII section 4 (b) (i} and (i1) have been met.
1.	Logging
(a)	compressed schedules consisting of 10 hours per day, 4 days per week:
(b)	non-continuous schedules such as 10 days on 4 days off.
Ill
Supplement No. 8, Item B. Cont'd
(i)	2 crews working 4 days, 10 hours per
shift:
(ii)	up to 3 crews working Monday to
Saturday, 10 hours a shift not to exceed 40 hours per week:
iii)	employees	working in	continuous
operations may be scheduled to work shifts other than (i) or (ii) above.
3.	Maintenance
(a)	shifts of up to 10 hours per day, 40 hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive?
(b)	three shifts per week, not exceeding 12 hours per day.
4.	Other Shifts
It is understood the parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
C.	IMPUMEHTATIOH
Any variation(s) to Article VII - Hours of Work, shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
1.	The Company and the Local union will meet to discuss proposed shift schedules within the terns of Article VII, It is anticipated that Local Unions will make sincere attempts to assist the companies wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The Parties must mutually agree on the resolution of issues such as:
112
Supplement Ho. 8, Item C. Cont'd
(a)	Details of shift.
(b)	Details of Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave and Jury Duty.
Maximum lengths of shifts for physically demanding work. Accident prevention is a factor to be taken into account in determining shift lengths.
(d)	The loss of hours/employraent as a direct result of the implementation of alternate shift schedules.
(e)	The use of employees for supplementary production work.
2.	The Camp or Plant committee and the crew will be actively consulted by the parties during this process.
D.	GENERAL PRINCIPLES
When an alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of the Collective Agreement will be administered on the principle that an employee will not lose or gain any benefits over his normal five-day schedule.
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intention is to increase the use of casual employees in place of regular employees.
2.	Different parts of an operation may be scheduled on different shifts.
3.	The principle of the forty (40) hour week is to be maintained over an averaging period.
4.	This Article shall not change existing alternate shift agreements, unless agreed to by both parties.
113
Supplement No. B, Item 0. Cont'd.
5.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the Bane basis as days and hours worked under tho alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other Articles of the Collective Agreenent, which provide benefits after eight (6) hours, are extended by the aoount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
?. An employes's rest days may vary from week to week under an alternate shift schedule. Employees shall not be paid premium pay for changes in their rest days in these circumstances*
3,	An employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an established alternate shift schedule, shall reasive rate and one-half for work perforated on hie rest days unless a change in rest day results from the application of seniority or has been agreed to between the employee end the company.
9.	There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are cnanged because or the lapleaentafcion or discontinuance of en alternate shift schedule.