2000-2003
THIS AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO THIS 1ST DAY OF JULY 2000
between
SLOCAN GROUP - MACKENZIE OPERATIONS (hereafter known as the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
and
PULP, PAPER AND WOODWORKERS OF CANADA LOCAL 18
(hereafter known as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION I - PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT .............
SECTION II - RECOGNITION .....................
SECTION HI - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS ...............
SECTION IV - WAGES............................
SECTION V - PAY DAYS .........................
SECTION VI - HOURS OF WORK & OVERTIME
Production Employees (Five Day Operation) .
Maintenance Employees (Five Day Schedule) .
Three-Shift Operation......................
Alternate Shift Schedule - Production .....
Ten-Hour Maintenance Schedule..............
Alternate Three-Day Shift Schedule - Maintenance Alternate Four-Day Shift Schedule - Maintenance
General.................................
Failure to Provide Work . . ,...........
Casual Worker ..........................
Meals ..................................
SECTION VII - SENIORITY.....................
SECTION VIII - LEAVE. OF ABSENCE............
Jury or Witness Duty....................
Bereavement Leave...........,...........
Parental Leave..........................
Maternity Leave.........................
SECTION IX- VACATIONS WITH PAY .............
SECTION X-STATUTORY HOLIDAYS ...............
Personal Floating Holiday ..............
Qualifying Conditions ..................
SECTION XI - SAFETY AND HEALTH .............
SECTION XII - STANDING COMMITTEE ...........
SECTION XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE .........
SECTION XIV - GENERAL PROVISIONS............
i
.1
1
. 4
.4
5
. . 6 . 6
..7
. 7 . . 8 ..9 10 12 .13 . 14
14
15 . 16 21
.24
25
26 .26 27 32
34
35 35
37
38 42
SECTION XV - HEALTH AND WELFARE PLAN .........................43
Institution ............................................. 43
Board of Trustees........................................ 43
Umpire................................................... 44
Insurance Coverage for Eligible Employees ................44
A. Table of Hourly Job Rate Brackets & Corresponding Coverage 48
Group Term Life and Accidental Death & Dismemberment...48
Medical Travel .......................................,.. 49
Travel Beyond Prince George.............................49
Out of Province Travel Plan.............................5 1
Travel Within the Northern Interior.................... 52
Change in Benefits....................................... 53
Surviving Spouse and Dependent Coverage ..................53
SECTION XVI- PENSION PLAN.....................................54
Board of Trustees ....................................... 54
Benefits................................................. 54
Funding.................................................. 55
SECTION XVII - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM..55 SECTION XVIII -JOB ELIMINATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CHANGE........................................................59
Definition ................................................ 59
Exclusions................................................. 59
Required Notice of Technological Change ....................59
Notice of Job Elimination.................................. 60
Job Elimination Options ..................................  60
Seniority Status............................................60
Severance Allowance ....................................... 61
Training................................................... 62
Retiring Allowance.................................. ••.....63
SECTION XIX - DURATION OF AGREEMENT...........................64
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1 - WAGE RATES ................................66
A-Sawmill .............................. '■...............66
C-Sawmill ............................................... 67
ii
Processing Department.....................................68
Maintenance Department....................................69
Log Yard .................................................71
Non-Department .........................................  71
First Aid Premium.........................................73
Grading Ticket Premium....................................73
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2 - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING
PROGRAM ..................................................•■•74
Article I - Purpose.....................................~
Article n - Trades........................................74
Article III - General Principles..........................74
Article IV - Joint Union-Management Apprenticeship Committee -.76
Article V - Schedule of Training for Apprentices..........77
Article VI - Textbooks................................... 79
Article VII - Allowances for Wage Make-up.................79
Article VIII - On-the-Job Training ...................... 80
On-the-Job Training - Filers ............................ 80
Out-of-Town Expenses.................................... 81
Article IX-Tools..........................................81
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3 - EMPLOYEE ADVANCEMENT AND
JOB GROUPING ........................................,.....82
Section A - Introduction..................................82
Definitions.............................................. 82
Trainee................................................83
Relief Operator........................................82
Incumbent............................................. 84
Job Group..............................................84
Key Job................................................84
Section B - Posting Procedures........................... 84
Grading Job Postings ..................................86
Group 3 and Planer Group Incumbent Job Postings........86
Log Bundle Handling Positions..........................86
Section C - Job Groups....................................88
in
Section D - Training .................
Section E - Ineligibility ............
Section F - Special Agreements .......
Weighmaster ........................
SUPPLEMENT NO. 4 - PENSION PLAN
Early Retirement......................
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING ................
Coveralls.............................
Welding Ticket Renewal ...............
Minimum Guarantee - Call Time ........
Rehiring .............................
Car Wash Tickets......................
Pre-Apprenticeship Leave of Absence ..
Air Tickets...........................
Contracting ..........................
Production Positions .................
Trades Guidelines and Demarcation ....
Trades Flexibility ...................
Trades Attrition......................
Temporary Summer Students ............
Company Reports and Lists ............
Vacation Pay .........................
Removal of Discipline ................
Equalization of Overtime .............
Education Trust Fund..................
iv
...90
...91
...92
...92
...93
...97
100
100
101
102
103
103
104
104
105
105
106
106
107
108
109
109
110
110
111
SECTION I - PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company, the Union and the employees the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining, and to ensure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output, and protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company and the Union and the employees to cooperate fully, individually, and collectively, for the advancement of said conditions.
The Company and the Union agree to abide by the terms set out in this Agreement. The Union further agrees that it will, at all times, instruct its members to act in accordance with the terms contained in this Agreement. The Company agrees, in the exercise of the functions of Management, that the provisions of this Agreement will be carried out.
The Company and Union subscribe to and support the principles of all federal and provincial legislation.
All terms in this Agreement are intended to be gender neutral. As such, all references to man, men, he, him, or his shall also imply woman, women, she, her, or hers.
SECTION II - RECOGNITION
1.	The Company recognizes Local 18, Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers of Canada, as the only bargaining agent representing all employees as defined in this Agreement.
2.	The term “Employee” as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Company on whose behalf the Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers of Canada, Local 18, has been certified as bargaining agent except and excluding
Page 1
foremen and others having authority to hire and discharge, office workers, supervisory officials and salesmen.
3.	The Company will cooperate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present to new employees, and to all Supervisors and Foremen, the Policy herein expressed.
The Company will include a copy of the PPWC Bylaws and the introduction of new employees to a Shop Steward in its “Employee Induction Program”. The employee should be introduced to a Shop Steward within his first week of work.
4.	All employees in the employment of the Company, and all new employees, shall within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
5.	Any employee who fails to maintain his membership in good standing in the Union by reason of failure to pay dues or assessments shall be discharged after seven (7) days written notice to the Company by the Union of the employee’s failure to maintain his membership in good standing.
6.	(a) No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his
application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers of Canada National Constitution and in accordance with the Bylaws of Local 18.
Page 2
(b)	Any employee who applies for membership pursuant to the provisions of 6(a) above, will not have his application rejected.
7.	The Company shall require all new employees, at the time of hiring, to execute an assignment of wages for union dues in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union, and will forward one copy to the Union within fifteen (15) days of execution.
8.	This assignment in the case of employees already members of the Union, shall be effective immediately and for those employees not previously members of the Union, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution.
9.	The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked in writing by the employee) to the Local Union named therein not less than once each month, with a written statement of names of employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
10.	The Union and the Company recognize that supervisors are excluded from the provisions of the Labour Agreement and accordingly it is improper for supervisors normally to do the work which is done by those defined as employees in the Agreement.
It is also recognized that, for the practical and efficient operation of the mills, there are occasions when a supervisor must help. Such occasions must be temporary in nature and must not result in the displacement or exclusion of employees under the Agreement.
Page 3
SECTION HI - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
1.	The management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the Employees are vested exclusively in the management provided, however, that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees, and is in accordance with the principles outlined in Sections I and VII of this Agreement.
2.	The Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline them or discharge them for proper cause.
SECTION IV - WAGES
1.	The wage scale for the term of this Agreement is attached as Supplement No. 1 to this agreement. The Parties agree that wages of all hourly rated employees covered by the Agreement shall be increased as follows:
July 1, 2000 - 2%
July 1, 2001 - 2%
July 1, 2002 - 2%
Effective July 1, 1994, a trades qualification premium of twenty-nine cents ($0.29) per hour will be paid to those tradesmen who are working in a trade listed in Supplement No. 1. Effective July 1, 2000 this trades qualification premium will be increased to thirty and one half cents ($0,305), will be rolled into wages and will be included for increases throughout the duration of the Collective Agreement.
2.	It is agreed that employees engaged on contract or piecework shall not receive less money than the equivalent of the hourly rate specified in the wage schedule for the number of hours worked in each day.
Page 4
3.	(a) A shift differential of thirty-one cents ($0.31) per hour will
be paid in addition to the hourly rate on all work performed outside the regular day shift as established for each department.
(b)	The shift differential will apply to all employees who are scheduled on day shift for work performed outside their regular day shift hours.
(c)	Shift differential shall not be included with any employee’s wage rate for the purpose of calculating overtime.
4.	(a) In the event that job conditions change, or new machinery is
installed or a new category is established, the Company will determine an interim rate which will remain in effect until a permanent rate is agreed to. The permanent rate will become effective retroactive to the date of the change, new machine start up, or establishment of a new job.
(b)	In the event that a new category is established, the patties shall discuss and agree to the applicable posting procedure as per Supplement No. 3.
SECTION V - PAY DAYS
1.	The Company shall provide for pay days every second week. Each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
2.	The Company confirms its commitment to continue its present practice of issuing pay statements to afternoon shift employees on the day prior to the regular pay day at the times posted by the Company. It is understood by the Union that in some
Page 5
circumstances this may not be possible and, in such cases, statements will be issued on the regular pay day.
3.	Any “missed pay” that is equal to or greater than the equivalent of eight (8) straight time hours will be paid to the employee on either the Tuesday following the pay day or on the next pay day, whichever is earlier.
SECTION VI - HOURS OF WORK &OVERTIME
1. Production Employees (Five Day Operation)
(a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week Monday through Friday.
(b)	Overtime will be paid at rate and one-half for all hours
worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a day, forty (40) in a week and for Saturday and for Sunday work.
(c)	Where a department adopts an alternate shift schedule (a) and
(b)	above will not apply.
(d)	Double straight time rates shall he paid for the following:
(i)	Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day.
(ii)	Hours worked Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
(iii)	For the purposes of(d) herein, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
(iv)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
Page 6
2.	Maintenance Employees (Five Day Schedule)
(a)	The regular hours of work shall be five (5) eight (8) hour days, with two (2) days off each week. Such days off will be consecutive days unless mutually agreed to be otherwise between the employee and the Company.
(b)	Overtime shall be paid at rate and one-half for all hours
worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, on Sun&y and upon the employees’ designated days off, if worked.
(c)	Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
(i)	Hours worked in excess of eleven (id hours per day.
(ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have
worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
(iii)	For purposes of(c) herein a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
(iv)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
(d)	Where the Company adopts a voluntary alternate three (3) day shift schedule, (a) and(b) above will not apply.
3.	Three (3) Shift Operation
(a)	The Company shall have the right to operate the plant or any part thereof on a three (3) shift basis, and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift.
(b)	It is agreed that Clause (a) above shall apply to those
employees actually working on a three (3) shift basis.
Page 7
(c)	The Company shall have the right to determine the number of shifts operated in any unit or department of the operation.
(<*) Where less than three (3) shifts are worked, Clause (a) above shall not apply.
4.	Alternate Shift Schedule - Production
Subject to Standing Committee Agreement for each occasion, the Company may intermittently implement an alternate work schedule of four (4) days per week and ten (10) hours per day Monday through Friday. Scheduling may be Monday through Thursday or Tuesday through Friday or a combination of the two.
The Company and Union may, by mutual agreement, alter the above to include an averaging period for the forty (40) hour week. When alternate schedules have been implemented, the following overtime provision will apply:
(a)	Rate and one-half shah be paid for the following:
(0 The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours of the established schedule.
(ii)	Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
(iii)	All hours worked on an employee’s scheduled rest day, unless a change of rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
(iv)	All hours worked on Saturday and Sunday.
(b)	Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
(i)	All hours worked in excess of (a)(i) above.
(ii)	All hours worked on Sunday when Sunday is also an employee’s scheduled rest day, if the employee has
Page 8
worked four (4) shifts out of the preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
(c)	SECTION VI - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME -8(a) does not apply. Straight time rates shall remain in effect until completion of the regular hours for the ten (10) hour
Shift.
5.	Ten (10) Hour Maintenance Schedule
The Company shall have the right to schedule maintenance department employees on IO-hour shifts as described.
(a)	The regular hours of work shall be ten (10) hours per day and seventy (70) hours over two weeks. The shift format shall be two (2) days on and two (2) days off three (3) days on and two (2) days off; and two (2) days on and three (3) days off or similar combination each fourteen (14) day period.
(b)	Rate and one-half shall be paid for the following:
(i)	All hours in excess of eight (8) hours per day.
(ii)	All hours worked on Sunday when Sunday is a
scheduled day.
(iii)	All hours worked on an employee’s scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
(c)	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
(i)	All hours in excess of eleven (11) hours per day.
(ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have
worked all scheduled shifts in the preceding six (6) days.
Page 9
(iii)	For the purposes of(c) herein a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked
(iv)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
6. Alternate Three (3) Day Shift Schedule — Maintenance
The Parties agree with the principle that efforts to Utilize the Alternate Three (3) Day Shift Schedule will first be done by seeking volunteers in the needed trades. If there are not sufficient number of volunteers to meet the needs, then the Company may schedule as per Clause (e) below.
(a)	Scheduled days off each week shall be consecutive days
unless mutually agreed to be otherwise between the Company and the employee.
(b)	Overtime shall be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, on Sunday and upon the employee’s designated days off, if worked.
(c)	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
(0 Hours worked in excess of eleven (ii) hours per day.
(ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have
worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
(iii)	For purposes of(c) herein a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
(iv)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
(d)	Employees who work the full schedule shah not receive less than forty (40) hours straight time pay per week.
Page 10
(e)	The Company may regularly schedule up to five (5) tradesmen per mill to work the Alternate Three (3) Day Shift Schedule. When any mill is operating three (3) shifts of production that mill may regularly schedule up to seven (7) tradesmen per mill to work the Alternate Three (3) Day Shift Schedule. The Company’s right to schedule any individual employee is limited to twenty-five percent (25%) of the calendar year.
(f)	When a Statutory Holiday falls on a regular work day for an employee on the Alternate Three (3) Day Shift Schedule, he will observe it as follows:
(i)	New Years Day, Canada Day, Remembrance Day,
Christmas Day, and Boxing Day will be observed on the day it falls.
(ii)	All other Statutory Holidays will be observed the week following the mill designated days and will not be-observed on a Saturday or a Sunday.
When the Statutory Holiday falls on the employee’s scheduled day off, he may also elect to take a day off at a mutually agreed upon future date, excluding the mill designated day or a Saturday or a Sunday.
Employees on the Alternate Three (3) Day Shift Schedule will be paid their regular rate for the Statutory Holiday. The intent of the wording “‘regular rate” above means that those affected employees shall not suffer a loss of earnings by observing the Statutory Holiday in the manner described in (i) or (ii) above.
Page 11
7.	Alternate Four (4) Day Shift Schedule - Maintenance
The Company may implement an alternate work schedule of four (4) days per week and ten (10) hours per day Monday through Friday. Scheduling may be Monday through Thursday or Tuesday through Friday or a combination of the two.
The Company and Union may, by mutual agreement, alter the above to include an averaging period for the forty (40) hour week. When alternate schedules have been implemented, the following overtime provision will apply:
(a)	Rate and one-half shall be paid for the following:
(i)	The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours of the established schedule.
(ii)	Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
(iii)	All hours worked on an employee’s scheduled rest day, unless a change of rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
(iv)	All hours worked on Saturday and Sunday.
(b)	Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
(i)	All hours worked in excess of (a)(i) above.
(ii)	All hours worked on Sunday when Sunday is also an employee’s scheduled rest day, if the employee has worked four (4) shifts out of the preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
Page 12
SECTION VI - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME -8(a) does not apply. Straight time rates shall remain in effect until completion of the regular hours for the ten (IO) hour shift.
8.	General
(a)	It is agreed between the Parties that if two (2) hours or less are necessary after midnight on Saturday or a Statutory Holiday, to complete the shift which commenced work on the afternoon preceding the Saturday or Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight to complete this shift will be paid at straight time.
(b)	The foregoing provisions of this Section shall not be
construed as guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
(c)	All employees shall be entitled to two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods during each regular shift, provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision.
(d)	All employees working a ten (10) hour or longer schedule shall be entitled to three (3) ten (10) minute rest periods during each regular shift.
(e)	The standard hours for a graveyard shift will be seven and one-half (7 lA) hours worked , eight (8) hours on site except for week-end casual workers whose standard hours for graveyard shift will be eight (8) hours worked, eight and one-half (8 Vi) hours on site.
Page 13
Employees relieving one another and working in a three (3) shift rotation will have their shifts compressed into twenty-four (24) hours by working two (2), eight (8) hour shifts and a bobtail shift, or by working three (3), seven and one-half (7 Vz) hour shifts.
Graveyard shifts of seven and one-half (7 Vz) hours worked may be scheduled in a rotation with the ten (10) hour maintenance schedule. The graveyard portion of the rotation will not exceed one-third of the schedule.
9.	Failure to Provide Work
(a)	Any employee reporting for work and finding no work
available due to reasons beyond his or her control shall be entitled to two (2) hours pay at the usual rate. This shall apply unless the Company gives notice not to report.
(b)	When an employee reports for work and starts work, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate unless his work is suspended because of inclement weather or other reasons beyond the control of the Company.
10.	Casual Worker
(a)	The term “casual worker” as used in this Agreement shall apply to any person who works less than three (3) days in one week.
(b)	All casual workers, including laid-off regular employees,
shall be paid for work performed at straight-time rates, except for work performed on Sundays, Statutory Holidays, and hours in excess of eight (8) per day, in which case rate and one-half will be paid.
Page 14
(c)	Employment of laid off regular employees as casual workers shall not result in the commencement of a new period of seniority retention.
(d)	Laid off regular employees shall have preference for
available work over the said casual employees.
11.	Not withstanding any other provision contained in this Section, the Company will not be liable for the payment specified in SECTION VI - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME - 9 (a) and (b) where an employee on reporting for work finds no work available due to contraventions of SECTION XIV - GENERAL PROVISIONS - 2 by any person bound by this agreement.
12.	Meals
(a)	Where an employee is required to continue working more than two (2) hours overtime beyond his regular shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal to be consumed by the employee on Company time or provided he continues to work may elect to receive one half (1/2) hour overtime pay and a meal allowance of eighteen dollars ($18.00). The meal allowance is not applicable if the employee had been given seventy-two (72) hours or more advance notice of the overtime requirement.
(b)	Where an employee is required to continue working more than a half shift, a second meal will be provided during the shift break or he may elect to receive a meal allowance of eighteen dollars ($18.00).
(c)	Where an employee is required to report to work in advance of his regular shift without sufficient time to eat his regular
Page 15
meal or prepare a lunch, he will be provided with a meal within an hour of the start of his regular shift, on Company time, and a second meal at the shift break.
(d)	Where sufficient notice has been given, and an employee reports to work more than one (1) hour in advance of his regular shift, he is entitled to a hot meal to be consumed on Company time, provided he completes his regular shift.
(e)	The meal will be scheduled at a time when production will not be adversely affected but having consideration for the employee’s needs.
13.	It is the responsibility of each employee to arrange his own transportation to and from the mill site. If an employee is held over on overtime and, as a result, does not have transportation home, the Company will arrange transportation between the mill site and the town of Mackenzie.
SECTION VII - SENIORITY
1.	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, it shall be mutually agreed that all employees are hired on probation, the probationary period to continue until thirty (30) days have been worked, during which time they are to be considered temporary workers only, and during this same period, no seniority rights shall be recognized. Upon completion of thirty (30) days worked, they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company’s employ, provided, however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) days worked shall only be cumulative within the three (3) calendar months following the date entering employment.
Page 16
2.	The Company recognizes the principles of seniority in their application to the promotion, demotion, transfer, lay-off and recall of employees, providing the employee has the qualifications and ability to perform the work properly.
3.	(a)	(i) In the event of a reduction of the forces, the last hired
shall be the first released, subject to the provisions of Subsection 2 of this Section. Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions the application of seniority may be postponed for such a period as may be necessary but not exceeding three (3) working days except that the Union and Company may agree to extend this period to a maximum of live (5) working days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Union immediately.
(ii)	When the mill or a portion thereof is shut down for maintenance purposes on normal production days for a period in excess of one (1) shift, production employees affected who wish to perform the work available will be selected in accordance with the principles outlined in 2 above and will be paid at regular rate for the work performed.
(iii)	When the mill or a portion thereof is shut down during a normal production shift, the Company may require employees to perform alternative work for the balance of that shift at their regular job rate or the rate of the alternative job, whichever is greater.
(b)	During a reduction of forces where an employee’s seniority is such that he will not be able to keep his regular job, he may elect to apply his seniority to obtain a job paying a higher rate if he has previously held the job in the operation as an
Page 17
incumbent or has worked as a relief operator for sixty (60) days.
(a)	During a reduction of forces where an employee’s seniority is such that he will not be able to keep his regular job, he may elect whether or not to apply his seniority to obtain a lower paid job or a job paying the same rate of pay or return to his last posted job or job vacancy. Where a change of departments is required, the employee will have the seniority in that department for posting purposes only.
(0 it is recognized by the Company that a certain amount of training and/or retraining will be required. The intent is to refresh skills, not to introduce new and unfamiliar skills.
(d)	An employee may accept a lay-off until his regular job
becomes available, provided, however;
(i)	if during the lay-off period the employee wishes to return to work and so notifies the Company, he shall be called back to work as soon as his seniority entitles him to a job.
(ii)	The application of this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his rights, bumping an employee with loss seniority.
(e)	An incumbent who is laid off from his regular job may apply his seniority as in Clauses (3) (b), (c), and(d) above.
(>) He will maintain seniority in the department he is laid off from so long as he is not awarded a posting in another department.
(ii) ineligibility will be waived on job postings.
4.	When employees are recalled after lay-off, it shah be done on the
basis of the last person laid off shall be the first person recalled,
Page 18
subject to the provisions of Subsection 2 of this section and the following:
(a)	It shall be the employee’s responsibility to keep the Company informed of his address and phone number during a period of lay-off.
(b)	Sufficient notice of recall shall consist of notification by
registered mail, by telephone, or by personal contact.
(c)	It is agreed that all employees shall return to work as quickly as possible after receiving notification of recall in accordance with this Section and shall retain all their seniority rights.
(d)	Failure to report within one (1) week shall result in loss of seniority rights, except where the employee advises the Company of his inability to return, in which case the one (1) week may be extended.
5.	Incumbent-Relief and other seniority lists that the Company may use will be made available to the Union every month.
6.	It is agreed between the parties that seniority during lay-offs shall be retained on the following basis:
(a)	Employees with less than one (1) year’s service will retain their seniority for a period of eight (8) months.
(b)	Employees with one (1) or more year’s service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year plus one (1) additional month for each year’s service, up to an additional twelve (12) months.
Page 19
7.	The purpose of this section is to provide training so that an employee may apply his seniority in the event of his lay-off or the permanent elimination of his job as outlined below. This section does not apply to the reduction of seasonal or temporary shifts or positions except as in (a) below.
(a)	Any employee affected by lay-off that is estimated to be in excess of forty-five (45) days will follow procedures outlined in SECTION VII - SENIORITY.
(b)	Any employee affected by a lay-off that is estimated to be in excess of forty-five (45) days and whose lack of past experience precludes him from exercising his seniority to obtain a job at or above the Group 2 level, may elect to be trained in Group 2, 3, or Planer Group. Normal training periods shall apply.
(c)	Any employee affected by a lay-off that is estimated to be in excess of one hundred and eighty (180) days and whose lack of past experience precludes him from exercising his seniority to obtain a job at or above the Group 1 level may elect to be trained in Group 1, 2, 3, Planer Group, or a Key Job. Normal training periods shall apply.
(d)	Any employee affected by a Permanent lay-off and whose lack of past experience precludes him from exercising his seniority to obtain a job at or above the Group 1 level may elect to be trained in Group 1, 2, 3, Planer Group, or a Key Job.
(e)	For the purpose of the above clauses, all Group 1 positions will be considered the same as each other, all Group 2 Positions will be considered the same as each other, all Group 3 positions will be considered the same as each other, and all
Page 20
Planer Croup positions will be considered the same as each other. For example, “A” Mill Department Group 1 is equivalent to “C” Mill Department Croup 1.
In addition, the Company will meet with the Union to establish a training program in other jobs with the objective of eventually placing laid off personnel in line with their seniority. Phasing-in arrangements of such a program will be discussed between the parties to accomplish the objective with minimal impact on quality and quantity of production.
An employee may only use this section to exercise his seniority to be trained for a job at an equal or lower rate than that which he held at the time of the lay-off or permanent loss of job.
SECTION VIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
1.	(a) Any employee desiring leave of absence for any reason other
than those set out in 2 and 3 of this Section must obtain same in writing from the Company, a copy of such leave to be forwarded to the Local Union.
(b) Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this Section for a period of longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the Company agrees to notify the Shop Steward and the Union as to the circumstances for the granting of such a period of leave.
2.	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the Employer.
3.	(a) The Company agrees that it is proper to grant leave of
absence to employees who have been elected or appointed to an office or position in their Union or who have been
Page 21
nominated or elected to Federal, Provincial, or Municipal office. However, it is not the intention of the Company to grant lifetime leaves of absence.
In the case of an employee being appointed or elected to a full-time office or position in the Union, he shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of such office.
Seniority shall accumulate during the period of an employee’s leave of absence.
Employees elected to Federal, Provincial, or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave as necessary during the term of such office.
(b)	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions, or members of any Union Negotiating Committees in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if leave of absence for Union business is requested for several employees of the same department or work group and in the event that their absence will impair production or prohibit the normal functioning of the operation, then the Company shall have the right to grant leave of absence only to those employees who can be given leave. Such leaves of absence shall not be unreasonably denied.
(c)	It is agreed that before the employee receives this leave of absence as set forth in Clause (a) and (b) above, the Company will be given sufficient notice in writing by the Union to replace the employee with a competent substitute.
Page 22
(d)	The Company will consider request for leave of absence for educational or training purposes. In judging such requests, the Company will consider the following:
(i)	The course must be appropriate to the employee’s
present job or immediate potential with the Company on successful completion.
(ii)	Leaves of absence will not be granted where the
efficient operation of the mill or any department is affected.
(iii)	Employees must apply in writing at least one (1) month in advance of the requested leave of absence.
(iv)	Employees must have at least one (1) year ofservice.
(v)	Request for leave of more than six (6) months duration will not normally be granted.
Benefit plans will be maintained during the leave of absence but the employee will pay the entire cost of such plans.
(e)	(i) It is agreed that Employees may be required to
temporarily till positions outside the Bargaining Unit. These employees will be allowed to fill such positions for a maximum of one hundred and twenty (120) working days in each calendar year and shall continue to accumulate seniority during this time. The one hundred and twenty (120) working days may be extended subject to mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
A maximum of eight hundred (800) days will be allowed for the 2000 calendar year and a maximum of five hundred fifty (550) days will be allowed thereafter. This total will exclude all employees removed from the bargaining unit to fill non-supervisory positions. This total will exclude all employees removed from the bargaining unit to till supervisory positions where a
Page 23
supervisor is temporarily absent for a continuous period of more than two (2) months because of illness or injury.
Upon returning to the Bargaining Unit, those employees will return to the job held prior to the temporary assignment providing their seniority will allow them to take the position.
Where an employee is transferred to a temporary position under this Sub-Section, the Company will notify the Union and Crew Shop Steward, in advance if possible, and will post a notice in the appropriate lunch room(s).
(ii)	In the event of a lay-off, a temporary Supervisor will be used in that position only so long as his seniority entitles him to a position in the mill.
(iii)	It is agreed that an employee who accepts a salaried position outside the Bargaining Unit may elect to return to the Bargaining Unit at any time within one (1) calendar year of transferring to the salaried position. The employee’s seniority will be maintained but will not be accumulated during the one-year period. If the employee elects to return to the Bargaining Unit, he may exercise his Wood Products Seniority to obtain a job through the normal posting procedure. Employees who elect this option will be required to pay back dues for the appropriate period when they return to the Bargaining Unit.
4.	Jury or Witness Duty
Any regular, full-time employee, who is required to perform Jury Duty, or who is subpoenaed to serve as a witness in a Court Action or Coroner’s Inquest, save and except actions involving the Company or Trade Union, unless subpoenaed by the Crown on a
Page 24
day on which he would normally have worked, will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay received for such duty and his regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for his regularly scheduled hours of work. Piece workers will be compensated as per SECTION X - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS - 2
(b). It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or (40) hours per week, less pay received for such duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of performing such service and such duty pay received.
5.	Bereavement Leave
(a)	When death occurs to a member of a regular full-time
employee’s immediate family, the employee will be granted funeral leave of absence for which he shall be compensated at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay for his regular work schedule. Piece workers will be compensated as per SECTION X - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS 2 (b).
Five (5) days paid funeral leave will be granted to an employee attending the funeral when its location is outside a five hundred (500) kilometer radius of Mackenzie. Three (3) days paid funeral leave will be granted to employees attending the funeral when its location is within five hundred (500) kilometers. One (1) day paid bereavement leave will apply when the employee does not attend the funeral.
(b)	Members of the employee’s immediate family are defined as the employee’s spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law, father-m-law, stepparents, grandparents and grandchildren, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law and step-children, grandparents-in-law, and *common-law spouse, brother-in-law and sister-in-law.
* Interpretation - have been cohabitating for one (l) year.
Page 25
(c)	When death occurs to a member of a regular full-time
employees immediate family, the employee will receive appropriate unpaid compassionate leave.
(d)	Compensable hours under the terms of this Section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
6.	Parental Leave
Except as provided under No. 7 Maternity Leave, seniority shall accumulate for the period any employee is on approved leave of absence up to one (1) year, and if the leave of absence is more than one (i) year, the seniority date will be maintained but not accumulated for the additional period.
7.	Maternity Leave
(a)	Maternity Leave will be granted upon request providing
verification of pregnancy is made by a qualified physician.
(b)	Seniority shall accumulate for the period any employee is on approved Maternity Leave up to one hundred eighty (180) days, and if leave is more than one hundred eighty (180) days, the seniority will be maintained but not accumulated for the additional period.
(c)	In no event shall Maternity Leave extend more than sixty (60) days past birth. Any further leave of absence must be for valid medical reasons.
Page 26
SECTION IX - VACATIONS WITH PAY
SUBSECT IONA
1.	(a) A vacation with pay will be granted to all employees in
accordance with provisions of the “Employment Standards Act”, of the Statutes of British Columbia, and amendments thereto, except that the qualification period shall be two hundred (ZOO) days instead of two hundred and twenty-five (225) days, as provided for in the act.
(b) Vacation pay for employees with one (1) to two (2) years of continuous service shall be at the rate of five percent (5%) of earnings.
2.	(a) Employees with two (2) or more years continuous service
with the Company shall receive three (3) weeks of vacation with vacation pay at the rate of seven percent (7%) of earnings.
(b) The third week of vacation as in (a) will be taken but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in the above clause but at a time convenient to the Company.
3.	(a) An employee with seven (7) years continuous service shall
receive an additional one (1) week of vacation with pay, based on two percent (2%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the working week.
(b) The additional one (1) week will be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Subsection 1 and 2 herein.
Page 27
4.	(a) An employee with fifteen (15) or more years continuous
service shall receive a further additional one (1) week of vacation with pay, based on two percent (2%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the working year.
(b) The additional one (1) week will be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Subsection 1 and 2 herein.
5.	(a) An employee with twenty-four (24) or more years continuous
service shall receive a further additional one (1) week of vacation with pay, based on two percent (2%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the working year.
(b) The additional one (1) week will be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Subsection 1 and 2 herein.
6.	(a) An employee with thirty (30) or more years continuous
service shall receive a further additional one (i) week of vacation with pay, based on two percent (2%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the working year.
(b) The additional one (1) week will be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Subsection 1 and 2 herein.
Page 28
SUBSECTION B
II. Vacation with pay for employees engaged on piecework rates shall be based on the average daily earnings for the previous twelve (12) months or such lesser period of time employed.
2.	Vacation for employees shall be taken at such times mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Company when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired.
Vacation approval slips will be issued to employees as soon as possible.
It is the intent of the Company and the Union to ensure a fair distribution of prime time vacations among employees. Prime time vacations may be limited to two (2) weeks per year.
Definition: Prime time is the time that children are out of school. More specifically, mid-June to Labour Day, third week of December to New Year’s Day, and Spring Break.
3.	The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations with pay for any employee after one (1) continuous year of employment.
(a) Absence on Workers’ Compensation for a period of twelve (12) months provided the employee returns to his employment.
(b) Absence due to illness or non-occupational accident up to a period of one (1) year, provided the employee returns to his employment. The Company shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
Page 29
(c)	Absence due to jury or witness duty in accordance with SECTION VIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE - 4, or due to bereavement leave in accordance with SECTION VIII -
LEAVE OF ABSENCE - 5.
(d)	Any other absence duly approved by the Company in writing shall be credited toward entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
4.	With respect to vacation pay calculated and subject to the qualifications contained in Subsection B #4, the following provisions will apply:
Years of Service	i) Percentage of Earnings or	ii) Number of Hours at the Hourly Rate of the Employee’s Regular Job
1-2	5%	80 hours
2-7	7%	120 hours
7-15	9%	160 hours
15-24	11%	200 hours
24-30	13%	240 hours
30 and over	15%	280 hours
(iii) The hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, as provided for in Subsection B #4 (ii) above, shall mean the hourly rate of the employee’s regular job at the time the employee takes the first two (2) weeks or more of vacation after the cut off date.
5.	(a) (i) In order to qualify for the greater of percentage of
earnings or number of hours, as provided for in
Page 30
Subsection B #4 above, an employee must have worked a minimum of one thousand five hundred (1500) hours in his first year of service, and a minimum of one thousand (1000) hours during his succeeding years of entitlement.
(ii) For the purpose of calculating minimum hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeeding year.
0>) For the purposes of computing the requisite hours, the following will be included:
(i)	All hours worked;
(ii)	Statutory Holiday hours;
(iii)	Jury or Witness Duty;
(iv)	Bereavement Leave;
(V) Vacation Hours;
(vi)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of an accident recognized as compensable by the Workers’ Compensation Board, suffered during the course of employment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation;
(vii)	Time not exceeding one (1) year lost as the result of a non-occupational accident or illness shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation provided that at the time of the accident or illness the employee has been on the payroll for not less than one a) year and that he returns to his employment, It is understood that the employer may require that the employee provide a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner;
(viii)	Time lost as the result of lay-off shall not be considered as time worked for the purposes of qualifying for the requisite hours;
Page 31
(ix)	Employees who report for work and who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any such shift for purposes of computing the requisite hours under this section,
(x)	All hours worked in more than one Division of the
parent company as a result of transfer or lay-off.
(c) Employees whose employment is terminated shall receive vacation pay at the appropriate percentage rate as provided in Subsection A #1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6.
6.	Effective June 1, 1986, the vacation year shall be from June 1 to May 31.
SECTION X - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
1.	a) All hourly-rate employees who work on New Year’s Day,
Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day, shall be paid rate and one-half for all hours so worked.
b)	In the event that Christmas Day, Boxing Day or New Year’s Day fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company and the Union shall mutually agree on the days to be observed as the holiday. In the event one of the other above statutory holidays falls on a Saturday or Sunday and the government declares another day as a holiday, then the declared day shall be observed as the holiday.
2.	a) All hourly rated and piece work employees who qualify for
the paid holiday under the conditions set out below shall be paid for the holiday at their regular job rate of pay for eight (8) hours.
Page 32
The Parties hereto agree that the paid Statutory Holidays shall be as follows: New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
b)	Piece work employees shall receive pay for the Statutory Holiday for which they qualify, based on the average hourly earnings for the days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) working days.
c)	All hourly rated employees working on a paid holiday shall receive rate and one-half for hours worked on such days in addition to the holiday pay to which he is entitled.
d)	To qualify for Statutory Holiday pay, an employee must have &en on the Company payroll for the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the Statutory Holiday and must have worked his last regularly scheduled work day before, and his first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his absence is due to a compensable occupational injury or illness, which occurred within six (6) months of the holiday, or the employee is on authorized leave of absence in accordance with SECTION VIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE -2.
e)	In the case of illness or injury, the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
f)	Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, the
employee must have worked one (1) day before and one (1) day after the holiday, both of which must fall within a period of sixty (60) calendar days.
Page 33
3.	a) In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday, and where the Company and the Union agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday, or following Friday respectively.
b)	When a Statutory Holiday falls on a Friday, employees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, may work on the Friday Statutory Holiday at straight time job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday.
c)	In the event that one (1) of the above mentioned Statutory Holidays falls on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or succeeding Monday as agreed between the Company and the Union. In the case of a maintenance employee where one of the Statutory Holidays is observed on his rest day, he shall have a day off without pay in lieu thereof at a mutually agreeable date.
4.	a) Personal Floating Holiday
Regular full-time employees will be granted one (1) personal floating holiday during each contract year of this Agreement, to be arranged at a time suitable to the Employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production.
Employees scheduled to the Alternate Three (3) Day Shift Schedule who are granted a personal floating holiday shall be paid as per their regular shift hours; however, the personal floating holiday must be observed on a normal mill production day (ie. non-silent days).
Page 34
b) Qualifying Conditions
When the personal floating holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his regular job rate of pay for his regular work schedule, subject to the following conditions:
i)	A new employee must have been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days to qualify for the personal floating holiday.
ii)	An employee will not qualify for the personal floating holiday if on leave of absence for more than nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury.
iii)	An employee shall apply on an approved form, at least seven (7) days in advance for his personal floating holiday. The employee shall receive notice of disposition of his request a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested personal floating holiday.
SECTION XI - SAFETY AND HEALTH
1.	(a) The Company and employees will cooperate to assure safe
working methods and conditions and devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon to be provided by the Company.
(b)	Employees will not be expected to operate with unsafe equipment, work under unsafe conditions, or commit unsafe acts.
2,	(a) The Company shall maintain a Joint Safety Committee of a
minimum of eight (8) members. Members of the Committee shall be designated to equal number by the employees and
Page 35
the Company. Employee representatives shall be regular employees experienced in the operation.
(b)	The Union shall maintain a chair person for the Joint Safety Committee.
3.	Industrial Health and Safety Committee meetings will be held during working hours at a time mutually agreed upon. Employees’ time will not be deducted for attending such meetings or investigations into accidents.
4.	The Company will pay straight time rates (at employees’ job rate) for authorized time spent by employee members in attending Safety meetings or other Safety Committee matters outside working hours.
5.	(a) The Company will replace the following equipment at no
cost to the employee when these articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair and when they are required to be used by the Company or the Workers’ Compensation Board:
(i)	Aprons
(ii)	Hard hats
(iii)	Eye, ear and nose protective equipment
(iv)	Welding goggles and gloves
(v)	G1 oves
(vi)	Safety locks
(b)	The Company will assist in the purchase of safety toed boots in the following ways:
(i)	The Company will refund fifty percent (50%) of the cost of each pair of safety toed boots purchased by the employee for his personal use at any retail store upon a valid receipt being presented to the Human Resources Office.
Page 36
(ii)	The Company assistance for boot purchases is limited to two (2) pair per year. Exceptions will be made for unusual wear and tear on an individual basis.
(c)	The Company will make rain gear available for those
employees who are required to work in adverse weather conditions.
(d)	Employees wishing to do so may purchase insulated
coveralls by payroll deduction through the Purchasing Office. The Company will assist with cleaning and maintenance as necessary.
(e)	Custom moulded hearing protection: Exclusive of 5(aXiii)
above, the Joint Safety Committee will coordinate the custom fitting and employee purchase by payroll deduction of custom moulded hearing protection (plugs). Employees will pay any costs greater than the normal cost of ear muffs.
SECTION XII - STANDING COMMITTEE
1.	A Standing Committee shall be maintained in the following manner:
(a)	The Management shall appoint a Company Standing
Committee of no more than six (6) individuals, which shall represent the Company.
(b)	The Union shall elect from its membership a Union Standing Committee of no more than six (6) individuals which shall represent the Union.
2 The Union will, within thirty (30) days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members of the
Page 37
Standing Committee. The Union and Company will inform each other in writing when any member changes on the Standing Committee. No member of the Standing Committee will be recognized by the Company or Union unless the above procedure is carried out.
SECTION XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
1.	In the event that there is any dispute or complaint as to the interpretation of any of the clauses of this Agreement or any grievance arising out of the operation of this Agreement, it shall be dealt with in the following manner:
(a)	The individual employee involved shall first take up the
matter with the foreman directly in charge of the work (with or without the Shop Steward) at the option of the employee, within fourteen (14) days of the occurrence of the event or events giving rise to the grievance. Where the employee wishes to have a Shop Steward accompany him, the Company will endeavor to relieve the Shop Steward as quickly as possible.
(b)	If the grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Standing Committee, where it shall be reduced to writing and shall be dealt with within thirty (30) days of the initiation of the grievance.
(c)	If the two (2) Standing Committees are unable to arrive at a satisfactory settlement, the question may be taken up with the Step 3 Committee, within fourteen (14) days of the completion of the procedure outlined in (b) above.
(d)	If the Step 3 Committee is unable to arrive at a satisfactory settlement within five (5) days, the question may within
Page 38
fourteen (14) days of completion of this procedure be referred to a board of arbitration as provided for in SECTION XIII -GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE - 3.
(e)	The Step 3 Committee will be comprised of the President of the PPWC Local 18 and the Site Manager and their designates. The Union President and the Site Manager shall notify each other of their designates prior to any meeting.
(f)	It is agreed that the above time limits may be extended by mutual agreement, but if a grievance has not advanced to the next step within the specified or extended time limit, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all right of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end.
(g)	It is hereby agreed that the inclusion of SECTION XIII -GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE • 1(a), “The individual employee involved shall first take up the matter with the foreman directly in charge of the work, with or without the Shop Steward, at the option of the employee, within fourteen (14) days of the occurrence of the event or events giving rise to the grievance”, shall not be used to discourage employees and supervisors from discussing mutual problems and complaints on a person-to-person basis.
2.	(a) Grievances not appropriate for an individual to pursue may
be referred directly to the Standing Committee by the Union within fourteen (14) days of the occurrence of the event or events giving rise to the grievance.
(b)	Grievances which the Company wishes to pursue may be referred directly to the Standing Committee within fourteen (14) days of the occurrence of the event or events giving rise to the grievance.
Page 39
(c)	Grievances described in SECTION XIII - GRIEVANCE
PROCEDURE ■ 2 (a) & (b) shall be resolved through the procedure described in SECTION XHI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE -1.
(d)	It is the intent of this Agreement that grievances of individual employees shall be dealt with as described in SECTION XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE - 1.
(e)	Except in unusual circumstances, an employee will have
Union representation present (if he/she wishes) at all disciplinary meetings involving a written warning or more serious disciplinary action.
3.	In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation or application of this Agreement, which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by arbitration in the following manner:
(a)	Either party may notify the other party in writing by
registered mail of the dispute to be arbitrated, and the name and address of its chosen representative for the Arbitration Board. After receiving such notice and statement, the other party shall, within five (5) days, appoint an Arbitrator and give notice in writing of such appointment and the name and address of its Arbitrator.
(b)	The two (2) Arbitrators thus named shall, within ten (10) days, do everything in their power to choose a third Arbitrator who will preside as Chairman for the Board of Arbitration.
(c)	In all matters of procedure not covered by the provisions of this section, including alternate procedure for the selection of
Page 40
the third Arbitrator, the provisions of the Arbitration Act (R.S.B.C 1960 Chapter 14) shall apply.
(d)	No one shall serve as a member of an Arbitration Board who:
(i)	either directly or indirectly has any interest in the subject of the arbitration;
(ii)	has participated in the grievance procedure preceding
the arbitration;
(iii)	is, or has been, within a period of six (6) months preceding the initiation of arbitration proceedings, employed by the Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers of Canada, Local 18 or Slocan Croup - Mackenzie Operations.
(e)	If any Arbitration Board finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, such employee shall be reinstated with all his rights and privileges under the terms of the Agreement. The Arbitration Board shall further make the determination on the amount of lost pay to be paid to the employee.
(f)	The Parties of the Fist and Second parts will each bear the expenses and charges of their representatives on any Arbitration Board and shall bear, in equal proportions, the expenses and allowances of the Chairman the stenographic and secretarial expenses and rent.
(g)	When practical, any arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held at Mackenzie.
(h)	If both the Company and the Union agree, a one-man
Arbitration Board may be implemented.
Page 41
SECTION XIV - GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	Official Union Representatives shall obtain access to the Company’s operations for the purpose of the Agreement by written permission, which will be granted by the Company on request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
2.	(a) It is agreed that there shall be no strikes, walk-outs or other
interruption of work during the term of this Agreement.
(b)	It is agreed that there shall be no lock-outs by the Company during the term of this Agreement.
(c)	In the event of any conduct within the meaning of (a) above, during the term of this Agreement the Union will instruct its members and officers to comply with the terms of this Agreement.
3.	The Company shall supply adequately enclosed bulletin boards for the use of the Union in posting officially signed bulletins. One (I) board will be placed in each lunchroom.
4.	Lay-off coverage for medical benefits will be provided on the following basis:
(a)	Employees with four (4) months of employment or less:
Coverage until the end of the month following the month in which they were laid off.
(b)	Employees with four (4) months to one (1) year of
employment:
Three (3) months of coverage following the month in which they were laid off.
Page 42
(c)	Employees with one (I) year or more of service:
Six (6) months of coverage following the month in which they were laid oft'.
(d)	In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur, there must be a return to regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he is employed for ten (10) working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive (calendar) days.
(e)	Also, an employee who returns to work for at least one (l) working day and less than ten (10) working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any lay-off coverage to which he was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
New Weekly Indemnity claims will not be established during lay-off periods, Medical travel ceases except for ongoing treatment.
SECTION XV - HEALTH AND WELFARE PLAN
1.	Institution
It is agreed that a health and welfare plan be instituted within the principles hereinafter set out.
2.	Board of Trustees
A Board of Trustees will be comprised of two (2) members representing the Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers of Canada, Local 18, and two (2) members representing the Company, to be responsible for the placement of coverage and administration of the plan. However, the Parties’ obligation shall be subject to the limitations in the contracts of the selected carrier or carriers.
Page 43
3.	Umpire
Where a dispute is unresolvable by the Board of Trustees, it shall be submitted to an umpire whose decision will be binding on both parties. The umpire shall be mutually acceptable and be experienced in the group insurance field.
Notwithstanding the above, an umpire shall not decide on matters affecting the overall cost of the Plan and benefits it provides, nor is he empowered to deal with matters properly handled through the Adjustment of Complaints Procedure of this Agreement, or matters that are properly dealt with through collective bargaining.
Should any conflict arise between the terms of the contract or contracts issued by the underwriter and the terms of the plan, the terms of the plan shall prevail.
4.	Insurance Coverage for Eligible Employees, as follows:
1(a) Group Life Insurance in accordance with the following Table of Hourly Job Rate Brackets and corresponding coverage. Benefits will be payable as a result of death, from any cause on a twenty-four (24) hour coverage basis.
(b) Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance in accordance with the following Table of Hourly Job Rate Brackets and corresponding coverage, on a twenty-four (24) hour coverage basis. Medical and Extended Medical coverage.
(c)	The maximum lifetime amount of Extended Health Benefits payable for any one (1) member or dependent will be fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). The maximum benefit for Physiotherapist & Massage Practitioners in any one calendar
Page 44
year is five hundred titty ($550.00) per member or dependent. The maximum benefit for Chiropractors in any one calendar year is six hundred ($600.00) per member or dependent, The maximum benefit for Naturopaths in any one calendar year is four hundred ($400.00) per member or dependent.
Effective July 1, 2000, the Extended Health Benefits Plan will include the following benefits: gloves for members or dependents who use wheelchairs, catheters, bath bench suction cups, hydraulic lifts for getting in and out of the bath tubs, repairs to specialty items (wheelchairs), new tires for wheelchairs, wheelchair purchase or replacement.
(d)	Vision Care for Employees and Dependents. Payment, up to a maximum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period, for charges incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription; provided, however, that if the eyeglasses are for an employee for use while working in a mill they must be safety lenses and frames.
(e)	All full-time employees who are actively working on the first working day of the month following their date of employment, will be enrolled for the coverage set forth in Sections (a), (b) and (c) as a condition of employment.
(0 A Dental Care Plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
(i)	(Plan A) Basic dental services
Plan pays eighty percent (80%) of approved schedule
of fees.
(ii)	(Plan B) Prosthetics, crowns and bridges
Page 45
The plan pays sixty percent (60%) of approved schedule of fees.
(iii)	(Plan C) Orthodontic
Plan pays sixty percent (60%) of approved schedule of fees.
Lifetime maximum of three thousand ($3000.00), maximum age - nineteen (19) years.
(iv)	The Plan will not duplicate benefits provided now or which may be provided in the future by any government program.
(g)	Premium costs in (a), (b), (c), (d), and (f) above will be paid by the Company.
(h)	Non-occupational Weekly Indemnity Benefits payable
beginning the first day of disability caused by nonoccupational accident and beginning with the fourth day of disability caused by non-occupational sickness, except that in those cases of non-occupational sickness which have resulted in the claimant being hospitalized as a bed patient, the said Weekly Indemnity benefits will be payable beginning the first day of hospitalization or the fourth day of disability, whichever occurs first. Benefits will be payable for a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks during any one (1) period of disability, in accordance with the following table of Hourly Job Rate Brackets and corresponding coverage. The Plan Text will be amended to permit Laser Surgery for medical reasons only, not for cosmetic purposes. Members will qualify for a Weekly Benefit commencing the first day of disability.
-The regular wage rate of the employee in effect on July 1st and January 1st will determine his entitlement to the weekly indemnity benefit in the following table. The rate paid to Flat Car loaders on
Page 46
Canada Day as per SECTION X - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS - 2
(b) will be considered the regular wage in effect that July I st.
The Union accepts the Non-occupational Weekly Indemnity Benefits Plan as payment in kind of the employee’s share of any reduction in the Unemployment Insurance premium which may occur in 1981 and 1982 as a result of this plan under Unemployment Insurance Regulations.
Page 47
A. Table of Hourly Job Rate Brackets and Corresponding
Coverage
NON OCCUPATIONAL WEEKLY ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS INSURANCE
Hourly Job Rate
$18.50
18.75
19.00
19.25
19.50
19.75
20.00
20.25
20.50
20.75 21.00
21.25
21.50
21.75 22.00
22.25
22.50
22.75 23.00
23.25
but less than
and over
$18.75
19.00
19.25
19.50
19.75
20.00
20.25
20.50
20.75 21.00
21.25
21.50
21.75 22.00
22.25
22.50
22.75 23.00
23.25
Weekly Amount Received $480.00
485.00
490.00
495.00
500.00
505.00
510.00
515.00
520.00
525.00
530.00
535.00
540.00
545.00
550.00
555.00
560.00
565.00
570.00
575.00
GROUP LIFE & ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT
Group Term Life	AD&D
Effective July 1,2001	$90,000.00	$90,000.00
Effective July 1,2002	$100,000.00	$100,000.00
Page 48
Canada Day as per SECTION X - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS - 2
(b) will be considered the regular wage in effect that July 1st.
The Union accepts the Non-occupational Weekly Indemnity Benefits Plan as payment in kind of the employee’s share of any reduction in the Unemployment Insurance premium which may occur in 3981 and 1982 as a result of this plan under Unemployment Insurance Regulations.
Page 47
A. Table of Hourly Job Rate Brackets and Corresponding
Coverage
NON OCCUPATIONAL WEEKLY ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS INSURANCE
Hourly Job Rate
$18.50
18.75
19.00
19.25
19.50
19.75
20.00
20.25
20.50
20.75 21.00
21.25
21.50
21.75 22.00
22.25
22.50
22.75 23.00
23.25
but less than
and over
$18.75
19.00
19.25
19.50
19.75
20.00
20.25
20.50
20.75 21.00
21.25
21.50
21.75 22.00
22.25
22.50
22.75 23.00
23.25
Weekly Amount Received $480.00
485.00
490.00
495.00
500.00
505.00
510.00
515.00
520.00
525.00
530.00
535.00
540.00
545.00
550.00
555.00
560.00
565.00
570.00
575.00
GROUP LIFE & ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT
Group Term Life	AD&D
Effective July 1,2001	$90,000.00	$90,000.00
Effective July 1,2002	$100,000.00	$100,000.00
Page 48
(i)	The Company agrees to make available to the Union
Membership a Voluntary Life Insurance and Accidental Death & Dismemberment program effective April I, 1995.
(j)	Long Term Disability Insurance (effective September 1, 1979) to provide benefits of fifty percent (50%) of regular weekly earnings calculated at forty (40) times disabled employee’s hourly straight time job rate, at date of disability, with Long Term Disability benefits payable for a minimum period of sixty (60) months but not beyond the attainment of age sixty-five (65). Other terms and conditions of this plan and conditions pertaining to implementation will be established pursuant to the Long Term Disability Plan Summary, dated September 11,1979. Amended July 1,1981.
(k)	All full-time employees who are actively working on the first working day of the month following their first full month of employment will be enrolled for the coverage set forth in sections (f), (Ii), and (i) as condition of employment.
(l)	Premium costs will be shared seventy percent (70%) by the Company and thirty percent (30%) by the employee with respect to coverage set forth in sections (h) and (i) above.
A. Medical Travel
The Company will provide the following coverage to employees and registered dependents who live in Mackenzie. As well, the coverage may be provided in sympathetic circumstances to those who do not reside in Mackenzie; approval in this regard must be obtained from the Joint Board of Trustees established under SECTION XV - HEALTH AND WELFARE - 2.
(i) Travel Beyond Prince George
Page 49
(a)	Where, in the opinion of the attending physician treating a member employee and/or his registered dependents, adequate treatment is not available locally, transportation by regularly scheduled air, rail or bus will be provided to and from the nearest locale in BC equipped to provide the required and recommended treatment by a physician or surgeon within two (2) months of referral or the earliest available appointment thereafter.
(b)	Where necessary, and at the request of the attending
physician, provision for transportation of an attendant in connection with the aforementioned transportation of any employee or his registered dependents will also be covered.
(c)	Where transportation has been provided to the nearest locale where adequate facilities are available, provision for assistance regarding accommodation limited to commercial facilities for patients or attendants but not both (where the attendant is a member of the patient’s immediate family) before and after medical treatment to a limit of seven (7) days, at a maximum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day included in the seven (7) day limit are, if necessary, *two (2) nights in Prince George. (*One (1) going and one (1) returning).
(i)	“Sympathetic” consideration shall be given on an individual basis to extend the seven (7) days maximum where the required treatment extends beyond this length of time. The criteria for this consideration shall be determined by the Joint Board of Trustees.
(ii)	Fare allowance for transportation to and from the hospital or doctor’s office will be provided for up to a maximum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per medical travel trip, upon presentation of receipts.
Page 50
(d)	Where an employee qualifies for transportation under Section 1 (i) (a) above, he may elect to use his own vehicle and receive the equivalent bus fare from Prince George to the nearest locale in BC equipped to provide the required and recommended treatment. An employee receiving transportation assistance for travel beyond Prince George will be entitled to a flat rate of seventy dollars ($70.00) for the Mackenzie - Prince George return segment
(e)	Gut of province travel plan
When, in the opinion of the attending physician and attending specialist, a medical procedure is required that is not available in BC, and is one for which the Medical Services Plan of BC will accept financial responsibility, the cost of travel and accommodation to the limits specified below will be paid for by the Plan. Where the attending physician specifies that an attendant is required, the travel and accommodation expenses for such person will be paid to the limit specified.
The maximum limit under any one claim will be the return economy airfare or equivalent for the patient and the attendant, plus accommodation expenses. Receipts will be required for all expenses and the maximum shall not exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) except as provided for under “sympathetic circumstances”.
This benefit will not stack on top of or duplicate existing provisions under local Medical Travel Benefit or government plans.
Page 51
(ii) Travel within the Northern Interior
(a)	An employee will be entitled to the flat rate of seventy dollars ($70.00) for the Mackenzie - Prince George return segment, seventy-five dollars ($75.00) Mackenzie - Dawson Creek return, and ninety dollars ($90.00) Mackenzie - Fort St. John return.
(b)	Employees and/or their registered dependents referred for treatment at a regional centre will be entitled to a maximum accommodation allowance of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day.
(c)	Referrals within the Northern Interior Region for chiropractic and (by a dentist) for orthodontistry will be included as long as these services are not available in Mackenzie.
(d)	Referrals within the Northern Interior Region for Accupuncture, Clinical Psychology, Speech Therapy, and Physiotherapy will be included, as long as such treatment is covered by the Extended Health Benefit Plan and as long as these services are not available in Mackenzie.
(iii)	The company will be responsible for the entire cost of this benefit.
Definitions:
1.	Registered dependents shall be the same as defined under Medical Services Plan of BC.
5.	It is agreed in the administration of the Mackenzie Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers Health and Welfare Plan that the membership in the plan of employees temporarily promoted to Supervisory or Staff positions, will continue during the period of such assignment and that they shall be entitled to all benefits provided under the Plan for this period.
Page 52
6.	Enrollment in the medical, extended medical, dental and vision care plans shall only be required of one (1) member of a married couple where both husband and wife are employees of Slocan Group • Mackenzie Operations.
7.	As it is recognized that fire fighting is the moral responsibility of all employees, the Company will provide additional accidental death and dismemberment insurance in the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for all employees only on claims arising from fire fighting activities including practices. Premiums will be paid by the Company.
8.	Change in Benefits
In the case of an employee who is on active claim arising from disability which occurred before a negotiated change in benefits and which continues thereafter, the said employee shall, as from the effective date of the negotiated change, be paid the changed weekly indemnity benefit, be covered for the changed Group Term Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, and make the changed contributions.
9.	Surviving Spouse and Dependent Coverage
Where the surviving spouse and dependents of a deceased employee are not covered by such plans by reason of their own employment, the Company shall extend the coverage under the Medical Services Plan, the Extended Health Plan and the Dental Plan for a period of twelve (12) months following the death.
Page 53
SECTION XVI - PENSION PLAN
1.	Board of Trustees
A Board of Trustees will be comprised of two (2) members representing the Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers of Canada, Local 18 and two (2) members representing the Company to be responsible for the administration of the plans outlined in the Trust Document.
2.	Benefits
Pension benefits for active and retired participants who retire or have retired on pension directly from the bargaining unit under the PPWC Wood Products Pension Plan, will be as follows:
(a) Effective July 1, 2000, the Future Service Benefit will be increased from $42.50 per month, per year of service to $52.50 per month, per year of service based on increased Company contributions.
(b)	Effective July 1, 2000, an employee contribution of $0.25/hour will be made in order to fund an additional Future Service Benefit increase of $10.00 per month, per year of service. This employee contribution rate will be reviewed at the termination of this contract and it will be adjusted so that the contribution fully funds the $10.00 Future Service Benefit Improvement that it represents.
(c)	In the event that during the term of the 2000-2003 Collective Agreement the solid wood sector pension trustees agree to enhance the current solid wood sector pension benefit, Slocan Group - Mackenzie Operations will, on July 1, 2003 improve the PPWC Mackenzie Wood Products Pension Plan Benefit
Page 54
to an amount equivalent to that increase to the solid wood sector members which is above their $10.00 benefit improvement proposed to be given on January 1, 200 1.
For further clarification:
Past Benefit	$42.50
Future Benefit (2000)	$52.50 (company paid) & $10.00 (employee paid)
Future Benefit (2003)	$62.50 (company paid) & $10.00 (employee paid)
3.	Funding
The Company will continue to contribute monies to the pension plan at a level actuarially determined pursuant to this section and Supplements 4 for the purpose of keeping the pension plan solvent and fully funded.
4.	Effective from July 1, 1995, terminated vested employees will not be entitled to a subsidized early retirement pension.
5.	The Company and the Union will request the actuary to utilize assumptions on a percent determined by the trustees and the actuary in accordance with government regulations and a “smoothed” asset value. It is understood that the Company will immediately fund any liability, which may arise as a result of utilisation of these assumptions.
SECTION XVII - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
1.	The Parties agree to continue the established apprenticeship training programs, attached as Supplement No. 2 to this agreement, for the following trades: electrician, heavy-duty mechanic,
Page 55
sprinklerman-pipefitter, welder/steel fabrication, millwright, planer mechanic, carpenter, filing room categories and painter, in accordance with the Apprenticeship Branch of British Columbia.
2.	Subject to the conditions ofthis section as listed below, it is agreed that following completion of the period of training and upon becoming certified, the journeyman shall receive the certified journeyman’s rate of pay. Conditions under which the above will apply:
(a)	That he is working in the maintenance department.
(b)	That all work normally done by the maintenance department is being performed by the persons employed in the maintenance department.
(c)	That nothing in this clause shall prohibit the laying-off of journeymen or apprentices if they are not required.
(d)	That a journeyman may, when facing lay-off, choose to
exercise his seniority into categories outside of the maintenance area at the job rate of the new position if his seniority and ability entitle him to do so.
3.	Selection for entry into the Apprenticeship Program will be made in the following manner:
(a)	Education — A candidate will not be considered for an
apprenticeship without documentary proof of education that meets the minimum Apprenticeship Branch requirements for the specified trade.
(b)	Seniority — An employee must have a minimum of one (1) year Wood Products seniority before being eligible for an
Page 56
apprenticeship. Two (2) points will be awarded for each year of Wood Products seniority. There is no limit on the points attributed to seniority but the successful candidate must be able to commit to work in the trade for five (5) years after completion of the apprenticeship.
(c)	Pre-apprenticeship Training - Any candidate who has
successfully completed a recognized pre-apprenticeship course in the specific trade shall be awarded a maximum of five (5) points. A candidate who does not have preapprenticeship training in the specific trade may receive up to a maximum of three (3) points for successfully completing a related pre-apprenticeship course as determined by the Apprenticeship Committee.
(d)	Training Courses - Any candidate who has successfully
completed one or more courses from Technical School, University, College, Vocational or night school, may be awarded a maximum of ten (10) points. The points will be awarded by the Joint Apprenticeship Committee for academic or industry-related courses. Points will be based on the relevance of the course(s) to the apprenticeship applied for.
(e)	Existing Trades - Apprenticeships are designed primarily for people who are not presently in a certified or uncertified trade. Candidates applying for an apprenticeship posting who are currently employed as tradesmen shall have twenty (20) points subtracted from their point total.
(f)	Point Allotment Review - Points awarded under this
agreement will be reviewed with the Apprenticeship Committee before a candidate is required to write the tests below:
Page 57
(g)	Testing - Candidates shall be required to write the following six tests: Problem Solving, General Learning Test, Mechanical Comprehension, Spatial Comprehension, Arithmetic, Pattern/Similarity Identification.
Test results will be scaled, with the maximum being nine (9) points. Four (4) points must be obtained in Mechanical Comprehension and Arithmetic before any applicant can qualify for an apprenticeship. An applicant must score acceptable (4 or more points each) on 3 of the 4 remaining tests.
The scaled marks will be worth an aggregate maximum of twenty five (25) points.
Employees may write the tests twice provided at least one (1) year has passed from the date of first writing. With documented proof of upgrading, au employee may write the tests for a third and final time.
(h)	Marking Tests — A Union member of the Apprenticeship
Committee shall be present during the marking of the tests.
(0 Test Results - An individual’s apprenticeship test results shag be made available upon his or her request.
© Probationary Period - An Apprentice will serve a probationary period of sixty (60) working days. If an apprentice does not successfully complete the probationary period the apprenticeship will be reposted.
Page 58
SECTION XVIII-JOB ELIMINATION & TECHNOLOGY CHANGE
1.	Definition
Job elimination means permanent loss of employment as the result of Company decisions to eliminate positions, excluding those in No. 2 below.
Technology change, which term shall include automation, mechanization, and process change, means the introduction of equipment or material of a different nature or kind than that previously utilized, or a change in the operation that is directly related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
2.	Exclusions
No payment will be made under No. 7 in cases:
(a)	of curtailments of a temporary, seasonal, or indefinite
duration which includes those caused by market or economic conditions
(b)	of employees hired for work of known or temporary duration.
3.	Required Notice of Technological Change
The Company will advise the Union, as soon as possible, and in any case, not less than one hundred and eighty (180) days before the introduction of mechanization, technological changes and/or automation which the Company has decided to introduce and which will result in terminations or other significant changes in employment status of individual employees.
Page 59
The Company will advise the Union, as soon as possible, and in any case not less than thirty (30) days before the expected date of change, of the anticipated time sequence of final installation and production start-up and the anticipated effect on the job status of individual employees.
4.	Notice of Job Elimination
The Company will advise the Standing Committee at least thirty (30) days prior to job elimination, Crew reduction will be in
accordance with SECTION VII - SENIORITY.
5.	Job Elimination Options
An employee who qualifies under job elimination, may elect one of the following options:
(a)	Recall and seniority retention as per SECTION VII -
SENIORITY, or
(b)	Severance allowance as per No. 7 below. Such employee must elect his option within thirty (30) days of notification that his loss of employment is permanent. If Option (b) is selected, the employee will be deemed to have terminated effective the last day worked. Where a temporary curtailment becomes permanent, severance eligibility will be determined by the status of the employee at the time of the temporary curtailment.
6.	Seniority Status
In cases of technological changes:
Page 60
(a)	In the event that it is necessary, crews will be reduced in accordance with SECTION VII - SENIORITY, of the Agreement.
(b)	An employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of mechanization, technological change or automation, will receive the rate of his regular job at the time of the set-back for a period of six (6) months, and for a further period of six (6) months he will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his regular job at the time of the set-back and the rate of his new regular job. At the end of this twelve (12) month period, the rate of his regular job will apply.
(c)	If, through the application of SECTION VII - SENIORITY, the employee moves to a lower, equal, or higher rated job because of mechanization, technological change or automation, he will have the option of terminating his employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 7 (a) below, provided he exercises his option within six (6) months of starting on the job.
1. Severance Allowance
Employees may be eligible for a Severance Allowance under job elimination or technological change but not both. Any employee affected by job elimination or any employee with one or more years of continuous service for whom no job is available because of mechanization, technological change or automation will, upon termination, receive a severance allowance calculated by one of the two following methods, it being the choice of the affected employee as to which of such methods of calculation is used:
Page 61
(a)	One week’s pay for each year of employment during his last period of continuous service, computed on the basis of fifty-six (56) straight time hours at the employee’s regular rate, the maximum severance allowance payable being thirty (30) week’s pay.
(b)	Two percent (2%) of his total earnings for the last period of continuous service, the maximum severance allowance payable being an amount equal to one thousand six hundred eighty (1,680) hours at the employee’s regular rate.
At the time of separation, the employee shall have the option of receiving his severance allowance on termination, or he may elect to have his severance allowance held in abeyance for up to one (1) year from the date of termination. He may apply in writing at any time during the year, at which time his full severance allowance will be paid forthwith.
Employees affected by technological change for whom no employment is available will be given at least thirty (30) day’s notice of separation.
When weeks of severance pay combined with the termination dates carries into the following year, the employee has the option to have the severance pay payable in the following year. The severance allowance will not be more than the employee would normally receive if he remained at work at forty (40) hours per week to his normal retirement date.
8. Training
The Company agrees to participate in a program of training or retraining for another job within the operation for those employees who are displaced under technological change.
Page 62
9. Retiring Allowance
(a)	The Company and Union recognize that in face of significant reduction of the workforce due to job elimination, attrition through early retirement is a preferential way to decrease the size of the workforce.
For the term of this Agreement, and consistent with 3. Required Notice for Technological Change and 4, Notice for Job Elimination above, and, the continued availability of a skilled workforce, a one-month window of opportunity will be opened for eligible employees to exercise a retirement leaving option.
(b)	Employees exercising the option shall terminate their employment within four (4) weeks after the implementation ofthe job elimination.
(c)	Eligible employees are those employees who are fifty-five (55) years or older and who qualify for pension benefits under the PPWC Mackenzie Wood Products Plan.
(d)	Employees wishing to exercise the Retirement Leaving Option shall be entitled to receive a Retirement Allowance equivalent to the value specified in No. 7 above as well as pension benefits in accordance with the applicant’s pension entitlement.
(e)	The Retirement Leaving Allowance may be directly rolled into an RRSP or other tax shelter as may be permissible under the Income Tax Act, otherwise it will be subject to the appropriate tax deductions.
Page 63
SECTION XIX - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
1.	The Parties hereunto mutually agree that this Agreement shall he effective from and after the 1st day of July, 2000 to the 30th day of June, 2003 and thereafter from year to year unless written notice as specified in the Labour Code of British Columbia Act (1979 Section 62) of contrary intention is given by the parties.
The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the Divisional Office in Mackenzie of the Party of the First Part or at the Local Office of the Local Officers of the Union, Party of the Second Part. If no agreement is reached at the expiration of this contract and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time that a subsequent Agreement is reached, or until negotiations are discontinued by either Party.
2.	The Parties hereto agree that the operations of Section 66(2) of the Labour Code of British Columbia Act 1979 is specifically excluded from operation in the Agreement.
Page 64
Dated this t 3th day of October, 2000 to i
SLOCAN GROUP - MACKENZIE OPERATIONS
Keith McGregor Tom Brooks Steve McMullen Marie Nygaard Scott Phillips
PULP, PAPER AND WOODWORKERS OF CANADA, LOCAL 18
Dave Seright Wayne Kipkc Glen Nelson Brian Sali
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1 -WAGE RATES
Effective	Effective
Jull/00	JullO 1
A-SAWMTTT,
Group 1
Pit Control
Cut-off Saw/Barker Op. Step Feeder/Barker Op. Utility/Rover
Group Minimum Step 1 Step 2 Step 3
Group Maximum Group 2
Auto Pause Edger Maxi Edger
Group Minimum Group Maximum
Group 3
End Stacker Chippers/Conveyors Unscrambler Presort Operator Group Minimum Step 1 Step 2
Group Maximum
S 22.89	$ 23.35
$23.14	$23.60
$23.25	$23.71
$ 23.37	$ 23.84
$23.47	$23.94
$ 22.88	$ 23.34
$23.10	$23.57
$21.70	$22.13
$21.82	$22.26
$21.94	$22.38
$ 22.06	$ 22.50
Page 66
Effective
Jul 1/02
$ 23.82 $24.07 $24.18 $24.31 $ 24.42
$23.81
$24.04
$ 22.57 $ 22.70 $22.83 $ 22.95
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1 - WAGE RATES
Effective Effective
Key Jobs	Jul 1/00	Jul 1/01
Sawyer	$ 27.96	$28.52
Chargehand	$ 24.32	$ 24.80
Chip-N-Saw	$ 23.36	$ 23.83
Canter	$ 23.86	$ 24.34
Grader Trimmer	$24.91	$25.41
Utility	$23.10	$ 23.57
C-SAWMTTT,		
Group 1
Step Feeder/Barker Op.
Group 2
Trimmer/Optimizer Op
Edger Operator
Group Minimum Group Maximum Group 3
Solid Stacker Unscrambler Operator
Page 67
$23,74	$24.22
8 22.88	$23.34
$23.10	$23.57
Effective
Jul1/02
$ 29.09 $25.30 $24.31 $ 24.83 $25.91 $ 24.04
$ 24.70
$23.81 $ 24.04
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1 -WAGE RATES
Patrol Person Main Floor Group Minimum Step 1
Group Maximum
Effective	Effective
Jul 1/00	Jul 1/01
$21.70	$22.13
$21.88	$22.32
$ 22.06	$ 22.50
Key Jobs Canter Twin Chip-N-Saw Chargehand
$23.86	$24.34
$23.36	$23.83
$ 24.32	$ 24.80
PROCESSING
Planer Group Unstacker
Bander
Dry End Stacker Tally
Group Minimum Step 1 Step 2
Group Maximum Grading Group
$21.49	$21.92
$21.68	$22.11
$21.88	$22.32
$ 22.06	$ 22.50
Mill Grader
Effective
Jul 1/02
$ 22.57
$ 22.76 $ 22.95
$ 24.83 $ 24.3 1 $25.30
$ 22.35 $22.55 $22.76 $ 22.95
Page 68
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1 -WAGE RATES
Effective	Effective
Jul 1/00	Jul 1/01
Grader
Croup Minimum Step 1
Croup Maximum Shipping
Flat Car w/Bulkheads Centre Beam Cars Carloader Standby Rate
$ 22.64	$ 23.09
$ 23.40	$ 23.87
$24.91	$25.41
$1.012/m	$1.012/m
$ 0.383/m	$ 0.383/m
$21.62	$22.06
Key Jobs
Chargehand Kiln Operator Forklift Operator Kiln Chargehand Planer Feeder Red Circled Feeder
$ 24.32	$ 24.80
$23.34	$23.80
$22.66	$23.12
$24.62	$25.12
$ 22.09	$ 22.54
$22.35	$22.80
MAINTENANCE
Trades Group
Electrician
Heavy Duty Mechanic
Millwright
Sprinkler-Pipefitter
$27,445	$27,990
$27,445	$ 27,990
3 27.445	$ 27.990
$ 27.445	$ 27.990
Effective
Jul 1/02
$23.55 $ 24.35 $25.91
$1.012/m $ 0.383/m $ 22.50
$25.30 $ 24.28 $23.58 $25.62 $ 22.99 $23.26
$28,550 $ 28.550 $ 28.550 $28,550
Page 69
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1 -WAGE RATES
carpenter
Welder “A” and FI 101 or 102
Painter
Head Filer
Benchman
Circular Sawfiler
Saw Fitter
Filer’s Helper (Yr 1)
Filer’s Helper (Yr 2)
Planermill Maintenance Technician II (1st Yr) Planermill Maintenance Technician II (2nd Yr) Planermill Maintenance Technician I(lstYr) Planermill Maintenance Technician I (Certified) Chargehand Premium over job rate
Apprentice Rates
4th Year Apprentice 3rd Year Apprentice 2nd Year Apprentice 1st Year Apprentice
Effective Jul 1/00 $ 27.445
$ 27.445 $ 27.445 $29,210 $28,215 $ 27.445 $27,015 $22,150 $22,875 $22,150
$22,875
$25,080
$27,445
$ 0.390
$ 25.080 $23,115 $ 22.275 $21,905
Effective Jul PO 1 $ 27.990
$ 27.990 $27,990 $ 29.790 $28,780 $27,990 $27,555 $22,590 $ 23.330 $ 22.590
$ 23.330
$25,585
$ 27.990
$ 0.390
$25,585 $ 23.575 $ 22.720 $ 22.345
Effective Jul 1/02 $28,550
$28,550 $28,550 $ 30.390 $29,355 $28,550 $28,105 $ 23.045 $23,800 $23,045
$23,800
$26,095
$ 28.550
$ 0.390
$26,095 $ 24.045 $23,175 $22,790
Page 70
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1 -WAGE RATES
Key Jobs Oiler
Utility (Garage) Grinderman
Unposted Positions
Sparkwatcher
(1st 6 months) (after 6 months)
Effective Effective Jul 1/00	Jul 1/01
$ 23.775	$ 24.250
$22,970	$23,430
$23,730	$24,205
$21,070	$21,490
$21,300	$21,725
LOGYARD
Chargehand
Bundle Handling
Log Handling
Bucket Loader
General Equipment Op.
Weighmaster
Chip & Hog Track Op.
$ 24.32	$ 24.80
$24.91	$25.41
$ 23.86	$ 24.34
$ 22.52	$ 22.97
$24.15	$24.64
$23.69	$24.17
$23.10	$23.57
NON-DEPARTMENT
Freight/Mail Clerk Group 4 (unposted) Elm Patrol Strip Piler/Layer
$21.60	$22.03
$21.30	$21.72
$21.30	$21.72
Page 71
Effective
Jul 1/02
$ 24.735 $ 23.900 $24,690
$21,920
$22,160
$ 25.30 $25.91 $ 24.83 $ 23.43 $25.13 $ 24.65 $ 24.04
$ 22.47
$22.16
$22.16
SUPPLEMENT NO.
Conveyor Chaser Log Pit Patrol Sweeps Labourer Belts
Clean-Up
(1st 12 months) (after 12 months) Other Jobs (unposted)
Janitor
(1st 12 mos)
(after 12 mos)
Bobcat Operator
l-WAGE RATES Effective	Effective
Jul 1/00	Jul 1/01
$21.30	$21.72
$21.30	$21.72
$21.30	$21.72
$21.07	$21.49
$21.30	$21.72
$21.07	$21.49
$21.30	$21.72
$21.07	$21.49
$21.30	$21.72
$21.30	$21.72
Effective Jul 1/02 $22.16
$22.16
$22.16
$21.92
$22.16
$21.92
$22.16
$21.92
$22.16
$22.16
Page 72
First Aid Premium
The following premiums shall be paid to employees who hold the following current valid WCB Occupational First Aid Ticket:
Level 1 (Survival First Aid) - five cents ($.05)/hour Level 2 - fifteen cents ($.15)/hour Level 3 - twenty-five cents ($.25)/hour
Grading Ticket Premium
(a)	All employees who hold valid Grading Tickets shall receive a bonus of five cents ($.05) per hour over their job rate for all hours worked.
(b)	Lumber graders who hold a non-current (>2 years) valid Grading Ticket shall receive the following bonus:
B Ticket -ten cents ($0.10)/hour A Ticket - fifteen cents ($0.15)/hour.
(c)	Lumber graders who hold a current (<2 years) valid Grading
Ticket shall receive the following bonus:
B Ticket - fifty cents ($0.50)/hour A Ticket - sixty-five cents ($0.65)/hour AA Ticket - one dollar ($1.00)/hour
(d)	All lumber graders shall attend upgrading classes as required.
Lumber Graders who are required to attend upgrading classes (grading rule changes) shall receive their regular straight time rate for time spent in attending such classes.
Page 73
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2 - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Article I - Purpose
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledge and shill of persons employed by the Company as Apprentices in respect to the trades named in Article II herein.
Article II - Trades
1.	Millwright
2.	Heavy Duty Mechanic
3.	Spriniderman-Pipefitter
4.	Machinist
5.	Electrician
6.	Welder/Steel Fabrication
7.	Carpenter
8.	Painter
9.	Filing Room Categories
(a)	Sawtitter
(b)	Circular Saw Filer (after Sawfitter)
(c)	Benchman (after Circular Saw Filer)
10.	Planermill Maintenance Technician
(a)	Technician II
(b)	Technician I (after Technician II)
4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 3 years
2 years
1 year
1	year
2	years
1 year
Listing of the above trades does not imply an obligation on the part of the Company to employ journeymen or apprentices.
Article III - General Principles
1.	Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Page 74
2.	Persons employed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesmen Qualification Exam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
3.	The period of Apprenticeship Training will be defined by the Apprenticeship Branch for each trade. The Apprentice will receive the Journeyman rate on successful completion of his Apprenticeship, on the understanding that he completes his full term of training. In the case of five-year Apprentices, Article VI 1
(e)	will apply. If the Apprentice refuses to continue his training, he will be removed from the program with no standing as a journeyman in his trade.
4.	Training syllabus for each trade to be designed to meet the requirements of the particular trade involved.
5.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in the Program.
6.	Under the Program, Apprentices will receive rates as per Supplement No. 1 of the Collective Agreement.
7.	Right to Continue:
Once started in the Program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he passes all of the prescribed tests and work is available to him.
8.	Training Time Entitlement:
Subject to the provisions herein, an employee who enters an Apprenticeship Training Program and who has had training in another Apprenticeship plan will be given recognition of such
Page 75
training. This is subject to any restrictions of the Apprenticeship Branch.
9.	On-the-Job Training:
The Company will ensure that the Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training.
10.	Vocational training will be conducted during day courses.
Textbooks and study material will be made available when required.
11.	There will be no age limit for applicants.
12.	Journeyman Qualifications:	Refer to SECTION XVII -
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM - 2.
13.	If, as a result of a Provincial Government requirement, an
employee who is awarded an Apprenticeship posting is required to take a pre-apprenticeship course prior to being allowed entry into the Apprenticeship Program, the Company will pay for the cost of the course and course materials and will meet with the Union in an effort to reach a mutually agreeable solution to any other matters that result from the requirement for the above pre-apprenticeship course.
Article IV - Joint Union - Management Apprenticeship Committee
1.	There will be a four (4) man committee established to process applicants to be tested under the Voluntary Tradesmen’s Qualification, or who become indentured under Apprenticeship and Tradesmen’s Qualification Act. The Committee will also recommend what vocational training is necessary for persons indentured as Apprentices.
Page 76
2.	This Committee will be comprised of an equal number of Union and Management representatives not to exceed in total two (2) from each group. The purpose of this Committee will be to develop and supervise the procedures required to carry out the intent of the program as agreed to.
The Committee will carry out the following duties:
(a)	Establish in-plant training programs to support the training syllabus as developed by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour for each trade involved. Supervision of the established Program shall be the responsibility of the Joint Committee.
(b)	Set standards for entry into the Apprenticeship Program that are not inconsistent with the standards recommended by the Apprenticeship Branch.
(c)	Carry out periodic review of the training program at intervals of not more than three (3) months.
(d)	See that the required practical tests are carried out in cooperation with the Apprenticeship Branch.
(e)	Joint Committee to review any case of lost time from the Program because of sickness, accident, etc. and to determine the amount of additional time necessary if any, before an employee meets his requirements of time served.
Article V - Schedule of Training for Apprentices
Upon completion of each period of training in a approved Vocational School, an Apprentice will be required to pass examinations set by the Apprenticeship Branch. These examinations shall be confined to the area of training received. In
Page 77
the event of failure to pass examinations, the Apprentice shall be required to undergo a period of retraining on subject material specified by the Apprenticeship Branch authorities and will be required to be re-examined within twelve (12) months. Failure to pass the second examination will result in his removal from the program. Employees who are removed from the program will go back to their last posted job in line with their seniority.
1.	(a) Successful applicants will be assigned to a specific trade as a
probationer for a sixty (60) working day period. “During the probationary period he shall receive a first year Apprenticeship rate”.
(b)	During each year of the Apprenticeship, he shall work at the trade and attend the Vocational School as required by the regulations pursuant to the Apprenticeship Act.
(c)	Upon the successful completion of his term of Apprenticeship and receipt of his Certificate of Apprenticeship, issued by the Apprenticeship Committee, the apprentice shall be designated as a certified Journeyman.
(d)	If any of the aforementioned work periods are exceeded due to the unavailability of Vocational School facilities, such extra time will be credited to apprentices in succeeding training requirements. Also, the apprentice’s rate shall be adjusted retroactively to the commencement of the scheduled year (anniversary of the job posting) providing he successfully passed the examination. Retroactivity will not apply where a retesting is necessary.
(e)	For trades exceeding four (4) years, the following shall be in addition to the above. On successful completion of the fourth period of training at the Vocational School, and having spent twelve (12) months as a fourth year Apprentice, he shall be
Page 78
reclassified and paid the fifth year Apprentice rate which is equivalent to the Journeyman rate for the following twelve (12) months. On completion of the final period at the Vocational school the fifth year Apprentice shall write his final examination set by the Apprenticeship Branch and, upon becoming certified, shall be designated as a certified Journeyman.
(f)	Wage rates for Apprentices shall be those specified in the Wage Supplement. An apprentice who passes his test and has completed his training requirement shall receive the appropriate increment specified in the Wage Supplement,
2.	Wherever reference is made to a year (or twelve months) as an Apprentice, it shall mean a period of not less than one thousand six hundred (1600) hours worked, the said period to include time spent at Vocational School.
Article VI - Textbooks
The Company will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the costs of textbooks specified by the Apprenticeship Branch. The Apprentice will keep these books as his personal property.
Article VII - Allowances for Wage Make-Up
1. While attending an approved Vocational School, the Apprentice will receive from the Government, allowances and school expenses in accordance with the Government’s schedule of grants pertaining to Apprenticeship training. In addition, the employee shall receive from his employer, an allowance comprised of the difference between his regular straight time rate, based on a forty (40) hour week, plus any weekly living allowance granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the Government grants received.
Page 79
Where as a result of the Apprenticeship School schedule starting after Monday or ending before Friday and reasonable transportation schedules prevent the Apprentice from working the day before school starts or the day after school ends, the Company will make up the Apprentice’s wages for such day on the basis of eight (8) hours at the Apprentice’s regular straight time rate. The application of this provision will not result in an employee being paid more than forty (40) straight time hours in any one (1) week, including Government grant. This provision will be for a maximum of one (1) day at the beginning, and one (1) day at the end of any one (1) school session.
Article VIII - On-The-Job Training
1.	The Company agrees to develop and provide a program of on-the-job training for each trade, which shall include doing jobs of gradually increasing skills consistent with the Apprentice’s, training and ability.
2.	On-The-Job Training - Filers
It is agreed that upon being awarded the position of saw titter the employees who wish to progress shall be trained up to and including the position of henchman without further postings.
When an employee is trained to the position of henchman he shall tit into the line of progression at the appropriate rate.
To accomplish this it is understood that the apprentice will have to perform the work of circular saw filer and/or henchman. Other filing room personnel will have to perform the apprentices’ normal duties without loss of pay.
Page 80
3. Out-Of-Town Expenses
On successful completion of the required period of vocational school training, the Company will reimburse out-of-town expenses to a maximum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per school day attended to apprentices who qualify for the government living-out allowance. The Company will reimburse out-of-town expenses to a maximum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per calendar day for apprentices required to attend vocational school beyond Prince George.
It will be paid after the employee’s return to work and when verification of vocational school attendance is received from the appropriate agency.
Article IX - Tools
1.	All journeyman tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for the journeymen rate unless they have, a lull kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the journeyman.
2.	Apprentices will be required to acquire and build a kit of tools progressively throughout the Program so that by the start of the third year, he shall have a basic tool kit for his trade. He shall continue the process of building up the necessary tools to equip himself on the job.
3.	(a) The Company shall, upon the signing of this Agreement, at
its expense, insure for damage or loss caused by fire or flood, the tools of its employees which are required to be used in the performance of their work.
(b) The Company shall, upon the signing of this Agreement, at its expense, insure the tools of its employees which are Page 81
required to be used in the performance of their work, for loss by theft where tools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of fitly dollars ($50.00) in respect of each employee’s claim.
(c)	It is the responsibility of each employee to provide the Company with a current list of all tools to be covered by (a) and (b) above. Only those tools that have been verified in advance of the loss or damage described in (a) and (b) above will be covered.
4.	The Company will repair or replace tools damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties.
5.	During introduction of the metric system, the Company will have those metric tools that are necessary available for use by tradesmen.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3 - EMPLOYEE ADVANCEMENT AND JOB GROUPING
SECTION A - INTRODUCTION
1.	Both parties recognize that it is the intent of the Agreement to have a procedure for the advancement of employees that is in accordance with Section VII - Seniority of the Labour Agreement and to have a system of job grouping and job rotation in related work units.
2.	The following will be considered departments for seniority purposes:
A Sawmill Department C Sawmill Department Page 82
Logyard Department Processing Department Maintenance Department
3.	(a) The department seniority date of each employee shall be his
Wood Products Seniority date and shall become effective upon accepting a posting within a particular department.
(b)	Where an employee is transferring from one department to another he shall establish his new department seniority date as in (a) above. Upon accepting the posting, he shall forfeit all seniority rights in his previous department for posting purposes. Upon accepting an incumbents position or a second training position he shall forfeit all seniority rights in his previous department. An employee may only hold department seniority in one (1) department at any one time. This department seniority will be based on the last posting that he has accepted.
(c)	Where an employee declines a relief position, withdraws
from training or is removed from training on his first posting with a particular department, he shall forfeit his seniority rights in that department. In the case of an employee transferring from one department to another, seniority rights in his original department will be regained.
4.	Definitions
Trainee: an individual who has been accepted on a posted training position or a job group training position.
Relief Operator: an individual who has been trained on a key job or a position in a job group but who has not filled a permanent vacancy.
Page 83
Incumbent: an individual who fills a permanent vacancy.
Job Group: a work unit of several related jobs.
Key Job: a job subject to job posting that is not included in a job group.
5.	The following jobs will not be covered by the posting and training procedures hereinafter described:
Clean Up Labourer Janitor
Conveyor Chaser
Patrolman Bins
Strip Piler
Strip Layer
Stacker Unscrambler
Log Pit Patrol
Sparkwatcher
SECTION B - POSTING PROCEDURES
1,	The following positions shall be posted on the bulletin boards for at least two (2) working days:
(a)	Key Job Trainee Vacancies
(b)	Group 1 and 2 Trainee Vacancies
(i)	or any Group Vacancy not filled with an employee with department seniority
(c)	Group 3 Incumbent Vacancies
(d)	Planer Group Incumbent Vacancies
Page 84
(e)	Journeyman Tradesman, Planerman Mechanics, Filing Room Categories
(f)	Apprenticeships
(g)	Planer Feeder
(h)	Graders
(i)	Current posted categories and non-posted will remain the same
2.	To make application, an employee must sign the posting notice at the Protection Services Office prior to the expiry date and time shown on the postings.
3.	An employee on vacation, absent on an approved leave of absence, illness, accident, or lay-off at the time of the Job Posting will be allowed to make application the day of his return or the following working day, but in no event later than fifteen (15) working days from the closing off time of such new job or vacancy.
4.	Notwithstanding 1 above, notices will remain posted for five (5) days to ensure they may be seen by workers on a compressed schedule. Such workers may make application at the Human Resources Department up to seventy-two (72) hours after the expiry date and time shown on the postings.
5.	Selection ofapplicants shall be based on Department Seniority first and Wood Products Seniority second, subject to Section VII -Seniority - 2 of the Labour Agreement, any ineligibilities and the following special agreements:
Page 85
(a) Grading Job Postings
(i)	Grading group vacancy will be filled first by the senior employees in the department with a valid grading ticket.
(ii)	Secondly, will be awarded to the senior Wood Products department employee holding a valid grading ticket.
(iii)	Third preference will be given to the senior employee
in the department who has taken the examination and attended at least fifty (50%) of the grading classes.
(iv)	Fourth preference will be given to the senior employee with Wood Products seniority who has taken the examination and attended at least fifty (50%) of the grading class.
(v)	If the vacancy has, not been filled by the above (a) (i) to (iv) then the vacancy will be awarded to the employee with the most department seniority first and Wood Products seniority second.
(vi)	An employee who is awarded a grading posting must
attain a grading ticket within two (2) classes. Failure to successfully attain a grading ticket within two (2) classes will result in forfeit of the grading posting.
(b)	Group 3 and Planer Group Incumbent Job Postings
The selection of applicants for all Group 3 Incumbent Job Postings and Planer Group Incumbent Job Postings shall be based on Wood Products Seniority, subject to Section VII -Seniority and any ineligibilities that apply to incumbencies.
(c)	Log Bundle Handling Positions
Trainees for log bundle handling postings (e.g. L330) must spend or have spent six (6) months performing grapple duties
Page 86
before any “on the job” log bundle handling training takes place.
6.	Future chargehand positions will be posted according to the applicable parts of Supplement No. 3. Selection will be based on aptitude testing, leadership and communications skills, knowledge of the sawmill process and an ability to effectively train and relate to other employees. Where two (2) or more applicants are of relatively equal ability the senior applicant will be selected.
7.	(a) The Company shall as early as possible, but not later than ten
(10) days from the closing off time of the posting, notify the successful applicant of his selection and post the original posting notice indicating who has been selected. It shall remain posted for not less than forty-eight (48) hours.
(b)	The names of applicants for posted jobs and the successful applicant will be forwarded to the Union.
8.	A posting shall remain current for fourteen (14) days. If a final award has not been made within this period, the position shall be reposted.
9.	The Company reserves the right to hire an employee to fill a vacancy when the job posting procedure does not produce a qualified applicant.
10.	The Company shall have up to thirty (30) days to select
apprentices.
11.	When the posting system does not provide a qualified applicant, the Company shall have the right to hire journeyman tradesmen.
12.	For the purpose of bidding, Flat Car Loaders shall be considered as being at the highest rate.
Page 87
13.	When an employee is declared a relief operator he shall not be permitted to decline the position for a period of six (6) months.
14.	When a job becomes vacant, the relief operator with the most
Department Seniority shall fill the vacancy.
15.	Any Job Postings that are declared “posted in error” must be
reviewed with the Standing Committee.
SECTION C - JOB GROUPS
1.	The parties agree to have job groups as outlined in the wage supplement. Entry into a posted job group will be according to Section B - Posting Procedure.
2.	Upon being awarded a training position in a job group, an employee may be required to relocate on an unposted job or job group, at his training rate, in order to provide relief in his new job group.
3.	Upon being awarded a group posting or a group vacancy, an employee will be trained to carry out the duties of one (1) job within the group. When time permits, the senior untrained relief operator will be trained on additional jobs in the group. The procedure for ensuring employees in a Job Group are competent on all jobs in the Job Group will be as follows:
(a)	An employee who has reached the expected level of
operating competence will be trained on a second job.
(b)	When the process described in (a) above is completed on a second job, he will commence training on a third. This procedure will be repeated for subsequent jobs until the employee has mastered all the jobs in his group.
Page 88
4.	When an employee advances into a job group he will be required to perform each job in his job group on a rotation basis and the rotation period shall be determined by the employees affected, subject to the agreement of their foreman. Job rotation will not take place when all the employees in the group do not wish to rotate, but the employees will be paid the rate as if rotating. Skill levels as per 6. must be maintained.
5.	Once an employee participates in job rotation, he may only withdraw from the rotation with a valid medical or similar reason, His rate will then be determined by Section C - Job Groups.
6.	When an employee has been trained for and is competent to perform in one (1) job category in the group, he will be paid the minimum rate for the group. When he has been trained and is competent to perform in another category in the group and in fact is performing that job, he will be paid the next highest rate in his group and so on for each additional job category in his group. When he has been trained for and is competent to perform all the jobs in the group, he shall he paid the maximum rate in his group.
7.	If an employee has been declared incompetent on any two (2) jobs in a job group, he will be required to withdraw from that job group and return to his former job or group. (NOTE: see ineligibilities that apply). When a job group exists where there is only two (2) jobs in the group, the operator must be competent on both jobs.
8.	On the inception date of Job Groups, all employees in jobs which are part of job group will be required to declare themselves a participant in rotation or not. Employees who do not elect to participate will be red circled on their present job. They may, however, elect to participate in the future.
9.	The parties agree that the rates set out will be paid only as long as the system of job groups and job rotation is in effect. The existing
Page 89
wage scale will be preserved in the event that the Parties wish to revert from the job group system at some future time. This wage scale forms Supplement No. 5 to the 1974 Labour Agreement.
SECTION D - TRAINING
1.	Payment for training time will be the lowest rate of the following:
(a)	His present rate
(b)	The Job Group Minimum
(o) The rate of the new job if a key job
2.	The Company will arrange for training to commence within thirty (30) days of an employee being awarded a posting. Exceptions will be reviewed with the Union at Standing Committee.
3.	The Company shall determine whether or not an individual who is training can successfully qualify as competent on the job for which he is being trained. If an individual who is training is required an excessive amount of time to train or owing to lack of skills or understanding impedes production or endangers equipment, he may be removed at any time during training
4.	If an individual who is training is declared incompetent and is removed from a training position he may invoke his rights under Section XIII - Grievance Procedure (i) of the Labour Agreement.
5.	The Company shall have the right to determine the number of trainees required.
6.	The Company shall select a qualified person to provide the training with due regard to his ability to communicate effectively.
Page 90
SECTION E - INELIGIBILITY
1.	The intent of Job Posting and Job Training is to identify and prepare employees for advancement. (An employee who is an incumbent must post up from that incumbency. Employees who do not hold an incumbents position must post up from the rate normally received excluding relief and trainee positions). Therefore, no employee may post to a job at an equal or lower maximum except where:
(a)	He must do so to change departments.
(b)	He has an approved medical reason.
(c)	He has been on his last incumbent job for more than one (1) year.
2.	No employee shall be permitted to hold more than two (2) training positions at the same time, and where two training positions are held they must be in the same department. No employee shall be permitted to hold more than two (2) training positions within a twelve (12) month period.
3.	An employee will not be eligible for another posting for sixty (60) days after being awarded a posting.
4.	If a trainee or relief operator declines or withdraws from a training position or relief position, he will be ineligible to bid on any posting for sixty (60) days.
5.	If an employee has been declared incompetent and is removed from a key job, job group, relief operator or trainee position:
(a) He can no longer bid for that trainee position for a period of twelve (12) months.
Page 91
(b)	No ineligible period shall apply.
(c)	He will have only one (1) additional opportunity to
successfully train for this job or job group.
6.	An employee who declines a training position after accepting the posting may not repost for that position for a period of twelve (12) months.
From July 1st, 1988 he will have only one (1) additional opportunity to successfully train for this job or job group.
This clause is for posting purposes only and shall not restrict an employee’s rights under Section VII - Seniority or Section XVIII -Job Elimination & Technology Change.
7.	Apprenticeship job postings shall not be open to bidding by apprentices. Similarly, no apprentice may withdraw from an apprenticeship in order to bid on another apprenticeship vacancy. The foregoing is only intended to restrict an apprentice’s bidding rights, not his right to withdraw during the probationary period.
8.	Ineligibilities will be waived on all apprenticeship postings. SECTION F - SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
1. Weighmaster
The Weighmaster position is recognized as part of the Logyard Department and as such any employee with a Weighmaster posting will gain Logyard Department seniority.
Page 92
SUPPLEMENT NO. 4 - PENSION PLAN
For the term ofthis agreement Pension Benefits will be as follows:
Pension benefits for active and retired participants who retire or have retired on pension directly from the bargaining unit under the PPWC Wood Products Pension Plan, will be as follows:
(a) Effective July 1, 2000, the Future Service Benefit will be increased from $42.50 per month, per year of service to $52.50 per month, per year of service based on increased Company contributions.
(b)	Effective July 1, 2000, an employee contribution of
$0.25/hour will be made in order to fund an additional Future Service Benefit increase of $10.00 per month, per year of service. This employee contribution rate will be reviewed at the termination of this contract and it will be adjusted so that the contribution fully funds the $10.00 Future Service Benefit Improvement that it represents.
(c)	In the event that during the term of the 2000-2003 Collective Agreement the solid wood sector pension trustees agree to enhance the current solid wood sector pension benefit, Slocan Croup — Mackenzie Operations will, on July 1, 2003 improve the PPWC Mackenzie Wood Products Pension Plan Benefit to an amount equivalent to that increase to the solid wood sector members which is above their $10.00 benefit improvement proposed to be given on January 1, 2001.
Page 93
For further clarification:
(d)	The Pension Plan will be modified to provide for a “pop-up” option based on the following (Trustees to implement):
If the contingent annuitant under a joint and last survivor pension should predecease the pensioner before ten (10) years of pension payments have been made, the pensioner’s monthly pension shall hereafter be increased effective on the first day of the month after the contingent annuitant’s death, by a percentage of the difference between the pension paid before the death and the pension that would have been paid on the single life annuity basis for the pensioner alone before reduction by the joint and last survivor option. The percentage will be 1/120 of one hundred percent (100%) for each month remaining in the said ten (10) years.
(e)	The Pension Plan will be modified effective July 1st, 1984 to provide that the credited hours requirement of the Pension Plan text be reduced from one thousand six hundred (1600) hours to one thousand five hundred (1500) hours. Hours on which contributions are made in excess of one thousand five hundred (1500) hours in any plan year may be applied in future years if required in order to qualify for a full year’s pension credit.
(f)	The Company is prepared to agree to the following and to direct its Trustees to amend the Pension Plan text to provide the following, effective July lrt, 1983.
Page 94
The following optional forms of Pension:
(a)	Life only
(b)	Life pension guaranteed - five (5) years
(c)	Life pension guaranteed - ten (IO) years
(d)	Life pension guaranteed - fifteen (15) years
(e)	Joint and Last Survivorship
(i)	full continuance after death
(ii)	2/3 continuance after death
(iii)	1/2 continuance after death
(f)	Or any other option as agreed to by the Trustees.
2.	Where the pre-retirement Joint and Survivor coverage is not currently in effect in respect of a Pension Plan Member, and where such individual dies before retirement, his surviving spouse or dependent children will receive a benefit under the Plan equal to one-half of his accrued pension, to be paid for five (5) years. The qualification conditions for this benefit shall be both the completion of a minimum of ten (10) years’ credited service and the attainment of age fifty-five (55).
3.	Hours while on Weekly Indemnity and W.C.B. will be credited at forty (40) hours per week until the required hours for the plan year are met.
4.	If an employee is permanently and totally disabled, and has a vested right to a pension he may elect to:
Page 95
-	Commence his pension following expiry of Weekly
Indemnity of Long Term Disability benefits, or W.C.B. “time loss” benefits: OR
-	Postpone the pension until any time up to age sixty-five (65). If postponed the employee will continue to earn pension credits as though working.
5.	If the employee’s pension commences before age sixty-five (65), any one of the options or regular type pension may be increased for the months before age sixty-five (65) and decrease after age sixty-five (65) when the Government pension starts.
6.	Employees may apply up to two hundred (200) hours of layoff time toward qualifying for the plan year.
7.	The Company agrees to provide that employees with vested pensions who terminate, and are subsequently employed within the B.C. Pulp and Paper Industry, or at any operation of Slocan Forest Products Limited within the province of British Columbia or Alberta and who do not suffer a break in service, as defined in the plan text, during the course of their future employment specified above will be credited with future benefits at the plan level at the time of termination or retirement. Former employees who are covered by this provision and retire without a break in service directly from the bargaining unit of an operation within the B.C. Pulp and Paper Industry of any operation of Slocan Forest Products Limited will be treated the same as a plan member who retires from this bargaining unit in regard to any future negotiated benefit improvements.
Page 96
8.	Employees are eligible to receive a pension if they:
are at least age fifty-five (55) with at least four (4) years of credited service,
- at least age sixty (60) regardless of service.
Early Retirement
Effective July V, 1988, pension benefits to be paid to plan members who elect early retirement from active employment, will be determined by applying the appropriate factor outlined in the following scale to the plan members accrued benefit at the date of his early retirement commences:
(i) Bridging
For the term of the 2000-2003 Collective Agreement, there will be available a Term Annuity Benefit which will be funded by the plan. This benefit will be available to those employees who request it and who choose to retire early from active employment commencing at age sixty-one (61) and up to but not including age sixty-five (65). The benefit payable under this provision will be fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month per year of service and credited on the same basis as under the terms and conditions of the PPWC
OR
Age
Age
Age
Age
Age
Age
82% of accrued benefit 86% of accrued benefit 90% of accrued benefit 94% of accrued benefit 97% of accrued benefit 100% of accrued benefit
Page 97
Mackenzie Wcxl Products Pension Plan. Payments under this provision will cease at the end of the month immediately preceding the month in which the employee who selects to retire early under this provision attains age sixty-five (65) or dies, whichever occurs first.
Payments under this provision will cease at the end of the month immediately preceding the month in which the employee who selects to retire early under this provision attains age 65 (sixty-five) or dies, whichever occurs fist.
9.	Employees who for reason of layoff did not accumulate the required one thousand six hundred (1600) hours to qualify for a full years pension credit will be granted the hours required to qualify for a full years pension credit. This will apply for the years 1981, 1982 and 1983.
10.	An eligible employee shall attain a vested right upon completion of four (4) full years of continuous service except that a former plan member who ceased employment before January 1st, 1982 shall be entitled to a vested right only if his full years of age added to his full years of continuous employment totaled forty (40) and he had at least four (4) full years of continuous employment when he ceased employment.
H. The Company agrees that the trustees should investigate the rules applying to credited hours and hours on which contributions are made of both the Pulp and Paper Industry Pension Plan and the Forest Industry Pension Plan and apply those rules if agreed to the administration of the Pension Plan.
Page 98
12.	The Company agrees that the Break in Service provision of the Pension Plan will be the same as that which applies in the Pulp and Paper Industry Pension Plan.
13.	The Company agrees that the Trustees should review the
performance of the current actuary and seek competitive bids from up to four Actuarial Firms which may include the present actuary prior to confirmation of an actuary for the next plan year. If either the Union or Company Trustees are in favour, a second actuarial opinion may be sought.
14.	The Company agrees that the Trustees should consider and
investigate entering into a reciprocal agreement regarding portability with the Pulp and Paper Industry Pension Plan and with the Forest Industry Pension Plan. If the Trustees are in favour of such an arrangement an approach may be made to the two other Industry Plans to seek their approval.
15.	Re: Portability between the Sloc&n Forest Products Limited/Local 18 Pension Plan and the Pulp and Paper Industry Pension Plan.
The Company and Union agree to authorize the Trustees of the Pension Plan to have the Pension Plan actuary develop an arrangement for vesting purposes between the Pension Plan and the Pulp and Paper Industry Pension Plan which will permit service in both plans to count for vesting.
No money would change hands between the plans. The Pension Plan actuary would be charged with recommending to the Trustees appropriate administrative procedures.
16.	A pre-retirement counseling program will be implemented by the Company.
17.	Effective July 1, 1988 the Company will cover the costs of
providing Medical and Extended Health Benefits for Retirees.
Page 99
18.	Upon the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement the Company and Union will seek proposals from local financial institutions who will offer an RRSP Savings Plan by payroll deduction. Those employees on direct payroll deposit will be eligible for this program.
19.	Pension functions held other than in the Province of British Columbia will be the responsibility of the Company and the Union to pay their own cost of attending.
20.	A pre-retirement death benefit equal to sixty percent (60%) of commuted value of accrued deferred pensions to members who die before attaining age fifty-five (55) (or after age fifty-five (55) with less than four (4) years credited service), which will apply to active, pending terminations and disabled members in respect of all service.
In addition the PPWC Mackenzie Wood Products Pension Plan will provide an automatic Joint and Last Survivor benefit to vested members aged fifty-five (55) and older. This amounts to a pension oftwo-thirds (2/3) of the reduced pension that would be paid to the member had he retired. Such pension is paid to the elected survivor. This provision will remain unchanged. It is not paid in addition to the pre-retirement death benefit outlined in the paragraph above.
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Coveralls
1.	The Company will supply Tradesmen, Filers, Planermen, Oilers, and Full-Time Sparkwatchers with coveralls as follows:
(a)	Heavy Duty Mechanics - four (4) pair/year
Page 100
(b)	Millwrights, Planermen, Oilers, Welders, Painters -three (3) pair/year
(c)	Electricians, Filers, Sprinklertitters, Full-Time Sparkwatchers -two (2) pair/year
Coveralls will be replaced when worn out, but, except where unusual circumstances exist, not more than once per year.
2.	All coverall issues will require the approval of the supervisor. Coveralls will be signed for.
3.	The Company will pay for minor repairs and cleanings.
4.	A supply of coveralls will be kept in the various mill departments and issued to employees when required for unusually dirty jobs.
Re: Welding Ticket Renewal
As a result of changes in Welder’s ticket qualification, the ticket requirement for Journeymen Welders will be an “A” ticket plus the ability to qualify for an FI 101 or FI 102 ticket, Welders who are on the Company’s payroll as of June 21st, 1984 and who are receiving the Journeyman Welder’s rate will continue to receive the Journeyman rate while employed as Welders, at Slocan Group - Mackenzie Operations.
When a Welder is required or wishes to upgrade and is unable to do so on site, the Company will grant him up to two (2) days to take the necessary exam. When the exam cannot be taken on site and the welder must travel to Prince George, the Company will pay up to fifty dollars ($50.00)/day for expanses for a maximum of two (2) days. Lost wages at eight (8) hours/day at his regular straight time rate.
Page 101
Re; Minimum Guarantee - Call Time
1.	If an employee works Monday to Friday, has worked forty (40) hours, and is called in on Saturday, the employee is entitled to the greater of four (4) hours at straight time or time and a half for all hours worked.
For example:
(a)	If an employee works only fifteen (15) minutes when called in he is entitled to four (4) hours of straight time pay.
(b)	If an employee works three (3) hours he is entitled to four and one-half (4 Vz) hours of straight time pay.
2.	If an employee works Monday to Friday or Tuesday to Saturday and has completed forty (40) hours of work and is called in on Sunday, the employee is entitled to the greater of four (4) hours at straight time or double time for all hours worked.
For example:
(a)	If an employee works only fifteen (15) minutes on Sunday he is entitled to four (4) hours of straight time pay.
(b)	If an employee works two (2) hours he would be entitled to four (4) hours of straight time pay.
(c)	If an employee works three (3) hours he would receive six (6) hours of straight time pay.
3.	For the purpose of calculating the minimum guarantee, it will be defined as being called in from off of the site. However, if someone has to come in to make a kiln change on a Sunday, the
Page 102
minimum guarantee of four (4) hours of straight time pay will apply, even if it has been arranged previously.
Re: Rehiring
When hiring new employees, preference will be given to laid off former
employees of the Company in order of their previous Wood Products
seniority, providing:
1.	Their recall rights under SECTION VII - SENIORITY (6) have expired;
2.	They have a current application on tile;
3.	They have the qualifications and the ability to perform the work
properly;
4.	They can be contacted at the location indicated on their current application and are available to report to work as required by the Company within a reasonable period of time. Applications must be made within thirty (30) days of the expiry of recall rights and will remain in effect for three (3) months unless renewed in person or in writing. A former employee will no longer have preference if he fails to accept an offered position. The Company will consider extenuating circumstances. Those hired under this Letter of Understanding will be new employees
Re; Car Wash Tickets
Car wash tickets will be issued to every regular employee on the following basis:
1.	Ist regular pay period of the month — one (1) ticket
2.	2nd regular pay period of the month -two (2) tickets
Page 103
This will only happen during the winter months while the Company car wash is inoperative.
Tickets will only be issued to those employees who worked during the pay period and will not be redeemed for cash. Tickets will be valid until October 1st following the winter in which they were issued.
New tickets will be issued one (1) month prior to the expiry of the old.
Re: Pre-Apprenticeship Leave of Absence
The Parties agree that where an employee qualifies for Leave of Absence under SECTION VIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE 3 (d) the Company will extend the Leave of Absence up to a total of ten (10) months where the employee is taking pre-apprenticeship course under the auspices of the British Columbia Apprenticeship Branch subject to the following:
1.	The Leave of Absence will not extend for more than the length of the course.
2.	The course material must be in a trade identified in
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2.
3.	The employee must have successfully passed the selection tests as outlined in SUPPLEMENT NO. 2.
Re: Air Tickets
If air tickets are required by employees in order that they may qualify to operate mobile equipment, the Company will make every effort to ensure that Air Ticket courses are available in Mackenzie so that the above employees can qualify to operate the equipment. Appropriate paid leave of absence will be granted to employees required to take the exam
Page 104
during working hours. Failure to hold a valid Air Ticket will not prevent
an employee from being awarded a mobile equipment posting.
Re: Contracting
1.	The Company will not contract out work that would result in the lay off or termination of any regular maintenance department employee.
2.	The Company is committed to retaining as employees a maintenance workforce consistent with providing normal maintenance of plants and equipment.
3.	The Company agrees to recognize the Local’s Contracting Out Committee and to provide it with reasonable notice of the Company’s intent to have contractors on site. While it is understood that only limited notice may be possible for repair work, a minimum of fourteen (14) days notice will be given on project work.
Re: Production Positions
1.	The purpose of this section is to provide protection for production positions as outlined below. This section is not intended to affect current and past arrangements where the Company has employed contractors.
2.	The Company agrees not to introduce contractors which would result in the loss of positions held by employees.
3.	The Parties agree that there may be reasonable exceptions to clause two (2) above. Such cases will be reviewed with the Union where practical at least one (1) month prior to implementation.
Page 105
If agreement is not reached the action will be subject to review by an umpire at the request of the Union.
In making his decision the umpire should weigh economic and/or operating benefits to the Company against the impact of the change on the bargaining unit and affected employees.
4.	The Company agrees not to make repetitive use of the exception language in order, over the course of time, to convert an employee work force into a contractor work force.
5.	The umpire will be selected by mutual agreement within sixty (60) days of the ratification of the Agreement. If the Parties fail to agree within the above time they will request the Minister of Labour to appoint the umpire.
Re; Trades Guidelines and Demarcation
The Company and the Union recognize the principle of tradelines and
job demarcation as practiced in the mills prior to July 1, 1986 for the
purposes of interpreting the Trades Flexibility Section outlined below.
Trades Flexibility
1.	Tradesmen may be assigned work in other than their own trade under the guidance of a qualified hourly tradesman in the trade in which the work is being performed.
2.	Tradesmen may be assigned work in trades other than their own consistent with the tradesman’s ability, keeping safety factors in mind.
3.	Tradesmen may be required to take on-site training for duties that are normally performed by other trades.
Page 106
(a)	The objective is to provide training to develop skills so that trades people can assist in other trades and not to eliminate other trades or tradesmen,
(b)	Apprenticeships will Be distributed as stipulated otherwise in the Contract.
4.	The traditional division of work between production and maintenance is not altered by the above agreement. Employees of either department will not be assigned work that would have the effect of displacing employees of the other department.
It is understood that there must be cooperation between maintenance and production to further the efficient operation of the mills. Production employees may be assigned to assist tradesmen as labourers and maintenance personnel may run production equipment for maintenance purposes.
Re: Trades Attrition
The parties recognize that with the implementation of Trades Flexibility in the mills the opportunity to reduce the crew complement in the Maintenance Department will exist.
The Company therefore agrees that any crew reductions in the Maintenance Department resulting from the implementation and utilization of Trades Flexibility will be accomplished by attrition and that no Maintenance Department Employee will lose his job in the Maintenance Department as a result of the above.
For the term of the agreement, the Company shall employ all reasonable means to maintain a minimum Maintenance work force of ninety-five (95) tradesmen and apprentices. This shall include no less than thirteen (13) electrical personnel, forty-two (42) in millwrighting and/or welding,
Page 107
six (6) mechanics, four (4) carpenters and/or painters, three (3) in sprinkler fitting and twenty (20) in saw filing.
This shall not limit the right of the Company to reduce maintenance department crews in conjunction with any other department(s) curtailments or cutbacks or to dismiss for cause.
It is understood that if maintenance department crews are reduced as a result of any other departments curtailment or cutback, when and if that department returns to its former level of operation those maintenance department employees affected by the curtailment or cutback will be returned to the maintenance department complement.
The parties agree that the closure of‘B’ Mill will result in a reduction of the maintenance work force by one-third (1/3). Specifically: total trades complement will be reduced from ninety-five (95) to sixty-three (63). This reduction is reflected throughout all listed trades.
Amended March 17th, 1993
Temporary Summer Students
Students hired for temporary vacation relief in the plant will only appear on plant seniority lists as a separate entry entitled, vacation relief-Students.
If during the students term of employment as a vacation relief he applies for permanent employment, his application must be directed personally to the Human Resources Department.
Such applicants will be considered for permanent work providing they meet normal mill standards of entry.
Page 108
Upon satisfactory meeting of entrance standards, the applicant will be placed in job openings as they arise and will only begin to acquire plant seniority upon commencement of permanent work.
Re: Company Reports and Lists
The Company will provide the following reports and lists to the Union:
1.	Attendance/Absenteeism Report
2.	Job Posting Report	(Scribble Sheet)
3.	Overtime Report
4.	Seniority Report
5.	Vacation Taken Report
These reports should be provided to the Union quarterly or as frequently as they are normally produced.
Expires: June 30, 2003
Re: Vacation Pay
All employees will have their regular hourly wage rate paid through the regular payroll system for any time taken as vacation except for those employees who elect to take a lump sum payment of all vacation earning accruals. All remaining vacation earning accruals will be paid the first pay period following May 31st.
Expires: June 30, 2002
Page 109
Re: Removal of Discipline
An employee’s discipline record will be considered “clean” if he/she has no discipline for two (2) consecutive years of service. For the purposes of the above statement, the employee’s discipline record will remain intact however the historical discipline record will not be used as part of progressive discipline for future incidents of misconduct.
Exceptions to this clause will include any incidents of serious misconduct (theft, harassment, intoxication due to drugs or alcohol at work, assault or threats of assault, or gross insubordination).
Expires: June 30, 2003
Re: Equalization of Overtime
The Company will endeavor to provide equal opportunity to overtime for all employees. Employees will be called in to work overtime hours baaed on the following principles:
1.	Overtime hours will be balanced semi-annually (June & December) to the effect that employees in the same job will have the opportunity to work approximately the same number of hours of overtime.
2.	Opportunities to work overtime will consider first the employees scheduled to the position, second a trained posted employee, and third an employee who has previously been trained. Employees who transfer from one job to another will be considered to have the average overtime accrual of all employees in that position.
3.	For the purpose of calculating overtime hours accrued, all overtime worked will be calculated at straight time hours and all overtime opportunities where the employee was not available or where the employee refused the shift will be included.
Page 110
4.	Weekend overtime shift schedules will be made up from a voluntary sign-up sheet. Only those employees who sign that sheet will be selected for weekend overtime shifts.
5.	Employees who do not wish to be called for overtime must complete a form to that effect.
Expires: June 30, 2003
Education Trust Fund
The parties agree to establish a Fund based on the following parameters:
1.	The fund to be structured so as to comply with all requirements of a trust as specified by Revenue Canada.
2.	The Company will contribute to the Fund and will continue such contributions throughout the period of the Collective Agreement. The contributions will be one cent ($.01) per hour worked per employee effective January 1, 1998; two cents ($.02) per hour worked per employee effective January 1, 1999; and three cents ($.03) per hour worked per employee effective January 1, 2000.
3.	The Funds will be directed to the Education Trust Fund by the Company.
4.	The Education Program Fund will be jointly directed and managed by a committee of two representatives from the company and two representatives from the union as appointed by the Company and PPWC Local 18.
Page 111
5.	The fund will provide funding for the purpose as defined by the following:
Education Fund Policy Statement
The strength of the PPWC Local 18 relies on the continued commitment of the membership to effect positive change. There is an increasing need for our leaders and membership to understand and respond to emerging issues affecting the Forest Industry and/or our membership. We need to renew and build upon the historic principles of the PPWC Local 18 through a comprehensive education program which will enrich union membership and enhance the objectives of the PPWC Local 18 as a proud and progressive union,
To this end, the Trustees will develop and deliver a wide range of programs which may include:
Grievance Handling Collective Bargaining Environmental Issues Land Use Issues	Stewards Training	Communications Skills
Leadership Training Economic Issues	Benefits Training
Health and Safety	Union History	Parliamentary Procedure
Public Speaking
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Fund will be used to develop and deliver programs, and to pay for administrative costs, time lost from work to attend education and training, travel, accommodations and such other reasonable costs as the Trustees determine appropriate regarding the operations and administration of the Fund.
Page 112