LABOUR AGREEMENT
between
FLETCHER CHALLENGE CANADA LIMITED MACKENZIE WOOD PRODUCTS
and
PULP, PAPER AND WOODWORKERS OF CANADA
LOCAL 18
Effective July 1 st, 1991
1991 - 1994 THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 1st day of July 1991 between
FLETCHER CHALLENGE CANADA LIMITED MACKENZIE WOOD PRODUCTS (hereinafter known as the ‘Company”) OF THE FIRST PART and
PULP, PAPER AND WOODWORKERS OF CANADA LOCAL 18
(hereinafter known as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
INDEX
SEC'l	ion i - purpose or agreement	7
SEC’l	ION II - RECOGNITION	9
1.	Recognition	9
2	Definition of Employee	9
3.	Cooperation	9
4.	Union Shop	9
5.	Discharge of Non-Members	10
6.	Application for Membership	10
7.	Assignment of Wages	10
8.	Effective Dale of Assignment	11
y.	Remittance of Dues	II
10.	1 )elinition of Supervisor	11
SEC’l	ION III - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	12
SEC’l	ION IV - WAGES	12
1.	Wage Scale	12
2.	Piecework	12
3.	Shift differential	12
4.	New or ('hanged Jobs	13
Slid	ION V - PAY DAYS	13
SEC’l	ION VI - HOURS OE WORK AND OVERTIME	13
1.	Production Employees	13
	Maintenance Employees	14
3.	Three-Shift Operation	13
4.	Alternate Shift Schedule - Production	16
5.	10 Hour Maintenance Schedule	17
6.	Alternate Shift Schedule - Maintenance	19
7.	General	20
8.	Failure to Provide Work	21
y.	Casual Worker	22
10.	Liability for Reporting Pay	22
n.	Meals	23
SEC'l	ION VII-SENIORITY	24
1.	Probationary Period	24
	Principle	24
3.	Reduction of Forces	25
4.	Recall	27
5.	Seniority lasts	28
6.	Seniority Retention	29
7.	Training	29
SECTION VIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
1.	Written Permission
2.	Injury or Illness
3.	General
4.	Jury or Witness Duly
5.	Bereavement Leave
6.	Seniority
7.	Maternity Leave
SECTION IX - VACATION WITH PAY SUB-SECTION A
1.	One to Two Years’s Service
2.	Two to Seven Years’ Service
3.	Seven to Fifteen Years’ Service
4.	Fifteen to Twenty-four Years’ Service
5.	Twenty-four to Thirty Years’ Service
6.	Thirty Years’ Service and Ovci SUB-SECTION B
1.	Vacation Time
SECTION X - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
1.	Pay for Holidays
2.	Qualifying Conditions
3.	Arrangements for Change
4.	Personal Floating Holidays SECTION XI - SAFETY AND HEALTH
I Cooperation
2.	Accident Prevention Committee
3.	Committee Meetings
4.	Pay for Meeting
3.	Protective Equipment and Clothing SECTION XII - STANDING COMMITTEE SECTION XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
1.	Grievance Procedure
2.	Class Grievance Procedure
3.	Arbitration Procedure
SECTION XIV - GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	Access to Company Property
2.	Strikes or Lockouts
3.	Bulletin Boards
4.	Benefit Coverage
30
30
30
32
34
35
36
36
37
37
37
37
38
38
39
39
39
39
43
43
44
45
46
47
47
48
48
48
49
50
51
51
52
54
56
56
56
56
57
SECTION XV - HEALTH AND WELFARE PLAN	58
1.	Institution	58
2.	Hoard of Trustees	58
3.	Umpire	58
4.	Insurance Coverage	59
5.	Temporary Supervisory Coverage	68
6.	Single Enrollment	68
7.	Lire Lighting Insurance	68
8.	Change in Beneiits	69
9.	Surviving Spouse and Dependent Coverage	69
SECTION Xvf- PENSION PLAN	70
1.	Board of Trustees	70
2.	Beneiits	71
3.	I''uncling	71
SECTION XVII - APPRENTICE TRAINING PROGRAM 71 SECTION SVIII - JOB SECURITY	72
1.	Objective	72
2.	Definition	72
3.	Required Noliec	73
4.	Seniority Status	73
5.	SeveraneeAUowanec	74
6.	Training	75
SECTION XIX - JOB ELIMINATION	76
!.	Definition	76
2.	Exclusion	76
3.	Notice	76
4.	Elimination Options	76
5.	Severance Allowance	75
SECTION XX - DURATION OF AGREEMENT	78
SUPPLEMENT No. I	81
A -	Mill Department	81
B -	Mill Department	83
C -	Mill Department	85
Log Yard	87
PlanermaiTs Department	88
Shipping Department	88
Maintenance Department	89
Wood Products - Non Department	90
First Aid Ticket Premium	91
Grading Ticket Premium	91
SUPPLEMENT No. 2 - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM	93
Article I Purpose	93
Article II - Trades	93
Article III General Principles	94
Article IV Joint Union Management
Apprenticeship Committee	96
Article V - Entry into the Program New Apprentices	97
Article VI Schedule of Training for Apprentices	99
Article VIII Textbooks	101
Article VIII Allowances and Wage Make up	102
Article XI On The Job Training	102
Article X Tools	104
SUPPLEMENT No, 3 EMPLOYEE ADVANCEMENT AND JOB GROUPING	I Oh
Section A Introduction	106
Section B Posting Procedures	I ox
Section C Job Groups	112
Section D Training	115
Section E Ineligiblity	116
Section 1*’ Special Agreements	118
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING	119
RE: Logyard Department Dewatering	119
RE: Transportation	120
RE: Paydays	121
RE: Planermcn	121
RE: Coveralls	124
RE: Welding Ticket Renewal	125
RE: Minimum Guarantee - Call Time	125
RE: Rehiring	127
RE Car Wash Tickets	128
RE: Credit Time for Apprentices	128
RE: Employee Assistance Committee	129
RE: Pre-Apprenticeship Leave of Absence	129
RE: Air Tickets	130
RE: Contracting	130
RE: Production Positions	131
RE: Trade Guidelines and Demarcation	132
RE: Trades Attrition	133
RE: Temporary Summer Students	135
RE: Alternate Three (3) Day Shift Schedule	135
SUPPLEMENT 4 - PENSION PLAN	136
SECTION I - PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company, the Union and the employees the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining, and to ensure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output, and protection of properly. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company and the Union and the employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of said conditions.
The Company and the Union agree to abide by the terms set out in this Agreement. The Union further agrees that it will at all times instruct its members to act in accordance with the terms contained in this Agreement. The Company agrees, in the exercise of the functions of Management, that the provisions of this Agreement will be carried out.
The Company and Union subscribe to and support the principles of the Human Rights Code of British Columbia, Section 8 of which read as follows:
I Every person has the right to quality of opportunity based upon bona fide qualifications in respect to his occupation or employment, or in respect ol an intended occupation, employment, advancement, or promotion; and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing.
a.	No employer shall refuse to employ, to con-
tinue to employ, or to advance or promote that person, or discriminate against that person in respect of employment or condition of employment; anti
b.	No employment agency shall refuse to rcfei him for employment, unless reasonable cause exists for such refusal or discrimination.
2.	For the purpose of Subsection (I),
the race, religion, colour, age, marital status, ancestry, place of origin, or political belief’ oi any person or class of persons shall not constitute reasonable cause;
a.	(1) a provision respecting Canadian citizen-
ship in any Act constitutes reasonable cause (1974, Bill 178, s.6)
b.	the sex of any person shall not constitute reasonable cause unless it relates to the maintenance of public decency.
c.	a conviction for a criminal or summary cow viction charge shall not constitute reasonable cause unless such charge relates to the occupation or employment, or to the intended occupation, employment, advancement, or promotion, of a person.
3.	No provision of this section relating to age shall prohibit the operation of any term of a bona fide retirement, superannuation, or pension plan, oi
8
the terms or conditions of any bona tide group 01 employee insurance plan, or of any bona fide scheme based upon seniority.
SECTION II - RECOGNITION
1.	The Company recognizes laical IS, Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers of Canada, as the only bargaining agent representing all employees as defined in this Agreement.
2.	The term “Employee” as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Company on whose behalf the Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers of Canada, Local IS, has been certified as bargaining agent except and excluding foremen and others having authority to hire and discharge, office workers, supervisory officials and salesmen.
3.	The Company will co-operate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present lo new employees, and to all Supervisors and Foremen, the Policy herein expressed.
The Company will include in its New Employee Induction Program a copy of P.PW.C. Local 18 Bylaws and the Introduction of New Employees to a Shop Steward.
4.	All employees in Ihc employment of the ^ Company, and all new employees, shall within /f\Jthirty (30) calendar days after the execution ol * this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days aftei entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
5.	Any employee who fails to maintain his membership in good standing in the Union by reason of failure to pay dues or assessments shall be discharged after seven (7) days written notice to the company by the Union of the employee’s failure to maintain his membership in good standing.
6.	(a) No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers of Canada National Constitution and in accordance with the Bylaws of Local IX.
(b)	Any employee who applies for membership pursuant to the provisions of 6(a) above, will not have his application rejected.
7. The Company shall require all new employees, at ^ the time of hiring to execute an assignment of
wages for union dues in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union, and will forward one copy to the Union within fifteen (15) days of execution.
10
8.	This assignment in the ease of employees already members of the Union, shall be effective immediately and for those employees not previously members of the Union, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execu-lion.
9.	The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked in writing by the employee) to the Local Union named therein not less often than once each month, with a written statement of names of employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
IO.	The Union and the Company recognize that supervisors are excluded from the provisions ol the Labour Agreement and accordingly it is improper for supervisors normally to do the work which is done by those defined as employees in the Agreement.
It is also recognized that for the practical and efficient operation of the mills there are occasions when a supervisor must help. Such occasions must be temporary in nature and must not result in the displacement or exclusion of employees under the Agreement.
II
SECTION III - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
1.	The management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the Employees arc vested exclusively in the management provided, however, that this will not be used for the purpose ol discrimination against employees, and is in accordance with the principles outlined in SECTIONS 1 and VII of this Agreement.
2.	The Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline them or discharge them for proper cause.
SECTION IV - WAGES
1.	The wage scale for the term of this Agreement is attached as Supplement No. 1 to this agreement.
2.	It is agreed that employees engaged on contract or
piecework shall not receive less money than the equivalent of the hourly rate specified in the wage schedule for the number of hours worked in each day. ■•/ '/	/,., c/ £7- V/
3.	(a) A shift differential of thirty-one (.31) cents
per hour will be paid in addition to the hourly rate on all work performed outside the regular day shift as established for each department.
(b)	The shift differential will apply to all employees who are scheduled on day shift for work performed outside their regular day shift hours.
12
(c)	Shift differential shall not be included with any employee’s wage rale for the purpose of calculating overtime.
4.	(a) In lire event that job conditions change, 01 new machinery is installed or a new category is established, the Company will determine an interim rate which will remain in effect until a permanent rate is agreed to. The permanent rate will become effective retroactive to the date of the change, new machine start up or establishment of a new job.
(b) In the event that a new category is established the parties stint t discuss and agree to the applicable posting procedure as pci Supplement No.3.
SECTION V - PAY DAYS
The Company shall provide for pay clays every second week. Each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
SECTION VI - HOURS OF WORK & OVERTIME
I.	PRODUCTION EMPLOYEES (Five Day Operation)
(aj The regular hours of‘ work shall be eight (8) \/ <lj hours per day and forty (40) hours per week f Monday through Friday.
(b)	Overli me wilt be paid at rate and one-half lbi
V"
13
all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a day, forty (40) in a week and for Saturday and for Sunday work.
(c)	Where a department adopts an alternate shift schedule (a) and (b) above will not apply.
(d)	Double straight-time rates shall be paid lot the following:
(i)	Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day.
(ii)	Hours worked Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
(iii)	For the purposes of (d) herein a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
(iv)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
2.	MILLWRIGHTS, MAINTENANCE, REPAIRS AND CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES (5 Day Schedule)
(a)	The regular hours of work shall be five (5) eight (8) hour days, with two (2) days off each week. Such days off will be consecutive days unless mutually agreed to be otherwise between the employee and the Company.
14
(b)	Overtime shall be paid at rale and one-hall for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, on Sunday and upon the employees’ designated days off, if worked.
(c)	Double straight-lime rates shall be paid foi the following:
(i)	Hours worked in excess of eleven (1 I)
hours per day.
(ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked live (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
(iii)	For purposes of (c) herein a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
(iv)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
(cl) Where the Company adopts a voluntary alternate three (3) day shift schedule, (a) and (b) above will not apply.
3.	THREE-SHIFT OPERATION
(a)	The Company shall have the right to operate the plant or any part thereof on a three (3) shift basis and all employees working undei this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift.
15
(b)	It is agreed that Clause (a) above shall apply to those employees actually working on a three (3) shift basis.
(c)	The Company shall have the right to determine the number of shifts operated in any unit or department of the operation.
(d)	Where less than three (3) shifts are worked. Clause (a) above shall not apply.
4.	ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULE -PRODUCTION
Subject to Standing Committee Agreement foi f each occasion, the Company may intermittently /. implement an alternate work schedule of four (4) <Y days per week and ten (10) hours per day Monday through Friday. Scheduling may be Monday through Thursday or Tuesday through Friday or a combination of the two.
The Company and Union may, by mutual agreement, alter the above to include an averaging period for the forty (40) hour week. When alternate schedules have been implemented, the following overtime provision will apply:
(a)	Rate and one-hall’ shall be paid for the following:
(i)	The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours of the established schedule.
16
(ii)	Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
(!!!) A]] hours worked on an employee’s scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
(iv) All hours worked on Saturday and Sunday.
(b)	Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
(i)	All hours worked in excess of (n)(i)
above.
(ii)	All hours worked on Sunday when Sunday is also an employee’s scheduled rest clay, if’ the employee has worked font (4) shifts out of the preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest clay has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
(c)	SECTION VI - HOUR OF WORK AND OVERTIME - 7.(a) does not apply. Straight lime rates shall remain in effect until completion of the regular hours for the ten (10) houi shill.
5.	10 HOUR MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE
The Company shall have the right to schedule
17
maintenance department employees on ten ( 10)
Hour Shifts as deseri bed.
(a)	The regular hours of work shall be ten (1 0) hours per day and 70 (seventy) hours ovet two (2) weeks.
The shift format shall be two (2) days on and iwo (2) clays off; three (3) days on and two (2) off; and two (2) days on and three (3) off or similar combination each fourteen (14) day period.
(b)	Rate and one-half shall be paid for the following:
(i)	All hours in excess of eight (8) hours per day.
(ii)	All hours worked on Sunday when Sunday is a scheduled day.
(iii)	At I hours worked on an employee’s scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed lo between the employee and the Company.
(c)	Double straight-time rates shall be paid foi the following:
(i) All hours in excess of’ eleven (I I) hours per day
(ii) Hours worked on Sunday by employees 18
who have worked all scheduled shifts in the preceding six (6) days.
(iii)	For purposes of (c) herein a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked (iv) Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as it regularly scheduled day.
6.	ALTERNATE THREE (3) DAY SHIFT SCHEDULE - MAINTENANCE
The parties agree with the principle that efforts to utilize the Alternate Three (3) Day Shift Schedule will lirst be done by seeking volunteers in the needed trades. 11’ there are not sufficient numbet of volunteers to meet the needs then the Company may schedule as per (e) and (f) below.
(a)	Scheduled days off each week shall be consecutive days unless mutually agreed lo be otherwise between the employee and the Company.
(b)	Overtime shall be paid at rale and one-hall for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, on Sunday and upon the employee’s designated cloys off, if worked.
(e)	Double straight-time rates shall be paid foi the following:
(i) Hours worked in excess of eleven (I 1) hours per day.
Ih
(ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
(iii)	For purposes of (c) herein it Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
(iv)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
(d)	Employees who work the full schedule shall not receive less than forty (40) hours straight time pay per week.
(e)	During periods when a planermill is operating three (3) shifts, planermen may be scheduled lo work the Alternate Three (3) Day Shift Schedule. The Company’s right to schedule any individual employee is limited to twenty-live percent (25%) of the calendar year.
(f)	The Company may regularly schedule up to four (4) tradesmen per mill to work the Alternate Three (3) Day Shift Schedule. The Company’s right to schedule any individual employee is limited to twenty-five percent (25%) of the calendar year.
(a) It is agreed between the Parties that if two (2) hours or less are necessary after midnight on
7.	GENERAL
20
Saturday or a Statutory Holiday, to complete the shill which commenced work on the afternoon preceding the Saturday or Statutory Holiday, lime worked after midnight to complete this shift will be paid at straight time.
(h) The foregoing provisions of this Section shalt not be construed as guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work pet day or per week.
(c)	All employees shall be entitled to two (2) ten-minute rest periods during each regular shift, provided always that the Company shall have the right lo use relief employees in implementing this provision.
8.
(d)	All employees working a ten (IO) hour ot longer schedule shall be entitled to three (3) ten ( IO) minute rest periods during each regular shift.
FAILURE TO PROVIDE WORK
(a)	Any employee reporting for work and finding no work available due lo reasons beyond his of her control, shall be entitled to two (2) hours pay at the usual rate. This shall apply unless the Company gives notice not to report.
(b) When an employee reports for work and starts work, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate unless his work is suspended because of inclement weather or other reasons
21
completely beyond the control of the Company.
9.	CASUAL WORKER
(a)	The term “casual worker” as used in this Agreement shall apply to any person who works less than three (3) clays in any one week.
(b)	All casual workers, including laid-off regular employees, shall be paid for work performed at straight-time rates, except for work performed on Sundays, Statutory Holidays, and hours in excess of eight (8) per day, in which case rate and one-half will be paid.
(c)	Employment of laid off regular employees as casual workers shall not result in commencement of a new period of seniority retention.
(d)	Laid off regular employees shall have preference for available work over the said casual employees.
10.	Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this Section, the Company will not be liable for the payment specified in SECTION VI -HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME - 6 (a) and (b) where an employee on reporting for work finds no work available due to contravention of SECTION XIV - GENERAL PROVISIONS -2. by any person bound by this Agreement.
22
11. MEALS
(a) Where an employee is required to continue
continues to work may elect to receive one half hour overtime pay and a meal allowance of $14.24.
(b)	Where an employee is required to continue ^ jly working more than a half shift, a second meal 1 //), will be provided during the shift break or he
' may elect to receive a meal allowance of A $14.24.
(c)	Where an employee is required to report to work in advance of his regular shift without sufficient time to cat his regular meal or prepare a lunch, he will be provided with a meal within an hour of’ the start of his regular shift, on Company time, and a second meal tit the shift break.
(cl) Where sufficient notice has been given, and tin employee reports to work more than one hour in advance of his regular shift, he is entitled to a hot meal to be consumed on Company time, provided he completes his regular shift. If the employee has reported to work more than one hall‘ shift in advance ol his regular shift, he is entitled to a second
23
meal to be consumed on the shill break, provided he completes his regular shift. In lieu of either of the above meals (c) and (cl), an employee may elect to receive a meal allowance of $14.24.
(e)	The meal will be scheduled at a time when production will not be adversely affected but having consideration for the employee’s needs.
SECTION VII - SENIORITY
g:
" 'J •' J
1.	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, it shall be mutually agreed that all employees arc hired on probation, the probationary period lo continue until thirty (30) days have been worked, during which time they are to be considered temporary workers only, and during this same period, no seniority rights shall be recognized. Upon completion of thirty (30) days worked, they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company’s employ, provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) days worked shall only be cumulative within the three (3) calendar months following the date entering employment.
• -
2,	)The Company recognizes the principles of senior-
ity in their application to the promotion, demotion, transfer, lay-off and recall of employees, providing the employee has the qualifications and ability to perform the work properly.
24
3.	(a) (i) In the event of a reduction of the I'orees, the last hired shall be the lirst released, subject to the provisions of Subsection 2 of this Section. Where a reduction ol forces is caused by emergency conditions the application of seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary but not exceeding three (3) working days except that the Union and Company may agree to extend this period to a maximum of five (5) working days. If the Company decides Lo exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Union immediately.
(ii)	When the mill or a portion thereof is shut down for maintenance purposes on normal production clays for a period in excess of one ( 1 ) shi ft, product ion employees affected who wish to perform the work available will be selected in accordance with the principles outlined in 2 above and will be paid al regular rate for the work performed.
(iii)	When the mill or a portion thereof is shut down during a normal production shift the Company may require employees to perform alternative work for the balance of that shift at their regular job rale oi the rate of the alternative job, whichever is the greater.
25
(b)	During a reduction of forces where an employee’s seniority is such that he will not be able to keep his regular job he may elect to apply his seniority to obtain a job paying a higher rate if he has previously held the job in the operation as an incumbent or has worked as a relief operator for sixty (60) days.
(c)	During a reduction of forces where an employee’s seniority is such that he will not be able to keep his regular job he may cleet whether or not to apply his seniority Lo obtain a lower paid job or a job paying the same rate of pay or return to his last posted job or job vacancy. Where a change of departments is required, the employee will have seniority in that department for posting purposes only.
(i) It is recognized by the Company that a certain amount of training and/or rctrai n-ing will be required. The intent is to refresh skills, not to introduce new and unfamiliar skills.
(d)	The employee may accept a lay-off until his regular job becomes available, provided however;
(i) If during the lay-off period the employee wishes to return to work and so notifies the Company, he shall be called back to work as soon as his seniority entitles him to a job.
26
(ii) The application of this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his rights, bumping an employee with less seniority.
(e)	An incumbent who is laid off from his regulai job may apply his seniority as in 3(b),3(c) and 3(d) abtn e.
(i) He will maintain seniority in the department he is laid off from so long as he is not awarded a posting in another department.
(ii) Ineligibility will be waived on job postings.
4.	When employees arc recalled after lay-off it shall be done on the basis of the last person laid off shall be the first person recalled, subject to the provisions of Subsection 2 of this Section and the following:
(a) It shall be the employee’s responsibility to keep the Company informed of his address during a period of lay-off.
(b)	Sufficient notice of recall shall consist of notification by registered mail, by telephone 01 by personal contact.
(c)	It is agreed that all employees shall return lo work as quickly as possible alter receiving
27
notification of recall in accordance with this Section and shall retain all their seniority rights.
(d)	Failure to report within one (I) week shall result in loss of seniority rights, except where the employee advises the company of his inability to return, in which case the one (I) week may be extended.
5.	Incumbent-Relief and other seniority lists that the
Company may use will be made available to the union every month.
6.	It is agreed between the Parties that seniority dur-
ing lay-offs shall be retained on the following basis:
(a)	Employees with less than one (I) year’s service will retain their seniority lor a period ol eight (8) months.
(b)	Employees with one (I) or more year’s service shall retain their seniority for one (I) year plus one (1) additional month for each year’s service, up to an additional twelve (12) months.
7.	The purpose of this section is to provide training so that an employee may apply his seniority in the event of his lay-off or the permanent elimination of his job as outlined below. This section does not apply to the reduction of seasonal or temporary shifts or positions except as in (a) below.
28
(a)	Any employee affected by lay-off that is estimated to be up to forty-live (45) days will follow procedures outlined in SECTION VII - SENIORITY.
(b)	Any employee affected by a lay-oil that is estimated to be in excess of forty-live (45) days and whose lack of past experience preeludes him from exercising his seniority to obtain a job at or above the Group 2 level, may elect to be trained in Group 2,3 or Planer Group. Normal training periods shall apply.
(c)	Any employee affected by a lay-off that is estimated to be in the excess of one hundred and eighty (180) clays and whose lack of past experience precludes him from exercising his seniority to obtain a job al of above the Group 1 level may elect Lo be trained iii Group 1,2,3 or Planer Group. Normal training periods shall apply.
(cl) Any employee affected by a permanent lay off and whose lack of past experience precludes him from exercising his seniority lo obtain a job at of above the Group I level may elect lo be trained iii Group 1 ,2,3 oi Planer Group.
In addition, the Company will meet with the Union lo establish a training program in other jobs with the objective of eventually placing laid off personnel in line with their seniority. Phasing-
29
in arrangements of such a program will be discussed between the parties to accomplish the objective with minimal impact on quality and quantity of production.
An employee may only use this section to exercise his seniority to be trained for a job at an equal or lower rate than that which he held at the time of the lay-off or permanent loss of job.
SECTION VIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
I.	(a) Any employee desiring leave of absence foi any reason other than those set out in 2 and 3 of this Section must obtain same in writing from the Company, a copy of such leave to be forwarded to the Local Union.
(b) Where any employee is granted a leave ol absence under this Section for a period ol longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the Company agrees to notify the Shop Steward and the Union as to the circumstances for the granting of such a period of leave.
2.	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the Employer. 3
3.	(a) The Company agrees that it is proper to grant , .. ' leave of absence to employees who have been YyA elected or appointed to an office or position in their Union or who have been nominated oi
30
elected to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office. However, it is not the intention of the Company to grant lifetime leaves of absence.
In the ease of a employee being appointed or elected to a lull-time office or position in the Union, he shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of such office.
Seniority shall accumulate during the period of an employees’s leave of absence.
Employees elected to Federal, Provincial 01 Municipal office shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of such office.
(b) The Company will grant leave of absence to '/ employees who are elected as representatives^!/' lo attend Union meetings and Union conven/^U Lions, or members of any Union Negotiating ' Committees iii order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if leave of1 absence for Union business is requested lot several employees of the same department 01 work group and in the event that their absence will impair production or prohibit the normal functioning of the operation, then the Company shall have the right to grant leave ol absence only to those employees who can be given leave. Such leaves of absence shall not
31
he unreasonably denied.
(c)	It is agreed that before the employee receives this leave of absence as set forth in clause (a) and (b) above, the Company will be given sufficient notice in writing by the Union lo replace the employee with a competent substitute.
(d)	The Company will consider request for leave of absence for educational or training purposes. In judging such requests the Company will consider the following:
(i)	The course must be appropriate 1 o the employee’s present job or immediate potential with the Company on successful completion.
(ii)	Leaves of absence will not be granted where the efficient operation of the mill or any department is affected.
(iii)	Employees must apply in writing al least one (1) month in advance of the requested leave of absence.
(iv)	Employees must have al least one (I) year of service.
(v)	Request for leave of more than six (6) months duration will not normally be granted.
32
Bend it plans will be maintained during the leave of absence but the employee will pay the entire cost of such plans.
(c)	(i) It is agreed that Bmployecs may he required to temporarily (ill positions outside the Bargaining Unit. These employees will be allowed lo fill such positions for a maximum of one hundred and twenty (120) working days in each calender year and shall continue to accumulate seniority during this time. The one hundred and twenty ( 120) working days may be extended subject to mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
A maximum of eight hundred (800) clays will be allowed per calendar year. This total will exclude all employees removed from the bargaining unit lo fill non-supervisory positions.
Upon returning lo the Bargaining Unit those Employees will return to the job held prior to the temporary assignment, providing their seniority will allow them lo take the position.
Where an Employee is transferred to a temporary position under this .Subsection, the Company will notify the Union and Crew Shop Steward, in
33
advance il' possible, and will post a notice in the appropriate lunch room(s).
(ii)	In the event of a lay-off a temporary Supervisor will be used in that position only so long as his seniority entitles him lo a position in the mill.
(iii)	It is agreed that an employee who accepts a salaried position outside the Bargaining Unit may elect to return to the Bargaining Unit at any time within one (I) calendar year of transferring lo the salaried position. The employee’s seniority will be maintained but will not be accumulated during the one year period. If the employee elects to return to the Bargaining Unit he may cxdrcise his Wood Products Seniority to obtain a job through the normal posting procedure. Employees who elect this option will be required lo pay back dues for the appropriate period when they return to the Bargaining Unit.
4.	JURY OR WITNESS DUTY (j3 //3 - -
Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, or who is subpoenaed to serve as a witness in a Court Action or Coroner’s inquest, save and except actions involving the Company or Trade Union, unless subpoenaed by the Crown, on a day on which he would normally have worked, will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay received for
34
such duty and his regular straight-time hourly rate of pay lor his regularly scheduled hours of work. Piece workers will be compensated as per SECTION X - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS - 2.(c). It
is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or (40) hours per week, less pay received for such duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of performing such service and such duty pay received.	r_.
( '’‘‘x'"
5.	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
(a)	When death occurs to a member of a rcgulai full-time employee’s immediate family, the employee will be granted funeral leave oi absence for which he shall be compensated al his regular straight time hourly rate of pay lot his regular work schedule. Piece workers will be compensated as per SECTION X -STATUTORY HOLIDAYS - 2.(c).
Five (5) days paid funeral leave will be granted to an employee attending the funeral when its location is outside a live hundred (500) kilometre radius of Mackenzie. Three (3) days paid funeral leave will be granted to employees attending the funeral when its location is within a live hundred (500) kilometres. One (I) day paid bereavement leave will apply when the employee does not attend the funeral
(b)	Members of the employee’s immediate family 35
are defined as the employee’s spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, stepparents, grandparents and grandchildren, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law and step-children, grandpar-ents-in-law, and *Common-law spouse.
’^Interpretation - have been co-habitating foi one (1) year.
(c)	When death occurs to a member of a regular full-time employees immediate family, the employee will receive appropriate unpaid compassionate leave.
(d)	Compensable hours under the terms of this Section will be counted as hours worked foi the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overti me. 6 7
6.	Except as provided in No.7 Maternity Leave
seniority shall accumulate for the period any employee is on approved leave of absence up to one (1) year and if the leave of absence is more than one( 1) year, the seniority date will be maintained but not accumulated for the additional period.
7.	MATERNITY LEAVE
(a)	Maternity Leave will be granted upon request providing verification of pregnancy is made
36
by a qualified physician.
(b)	Seniority shall accumulate for the period any employee is on approved Maternity leave up to one hundred eighty ( 1 SO) days and if the leave is more than one hundred eighty (1 80) days, the seniority will be maintained but not accumulated for the additional period. . '/>)'■
(c)	In no event shall Maternity Leave extend more than sixty (60) days past birth. Any further leave of absence must be for valid medical reasons.
SECTION IX - VACATIONS WITH PAY
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 1986 A.
1.	(a) A vacation with pay will be granted to all
employees in accordance with provisions of the “Employment Standards Act”, of the Statutes of British Columbia, and amendments thereto, except that the qualification period shall be two hundred (200) days, instead of two hundred and twenty-five (225) days, as provided for in the Act.
(b) Vacation pay for employees with one ( 1 ) lo Iwo (2) years of continuous service shall be at the rate of 5% of earnings. 2
2.	(a) Employees with two (2) or more years contin-
uous service with the Company shall receive
37
three (3) weeks vacation with vacation pay at the rate of seven percent (7%) of earnings.
(b) The third week vacation as in (a) will be taken but docs not have lo be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in the above clause but at a time convenient to the Company.
3.	(a) An employee with seven (7) years continu-
ous service shall receive an additional one week vacation with pay, based on two percent (2%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the working year.
(b) The additional one (1) week will be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Subsection I and 2 herein.
4.	(a) An employee with fifteen (15) or more years
continuous service shall receive a furthci additional one (I) week vacation with pay, based on two percent (2%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the working year.
(b) The additional one (1) week will be taken when convenient for the Company but docs not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Subsection I and 2 herein.
38
5.	(a) An employee with twenty-lbur (24) or more years continuous service shall receive a further additional one ( I ) weeks vacation with pay, based on two percent (2%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the working year.
(b)	The additional one (I) week will be taken when con > cent for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Subsection I and 2 herein.
6.	(a) An employee with thirty (30) or more years continuous service shall receive a I'urlhei additional one (I) week vacation with pay, based on two percent (2%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the working year.
(b) The additional one (1) week will be taken when convenient for the Company hut does not have Lo be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Subsection I and 2 herein.
B.
1.	Vacation with pay for employees engaged on
piecework rates shall be based on the average daily earnings for the previous twelve months oi such lesser period of lime employed. 2
2.	Vacation for employees shall be taken at such
limes mutually agreed upon by the Union and the
39
Company when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired.
Vacation approval slips will he issued to employees as soon as possible.
3.	The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations with pay for any employee after one (1) continuous year of employment:
(a)	Absence on Workers’ Compensation for a period of twelve (I 2) months provided the employee returns to his employment.
(b)	Absence due to illness or non-occupational accident up to a period of one (I) year, provided the employee returns to his employment. The Company shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
(c) Absence duo to jury or witness duty in accordance with SECTION VIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE - 4., or due to bereavement leave in accordance with SECTION VIII -LEAVE OF ABSENCE - 5.
(d) Any other absence duly approved by the Company in writing shall be credited toward entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
40
4.	With respect to vacation pay calculated and subject to the qualifications contained in .Subsection B.4, the hollowing provisions will apply:
(i) Percentage of
Years of Service	Earnings y
or
Number of Hours at the Hourly Rate of the Employees Regular Job
1-2	5%	Ol- 0'0' 80 hours
2-7	7%	0 ~ f J120 hours
7-15	9%	o'7 J ^160 hours
15-24	11%	7 ^ y ^ 200 hours
24-30	13%	r; ' ■' 240 hours
30 and over	15%	T .''- 280 hours
(iii)	The hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, as provided for in Subsection B.4 (ii) above, shall mean the hourly rate of the employee’s regular job al the time the employee takes the first two (2) weeks or more of vacation after the cut off date.
5.	(a) (i) In order to qualify for the greater of per-
centage of earnings or number of hours, its provided for in Subsection B.4 above, an employee must have worked a minimum of one thousand five hundred (1500) hours in his first year of service, and a minimum of one thousand (1000) hours during his succeeding years of entitlement.
(ii) Tor the purpose of calculating minimum
41
hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one yeai to the cut-off date in the succeeding year.
(b) For the purposes of computing the requisite
hours, the following will be included:
(i)	All hours worked;
(ii)	Statutory Holiday hours;
(iii)	Jury or Witness Duty;
(iv)	Bereavement Leave;
(v)	Vacation Hours;
(vi)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as
the result of an accident recognized as compensable b y	the Workers’
Compensation Board, suffered during the course of employment, shall be considered as time world for the purpose of qualifying for vacation;
(vii)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of a non-occupational accident or illness, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation provided that at the lime of the accident or illness the employee has been on the payroll for not less than one (I) year and that he returns to his employment. It is understood that the employer
42
may require that the employee provide a certificate from it qualilied medical practitioner:
(viii)	Time lost as the result of lay-off shall not be considered as time worked for the purposes of qualifying for requisite hours;
(ix)	Employees who report for work and who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any such shift for purposes of computing the requisite hours under this Section;
(x)	All hours worked in more than one Division of the parent company as a result of transfer or lay-off.
(c)	Employees whose employment is terminated shall receive vacation pay at the appropriate percentage rate as provided in SUBSECTION A. (1,2,3,4,5, or 6).
6.	Effective June 1st, 1986, the vacation year shall be from June 1 st to May 3 I st.	^
SECTION X - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS / (!y-
1.	(a) All hourly-rate employees who work on New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Empire Day, Dominion Day, British Columbia Day, Laboui Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day, shall be paid rate and one-half for all hours so worked.
4.
43	t
(b) In the event one of the above Statutory Holidays falls on a Sunday, the previous Friday or the following Monday shall be observed as the holiday. In the event one ol the above Statutory Holidays falls on a Saturday and the government declares anothei day as the holiday then the declared day shall be observed as the holiday.
2.	(a) All hourly rated and piece work employees who qualify for the paid holiday under the conditions set out below shall be paid for the holiday at their regular job rale of pay l'ot eight (8) hours.
The Parties hereto agree that the paid Statutory Holidays shall be as follows: New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Empire Day, Dominion Day, British Columbia Day, Laboui Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
(b)	Piece work employees shall receive pay foi the Statutory Holiday for which they qualify, based on the average hourly earnings for the days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) working days.
(c)	All hourly rated employees working on a paid holiday shall receive rate and one-hall ‘ for hours worked on such days in addition to the holiday pay to which he is entitled.
44
(d)	To qualify for Statutory Holiday pay, an employee must have been on the Company payroll for the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preccdi ng the Statutory Holiday and must have worked his last regularly scheduled work day before, and his first regularly scheduled work clay after the holiday, unless his absence is due to a compensable occupational injury or illness, which occurred within six (6) months of the holiday, or the employee is on authorized leave of absence in accordance with SECTION VIII - LEAVE OE ABSENCE - 2.
(c) In the case of illness or injury, the Company shall have the right lo request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
(I‘) Notwithstanding any of’ the foregoing provisions, the employee must have worked one (I) day before and one (1) day after the holiday, both of which must fall within a period of sixty (60) calendar days.
3.	(a) In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, and where the Company and the Union agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday, respectively.
(b) When a Statutory Holiday falls on a Friday, employees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, by mutual agreement between the
43
Company and the Union, may work on the Friday Statutory Holiday at straight lime job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday.
(c) In the event that one ( 1) of the above mentioned Statutory Holiday falls on Saturday it shall be observed on the preceding Friday 01 succeeding Monday as agreed between the Company and the Union. In the case of a maintenance employee where one of the Statutory Holidays is observed on his rest day, he shall have a day off without pay in lieu thereof at a mutually agreeable date.
4.	PERSONAL FLOATING HOLIDAY
This section becomes effective September 1 st, 1978. This personal floating holiday is in lieu of’ the proposed Heritage Day but this Section shall come into operation on its effective date even ii Heritage Day has not been proclaimed.
^ \	(a) PERSONAL FLOATING HOLIDAY
Regular full-time employees will be granted one (1) personal floating holiday during each contract year of this Agreement, to be arranged at a time suitable to the Employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production.
(b)	QUALIFYING CONDITIONS
When the personal floating holiday is taken, an
46
employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his regular job rate of pay lor his regular work schedule, subject Lo the following conditions:
(ii)	An employee will not qualify lor the per-
sonal floating holiday if on leave of absence for more than nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury.
(iii)	An employee shall apply on an approved form, at least seven (7) days in advance, for his personal floating holiday.
The employee shall receive notice of the disposition of his request a minimum ol seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested personal floating holiday.
SECTION XI - SAFETY AND HEALTH
I. (a) The Company and employees will co-operate to assure safe working methods and conditions and devise plans for the furtherance ol safety measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon to be provided by the Company.	.
(b) Employees will not be expected to operate'
47
with unsafe equipment, work under unsafe conditions, or commit unsafe acts.
2. (a) The Company shall maintain a Joint Industrial Health and Sal'ety Committee of fourteen (14) members. Members of the Committee shall be designated to equal number by the Employees and the Company.
Employee representatives shall be rcgulai employees experienced in the operation, in addition, each of the mills (“A”,”B”,and “C”) will maintain an Industrial Health and Safely Committee comprised of an equal number ol Employees and Management front theii respective mills.
(b) The Union shall maintain chairpersons for each of the mill committees and for the joint Industrial Health and Safety committee. The Union Industrial Health and Safety committee chairperson shall be a member of all committees, with a view coward providing development and liaison between mill committees.
3.
Industrial Health and Safety Committee meetings will be held during working hours at a lime mulu-(AU' ally agreed upon. Employees’ time will not be f/deducted for attending such meetings or investigations into accidents. 4
4. The Company will pay straight time rates (at employees job rate) for authorized time spent by
48
employee members in attending Industrial Health and Safely meetings or other Industrial Health and Safety committee matters outside working hours. Pay for any regular Industrial Health and Sal'cty committee meeting is not to exceed two (2) hours.
5.(a) The Company will replace the following equipment at no cost to the employee when these articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair and when they are required lo be used by the Company or the Workers’ Compensation Board:
(i)	Aprons
(ii)	I lard Hats
(iii)	Kyc, Ear and Nose Protective Equipment
(iv)	Welding Goggles and Gloves
(v)	Flotation Equipment
(vi)	Gloves
(b) The Company will assist in the purchase of safety toed boots in the following ways:
(i) The Company will refund li fry percent (50%) of the cost of each pair of safety toed bools purchased by the employee for his personal use at any retail store upon a valid receipt being presented to the Human Resources Office.
49
(ii) The Company assistance for boot purchases is limited to two (2) pair per year. Exceptions will be made for unusual wear and tear on an individual basis.
(c)	The Company will make rain gear available for those employees who arc required to work in adverse weather conditions.
SECTION XII - STANDING COMMITTEE
1.	A Standing Committee shall be maintained in the following manner:
(a)	The Management shall appoint a Company Standing Committee of‘ no more than six (6) individuals which shall represent the Company.
(b)	The Union shall elect from its membership a Union Standing Committee of no more than six (6) individuals which shall represent the Union. 2
2.	The Union will, within thirty (30) days from the
date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members of the Standing Committee. The Union and Company will inform each other in writing when any member changes on the Standing Committee. No member of the Standing Committee will be recognized by the Company or Union unless the above procedure is carried out.
50
SECTION XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
In the event that there is any dispute or complaint as to the interpretation of any of the clauses of this Agreement or any grievance arising out of the operation of this Agreement, it shall be dealt with in the following manner:
(a) The individual employee involved shall first take up the matter with the foreman directly in charge of the work (with or without the Shop Steward) at the option of the employee, within fourteen (14) days of the occurrence of the event or events giving rise lo the grievance. Where the employee wishes to have a Shop Steward accompany him. the Company will endeavour lo relieve the Shop Steward its guickly as practicable.
(b)	II1 the grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Standing Committee, where it shall be reduced lo writing and shall be dealt with within thirty (30) clays of the initiation of the grievance.
(c)	If the two (2) Standing Committees are unable to arrive at n satisfactory settlement, the question may be taken up directly with the Manager, within fourteen ( 14) days of completion of the procedure outlined in (b) above.
(cl) If the Manager and I ,ocal Union are unable to arrive at a satisfactory settlement within five (5) days, the question may within fourteen
51
(14) days of completion of this procedure be referred to a board of arbitration as provided for in SECTION XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE - 3.
(e)	It is agreed that the above time limits may be extended by mutual agreement but if a grievance has not advanced to the next step within the specified or extended time limit, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all right of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end.
(f)	It is hereby agreed that the inclusion of SECTION XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE - l.(a), “The individual employee involved shall first take up the matter with the foreman directly in charge of the work, with or without the Shop Steward, at the option of the employee, within fourteen (14) days of the occurrence of the event or events giving rise to the grievance”, shall not be used to discourage employees and supervisors from discussing mutual problems and complaints on a person to person basis. 2
2.	(a) Grievances not appropriate for an individual to pursue may be referred directly to the Standing Committee by the Union within fourteen (14) days of the occurrence of the event or events giving rise to the grievance.
(b) Grievances which the Company wishes to 52
pursue may be referred directly lo the Standing Committee within fourteen (14) days of the occurrence of the event or events giving rise lo the grievance.
(c) If the two (2) Standing Committees are unable lo arrive al a satisfactory settlement, the question may be taken up directly with the Manager and the Local Union within fourteen (14) days of completion of the procedure outlined in (a) or (b) above.
(cl) I f the Manager and Local Union are unable to arrive at a satisfactory settlement within five (5) days, the question may within fourteen (14) days of completion of this procedure be referred to a Board of Arbitration as provided
for in SECTION XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE - 3.
(e)	It is agreed that the above lime limits may be extended by mutual agreement, but if a grievance hits not advanced lo the next step within the specified or extended time limit, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned anti all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end.
(f)	II is the intent of this Agreement that grievances of individual employees shall be dealt with as described in SECTION XIII-GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE -1.
53
(g)	Except in unusual circumstances, an employee will have Union representation present (il he/she wishes) at all disciplinary meetings involving a written warning or more serious disciplinary action.
3.	In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation or application of this Agreement, which the Parties hereto arc unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by arbitration in the following manner:
(a)	Either party may notify the other party in writing by registered mail of the dispute to be arbitrated, and the name and address of its chosen representative for the arbitration board. After receiving such notice and statement the other party shall, within five (5) days, appoint an Arbitrator and give notice in writing of such appointment and the name and address of its Arbitrator.
(b)	The two (2) Arbitrators thus named shall, within ten (I 0) days, do everything in theii power to choose a third Arbitrator who will preside as Chairman for the Board ol Arbitration.
(c)	In all matters of procedure not covered by the provisions of this section, including alternate procedure for the selection of the third Arbitrator, the provisions of the Arbitration Act (R.S.B.C. 1960 Chapter 14) shall apply.
54
(d)	No one shall serve as a member of an Arbitration Board who:
(i)	either directly or indirectly has any interest iii the subject of the arbitration;
(ii)	has participated in the grievance procedure preceding the arbitration;
(iii)	is, of has been, within ii period of six (6) months preceding the initiation of arbitration proceedings, employed by the Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers ol Canada. Local 18 or Fletcher Challenge Canada Limited, Mackenzie Operations.
(c) If any Arbitration Board finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, such employee shall be reinstated with all his rights and privileges preserved under the terms of the Agreement. The Arbitration Board shall further make the determination on the amount of lost pay It) be paid to the employee.
(f)	The Parlies of the First and Second Parts will each bear the expenses and charges of their representatives on any Arbitration Board, and shall bear in equal proportions, the expenses and allowances of the Chairman, the stenographic and secretarial expenses and rent.
(g)	When practical any arbitration to be held
55
hereunder shall he held at Mackenzie.
(h)	If both the Company and the Union agree a one man Arbitration Hoard may be implemented.
SECTION XIV - GENERAL PROVISIONS
I Official Union Representatives shall obtain access to the Company’s operations for the purpose oi the Agreement by written permission, which will be granted by the Company on request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
2.	(a) It is agreed that there shall be no strikes,
walk-outs or other interruption of work during the term of this Agreement.
(b)	It is agreed that there shall be no lock outs by the Company during the term of this Agreement.
(c)	In the event of any conduct within the meaning of (a) above, during the term of this Agreement the Union will instruct its members and officers to comply with the terms of this Agreement. 3
3.	The Company shall supply adequately enclosed bulletin boards for the use of the Union in posting officially signed bulletins. One (I) board will be placed in each lunchroom.
56
4.	Lay-off coverage for medical benefits Will be provided on the following basis:
(a) Employees with four (4) months of employment or less:
Coverage until the end of the month following (lie month in which they were laid off.
(b) Hmployees with four (4) months to one (1) year of employment:
Three (3) months of coverage following the month in which they were laid off.
(e)	Hmployees with one (1) year or more of service:
Six (6) months of coverage following the month in which they were laid off.
(cl) In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage lo occur there must ho a return lo regular full-time employment. An Employee returns lo regular full-time employment when lie is employed lot ten (1 0) working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive (calendar) days.
(e) Also tin Employee who returns to work for at least one ( I ) working day and less than ten (10) working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any lay-off coverage to which he was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
57
New Weekly Indemnity claims will not be established during lay-off periods. Medical travel ceases except for ongoing treatment.
SECTION XV - HEALTH AND WELFARE PLAN
1.	INSTITUTION
It is agreed that a health and welfare plan be instituted within the principles hereinafter set out.
2.	BOARD OF TRUSTEES
A Board of Trustees will be comprised of two (2) members representing the Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers of Canada, Local 18, and two (2) members representing the Company, to be responsible for the placement of’ coverage and administration of the plan. However, the Parties’ obligation shall be subject to the limitations in the contracts of the selected carrier or carriers.
3.	UMPIRE
Where a dispute is unresolvablc by the Board of Trustees, it shall be submitted lo an umpire whose decision will be binding on both parties. The umpire shall be mutually acceptable and be experienced in the group insurance field.
Notwithstanding the above, an umpire shall not decide on matters affecting the overall cost of the Plan and benefits it provides, nor is he empowered to deal with matters properly handled through the Adjustment of Complaints Procedure
58
of this Agreement, or matters that arc properly dealt with through collective bargaining.
Should any conflict arise between the terms ol the contract or contracts issued by the underwriter or underwriters and the terms of the plan, the terms of the plan shalt prevail.
4.	INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR ELIGI-LE EMPLOYEES, AS FOLLOWS:
(a)	Group Life Insurance in accordance with the following Table of Hourly Job Rate Brackets and corresponding coverage. Benefits will be payable as a result of death, from any cause on a twenty-four (24) hour coverage basis.
-• j v - > y y
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment , Insurance in accordance with the following'] 'Table of Hourly Job Rate Brackets and corre- A', spending coverage, on a twenty-four (24)
/hour coverage basis.
/	.	.	-7 ^
(c)	Medical and Extended Medical coverage.,---^
4
;/ Effective July 1, 1992 the maximum amount of Extended Health Benefits payable for any one member or dependent will be increased from twenty-live thousand dollars ($25,000)
(cl
Payment, up lo a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-
to thirty thousand dollars ($30,000).
/vision Care for Employees and Dependents.
59
four (24) consecutive month period, I'oi charges incurred relative to the purchase ol lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription; provided, however, that if the eyeglasses are for an employee for use while working in a mill they must be safely lenses and frames.
(e) All full-time employees who are actively working on the first working day of the month following their date of’ employment, will be enrolled for the coverage set forth in Sections (a), (b) and (c) as a condition of employment.
•' // J J
(1) A Dental Care Plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
(i)	(Plan A) Basic dental services
Plan pays eighty percent (80%) of approved schedule of fees.
A
(ii)	(Plan B) Prosthetics, crowns and bridges Plan pays fifty percent (50%) ol approved schedule of fees.
(iii)	(Plan C) Orthodontic
Plan pays fifty percent (50%) of approved schedule of fees.
Lifetime maximum two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), maximum age - nineteen (19) years.
60
(Amended July I, I 988)
(iv)	The Plan will not duplicate benefits provided now or which may be provided in the future by any government program.
(g)	Premium costs in (a),(h),(c),(d) and (1) above"i will be paid by the Company.
(h)	Non-occupational Weekly Indemnity Benefits payable beginning the first cloy of disability caused by non-occupational accident and beginning with the fourth day of disability caused by non-occupational sickness, except that in those cases of non-occupational sickness which have resulted in the claimant being hospitalized as a bed patient, the said Weekly Indemnity benefits will be payable beginning the first day of hospitalization 01 the fourth day of disability whichever occurs lint. Benefits will be payable lor a maximum of filly-two (52) weeks during any one (1) period of disability, in accordance with the following table of Hourly Job Rate Brackets and corresponding coverage.
The regular wage rate of the employee in effect on July 1st and January 1st will determine his entitlement to the weekly indemnity benefit in the following table. The rale paid to Flat (or Lunlz) car loaders on Dominion Day as per SECTION X - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS - 2.(c) will be considered the regular
0 I
wage in effect that July I st.
The Union accepts the Non-occupational Weekly Indemnity Benefits Plan as payment in kind of the employee’s share of any reduction in the Unemployment Insurance premium which may occur in 1981 and 1982 as a result of this plan under Unemployment Insurance Regulations.
62
A. Table of Hourly Job Rate Brackets and Corresponding Coverage Effective July 1, 1988
NON-OCCUPATIONAL WEEKLY ACCIDENT & SICKNESS INSURANCE
Hourly Job Rate
Less than 15.50
15.50 but less than 15.75
15.75 16.00
16.25
16.50
16.75
17.00
17.25
17.50
17.75
18.00
18.25
18.50
18.75
19.00
19.25
19.50
19.75
20.00
20.25
20.50
20.75 21.00
21.25
21.50
or over
16.00
16.25
16.50
16.75
17.00
17.25
17.50
17.75
18.00
18.25
18.50
18.75
19.00
19.25
19.50
19.75
20.00
20.25
20.50
20.75 21.00
21.25
21.50 •
GROUP TERM LIFE A.D.&.D.
Effective July I, 1988	50,000
Effective July I, 1990	55,000
63
July 1,1988
415
420
425
430
435
440
445
450
455
460
465
470
475
480
485
490
495
500
505
510
515
520
525
530
535
J''10
50.000
55.000
(i)	Long Term Disability Insurance (Effective September I st, 1979) to provide benefits of fifty percent (50%) of regular weekly earnings calculated at forty (40) limes disabled employee’s hourly straight lime job rate, at date of disability, with Long Term Disability benefits payable for a minimum period of sixty (60) months but not beyond the attainment of age sixty-five (65). Other terms and conditions of this plan and conditions pertaining to implementation will be established pursuant to the Long Tcr'in Disability Plan Summary.
September 11 th, 1979
Amended July 1 st, 198 I
.A-
J
(j)
All full time employees who arc actively working on the first working clay of the month following their first full month of employment, will be enrolled for the coverage set forth in sections (Ij, (Ii) and (i) as condition of employment.
(k) Premium costs will be shared seventy percent (70%) by the Company and thirty percent (30%) by the employee with respect to coverage set forth in sections (h) and (i) above.	'
M
(A) MEDICAL TRAVEL
The Company will provide the following coverage.
(i)	TRAVEL BEYOND PRINCE: GEORGE
(a)	Where in the opinion of the attending physician treating a member Employee and/or his registered dependents adequate treatment is not available locally, transportation by regularly scheduled air, I-ail or bus will be provided to and from the nearest locale in B.C., equipped to provide the required and recommended treatment by a physician 01 surgeon within two (2) months of referral 01 the earliest available appointment thereafter.
(b)	Where necessary and at the request of the attending physician, provision for transportation of an attendant in connection with the aforementioned transportation of any employee or his registered dependents.
(c)	Where transportation has been provided to the nearest locale where adequate facilities arc available, provision for assistance regarding accommodation limited lo commercial facilities for patients or attendants but not both (where the attendant is a member of the patient’s immediate family) before and aftei medical treatment to a limit of’ seven (7) days, at a maximum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per clay included in the seven (7) day limit are, il necessary, ’Two (2) nights in Prince George. (’1;One (1) going and one (I) returning).
65
(i)	“Sympathetic” consideration shall be given on an
individual basis to extend the seven (7) days maximum where the required treatment extends beyond this length of’ time. The criteria for this consideration shall be determined by the Joint Board of Trustees.
(ii)	Fare allowance for transportation to and from the hospital or doctor’s office will be provided for up to a maximum of thirty-live dollars ($35.00) per medical travel trip, upon presentation of receipts.
(d)	Where an employee qual ifies for transportation under Section I (i)(a) above he may elect to use his own vehicle and receive the equivalent return bus fare from Prince George to the nearest locale in B.C. equipped to provide the required and recommended treatment. An employee receiving transportation assistance for travel beyond Prince George will be entitled to the flat rate of sixty dollars ($60.00) for the Mackenzie - Prince George return segment.
OUT OF PROVINCE TRAVEL PLAN
(e)	When in the opinion of the attending physician and attending specialist a medical procedure is required that is not available in B.C., and is one for which the Medical Services Plan of B.C. will accept financial responsibility, the cost of travel and accommodation to the limits specified below will be paid for by the Plan. Where the attending
66
physician specifics that an attendant is required, the travel and accommodation expenses for such person will be paid to the limit specified.
The maximum limit under any one claim will be the return economy airfare or equivalent for patient and attendant, plus accommodation expenses up t o a maximum o t one thousand five hundred dollars ($ 1,500). Receipts will be required.
This benefit will not stack on top of or duplicate existing provisions under local Medical Travel Benefit or government plans.
(11) TRAVEL TO PRINCE GEORGE
(a)	An employee will be entitled to the flat rate of sixty dollars ($60.00) for the Mackenzie -Prince George return segment.
(b)	Employees and or their registered dependants referred for treatment as outlined in (i)(a) to Prince George will be entitled lo the maximum accommodation allowance of forty dollars ($40.00) per day.
(c)	Referrals to Prince George for chiropractic and (by a dentist) for orthodontistry will be included as long as these services are not available in Mackenzie.
(d)	Referrals to Prince George for, Acupuncture,
67
Clinical Psychology, Speech Therapy and Physiotherapy will be included, as long as such treatment is covered by the Extended Health Benefit Plan and as long as these services are not available in Mackenzie.
(iii)	The premiums for this insurance will be paid by the Company.
DEFINITIONS
I.	Registered dependents shall be the same as defined under Medical Services Plan of B.C.
5.	It is agreed in the administration of the Mackenzie Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers Health and Welfare Plan that the membership in the plan of employees temporarily promoted to Supervisory or Staff positions, will continue during the period of such assignment and that they shall be entitled to all benefits provided under the Plan for this period.
6.	Enrollment in the medical, extended medical,
dental and vision care plans shall only be required of one (1) member of a married couple where both husband and wife are employees of Fletcher Challenge Canada Limited.
7.	As it is recognized that lire fighting is the moral responsibility of all employees, the Company will provide additional accidental death and dismemberment insurance in the amount of fifty
68
thousand ($50,000) for all employees only on claims arising from lire lighting activities including practises. Premiums will be paid by the Company.
8.	CHANGE IN BENEFITS
In the case of’ an employee who is on active claim arising from disability which occurred before a negotiated change in benefits and which continues thereafter, the said employee shall, as from the effective date of the negotiated change, be paid the changed weekly indemnity benefit, be cov-cl-ccl for the changed Group Term Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, and make the changed contributions.
9.	SURVIVING SPOUSE AND DEPENDENT COVERAGE
Where a surviving spouse and dependents of a deceased employee are not covered by such plans by reason of‘ their own employment, the Company shall extend the coverage under the Medical Services Plan, the Extended Health Benefit Plan and the Dental Plan for a period of three (3) months following the death.
69
SECTION XVI - PENSION PLAN
1.	BOARD OF TRUSTEES
A Board of Trustees will be comprised of two (2) members representing the Pulp, Paper and Woodworkers of Canada, Local No. 1 8 and two ^	(2) members representing the Company lo be
’ responsible for the administration of’ the plans I outlined in the Trust Document.
2.	BENEFITS
Pension benefits for active and retired participants who retire or have retired on pension directly from the bargaining unit under the PPWC WOOD PRODUCTS PENSION PLAN, will be as fol-
Effectivc July 1, 1992	>
Past Service Bcnelits - $38.0()/Month/Year ol Credited Service
Future Service Benefits - $38.00/Month/Year ol Credited Service	,
Effective July 1, 1993
Past Service Benefits - $40.00/Month/Year ol Credited Service
Future Service Benefits - $40.00/Month/Ycar of Credited Service
Effective July 1,199 I in order to fund the negotiated benefits the cost will be actuarially calculated and expressed in cents/hour, but will not be less than eighty (.80) cents/hour.
70
3.	FUNDING
Effective July 1, 1988 in order lo Fund the negotiated benefits, the costs will be actuarily calculated and expressed in cents/hour, but will not be less than sixty (.60) cents/hour; seventy (.70) cents/hour effective July 1, 1989; and eighty (.80) cents/hour effective July 1, 1990.	/
SECTION XVII - APPRENTICESHIP TRAIN-2 * * * * 7 ( ING PROGRAM
1.	The Parties agree to continue the established apprenticeship training programs, attached as Supplement No.2 to this agreement,for the following trades: electrician, heavy duty mechanic,sprinklcnnan-pipefitter, machinist, welder/stccl fabrication, millwright, carpenter, Idling room categories and painter, in conjunction with the Apprenticeship Branch of British Columbia Govcrumenl.
In the event it is declared a designated trade by the Provincial Government, the Parties agree to expand the program to include planer mill mechanics.
2.	Subject lo the conditions of this section as listed
below, it is agreed that the following completion
of the period of required training and upon
becoming certified, the journeyman shalt receive
the certified journeyman’s rale of pay. Conditions
under which the above will apply:
71
(a)	That he is working in the maintenance department.
(b)	That all work normally done by the maintenance department is being performed by the persons employed in the maintenance department.
(c)	That nothing in this clause shall prohibit the laying-off of journeymen or apprentices il they arc not required.
(d)	That a journeyman may when facing lay-off, choose to exercise his seniority into categories outside of the maintenance area at the job rate if his seniority and ability entitle him to do so.
SECTION XVIII - JOB SECURITY
1.	OBJECTIVE
The Company and Union recognize that technological change, while necessary to the industry, may have an impact on employees. It is the purpose ol the following provisions to assist employees in adjusting to the effects of such change.
2.	DEFINITION
Technological change, which term shall include automation, mechanisation, and process change, means the introduction of equipment or material of a different nature or kind than that previously utilized, or a change in the operation that is directly related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
72
3.	REQUIRED NOTICE
The Company will advise the Union as soon as possible; and in any case not less than one hundred and eighty (I 80) days before the introduction of, mechanization, technological changes and/or automation which the Company has decided to introduce and which will result in terminations 01 other significant changes in the employment status of individual employees.
The Company will advise (he Union as soon as possible, and in any case not less than thirty (30) days before the expected date of the change, of the anticipated time sequence of final installation and production start-up and the anticipated effect on the job status of individual employees.
4.	SENIORITY STATUS
(a)	In the event that it is necessary, crews will be reduced in accordance with SECTION VII -SENIORITY, of the Agreement.
(b)
4/.
y

An employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of mechanization, technological change or automation will receive the rate of his regular job at the time of the set-back for a period of six (6) months, and for a further period of six (6) months he will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his regular job at the time of the set-back and the rate of his new regular job. At the end of this twelve (12) month period,
73
the rate of his new regular job will apply.
However, such employee will have the option of terminating his employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in S(a) below, provided he exercises this option within the six (6) month period referred to above.
(c) If through the application of SECTION VII -SENIORITY the employee moves to an ecjual or higher rated job because of mechanization, technological change or automation, he will have the option of terminating his employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section S(a) below, provided he exercises his option within six (6) months of starting on the job.
5.	SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
(a) An employee with one or more years of con-,q /) t tinuous service for whom no job is available because of mechanization, technological change or automation will, upon termination, receive a severance allowance calculated by one of the two following methods, it being the choice of the affected employee as to which of such methods of calculation is used:
(i) One week’s pay for each year of employ-^ ment during his last period of continuous /j,j / 'A service, computed on the basis of forty ' '	(40) straight time hours at the employ-
ee’s regular rate, the maximum severance
74

r*>
cJ
allowance payable king thirty (30) weeks pay.
(ii)	Two percent (2%) of his total earnings for the last period of continuous service, the maximum severance allowance payable being an amount equal lo one thousand two hundred ( 1,200) hours at the employee’s regular rate. At the time of separation, the employee shall have the option of receiving his severance allowance on termination, or he may elect lo have his severance allowance held in abeyance for up to one (I) ycat from the dale of termination. He may apply in writing at any time during the year, al which time his full severance allowance will be paid forthwith.
No payment will be made under this section in cases where the employee has already qualified under SECTION XIX -JOB ELIMINATION.
(b)	Such employees for whom no employment is available will be given at least thirty (30) days notice of separation.
6.	TRAINING
. The Company agrees to participate in a program w of’ training or retraining for another job within the ^/v) operation for those employees who are displaced under the circumstances set forth herein.
75
SECTION XIX - JOB ELIMINATION
1.	DEFINITION
Job elimination means permanent loss of employment as the result of Company decisions to eliminate positions, excluding those in No.2 below.
2.	EXCLUSIONS
No payment will be made under No.5 in cases:
(a)	of curtailments of a temporary, seasonal or indefinite duration which includes those caused by market or economic conditions.
(b)	of employees hired for work of known or temporary duration.
(c)	where the employee has already qualified
under technological change.
\
3.	NOTICE
tj/^/The Company will advise the Standing Committee at least thirty (30) days prior to such job elimination. Crew reduction will be in accordance with SECTION VII - SENIORITY.
4.	ELIMINATION OPTIONS
An employee who qualifies under No. 1 above may elect one of the following options:
(1) Recall and seniority retention as per SECTION VII - SENIORITY.
76
or
(2)	Severance allowance as per No.5 below.
Such employee must elect his option within thirty (30) days of notification that his loss of employment is permanent. If Option (2) is selected, the employee will be deemed to have terminated effective the last day worked. Where a temporary curtailment becomes permanent, severance eligibility will be determined by the status of the employee at the time of the temporary curtailment.
5.	SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
Severance allowance will be calculated by one oi the two following methods, it being the choice of the affected employee as to which such methods of calculation is used:
(i)	One week’s pay for each year of employment
during his last period of continuous service, computed on the basis of forty (40) straight time hours at the employee’s regular rate, the maximum severance allowance payable being thirty (30) weeks’ pay.
(ii)	Two percent (2%) of his total earnings for the last period of continuous service, the maximum severance allowance payable being an amount equal to one thousand two hundred (1,200) hours at the employee’s regular rate.
(iii)	When weeks of severance pay combined with the termination date carries into the following year the employee has the option to have the
77
severance pay payable in the following year.
The severance allowance will not be more than the employee would normally receive if he remained at work at forty (40) hours per week to his normal retirement date.
At the time of separation, the employee shall have the option of receiving his severance allowance on termination, or he may elect to have his severance allowance held in abeyance for up to one (1) year from the date of termination. He may apply in writing at any time during the year, at which time his full severance allowance will be paid forthwith.
SECTION XX - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
1. The Parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the 1st day of July, 1991 to the 30th day of June 1994t and thereafter, from year to year unless written notice as specified in the Labour Code of British Columbia Act (1979 Section 62) of contrary intention is given by the parties.
The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the Divisional Office in Mackenzie of the Party of the First Part or at the Local Office on the Local Officers of the Union, Party of the Second Part. If no agreement is reached at the expiration of this contract and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall
78
remain in force up to the time that a subsequent Agreement is reached, or until negotiations arc discontinued by cither Party.
2.	The Parties hereto agree that the operation of Section 66(2) of the Labour Code of British Columbia Act 1979 is specifically excluded from operation in the Agreement.
79
Dated This 16th day of April 1993
foi
FLETCHER CHALLENGE CANADA LIMITED MACKENZIE WOOD PRODUCTS
Larry Borne
John Lyotiei
Roger Kru shell
for
PULP, PAPER AND WOODWORKERS OF CANADA, LOCAL NO. 18
Dave Seright
Wayne Kipkc
Ian Scott
80
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
Effective Jul 1/91
“A” MILL DEPARTMENT Group 1 - Job Categories:
Pit Control Barker Operator Barker/Trav. Saw Cut Off Saw Operator Cut Off Saw/Barker Operator
Group minimum	18.640
Step 1	18.730
Step 2	18.825
Step 3	18.925
Group maximum	19.020
Group 3 - Job Categories:	
End Stacker	
Chippers	
Unscramblers	
Transfer Patrol	
Group minimum	17.610
Step 1	17.715
Step 2	17.815
Group maximum	17.920
Effective Jul 1/93
19.490
19.580
19.675
19.775
19.870
18.460
18.565
18.665
18.770
Group 4 (not posted) - Job Categories:
Patrolman Bins Str ipPiler
Conveyor Chaser
Group rate	17.260	18.110
Effective
Jan J/94
19.740
19.830
19.925
20.025
20.120
18.710
18.815
18.915
19.020
18.360
81
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
Effective	Effective
Jul 1/91	Jul 1/93
Planer Group -Job Categories:
Unstacker
Bander
Dry End Stacker Tallyman
Group minimum	17.420	18.270
Step 1	17.585	18.435
Step 2	17.750	18.600
Group maximum	17.920	18.770
Grading Group - Job Categories:
Mill Grader
Trimmerman
Grader
Group minimum	18.420	19.270
Step 1	19.080	19.930
Group maximum	20.375	21.225
Not Grouped - Job Categories:
Sawyer	23.005	23.855
Crane Blocker	17.620	18.470
Cranes	19.470	20.320
Chargehand	19.860	20.710
Dry Chain Puller	17.370	18.220
Kiln Operator	19.020	19.870
#2 Chip-N-Saw	19.040	19.890
#1 Chip-N-Saw	19.250	20.100
Grader Trimmerman 20.375	21.225
Dip Tank	17.795	18.645
EdgerOptimizer	18.820	19.670
82
Effective
Jan 1/94
18.520
18.685
18.850
19.020
19.520
20.180
21.475
24.105
18.720
20.570
20.960
18.470
20.120
20.140
20.350
21.475
18.895
19.920
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
lilTcclive Jul 1/91
“B” MILL DEPARTMENT Group 1 - Job Categories:
Barker Operator Sorting Deck Operator
Groupminimum 18.640 Group maximum 19.020
Group 2 - Job Categories:
Barker Sweeps Waste Systems Operator Mini Cut-Off Saw Mini Barker
Group minimum	17.930
Step	1	18.100
Step	2	18.265
Groupmaximim	18.430
Group 3 - Job Categories:
Quad Sweeps Edger Feeder Edger Tailor Stacker Operator Reman Edger
Group minimum	17.380
Step	1	17.510
Step	2	17.650
Step	3	17.765
Group maximum	17.930
LilTcclive Jul 1/93
19.490
19.870
18.780
18.950
19.115
19.280
18.230
18.360
18.500
18.615
18.780
iificctivc
Jan l/94
19.740
20.120
19.030
19.200
19.365
19.530
18.480
18.610
18.750
18.865
19.030
83
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
Effective	Effective
Jul1/91	Jul 1/93
Group 4 (not posted) - Job Categories:
Slash Puller Strip Layer Stacker Unscrambler Chipper Helper
Group rate	17.260	18.110
Planer Group - Job Categories:
UnstackeOperator
Dry Stacker Operator
Group minimum	17.470	18.320
Group maximum	17.620	18.470
Grading Group - Job Categories:
#1 Trim #2 Trim Grader
Group minimum Step 1
Group maximum
Not Grouped - Job
Quad
Chip-N-Saw Kiln Operator Dry Chain Puller Chargehand Block Saw
84
18.420	19.270
19.080	19.930
20.375	21.225
Categories:
19.470	20.320
19.040	19.890
19.020	19.870
17.370	18.220
19.860	20.710
18.640	19.490
Effective
Jan 1 /94
18.360
18.570
18.720
19.520
20.180
21.475
20.570
20.140
20.120
18.470
20.960
19.740
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
KITcctive	iilfccl i vc
Jul 1/9 I	Jui 1 m
“C” MILL DEPARTMENT Group I - Job Categories:
Barker
Slasher Deck
Group minimum	18.640	19.490
Group maximum	19.020	19.870
Group 2 - Job Categories:
Trimmer/OptimizeOperator
Edger Operator
Group minimum	18.630	19.480
Group maximum	18.820	19.670
Group 3 - Job Categories:
Solid Stacker Operator Unscrambler Operator Patrolman Main Floor
Group minimum	17.610	18.460
Step 1	17.765	18.615
Group maximum	17.920	18.770
Group 4 (not posted) - Job Categories:
Strip Layer Patrolman Bins Cribs tacker Helper Planer Tower Watch Log Pit Patrol
Group rate	17.260	18.110
85
KHcctivc
Jan I/94
19.740
20.120
19.730
19.920
18.710
18.865
19.020
18.360
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
Effective	Effective
Jul 1/91	Jul 1/93
Planer Group - Job Categories:
Unstacker
Bander Dry Stacker Tallyman
Group minimum	17.425	18.275
Step 1	17.585	18.435
Step 2	17.765	18.615
Group maximum	17.920	18.770
Grading Group - Job Categories:
Mill Grader Trimmerman Grader
Group minimum	18.420
Step 1	19.080
Group max imum	20.375
Not Grouped - Job Categories:
Canter Twin	19.470
Chip-N-Saw	19.040
Chargehand	19.860
Crib Stacker	17.750
ByProductsAttendant17.360 Fork Lift	18.445
Kiln Operator	19.020
Dry Chain Puller	17.370
19.270
19.930
21.225
20.320
19.890
20.710
18.600
18.210
19.295
19.870
18.220
Effective
Jan 1/94
18.525
18.685
18.865
19.020
19.520
20.180
21.475
20.570
20.140
20.960
18.850
18.460
19.545
20.120
18.470
86
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
Effective	Effective	Effective
JuIi/91	Jul 1/93	Jan 1/94
LOGYARD DEPARTMENT
*Chargehand 19.860	20.710	20.960
(*while operating Letourneau or general equipment operator .25 cents above job rate)
Not Grouped Key Job Loading Machines:
Letourneau	20.375
Log Handling 19.470 Utility (clean up) 18.315 Chip Unloading 18.640 General Equipment Op . 19.725 Material Handling 18,255 Bucker	18.410
*Weighmaster 18.410 Tower Operator 17.360 Cable Puller	17.260
Tug Boat Operator 19.350 Dozer Boat Operator 18.565 BarkoOperator 19.725 Deck Hand	18.140
Chip Dump Swamperl7.745 Chip and Hog Truck Oper. 18.820 (with air ticket)
21.225
20.320
19.165
19.490
20.575 19.105
19.260
19.260 18.210 18.110 20.200 19.415
20.575 18.990 18.595 19.670
21.475
20.570
19.415
19.740
20.825 19.355
19.510
19.510 18.460 18.360 20.450 19.665
20.825 19.240 18.845 19.920
^effective on date of signing of this agreement, Tallyman becomes Weighmaster rate from 17.690 -18.410
87
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1.
Effective	Effective	Effective
Jul 1/9!	Jul 1/93	Jan 1/94
PLANERMAN’S DEPARTMENT
Planer Feeder (back-up-set-up-man trainee) (exam before becoming set-up man)
17.950	18.800
Set-up Man (6 mos.)	18.170	19.020
#2 Planerman
(12 mos.)	18.485	19.335
#1 Planerman
(12 mos.)	19.045	19.895
#1 Planerman (cert)	20.525	21.375
Planer Mill Mechanic	22.275	23.125
Planer Mill Mechanic	21.230	22.080
Relief
19.050
19.270
19.585
20.145
21.625
23.375
22.330
SHIPPING DEPARTMENT
Shipper	19.350
Fork Lift	18.445
Trackmobile	18.265
Brakeman	17.485
Flat Car Loader	17.545
20.200
19.295
19.115
18.335
18.395
20.450
19.545
19.365
18.585
18.645
“A” Mill Carloading - Piece Rates
Flat car with bulkheads 98.5/m	100.6/m	101.2/m
Flat car with no bulkheads
108.6/m	110.7/m	111.3/m
Center beam cars 38.3/m	38.3/m	38.3/m
88
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
Effective	Effective
.lullA) I	Jul 1/93
“C” Mill Carloading - Piece Rates
Fiat car with bulkheads 86.0/m	88.1/m
Flat car with no bulkheads 96.4/m	98,5/m
Center beam cars 38.3/m	38.3/m
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Electrician	22.275	23.125
Heavy Duty Mechanic 22.275	23.125
Machinist	22.275	23.125
Millwright	22.275	23.125
Sprinkler-Pipefittei22.275 23.125 Carpenter	22.275	23.125
Welder “A” and F1 101 or “A: and F1102	22.275	23.125
Painter
Chargehand premium
Apprentice Rates:
4th year Apprentice 3rd year Apprentice 2nd yApprentice 1st yApprentice
Oiler
Utility Man Filer Helper
Fire Protection /Mail Clerk #1 Grinderman Sparkwatcher (1 st 6 months) (after6mos.)
22.275	23.125
.39 cents per hour over
20.525	21.375
18.830	19.680
18.105	18.955
17.785	18.635
18.590	19.440
18.700	19.550
17.990	18.840
/18.620	/19.470
17.525	18.375
19.365	20.215
17.070	17.920
17.260	18.110
89
Effective
Janl /94
88.7/m
99.1/m
38.3/m
23.375
23.375
23.375
23.375
23.375
23.375
23.375
23.375
job rate.
21.625 19.930 19.205 18.885 1^.690 19.800 19.090 /19.720
18.625 20.465
18.170
18.360
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
Effective Jul 1/91
File Room Categories
Head Filer	23.815
Benchman	22.960
Circular Saw Filer 22.275 Saw Fitter	21.920
Effective Effective Jul 1/93	,1 an 1/94
24.665	24.915
23.810	24.060
23.125	23.375
22.770	23.020
Non Department - Job Categories
Labourer	17.070	17.920
“Janitor	17.070	17.920
“Clean Up	17.070	17.920
18.170	'H
18.170
18.170
** after one full year on the job, incumbents will receive an additional .17 cents/hour.
When an employee works in more than one job during a regular shift and performs the higher rated duties for more than tWO(2) hours, he will receive the higher rate
for the full shift
90
FIRST AID TICKET PREMIUM
Employees holding valid Industrial First Aid tickets who are not designated by the Company as Rebel First Aid Men shall receive five cents (.5 cents) per hour over their job rate for all hours worked. Such employees who are presently on the payroll who are receiving ;i ticket premium other than five cents (.5 cents) per hour will continue to receive that premium as long as they hold a valid Industrial First Aid Ticket.
GRADING TICKET PREMIUM
(a)	Employees in the following groups who hold valid Grading Tickets who are not required lo per-Corm a grading function shall receive a bonus oi live (.5) cents per hour over their job rate for all hours worked.
A Mill Group 2 - Planer Group B Mill Group 3 - Planer Group C Mill Group 2 - Planer Group A, B, C Mill Group 1 Plancrman
(b)	Employees in the grading groups shall receive the following bonus, it being understood that to continue to receive the bonus, employees will be required to renew their tickets every second year.
B Ticket - thirty (.30) ccnts/hour A Ticket - forty (.40) cents/houi
91
(c)	Employees in the grading groups who hold a valid grading ticket that has not been renewed in the above two (2) year period shall receive the following bonus.
B Ticket - ten (.10) cents/hour A Ticket - fifteen (. 15) cents/houi
(d)	All Lumber Graders shall attend upgrading classes as required. Lumber Graders who are required to attend upgrading classes (grading rule changes) shall receive their regular straight time rate for time spent in attending such classes.
92
/ <•/
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2 APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed by the Company as Apprentices in respect to the trades named in Article 11 herein.
ARTICLE II - TRADES
Length of Program
1.	Millwright
2.	Heavy Duty Mechanic
3.	Sprinklerman-Pipelittei
4.	Machinist
5.	Electrician
6.	Wclder/Steel Fabrication
7.	Carpenlei
8.	Paintci
9.	Filing Room Categories:
1.	Sawfitlei
2.	Circular Saw Filer (alter sawfitlcr)
3.	Benchman (after circular saw filer)
4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 3 years
2 years
1 year 1 year
Listing of the above trades does not imply an obligation on the part of the Company to employ journeymen or apprentices.
93
ARTICLE III - GENERAL PRINCIPLES
1.	Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
2.	Persons employed as Journeymen, who take the
Tradesmen Qualification Exam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
3.	The period of Apprenticeship Training will be as defined by the Apprenticeship Branch for each trade. The Apprentice will receive the Journeyman rate on successful completion of his Apprenticeship, on the understanding that he completes his full term of training. In the case of five year Apprentices, Article VI, 1 (e) will apply. If the Apprentice refuses to continue his training he will be removed from the program with no standing as a journeyman in his trade.
4.	Training syllabus for each trade to be designed to meet the requirements of the particular trade involved.
5.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in the Program.
6.	Under the Program, Apprentices will receive rates as per Supplement No.l of the Collective Agreement.
94
7.	Right to Continue:
Once started in the Program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he passes all of the prescribed tests and work is available to him.
8.	Training Time Entitlement:
Subject to the provisions herein, an employee who enters an Apprenticeship Training Program and who has had training in another Apprenticeship plan will be given recognition of such training time.
9.	On-the-Job Training:
The Company will ensure that the Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training.
10.	Vocational training will be conducted during day courses. Textbooks and study material will be made available when required.
11.	There will be no age limit for applicants.
12.	Journeyman Qualifications: Refer to SECTION XVII- APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM (2).
13.	If, as a result of a Provincial Government requirement, an employee who is awarded an Apprenticeship posting is required to take a preapprenticeship course prior to being allowed entry
95
into the Apprenticeship Program, the Company will pay for the cost of the course and course materials and will meet with the Union in an effort to reach a mutually agreeable solution to any other matters that result from the requirement for the above pre-apprenticeship course.
ARTICLE IV - JOINT UNION - MANAGEMENT APPRENTICESHIP COMMITTEE
1.	There will be a four (4) man committee estab-
lished to process applicants to be tested under the Voluntary Tradesmen’s Qualification, or who become indentured under Apprenticeship and Tradesmen’s Qualification Act. The Committee will also recommend what vocational training is necessary for persons indentured as Apprentices.
2.	This Committee will be comprised of an equal
number of Union and Management representatives not to exceed in total two (2) from each group. The purpose of this Committee will be to develop and supervise the procedures required to carry out the intent of the program as agreed to.
The Committee will carry out the following duties:
(a)	Establish in-plant training programs to support the training syllabus as developed by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour for each trade involved. Supervision of the established Program shall be the responsibility of the Joint Committee.
96
(b)	Scl standards for entry into the Apprenticeship Program that arc not inconsistent with the standards recommended by the Apprenticeship Blanch.
(e) Carry out periodic review of the training program at intervals of not more than three (3) months,
(d)	See that the required practical tests arc carried out in cooperation with the Apprenticeship Branch.
(e)	Joint Committee to review any case of lost time from the Program because of sickness, accident, etc. and to determine the amount ol additional time necessary if any, before an employee meets his requirements of time served.
ARTICLE V - ENTRY INTO PROGRAM - NEW APPRENTICES
Selection for entry into the Program will be made in the following manner.
1.	APPRENTICESHIP SELECTION PROGRAM
The Company and Union recognize the importance of a formal selection program. The purpose of this program is to select a qualified applicant to be indentured into a trade. It is agreed that Apprentices will be selected on the basis of the criteria listed Mow.
97
2.	EDUCATION
A candidate will only be considered for an Apprenticeship if he has documentary proof of his educational standards. Entrance to the program will in all cases be subject to the applicant meeting the standards required for acceptance by the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
3.	TESTS
There will be six (6) tests:
General Learning Test ‘“Mechanical Comprehension Parts or Blocks :!;!|;Shop Arithmetic Precision Wonderlic
Each test will be scaled, with the maximum being nine (9) points.
*Four (4) points must be obtained in Mechanical Comprehension before any applicant can qualify for an Apprenticeship.
An applicant must score acceptable (4 or more points each) on 3 of the 4 remaining tests, with **mandatory pass required in Shop Arithmetic.
98
Candidates wishing to retest, may do so. Candidates will be allowed to retest a third (3rd) and final lime upon providing documentary proof of upgrading.
The Company agrees to explain the test results to those employees who have written the tests, as a requirement, for entry into the Apprenticeship Program.
4.	SENIORITY
Apprentices will be selected on the basis of Wood Products Seniority. When the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of SECTION VII - SENIORITY of the agreement.
5.	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
An Apprentice will serve a probationary period of sixty (60) working days.
ARTICLE VI - SCHEDULE OF TRAINING FOR APPRENTICES
Upon completion of each period of training in an approved Vocational School, an Apprentice will be required to pass examinations set by the Apprenticeship Branch. These examinations shall be confined to the area of training received. In the event of failure to pass examinations, the Apprentice shall be required to undergo a period of retraining on subject material specified by the Apprenticeship Branch authorities and will be required to be re-examined
99
within twelve (12) months. Failure to pass the second examination will result in his removal from the program. Employees who arc removed from the program will go back to their last posted job in line with theii seniority.
1.	(a) Successful applicants will be assigned to a specific trade as a probationer for a sixty (60) working day period. “During the probationary period he shall receive a first yeai Apprenticeship rate.”
(b)	During each year of the Apprenticeship, he shall work at the trade and attend the Vocational School as required by the regulations pursuant to the Apprenticeship Act.
(c)	Upon the successful completion of his term oi Apprenticeship and receipt of his Certificate of Apprenticeship, issued by the Apprenticeship Committee, the apprentice shall be designated as a certified journeyman.
(d)	If any of the aforementioned work periods are exceeded due to the unavailability of Vocational School facilities, such extra time will be credited to apprentices in succeeding training requirements. Also, the apprentice’s rate shall be adjusted retroactively to the commencement of the scheduled year providing he successfully passed the examination. Retroactivity will not apply where a retesting is necessary.
100
(c) For trades exceeding four (4) years, the Following shall be in addition to the above. On successful completion of the fourth period ol training at the Vocational School, and having spent twelve (12) months as a fourth yeat Apprentice, he shall be reclassified and paid the tilth year Apprentice rate which is equivalent to the Journeyman rate for the following twelve ( 12) months. On completion of the final period at the Vocational School the fifth year Apprentice shall write his linal examination set by the Apprenticeship Branch and, upon becoming certified, shall be designated as a certified Journeyman.
(f) Wage rates for Apprentices shall be those specified in the Wage Supplement. An apprentice who passes his test and has completed his training requirement shall receive the appropriate increment specified in the Wage Supplement.
2.	Wherever reference is made to a year (or twelve months) as an Apprentice, it shall mean a period of not less than one thousand six hundred (1600) hours worked, the said period to include time spent at Vocational School.
ARTICLE VII - TEX I BOOKS
The Company will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the costs of textbooks specified by the Apprenticeship Branch. The Apprentice will keep these books as his personal property.
101
ARTICLE VIII - ALLOWANCES AND WAGE MAKE-UP
While attending an approved Vocational School, the Apprentice will receive from the Government, allowances and school expenses in accordance with the Government’s schedule of grants pertaining to Apprenticeship training. In addition, the employee shall receive from his employer, an allowance comprised of the difference between his regular straight time rate, based on a forty hour week, plus any weekly living allowance granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the government grants received.
2.	Where as a result of the Apprenticeship School schedule starting after Monday or ending before Friday and reasonable transportation schedules prevent the Apprentice from working the day before school starts or the day after school ends, the Company will make up the Apprentice’s wages for such day on the basis of eight (8) hours at the Apprentice’s regular straight time rate. The application of this provision will not result in an employee being paid more than forty (40) straight time hours in any one (1) week, including government grant. This provision will be for a maximum of one (1) day at the beginning, and one (1) day at the end of any one (1) school session.
ARTICLE IX / ON-THE- JOB TRAINING
1. The Company agrees to develop and provide a program of on-the-job training for each trade,
102
which shall include doing jobs of gradually increasing skills consistent with the Apprentice's training and ability.
2.	ON-THE-JOB TRAINING - FILERS
IL is agreed that upon being awarded the position of saw fitter the employees who wish to progress shall be trained up to and including the position of benchman without further postings.
When an employee is trained to the position ot henchman he shall fit into the line of progression at the appropriate rate.
To accomplish this it is understood that the apprentice will have to perform the work of circular saw filer and/or benchman. Other filing room personnel will have to perform the apprentices normal duties without loss of pay.
3.	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING OUT-OFTOWN EXPENSES
On successful completion of the required period of vocational school training, the Company will reimburse out-of-town expenses lo a maximum of ten dollars ($ 10.00) per school day attended to apprentices who qualify for the government living-out allowance.
It will be paid after the employee’s return to work and when verification of vocational school attendance is received from the appropriate agency.
103
ARTICLE X - TOOLS
1.	All journeyman tradesmen shall be required to
have, and shall not qualify for the journeyman rate, unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they arc hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the journeyman.
2.	Apprentices will be required to acquire and build a kit of tools progressively throughout the Program so that by the start of the third year, he shall have a basic tool kit for his trade. He shall continue the process of building up the necessary tools to equip himself on the job.
3.	(a) The Company shall, upon the signing of this
Agreement, at its expense, insure for damage or loss caused by lire or flood, the tools of its employees which at-c required lo be used in the performance of their work.
(b)	The Company shall, upon the signing of this Agreement, at its expense, insure the tools of its employees which are required to be used in the performance of their work, for loss by theft where tools arc stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of fifty dollars ($50.00) in respect of each employee’s claim.
104
4.	The Company will repair or replace tools damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties.
5.	During introduction of the metric system, the
Company will have those metric tools that arc necessary available for use by tradesmen.
105
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3
EMPLOYEE ADVANCEMENT AND JOB GROUPING
SECTION A INTRODUCTION
1.	Both parties recognize that it is the intent of the Agreement to have a procedure for the advancement of employees that is in accordance with Section VII of the Labour Agreement and to have a system of job grouping and job rotation in related work units.
2.	The following will be considered departments for seniority purposes:
A Mill Department B Mill Department C Mill Department Logyard Department Shipping Department Maintenance Department Planerman’s Department
3.	(a) The department seniority date of each
employee shall be his Wood Products Seniority date and shall become effective the date of his first job training posting in a particular department.
(b) Where an employee is transferring from one 106
department to another he shall establish his new department seniority date as in (a) above. Upon accepting the posting, he shall forfeit all seniority rights in his previous department For posting purposes. Upon accepting an incumbents position or a second training position he shall forfeit all seniority rights in his previous department.
(c)	Where an employee declines a relief position, withdraws from training or is removed from training on his first posting within a particulai department, he shall forfeit his seniority rights in that department. In the case of an employee transferring from one department to another, seniority rights in his original department will be regained.
4.	DEFINITIONS
Trainee: an individual who has been accepted on a posted training position or a job group training position.
Relief Operator: an individual who has been trained on a key job or a position in a job group but who has not filled a permanent vacancy.
Incumbent: an individual who fills a permanent vacancy.
Job Group: a work unit of several related jobs
Key Job: a job subject to job posting that is not included in a job group.
107
5.	The following jobs will not be covered by the posting and training procedures hereinafter described:
Clean Up Labourer Janitor
Conveyor Chaser Patrolman Bins Strip Piler Dry Chain Puller Slash Puller Strip Layer Stacker Unscrambler Chipper Helper Cribstacker Helper Tower Patrol Log Pit Patrol Cable Puller By Products Attendant Sparkwatcher
f
SECTION B
POSTING PROCEDURES
l.	The following positions shall be posted on the bulletin boards for at least two (2) working days:
(a)	Key Job Trainee Vacancies
(b)	Group 1 and 2 Trainee Vacancies
(i)	or any Group Vacancy not tilled with an employee with department seniority
108
(c)	Group 3 Incumbent Vacancies
(d)	Planer Group Incumbent Vacancies
(c)	Journeyman Tradesman, Planerman Mechanics, Filing Room Categories
(0 Apprenticeships
(g)	Planer Feeder (Back-up, Set-up Man Trainee)
(h)	Graders
(i)	Current posted categories and non-posted will
remain the same
2.	To make application, an employee must sign the
posting notice at the ‘A’ Mill Entrance prior to the expiry date and time shown on the postings.
3.	An employee on vacation, absent on an approved leave of absence, illness, accident or lay-off at the time of’ the Job Posting will be allowed to make application the day of his return or the following working day, but in no event later than fifteen (I 5) working days from the closing off time of such new job or vacancy.
4.	Notwithstanding I above, notices will remain posted for five (5) days to ensure they may be seen by workers on a compressed schedule. Such workers may make application at the Human Resources Department up to seventy-two (72) hours after the expiry date and time shown on the postings.
109
5.	Selection of applicants shall be based on Department Seniority first and Wood Products Seniority second, subject to SECTION VII -SENIORITY (2) of the Labour Agreement, any ineligibilities and the following special agreements:
(a) GRADING JOB POSTINGS
(i)	Grading group vacancy will be filled first by the senior employee in the department with a valid grading ticket.
(ii)	Secondly, will be awarded to the senior Wood Products department employee holding a valid grading ticket.
(iii)	Third preference will be given to the senior employee in the department who has taken the examination and attended at least fifty (50%) of the grading classes.
(iv)	Fourth preference will be given to the senior employee with Wood Products seniority who has taken the examination and attended at least fifty (50%) of the grading class.
(v)	If the vacancy has not been filled by the above (a-i-iv) then the vacancy will be awarded to the employee with the most department seniority first and Wood Products seniority second.
(vi)	An employee who is awarded a grading posting must attend grading classes annually until a grading ticket is obtained.
110
(b) LETOURNEAU AND BARKO 850
TRAINING POSTINGS
Letourneau and Barko 850 trainees must spend or have spent six (6) months performing log handling duties, of which three (3) weeks must have been spent in the Logyard, before any “on the job” Letourneau training takes place.
6.	Future chargchand positions will be posted
according to the applicable parts of Supplement No.3. Selection will be based on aptitude testing, leadership and communications skills, knowledge of tire sawmill process and an ability to effectively train and relate to other employees. Where two (2) or more applicants arc of relatively equal ability the senior applicant will be selected.
7.	(a) The Company shall as early as possible, but
not later then ten (10) days from the closing off time of the posting, notify the successful applicant of his selection and post the original posting notice indicating who has been selected. It shall remain posted for not less than forty-eight (48) hours.
(b) The names of applicants for posted jobs and the successful applicant will be forwarded to the Union.
8.	A posting shall remain current for fourteen (14)
days. If a final award has not been made within this period, the position shall be reposted.
III
9.	The Company reserves the right to hire an employee to fill a vacancy when the job posting procedure does not produce a qualified applicant.
10.	The Company shall have up to thirty (30) days to select apprentices or Planer Feeder (Back-up, Setup Man Trainee).
11.	When the posting system does not provide a qualified applicant, the Company shall have the right to hire journeyman tradesmen and planer mechanics.
12.	For the purpose of bidding, Flat Car Loaders shall be considered as being at the highest rate.
13.	When an employee is declared a relief operator he shall not be permitted to decline the position for a period of six (6) months.
14.	When a job becomes vacant, the relief operator with the most Department Seniority, shall fill the vacancy.
SECTION C JOB G R O U P S
1.	The parties agree to have job groups as outlined in the wage supplement. Entry into a posted job group will be according to SECTION B - POSTING PROCEDURE.
2'. Upon being awarded a training position in a job group, an employee may be required to relocate
112
on an unposted job or job group, at his training rate, in order to provide relief in his new job group.
3.	Upon being awarded a group posting or a group vacancy, an employee will be trained to carry out the duties of one (I) job within the group. When time permits, the senior untrained relief operatoi will he trained on additional jobs in the group. The procedure for ensuring employees in a Job Group arc competent on all jobs in the Job Group will be as follows:
(a)	An employee who has reached the expected level of operating competence will be trained on a second job.
(b)	When the process described in (a) above is completed on a second job, he will commence training on a third. This procedure will be repeated for subsequenl jobs until the employee has mastered all the jobs in his group.
4.	When an employee advances into a job group he will he required to perform each job in his job group on a rotation basis and the rotation period shtill be determined by the employees affected, subject to the agreement of their foreman. Job rotation will not take place when all the employees in the group do not wish to rotate, but the employees will he paid the rate as it’ rotating.
Skill levels as per 6. must be maintained.
113
5.	Once an employee participates in job rotation, he may only withdraw from the rotation with a valid medical or similar reason, His rate will then be determined by SECTION C - JOB GROUPS (6).
6.	When an employee has been trained for and is
competent to perform in one (1) job category in the group, he will be paid the minimum rate for the group. When he has been trained and is competent to perform in another category in the group and in fact is performing that job, he will be paid the next highest rate in his group and so on for each additional job category in his group. When he has been trained for and is competent to perform all the jobs in the group, he shall be paid the maximum rate in his group.
7.	IS an employee has been declared incompetent on any two (2) jobs in a job group, he will be required to withdraw from that job group and return to his former job or group. (NOTE: see ineligibilities that apply.)
When a job group exists where there is only two (2) jobs in the group, the operator must be competent on both jobs.
8.	On the inception date of Job Groups, all employees in jobs which are part of job group will be required to declare themselves a participant in rotation or not. Employees who do not elect to participate will be red circled on their present job. They may, however, elect to participate in the future.
114
9.	The parties agree that the rates set out will be paid only as long as the system of job groups and job rotation is in effect. The existing wage scale will be preserved in the event that the Parties wish to revert from the job group system at some future time. This wage scale forms Supplement No.5 to the 1974 Labour Agreement.
SECTION D TRAINING
1.	Payment for training time will be the lowest rate of the following:
(i)	His present rate
(ii)	The Job Group Minimum
(iii)	The rate of the new job if a key job
2.	The Company will arrange for training to commence within thirty (30) days of an employee being awarded a posting. Exceptions will be reviewed with the Union at Standing Committee.
3.	The Company shall determine whether or not an individual who is training can successfully qualify as competent on the job for which he is being trained. If an individual who is training is required an excessive amount of time to train ot owing to lack of skills or understanding impedes production or endangers equipment, he may be removed at any time during training.
115
4.	If an individual who is training is declared incompetent and is removed from a training position he may invoke his rights under SECTION XIII-GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (1.) of the Labour Agreement.
5.	The Company shall have the right to determine the number of trainees required.
6.	The Company shall select a qualified person to provide the training with due regard to his ability to communicate effectively.
SECTION E INELIGIBILITY
1.	The intent of Job Posting and Job Training is to identify and prepare employees for advancement. (An employee who is an incumbent must post up from that incumbency. Employees who do not hold an incumbents position must post up from the rate normally received excluding relief position.) Therefore, no employee may post to a job at an equal or lower maximum except where:
(a)	He must do so to change departments.
(b)	He has an approved medical reason.
(c)	He has been on his last incumbent job for more than one (1) year.
2.	No employee shall be permitted to hold more than two (2) training positions at the same time, and
116
where two training positions arc held they must be in the same department.
No employee shall be permitted to hold more than two (2) training positions within it twelve (12) month period.
3.	An employee will not be eligible for another posting for sixty (60) days after being awarded a posting.
4.	If a trainee or relief operator declines or with-
draws from it training position or relief position, he will be ineligible to bid on any posting for sixty (60) days.
5.	If an employee has been declared incompetent
and is removed from a key job, job group, relief operator or trainee position:
(a)	He can no longer bid for that trainee position for a period of twelve (12) months.
(b)	No ineligible period shall apply.
(c)	He will have only one (1) additional opportunity to successfully train for this job or job group.
6.	An employee who declines a training position after accepting the posting may not repost for that position for a period of twelve (1 2) months.
From July I st, 1988 he will have only one (I) 117
additional opportunity to successfully train for this job or job group.
This clause is for posting purposes only and shall not restrict an employee’s rights under SECTION VII - SENIORITY, SECTION XVIII - JOB SECURITY and SECTION XIX -JOB ELIMINATION.
7.	Apprenticeship job postings shall not be open to bidding by apprentices. Similarly, no apprentice may withdraw from an apprenticeship in order to bid on another apprenticeship vacancy.
The foregoing is only intended to restrict an apprentice’s bidding rights, not his right to withdraw during the probationary period.
8.	Ineligibilities will be waived on all apprentice-
ship or planerman’s department postings.
SECTION F
SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
1.	Tower Operators - Dewatering Agreement
(a)	The Company shall only be required to post the Tower Operator positions at the beginning of the season.
(b)	Upon the close of seasonal Tower operator jobs, the person shall return to his last posted job and retain his seniority as if he never left that department.
118
(c)	An employee will not accumulate Logyard Seniority unless the successful applicant bids horn the Logyard Department.
2.	Weighmasici
(a) Logyard seniority will apply as in 1 (c) above.
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: LOGYARD DEPARTMENT DEWATERING
Employees who have posted on a “Dewatering” position will be allowed to hold a maximum of three (3) positions.
I Departmental Incumbency
2.	“Dewatering Incumbency”
3.	Relief Operator/Trainee positions
A person is allowed to hold two (2) trainee positions at one time, however, a “Dewatering Incumbency” will count as one of these positions. At the end of the season, the employee will return to the Departmental Incumbency.
(a)	At the end of the Dewatering season a “Dewatering Incumbency” will not result in an employee receiving Lay-off’ Incumbency status as per Section VII.
(b)	An employee will not accumulate Logyard Seniority unless the successful applicant bids from the Logyard Department.
119
1.	Employees holding a “Dewatering Incumbency”
will fill the position for the Dewatering season.
Employees who exercise their Seniority and post to a different position during Dewatering season would forfeit their “Dewatering Incumbency”.
2.	Prior to the beginning of the Dewatering season, “Dewatering Incumbents” will be notified sixty (60) days in advance and if they choose to withdraw from the “Dewatering Incumbency” must do so thirty (30) days prior to Dewatering start up.
3.	The “Dewatering Incumbent” positions arc:
(a)	1 - Tugboat Operatoi
(b)	l - Deck Hand
(c)	2 - Dozer Boat Operators
RE: TRANSPORTATION
It is the responsibility of each employee to arrange his own transportation to and from the mill site.
If an employee is held over on overtime and, as a result, does not have transportation home, the Company will arrange transportation between the millsite and the town of Mackenzie.
120
September 1 st, 1972,
RE: PAY DAYS
The Company confirms its commitment to continue its present practice of issuing pay cheques to afternoon shift employees on the day prior to the rcgulai pay days at the times posted by the Company. It is understood by the Union that in sonic circumstances this may not be possible and, in such case, cheques will be issued on the regular pay day.
September 1 st, i 972.
RE: PLANERMEN
The purpose of the Agreement is to establish a training progression for Planermen leading to the position of Planer Mill Mechanic and further to establish rates of pay and entry criteria for the program.
The parties to this memorandum agree to the following:
1.	The following Plancrman Progression will be established;
Planer Feeder Back-Up Set-Up Man Trainee :|:Exam before becoming Set-Up Man
Set-Up Man #2 Planerman #1 Planerman
6 months 12 months 12 months
Exam on All Planer Equipment Maintenance
#1 Planerman (Certified)
Planer Mill Mechanic (Not in Progression) Planer Mill Mechanic (Relief)
121
2.	The position of Planer Feeder Rack-Up Set-Up
Man Trainee will be posted using Wood Products Seniority. Applicants must successfully complete aptitude testing.
3.	When there is an opening in the planerman pro-
gression the Senior Planer Feeder who has passed the Set-Up-Man Trainee exam will become the Set-Up-Man. Progression, providing a passing mark is attained on the Planer exam, will be automatic from Set-Up-Man to the level of #1 Planerman Certified. Employees in the planer-man department shall receive at a minimum their progression rate.
4.	Progression to planer mechanic will be based on successful completion of the planer mill exam and a position being open. Progression to a #1 Planerman (certified) will only require successful completion of the exam.
5.	There will be only one (1) planer mill mechanic per shift. Where there is no qualified planer mill mechanic, (#1 Planerman Certified), the planer mill mechanic’s (relief) rate will be paid to the Planerman’s Department employees in charge of the shift.
6.	Relief for planer mill mechanics is normally provided by the senior qualified employee in the Planerman’s Department Progression. Exceptions whereby relief may he provided from within the mill progression not exceeding one week are;
122
short term absences, sickness and vacations.
7.	An on-the-job training program will be established to ensure each Planerman is adequately trained.
8.	It is recognized by the Company and the Union that the purpose of the program is to train fully qualified Planer Mill Mechanics and that such training in itself will not qualify employees as millwrights,
9.	It is understood that personnel in the Planer Feeder Back-Up Set-Up Man Trainee position and personnel in the Planer Progression are responsible for the mechanical maintenance of all Planer Mill equipment and will assist with the flow of product and by-products in emergent situations. An emergent situation for the purpose ol this Agreement, is defined as a interruption of production. Occasions where relief of an operator by a Planerman is required will be temporary in nature and every effort will be made to bring in personnel so as Lo allow planermen lo perform their duties as expected in accordance with the Planer Maintenance Agreement.
10.	A Planermcn’s Department will be established and added to Supplement #1 of the Labour Agreement. Postings for Planer Feeder Back-Up Set-Up Man Trainee will be awarded as in #2 above based on Wood Products Seniority.
123
Jun 21st, 1974 Aug 23rd, 1974 amended Aug 30th, 1975 amended Nov 1977 amended Aug 29th, 1983 amended Dec 5th, 1986 amended
RE: COVERALLS
1.	The Company will supply Tradesmen, Filers,
Planermen, Oilers, and Sparkwatchers with coveralls as follows:
(a)	Heavy Duty Mechanics.....four (4) pair/year
(b)	Millwrights, Planermen,Oilers, Welders,
Painters ................three(3) pair/year
(c)	Electricians,Filers, Sprinklerfitters,
Sparkwatchers............two (2) pair/year
Coveralls will be replaced when worn out, but, except where unusual circumstances exist, not more than once per year.
2.	All coverall issues will require the approval of
the supervisor. Coveralls will be signed for and terminating employees or those transferring to a non-coverall job will be required to return them oi pay (pro-rata) their value.
3.	Employees will be responsible for their own
cleaning arrangements. The Company will pay for minor repairs and three (3) cleanings per week for employees in category A, and twice per week
124
for category B and C al a dry cleaners seiceted by the Company.
4.	A supply of paper coveralls will be kept in the various mill departments and issued to employees when required for unusually dirty jobs.
RE: WELDING TICKET RENEWAL
As a result of changes in Welder’s ticket qualification, the ticket requirement for Journeymen Welders will be an “A” ticket plus the ability to qualify for ail Fr 101 or FI 102 ticket. Welders who are on the Company’s payroll as of June 2 1 st, 1984 and who arc receiving the Journeyman Welder’s rate will continue to receive the Journeyman rate while employed as Welders, at Fletcher CHallcngc Canada Mackenzie Wood Products.
When a Welder is required or wishes to upgrade and is unable to do so on site, the Company will grant him up to two (2) days to take the necessary exam. When the exam cannot be taken on site and the welder must travel to Prince George, the Company will pay up to forty dollars ($40.00)/day for expenses for a maximum of two (2) days. Lost wages at eight (8) hours/day al his regular straight time rate.
June 2 1st, 1984
RE: MINIMUM GUARANTEE - CALL TIME
I.	If an employee works Monday to Friday, has worked forty (40) hours, and is called in on Saturday, the employee is entitled to the greater ol
125
four (4) hours at straight time or time and a half for all hours worked.
For example:
(a)	Employee worked only fifteen (15) minutes when called in, he is entitled to four (4) hours straight time.
(b)	If an employee worked three (3) hours, he is entitled to four and one-half (4 1/2).
2.	If an employee works Monday to Friday or ^ Tuesday to Saturday and has completed forty (40) ' '"hours of work and is called in Sunday, he is enti-
tled to the greater of four (4) hours straight time
or double time for all hours worked.
For example:
(a)	If an employee works fifteen (15) minutes on Sunday, he is entitled to four (4) hours at straight time.
(b)	If he worked two (2) hours, he would be entitled to four (4) hours at straight time.
(c)	If an employee worked three (3) hours, he would receive six (6) hours at straight time.
3.	For the purpose of calculating minimum guarantee, it will be defined as being called in from off the site. However, if someone has to come in to make a kiln change on a Sunday, the minimum
126
guarantee of four (4) hours straight time wilt apply, even if it has been arranged previously.
September, 1979
RE: REHIRING
When hiring new Employees, preference will be given to laid off former employees of Flctchei Challenge Canada Mackenzie Wood Products in order of their previous Wood Products Mitt seniority, providing:
(a)	their recall rights under SECTION VII -SENIORITY (6.) has expired;
(b)	they have a current application on file;
(c)	they have the qualifications and the ability to perform the work property;
(d)	they can be contacted at the location indicated on their current application and arc available to report to work as required by the Company within a reasonable period of time. Applications must be made within thirty (30) days of the expiry of recall rights and wilt remain in effect for three
(3)	months unless renewed in person or in writing. A former employee will no longer have preference if he fails to accept an offered position. The Company will consider extenuating circumstances. Those hired under this Letter of Understanding wilt be new employees.
June 21st, 1984
July 17th, 1986 Amended
127
RE: CAR WASH TICKETS
Car wash tickets will be issued to every regular employee on the following basis:
(i)	1 st regular pay period of month - one (I) ticket
(ii)	2nd regular pay period of month - two (2) tickets
This will only apply during the winter months while the Company car wash is inoperative.
Tickets will only be issued to those employees who worked during the pay period and will not be redeemed for cash. Tickets will be valid until October 1 st following the winter in which they were issued.
New tickets will be issued one (1) month prior to the expiry date of the old.
July 7th, 198 1 July 17th, 1986 July 17th, 199 1
HE: CREDIT TIME FOR APPRENTICES
(a)	It is understood that a person will be given up to six (6) months credit at the beginning of his Apprenticeship for time spent as a Utility man in the garage or as an Oiler. This will aPPiy to eithei the Heavy Duty Mechanic or Millwright Apprenticeship.
(b)	A person who has taken pre-apprenticeship training will be given up to six (6) months credit at the
128
beginning of his Apprenticeship providing the pre-apprenticeship training relates directly to the Apprenticeship.
(e)	A person may be given up to six (6) months credit lor work experience closely related to the trade.
(cl) In no event shall an employee receive more than
six (6) months credit from (a),(b), and (c) above. July 7th, 1981
RE: EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE COMMITTEE
The Company and the Union will jointly participate in an Employee Assistance Committee comprised of four members. Members of the Committee shall be designated to equal number by the Employees and the Company.
July 29th, 1983
RE: PRE-APPRENTICESHIP LEAVE OF ABSENCE
The parties agree that where an employee qual ifies for Leave of Absence under SECTION VIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE 3(d.) the Company will extend the Leave of Absence up to a total of ten (10) months where the employee is taking a pre-apprenticeship course under the auspices of the British Columbia Apprenticeship Branch subject to the following:
April 21st, 1992
't
129
1.	The Leave of Absence will not extend for more
than the length of the course.
2.	The course must be in a trade identified in
Supplement No,2.
3.	The employee must have successfully passed the selection tests as outlined in Supplement No.2.
July 8th, 198 1
RE: AIR TICKETS
If air tickets arc required by Employees in order that they may qualify to operate mobile equipment, the Company will make every effort to ensure that Air Ticket courses are available in Mackenzie so that the above Employees can qualify to operate the equipment. Appropriate paid leave of absence will be granted to Employees required to take the exam during working hours. Failure to hold a valid Air Ticket will not prevent an Employee from being awarded a mobile equipment posting.
July 21st, 1984 June 12 th, 1986
RE: CONTRACTING
(a)	The Company will not contract out work that , would result in the lay off or termination of any
/ \ regular maintenance department employee.
(b)	The Company is committed to retaining as employees a maintenance workforce consistent with providing normal maintenance of plants and
130
equipment.
(c)	The Company agrees to recognize the Local’s Contraeting Out Committee and to provide it with reasonable notice of the Company’s intent to have contractors on site. While it is understood that only limited notice may be possible for repaii work, a minimum of fourteen (14) clays notice will be given on project work.
December 8, 1986
RE: PRODUCTION POSITION
1.	The purpose of this section is to provide protec-
tion for production positions as outlined below. This section is not intended to affect current and past arrangements where the Company has employed contractors.
2.	Effective the dale of signing of this agreement the Company agrees not to introduce contractors which would result in the loss of positions held by employees as of the above date.
3.	The parties agree that there may be reasonable exceptions to clause two (2) above. Such cases will be reviewed with the Union where practical at least one month prior to implementation.
If agreement is not reached the action wilt be subject to review by an umpire at the request of the Union.
In making his decision the umpire should weigh 131
economic and/or operating benefits to the Company against the impact of the change on the bargaining unit and affected employees.
4.	The Company agrees not to make repetitive use
of the exception language in order, over the course of time, to convert an employee work force to a contractor work force.
5.	The Umpire will be selected by mutual agreement within 60 days of the ratification of the agreement. If the Parties fail to agree within the above time they will request the Minister of Labour to appoint the Umpire.
December 7th, 1986
RE: TRADES GUIDELINES AND DEMARCATION
The Company and the Union recognize the principle of tradelines and job demarcation as practiced in the mills prior to July 1,1986 for purposes of interpreting the Trades Flexibility Section outlined below.
Trades Flexibility
1.	Tradesmen may be assigned work in other than
their own trade under the guidance of a qualified hourly tradesman in the trade in which the work is being performed.
2.	Tradesmen may be assigned work in trades other than their own consistent with the tradesman’s ability, keeping safety factors in mind.
132
3.	Tradesmen may be required to lake on-site train-
ing fur duties that are normal ly performed by other trades.
(a)	The objective is to provide training to develop skills so that trades people can assist in othet trades and not to eliminate other trades 01 tradesmen.
(b)	Apprenticeships will be distributed as stipulated otherwise in the Contract.
4.	The traditional division of work between production and maintenance is not altered by the above agreement. Employees of either department will not be assigned work that would have the effect of displacing employees of the other department.
It is understood that there must be co-operation between maintenance and production to furthci the efficient operation of the mills. Production employees may be assigned to assist tradesmen as labourers and maintenance personnel may rim production equipment for maintenance purposes.
RE: TRADES ATTRITION The following is subject to the Union and Employees of Fletcher Challenge Canada Limited Mackenzie Wood Products accepting both the letter and intent ol the Trades Flexibility Agreement as concluded by the Company and the Union June 27th, 1986.
The parties recognize that with the implementation ol
Trades Flexibility in the mills the opportunity to reduce the crew complement in the Maintenance Department will exist.
The Company therefore agrees that any crew reductions in the Maintenance Department resulting from the implementation and utilization of Trades Flexibility will be accomplished by attrition and that no Maintenance Department Employee will lose his job in the Maintenance Department as a result of the above.
For the term of the agreement, the Company shall employ all reasonable means to maintain a minimum Maintenance work force of ninety-five (95) tradesmen and apprentices. This shall include no less than thirteen (13) electrical personnel, forty-two (42) in millwrighting and/or welding, six (6) mechanics, four
(4)	carpenters and/or painters, three (3) in sprinkler fitting and twenty (20) in saw filing.
This shall not limit the right of the Company to reduce maintenance department crews in conjunction with any other department(s) curtailments or cutbacks or to dismiss for cause.
It is understood that if maintenance department crews are reduced as a result of any other departments curtailment or cutback, when and if that department returns to its former level of operation those maintenance department employees affected by the curtailment or cutback will be returned to the maintenance department complement.
134
The parties agree that the closure of ‘B’ Mill will result in a reduction of the maintenance work force by one-third (1/3). Specifically: total trades complement will be reduced from ninety-live (95) to sixty-three (63). This reduction is reflected throughout all listed trades.
Amended March 17th, 1993
RE: TEMPORARY SUMMER STUDENTS
Students hired for temporary vacation relief in the plant will only appear on plant seniority lists as a separate entry entitled, vacation relicf-Students.
If during the students term of employment as a vacation relief he applies for permanent employment, his application must be directed personally to the Human Resources Manager.
Such applicants will be considered for permanent work providing they meet normal mill standards of entry.
Upon satisfactory meeting of entrance standards, the applicant will be placed in job openings as they arise and will only begin to acquire plant seniority upon commencement of permanent work.
RE: ALTERNATE THREE (3) DAY SHIFT SCHEDULE
The parties recognize that at times when the sawmills are on three (3) shifts of production, the maintenance time is reduced significantly. It is therefore agreed that at such times the sawmills are operating production on a three (3) shift basis, the number of trades (volunteers or scheduled) will be increased to six (6) from four (4).
135
SUPPLEMENT 4 PENSION PLAN
For the term of this agreement Pension Benefits will be as follows:
Pension benefits for active and retired participants who retire or have retired on pension directly from the bargaining unit under the PPWC WOOD PRODUCTS PENSION PLAN, will be as follows:
(a) Effective July 1,1992
Past Service Benefits - $38.()0/Month/Year of Credited Service
Future Service Benefits - $38.00/Month/Year of Credited Service
Effective July 1,1993
Past Service Benefits - $40.00/Month/Year of Credited Service
Future Service Benefits - $40.00/Month/Year of Credited Service
Effective July 1,1991
In order to fund the negotiated benefits, the costs will be actuarily calculated and expressed in cents/hour, but will not be less than eighty (.80) cents/hour.
(b)	The Pension Plan will be modified to provide for a “pop-up” option based on the following: (Trustees to implement)
136
If the contingent annuitant under a joint and last survivor pension should predecease the pcnsionci before ten ( 10) years of pension payments have been made, the pensioner’s monthly pension shall thereafter be increased effective on the first day of the month after the contingent annuitant’s death, by a percentage of the difference between the pension paid before the death and the pension that would have been paid on the single life annuity basis for the pensioner alone before reduction by the joint and last survivor option. The percentage will be 1/ 120 of one hundred percent (I 00%) foi each month remaining in the said ten (1 0) years.
(c)	The Pension Plan will be modified effective July I st, 1984 to provide that the credited hours requirement of’ the Pension Plan text be reduced from one thousand six hundred (I 600) hours to one thousand five hundred ( 1500) hours. Hours on which contributions arc made in excess of one thousand five hundred ( 1500) hours in any plan year may be applied in future years if required in order to qualify for a full year’s pension credit.
(d)	The Company is prepared to agree to the following and to direct its Trustees to amend the Pension Plan text to provide the following, effective July 1st. 1983:
1.	The following optional forms of Pension:
(a)	Life only
(b)	Life pension guaranteed - five (5) years
137
(c)	Life pension guaranteed - ten (10) years
(d)	Life pension guaranteed - fifteen (15) years
(e)	Joint and Last Survivorship
-	full continuance after death
-	2/3 continuance after death
-	1/2 continuance after death
(f)	Or any other option as agreed to by the Trustees.
2.	Where the pre-retirement Joint and Survivor coverage is not currently in effect in respect of a Pension Plan Member, and where such individual dies before retirement, his surviving spouse oi dependent children will receive a benefit undei the Plan equal to one-half of his accrued pension, to be paid for live years. The qualification conditions for this benefit shall be both the completion of a minimum of ten years’ credited service and the attainment of age fifty-five (55).
3.	Hours while on Weekly Indemnity and W.C.B.
will be credited at forty (40) hours per week until the required hours for the plan year are met.
4.	If an employee is permanently and totally dis-
abled, and has a vested right to a pension he may elect to:
- Commence his pension following expiry of Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability benefits, or W.C.B. “time loss” benefits;
138
OR
- Postpone the pension until any time up to age sixty-live (65). If postponed the employee will continue lo earn pension credits as though working.
5.	If the employee’s pension commences before age sixty-five (65), any one of the options or regulai type pension may be increased for the months before age sixty-five (65) and decrease after age sixty-five (65) when the Government pension starts.
6.	Employees may apply up to two hundred (200)
hours of layoff time toward qualif ' for the
7.	The Company agrees to provide that employees with vested pensions who terminate, and are subsequently employed within the B.C. Pulp and Paper Industry, or at any operation of Fletchci Challenge Canada Limited within the province of British Columbia or Alberta and who do not su f-fer a break in service, as defined in the plan text, during the course of their future employment specified above will be credited with future benefits at the plan level at the time of termination or retirement. Former employees who arc covered by this provision and retire without a break in service directly from the bargaining unit of an operation within the B.C. Pulp and Paper Industry or any operation of Fletcher Challenge Canada
plan year.
139
Limited will be treated the same as a plan member who retires from this bargaining unit in regard to any future negotiated benefit improvements.
8.	Employees are eligible to receive a pension if they:
are at least age fifty-live (55) with at least foul (4) years of credited service;
OR
at least age sixty (60) regardless of service.
Early Retirement
Effective July 1st, 1988, pension benefits to be paid to plan members who elect early retirement from active employment, will be determined by applying the appropriate factor outlined in the following scale to the plan members accrued benefit at the date of his early retirement commences:
Age 55 Age 56 Age 57 Age 58 Age 59 Age 60
(i) Bridging
For the term of the 199 1 -1994 Collective Agreement, there will be available a
82% of accrued benefit 86% of accrued benefit 90% of accrued benefit 94% of accrued benefit 97% of accrued bene (it 100% of accrued benefit
140
Term Annuity Benefit which will be funded by the plan.
Effective July 1st, 1993
This benefit will be available to those employees who request it and who choose lo retire early from active employment commencing at age sixty-one (6 1) and up to but not including age sixty-five (65). The benefit payable under this provision will be fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month, per year of service and credited on the same basis as undei the terms and conditions of the PPWC Mackenzie Wood Products Pension Plan.
Payments under this provision will cease at the end of the month immediately preceding the month in which the employee who selects to retire early under this provision attains age 65 (sixty-live) or dies, whichever occurs first.
9.	Employees who for reason of layoff did not accumulate the required one thousand six hundred ( 1600) hours to qualify for a full years pension credit will be granted the hours required to qualify for a full ycai's pension credit. This will apply lot the year-s 1981,1982 and 1983.
10.	An eligible employee shall attain a vested right upon completion of four (4) full years of continu-
141
ous service except that a former plan membei who ceased employment before January 1st, 1982 shall be entitled to a vested right only if his full years of age added to his full years of continuous employment totalled forty (40) and he had at least four (4) full years of continuous employment when he ceased employment.
11.	The Company agrees that the trustees should investigate the rules applying to credited hours and hours on which contributions are made of both the Pulp and Paper Industry Pension Plan and the Forest Industry Pension Plan and apply those rules if agreed to the administration of the Pension Plan.
12.	The Company agrees that the Break in Service provision of the Pension Plan will be the same as that which applies in the Pulp and Paper Industry Pension Plan.
13.	The Company agrees that the Trustees should review the performance of the current actuary and seek competitive bids from up to four Actuarial Firms which may include the present actuary prior to conformation of an actuary for the next plan year.
If either the Union or Company Trustees are in favour, a second actuarial opinion may be sought.
14.	The Company agrees that the Trustees should consider and investigate entering into a reciprocal
142
agreement regarding portability with the Pulp and Paper Industry Pension Plan and with the Forest Industry Pension Plan. If the Trustees are in favour of such an arrangement an approach may be made to the two other Industry Plans to seek their approval.
15.	Re: Portability between the Fletcher Challenge Canada Limited/Local 18 Pension Plan and the Pulp and Paper Industry Pension Plan.
The Company and Union agree to authorize the Trustees of the Pension Plan to have the Pension Plan actuary develop an arrangement for vesting purposes between the Pension Plan and the Pulp and Paper Industry Pension Plan which will permit service in both plans to count for vesting.
No money would change hands between the plans. The Pension Plan actuary would be charged with recommending lo the Trustees appropriate administrative procedures.
16.	A pre-retirement counselling program will be implemented by the Company.
17.	Effective July 1, 1988 the Company will covet the costs of providing Medical and Extended Health Benefits for Retirees.
18.	Upon the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement the Company and Union will seek proposals from local financial institutions who
143
will offer an RRSP Savings Plans by payroll deduction.
Those employees on direct payroll deposit will be eligible for this program.
19.	Pension functions held other than in the Province of British Columbia will be the responsibility of the Company and the Union to pay their own cost of attending.
20.	A pre-retirement death benefit equal to sixty percent (60%) of commuted value of accrued deferred pensions to members who die before attaining age fifty-live (55) (or after age fifty-live (55) with less than four years credited service), which will apply to active, pending terminations and disabled members in respect of all service.
In addition the PPWC Mackenzie Wood Products Pension Plan will provide an automatic Joint and Last Survivor benefit to vested members aged fifty-five (55) and older. This amounts to a pension of two-thirds (2/3) of the reduced pension that would be paid to the member had he retired. Such pension is paid to the elected survivor. This provision will remain unchanged. It is not paid in addition to the pre-retirement death benefit outlined in the paragraph above.
Examples of cash value of survivor benefits under this formula *
144
CREDITED
SERVICE
35
AGE Al’ DEATH 45
55
10 years	4,800.	9,000.	20,000.
15 years	7,200.	13,500.	30,000.
20 years	18,000.	40,000.
25 years	22,500.	50,000.
30 years	60,000.
’"Assumptions: $35.00 Benefit
wife 4 years younger
CAM ‘83 table
Interest rate: 9.5% (15), 6% (-)
N.B. These arc estimates only, actual benefits will vary because the assumptions will change.
145