AGREE
Betwe
HOUSTON FOREST p|QBUCTSCO. BABINE FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
and
IWA- CANADA LOCAL 1-424
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM BARGAINING AGENCY B c. NORTHERN interior sawmill and POLEYAKD JOB EVALUATION PLAN CONTRACTING OUT DEFINITION
DURATION OF AGREEMENT.
FIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT ____
FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
HEALTH AND WELFARE
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
INTERPRETATION and ARBITRATION
JOB TRAINING
LEAVE OP ABSENCE
LONG TERM DISABILITY
MANAGEMENT
PAYDAYS’'
PENSION PLAN RIGHT OF REFERENCE SAFETY AND HEALTH SAFETY EQUIPMENT SFNIORITY	_ . .
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE TOOL INSURANCE UNION SECURTTY VACATIONS WITH PAY WAGES
JJ
4>
27
25
22
27
6
23
31
12
30 2 5
31 23 21
32 9
19
31
33 2 15
3
xxn
xxvn
xxvtn
n
XXIX
XXVI
xvn
xvi
xm
xvm
vn
xv
XXI
IX
XIX
m
VI
XX
XIV
xn
XXIV
vm
XI
xxm
XXV
IV
X
SUPPLEMENTS
adjustments and interpretations ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING FIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT SAWMILL JOB EVALUATION PLAN SELECTION OF APPRENTICE PROCEDURE WAGE SCALES
A.<i R E E M E N T
THIS AGREEMENT entered mto this 19th day of February, 1992.
BETWEEN:
Cfierelr.after known as the 'Union') OP THE SECOND PART
WHEREAS it If the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement will promote usd Improve Industrial and economic relationships between the employees ana the Company, and to let forth herein the basic Appment between Iho parties hereto,
Am
WHEREAS the Company accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions anc enndidoni of this Aertement and to promote ofldffrly and peaceful relations with thi Employees, AffC?	|
WHEREAS the Union accepts responsibility to cLerve each-and all provisions, a no condition* of thi* Agreement rad D promote orderly and peaceful relations with th Company,	|
NOW THEREFORE (he Parties hereto mutually Jgree as follows:
AND
Section 1:
Tbe Company agrees to recognize and bargain with trfla uly elected bargaining representative on behalf of its Employees property and duly certified ur\d r the appropriate regulations th effect from time to time.
Section 2:
The Party of the First Pari agrees that the bargaining alii only of the Pally of the Second Part shall not ix impaired during the term of this new ColjectJ /e Agreement. The Party of the Fit Part agrees that the only certification they will recognize urtng the term of'this new -Agreement is that of the Party of the Second Pal unless oideredjby due process of^w to recognize jome other bargaining authority
Tbo term 'Employee* u used and for the purpose of thii Agreement thall Inc hide all person* employed by lire Com perry on whose bebalflpe International Woodworkers of America, Local 1-424, has been certified u bargaining agent*, except and excluding foremen and other* having authority to hire and fixe, office worker*, sdbervisory official* and salesmen.
ARTICLE m JMAMAGEMBtt
Section It
The management of the operation and the dirjeaion and promotion of the Employee* are vested exclusively In the management, provided bofever that this will Dot bo used for the purpose of discrimination against employee*.
Section 2t
The Company shall have the right to aelect $s employee* and to discipline them or discharge them for proper cause.
ARTICLE JY - UNION SECURITY
Section 1:
The Company will co-operate with the Un employees as defined In this Agreement, and all Supervisors and Foremen, the Policy t
Section 2t
u	vuiaiiniiy vw iLliuuilj u umiikAi, mo
(ids end will present to new employees, and to expressed.
AU employees of Babins Forest Proucts Ltd- who entered the employmem of the Company on or after the 24th day of FebnUtY. 1975, and all new Employees, shall, within 30 calendar days after the execi )k)n of tfili Agreement, or 30 calendar days after entering employment, whichever date tut c<*urs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, a* ■ condition of continued employment.
Au employees of Houston Forest1
Company on or tier the 9th day ofM^ 30 calendar days after the executioflSfiU1 employment whichever date last! telT membership therein throughout the te
employment
beta Co. V
Ffeyl£$*Who entered the employment of the P^KjK'lwd all new Enptoyees, shall, within la »ffeement, or 30 calendar days after entering irohiclinembers of the Union and maintain of t his Agreement, as a condition of continued
Section 3:	„	.
n ■	standi jg, or is r«
Any employee who is a member In good USJfiR g, or fs re-instated as a member of the Union, shall, as a condition of continued employment '	' such membership in good standing
throughout the term of thii Agreement,
Scctloa_4i
Any employee who fills to maintain his membership in the Union is prescribed herein by reason of ftfiJSlJ 10 pay du« ud tisessmenU, shall be subject to discharge alter seven (7) days written oUtcc «o lW CMipuy of the uid Employe*'a refiiaal to njiinuia his membership.
I
a)	No employee shall be subject to any penalties agiliAt his application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for In dne HV A-CAN AX) A. Constitution, as revised 1979, and in accordance with the Bylaws ofjLocal 1*424, which the Local Union certified as being correct as of April 1981.
b)	Any employee who applies to Join the Union pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Union, shall not be subject to discharge from employment.
Section 6:
the Company shall require all new Employees et the	of hiring,to execute the following
assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be suppli	by the union AU check-off forms
to be forwarded to the Local Union within fifteen (15) i of hiring.
Section?
This assignment in the case of Employees already members of the Union shall be effective immediately and for those Employees not previously mJmben of the Union, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution.
The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to luch assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked by the employee') to ine Local Union named therein, no later than the 15th day of the month following the month in which the deduction was made from the employee, with a written statement of names of employees for whflm the deduction* were made and the amount of each deduction
Section 8;
The Compary shall furnish the Union with the Social Srjfcurity number of each employee on its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded » the Union afier the execution of this Agreement or after the Employee enters the employmerj of the Company, whichever date last occurs.
Section 1:
The Parties agree that effective the first da^ (Jf July, 1993, !he wages of all hourly employees will be increased by eighty-five oentf (85 cents) per hour
b)	The Parties agree that the minimum rile for common labour shall be:
I)	$17,C7	per	hour	effective	July	lit,	1991.
ii)	$17.07	per	hour	effective	July	1st,	1992,
Ui)	$17.92	per	hour	effecd|e	JuJy	1st,	1993.
c)	The company agrees to pay a Power sLw Allowance of tea dollars ($10.00) per day to designated employ&s who supply and maintain their own uwi.
WE1.PERS;
Effective July 1st, 1981 the following snaJ
conditional co the welders being qualified Welding Specifications and either having combi or having worked in the trade for six tbousaa
me classification of welders in manufacturing i required under the Standard Forest Industry leted the three (3) year apprenticeship program (6,000) hours as a welder.
Group 1 - Welder (FM01, FM02)
Group 2 - Welder (Fl-103, DPWI, D#W2)
Group 3 - Welder (Uncertified)
Employees employed as Welder* who are remixed to renew their Welding Ticket shall be granted up to five (5) days paid Leave of /[bsence to attend school for instruction. The Company shall pay the cost of instruction and examination.
Stgjflflik.
Gnfltoi Tlgfcrta
i)
is (15 cents) per hour 10 cents) per hour
paid only when actually engaged as Lumber
Lumber Graders - AU Certified Lumber uraoen shall receive the premkm set out below, in addition to the Job Eviluatioo rue:
Class A Grading Certificate ■ fifteen cetyti Class B Grading Certificate ■ ten cents "
Provided that these premiums shall be Graders.
b)	Lumber Grading Certificates - Any em iloyee holding a Class A or Class B Lumber Grading Certificate shall receive a premiim of five cents (5 cents) per hour for all hours worked. Then shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
c)	Grading Tickets shall be per subject to the regulations of L
rmanent and valid certificates, but Graders shall remain L.M.A.. dL.M.A., C.O.F.L,C.O.N.I.F.E.RS, P.L.I.B.
ana other regulatory bodies.
d)	AU Lumber Graden holding grading fct^ficatcs shall attend upgrading classes as required
e)	Lumber Graden who air required to attend upgrading classes (grading rule changes) shall receive their regular straight job ratji fprtime spent in attending such classes.
{Section 3: _ -Hot AM Attendants Designated First Aid Attendants shall receive their Job rate pay plus me ticket premium rate.
AU other employ&s holding valid First Aid Ticket! shill receive b premium of five cents (5 cents) per hour over cad above their job rate. There ihaJj be no slacking or pyramiding <* premiums.
Section 4;
The Wage Sccie attached hereto as Supplement No. 1, effective July 1,1983, is approved by both Parties and may, subject to mutual consent of both Parties, be revised once annually, or amended through implementation of the lob Evaluation Prcjgnm.
Section St
It is agreed that employees engaged on contract or piece woyc mad ncrt receive leas money than the equivalent of the hourly rate specified in the wage sc:he4i!e for the number of hours worked in each pay period.
ia the recognized day shift Hours ti the second (2nd) and third (3rd)
The first (1st) shift which may vary in individual operation worked outside the recognized day shift shall be regarded shifts. .
Premium rata of thirty-one amts (31 cents) per hour will be paid for second (2nd) and third (3rd) shifts. A day shift employee working In excest of ttys regular tuft will be paid rate and one-half wiWcuf the differential.
Any employee on the second (2nd) or third (3rd) shift, worting in excess of his/her regular shift shall receive rate and one-half. Far the purposes of the ust sentence, rates shall be rate plus thirty-one cents (31 cents).	|
Persons employed on other thin regular shifts shal be pai<J thirty-ore cents (31 cents) premium rate for all hours worked outside the recognized day shift!
Section h
In the event that job conditions change or ne w machinery is installed, or a new category is established the Union and the representatives of the Coftniiy *r« to meet to evaluate and implement the wage rate(s) in accordance with the fob B|a)uabon Program.
ARTTC1E VT - PAY DAYS
a) The Company shall provide for pay days every i
b) Each employee shall be furnished with ait item t deductions.
pond week.
I statement of earnings and monthly
The regular houn of work shall ce «gm i») boun per day and forty (40) houn per reek Monday to Friday inclusive.
b)	Overtime will be paid at rate and oncjhalf for ill hours worked in excess of eight (8) in jday, and for Saturday and/or Sunday, with the following exceptions
c)	Double straight tune rates shal be paid for the following:
t)	Hours worked in execs | Of eleven (11) houn per day
ii)	Hours worked on Sundly by employ&s who have worked five (5) shifts during tbe preceding h|(6) days.
iii)	Item (ii) above shall n apply to employees who work oo Sunday as a regular scheduled day |
iv)	For purposes of this p Vision, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as a shift worked.
tf a Statutory Holiday occurs during th work week, the employee* shall only be required to work on Saturday and/or Sunday r the time lost due to the Statutory Holiday by mutual consent For such work the ptoy& shall be paid rale and one-half.
Section 2i Millwrights., Maintenance, Rt patrvConst ruction Employees and Watchmen.
a)	The regular houn of work ihall be fivi eight-hour day* with two days of rest each week Monday through Sunday. Such days nf rest will be consecutive days unless mutually agreed to be otherwise between the en ployce and the Company.
b)	Overtime {lull be paid at rate and onwnau tor ill hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day. on Sundays and upon Utjj employee’i two designated rest days if worked, with the following exceptions
c)	Double straight time rates shall be pa*)l f^r the following
i) Hours worked in excesijprieleven (I I) houn per day.
Hours worked on Sunday bw employees who have worked five (5) shifts
ii)
iii)
iv)
Aring the preceding sb:[6)days.
Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work on Sunday as a regular scheduled day 1
F a purposes of this pmMtsi.on, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as
■ shift worked
Secltoni; *)
b)
Firefighters. First Aid Mto. Cook >od Buakhousc Employee The weekly and daily hour* shall be la accordance with the Hours of Work Act of British
Columbia.
T i e worked by cookhouse and bunkhouse employees shall be computed on a daily basis provided, however, that rate and one-half shall apnpljj to hours worked in excess of eight (8) per day and forty <40) per week.
S«ttoa.l
»)
Thrtt-Shift QiKntlQM
b)
c)
The employer shall have the right to operate his plant or any part thereof on a three-shift basis and all employees working under this amngempn shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion of the full boun established u the uj| regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Employer11 optioa.
It is agreed that clause (a) above shall only apply n mose employees actually working on a three-shift basis	|
The Employer* shall have the right to determine the lumber of shifts operated in rry unit or department of the operation.
Sstton-1 a)
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
Management, Plant or Camp Committees and tho Lojtal Union shall have the right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree uj on and Implement other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacture operations, may include Sundays,
of the forty (40) hour week is
without overtime penalty, provided the principle <	...
maintained over an avenging period. Rate and one ialf shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday.
Any variiiion(s) to the preceding Sections denotij g normal hours of work shall be implemented only upon completion of the follow mg steps:
1) Negotiated agreement between the b cal Union and Local Management.
ii) Majority approval by the employees lvolved in the proposed variations
Wien alternative shift schedules have been implem< ited in accordance with (a) and (b) above, the following overtime provisions will apply
A. Rate and one-half shall be paid for the folio' Ing:
i)
ii)
The Tint three (3) hours work id in a day in excess of the normal
daily hours of the established chedule.
Ffours worked ‘ in excels of for y (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is averaging period.
iii)
hr)
All hours worked
chinge in rest da; j has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
All boon wotted section.
Double straight-time rates shall
l)	All hours worked
ii)	All houn worked
scheduled rest da] time hours in the
]on an employee's scheduled rest day. unless a
on Sunday except those excluded in the casual
jc paid for the following:
in excess of A(i) above.
so a Sunday when Sunday is also an employee's if the employee has worked forty (40) straight-preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest
day baa been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
Supplement No. 8 - Alternate SI ift Scheduling, contains the agreed upon general principles and parameters for the] establishment, implementation or discontinuance of alternate shift schedules.
Section 6:
It is agreed between the Parties that if three 11(3) hours or less are necessary after midnight Friday, or on a Statutory Holiday, t0 Complete lihe shift which commenced on Friday afternoon, or the afternoon preceding the Statutory HoUcny, lime worked after midnight lo complete this shift rill bo paid al straight time.
Section 7:
The foregoing provisions of this Article shall nipt be construed U guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per yeek.
Section 8:
Any employee called for work and finding no [Work available due to reasons beyond his or her control shall be entitled to two (2) hours pa] it the usual rate. This shall apply unless the Company gives notice cancelling the said call, Such notice shall be considered to be given by sji announcement over Radio Station B.V.L.D.(C.F.LD. prior to the commencement of the shift in accordance with (b) of Supplement No. 2,
Section 9;
When an employee is called for work and stara worn, he shall receive four (4) houn pay at his regular rate unless his work is suspended because of inclement weather, or other reasons completely beyond the control of the Compan^.
Srvt ton Mi___c*--------------
Employees called back to work aner completion ol their regular scheduled shift shall be paid ■ minimum of three (3) hours at rate and onejhalf.
Section H;
AU employees in manufacturing plants shall be entitled [two (2) tea (10) minute rest periods during each regular shift.
SedionUi__Caml Work
a)
The term "Casual Work' ai used In this A^reemei* shall apply only to work performed on Saturdiy and/or Sunday by either lud-off regular employees or other persons *	* *	*	* "Casual r—"----------*	1
hereinafter referred to as “
1 Employees'.
b)	Casual employees on maintenance, repair or prc
rates, sod those on production shell be paid rate" a Saturday and Sunday.
Uory work shall be paid straight-time
i Doe-half for all work performed on
c)	Casual work on maintenance, repair and preparatdhr work will be paid at straight-time job rate.
d)	Regular la id-off employees shall not be classified Casual Employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said casual imployees.
The employer agrees to keep a separate seniority worked at least ten (10) working days, exclusive!
list of casual employees who have for recall purposes and, subject to
clause (d). further agrees to recall casual emDlovew in accordance with their seniority u set forth in this list.
Section 13;
When an employee is unavoidably prevented from reporting for his scheduledshift, if reasonably possible, he must give notice to his foreman, or it la Cdmoanv office, at least two (2) hours before the shift commences.
Section 14t
That a Committee be established with IWA Local auring the term of the 1977-1979
Agreement to clarify the provisions of Article VU * HourJ of Work.
Station Ift H 9 .t Mala
Where maintenance, repair and construction employes tip required to work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the Company shut provide a hot meal, Such hot m a I to be consumed by the employees on Company ire be foie beginning Ie overtime work.
lartion___
i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary ccmuuied in this Agreement, it shall be mutually agreed that all employees are hired on probation, the probationary period to continue until thirty (30) days Iwe been worked! during which time they are to be considered temporary workers only, and during this same period no seniority rights shall be recognized.
Upon completion of Unity (JUJ employees, and shall the' be en they entered the Company’s eel] period of thirty (30) days wort calendar months following ihe
It is agreed that probationary
employees for any work perfoi competency.
ttys worxca, iney shall be regarded u regular itlcd to seniority dating from the day on which jploT, provided however, that the probationary d anil! only be cumulative within the three (3) it* of entering employment.
employees will have preference over Casual med during the Dormal work week, subject lo
k id
cku
jv\ It is further agreed that in the ijblicadoti of (iii) above, probationary employees will be called In for work in accordance with their hiring date, unless such call-i' is beyond the control of the employer, and is subject to the employee being competent to perform the wore. This obligation does 'at appfy where the employee cannot be readily contacted or where the employee bis worked one shift in the 24 hour period,
Section 2;
The Company recognizee the princip'lelpf seniority, competency considered
1,1	Where the Company operates more thao one plant, each such plant will be considered
1	separately forsenlonty purposes; exceoU where the Union and Company agree upon some
different arrangement.
Section 3:
a)
When making promotions, the Company agrees to give due consideration to length of service.
b) In the event of a reduction of the force j, the last person hired shall be the first released, subject to the provision! of Section (2) .of this Article.
During a reduction of forces wher* anc be able to keep his/her regular job he jh seniority to obtain a lower paid job o layoff until his/her regular job become^
employee's seniority is such that hc/shc will not ''she may elm whether or not to apply his/her a job paying the same rate of pay or accept a available, provided however:
1. If during the layoff period the me Company, he/she shal be entities hinVher to a job
hej^l
employee wishes to return to work and so nolifies jailed back to work as soon as his/her seniority
2. The application ef this proYis ios shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his/her rights, buroputg a" employee with less seniority.
During a reduction of forces where an be able to keep his/her regular job, h a job paying a higher rate regular basis in this term of emp'loymi
.employee's seniority is such that he/she will nof ‘ihemayecci to appty his/her seniority to obtain previoisty held the job in the operation on a
%
Section 4;
tf is agreed that when employees are to be re-ciiled Biter a lay-off, k shill be done on the basil of the last person released shall be the I first person recalled, subject to provision* of Section 2(a).
It is agreed that in cases of emergency the apportion of plant seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but r >t exceeding three (3) days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this projfision it shall notify the Committee or the Local Union immediately.
When a reduction of forces is caused by emergdicy conditions, the application of seniority may be postponed for such period as may fie necessary but not exceeding five (5) working days. If the Company decides to exereile its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Shop Committee as soon as possible!
Section 5:
When re-calling employees, in acco/da/ice with Section 4 after seasonal shut-down, all employees shall be notified by telegram or registered] letter at least seven (7) days before re-starting of opemioa. Tbe employees must reply by telegram or registered letter in the affirmative within ninety-six (96) hours of the telegram or registered letter king sent out by the Company, and appear for work not latsriihan the above stated seven (7) day period.
Employees resident in the Province of Alberta or in to one (I) additional day to report and employe Province or the United States shall be entitled to tw
tmon Territories shall be entitled resident in any other Canadian j (2) additional days to report.
Company informed of his address
to employment, in accordance with
c)	It shall be the employee’s responsibility to keep thi
during the period of shutdown.
d)	It is agreed that all employees shall, upon returning this Section, retain all seniority rights.
fiaflicn
It is agreed that upon the request of the Union a list will befcuppiied by the Company setting out the name and the starting day with the Company of eaeft regular employee, however, such request shall not he granted more than twice during each wear of the term of this Agreement.
The Company wiil advise the Union once each month! of (manges to the said list.
___
a)	It is mutually agreed that when hmng new employees consideration for preference shall, subject to the same conditions as in Section 2 abovJ, be given to those employees of the Company having bad previous seniority and who Have applications on file.
b)	The Company signatory to this Agreement underMes to give preference in hiring to former employees having previous Company seniority seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reductions in otheijoperations of the Company.
Section 8:
It is agreed between the Partiei that seuiuruy basis:
inning iay-ong snail oe rcuueo on me ruiiowing
■)
*>)
Employees with one (tyor more y' year, plus one (I) addition*] month for mouths.
Employees with less than one (J) yeaj service will retain their seniority for a period of
eight (8) months.
service shall retain their seniority for one (1) lach year of service, up to an additional six (6)
E)
Q
it shall he the employee's responsibility to keep the Company informed of his or her address during a lay-off
A laid-off employee's seniority refentii1** i« ^instituted on the completion of one day of
work.
Section 9l
It is agreed that when an employee baa been [transferred by the Company to a tuDervisory or staff position, he will continue to accumJatei seniority for a period of ninety (90) days. At any time during this ninety (90) day period the individual shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit in the Job which be would ha « held If be bad not left the bargaining unit. (In special cases this ninety (90) day period may be extended for up to a further ninety (90) days by mutual agreement between the Company akd the Shop Committee.) At the expiration of the period mentioned above, his seniority win be frozen. Thus, if at a later date, be ceases to be a supervisor or staff worker and the Company Oesires to retain his services, it is hereby agreed that reinstatement CU he made within the birj aining unit provided howsw. that any employee so reinstated must return to the job held at the linpc of bis or her promotion to the supervisory or sufT position
ARTICLE g • LEAYE Of ABSEKCE
Section 1;
Any em loyee desiring leave of abscSKe Section A and 3 of this Article must cb such leave to be forwarded to the Lacll
for any reason other than those set out in kin same in writing from the Company a copy of ‘ Union.
lea's
b) Where any employee is granted a
longer than thirty (30) calendar days, tl the Union as to the circumstances for i
of absence under this Section for a period of Company agrees to notify the Job Steward and * muting of such period of leave.
Section 2:
The Company win gant leave of absence S^Pployeei suffering illness or injury, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the CojltP3fl)h The employee shall report, or cause to have reported, to the Company the injury or iUACi^j tvhich requires his ibsence from the operation The employee shall have a reasonable peri6$ 011 time to present a metical certificate if requested by the Company
Section 3i
a)	The Corrpany shall grant leave of absence to employee! who are appoinied or elected to Union office for a period of up to U>d Including Ofle year. Further leave of absence may be granted by mutual consent. Any employee w|o obubu *uch of abMoce shall return to the Company within thirty (30) cilcnda|f days after completion of his term of employment with the Union.
b)	The Union will make every effort in requesting wen waves of absence to avoid request! that will unduly deplete the crew in any one department which will impair production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. l| such cases, the Union win co-operate with the Company in making substitute employee! available or select alternate delegates to Union functions.
c)	The Company will grant leave of absenceJlto employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union Conventions, or members of any Union Negotiating Committee La order that they pay carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
d)	It is agreed that before the employee receives jpui Leave of Absence as set forth in clauses (a) and <c) above, the employer will be given notice in writing (in the case of (t) - fifteen (15) calendar days, in the case of (c)-flve (5) calendar days) by the Union In order to replace the employee with a competent {substitute.
Sttlton 4l_CQMTASS10MATE LEAVE
By mutual agreement leave of absence will be granted a maximm of six (6) months wthoul pay to the employees for compassionate reasons or f r educational or training or extended vaealioa purposes, conditional on the following terms:
0
That the employee apply at least one (1) month, application could not reasonably be foreseen.
n advance unless the grounds for such
b)
c)
d)
That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application
The Company shall giant such leave where i bona tide reason is advanced by the applicant or may postpone leave when a suttab e replacement is not available.
That the Company will consult with the Shop ifommirtee in respect of any application for love under this section.
e)	\Afe Corrpany will only be obliged to grant leava or ansence for educational and training purposes to employees who intend to take mining that will assist the individual in obtaining skills related to the industry.	I
0 Employees granted leave of absence pursuant ta this section shall be required to pay the appropriate premiums for health and welfare, dental and medical coverage.
g) It is agreed that employees requesting leave |f absence for the purpose of extended vacations, shall only be granted such leave oncJ every three (3) yeans, and that a record shall be Kept for the purpose of ensuring that jJjch leaves are properly routed.
h) The Union agrees il will pro vine a iener jegaraurg proolemj which arise from extended vacation applications
SailflttA____Maternity tar*
To provide for a reasonable period of lime for cilended maternity lave without pay to female employees where there is a valid medical reason!'
SMilan ft	Ft——t T nyt
Wien death occun to a member of a regu employee will bo granted as appropria compensated at his regular straight time'
work schedule for l maximum of three
Piece worlert who arc entitled to berea
with the principles established
iUedtoberea ^^leave thed in Article L Section
e's immediate I Uy are • if sisters, son I dauehtc p-parcels,	Q (
^r full time employee’s immedate family, the S leave of absence for which he shall be riy rate of pay fe boura lost from his regular days.
shall be compensated in accordance
Section 2(b).
defined as the employee's spouse, “ mother-in-law. father-in-law,
grandchildren, ttep-childrea,
Members of the employee's mother, father, brothers,	.
grandparents-in-law, step-parcels, sons-rrHaw, and* daughten-ln-liw.
Compensate hours under the terms of thijj Section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vac&tioni anrlfor recognized paid holidays, hut wll not be counted as hours worked for the purpose m computing overtime.
faction 7l *)
-Jury Putt
Any regular FulMime employee who is required lo perform Jury Duty, Coroner’s Duty, or as a Crown Witness or Coroner’s Witrbss on a dav which he would normally have worked will be reimbursed by the Compan t for the difference between the pay received for Jury Duty and his regular straight time hourly rale of pay for his regularly scheduled hours of work It is understood that such r im burse merit shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per weef, less statutory pay received for Jury Duty.
Service and Jury Duty pay
received.
b) Anypiece-worker who is required to perform Jury Duty shall be compensated for the difference between Statutory pay received jor Jury Duty and his job rate in accordance with the principle established in Article XX Section 2(b).
c) Hours paid for Jury Orty will be counted a| for vacation and for recognized paid holicb for the purpose of computing overtime
hours worked for the purpose of qualifying fi, but will not be counted as hours worked
14
SatlfliLg;___PubUc.Oflla
a)	TTia Company will emit leave of absence wiuiout pay for campaign purposes to
candidate! for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, provided the Compny ii given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for sulh application could not reasonably be foreseen.	1
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Prek'inciil, or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave without pay as is necessary during the term of such office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for abseoce| from work for conducting Municipal business.
The enpfoyea. who obtains this leave of absence Ihall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of pubjjlc office.
ARTICLE X - VACATIONS WITH PAY
With respect to annual vacations and vacation pay tine fallowing provisions will apply Sfrtfop-L----One-la-TwoXnn SttTkt
The annual vacation for employees with one (I) or twlb (2) yean of service covered by this Agreement shall be two (2) weeks, and the pay tlicrefo|shall be based ipion five percent (5 $) of the total wages or salary earned by the »eo|rioy*e duhng the period of entitlement, or eighty (80) hour? at the hourly rate of the employe*71 regular (lob, whichever is greater.	‘
SttUmZi______Xiffl. Ifl-Smu-Xtin-fonlfl
>) The annual vacation for employees with two (2)10 seven (7) yean of service covered by this Agreement shall be three (3) weeks, and thelpay therefor shal be based upon seven percent (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and twenty (120) tofura at the hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greater.
b) The additional one (I) week vacation provided|for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have t(j) be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Section l herein.
i) The annual vacation for employees with seven (7)	fifteen (15) years of service coverec
by this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks and tie pay therefor shall be based upon nine percent (9*) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period o ealidement, or one hundred and sixty (160) Ibdlin at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever i* greater.
b) The additional one (I) week vacation provided for in (his Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but doer not hale to be consecutive with the vacation penods provided for in Sections 1 and 2 hereift
Strtlon 4i_ flTtenJtt Twenty-four Yan.ffinlw
i) The annual vicatica for employee* wren nneen (15) to twenty-four yean of service covered by this Agreement jhall be five (5) week*, ind tbc pay therefor shall be based upon eleven percent (11X) of Uw tool |»ges or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two huMred (200) hours at the hourly rate of tbc employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
h) Subject ta the provision* o( Section ellberein, the additional one (i) week vacation provided for Is this Section may he fffcea consecutively with the vacation periods provided for is Sections 1, 2, or 5,
Section 5:___IwtBlY:tHULM TtlrCf, Y«t» Sti
a)	The annual vacation for employees vrithtwenty-four (24)to thirty (30) years of service covered by this Agreement shall be sU 16) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be baset upon thirteen percent (13%) of the total vragei or salary earned by the employee durine the period of entitlement, or two hundred and forty (240) hour* at the hourly rale of ttu
employee’s regular jab. whichever is grfptei
b)
Subject to the provisions of Section 8 benrio, the additional one (I) week vacation provided for in this Section may be tjjken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Section* 1, 2,3, or 4.
Section 6:	Thlrtr Yan 6«rh»
»
The annual vacation for employees with thirty (30) yean ol service covered »y this Agreement shall be seven (v) weeks, aug the pay therefor sh ail be based upon fifteen
percent (15 %) of the total wages or Si entitlement, or t*o hinclod and eijfity (^) regular job, whichever is greater.
I by the employee during the period o ) hour* at the hourly rate of the employee's
Subject to the provision* of Section 0 Jjerem, the additional one (i) week vacation provided for in this Section may be tqken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections I, 2,3,4 or 5.
Swtton 7i—liafiimfir.pa Tmalnitloo
An enployee v»hose employment is terminatedkhall receive vacation pay at the appropriale percentage of the wsges or salary earned duringt^e period of entitlem ent m accordance with the employee s yean of service.
SkUcilJ-----Yi caUon .Thus
Vacations for employees shall be taken at Jirch lime as mutually agreed upon by the Shop Conrnttee and Hie Company v\rien quanfjtyand regularity cf production shaII not be impaired.
m AU earned vacation shall be taken
M
Section 9t_ Payment of Vacation Par
i)	The calculation and comparison of the vacation pay dnounts developed by the percentage
of rrou wages method and the boun times the regullrjob nte method will be completed ana the greater amount paid to the employee wiiMn fourteen (H) day* of tha ccnunon vacaiion cut-off dale or tne employee* t anniversary date. The Company ’ l present cut-off
or anniversary date method shall be continued v the Company and the Local Union.
F o r the purposes o! this Article, the rate o f the of the employee’I regular job at the date of th« employee s anniversary date, aa the case may be.
a change is agreed upon between
Dioyee » regular job will be the rate “ non vacation cut-off date or the
ings for the days actually worked ion vacation cut-off date or the
c)	In the case of a pieceworker, the nte of the em iploVee's regular job will be determined
by computing the em ployees hourly average ear'—-	**-" J	*-J
during the pay period Immediately preceding the employee's anniversary date, as the case may be.
d)	On the date when an employee completes one (19, two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24), or thirty (30) yeanco service and where the re is a common cut-off date for all employees in the operation, the employee a ill receive
3 In the case of one (l) year, one ercent (1%) of his gross earnings between the date of employment aru| the date of the last common cur-off date;
ii) In the case of two (2), seven (7), fifteen (13), twenty-four (24) or thirty (30) yean, two percent (2 %) o f b is jmss earnings between the date 0 f his last anniversary date and the date on tie last common cut-off dale
Section 10; Vacation Par - PtnxaUtt of Wages MeAod
The foilowing shill be considered as days actually woirktafor determining vacations with pay lor an employee a fter one (1) continuous year of employment:
a)
b)
c)
d)
Absence on Workers' Com pensation up fo a periodf one (1) year, provided that the employee mums to h is employment
Absence due to Illness up to a period of one (1) yelr, provided that the em ployee returns to hia em ploym ent Tbe employer shall have th^ light to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
Absence due to bereavement leave In accordance afeli the terms and conditions of Article DC, Section 6.
Absence due to lim e served on jury duty, IncludjhgCoroner's Jury, or time served as a Crown witness or Coroner's witness in accoirdJoee with the terms and conditions of Article IX. Section 7.
Any other absence duly approved by the employer in writing shall be credited towards entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent cjp such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
17
StrcUon.U;—OkuUfiatiqmior Ytaiifla Eafc Regular Job Ratt Method
a> 0
[n order for an employee to qualify for the amount generated by the houn urn es the regular job rate method, tit employee must have worked a minimum ol fifteen hundred (1,500) houn p the employee's first year of service and a minimum of one thousand (1,00V) houn during the employee's succeeding years of entitlement.
When there is I common vatatioo pay cut-off date, for the purposes of
calculating minimum hours U if) (I) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to top cut-off date in the succeeding year.
iii) When there is no coramou imuuu pay cut-off date, for the purposes of calculating minimum hours u lnl(l) above, th e calculation period shall be fro the employee's anniversary dark in n M year to his anniversary if succeeding year.
in the
b) For the purposes of computing the requisite houn the following will be included:
i)
ii)
if)
All hours worked;
Statutory Holiday hours;
Jury and Crown Witness fluty; Bereavement leave;
Vacation hours;
Time noi csceeding one recognized a s compensat suffered during the coun i worked lor the purpose employee returnsto his -
(11 year, lost as the result ol an accident Ic Dy the W orker'l Compensation Board and of em ploym ent. shall be considered as tun e jf qualifying for vacation, provided that the e pployment;
Time rot exceeding one ( ) year, lost asthe result of a non-occupationai accident or illness, shall lb: considered as tun e worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, pi rvided th a t a t the //me of the accident or illness the payroll for not less than one (1) year and yment. It is understood that the employer may provide a certificate from a Qualified medical
vui)
ix)
the employee has been or that he returns to his empl require that the employee practitioner;
Time lost as a result o f lafofT shall not be considered as time worked for
the purposeof qualifying;
com puting requisite* houi qualifies for call tim e in a eight (8) hours or credit whichever is greate
'or requisite hours;
Employees who report foriwork and who receive call time payment shall be credited with eieht (|) hours for any such shift for purposes of '	\ under this Section. Any employee who
day shall receive credit under this Section for fonhe houn for which wages were paid.
x) All hours worked in mom than oie u j division of the parent company as a result c£ transfer or layoff.	'
Sutton U: Emp^ymwt Standards Art
Part 4 ■ Annual Vacation of the Employment Stanlards Act. S B C., [980, c 10, and amendments thereto, except where vaned or modified ubv the dtcmsioos herein shall become part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XI - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Sectlon.li
/) AJI hourly-rated employees uta work on New Ylear's Day, Good Friday, Victoria D^1, Canada Day, British Columbia Day Labour Hay, Thanksgiving Day', Remembrance Day, Christmas Day rrad Boring Day shall be Ibiid rate and one-half for ill hours w
worked
b)	la the event one of the above Statutory Holiday! falls on a Sunday, the previous Friday or the following Monday shall be observed is tils Holiday, p the event that one of the within turned Statutory Holidays falls oo Saturday il shall be observed on the preceding Friday or succeeding Monday as agreed betweenjthe Company and the Shop Committee.
c)	In the case of a maintenance employee where o|e of the Statutory Holidays is observed on his rest day, he shall have a day off withmil nay in lieu thereof at a mutually agreeable time.
Section 2;
a)	All hourly-rated, and piece-work employees whdf qualify fo the pad holiday under the conditions set -aI beiow shall be pad ior the holiday at their regiia- job rate of pay for their regular Vvork schecrile
The Parties hereto agree that the paid Statutory jjlolidays shaiibe as follows
b)
New Year's Day Remembrance Day British Columbia Day
Victoria Day Bering Day
Canada uayi Good Fridai Christmas I ay Labour Day Thanksgivir » Day
Piece work employees shall receive pay for t \t Statutory Holidays for which they qualify based on the daily average earnings fq|r the days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) working days
c) All hourly rated employees vwxking m a paid hdfiday shall receive rate and one^half for hotxs worked on such day in addition to the holiday pay io which he may be entitled
d) Cook and bunkhouse employees uta work on a statutory holiday shall receive at the end
of their reguiarwork schedule a" additional dajloff with pay io be added to thetr leave and vacation allowance accumulated In accordance with Article vn Section 3
c)	To qualify for statutory holidays, an employee must have ban on the Company payroll for the thirty calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday and must have worked hii list regularly scheduled workday before, and his first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his absence is due to a compensable occupational injury or illness, which occurred within ax (6) months of (be holiday, or the employee is on authorized leave of absence in accordance with Section 2 or 3 of Article DC,
f)	In the case of illneas or injury, the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
g)	Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, the employee roust have worked one day before and om day after the holiday, both of which must fall within a period of sixty (60) calendar days.
Section 3;
,) In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, and when the Company and Shop Commilee mutually agree, the uid holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
b)	At the Option of the Company, but whenever possible by mutual agreement with the Shop Committee, either Good Friday of Easter Monday shall become the designated Easter Holiday and the Company shall ndify Us employees of the designation at least cne (l) week prior to the said holiday.
When / Statutory Holiday foils on Frida}, employees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week by mutual agreement between the Company and the Plant Corrmttee may work on the Friday statutory holiday at t|e straight time job rates and substitute Saturday u the statutory holiday.
Sttflpn 4:___Etoroil floating Holiday
This Section becomes effective September 1, ljl>78. This Personal Floating Holiday is in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day but this Section dull come into operation on its effective date even U Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed.
a)	Personal Floating Holiday - Regular fill time employees will be granted one Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of the Agreement, to he arranged at a time suitable to the Employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production.
b)	Qualifying Conditions - When the Personal Floating Holiday is take?, an employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his/her regular job rate of pay for his/her regular work schedule, subject to the following condjlions:
i)	A new employee most. «*** been on the payroll lor not less than 90 consecutive calendar davl toaualify for the Personal Floating Holiday
ii)	An employee will not quilify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for more than rune (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or Injury.
Ui)
iv)
v)
vi)
Vii)
An employee shall apply on in flSiroved form, at least seven (7) days in advance, for his/ho* Personal Roaring Holiday. The employee shall receive notice of the disposition if his/her request' a muiirrurri Of 72 hours prior to the requested Personal floating Holiday.
If an employee is required to wont on his/her Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date oas been deUsignated for such ho6day, the employee shall be paid overtime for such work at the rate of time and one-haif. The employee will then be entitled tq take the holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon
Personal Floating Holiday not Lpen or scheduled by April 30th cf each contract year will be scheduled jjy management.
A Personal Floating Holiday sl^all nor be scheduled on an employee's
regular rest day
When in employee chooses Saturday and/or Sundry u a Personal
Floating Holiday straight time rated will apply-
Section It
The Company and Employees will co-opente to assurekafe working methods and conditions and devise plans for the furtheranci of safety measures. ||Equtpment and devices mutually agreed upon a be provided by the Company
Section 2:
The Management of every operation shall mtimaui an Acciacnt Prevention Committee of four to six members according to the tixe of the operation. Members <rt m* Committee aha* be designated to equal number by the Employees ind the Employer. Employee representatives shall be regular employees In the operation with at least orfe year experience.
SectlonJ;
Safety meetings will be held during working hours whjlft fossible Employee's time will not be deducted for attending such meetings or investigations into accidents ll is recognized that in multi-shift operations, meeting! will occur outside cf forking houn for certain employees
When meetings take place outside of an employee's woriang hours,. he will be compensated at his regular hourly straight time rate of pay for the time spent attending such meetings, investigations and inspections up to a maximum of twp houn per week.
ScdlonJt
The Company will require all Cookhouse employcesp nave a health card from a recognized doctor within ten (10) days of employment and shall pnew same every six (6) months. Cost of medical examination is to be borne by the Employ|r if the Employee stays on the job thirty (30) days. This requirements is subject lo rmedkal service bcine available.
21
Section 5;
Effective July I 1989, an fWA • Forest Industry Safety and Health Research Program be establshed on the following gene ml principles
a) The Plan will be jointly trusteed.
b)
c)
The Plan is to be funded on the basis of cent) per hour per employee per hour wort
The trustees will be appointed In the first the first year to establish objectives and -
Industry contribution of one-half cent ('A pd, effective July 1,1989.
If Of the Agreement and will meet during -tin* and administrative procedures.
Operati
Section 1;
A Grievance Committee shall be elected to con si it of two to four employees elected by the Union members employed in the operation covepd by this Agreement. Members of this Grievance Committee shall have completed their prt paiionary period with the Company and shah have at least one year’s experience in the type of < deration. Whenever possible members shall be selected on a departmental basis. Meetings of th |Grievance Committee shall, except in cases of emergency, ana wherever possible, be held ouikide of working hours. In the event that a grievance should arise it shall be dealt with in the fallowing manner, without stoppage of work.
step 1.
The individual employee involved wittj or Without the Shop Steward shall first take up the matter with the Foreman directly in clarge of the work within fourteen (14) days from the occurrence of the event or event I giving rise to tie grievance or from tome when the employee has knowledge or may be reasonably presumed to have knowledge
of such event or events
step 2.
If a satisfactory settlement is not them rc«wiev, it shall be reduced to writing by both Parties when the same employee and the Capmirtee shafl take up the Gnevance with the Plant Superintendent and/or Personnel Manaeer. If desired, the Union Business Agent
shall accompany the Committee
step 3.
Ifa grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Local Union and the Management.	1
step 4,
If a satisfactory settlement is not then rtaqpea, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
22
S ret I on 2:
a)	If a grievance has not advanced to the next slagelbnder Steps 2,3, or 4, within fourteen (M) days after completion of the preceding stage! then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the Irievance procedure shall be at an end.
‘Tha fourteen (14) days limit may be ex tended bU mufuiJ consent of both Parties.
b)	The Panics agree Out the operation of Section) Subsection I. of the Labour Code of British Columbia Act 1973, is specifically excised from this Agreement
Section 1;
1/ the two Parties fail to agree upon an interpretation of|the Agreement either Party shall have the right to refer the matter to the Joint Industry Commutee, hereinafter provided, and if either Party docs make such reference, the other Party murtapept the reference.
Section 2i
The Joint industry Committee shall consul of t^wlppresentaiives selected by the nvA-CANADA, Negotiating Committee and three rcp** 180 tali ves selected by the Company represented in the negotiations 0f this Agreement, ftfttl |PG two committees may be represented
by one or more Parries selected by them.
Section 3;
When an interpretation of the Agreement has beei reference shad be for the period of forty-eight (48) Parties to Ibis Agreement, In case the Joint Corai interpretation this shall be furnished in writing to thi
Section^;
In the event the Joint Committee members disagree
Union and Union members of the Joint Committee representatives and submitted to the Employer and 1 in the case as found by the Employer and the emplo be placed in writing and given to the Union membei
Section 5i
if a satisfactory interpretation of the point li question question to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
eferred to the Joint Committee, this rs or longer by mutual consent of the ees a^ree upon a recommendation or fnion involved and to the Company.
1 the facts In the case as found by the all be placed in writing by the Union te Union member involved. The facts members of the Joint Committee shall tployees for their information.
ic4 reached either Party may refer the
Section 1‘. InttrnrtUllQO
a) in case of arty dispute ansrng regarding the in JJpreUtion of this Agreement which the Parties hereio are W eto settle between then jpilves, the matter shall be determined by InierpreuUon in the following manner
23
b)
c)
Q
e)
Either Party may notify the other Party to writing by Registered mail on the question or questions to be interpreted. After receiving such notice and statement, each of the parties will then refer the matter to the Intenwoer tdactod by the Parties.
The Parties tyree to_________________________________________u the Interpreter for the
duration oT this Agreement.
In the event the Interpreter named in (c)
ibovq is unable through illness or absence from
the Province of British Columbia for a y reason whatsoever, to act as Interpreter, the
Parties agree that _
shall act in bis place.
The decision of the Interpreter shall be fftud and binding upon the parties of the First and Second Part.
Section 2i Arthntlon
In the case of a dispute arising under this Agreement, except as to Interpretations of this Agreement, which the Parties are urublo I o settle themselves, as let out in Article XIII, the matter shall be determined by A/bitrktion hthe following manner
Either Party may notify the other Party be arbitrated. After receiving such not refer the matter in writing to the Arbitr
i writing by Registered mail of the question, to e and saiement, each of the Parties will then tor who has been selected by the Parties.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall bei filial and biding upon the Parties of the First and Second Part.
d)	The Parties agree that____________ shall be the Arbitrator for the duration
of this Agreement. U the Arbitrator niined above is unable to go through illness or absence from the Province of British Columbia fa ny reason whatsoever to act as
Arbitrator, the Parties agree that 1!____________________________________________will be
appointed in his place.
e)	If both of the Arbitrators named abSVjtkre unable to act because of reasons set out above, the parties agree to mat and infFpi d select a mutually satisfactory Arbitrator. If unable to select one which is satiSRfiory, the parties further agree to request the Honourable Minister of Labour of Province of British Columbia to appoint an Arbitrator.
0 If the Arbitrator finds that an emplaoy Bas been unjustly suspended or discharged, such employee shall be reinstated with ahia rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall I [further make the determi nations on the amount of lost Pay to be Paid lo the employee
Section 3:
The Parties of the Fit and Second Parts liwm each bear one-half of the expenses of interpretations or arbitrations ingjandag the wary of the Interpreter or Arbitrator plus any stenographic, secretarial and rent expenses whkjn may be incurred in respect to such proceeding.
Section 4:
Any Arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held in |be City of Prince George or such other place u may be decided by the Arbitrator.
Section 5:
A Committee shall be established to develop and implement a system of expedited arbitration of gnevances The chairman of this Committee will bl H. Allan Hope, Q.C. The Committee shall report to the parties not later thin December 31, J1984.
Sect ton 1:
i) The Union will, within sixty (60) days frortl |hc date of this Agreement, notify the Company la writing of the members of the npop Committee, The Union or Shop Committee will inform the Company in writing Then any member change takes place on the said Committee. No member of the ShojJCommittee will be recognized by die Company unless the above procedure is carrigdlOut.
b)	For the purpose of this Agreement, when the stjord ’Committee* is used it shall mean Shop, Mill or Plant Committee, members of wl|ch are appointed by the Union.
c)	Official Union representatives shall obtain access to the Company’s operations for the purpose of this Agreement by written permission which will be granted by the Company on request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company
Section 2:
The Company agrees that the rate for Board and Lodgihg shall be $2.35 per day
The Union agrees that it will not cause, promote, sane ion, or authorize any strike, sit-down, slow-down, sympathetic strike, or other interference wi i work by the employees for any cause whatsoever until all provisions of this Agreement relating [to grievance and arbitration procedures have been complied with, unless failure to comply wifp such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Company.
Section 4:	No Lockout Pending Grievance and Ar^ltratloiUYocedurt
The Company agrees it will not create or institute any l any dispute between the Company and the Union or tf provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and a with, uoless failure to comply with such procedure i misconduct of the Union or ill employees.
it df Jba ,£(T]fioyeas with respect to Company and its employee until all litration procedure have been complied due to any act or refusal to act or
Employees outside the bargaining unit will not perform work that is normally dose by employees in the bargaining unit
However, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting foremen from doing work for purpose of instruction, provided by so doing a lay-off of bargaining unit employees does not result or in the case of an emergency when itguUjl employees an not available, provided that every reasonable effort is made to find a replacement. ‘
SfCtlCD 6s
a) Effective July 1st, 19S2, employees terminlted by the Company because of permanent closure of a manufacturing plant shall be [entitled .o severance pay equal to one (1) week’s pav for each year of continuous service and thereafter in increments of completed months of service.
b)
c)
Section 7; planerman Training
It is agreed that the Panics lo the Agreement whl meet jointly lo discuss and implement a Planerman’s Training Program.
Sretton-B;—Twla
*)
b)
0
The Company will repair <a replace those Tradesmen'* tools that are damaged or broken in the performance Of regular duties.
The Company will make available Tradesmen's tools required uponthe introduction c£ the metric system.
During the induction of equipment wmch requires the use of metric tools, the Company will make metric fools available)] at no cost, for use by Tradesmen.
Employees of the Company who, by mutual agreement, train or retrain for Industrial First Aid Certificates, will be compensated in the following manner:
i) The Company will pay the cost of the <joune tuition and material required to those employees who pas trie course.
b)	The Company will pay lost time wa;ges|t)5, designated First Aid Aftendants
ARTICLE XVII - BPRfigTRY gSvIRQNMKNTAI< COMMITTEE.
Forestry Environmental Commute** shall be established jby the Company and the Local Union
The details concerning the structure, operation and lenni of reference mint be agreed » by me
Company and the Local Union prior ta implementation II
a) Medical coverage including Extended Health Benefit coverage shall be provided ty the Company at do cojI to the employee. The Emended Health Benefit Coverage shall include hospitalization coverage up to a miximum of feic#nt dollars and fifty cents ($3,50) per day.
b) Effective July 1st, 1982. a Vision Care Prograirflbe instituted to provide for payment up to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100,00) per person in any twenty-tour (24; coniecutive month period fot charges incurred! relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by • person legally qualified to make such a prescription.
C)	Participation in tuch a plan shall be compulsor] ipon all employees
d)	Dependent Coverage That t h e appropriate policies fot rredcai and dental coverage be
amended to provide coverage for ^pendents o|er the age of twenty-one (21) years but not over the age of twenty-five (25) years, projfided that the dependents are attendng a recognized educational Institution.
It is agreed that a Health and Welfare Plan be ImtltutM wrth the principles hereinafter set out, SftiigrUL ^trerind?!
Houston Forest Product! Co. and Babine Forest Pijbducis Ltd. logeiber with Weldwood of Canada Limited. Forest Industrial Relations limited. Interior Forest Labour Relations Association. Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Reis bans. Nonhwood PJp and TimberUd., Canadian Forests Products Limited, anl rWA-CANADA agree to establish a set of trustees for the purpose of developing a commol lexi, s common trust agreement, and a common employee booklet for the six Health and welfare Rans. covering Life Insurance, Axidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, ntf Weekly Indemnity
The Parties agree that a Joint Committee, representing Forest Industrial Relations Limited the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association the Council on Northr m Interior Forest Employee Relations Canadian Forest Products limited, Nonhiood Pulp and Timber Ltd Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA will be establishm to sluuy the most effective method of administration of the Plans, reporting lothe Parries bo later than July 1. 1984
Swtloii 4:. HQustao/BiblaB - HYA. Board Ifrf Trustwa
The Board of Tiustees, composed of two U) nKpocn representing IWA-CANADA and two (2) members representing the Company, are responsible for the administration of the TWA-Wtldwood Health and Welfare Plan, Tim Trustees are also responsible for the selection of carrier, funding, adjudication of compassionate appeals, and Health and Welfare problems directly related to the Plan.
Section 5; Insurance Cor era tc
The following coverage will be instituted with ^overage as set out below
a)	Group Life Insurance for each qualified [fcmployee as follows:
effective July 1, 1991 effective July 1, 1992 effective July ), 1993
b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment inpjiance ior each qualified empfo/ee as follows:
effective July I, 1992	$ 45,000.00
effective July 1, 1993	$ *5,QQQ.0Q
Weekly Indemnity as follows:
Effective January l, 1992, in the Imounl of ftxr huncted and twenty-sbc dollars (W26 00) per week for fifty-two |52) weeks;
In the case d disability caused ty non-ocbmatlonaJ illness, Weekly Indemnity benefits will be payable commendngthe tint dayjof any suefi absence where the Illness results In the claimant being hospitalized as aamd patient and In cases where surgery is performed which necessitates loss of timd from work
Absences due to the same or related causes will be considered one continuous absence unless the employee return* to full tirm|’work for at least foir (4) continuous weeks bet/^en absences
0 The Union agrees that if the Company miintfins weekly plan benefits which will meet the standard requirements for full premiuh reduction for \\age loss replacement plan under the Unemployment Insurance Ajttfufaj ersployees* 5/12th share of the premium reduction is retained as payment in kind Iri^he provistons of the Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits
28
g) Third Party Subrogation
The parties agree to recommend to the Trustees tor the Health and Welfare Plan that *ffactive on the date of ratificadou of tilt memorandum * third party SUbrogSltiOG CliUSfi be adopted jo that the Weekly indemnity PUi can be reimbursed from damagea recovered from a liable third party for illness, injkry or Income loss. The Plan will be entitled to recover the full amount of benefits pari to the member which exceeds (00% of the member'i pre-disability gross income. Gnus income will be calculated by using the member’s regular hourly job nle times (x)jHO hours. Trustees to work out the application and details, including (he deduction of]legal fees from the settlement and the execution of a reimburse mem agreement.
Stctloa 6i _ DeniilPUa
A Dental Plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
a)	Basic dental services Plan 'A' ■ Plan pays 80* pf approved schedule of feej.
b)	Prosthetics, crown! and bridgej Plan *B* - Plan |ay» 50 * of approved schedule of fees.
c)	Orthodontic Plan "C* Plan pays 50 * of approved schedule of fees. (Lifetime maximum «• 52,000.00). There shall be no waiting period for this benefit.
t)	Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by thtj Company.
b)	Participation in the plan is to be a condition of employment.
c)	Any new employee who has not worked ia covered employment in the last eighteen (18) months will be eligible to become a covered employee on the first day of the month following completion of the probationary period | However, for juch employee, coverage for the Medical Services Plan and for the EalenJed Health Benefit will apply on the first day of the month following the date of employjfnent.
d)	Coverage will be portable In all units coveiw oy Collective Agreements between members of Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Couocil on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canadian Forest Products Limited, North wood Pulp Jfc Timber Ud., Weld wood of Canada Limited, Houston Forest Products Co., Bab me Forest Products Limited and IWA-C AN AD A. and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the industry.
e)	Coverage during lay-off will be provided as fallows:
i) Employees with one (I) or moril yean seniority - six (6) months,
li) Employees with more than thjfee (3) months of seniority • Ihree (1) months.
iii) In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regular full-lime employment. An employee returns to regular full-lime employment wfea ho is employed for ten (10) working days within a floating period dr thirty (30) consocutive days.
iv) la addition, an employe* day and less than ten (10) addition to any lay-off c occurred dunng the perio
Weekly Indemnity coverage will be e( absence under Leave of Absence, Secthj that such employee is eligible for Weeil Of return to work. In order to qualify fa| to his place of residence in British Col hospitalized and satisfies the rcquireracn] of a compassionate appeal dealing with i Absence, the Trustees have the ngbt to
w returns to work for at least one (1) working working days will be covered for that month, in rerage to which he was entitled, if the recall of lay-off coverage.
ited for an employee on in extended leave of 4, Compassionate Leave, provided however ly Indemnity coverage on the agreed-upon day this coverage the employee must have returned irabU unless his disability required him to be of the claims adjudication carrier. In the case Leave of
'few certain circumstances.
Employees on extended Leave of Absendfe under Leave of Absence, Article IX - Section 4: Com passionate Leave will pay their pwn premiums for the Medical Services Ran, Extended Health Benefit, and Dental PUrL while tbe premiums for Group Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismcm beneei||t Insurance will be paid by the employer during such extended Leave of Absence
The Plan will become effective July 1st,
1982,
b) The Plan to ix funded on a 50/50 cost si hour per employee per hour worked, ofr the employee will contribute tO cents
Effective July I. 1993. the Plan to be contributions of twenty-two cents (22C) which the Industry will contribute eleven eleven certs 0 1C).
.I laring basis with contributions of 20 cents per hicb the Industry will contribute 10 cents and mencing July 1st, 1988.
funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis with >cr hour per employee per hour worked, of cents (IK) and the employee will contribute
c) A Board dTrustees will be constituted with equal representation from the Union and the Industry, lo be responsible for establishing the terms of the Plan and the on-going administration
d)
e)
The Trustees will select a qualifier actuary ra assist them and to ensure the establishment of actuarial! y sound reservei n ifund the benefits provided by the Ran.
The Trustees will enter into a Trust Agreement which will include provision for a procedure to settle any major dspute thatfijaj nrise with regard to the provisions of the Plan
30
ARTICLE XX i FENSION-ELAN 1 action
The Parties agree to establish * Pension Plan in accordance with me terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement of the Pension Subcommittee dated August 17,1977.
Section 2:
The Industry contribution to the Pension Plan of one dollar- seventy cents ($1.70) per hour per
employee per hour worked, which became effective July 1, 1988, will be increased by seventy cents (70C) per hour, effective July 1, 1992, to two dollars forty cents ($2.40) per hour per employee per how worked. Effective July 1, 1993, <|npk>yee contributions of ten cents (IOC) per hour per employee per hour worked will be added to the above contribution rate.
- JOB TRAINING
Covered by separate Local Agreement signed at each [Operation.
ARTICLE I	[PROGRAM
Section 1:
a)	Apprentices tip Tnlning Pro gram i will be la aiflconuncc with Supplement No. 3 A & 3B
or as revised oertaAer.
b)	When Implemented the Apprenticeship TralmnJProgram shall provide Out single persons undergoing training shill receive their wag«, less anv sum paid to them by the appropriate government authorities. Married persons shall receive their wages, less the amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to single persons, the intent being,
that the greater amount paid by the ProvlnclallMOvenunent to married persons shall not become a benefit to the Company
c)
d)
In cases where the Apprentice is in receipt Federal Government authorities, the employe: vocational school, the difference between the s Government authorities and the regular wages
[t a subsidy granted by the appropriate will pay the Apprentice while attending bsidy granted by the appropriate Federal
bf the employee.
That a Committee will be established to reviewiland upgrade the Apprenticeship Training
Program.
Section 2; Apprenticeship Selection Tests
Selection of Apprentices shall be governed by Supplement No, 3A, 3B, and 8
ARTICLE XXm - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANOll *
fiecdorvli ante______NolifinHon
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee -and jibe Union not less than six (6) months in advance of Inienl to institute material changes in wflrking methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or laying-off of employees.
31
Employees discharged, laid off or displaced from their regular job because of mechanization technological change or automation shall be entltlqp to severance pay of one week’s pay for each year of service with the Company. The traWl calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks pay. ThU section shall no! apply to employees covered by Section 3(b) below
Section 3; Rate Adjustment
An employee who ii set back to a lower j, change or automation will receive the setback for a period of three O) months he/sbe will be paid an adjusted rate whic| regular job at the time of the setback and of this six (6) month period the rate of ‘ such employee will tuve the option of severance pay as outlined In Section 2 within the above referred to six (6) mot
job because of mechanization, technological te of his/her regular job at the time of the nd for a further period of three (3) months will be midway between the rate of his/her e rate of his/her new regular job. At the end [s/ber new regular job will apply. However, linating his/her employment and accepting ve, providing he/she exercises this option period.
b) Following an application of (a) above, wnere an employee is set back to a lower paid job because of an application of Article VII Seniority brought on by mechanization, technological change or automation he/ahe will receive the rate of his/her regular Job at the time of the setback for a period of tint p (3) months and for a further penod of three (3) months he/jhc will be pud an adjuster I rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of tne sei jack and the rate of his/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period tb# rate of his/her new regular job will apply.
ARTICLE X20Y • SAFETY EQUIEMEHI
a) Where the following articles of eauipnoi are required to be used by the Company or
the Worker’s Compensation Board, the Company shall, at no cost to trie employee
Ui)
Supply employees with the jUticles of equipment as required.
worn or
damaged beyond repair, thajl is to say:
1.	Aprons
2.	Hard Hats and Line(5
3.	Eye, Ear and Nose potectivc Equipment
4.	Gloves	1
No!withstanding ihc fortgou , only when they are preset P the replacement will be ut
jg, all articles of equipment to be replaced * worn or damaged beyond repair; otherwise 6 ex pense of the employee
b) Where a Company has been supplyfflg M Ry equ ipment and ctotnmg at no cost to the employee a the effective dale of infs Ajtement, it will continue to ao so at no cost to the employee.
32
0
d)
The employer sbjUJ make coveralls available an I Panel Spriyen, 0 ers Filer-Grindemien.
Cav < Boot Allowance - An emp'oyee who Workers’ Compensation Board shall receive a
Effective July 1st, 1988 of one hundred dollar (5100 00).
I wniorlry, or
tf he hu ijlx (6) moothj or met*
maintain same lor use by Ena Sprayers sr House employee* ana Tradesmen
a required to wear ca.U boon by the iuaUy a cau k bool allowance.
li) Upon obtaining SIX (6) monthssmionly.
m) Seasonal lay-off shall oo< interfere with the qjal fy ng period herein
Upon the signing of the 1979 - 1981 Agreement, each Company at its own expense shall insure for damage or loss caused by fire or flood, the tools ol its employees whkb are required in the performance of their work. This provision for tool irjsurance shall also apply to loss by thefl where the tools are stored in a designated plice of safety within the control of the Corrpany and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insu ran cd cove rage proceed snal be subject to a deductible of $50.00 In respect to each employee's claftm.
ARTICLE XXVI • FIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT
The Fire Fighting Agreement will be In accordance with Supplement No. 4.
ARTICLE XXVU - B.C. NORTHERN INTERIORS SAWMILL AND FOLEY ARD
________________JOB EYALUAIIQN.FLAN j__________________________
Section 1:
»)
b)
c)
The Parties to this Agreement mutually agree lujiuirpicmcm one Job Evaluation Program for the sawrailling section, effective September |, 1979 in accordance with the principles and procedures set out in a minuil dated December, 1971 and entitled 'Interior Sawmill Job Evaluation Manual1 as amended July, 1973 tnd as further amended July, 1974; (but hereafter referred to as the B.C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Manual) and to exclude any categories not affe|ted by Sawmill Job Evaluation.
The attached Supplement No. 6, which provides f<W the administration of the program between the Parties to this Agreement shall flprm cart of the Collective Agreement effective September I, 1979.
The process of job eva~aton wil be conducted T accordance wtn me provisions d me B C Northern Interior Sami and Poleyard I j| Evaluat on Plan wn cn shall include the wage curve at set out in Section 2 be ow thlpresent manual present gudennes for manua interpretation existing and/or new bend marks, and existing grading! on recoro serving as a basis for s-bsequent evaluat orj un ess amended as prov ded for in Supplement No. 6.
d)	All categories ana recciw snaa suuia u prejenuj .. matched {job analysis) and/or evaluated in the Northern Interior Operations involved in the 8 C Northern Interior SawmiU and Poteyard Job Evaluation Plan, except where requests are submitted for evaluation or rvevaluation consistent wth [be principles and procedures of the Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyud Job Evaluation Plan.
c) The Parties agree, to work towards implementation of the revised B.C. Northern Interior Sa*rrill and Polcyird Job Evaluation Pla4|by July I, 1993,
Section 2:
The point tinge and increments for the twenty-setyen (27) groups in the Savwril and Poleyard
Wage Curve are u follows:
Group Lml		EfTJul 1/91		EfTJul 1/92		EfTJul 1/93	
	Points	Incrti	Rale	Inert.	Rate	Inert.	-Salt
2	1-60		17.07		17.07	..	17.92
3	61-70	.10	17.24	.07	17.24	.07	17.99
4	SI-93	.13	17.37	.13 .09	17.37 17.46	.13	18.22
6	196-113	.15	17.51	15	17.61	.15	18.46
8	166-195	.19	17.92	J9	17.92	.12	18.77
9	196-230	.16	18.08	.16	18.08	.16	18.93
10 12	271-320	.17	18.25	.19	18.25	.19	19.29
13	321-370	.18	18.82	.18	18.82	.18	19.49
14 15 16 17	371-420 421-470	.20	19.24	.20	19,24	.20	19.87
	571-620	.22	19.70	,22	19.48	.22	20.33
18	621-670	.21	19.91	.21	19.91	.21	20.76
19	671-730	.21	20.12	.21	20.12	.21	20.97
20 21	731-790	.23	20.61	.23	20.61	.23	21.46
22 23	851-910	.26	21.11	.26	21.11	.26	21.96
24 25	103.9715030	.53	21.89	.26	22.42	.53	22.74
26 27	1151-1210	.59	23.01	.59	23.01	.59	23.86
Section 3;
a)	The base rate in all Wage Supplements small be that set out in Section I (a) of Article V - Wages, and shall be the minimum ralq
b)	Incumbents in job categories for whiefj the wage rate is reduced as a result of Job Evalbattoir (Hwefnalter 1 eWiiwlT0“» " rep efrtte jobs') shall continue at the onginal rate.
ARTICLE XXVHl • CONTRACTING OUT
a)	"	...................... ... f^itojaes in the
b)	n writing. Until
ARTICLE M • DURATION Of AGREEMENT
Section 1;
The Panics hereto mutually ucree that this Agreement s(iaU be effective from and after the Tint (1st) day of July, 1991 to the thirtieth OOthhdAY of jJheTlW^IinJ TtlCTSHterTTrom year to ye*# uniusj" fUui iliumill WMlUu notice of contrary ptenGon is given by the Parties. The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficieniljr served at the Head Office of the Party of the First Part or at the Local Office on the Local Officers of the Union, Party of the Second Fart, at least four (4) months prior to the expiry of any yearly period. 1/ no agreement is reached at the expiration of this contract and negotiatidns are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time that a subsequent Agrcetqpnt is reached, or until negotiations are discontinued by either Party.
gatiaa.
FOR
BABINE FORES	CO
BURNS LAKE,
FOR:	,
IWACANM3A mCAL 1-44,
t
B. &. 0- E
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
BAB1NE-FQREST PRODUCTS LTD. EVALUATED WAGE SCALE
GROUP-1. Clean-up S.M. Clfilfl-up/P.M. Clean-up Yard
GROUP_2
Chipper Attendant/SM
strip Layer/Stacker Lo« Deck Chaaer/SM GROUP 3
Lumber Wr*pper/PM
strip Piler Trimmer Spotter/SM Kiln Swamper Strip Cutter/PM
Attendant
GROUP 4 Watchman Planer chain Puller Greenchain Puller Planer HoistOpentor/PM Log Deck Sorter/SM Trimmer Taller
GROUPS Car
Bander Operator/PM Elimlnator/SM
GROUP 7
Chip Car Attendant
CROUPS
Planer Feeder Planer
Stacker Operator
GROUP 9
Stacker Opentor/Kiln
LUx_im	hit V91	July 1/93
$17,07	$17.07	$17,92
$17.14	$17.14	$17.99
$17.24	$17.24	$18.09
*17.37	S17.37	818.22
*17.46	$17.46	$18.31
*17.61	*17.61	*18.45
$17.73	$17.73	$18.58
$17,92	$17,92	$18.77
$18.08	$18.08	$18.93
37
JuIy 1/91
SRQUT 19	S18.25
D6 Cat Operator
GROUP 11	$18.44
Planer Feeder Setup/PM
Barker Operator/18'/# l
Barker Operator/18'/#2
Forklift Operator/Plant
Auto Trimmer/SM
gbsuilii	sis 64
Chipping Edger/SM
Forklift Operator/Cat 950 Barker Operitor/30*
Gang Sawyer/CircuUj/SM Auto TriiamerJFJA Log Cut-off/Circular/fl Log Cw-off/Clrcular/r2 Log Cut-off/Circular/#3 Log Cut-off/Circular/I4
C&QUPI4
Chip n /Sa* Operator/SM ChipVSaw Tw n Band
Operator/SM Kiln Opera tor/Forklift
G&QUf.l5
Log Loadcr/Cat 966/Yard
$1902
$19.24
GRQVP 1$	519.48
Log Loaaer Cat 980 Chip'n'Saw Operator/Barker/l87#| Chip’n’Saw Operator/Barker/l8*/#2
jlv 1/92 (18.23
8.44
18.64
19.02
19.24
19.48
GRQUT 20
Planer Grader PM Log Loader/Wagner L130
GROW 21
#2 Planemun/PM
CROUP 23 • I Planerman/PM
$20.38	20.38
$20.61	10.61
321.11	Ml
38
July 1/93 $19.10
$19.29
$19.49
$19.87
$20.09
$20.33
$21.23
$21.46
S2I.96
GROUP 1 Clean-up/SM
July 1/91 $17.07
GROUT. 3	$17.24
Strip Layer/Stacker
Watchman
strip Pilcr
Kiln Swamper
Clean-up/CKipper Attendant
Trim spotter
*J* Bar Bin Attendant
GROUP A	$17.37
Lumber Wrapper Log Deck Chaser Planer chain Puller Planer Hoist Operator Chipper Attendini/S.M
SHOVES	$17.46
Log Sorter
Car Attendant Car Blocker Log Strapper
GBOUEJ	$17.92
Bander Operator Planer Feeder Planer Stacker OperalDt
GBQUEL5	$18.08
Planer Feeder/Hoist Stacker Operator/Kilfl
C&Q.UE 11	$18.44
Trackmobile Operator Barker Operator/18*/#I Barker Operator/18 */#2 Forklift/Cat 930/Car Loading Forklift/Cat 930/Planer
7.37
$17.46
$17.92
18.08 ill8.44
July 1/93 $17.92
$18.09
$18.22
$18.31
$18.77
$18 93 $19.29
39
July 1/91
GROUP 12
Auto Trimmcr/S.M. #1 & 12 Forklift/Cat '950/SM Forklift/Cat 966/Kiln Gang Sawycr/Circular Log Cul-ofT/Circular/ll Log Cut-off/Clrcular/12 Log Cut-off/ClrcuUr/O Log Cut-off/CItcuUj7#4
$18.64
GRQUP.13	518,82
Barker Operator/30
D7 Cat Operator Edger Optimizer
GROUP-14	$19.02
Chip’n'Saw Operator Chip’n'Saw Oper*tor/#2 Chip’n’Saw Operalor/Twin Band Yard Cl eaniivB qu i pment n Set Up Man
GROUP 13	$19.24
Kiln Opemor/Forklift Log Loader/Cat 966
GROUP 18	$19.91
Yard Equipment/Kiln Operator
CROUP. 2Q	$20,38
Log Loader/Wagner LI 20
GROUP 21	$20.61
Planer Grader
GROUP.,23	$21.11
II Plane rman
July 1/92 $18,64
$18.82
$19.02
$19.24
$19.91
$20.38
$20.61
$21.11
July 1/93 $19.49
$19.67
$19.87
$20.09
$20.76
$21.23
$21.46
$21.96
40
SirPPl.F.MENT N0.-1
N0R-EVALll»TFj»CATl^KES
MAINTENANCE CATEGORIES
July 1/91 July 1/92 July 1/P3
Auto Mechanic Helper nsycar $18.17 Auto Mechanic Helper, 2nd Year	12,433
Auto Mechanic Improver, 1st	Year	18,92
Auto Mechanic Improver, 2nd year (1st six months)	19,4?
Auto Mechanic tmorover, 2nd year (2nd six months)	20.26
Auto Mechanic	21.88
Auto Mechanic - Certified	22.09
$18.17
(8.435
18.92
19,47
20.26
21.88
22.09
319//2 (9 2S5 19,7?
20.32
21.11
22.73
22,94
Carpenter Helper, 1st year	18.17
Carpenter Helper, 2nd	year	}|,435
Carpenter improver, year	l!,92
Carpenter Improver, 2nd year (1st six months)	19.47
Carpenter Improver, 2nd year (2nd six months)	20.26
Carpenter	21.88
Carpenter * Certified	22,09
18.(7	19.02
18,435	19,285
(8,92	19,77
19,47	20.32
20.26	21.(1
21.88	22.73
22,09	22.94
Electrician Helper, 1st year Electrician Helper, 2nd year Electrician Improver, 1st year Electrician Improver, 2nd year (1st six months)
Electrician Improver, 2nd year (2nd six months)
Electrician
Electrician - Certified
18.17
13,435
13,92
20.42
22,063
22,275
18,435
18.92
19,47
20.42
22.065
22.275
19,02
19.235
19,77
20.32
21.27
22,915
23.125
Heavy Duty Mechanic Helper,
IS year	18.17
Heavy Duty Mechanic Helper.	„
2nd year	18-435
Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver,
tst yur	18.92
Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver,
2nd year (1st six months)	19.47
Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver,
2nd year (2nd six months)	20,42
Heavy Duty Mechanic	22,065
Heavy Duty Mechanic Certified 22,275
18.17	19.02
18.435	19,235
13.92	19.77
19.47	20 32
20.42	21.27
22.065	22.915
22 275	23.125
41
JilllLlM July 1/92 July 1/93
Machinist Helper, In year Machinist Helper, 2nd year Machinist Improver, 1st year Machinist Improver, 2nd year (1st six months)
Machinist Improver, 2nd year (second sex months) Machinist Machinist Certified Millwright Helper, In year Millwright Helper, 2sd year Millwright Improver, 1st year Millwright Improver, 2nd year (1st su months)
Millwright Improver. 2nd year (2nd six months)
Millwright
Millwright - Certified
$18,265	518.265
18.525	18.525
19,CO	19.00
19.56	19.56
20.42	20.42
22.065	22.065
22.275	22.21s
18.17	18.17
t8.435	18.435
18.92	18.92
19.47	19,47
20.42	20.42
22.065	22.065
22.275	22.275
$19,115
19.375
19.85
20.4!
21.27
22.915
23.125 19.02
19.285
19.77
20 J 2
21.27
22.915
23.125
Steamfitter/Pipefitter Hclocr.
1st y e a r	.	18.17
Steam fitter/Pipefitter Helper,
2nd year	18.435
Steamfiner/Pipefiner Improver,
1st year	18.92
S learn fitter/Pipefitter Improver,
2nd year (1st six months)	19.47
Steam fitter/Pipe fitter Improver,
2nd year (2nd six months)	20 42
Sieamfitter/Pipefitter	22.C65
Steamfitter/Pipefitter Cenif,ed	22,275
Welder
18.17
18.435
18,92
19,47
20,42
22,065
22.275
19,02
19,285
19,77
20/32
21.27
22.915
23,125
Group 3 (Uncertified)	2188
Croup 2 (PI-103 DPWI, o pw 7) 2 2.09 ••Oroup 1 (FI-101, Fl-102)	22 275
21,Si	22.71
22,09	22.94
22.275	23.125
Welders in this group must be qualified as required under the Standard Forest Industry Specifications and either haw corrpleled the three year apprenticeship or have worked in the trade for fix thousand (6000) hours as a welder
42
Grin derm an Oiler
Labourer
First Aid Man
Job Rale Plus
"C	Ticket	.30
'8'	Ticket	.40
'A'	Tickel	SO
• A A ' Tickel .60
July 1/91	MgJiSl	My
519.37
1B.595
S19.37
18.595
520.22
19.44
17.07	17.07	17.91
43
Non-Evaluated Categories
EUIKG RQflM CATEGORIES
July 1/91 July im
Saw Fitter, Helper	$18,17
Saw Fitter, 1st year completed 18.92 Saw Finer	21,695
Saw Finer (with certificate)	21.915
$18.17
18.92
21.695
21.915
Circular Saw Filer Helper	21.915
Circular Saw Filer	22.065
21.915
22,065
Circular Saw Pilar	(with	22,275
certificate)
Berrchman Helper	22.275
Henchman	22.75
Bene tun an (with Certificate)	22.96
22,275
22.75
22.96
COGS AND fiUNKBQUSE CKEWS
Baker (board supplied)	$18.35
Bull Cook (pay* board)	17,29
Flunky (pay* board)	17 29
Head Cook (board supplied)
(over thirty men)	19.34
Head Cook (board supplied)
(under thirty men\	18,79
Second Cook (board supplied)	18.36
IIS-33
17,29
J7.29
19,34
18,79
18.36
44
July 1/93
$19,02
19.77
22,545
22.765
22.765 22,915
23.125
23.125 23.60 23.81
$19.20
18.14
18.14
20,19
19.64
19.21
SUPW.EMEIMT Nf). 1.
ADJUSTMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS
la connection with (he Interpretation of certain clauses the 1981 • 1983 Contract b International Woodworkers of America and certaial Interior Operators, the interpretation! of the Contract have been agreed upon:
a)	VMth respect to call-time as covered r Article VII, Section 7 or Section 3. the following understanding has been reached:
if the workers present themselves for work afl0 due to any conditions beyond their control, there b no work available, they shall receive two hours pay unless sufficient warning has been given cancelling the work call for that day- However, if there is a possibility that wore may be available within twd hours of the regular starting time, the employer may request employee! to stay at theipiace of employment during the call time period.
b)	It ihall be deemed that sufficient notice has beeri given cancelling the work call for the first or day shift, provided notice has been giJen over Radio Station BVLD/CFLD, wherever possible the previous evening but not (iter than one and one-half (Ito) hours before shirt commences with two (2) broadcasts I within a half-hour period,
c)	It shall be deemed sufficient notice cancetlina *ne tail for work for nightshift when notice has been given over Radio Station BVLD/CFLD during the hours 12:00 noon to
1:00 p.m., but not liter than three hours before shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour period The above shall apply,only wrthin a fifty mile radus of Bums Lake or Houstonu applicable.
SUPPLEMENT NQ.3A
between
BABINE FOREST PRODUCTS LTD HOUSTON FOREST PRODUCTS CO,
and
I WA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424
in co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP & INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
The purpose of Ihii Program is Io improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed by the Company as Journeymen, Improvers, or Helpers in respect to the tndes named in Article fl
herein.
1,	Millwright	* 4 year program
2,	Heavy Duty Mechanic - 4 year program
3.	Steamfitter-Pipefitler	- 4 year program
4,	Machinist	*	4 year program
5.	Electrician	*	4 year program
6.	Welder	-	to be established
ARTICLE m jJaEMERAL-EMKCBBLES Sect ton 3l_. CfllltttIre Agrament
All provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this program
Once started in the Program, subject however Id Me provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue providing he passer all of Me prescribed tests end work is available to him
4ft
Swtton 3;—ItsU
Upon completion of each period of training in the Vocational School, an Apprentice will be rc*juu«dio passatui. in the event of failure to pars jukh a test, the Apprentice will he given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass qn the occasion of the second such test, he shall be required to withdraw from the Program. 1
Section 4:___Mwnln« of "Year*
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Improver it shall mea’ a period of not less than two hundred (200) woriring days, the said period tb include time spent at the Vocational School
Section 5;___Tralrlot Time Entitlement
Subject to the provisions hemin, a' Apprentice who is hired by the Company and who has had training in another apprenticeship plan will be give’ recognition of such training Lime.
Section ft Op-tht-Job-Iratoint
The Company will ensure that the Apprentices will be gjven the necessary onthejab practical training
ARTICLE IV ■ SELECTION OF APPRENTICES Section It___StltlOritt
When the Company rwjotree Apprentices, it is agreed lhat the vacancy will be posted in the
operation, and applicants selected inaccordance with (the provisions of Article Vm of the Collective Agreement
Section 2i____Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned as Helpers for,d three (3) month probationary period unless the applicant's previous experience renders suer (assignment unnecessary
Section 31 Entrance Standards
Entrance to the Program will in all cases be subject |o the applicant meeting the standards required for acceptance by the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
AU present Helpers and Improvers employed by the Company must enter the Program Helpers and Improvers who cannot qualify in the Program will be reclassified as Labourers with no reduction inrate of pay until such time asthey have aji opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain a job with equal or a higher rate of pay
47
Section 5:
Labourer* will cot be employed xl a manner thal will interfere with the application cf the Progrera.
Sectign ft_____Att Limit
Then will be no age limit for applicants.
Section It Assignment a* Hrincf
Ail successful applicants, except Welder Apprentices, (see appropriate appendix), will be registered u Apprentices and assigned as Helper* for aa eleven (I l) month period, prior lo attending Vocational School, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
A program for the aforementioned Welder Apprentices will be established by June 1st, 1968.
Section 1	5 Year Schedule
EiUox	At Operation
First Year Helper	first 11 months
Second Year Helper	first 11 months
Third Year Improver first II months Fourth Year Improver first 11 month* Fifth Year Improver first 11 months
First Year Helper first II months Second Year Helper first 11 months Third Year Improver first 11 mouths Fourth Year Improver first II months
Section 4:___S.Ytir SdfflWIt
First Year Helper first II months Second Year Improver fust I I months Third Year Improver first 11 months
Section 5:	Electrician
At School
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Notwithstanding the provisions rtf Section 2, 3 apd 4 herein, the Bedndan Apprentices shall be required I o lake eight (8) weeks at school ail nils each year cf the Program instead of four (4), with the period in the operation reduced acconfingly.
48
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribed!] (fcst before promotion from Helper to Improver.
Swticn 11____Jpurorrmin Qualifications
Subject to the conditions of this Section as listed belo^t, it is agrttd that following completion of Le period of required training and upon booorring certified, the journeyman shall receive the certified journeyman's rata of pay.
conditions under which the above will apply:
a) Only to a Journeyman who his gone through the indentured apprenticeship training program under the sponsorship or the Compan^ foi v/iich be is working.
b)
c)
d)
That he is woridng In the maintenance depimrient.
That all work normally done by the main tenant i persons employed in the maintenance department
That nothing in this clause shall prohibit the apprentices u they are not required.
b department is being performed by the it.
laying off of journeymen, helpers or
e) That a journeyman may, when facing laf-off Choose 10 exerase his seniority into categories outside of the maintenance area at (the job rate if his seniority and ability entitle him lo do SO.
Section 8;—Yoathml School Ptlar
IF any cf the periods provided far in Section l, 3, 4,Por 5 herein are exceeded by rtaion cf Vocational School facilities being unavailable, such Diiriod of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements.
Vi i WAGE RATES
Section 1; Rata and Increments
a)
b)
0
d)
Wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall b| that specified in the Wage Supplement.
An Apprentice who passes his test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his second tern year as a Helper.
The Wage Rate for an Improver shall be that ajs specified in the Wage Supplement.
An Apprentice who passes a test in the fourth period of vocational training shall receive an increment agreed lo between the Company £nd the Union during his seoond term as an Improver
e) Persons employed as Journeymen, anjl who are certified as such shall receive the certified rate for the trade, as agreed iq between the Companyand the Union
Pares, Lost Time Pay and School Expenses ire to be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as part of the cost of the Apprenticeship Ran, with the exception that the Company shall pay the single Apprentice while attending Vocational School, the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Govemrrient authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned
Married persons shall receive their wages, less authorities to single persons. The intent being Government authorities to married pereoos sha^l
In cases where the Apprentice is in receipt i Government authorities the Company wil pay the difference between the subsidy granted by and the regular wages of the employee conccrgi
(he amoert paid by the Provincial Government that the greater amount paid by the Provincial not become a benefit to the Company.
i subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal the Apprentice while attending Vocational School the appropriate Federal Government authorities ted.
Where an employee ran delay in taking one pi the tests under this Program, through no fault
of his own, the de ay shall not prejudice hij r|ght to wage .ncremenis prov ded for in Section Iherein.
n s vn. advisory board
There shall be an Advisory Board for each tri.de covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two representatives of the Industry,two from the. Union, one representing the Vocational School, and one from the Apprenticeship and IndustriaFTnunuig Branch.
SaUsoii______nm
The Board shall be responsible for advising fie Department of Labour, Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch regarding the Conti hi of tests standards of marking, and the school curriculum with respect to registered Apprentices. The Board shall not be responsible for the actual setting a. marking of tests
ARTICLE VP! . GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section.!:
Persons presently employed as Journeymen. who do nourish to became certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section .2;
Persons employed as Journeymen who lake the Trade •((nan Qualification Exam ind fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen
Section 3;
If a present Journeyman fads to pass the test for ajjvoluruary Tradesmen’s Qualifications Certificate, he can then become Indentured as an Apprentice fet no reduction in rate of pay.
Section 4:
There will be a three (3) man corrmttee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen'i Qualification, or who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen’s Qualification Act The Comrittee will also determine what vocational training ij necessary for persons indentured ks Annrentices. Representation a" the corrmttee shall consist of the fallowng
a. One Representative from the LHon b One Representative from the Industry,	,
e. One Representative from the ApprenticeshipBrtjich
Vocational training will be conducted during cfy courses! Textbooks and study material will be made available when required. 1
1 action
All Journeymen tradesmen shall lx requiredto have, 3110 shall not qualify for the Journeyman rate, unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessary to jxrform the job for which they arc hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of h e Journeyman.
Section 2;
The Improver shall be required to have and maintains htsic tool kit and lo be In the general process of budding up the necessary tools to equip himself for he Job
SttttanJi
The Helper gcnenlly ihiiJ not be required to own ioqm and sfoai) use those designated to hir However, in his own interest be should commence the process of building up a tool kit.
■ A.
BETWEEN:
AM).
BABINE FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. HOUSTON FOREST PRODUCTS CO.
rw A-CANADA
LOCAL 1-424, A.F.L., C.1.0,. C.L.C.
1.	Plan "A" • Siwfltter'j Apprenticeship Treeing Program To cover the trade of a
Siw fitter which is defined u follows
To be competent to tit ill type! of saws, cbm ar saws, band laws, gang saws, chain saws. etc.
a)	Operate, repair and adjust all saw shanJening equipment and toots.
b)	Basic techniques in welding of saws Maintain guides and water lines.
d) Basic techniques in benching of circular saws, slashers and trim saws
NOTE:	It is agreed that the Parties will not usit the training program to change the job
content of the jobs of the present Sawfitters.	1
- Circular Saw Filer Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of iCIrotilar Saw FilerwNch I* defined as follows;
Must be / qualified Saw Finer and be comment to bench ail circular and gang saws (tensioning, weld cracks and weld on teeth)-.: be able to nrpalr and maintain all filing room equipment; also must hive / working knowledge of allied mill equipment, only ss it applies to his job.	‘
53
2.
3.
Plan "C* • Bench man Apprenticeship graining Program,
To cover the trade of a Bcnchmin which is defined u follow:
Must be a qualified Saw Finer and Circular Saw Fiter, in addition be able to bench circular and band saws, Must have a working knowledge of all allied sawrill machinery
including the lining up of head ngs and grinding of band wheels
The Parties agree that the object of the above, Plans is to improve the knowiedgeand skill of personj employed u filers and liners w the industry.
The normal period of mining will be:
SAFETY is art important part of the tracing program u outlined below; a* such it forms an integral part of each phrase of the program.
a) Saw Fitters:	(
i
TTr-ippirmiceship Training • in p *nl three months
1st term 3 weeks at school, depending on size of class, • then writes an examination. 1 I tn( nthj in-pianttraining,
2nd term 3 weckj at school • tj>«» writes in examination.8 monthsin-plant
mining.
3rd term:	3 weeks at school • then write! an examination. If he passes the
test, he becomes certified as a Saw Fiber
b) Circular Set Fto;
Must spend a minimum of three (3) months in-plant training as M apprentice circular Saw Filer
lit t e n 4 weeks at school, then writes an examination. 8 months in-plan 1
training
2nd term 2 weeks at school then writes an examination, if he p»ss«J the test,
he become! a Certified Circular Saw Filer.
c) Benchman
Must spend t minimum of three (3) months in-plan 1 training as an apprentice Benchman,
1st term 3 weeks at school, then writes an examination II months in-plant training.
2nd term:	2 weeks at school,then writes an examination if he passes
becomes a certified Benchman
54
NOTE:	The above periods of imacbool training may be altered by mutual agreement,
subject to the experience la the Industry and In consultation with the Apprenticeship Branch of (ha Department of Education.
4.	All proviitons of the Collective Agreement wllj be applicable to apprentices In this Plan.
5.	Once started in this Plan the apprentice, subject however Io the provisions of the Collective Agreement, will have the right to continue in ary me program profiting he passes all of the prescribed tests and work bring available to him.
6.	a) Upon completion of each period of training in the Vocational School, m
apprentice Saw Finer will be required io pass a test In the event of failure to pass such a test, the apprentice Saw Fitiiei will be given a second opportunity, but
in the event of failure to past on the occasion of the second such test he will be required I o withdraw horn the Mu. y Saw Fitter apprentice who fails to at any stage in the Program &be allowed io apply his seniority as it u applied to a lay-off. Oo completion of the third period of training in Vocational School M apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to pass a test. On passing ib« teal he will becomea certified Saw Finer
b)	On completion d the first period d training in Vocational School M apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be required to pus % test, h the event of failure to pass such i test the ipprentice Circulir Ssm Filer wilt be aven e second opportunity but in Lo event of failure to pus on the occasion of tne second such test he will’ be required to withdraw from the program and return to L e poittioa of a Saw Fitter.
On completion of the second period of training in Vocational School in apprentice ClrcuUf Saw Flier will be required to pass 4 tot. On pasting thefest he will becomea Certified Circular Saw filer. In the event that ha fads iopass the test, he will be aiven a second opportunity 11 he passes the lest on the second occasion he becomes a Certified Circular Saw Filer. Should he tail to pars L e test oii Lo second occasion he will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that of e Saw Fitter
c)	Upon completion of the first period of Homing in Vocational School in apprentice frenchman will 1>e required to pur a tfst. fn L e event d failure to pass such a test the apprentice Benchmin will be gjven a second opportunity, but m the event erf failure to pass on the occasion of the second sudi test, he will be required to
withdraw from the program and return to the position of a Circular Saw Filer.
On completion of the second period of training In Vocational School an apprentice Benchm&n will be required to pass a test. On passing the test he win become a Certified Benchmin, In the event that he fails to pass the rest, he Wit be given a second opportunity. If he passes the test on the second occasion he
becomes a Certified Benchmin, Should he fail to pass the test on the second occasion he will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that of a Circular Saw Filer 7
7.	Wherever reference is made to a year as an Apprentice, it wrflf mein a period of not less than 200 wori<jng days, the said period to include lime spent at the Vocational School.
in the event a participant works less than 200 days and has attended Vocational School within the year, he may be given ao opportunity to take the required test
55
8. Subject to Vu provisions herein. aa spprenlice will be entitled to recognition of training time in the Plan to the ever* of his moving from one Company in the Industry to mother.
SELECTIQN-Qr ATTRENTiaS
I, jj Present trainees who are employed full-time will be indentured in the program
b) Upon entering the filing room, spires w II be indentured into the apprent.cesh p
Erogrm, subject to the Imitat on$ of OeoenJ Principles Point Five (5) contained erein.
c)
e)
0
$jb,ect to General Principles, Point Five (5), trainees wil be allowed to compete tneir program to meet Vu requirements of the operation in ivh cn they worn
Saw Fitter Apprentices - it U anted that the vacancy will be ported in the operation ana applicant* selected us accordance with the provsions of Article VIH • Seniority.
Circular Saw Filer Apprentices • it a screed that Vu vacancy will be posted m the operation and sppuemu selected in accordance with Ancle Vid Sen.onty Applicants most be Certified Saw Fitters.
Henchman Apprentices • it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article VUI • Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Saw Filers.
CEKPgCAIIQH OF PRESENT
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers and Henchmen employed in the Industry who do not wish to become certified shall Dot haYC their seniority rights prejudiced through lack of certification.
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers and Benchmen will have me right to write a qualifying examination in their respective classification, If they pass the examnabon they shall receive the appropriate certified rate, If they fail the examination they shall be slotted into the appropriate apprenticeship program with Uk view to upgrading and eventually becoming certified, Should they (ail is per the steps outlined in Point Six (a), (b) or (c) they will be subject to the praviiions outlined therein, Present Tradesmen who write the Tradesmen Qualification Examination will be tested on the basis of the job content of the present jobs in the fling mom in which they voric,
ADVISORY BOARD
I There Will be an Advisory Board consisting of two representatives of the industry, two from the Union, one representing the Vocational School and one from the Apprenticeship Branch
56
The Board will be responsible for advUling the appropriate school authorities, Department of Education and Department of Labour regaining the content of tests, standards of marking and the school curriculum.
The Board will not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests.
OUTLINE OF THE FILER'S AND FITTER'S .TRAINING PROGRAM FITTER’S APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
1st TERM:
iMa
Fitting band saws and 3 Fitting Circular Saws
Grinding wheels Instruction of types, dressing, etc.
Work Intfllved
Reasons for swage. Swage gangs and shaper adjustment. Reasons for crumble, etc. Tooth profile, Tooth alignment, Sharpener operation.
Setting u id sharpening of cut off saws. Automatic and nanl gumming. Swaging, shaping and Sharpening circular rip saws. Automatic and hand sharpenirg. Spring set circular rip saws. Sharpen! jg and retoothing Inserted tooth cut off and rip. 1
IndJEBMi
Review of 1st year	3
school training
Repair and adjust equipment used by a finer
AU phases of filing
room wekSng (acetylene)
Theory and practical
All phases of chainsaw filing
Carbide (lipping and dressing only)
As 1st j|jiar.
Gauge Flame Tip size
Stting
djustment
Torch l Penetn Weldinj
Preparii 5 Bruing ‘ Teeth -
andllng
on
Cracks
seats
in cariride irtssing
37
3rd TERM:
Renew 2nd Term	3
Preliminary circular saw anvil instructions
Capable d hammering slashers trim saws
GJde martenance on bandsavs straight and pressure.
Shear board setting Wheel scrapen WateT lines
Welding
ucvciuig, tensioning
plumbing
Theorty
Point build tp Tooth replacement Bcnct^ng of welds
CIRCULAR SAW FTLER'S APTRENTlCESHfp PROGRAM )st TERM:
To become proficient	4
in hammering &U circular saws, np and cut off used
in S3*rri]l and planer
imLlEBM*
Benching gang saws	2
stretcher rru and heat
Filing room machine maintenance Be able to main uut and repair all filing
room equipment
Trouble shooting of
Circular Saw machinery
Leveljknd tension, plumb All circular saws Including bolloJj ground (theory 108 COI Off)
Thin Wgers Carbide double arbour Reviejrof Basic Shop
Then rli
58
BENCHMAN APPRENTICESHIP PROCRAM lit TERM:
Instruction Breakdown W«ka
Complete bandsaw - bench 3 work (roll stretcher and
bra!)
Strain calculations Welding
Learn alignment of mill machines.
Head rig, edger, resaws, trim, cut-off, etc.
Band Mill Wheel
Grinding
2nd TERM:
Work
Bench banka's stretcher aO)1 *ndih efitircty
Further trailing Theory
f^ieiS'bi^uuet 2
capacity, Saw speeds,
Tooth spacing (circular and band)
Trouble Shooting.
Theory
SUPPLEMENT NO. 4 FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
The following terras and conditions thalibe applicable for the duration of the current Collective Agreement during* Company Responsibility Fires*.
It is understood that the terms of this Agreemeoi only apply to the employees in the employ of
the Company at the time the fire started, Any person hued for firefighting after the start Ot the fire will work under the rites ud conditions u required by the E C Forest Service
1.	DEFUVmQNS
I)____Arriifaital Fire!
Any fire oo< deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash ot waste, and which required active measures to extinguish
U_____Slash Egqpt flra
Any slash fire Ignited by the Company which has escaped the predetermined boundaries tod requLits active measures to extinguish,1
d______Slash Control Flrt;
Any slash fin ignited by the Company which is contained within the predetermined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered cut c£ control does not require active measures u coo tens plated in (a) and
(b) above
<n	Com dipt Responsibility Flrr.
Any fire which the Company U responsible for taking measures to extinguish pursuant to the provisions of the forest Act
e) Forest Service Fire:
Any fire m respect of which the B, C, Forest Service accepts responsibility for direction of measures to extinguish
n Fire flghtlM Rates:
The riles of pay for fighting Company Responsibility Furl hereinafter set out in this Agreement
f> Rwular Job Rita:
61
Rates of pay to employees for the performance of their regular jobs, uset out in the Wage Supplement ofthe Collective Agreement.
Statutory Ram:
Rater of pay established by E C Forest Servicefor fire fighting
. a
a.
£Q_
a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Company employees to fight fire oa Company controlled timber, or to tight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled timber which is threateruAf Company controlled timber, the Company will pay those employees at the fire fighting rates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement.
b)	When the B C,t Forest Service directs the Company to provide its employees for lighting flrea in circumstances other thin those set out in (a) above, those employees sill be paid at the statutory nu.
1______ORE Hfiflimfijms
tj The basic rate shall be the base rate shown in the Collective Agreement and shall apply to all employee* engaged in fighting Company Responsibility Fires except those performing one of the followingtfu fighting Jobs
CATEGORY
July 1/91 July 1/92 July 1/93
$18.41
18.79
18,40
17.92
Reaular Job
Crew Boss Cat Operator*
SKidder Operators Power Saw Operators Mechanics
Stip-ca Tank and/or_Trai!er Tanks	' '
Tanks with Pump/Drivff Operator 18.16 Water Tank Truck with Pulp/Drivec
17.72
Service Trucks/Bus Dnven	17.65
Pumpman	17.70
$18.41
18.79
18.40
17.92
Rate
18.16
17.72
17.65
17.70
119.26
19.64
19,25
18.77
19 01
18.57
18.50
18.54
b) Straight time rates will apply to all employees throughout the period during which the said employees are engaged in fire fighting This shall not include cook and bunkhouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanics or other categories servicing feeding or supplying fire tighten from areas removed from the area of the fire or fir, unless the duties performed during any day In question are exclusively related to fire fighting operations
c)	Regular jab rates will apply only tor the duration, of the regular production shift in which the fut started
d) When employees are working in job classifications during fire fighting other man those set out herein, job rates will apply
4. BOARD AND LODGING (WHILE FIGHTING COMPANY
a)	Employees who commute from home to camp are expected to "carry a lunch' Additional meals when required will be at Company expense
b)	Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense
61
c) Employees living in fly-in camps will receive board and lodging at Company expense L	TRAVEL TIME
Travel time for employees engaged m fire fighting will be paid in accordance with the Collective Agreement
fi-_S__L ASH
AV employees engaged in patrolling or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regular job rate and overtime conditions will apply
7.	INTERPRETATIVE NOTES
j) When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary rates and overtime conditions for fire patrol will revert to the normal conditions provided for in the Collective Agreement
The meaning of the word extinguish' as used in this Agreement shall include the act or process of suppression to the point when the fire requires fire patrolmen only
AV provisoes d the Collective Agreement except as amended or modrfied shall continue to apply
E. & O. E
62
SUPPLEMENT NO. 5
B.C NORTHERN INTERIOR SAWMILL A NT) POLE YARD JOB F,VALUATION PI AN
ARTICLE lMTUfrCITLES AMP. PROCEDURES
The Partiesto this Agreement mutually a_p e to implement and administer a Job Evaluation Program for the Northern Interior Sawmilling Section, effective September 1, 197$, in accordance with the principles and procedures adopted in the British Columbia Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Jcb Evaluation Manual (herein referred to as the “Manual1) Guidelines for manual interpretation ifld gradings on record will serve as the basis for subsequent evaluation consistent with any future decisions rendered by the Industry Standing Committee.
ARTICLE 2 • INDUSTRY. STAMPING COMMITTEE
There shill be a Standing Committee constituted and aimed tne BC Northern Intenor Industry Standing Committee to consist of one (I) Designated representative of the C.O.N IF.E R. Group, one (I) oes.gnated representative of Northwood Group, one (I) designated representative of Canad an Forest Product! L,m led. one (I) designated representative of the Babine/Houston Group, and two (2) or more desgnated representatives of Regional Cojnc.i No 1 of tne lnlemationil Woodworker! of America
The B.C Northern Interior Industry Standing Committee shall provide general oversight of the ope ratio n of the Plan with responsibility of:
i) Rescuing ill job evaluation problem* referred by the Sawmill Evaluation Committees
b) Resolving lay other job evaluation matters involving the Job Evaluation Plan which fall within its jurisdiction,
ARTICLE 4 - INDUSTRY JOB FVAL U ATI ON-COMMITTEE
a)	Each Company participating in the B C Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan shall designate and evaluatorto be its member representative to its Industry Job Evaluation Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Sawmill Job Evaluation Committee) and the IWA Regional Council No I shall designate one (I)
member representative
b)	V\herever possible the efforts by the members of the Sawmill Job Evaluation Committee may be consolidated fa practical purposes
ARTICLE 5 • FUNCTION OF SAWMILL EVALUATION COMMITTER
a)	The Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall assume general responsibility fa the uniform
administration of the Job Evaluation Program in accordance with Article 3 of this Supplement
b)	The tnaramous decision of he said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto
63
ARTICLE-6 ■ PLANT JQB REVIEW, COMMITTEE
i) Then shall be a Committee constituted in each Sawmill Plan named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referred to as "Review Committee') to consist of two (2) member* representative of Management ad two (2) mem ben representative of (he employees. At least one (I) representative of Management must be * member of the Plants salaried jtaff or Management and at least one (I) representative of the employee* must be in employee of the Plant whose job is subject u) Sawmill Job Evaluation Management may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed at the plant and the Union may do likewise except that neither party may choose u its representative ■ member of the Sawmill Evaluation Cornminee or any person who is employed IS a job evil in tor by the Company or by the Region^ Council No. 1 of the IWA.
b) The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly-paid employees for time lost from his regular work schedule while acting as • member of the Review Cornminee Of while presenting information, regarding hu own job before a regularly convened mating of the Review Committee The Company lhaiJ not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its fourty-paid employees
ARTICLE 7.-.FUNCTION QF REVIEW COMMITTEE
a)	The Review Committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee for further action, The document* required will Include a 'Request for Job Evaluation' form submitted either by an individual employee or by local Management, and a fully completed 'Job Study Record* form which provides sufficient Information for the subsequent work of the Sawmill Evaluation Cornminee. Tbe form of the document*, the pnxxdures for submitting and handling them and the lime limit* for compleuon may be amended a* required by tbe Sawmill Evaluation Committee in accordance with AiHwJf $ ¥ thi* Supplement.
b)	Dec sons of the Review Cornminee respecting the appropriateness of a request for eval-at on or re- evaluation, or respecting the adequacy^ document* sha I De by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established tune i mt the
Review Committee shall at the request d any one d its members immediately forward the Request for jod Evaiuaion, together with any other documents oq whicn there is unammojs agreement to the Sawmill Evaluation Cornminee and sha I then have no further responsibility ior documenting tnat request.
c)	When the SawmiB Evaluation Committee ha* maoe a deoson respecting the evaluaton d a joo it shall communicate that doos-on to the appropriate Review Comrnrttee The
Revew Committee w ll be respons D e for inform ng Management and the employee* concerned, giving reasons for the outcome when these are a va (able A decision of the Review Cornminee tnat an Applicat on for Joo Evauat.on snould not Ce forwarded to the Sawm .1 Evaluation Comm nee w.l, limilarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
d)	Nothing n this Article limts the right d the Sawmill Evajstion Commrttee to determine
the facts about any ,oo, by direct observation or otherwise or to amend any job descriptions Of gracing sheet su Dm tied to them in support of a Request lor lob Evaluation form
64
The Job Evaluation Program shall apply to ill hourly paid employees In the B. C. Northern Interior Sawmill Industry except those categories listed below:
Millwright
Machinist
Blacksmith
Welder
Pipefitter - including
Sprinklennu!
Mechanics
Electrician
Painter
Carpenter
Bricklayer Steam Finer Boilermaker
Saw Filers, Fitters, Benchman & Helpers
Engineers (Boiler House)
Firemen (Boiler House) Crinderman
Oilers and Improvers and Helpers
c the above trades
ARTICLE Jb.DIRECTION OF WORK
lob Evaluation descriptioni are written with the Intern to set forth the general duties and requirement! of the job and shall not be construed as irrposing aiy restriction on the right of the Company to create a new job or to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned In job descriptions, provided always that if the assignment of such duties changes the job content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation the Sawrill Evaluation Committee shall make such a review m accordance with the procedure set out herein.
ARTICLE 10 - RR-EVALUATION
i) V\hen a job has moved to a hKyragrotp is a result of re- evaluation, the resulting rate shall be retroactive from the date trial Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee for n-evatuation.
b) When a job moved to a lower grade as a result of re- evaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his job rate as a red circle rate jubject to the provisions of Article 12 herein.
ARTICLE 11 - NEW JOBS CREATED
Wien the Company has exercised its tight to create a new job, a temporary rate shall be set by Management.
a)	. When the evaluated rate for a new job in higher than the temporary rate, the resulting
rate shall be retroactive from the dare that the job was installed.
b)	Wien the evaluated nte for a new job is lower than the temporary rate. the incumbent (s) shall continue the temporary rate.
ARTICLE 12 ■ RED CIRCLE PROTECTION
3 The Company shal supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circle jobs, the said list io include the name of the employee, name of the job category filled, the evaluated rate for the job, and the actual rate paid.
65
b) Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher rate shall regain the red drde ate If subsequently found inoorrpetert to continue in the Ngher grade.
C) Employees holcing red drde jobs who are demoted Airing a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for the job to which they are assigned. If at a later date, an employee is reassigned to his former job, he shall regain his red circle rate.
d)	Wien the Company terminates a job, or a job is not occupied during a period erf one (1) year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established
e)	If &0 employee U temporarily transferred at the request of the Company, he shall retain his existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to his regular job, the said employee shaft regain his red circle rate.
Subject to the provisions herein set out Article VIII • Seniority of this Agreement shall continue to apply.
a)	Wien the Sawmll Evaluation Committee has beaded the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Rant Job Review Committee.
b)	Wien an employee’s request for re-evaluation results in no change being made in the job grade, or in a reduction, or when a Management request results in no change or in an increase, the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall give to the appropriate Review Committee a short statement of the reasons for the decision. We statement should not go into great detail, but should incScate the criteria used In sufficient depth to shew the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
c)	An evaluation done by the Sawmll Evaluation Committee shall be final and bindng on the parties, but at any time after five (5) years since the last evaluation or rvevaluation of a job, Management or an inefividuaf employee may submit a request for revaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
<T) If the Sawmill Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the Job Evaluation Program which falls within their jurisdiction the matter shall be referred to the B. C. Northern Interior lodustry Standing Committee for settlement.
e)	All txxrrrmcation between any Plant Review Committee and the Sawrrill Evaluation Committee referred to above snail be effective by sending one (\) copy 10 the Union representative or representatives on the Committee and one (1) copy d the Employer representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of the appropriate Union Local. In the case of communications to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee, the Union representative will be addressed care of the offices of Regional Council No l of the IV/A and the Employer representative care of the offices of the Company, The Employer representative will then designate their evaluator regarding the disposition of any request for job evaluation.
ARTICLE » - TRAINING PROGRAM
A program of training for members of the Revew Committee n each plant shall be instituted, tne aeta is of *vhicn shall be arranged oy those companies nciaaed and the WA Regional Council in the 0 C Nortnem ntenor Sawm 11 and Poleyard jod Evauation P an
67
SUPPLEMENT NO. 6 CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING
Section 1:
It is agreed that Plint Tradesmen who ire assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related to "new" construction with tradesmea employed by an outside contractor, plant tradesmen
will be paid the •outside" contractor^*) rate<»).
Section 2:
For the purpose of this Agreement "new" construction shall be defined as meaning:
(a)	The construction of major dcw buildings and major additions to existing buildings.
(b>	The addition of new or used major production machinery and related equipment not
previously in existence.
Section 3:
(i) Tradesmen" shall mean journeymen and apprentices in the following trades:
Machinist	Millwright
Steamfitter/Pipefitter	Welder
Electrician	Carpenter
(b)	"Contractor'* rate* shall only mean the hourty wage, paid by that contractor and not any other payment or working conditions.
(c)	“Contractor's Rate* wll not exceed the rate* for Simla- trades paid by IWA constnjctioa
companies.
■SI 1PP1 .F.MENTNCL-
SELECTION OF APPRENTICE PROCEDURE L____PURPOSE
The purpose of Ibis agreement is lo establish an equitable criteria^ which will give management reasonable assurance that Use apprentice, upon completion of his usdenhireshjp, will become a proficient tradesman and to assure the Union and iii members that the senior applicant who meets the criteria will become an apprentice,
The educational requirement for general trades is Grade 10 or equivalent and Grade 12 or
equivalent for the electrical trades,
3. APTITUDE-TESTING
Applicants will be tested in accordance with the bank of tests as recommended by the
Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour Testing procedure will be as follows
a)	A standard set of testing instructions end procedures will be developed and authorized by the parties to this agreement and communicated to appropriate management and union personnel.
b)	The passing grade for the tests will be established by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry Of Labour.
c)	The passing marks for the Mechanical Trades and Electrical tests ere established as being a combined requirement of. firstly, seventy percent (*70%) in the Mechanical Aptitudeand Space Relations segments of the tests, end. secondly, seventy percent (70%) in the overall final scoring of the tests.
d)	AU scoring computations of percentages in each section and overall scores of h e tests ere recorded as being rounded off la the next highest percentage point where any fraction of a percentage pint exists.
e)	Tests will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by Management a Union representative wll be present when h e tests em gven and marked
f)	Tests recommended far he self-evaluation will be made available and_may be taken fcy an interested employee. Failure to lake such tests shall not jeopardize an employee’s application far any apprenticeship.
A. RE-TESTING
4 li is agreed that when an applicant has failed to pass the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations Section of either the Mechanical or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-tested one (1) additional time for each ten.
69
b)	Results of all tests wUJ be retained on file in the company's office. An applicant who haj met the criteria and successfully passed the requisite test and is the senior for rry future apprenticeship posting within a throe (3) year period will be considered the successful applicant
c)	An applicant who qualifies and has passed the Mechanical Aptitude tod Space Relations section of any of the available teat, bill foiled the overall tost, will be eligible to bid and bo re-tested ** any future apprenticeship posting
d)	A master copy of the tests will be made available to TWA Regional Council No I on request
t) Sufficient copies of the (ear, tuiwer sheets and muting overlays will be maintained b Weld wood of Canid* Limited Vancouver Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch o the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia.
b)	Test materials will be supplied on request to those operations requiring ume end will be returned Immediately after um.
c)	Use of the tesu will be monitored by Weldwood of Canada, Vancouver Office and/or the Apprtolicesiup Branch of the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia Such monitoring will maintain a record of applicant's tests, successful applicant's Koref recorded, seniority applied and provide aollow-up of the successful applicant’s progress throuefrout training and an appropriate post training period. Other Information as deemed necessary by the parties to lius agreement wil be made available as agreed.
ft.	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The successful applicant win bo given a probationary period up to ninety (90) calendar days
7.	-. SELECTION REYIEff
V\here a dispute anses out of the selection Of aa apprentice, that cannot be resolved at the plant level the matter will be discussed by Management and h e Locd Union
8.	TRIAL PERIOD
This agreement is for a twelve (12) month trial period, from h e date of his agreement Either party may terminate his agreement upon one (1) month’s written notice after the completion of the eleventh month
m
SUPPLEMENT NO. 8
A,_____FLEXIBILITY OF HOURS of WORK
The Pirtics recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in the Hours of Work Article, for the express purpose of better utilization of manpower and capital such u:
Balancing of production Maintenance
Market requirements Even flow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuous scheduling {eg, Loggng, Engineers Watchmen)

SHIFT SCHEDULING
The parties a free that the following shift schedules will provide the flexibility required i o meet the needs expressed above
L
L
1
i
Lflirini
I) compressed schedules consisting of 10 hours.per day. 4 days per week;
ii) noo-conlinuous schedies such as 10 days on, 4 days off
Manufacturing
i)	2 crews working 4 days. 10 hours per shift;
ii)	up to 3 crews working Monday 1 o Saturday. 10 hours a shift not exceeding 40 hours per week;
iii)	employees working in continuous operations may be scheduled to
work shifts other than (i) or (ii) above
Maintenance
1) shifts of up to 10 hours per day. 40 hours per week, Monday to
Sunday inclusive;
ii) three shifts per week, not exceeding 12 hours per day.
Other .Shift!
It is understood the parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions
71
Any variation(s) to the Hours of Work Ankle shill be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
1,	Tbe Company and the local Union will meet to dscuss proposed shift schedules within the terms of tho Hours of Work Article It is anticipated that the Local Union will make sincere attempts to assist the Company wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules The parties must mutually agree on resolution of issues such as:
3 Details of shift
b)	Details of Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave, and Jury Duty.
c)	Maximum length of shifts for physically demanding work Accident prevention is a factor to be taken into account in determining shift lengths.
d)	The loss of hours/employment as a direct result of the implementation of alternate shift schedules.
e)	The use of employ&s for supplementary production work.
2.	The Camp or Plant Committee and the crew will be actively consulted by the Parties during the process.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
When as alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of the Collective ^yeement
will be administered on (he pmdple that an employee will not lose or gain any benefits
over his normal five-day schedule
I Tho Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intention is to increase the use of casual employees in place of regular employees
2.	DUTerenl parts d an operation may be scheduled on efifferent shifts
3.	Tho principle of the forty (40) hourweek is to be maintained over an averaging period
4.	This Article shall not change existing alternate shift agreements, unless agreed to by both parties.
5.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other Articles of the Collective Agreement which provide benefits after eight (8) hours are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
7.	An employee's rest days may vary from week to week under an alternate shift schedule. Employees shall not be paid premium pay for changes in iheis rest days In these clrcumstances.
8.	An employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shall receive rate and one-half lor work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest day results from the application of seniority or has been agreed to between the employee and (be Company.
9.	There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are changed because of the implementation of M alternate shift schedule
73
ATTACHMENT: RE: ARTICLE IX PAYMENT OF. STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
As a mull of 1977 negotiation* between Babine Forest Products Limited, and Houston Forest Products Co and the fWA Local 1-424, an ^reement his ban reached which will dvange the
present method of payment to employees as follows
EXAMPLE;
Lf« employee who regularly receives overtime p
his/her regular work schedule, this would be b Holiday pay,
An equipment operator wbeto regular hourly mb one-half hourovertime per day would receive-:
6 hours at $7.98	■* $63.84
30 minutes U I Vt “ 5-98 Total	-$69.82
It is understood the new method of payment will it becomes effective in 1978,
It is further understood that Shift Differential am new method of paying Statutory Holidays and R
part of his/her normal daily earnings for d for purposes of payment of statutory
ay is$7,981} and who regularly works
y to the Personal Floating Holiday when
vel Time payment s not induded in the
il Floating Holiday
74