LABOUR AGREEI\|iljL
SOURCE	.• y * i Ei .		
	-;> -		- /
TERM. •'		- ■ /	r/
BETWEEN
i No. CF
. EMPLOYEES
t NOMSRE I D'EALPLOYES
FraserPapers
FRASER PAPERS INC. AND
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA
LOCAL 2450
February 1, 1995 to January 31, 2000
2 ^ '£'17
00976 (05)
Labour Agreement Between
Fraser Papers Inc. And
United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America Local 2450
February 1, 1995 to January 31, 2000
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
1
1
2
7
7
7
8
10
12
13
14
15
15
16
18
19
20
22
23
23
24
25
25
26
27
29
29
29
30
30
30
Table of Contents
Purpose of Agreement Recognition Management Rights
Hiring. Service. Promotion, Demotion, Transfer, etc.
Term of Agreement
Wages
Interruption of Work Union Security Adjustment of Complaints Mill Rules
Mill Operation - Weekly Schedule
Hours of Work
Starting and Stopping Time
Employees wishing time off
Employees returning to work following time off
Sundays, Holidays and Vacations
Holidays with Pay
Floating Holiday
Funeral Leave and July and Crown Witness Wage Rates
Time Office Regulations Pay Cheques
Overtime Practice
Causes for Suspension or Discharge
Application of Discipline
Discipline of Mill Employees and Record of Same
Safety
Housekeeping Workmen’s Compensation Fire Services General
Posting of Notices Life Insurance
34	Group Hospitalization,Surgical and Medical Plan
35	Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan
36	Meal Allowance
37	Side Agreements
38	Contracting Out
-	Base Rate Schedule
-	Bonus Incentive Plan
-	Maintenance Trades Progression Sawmill • Pension Plan
-	Rules Governing Vacations with pay for Plaster Rock Sawmill Employees
APPENDIX "A"	Group Life Insurance
30
32
33
33
33
45
49
43
38
35
61
LABOUR AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN FRASER PAPERS INC., (hereinafter ref erred to asthe "Company”), c£ One Part,
AND	UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND
JOINERS OF AMERICA. LOCAL 2450. (hereinafter referred to as the "Union"), of the Other part
ARTICLE 1 -PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
1:01 The general purpose of this Agreement is. in the mutual interest of the employer and the employees, to provide for the operation of the mills of Fraser Papers Inc. at Plaster Rock. N.B., under methods which will further to the fullest extent possible, the safety of the employees, economy of operation, quantity and quality of output, cleanliness of plant and protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company and its employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively for the advancement of said conditions.
ARTICLE 2 -RECOGNITION
2:01 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all regular employees in the Plaster Rock mills and mill yards and any employees working in any new additions to the mill (such as but not limited to, debarkers and slashers) other than the Plant Manager, Production Superintendent. Personnel Supervisor. Maintenance Superintendent, supervisors, Shipping Co-ordinator, office staff, clerks, scalers, watchmen, Fraser "Wbods employees who may be associated with trucking, garage, loading, unloading and piling down of logs, reclaiming logs from piles, and all short-term jobs, such as grading, snowplowing or bulldozing. The Company will not hire loaders with operators if there are regular or spare classified loader operators and/or Company owned machines available to do the work.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3JU. It is agreed that it is the exclusive function and right of the Company to operate and manage all aspects of its business, including the limitation, curtailment and cessation
of any or all operations, except where any right to do so has been specifically restricted by the terms of this Agreement.
The Company reserves the right to adjust all or any of its crews arising out of any change in manufacturing process or in a change of equipment.
The Company agrees to review with the Union pertinent details and reasons for any major cutbacks or mill shutdown, including the shut down of a shift at the Dressing Mill. The Company will have such review with the Union in advance of such contemplated change.
Technological Change
a)	Technological change for the purposes of this agreement is defined as changes in the operation resulting from the introduction of new and different equipment which will reduce labour requirements.
b)	The Company agrees to give the Union as much advance notice as possible from the decision to make a technological change and the start-up of the new equipment. If there will be a reduction of two or more regular jobs, the advance notice will be at least six weeks in advance of start-up.
c)	The notice to the Union will advise of the new equipment and the earliest anticipated start-up date together with information as to the number of jobs to be eliminated and an offer to sit down with the Union executives to discuss the coming changes and other jobs which may be affected or training to be undertaken.
3:02
ARTICLE 4 ■ HIRING. SERVICE. PROMOTION. DEMOTION, TRANSFER,
When hiring new employees, the Company shall, in the first place, take into consideration the ability, both present and potential, of the prospective employees.
4:02 Recognising its obligation to help solve community problems when hiring new employees, the Management of the Company will give preference to residents of Plaster Rock. N.B., and surrounding area, provided qualifications and abilities are equal to other applicants.
2
4:03
a)	In cases of promotion, demotion, transfer, lay-off and recall, length of service will prevail when skill and experience are relatively equal.
b)	i) When a permanent vacancy on a classification occurs, the job will be posted for bid unless there is a regular spare assigned to the classification, who has been appointed to a regular spare status on that classification as the result of job bid award. If there is a permanent vacancy and there is a regular spare appointed by job bid, then the senior regular spare for that job will be the individual transferred to that classification.
An employee holding spare seniority to a classification as the result of a regular spare job bid award as indicated above will still retain seniority on his regular classification. The Company has the right to establish one or more spares for all regular classifications which require advance training and will post job bids for all classifications for which it determines a need for regular spares. Temporary spare assignments on a classification may be made as necessary but individuals so appointed without a job bid award will gain no seniority or rights in that classification and their experience as the result of a temporary spare assignment will not be used to give them precedence in a later job bid award. Temporary assignments will not exceed six (6) months.
ii) Planerman • It is agreed and understood that the position of "Feed Planer" is hereby eliminated and replaced by the position of "Planerman B". Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 4:03 b) i), an employee appointed to the position of "Planerman B" following a job posting will automatically progress to the position of "Planerman" after a period of two (2) years. An employee appointed as a spare to the position of "Planerman B" will advance to the status of "Planerman" after five hundred (500) days of work in the position of " Planerman B" but will retain spare status until such time as there is a permanent vacancy as either "Planerman B” or "Planerman".
c)	All applicants will be advised as to the disposition of their application and in the event senior employees are to be bypassed on a job bid selection. a Company representative will meet with the Union to review the skill, qualifications and other factors, where applicable, upon which the award is to be based.
d)	In the event of job reduction or elimination caused by lay-offs, changes in mill equipment or operating methods and/or procedures. the following will apply:
3
The selection of the employees to be laid off from active mill employment will be made on inverse order of mill seniority except that the company will have the right to retain more junior employees in place of more senior employees, where the junior employees retained have special skills or licenses that the Company determines are necessary to its operations.
In determining who will fill remaining jobs after a lay-off as covered above, the Company will:
A)	In continuing classifications give preference for retention to the senior (on the basis of mill seniority) of the employees who have indicated to the Personnel Supervisor, at least 24 working hours in advance, of their desire to continue working and who have been regularly assigned to that classification. The retained senior employee may be subject to bumping as indicated in B) below.
B)	Reassign, on the basis of mill seniority, employees laid-off from their regular classification and who have indicated to the Personnel Supervisor, at least twenty-four (24) working hours in advance, of their desire to continue working to a parallel or the nearest lower rated classification for which they have the experience and/or the skill and ability to fill to the Company's satisfaction without extensive training or break in. If there is no lower rated classification for which they have the experience and/or skill and ability to fill, they will be reassigned to the nearest higher rated classification for which they do have the experience and/or the ability to fill to the Company's satisfaction without extensive training or break-in. For employees displaced as a result of technological change as described in Article 3:04 above, the training and/or break-in period may be extended to thirty (30) days as required.
C)	In repositioning employees as the result of a job reduction or lay-off as described above. the Company agrees to accept mill seniority and the Union agrees to accept the Company's evaluation of the special skills required in the mill and those possessed by individual employees.
e)	The employee selected on a job bid will be subject to a thirty (30) working day probationary period during which time he will be assessed for continued assignment in the department and during such period he may elect to return to his former job. Seniority on a classification will be established on the date of the j ob bid award. An employee being removed or withdrawing from the classification within the thirty (30) working day period will return to his previous classification without less of seniority and will lose all seniority in the classification from which he was removed or withdrew. An employee awarded a job bid must stay on the job for a minimum of
one (1) year.
q if the Union should question the application by the Company of this provision, representatives of the Company will meet with Union representatives to discuss and review all the factors involved in the Company's selection of individuals affected.
g) A Labour/Management Committee will be established which will meet every month to discuss matters of mutual interest. The committee will consist of three (3) representatives each from the Company and the Union. A Business Representative from the Union and the Manager of Human Resources (or his representative) from the Company may also attend these meetings.
When it becomes necessary to fill vacantjobs, preference will be given to present employees in the bargaining unit, provided they have the ability to fulfill the requirements of the job, before recruiting from outside the unit.
Service or mill seniority shall mean time from last date of hire as a regular employee. Temporary or part trne student employees for vacation relief will start service or mill seniority if they become available for work on a normal basis and will immediately become eligible for Union membership if they have already worked in excess of thirty (30) days.
Service will be broken by discharge for cause, voluntary separation or refusal of an offer of employment or absence due to lay-off, sickness or accident, in excess of the following maximum periods:
Employee Service	Maximum Period
1 to 12 months	month for each full month of service
	with a maximum of 12 months
1 year to 5 years	12 months
5 years to 10 years	1 24 months
10 years or more	36 months
Employees hired for vacation or other relief or as students will retain seniority for only thirty (30) days after last day worked. Subsequent re-employment will be as a new employee without consecutive service.
4:08
a)	An employee is considered a new employee until he has completed thirty (30) days of work. During this period he will be considered probationary and will have full recourse to normal Union representation and the grievance procedure. During an employee's probationary period, the Company has, however, full and uncontestable right to terminate such employee if the Company decides. for any reason, that the probationary employee is or will prove to be unsatisfactory.
b)	Should a probationary employee be laid off before completing thirty (30) days of
employment and subsequently be rehired by the Company within ninety (90) days, his unbroken service with the Company prior to layoff will be counted in computing his probationary period. The employee's seniority date will be thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date of completion of his probationary period.
4:09
a)	List of service records will be prepared and posted at the Mill and Planer Mill on April 1 of each year and a copy will be forwarded to the Union. Such list will indicate each employee's regular classification and effective date and also spare classification and effective date, if any. Copies of all job bid awards will be forwarded to the Union.
b)	If an employee disagrees with his service credit. he must apply for a review within
forty-five (45) days of such posting.
4U0 An employee's service normally terminates upon reaching the age of sixty-five
(65). (An extension of up to three (3) months can be allowed by the Company, after
reaching the age limit).
ARTICLE 5 • TERM OF AGREEMENT
3 SJXL This Agreement shall be in effect from the fiat day of February, _1995 to and
___including the thirty-first day of January, 20CxX Either party desiring to amend this
agreement shall give to the other party not less than sixty (60) days written notice prior to the termination date requesting that the Agreement renewal be negotiated with amendments, and specifying the nature of the amendments no later than thirty (30)days prior to the termination of this Agreement.
6
ARTICLE 6 • WAGES
&01 It is mutually agreed that the rates of pay, as per attached schedule, form part of this Agreement and shall not be changed unless mutually agreed by the official representatives of the Union and the Plant Manager and Manager, Human Resources for the Company.
&H2 When a job undergoes major change or when a new classification becomes necessary. the Company will set a provisional rate for such classification and advise the Union of this provisional rate as promptly as possible. If the Union does not agree to accept the provisional rate, the Company and the Union will review such rate jointly. If agreement is not reached, the provisional rate set by the Company shall apply, but at the next negotiations for renewal of this Agreement, such provisional rate shall be subject to negotiations. Any adjustment arising out of the negotiation of this provisional rate. specifically agreed to apply to the period prior to the termination date of contract, shall be retroactive to the date the provisional rate applied.
ARTICLE 7 - INTERRUPTION OF WORK
It is agreed that there shall be no strikes, slowdowns, lockouts or other similar interruptions of work during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 8 -UNION SECURITY
&Q1 Any employee who is a member of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement and any employee who becomes a member or is reinstated as a member of the Union subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing.
2LH2 An employee within the Union's jurisdiction who is not a member of the Union. shall join the Union thirty (30)calendar days after his employment begins.
2LH3 In the event of the Union having to suspend a member, the Company shall be notified by the Union in writing at least seven (7) days before such suspension and the Company will not be asked to take any action in respect to such suspension if it is in any way contrary to the provisions of the Industrial Relations Act.
8'fti Subject to the requirements of any applicable provincial or federal law, the Employer shall upon receipt of individually signed authorization deduct from the wages
owing and payable to each employee within the Union’s jurisdiction, the first pay period of every month. the regular monthly membership dues of such employee and shall remit
the same monthly to the duly designated official of said local Union.
8:05 The Company shall, upon receipt of written authorization from an employee, deduct standard Union initiation fee from the wages owing and payable to him and remit the sam e to the duly designated official of the Union.
The Union shall advise the Company in writing of the uniform amount of the deductions for Initiation Fees and Dues to apply to each employee within its jurisdiction. If there should be any change in the amount of such deductions, the Company shall be
advised of such change by the Union two (2) weeks prior to its effective date.
In the event the Union requests weekly rather than monthly dues deductions, such change will start at the beginning cf the next month, with a minimum of two weeks advance notice.
With the monthly remittance of the Union dues, the Company shall furnish the Union with a duplicate statement showing the total amount deducted and the names, personnel and Social Insurance Numbers of those employees from whom such deductions were made.
.8:08 The Company shall not be responsible for collecting any past or future arrears in Union dues, but shall be obliged only to check off monthly a fixed amount as long as the wages owing and payable to an employee within Union jurisdiction are sufficient to cover this deduction.
Non-Union supervisory personnel shall not perform routine bargaining unit work which would normally be a function of an employee listed in the job classifications covered by this agreement, including new job classifications involving production or maintenance work, except for the purpose of instructions, or in case of emergency.
ARTICLE 9 • ADJUSTMENT OF COMPLAINTS
3:111 IT a complaint arises which an employee wishes to take up the Company, the employee involved will first discuss his difference with the Shift Supervisor. Such matter must be brought to the attention of the Shift Supervisor within four (4) calendar days of occurrence. While the employee has the right to be accompanied by his Shop Steward or his local Union representative. the employee himself must be present at this initial stage of the grievance procedure, If the employee is not satisfied with the decision
8
of the Shift Supervisor or fails to receive an answer from him within a further four (4) calendar days, the matter may, within a further two (2) calendar days be presented to the Plant Manager by the employee and/or his departmental union representative.
2LQ2 If within a further five (5) calendar days, the matter is not satisfactorily resolved by the Plant Manager or his representative then, within a further four (4) calendar days, the Union Grievance Committee may present the grievance in writing to the General Manager, Wood Products. A meeting at this step of the grievance procedure will include the General Manager, Wood Products and the Business Representative of the Carpenters and Joiners and/or the Business Agent of the Provincial Council of the Carpenters and Joiners or their designated representatives.
Within ten (10) calendar days of such meeting, the General Manager, Wood Products, or his representative, shall make a reply, in writing. stating the adjustment, if any, he has made.
am if the matter is not satisfactorily resolved within thirty (30) days, and if it is an alleged violation of the Labour Agreement, it may be referred to a Board of Arbitration composed of three members, one cf whom shall be appointed by the Company, one by the Union and the two so appointed shall select the third, who shall be Chairman. If the selection of a Chairman is not agreed upon within five (5) days, the Minister of Labour for the Province of New Brunswick shall be requested to name the Chairman. It is understood that the function of the Board of Arbitration shall be restricted to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement. It shall deal only with the specific questions submitted to it and shall not attempt to add to, subtract from or alter in any way the provisions of this Agreement. The Boards decision shall be final and binding on both parties.
Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of the arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman and the Board as a whole.
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays are excluded in calculating the time limits specified in the grievance procedure.
The time required for any procedure under the provisions of this Article may be changed by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
If an employee is thought to have been unjustly discharged or suspended, his case shall be reported in writing to the Plant Manager within forty-eight (48) hours, and, if on investigation he is found to have been unjustly discharged or suspended, the employee shall be reinstated without loss in pay.
9
ARTICLE 10 - MILL RULES
UMl Mill rules, as listed hereunder. form part of this Agreement and shall be enforced by the parties hereto.
1Q;fl2 The parties to this Agreement agree to abide by all Federal and Provincial laws now in force cr that may hereafter come ii force during the term of this Agreement.
10
MILL RULES - PLASTER ROCK SAWMILL
Effective February 1,1984
ARTICLE 11 -MILLOPERATION ■ WEEKLY SCHEDULE
11:01 The normal operating schedule of the sawmill and planing mills will be on a five (5) day per week hasis which will normally be Monday - Friday.
J-LOl Steam Plant personnel may be scheduled by the Company on a seven (7) days or any lesser basis.
If Saturday or Sunday chipping operations are required to maintain our pulpmills in operation or for emergency situations, employees with the necessary skills, will be offered work on a voluntary basis. If unable to get sufficient volunteers with the necessary skills, employees needed will be scheduled on an inverse seniority basis. Necessary weekend maintenance and repair work will continue to be scheduled on the present basis. In the event sufficient employees of the necessary skills should not be available on the normal basis, employees with the skills needed will be scheduled on an inverse seniority basis.
In the event that the Company requires 24 hours or seven (7) days operation or other major schedule change, such changes will be negotiated between the parties. Whenever possible, such changes will be negotiated 30 days prior to implementation.
JJJB Maintenance Schedule
When mill is operating one shift, Monday to Friday:
Day Shift	7:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. • xh hour lunch.
Night Shift	5:00 p.m. to 2:30 a.m. - Vi hour lunch.
When Mill is operating two shifts:
Shift No. I	Tuesday to Friday	7:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.	• Vi hour lunch.
Saturday	6:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.	- Vi hour lunch.
Shift No. 2	Monday to Thursday	- to follow night shift production crew.
Shift No. 3	Monday to Thursday	7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.	- 34 hour lunch.
12
Remainder of maintenance will work Monday to Friday 7:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m, with Vi hour for lunch.
Note: Total manpower may change according to production requirements.
Company agrees to adjust the hourly rate of the Head Industrial Mechanic, Plant Electrician, Tradesman lu class, Tradesman2nd class, Tradesman 3" class. Tradesman 4* class and Tradesman Helper by $0.50/hour conditional to the acceptance of the above maintenance schedule.
ARTICLE 12 -HOURS OF WORK
12^01 Working hours for mill operations - 9 hour shifts
Days:	Monday to Friday inclusive - 7:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon
12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Nights; Monday to Thursday inclusive * 7:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight
0:30 a.m. to 5:30 a.m
The Company will make every effort to see that employees do not work more than two (2) consecutive weeks on night shifts.
12iHl Regular starting hours of shifts may be adjusted by mutual agreement between the Company and Union.
Him There shall be a ten-minute break at the middle of each half of each shift.
12:04 Steam Boiler Room - Compressed workweek
a)	It is agreed that the employees working at the boiler room shall work twelve (12) hour shifts (compressed work week) on a rotating basis as described under paragraph
b)	below.
Labourers assigned to work at the boiler room will follow the compressed work week schedule but may be re-assigned to work elsewhere when not required at the boiler room.
b)	Work schedule:	6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m, (day shift)
6:00 p.m, to 6:00 a.m, (night shift)
13
Four days, day shift; four days off Four days, night shift; four days off
c)	■cfr^(hftnry holidays - Crews that would normally work on a statutory holiday will receive holiday pay equal to twelve (12) hours pay. Crews that would not normally work on a statutory holiday will receive holiday pay equal to nine (9) hours pay. Statutory holidays do not change date for employees working at the Boiler Room.
d)	Floating holidays -The boiler room employees will be eligible for floating holidays
as per Articles 18:01, 18:02 a) and 18:03 a). Such floating holidays for boiler room employees will be paid on the basis of I2 hours if taken on a scheduled work day or 9 hours if taken on a scheduled day off.
a)	Employees assigned as mill clean-up personnel will work the following schedule:
Day shift • Monday to Friday 5:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m: 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Night shift - Monday to Thursday 5:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.; 10:30 p.m. to 3:30 a,m,
ARTICLE 13 -STARTING AND STOPPING TIME
13:01 The employees shall be in their respective working places ready to begin work at the designated starting time for their department and shall remain at their places of work until the designated stopping time for their department.
13:02
a)	It is the duty of every employee to report as scheduled to this usual department unless he has made arrangements for leave of absence. If, through some unavoidable reason, an employee cannot report for work, he should advise the Security Office, before 6:30 a.m. if he is on the day shift and advise the Personnel Department before 4:00 p.m. if he is on the night shift.
b)	The Company shall provide proper forms in duplicate to be filled out stating time, reason and signature of person taking call, to be kept as record of such calls.
13:0-1 Employees who are instructed to report at a certain time and when, on reporting, no work is available because of a change in plans or an emergency situation, no time will be paid provided mill supervision has made a reasonable effort to advise the employee of such situation. at least two hours prior to the start of this shift. If mill supervision has
14
not made a reasonable effort to contact the employee. and if no work is available during his scheduled shift. the employee will be paid two (2) hours' time.
HiM In the event of a breakdown or emergency shutdown during the course of a shift, employees will be provided useful work until the lunch break or the end of the shift, whichever first occurs.
13:flS In the event of a breakdown or emergency shutdown before lunch, and if repairs are not completed and the employees are not released from work by 12:00 o'clock, they will be paid after lunch until released by their supervisor. with a minimum of four (4) hours.
13:06 An employee who is called in for emergency repair work will be paid time and one-half for hours worked on the call-in to the start cf his regular scheduled shift or until he leaves the mill. An employee called in more than one (1) hour before the start of his scheduled shift will be paid at time and one-half for hours worked with a minimum payment equivalent to four (4) hours straight time pay.
ARTICLE 14 - EMPLOYEES WISHING TIME OFF
MiHL An employee wishing time off must make arrangements with his Shift Supervisor or the replacement. Maintenance employees must make arrangements with the Maintenance Superintendent or his replacement.
Boiler Room employees must make arrangements with the Steam Plant Foreman or the Maintenance Superintendent.
l
ARTICLE 15 -EMPLOYEES RETURNING TO WORK FOLLOWING TIME OFF
lfbOl When an employee has been absent from scheduled work, he shall notify the Shift Supervisor on duty, the Personnel Office or the Security Office at least four (4) hours prior to the beginning of the regular working period in which he intends to resume work.
12i02 Whenever possible employees absent from work due to illness or accident for periods exceeding one (1) week should advise the Personnel Office by Thursday of the week preceding their return to work.
15
ARTICLE 16 -SUNDAYS. HOLIDAYS AND VACATIONS
16:01 Sundays -Sundays are defined as the twenty-four (24) hour period between 7:00 a.m. Sunday and 7;00 am Monday.
16*02 Holidays include - Effective January I, 1990:
New Year's Day Good Friday Dominion Day New Brunswick Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day
One-half working day before Christmas Christmas Day,
One-half working day after Christmas
16:03
a)	Some of the above holidays maybe changed to co-incide with the generally accepted observance of such holiday by public services (ie. schools and/or banks and/or government offices). If a Holiday falls on Friday the normal Friday schedule for that week will be moved back to Thursday.
b)	Christmas .ShuIdowns:
1995	from 7h00 p.m. December22 to
7H00 a.m. December27
1996	from7h00 p.m. December24 to
7h00 p.m. December 26
1997	from7h00 p.m. December24 to
7h00 a.m. December29
1998	from7h00 p.m, December 24 to
7h00 a.m. December29
16
1999	from7h00 p.m, December24 to 7h00 a.m. December 29
c)	Employees who meet the work and service requirements will receive holiday pay equal to the number of hours they would have been scheduled to work if the holidays fall on scheduled work days or nine (9) hours holiday pay if the holiday falls on a non-scheduled work day.
16-01
a)	New Year’s Shutdowns:
1995	fion7h00 p.m. December29 to
7h00 a.m. January 2, 1996
1996	from7h00 p.m. December 31 to
7h00 p.m. January 1, 1997
1997	fion7hOO p.m. December 31 to
7h00 p.m. January 1,1998
1998	from7h00 p.m. December 31 to
7h00a.m. January 4, 1999
1999	from 7h00 p.m. December 31 to
7h00 a.m. January 4,2000
b)	Employees who meet the work and service requirements will receive holiday pay equal to the number of hours they would have been scheduled to work if the holidays fall on scheduled work days or nine (9) hours holiday pay if the holiday falls on a non-scheduled work day.
16:05
Steam Plant and essential maintenance employees will work, as required, on all holidays.
ii)	Employees working on a holiday will retain their entitlement to holiday pay in accordance with Article 17.
iii)	Maintenance and Boiler Room employees required to work on a Holiday will have the choice of receiving holiday pay at that lime or laking another day off with pay at
17
a later date within the calendar year and at a time mutually agreed between the employee and the Company.
16:06 Vacations - Vacations with pay will be granted in accordance with rules governing Vacations, as attached hereto.
ARTICLE 17 ■ HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
17:01 Paid Holidays - During the term of this Agreement, the Company will recognize as paid shut down holidays the following days:
New Year's Day Good Friday Dominion Day New Brunswick Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day
One-half working day before Christmas Christmas Day
One-half working day after Christmas
17-07 Holiday pay for paid holidays will be paid at the individual's regular straight time rate excluding any premium or shift differential. Hours applicable to holiday pay will be equal to the straight time hours the employee would have worked had the day not been a holiday. In the event the employee's scheduled day off coincides with a holiday, the applicable number of hours will be the straight time hours of his last scheduled work day preceding the holiday at the same hourly rate of pay as for that day.
Pay for the holiday will apply to all qualified employees whether or not they would have been scheduled to work on the holiday in question.
If, through some circumstance, a qualified employee works on one of the above holidays, he will receive time and one half for hours worked in addition to the holiday allowance. A nonqualified employee working on one of the above holidays will still receive time and one half for hours worked on such holiday.
17:03 To qualify for holiday pay on any of the listed paid holidays, an employee must have worked his scheduled hours on his last scheduled work day preceding and first scheduled work day following such holiday, unless absence is due to provable illness or
18
unless permission for absence has been granted in writing by the Plant Manager.
HiM An employee does not qualify for a paid holiday if the employee:
i)	has been employed for less than sixty (60) days during the previous twelve (12)
calendar months prior to the holiday.
ii)	has not earned wages for part or all of each of at least five (5) out of the last thirty (30)days prior to the holiday.
iii)	having agreed to work on a paid holiday, does not report for and perform the work without reasonable cause.
ARTICLE 18 -FLOATING HOLIDAY
18:01 Regular employees with less than one (1) year's service will become eligible for one (1) floating holiday if they have worked the thirty (30) consecutive scheduled days preceding the arranged date for such holiday.
18:02
a)	Regular employees who have had one (1) or more continuous years of service will be entitled to two (2) floating holidays with pay each year providing they have worked at least thirty (30) days in the previous year.
Regular employees who have had one (I) or more continuous years of service but having worked less than thirty (30)days in the previous year will be eligible for one
(1) floating holiday after having completed fifteen (15) days of work during the current year and will be eligible for a second floating holiday after having completed thirty (30) days of work during the current year.
18:03
a)	Regular employees who have had two (2) or more continuous years of service will be entitled to three (3) floating holidays with pay each year providing they have worked at least forty-five (45) days in the previous year.
b) Regular employees who have had two (2) or more continuous years of service but having worked less than forty-five (45) days in the previous year will be eligible for one (1) floating holiday after having completed fifteen (15) days of work during the current year, they will be eligible for a second floating holiday after having
19
completed thirty (30) days of work during the current year and they will be eligible for a third floating holiday after having completed forty-five (45) days of work during the current year.
18:04
i)	Such holiday or holidays would be taken at a time mutually convenient to the employees and to Mill Management.
ii)	The Company will grant floating holidays on short notice if they can be taken without detriment to effective mill operations and suitable replacement is available at straight time and will endeavour lo promptly grant requests for floating holidays which are requested well in advance.
iii)	In the event more holidays are requested for a specific day than can be granted, those to be granted will be those tint requested.
iv)	Employees making written application for short-term leave of absence or floating holidays, will receive an answer from the Company, in writing, within 2 working days.
v)	Floating holidays may be taken by employees during the period January 1 to December 31, Floating holidays not taken or scheduled by November 1 of each year may be scheduled by supervision to be taken prior to December 31.
vi)	Employees who so prefer may elect to be paid for floating holidays without taking time off.
vii)	Employees will receive pay for floating holidays equal to their scheduled time lost if the holiday is taken on a scheduled work day or nine (9) hours of pay if taken on a scheduled day off.
ARTICLE 19 . FUNERAL LEAVE AND JURY AM) CROWN WITNESS 19:01
a)	Upon the death of a member of the immediate family, as indicated below, an employee will be entitled to a paid leave of absence of not more than five (5) days with pay equal to the number of scheduled hours lost.
20
spouse
children (natural or adopted) stepson (son of second spouse) stepdaughter (daughter of second spouse)
b)	Upon the death of one of the following members of the family, an employee will be entitled to a paid leave of absence of not more than three (3) days with pay equal to number cf scheduled hours lost.
father (natural or adoptive) mother (natural or adoptive) brother sister
father-in-law
mother-in-law
stepfather (mother's spouse by second marriage)
stepmother (father's spouse by second marriage)
grandfather
grandmother
son-in-law
daughter-in-law
grandchildren
Note: Boiler Room employees will be eligible for three (3) days or 36 hours of paid leave.
c)	These three (3) or five (5) days must be taken within seven (7) calendar days of the day of the funeral.
d)	He shall be paid for his regular hours at his regular straight time rate for each of the three (3) or five (5) scheduled working days lost.
e)	Pay will be at straight time even though one or more of the days of funeral leave occur on Sunday or a paid holiday. The regular straight time rate means the straight time rate of the job at which the employee would have worked had he not been on funeral leave.
f)	To be entitled to such paid leave of absence, an employee must be actively on the payroll and must have worked thirty (30)days.
21
19:0?. The Company agrees to grant to an employee a leave of absence without pay to attend funerals of other members of his immediate family not listed above.
19:03 The Company agrees to grant an unpaid leave of absence to employees not eligible for paid leave of absence under 19:01 0 to attend funerals of members of the immediate family listed under 19:01 a) orb).
HUM Jury Duty and Crown Witness
An employee required to be absent from work by reason of jury duty or subpoenaed as a Crown witness shall be paid the difference between jury pay or Crown witness pay and his regular straight time hourly rate for his regular scheduled hours on that day or those days.
ARTICLE 20 ■ WAGE RATES
20:01 Thejob classification of each employee shall be fixed by the supervisor in charge of the department and shall be reported each day under his authority.
20:02 The hourly rate that will be paid on any job will be the rate established on the standard rate schedule for that job.
SIUU An employee temporarily transferred by supervision to fill a vacancy on another job will receive the rate of the job to which transferred. or his regular hourly rate if it is higher and if his own job is continuing. however:
i)	An employee relieving another employee on a shift for a period totalling one (I) hour or more will receive the rate of the job to which he is relieving, or his
regular hourly rate if it is higher.
ii)	An employee assigned to train on another occupation will train at his regular hourly rate for hours actually worked if his own job is continuing.
iii)	In the event an employee is transferred due to his regular job being eliminated or temporarily not operating or when he has been laid off from his prior job, he will receive the rate of the job to which he is transferred or assigned, except in cases where the Company requires an operator to do or assist maintenance work on the equipment which he normally operates in which case he will be paid the rate of his classification while doing such work.
22
ARTICLE 21 -TIME OFFICE REGULATIONS
ZliHl Punching Clock
a)	Each employee, except those exempt by management, shall punch “In" each time he reports for duty and shall punch "Out" at the completion of his working period.
b)	Each employee shall punch his own number only.
c)	Employees leaving the mill at any time, except for scheduled lunch period or in the course of their employment, shall punch "Out".
21:02 Calculation of Pay T im e
a)	When an employee punches "In" at any time after the exact hour of the regular starting time, the pay time may be calculated from the nearest minute.
b)	When an employee punches "Out" at any time other than the exact hour of the regular quitting time, the pay time may be calculated to the nearest minute.
Note: Times will be rounded to nearest 1/100 hour for data processing purposes.
c)	An employee shall not be remunerated for work performed during lunch hour or outside regular scheduled hours unless such work has been authorized or approved by his immediate Supervisor.
d)	Employees may request verification of hours credited to their account during each pay period.
21dH Pay Days The regular pay days shall be from 10:00 a.m. Thursday of each
week, whenever possible. Pay cheques will be available for night shift employees before
they leave the mill site at the end cf their shift Thursday morning.
ARTICLE 22 • PAY CHEQUES
22:01 Pay cheques will be issued only to an employee in person. Should an employee be unable to come for his own cheque, the cheque will be issued to any other person upon the employee's written authorization provided that the person receiving the cheque signs a written acknowledgement.
23
Direct deposit will be instituted as soon as practical.
ARTICLE U - OVERTIME PRACTICE
22:M Overtime at the rate of time and one-half will be paid for all authorized hours worked in excess of the regular scheduled daily hours of the employee affected.
23:02
a)	Ifcuis worked on Sundays and holidays will be paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
b)	An employee required to work on a holiday will be permitted equivalent time off with pay in lieu of the paid holiday, if requested, and at a time mutually convenient to the Company. This compensating time off will have to be taken within the calendar year.
■2.L'Q3 Double time to be paid to an employee working more than nine (9) hours on a Statutory Holiday listed in this Agreement, for hours worked in excess of nine (9).
23:04 Overtime at the rate of time and one half will be paid for all authorized hours of required work by a regular employee on any of his regular days off. If an employee requests compensating time on Saturday for time lost during the week and there is useful work to be done without creating work specifically for this purpose. this work may be
provided at the discretion of the Company and will be paid at straight time.
Employees who do not work all regular scheduled work days in a work week because of Company approved absences for floating or regular holidays, funeral leaves, compensable accidents. Union business or training courses will remain eligible for time and one-half on Saturday.
23iH£ The Company may schedule Saturday clean-up work to be done at straight time if there are employees available who have not worked the full scheduled work week, Monday to Friday inclusive.
This work may be assigned in the following order of priority:
Regular employees who have not worked the full week, at their request:
2.	Regular spare list employees who have not worked 45 hours in the
week at straight time;
24
3.	Regular employees at overtime rate:
4,	Students.
ARTICLE 24 • CAUSES FOR SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE
24dU. An employee may be suspended or discharged for any of the following reasons:
a)	Refusal to comply with Company's rules
b)	Neglect cf duty
c)	Incompetence
d)	Sleeping on duty
e)	Bringing, using or possessing intoxicants on the Company's premises
f)	Reporting for duty under the influence of liquor
g)	Reporting for work under the influence of drugs or using drugs on Company premises except as prescribed by a licensed physician
h)	Smoking upon the Company's premises except in designated places
i)	Giving or taking a bribe of any nature as an inducement to obtaining work or retaining a position
j)	Destruction of Company's property Dishonesty
l)	The punching of any payroll number other than his own
m)	Disorderly conduct
n)	Disobedience
o)	Failure to report accidents at time	of Occurrence
p)	Any action considered to be to the detriment of good operation of the mill or which might affect the welfare or safety of a fellow employee.
24.02 Nothing contained in these rules shall be deemed to restrain or limit the Company's rights to discharge an employee for just cause.
ARTICLE25 . APPLICATION OFDISCIPLINE
25:01 A Shift Supervisor shall have the authority to temporarily suspend from service an employee under his supervision who violates the rules of the Company or the laws of the land while such employee is on duty or on the Company's premises.
25.412 Whenever a Shift Supervisor exercises such authority, he shall inform the employee concerned of the reasons for such suspension and explain to him his right of appeal to the Plant Manager or to his representative. A Union representative may be
25
present if the employee so requests.
2Sihl The Plant Manager or his representative shall advise a Union Representative and notify the employcc concerned to present himself at the Mill Office at a stated time in
order that the cause cf suspension may be investigated and properly disposed of so far as the discipline to be administered is concerned. The Plant Manager or his representative shall decide on the discipline to be inflicted after he has made full investigation of the circumstances connected with each case.
ARTICI ,E 26 • DISCIPIJNE OF MILL EMPLOYEES AND RECORD OF SAME
2LSH There shall be four distinct penalties applied where it is necessary to inflict
discipline on any of the employees of the Company consisting of:
a)	Formal reprimand ty the Shift Supervisor. A formal reprimand will be administered in the office and an opportunity will be given to a shop steward or other Union officialto be present during the interview, if requested by the employee concerned.
To be applied in the case of minor offences when the shift supervisor is satisfied by the offending employcc that the offence will not be repeated.
b)	A written warning ty the Plant Manager or his representative. To be applied in the case of repeated minor offences. Copy of action to the Union.
c)	Suspension from work without pay from one (U to fifteen (151 days according to the gravity of the offence and the previous record of the employee concerned. To be applied in case of first serious offence or continued or repeated minor ones when, in the judgement of the Plant Manager, or his representative, proper conduct and discipline on the part of such employcc can be assured without resorting to the penalty of dismissal. Copy of action to the Union.
d)	Extreme penalty of dismissal from service to be applied to all cases of flagrant or willful violation of rules of the Company or of the laws of the land. It may also be necessary to inflict this penally in the case of an employee who persists in continued and repeated minor violations of the Company's rules as shown by the discipline record of this employee. Copy cf action to the Union.
e)	All written discipline slips will be presented by a supervisor to the employee in person.
26
26:02 An employee's record will be cleared of discipline slips after one (1) year if there has been no further infraction.
ARTICLE 27 • SAFETY
27:01 Safety Practices
A safety organization for the prevention of industrial accidents and improvements in the Mill Safety, Sanitation and Administration of First Aid will be maintained at the plant. This organization will include a safety committee which will be set up and function in
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Section 14.
22:02 Procedure in Case of Accidents
Accidents no matter how slight shall be reponed at once by the employee to his foreman who shall send the injured employee to the clerk or person responsible for rendering First Aid.
22:03 Procedure in Case of Sickness
An employee unable through sickness to complete his tour of duty should report his condition to his foreman.	*
?7,1U Treatment of In juries
Except in emergency, treatment to injured employee shall only be administered by a qualified First Aid attendant.
77:05 Unsafe or Unsanitary Conditions
Any unsafe or unsanitary working conditions, whether of equipment or process. should be reported to the supervisor and to a member c£ the Joint Health and Safety Committee.
7,7:06 Safeguards
Safeguards are for protection from injuries and should not be removed except to make adjustments or repairs and on the completion of such work must be replaced.
Knowledge of Work
An employee is expected to study his j ob and adopt the safest method of performing it. 22:08 Clothing
a)	For his own safety an employee is expected to wear clothing suitable to his job.
avoiding the use of knitted jackets, flowing ties, loose sleeves, long hair, etc., when such might become entangled in moving equipment.
27
b)	Whenever necessary due to special circumstances, the Company will supply safety rubber boots or a raincoat. These articles will be charged to the employee's account by the Company when they arc issued to him. An employee who returns these boots
and/or raincoat on completion of the job will receive a credit.
c)	Leather aprons will be supplied to employees where needed. Such aprons will be charged to the employee's account by the Company when issued to him. Worn-out aprons will be replaced at no cost. The employees will receive a credit upon leaving this job classification if they return the aprons in a satisfactory condition.
d)	The Company will supply rainwear to employees working in the elements. Such rainwear will be charged to the employee's account by the Company when issued to hiirL Womout rainwear will be replaced at no cost. The employees will receive a credit upon leaving this job classification if they return the rainwear in a satisfactory condition.
e)	Gloves will be sold at cost with a maximum of $3.00 per pair and mitts will be sold at $5.00 per pair to regular employee when needed.
f)	Coveralls The Company will supply three (3) coveralls per year to regular or spare millwrights, steam plant engineers and the Planer Mill Working Foreman. Two (2) pairs per year will be supplied to regular or spare filers and electricians and one (1) pair per year will be supplied to regular car spare debarker operators, planer men, Bull Edger operator and mobile equipment operators. These employees will be responsible for the care and maintenance of their coveralls such as washing, cleaning, etc. The above-mentioned coveralls will be issued new, as required throughout the year providing the worn out coveralls are returned to the Company.
g)	Suitable protective clothing will be available for the use of employees applying paint in the Planer Mill.
h)	Safety gloves will be supplied to the Bull Edger Operator.
i)	Safety boots will be available for sale to employees at a discount of 20% from Company cost. All other safety items will be sold at cost.
77*09 Goggles
Goggles are provided for protection against eye injury. They must be used ty an
employee when engaged on vrork that presents an eye injury hazard.
28
23*10 Hearing Protection
Ear-muff protectors are provided for protection of the employees working in areas of high noise level. They must be used by the employees working in such areas. One set of custom car plugs will be supplied to employees every five (5) years • any other replacements will be charged to employees at cost price.
27:11 Occupational Safety Code
It is understood that the Company and the employees will abide by the New Brunswick Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations.
ARTICLE 28 . HOUSEKEEPING
28:01 Each employee shall cooperate in keeping the department in which he is working neat and clean and is expected to do his share towards keeping the plant in general neat and clean.
ARTICLE 29 -WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION
22dH The Company operates under the rules and regulations laid down by the New Brunswick Workplace Health, Safety and Compensation Commission.
ARTICLE 30 • FIRE SERVICES
30:01 For the protection cf Company's property, an employee is expected
a)	to report to his foreman or to his superior any conditions presenting a fire hazard;
b)	to report to his foreman or snprrica: the location of a fire should he discover one;
c)	to be available for fighting fre. if needed.
30:02 Fire equipment shall not be removed from its place or be used except in case of fire or by order from the chief of the mill fire brigade.
30:03 The mill fire alarm is one long blast on the mill whistle.
29
ARTICLE 31 - GENERAL
31:01 Materials which are Company's property shall not be removed from the premises unless permission has been granted in writing by the Plant Manager.
A________________________________________
32:01 Notices shall not be posted in the mill or dressing mills except upon the official bulletin boards and after permission for doing so has been obtained from the Personnel Supervisor's office.
ARTICLE 21 - LMIMMOi;
32LH1 Employees who have been working continuously for over a six month period are entitled to participate in cur Group Assurance Policy and it is hoped that all those eligible will take advantage of this. (See "AppendixA")
Life insurance coverage will cease on the first day of the month following nine (9) months of layoff for an employee who has been laid-off nine (9) consecutive months.
ARTICLE 34 - GROUP HOSPITALIZATION. SURGICAL AND MEDICAL PLAN
34:01 Company will pay full cost of tiiePlan. The Plan will be Plan M 1.3SC Effective 1st of month following ratification coverage will be extended to include a basic Dental Plan, Plan "E'.
Employees will become eligible for coverage after six (6) months of continuous service. BLUE CROSS
34:02 During period of temporary lay-off Blue Cross coverage can be maintained providing the employee pays in advance the full premium cost from the first cf the month following lay-off to the first of the month following recall. (Payment can be
made by a series of postdated cheques, if employee so desires.) Group Hospitalization Surgical and Medical Plan as well as Dental Plan coverage will cease on the first day of
the month following nine (9) months of layoff for any employee who has been laid-off for nine (9) consecutive months.
30
Note\ Allocation for eyeglass coverage will be changed, effective the first day of the month following ratification, to $175.00 every three (3) years for adults and $125.00 every twelve (12) months for children up to 18 years of age, with no restriction of amount applicable to refractions, lenses or frames.
Effective the first day of the month following ratification, coverage will include payments to licensed chiropractors up to $15.00 per visit to a maximum of $300.00 per calendar year. Total payment for any benefit or combination of benefits listed under “additional benefits” shall be limited to a maximum of $500.00 per participant in any calendar year.
34ifl3 Dental Plan will be improved the first day of the month following ratification to provide for payment of 80% of the dentist’s usual and customary fee up to 80% of the 1995 N.B. Dental Society Fee Guide. (Effective February 1, 1997 - 1996 Fee Guide; February 1, 1998 - 1997 Fee Guide; February 1, 1999 - 1998 Fee Guide). Additional dental care benefits will also be provided covering endodontic services, periodontic services, dentures and orthodontic services. Payment for these additional benefits shall be limited to 50% of the dentist’s usual and customary fee(s) up to 50% of the N.B, Dental Society Fee Guide.
Total payment for any benefit or combination of benefits listed under additional benefits of the Blue Cross contract shall be limited to a maximum of $500 per participant in any calendar year. Orthodontic benefits are limited to a lifetime maximum of $1,000 per participant.
No benefit shall be provided for any denture replacement made less than five (5) years after a denture placement or replacement. which was covered under this contract.
No benefit shall be provided for any denture replacement made necessary due to the loss or theft of a denture.
The employees will contribute to the dental plan as follows:	single coverage
$10.60/month, family coverage $24.07/month.
Dental plan coverage is mandatory for all eligible employees and any increases in premiums for dental plan coverage after its inception will be shared by the Company and the employees on a 50%/50% basis.
31
P	R	A	N	C__________E PLAN.
35:01 (The following is a brief summary of some of the benefits for which you may be eligible. All rights with respect to benefits will be governed solely by the Group Master Policy issued by the Insurance Company, details of which may be obtained from the Personnel Department,)
Effective February 1, 1981, the Company shall provide, at no premium cost to the employees, a Weekly Indemnity Insurance Program administered in accordance with the term of the Insurance Policy and containing the following governing provisions:
35:02 Participation
a)	Participation in this Plan is limited to regular employees who have completed six (6) months cf continuous employment.
b)	An eligible employee is entitled to coverage under this plan, provided he is actively
at work on the first day the plan becomes effective.
c)	An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall become covered under this plan following his return to continuous active full-time employment for a period of thirty (30)c alendar days at his normal occupation,
d)	An eligible employee absent from work due to lay-off at the effective date of the Plan, shall upon recall be entitled to coverage under the Plan on reporting to work.
35:03 Amount of Disability Benefits
For disabilitiescommencingon/or after the date of ratification:
a)	The amount of eligibility benefit shall be seventy percent (70%) of an employee's wage subject to a maximum weekly benefit of $426,00 or the amount of maximum U.I.C. benefit, whichever is greater.
b)	"Wages" mean an employee's regular scheduled straight time weekly earnings, based on 46 times his regular straight time classified rate.
c)	The benefit structure for individuals will be updated and adjusted to the individual's new regular rate, twice annually, on March I and September 1, for employees then actively at work.
32
35:04 Eligibility for Payment
a)	The Weekly Indemnity for disability from non-occupational injuries, sickness or disease shall commence at the beginning of the eighteenth week of the disability.
b)	The Weekly Indemnity shall be paid for a period not exceeding thirty-five (35) weeks for any one period of disability.
c)	Employees aged 65 and over will not be entitled to receive Weekly Indemnity benefits.
d)	Employees shall not be entitled to receive Weekly Indemnity benefits for any week for which they receive vacation pay from the Company.
ARTICLE 36 -MEAL ALLOWANCE
36:01 Any employee required to work more than one (1) hour beyond the end of this scheduled shift will be entitled to a meal allowance if not allowed an opportunity to go out to eat. Payment for meals, the cost of which shall not exceed $4.50 ($5.00 from February 1, 1997), shall be made to the approved supplier by the Company.
ARTICLE 37 • SIDE AGREEMENTS
37ifll All agreements between the Company and the Union are contained in this Labour Agreement or are attached to the Memorandum of Agreement as properly executed side agreements, reaffirmed and signed as part of the contract settlement of this Labour Agreement.
37:02 No future side or interpretative agreements will be recognized or effective unless signed by the President of the Union Local 2450, or his representative, and the Local Union on one part, and by the Plant Manager and the Manager, Human Resources. or his representative. on the other part.
ARTICLE 38 • CONTRACTING OUT
2&J11 The Company agrees not to contract out regular and normal maintenance work on buildings and equipment which is to be performed at the mill location. This Agreement shall not be interpreted to prevent the Company, at its discretion, from
33
contracting out new construction <r the installation of new equipment, from having
specialized repairs done by equipment manufacturers a* their representatives, a* from contracting for specialized serv ices for which the mill is not equipped or for which ow crews do not have the skills necessary to perform the function in an efficient manner.
34
FRASER PAPERS INC.
’’RULESGOVERNING VACATIONS WITH PAY FOR PLASTER ROCK SAWMILL EMPLOYEES”
Vacations with pay will be granted in accordance with the provisions of the New Brunswick Vacations with Pay Act. as amended.
Without prejudice of the rights of an employee under the Vacations with Pay Act, as amended, vacations with pay will be granted to the employees at the Plaster Rock Sawmill, under the following rules and conditions:
1.	Eligibility
The following class of employees will be eligible for vacation with pay:
Regular Employees
"Regular Employees" shall mean all employees who are employed in occupations, as listed on the Wage Schedule, which require their services on a year-round basis.
2.	Length of Vacation and Vacation Pay
a) Employees eligible for vacation as outlined above, will receive vacations and vacation pay based on the number of consecutive years of service as of April 1st of the calendar year in which such vacation applies, as follows:
Consecutive years of service	Number of weeks of vacation	Percent of gross earnings of previous calendar year to be paid as Vacation Pay
less than 1 year	1 day for each month of service (maximum 10 days)	4%
i to 3 years	2	4%
4 to 8 years	3	6%
9 to 19 years	4	8%
20 to 24 years	5	10%
and more	6	12%
35
b) Employees eligible for more than two (2) weeks' vacation may, at their option, forego such additional weeks of vacation in any year without reducing the vacation pay due them in that year, or their right to take full vacation in subsequent years.
Employees having worked less than 225 days in the previous calendar year may forego paid vacation leave and elect to draw their vacation pay in up to four (4) installments during their active working period. Employees making this election will not reduce their vacation pay due them in chat year, or their right to take full vacation in subsequent years.
of Vacations
All vacation schedules will be subject to the approval of the Plant Manager, but
in no case must they interfere with mill operations.
Scheduling Procedure
a)	Vacation eligibility list will be posted within 7 days following April 1.
b)	Vacations may be scheduled as approved from January 1 through December 31,
c)	Employees desiring choice of vacation on a seniority basis must submit their vacation requests in writing before May 1, Requests received after May I will be honored in the order received.
Id)	In order to permit a fair distribution of vacation periods no employee will
be permitted to schedule more than two weeks of vacation during the period June 15 to September 15.
e)	Vacation 'scheduling will normally be considered on a shift basis and the Plant Manager will determine the maximum number cf vacations that can be scheduled at any one time, and the number of employees with special skills that can be out so as to provide for vacations without adverse effect to operations.
f)	Vacations which have not been scheduled by October 1 will be scheduled by Plant Manager.
36
g)	Pay for approved vacations scheduled at least two weeks in advance will be made at the pay day prior to the start of the vacation.
4. General
a)	Vacations cannot be accumulated for future years
The Company shall make rules and regulations governing the administration of the Vacation with Pay Plan and may make such revisions therein as may be deemed necessary. The decision of the Company shall be final on all questions arising out of the administration cf the plan.
b)	The Company may close any part of its operations for vacation purposes during the months cf July to November cf each year. Such closure will be determined on a year to year basis and notice of such closure will be posted by May of each year. Employees affected by such a closure will be permitted to exercise seniority rights to bump into continuing jobs as per paragraph 4:03 d) and those employees not working will be required to use one (1) week of vacation entitlement for each week cf closure. In cases of closure for vacation purposes employees will be granted a two (2) week period following the posting of such closure in which they may schedule or reschedule their vacations based on seniority.
37
PENSION PLAN
The Pension Plan will be amended as follows:
The Company agrees to the following pension changes subject to the approval of Revenue Canada and provincial regulatory authorities and to all applicable federal and provincial laws.
1.	Conversion
With effect from January 1, 1997, the Pension Plan will be converted from a defined benefit pension plan to a defined contribution pension plan.
2.	Existing Plan Maintained • Age + Continuous Service Total 70
Each Member whose combined age and Continuos Service at December 31, 1996 totals 70 or more points may elect to continue contributions to and participation in the. existing career average defined benefit plan, (and not be eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension plan), with the early retirement benefits and bridging supplement described in thecollective agreement which expired cn January 31,1995. Members who continue participation in tide, existing plan who retire on or after January 1, 1997 will receiye a pension calculated according to the following formula:
The future service normal pension accrued to January 1, 1988, including the pension accrued as a result of benefit adjustments made before 1988;
plus
50% of the member’s required contributions made from January I, 1988
EmployeeRequiredContributions\ - 5% of scheduled earnings minus C/OPP contributions, “Scheduled earnings” means the employee’s classified rate multiplied by his normal scheduled hours.
3.	Defined Contributions Pension Plan
The primary features of the defined contribution plan are:
Employee Required Contributions: - 3.5% of Earnings. Deposited to each employee’s account each pay period. Note: The employee may choose to make
38
additional contributions to the plan by increasing the personal contribution rate up to the Revenue Canada permissible maximum. Such election should be made odor before January 1 of the year to which it applies.
Company Required Contributions - 2% of Earnings, plus an additional 1% of Earnings for each employee at January 1, 1997 whose combined age and Continuous Service totals 70 or over as of January 1, 1997. Deposited to each employee’s account each pay period.
Earnings - wages and other remuneration for services including production bonuses, night shift premiums, vacation pay, overtime, but excluding taxable benefits, special payments or indemnities and reimbursement for expenses.
Vesting- Immediate
Lucking-In - Immediate
Investment - Investment options for defined contribution plans for salaried employees of Fraser Papers Inc. (Canada).
Payments Options - Upon termination of employment or retirement, at the employee’s election. a transfer to another registered pension plan, a locked-in registered retirement savings plan. a life income fund, or the purchase of a deferred or immediate annuity.
4. Retain Pension Accrued Before 1997
a) Each employee who is a Member will be given the choice of retaining rights to pension benefits accrued under the defined benefit plan as of December 31, 1996, based on the greater of formula (A) or (B) below:
A) 1.65% of the Member’s average annual earnings during the five (5) years prior to 1997 for which earnings were the highest, multiplied by the Member’s Continuous Contributory Service to December 31.1996;
less
l/35th of the C/QPP benefits in effect in 1996, multiplied by the Member’s Continuous Contributory Service from January 1, 1996 to December 31, 1996, not exceeding 21 years.
39
Earnings for this purpose shall be the employee’s classified rate multiplied by his normal scheduled hours. However, in the event that an employee’s
scheduled earnings in any df the five 12-month periods immediately preceding his retirement do not reflect a normal annual schedule cf hours for that period for reasons other than a leave of absence, the employee’s earnings for that period will be adjusted to reflect his normal annual schedule of hours, provided the employee has been actively at work for st least 3 months during that 12-monthperiod. For a disabled employee, the classified rate to be used for this adjustment shall be the classified rate in effect immediately preceding the onset of his disability.
B) The future sendee normal pension accrued to the Member to January 1, 1988, including the pension accrued as a result of benefit adjustments made before 1988;
plus
50% of the Member’s Required Contributions made from January 1, 1988 to
Decembers 1, 1996
b)	Employees who are Members, who have twenty (20) years of Continuous Sendee at December 31, 1996 and who are 55 years of age on that date, who elect to retain their defined benefit pensions will also retain their rights to receive their accrued defined benefit pensions upon retirement from Continuous Service subject to the reductions specified in the following table, but always subject to compliance with the Income Tax Act (Canada):
Aee at Retirement	Entitlement Factor
58 to 65	100%
57	92%
56	84%
55	76%
c)	Employees who are Members, who have twenty (20) years of Continuous Service and are age 58 at December 31, 1996, and who elect to retain their defined benefit pensions will also retain their rights to receive the Bridging Supplement described in Section 6.05 of the Pension Plan.
40
d)	Members who have less than twenty (20) years of Continuous Service at December
31, 1996 and who elect to retain their defined benefit pensions will receive pensions after attaining vesting status (5 years of Continuous Service) reduced in accordance
with Section 6.04(b) of the Pension Plan.
5, Conversion Values » Pensions Accrued Before 1997
Each employee who is a Member will be permitted to elect before January 1, 1997 to convert the pension accrued to December 31, 1996 and to have the conversion value deposited to his account as cf January I, 1997 in the defined contribution pension plan. Each Member electing this conversion option shall have the commuted value of his pension accrued to December 31, 1996 calculated according to the following assumptions:
a)	CIA Minimum Transfer Value Guideline rates in effect for December 31, 1996;
b)	Accrued pensions calculated according to the formula in Paragraph 3 a) above:
c)	Early retirement reductions calculated according to Paragraphs 3 b) and 3 d) above:
d)	Each Member whose combined age and Continuous Sendee at December 31, 1996 totals 60 or more points, will receive the Bridging Supplement provided in Section 6,05 cf the Pension Plan from the date he would have reached both age 58 and twenty (20) years of Continuous Sendee. The monthly Bridging Supplement is $24 per month multiplied by the Member's Continuous Contributory Service, to a maximum cf 30 years, reducing to $ 15 per month for each such year, on the first day of the month following attainment of age 60, if the Member's Normal Early Retirement Date is before age 60; or $ 15 per month multiplied by the Member's Continuous Contributory Sendee, to a maximum of 30 years, if the Member's Normal Early Retirement Date is after attainment of age 60.
6. Information For Elections
The Company will prepare and provide to each Member sufficient explanations and benefit estimates for the Members to make informed decisions by December 16, 1996 about whether or not to participate in the conversion with respect to future and past service benefits.
41
7. Miscellaneous
It is the intention of Fraser Papers Inc; (Canada) to see Id the administration of the funds, however the Company would consider a request from the Union to have the administration of the funds transferred to their responsibility.
42
MAINTENANCE TRADES PROGRESSION SAWMILL
1.	Management will determine the number of Tradesmen and Tradesmen Helpers necessary to satisfy maintenance requirements and adjust maintenance complement as it may find necessary to meet changing conditions.
2.	a) There shall be four (4) classes of Tradesmen, progression to be from fourth
class through third, through second to first class.
b) There will be only one level in the classification of helper.
Classification	Minimum Education Requirements	Time in Trade
Helper	Level required by N.B. Dept, of Labur of Education for entry in the trade as apprentice	-
Tradesman 4th Class	Successful completion of 1st Division of N.B. Dept, of Labour course	1 year completed
Tradesman 3rd Class	Successful completion of 2nd Division of N.B. Dept, of Labour course	years completed
Tradesman 2nd Class	Successful completion cf 3rd Division of N.B. Dept, of Labour course	3 years completed
Tradesman 1st Qaas	Must have earnedjourneyman's ticket in the TRADE	4 years completed
In all cases pertaining to claims of educational status, it will be necessary to have available formal documentary proof of alleged status.
43
Regular employees who require courses so as to advance in their line cf promotion which can only be obtained through Block Release, will receive an allowance weekly. from the Company, of the difference between their regular
rate at .forty (40) hours per week and the total of all manpower and other allowances, except mileage and living allowances, to which they are entitled because cf taking the course.
On confirmation of successful completion cf a unit, the Company allowance will be increased by the difference between forty (40) and forty-five (45) hours for each week the employee was in attendance at the approved course.
In order to qualify for this allowance, advance permission must be obtained from the employee's superintendent and the Personnel Supervisor. Such permission may be withheld temporarily if the total number of absences would be such as to adversely affect efficiency. Opportunity will be given in order c£job seniority.
In no case will an employee be eligible for more than one Block Release allowance in any one year.
TIME IN TRADE will be granted for experience in the trade on comparable equipment.
Classification granted will not be greater than the level of educational status and minimum time in trade indicated.
It will be the employee's responsibility to advise this supervisor of any change in status. It will also be the employee's responsibility to request permission from the Mill Manager at least one (I) month ahead of time when he desires to attend a Block Release course.
The Company will cover the cost df renewal fees for tradesman licenses when
required for work.
Lead Hand
A tradesman will be classified as a lead hand and receive the contractual bonus rate of ten cents (10d) per hour only during such time as he directs the work of three or more men. The payment of lead hand rate is not to be interpreted as establishing seniority or promotional precedence.
44
PLASTER ROCK LUMBERMILL BASE RATE SCHEDULE
OCCUPATION
CLASSIFICATION	FEB. 1/95 FEB. 1/96 FEB. 1/97 FEB. 1/98 FEB. 1/99
GROUP0
Probationers (First thirty	9.95	10.13	10.38	10.78	11.18
(30) days of work)
Students
GROUP 1	10.82	11.00	11.25	11.65	12.05
*sj j Mill Cleaning
Chipper Utility ; Tilt Hoist Operator Labour
GROUP 2	11.00	11.18	11.43	11.83	12.23
Drum Debarker Operator Unscrambler Board Puller Planerman B
Planer Mill Resaw operator Trimmerman • Stetson Russ Stacker Operator (Planermill & Sawmill)
Log Chipper Operator Tallyman
Strapping Machine Operator
GROUP 3	11.24	11.42	11.67	12.07	12.47
Chipperman Yard Tallyman local Salesman Stockman Edge rm an Grader
Dry Kiln Operator Automatic Trimmer Operator Chip Sampler Chipper Canter Operator Mill Feed Operator
45
OCCUPATION
CLASSIFICATION FEB, 1/95 FEB. U96 FEB. 1/97 FEB. 1/98 FEB. 1/99
GROUP 4	11,50	11.78	12.03	12,43	12,83
Ring DebaAer Operator
-GROUPS	11.91	12.09	12.34	12,74	13,14
10” Bull E dger Operator
Barko Operator
SI aster Operator
Mobile Equipment Operator
GROUP 6	12,02	12.20	12,45	12,85	13,25
Sawyer
Canter IVdn Operator Planerruan
GROUP7
13,10	13.28	13.53	13,93	14.33
Planermill Working Foreman
Nov. 1/96
GROUP 8	_	14.50	14,50	14,90	15.30
RelieT-Supervisor Slasher Foreman
Note: Future vacancies for these positions will be posted. The Company will select firm among the applications and the Company decision will be final.
PLASTER ROCK LUMBERMILL
BASE RATE SCHEDULE
OCCUPATION
CLASSIFICATION FEB, 1/95 FEB. U96 FEB. 1/97 FEB. 1/98 FEB. 1/99
ROOM
Chief Filer Filing Foreman Filer- After two years Filer • After one year Filer Apprentice
13,76	13.94
13.07	13.25
12,16	12.34
11,71	11.89
11.22	11,40
14,19	14.59
13.50	13,90
12.59	12,99
12.14	12,54
11,65	12.05
14,99
14.30
13.39
12.94
12,45
46
OCCUPATION CLASSIFICATION
STEAM POWER
Foreman (2nd Class)
Fireman (2nd Class)
Fireman (3"1 Class)
Fireman (4” Class)
Apprentice after 6 months experience
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Head Industrial Mechanic
Plant Electrician Tradesman 1st Class Tradesman 2nd Class Tradesman 3" Class Tradesman 4” Class Tradesman -Helper
Note: These maintenance rates include the $0.50 per hour adjustment referred to in .Article 11:03.
Tradesmen will supply their own tools as per agreed lists. Wage rates Hr tradesmen
supplying their own tools will receive and adjustment df $0.40 per hour.
Employee holding valid CLA Grader Licences will receive $0.50 per hour additional when working as Lumber Graders, Trimmermen, Tallyman, Stacker Operators, Local Salesman, Stockman or Marker.
The Company will supply gloves free of charge up to a maximum of two (2) pairs per
week to employees doing naual piling df lumber. Rxn out gloves must be returned to the Company to obtain another pair.
Employee acting as Fire Chief in addition to his regular duties will receive an added
compensation of $75.00 per month.
Employee acting as Assistant Fire Chief in addition to his regular duties will receive an
added compensation cf $25.00 per month.
47
FEB. 1/95 FEB 1/96 FEB
14.48	14.66	15.16
14.01	14.19	14.69
13.14	13.32	13.82
12.62	12.80	13.30
11.92	12.10	12.60
14.73	14.91	15.16
14.80	14.98	15.23
14,26	14,44	14.69
13.34	13.52	13.77
12.59	12.77	13.02
12.04	12.22	1 2.47
11.38	11.56	11.81
1/97 FEB 1/98 FEB U99
15.56	15.96
15.09	15.49
14.22	14.62
13.70	14.10
13.00	13.40
15.56	15.96
15.63	16.03
15.09	15.49
14.17	14.57
13.42	13.82
12.87	13.27
12.21	12.61
Nisht Shift Premium
Effective February 1, 1995, a premium of forty-eight cents ($0.48) per hour shall be paid for all night shift work. Fifty cents ($0.50) per hour effective February 1, 1996 and fifty-two cents ($0.52) per hour effective February 1, 1997.
This premium shall not enter into the calculation df overtime,
Wgkfa Tickets
Industrial Mechanics having successfully completed one or more Block Releases as per the Maintenance Trades Progression will be eligible for the following allowances if in possession of valid Welding Tickers.
Qualified Welding Ticket	-	$0.20 per hour
Approved Welding Ticket	•	$0.10 per hour
■form/ fff
A lump sum payment of $250.00 per employee, payable to all employees who were actively on the payroll as of February 1, 1995 and who worked at least 500 hours during the year, unless absent through illness car industrial accident occurring after February 1, 1995.	~	'
48
PLASTER ROCK SAWMILL BONUS INCENTIVE PLAN Effective February 1,1982
Bonus to be based on production per shift at sawmill as per packages completed • a control will be necessary on package content to assure that quality is maintained and that grades and dimensions are not mixed to complete packages prematurely. Package volumes to be determined on basis of saleable lumber per package coming out of planer mill i.e. if a package of rough lumber contains 1800 fbm before drying and dressing but only 1500 fbm are saleable after package goes through planer mill, 1500 fbm will be volume used for calculating sawmill production. These figures will have to be monitored closely and adjustments made monthly at first in order to reflect as closely as possible the true production situation.
Bonus to be calculated on a per shift basis and paid weekly to all employees working at the sawmill. Shift production will be calculated as the average of the two shifts when the mill is operating on a two shift per day basis.
The Company agrees to meet with a committee from the Local Union each month for the purpose of reviewing the lumber inventory, production and shipment statements and to discuss any adjustments which are to be made in the lumber package conversion factors. At such meeting the Union representatives will be free to review any questions they believe to be adversely affecting production including problems of maintenance. manning and availability of spare parts.
In the event that the sawmill schedule is changed from a two shift per day basis to a one shift per day basis, the bonus schedule for two shift basis will continue to apply during the first two weeks following the change. The one shift schedule will be applied to any subsequent weeks worked on a one shift per day basis.
The bonus schedule for a two shift basis will apply to all shifts worked on a two shift per day basis.
In the event changes in process, manning or equipment are made which affect productivity, the standard production of the mill on which incentive awards are made may be adjusted upward or downward in order to maintain as nearly as possible the same relative opportunity for incentive earnings by individual employees as existed prior to the change. Any adjustments will be phased in at the rate of 1% adjustment every three (3) weeks.
49
The Bonus plan will be applicable to Sawmill and Planer Mill on independent basis as follows:
Sawmill
Bonus to be calculated on production per shift basis (average of two shifts when mill is operating on two shifts basis) same as at present. Hourly bonus table has been modified to reflect 1,000 fbm increments. This new table will be in effect starting the first day of the week following ratification.
Planer Mill
Applicable to all employees working at planer mill or associated with planer mill operations e,.g, machine operators handling dressed lumber and/or for shipment; local salesman.
Bonus to be based on production per shift at planer mill on basis of saleable output from the planer mill.
Bonus will be calculated daily and paid weekly. The hourly bonus to be paid for each day will be calculated by finding the applicable hourly bonus from the attached tables for each of the planers in operational that day and averaging the two (e.g. Stetson Ross operates on 1" lumber and produces 40,000 fbm results in hourly bonus of $0.66; Coastal operates on 2' lumber and produces 160,000 fbm, results in hourly bonus cf 1.01, Hourly bonus to be paid to all employees working in Planer Mill for this day is (0.66 + 1,01) + 2 * 0.835). If the Planer Mil operates on two (2) shifts per day basis, the hourly bonus to be paid for that day will be the average cf the two shifts.
In the event that either line operates for less than nine (9) hours in shift for reasons other than equipment breakdowns (e.g. lack of stock, etc.), the production for the iine(s) in question will be adjusted to reflect a full nine (9) hours cf production.
Export Lumber
Export lumber not dressed in the Planer Mill will not be counted as planer production for bonus purposes.
Effective on the first day of the week following ratification. bonus will be paid
on export lumber handled at the Planer Mill on the basis of $0,005 per hour per package handled - bonus to be paid to all employees on the day shift, (ie, no bonus to be paid if
50
an extra crew is brought in to do export packaging on night shift or on overtime.) Boiler Room Employees
Bonus for boiler room employees will be based on sawmill production bonus.
Bonus will be paid to Boiler Room employees Ebr all hours worked at straight time each week. Hourly bonus payment for days on which the sawmill does not operate will be the average hourly bonus payment paid during the week in which the nonoperating day occurs, be., Saturday bonus to be based on previous week and Sunday bonus to be based on following week.
When the mill is operating to produce chips only, the bonus will be paid on the combined daily chip production of both shifts as per the table below. Bonus will be paid actively at work for all hours worked on each day for which the bonus is applicable.
51
PLASTER ROCK • BONUS INCENTIVE PLAN
1st of month following rat January 1/1997 February 1 March 1 April 1 May 1 June 1 July 1 August I September 1 October 1 November 1 December 1 January 1/1998 February 1 March 1 April 1 1
June 1 July 1 August 1 September 1 October 1 November 1 December 1 January 1/1999
Sawmill
$0.0200/mfhm
0.0196
0.0192
0.0188
0.0184
0.0180
0.0176
0.0172
0.0168
0.0164
0.0160
0.0156
0.0152
0.0148
0.0144
0.0140
0.0136
0.0132
0.0128
0.0124
0.0120
0.0116
0.0112
0.0108
0.0104
0.0100
52
PLASTER ROCK - BONUS INCENTIVEPLAN
Ratification	Soecialtv Planer Pattern S0.0600/M
January 1/1997	0.0589
March 1	0.0578
May 1	0.0567
July 1	0.0556
September I	0.0545
November I	0.0534
January 1/1998	0.0524
March 1	0.0513
May 1	0.0502
July 1	0.0491
September 1	0.0480
November 1	0.0469
January 1/1999	0.0458
53
PLASTER ROCK • BONUS INCENTIVEPLAN
Ratification
January 1/1997 February 1 March 1 April 1 May I June 1 July 1 August I September I October I November I December I January 1/1998 February 1 March 1 April 1 May 1 June 1 July'
August 1 September 1 October I November 1 Deaarber 1 January 1/1999
Dimension or
Specialty Planer Reman - Studs S0.0350/M
0.0344
0.0338
0.0333
0.0327
0.0321
0.0315
0.0309
0.0303
0.0298
0.0292
0.0286
0.0280
0.0274
0.0268
0.0263
0.0257
0.0251
0.0245
0.0239
0.0233
0.0228
0.0222
0.0216
0.0210
54
PLASTER ROCK - BONUS INCENTIVE PLAN
Ratification
January 1/1997 February 1 March 1 April 1 May 1 June 1 July 1 August 1 September 1 October 1 November 1 December 1 January 1/1998 February 1 March 1 April 1 May 1 June 1 July 1 August 1 September 1 October 1 November 1 December 1 January 1/1999
Specialty Planer 1 x 4/5 $0.0500/M 0.0493 0.0487 0.0480 0.0473 0.0467 0.0460 0.0453 0.0447 0.0440 0.0433 0.0427 0.0420 0.0413 0.0407 0.0400 0.0393 0.0387 0.0380 0.0373 0.0367 0.0360 0.0353 0.0347 0.0340 0.0333
Ratification
January 1/1997 April 1 July 1 October 1 January 1/1998 April 1 July 1 October 1 January 1/1999
Specialty Planer 1x2/3 $0.07Q0/M 0.0684 0.0669 0.0653 0.0638 0.0622 0.0607 0.0591 0.0576 0.0560
55
PLASTER ROCK
BONUS INCENTIVE PLAN
Ratification
January 1/1997 February I March 1 April 1 Iv&y I June 1 July I August I September 1 October 1 November 1 December I January 1/1998 February 1 March I April 1 May 1 June 1 July I August I September 1 October I November 1 December 1 January 1/1999
Specialty Planer 1 x 6/7/8 S0.Q400/M
0.0395
0.0390
0.0386
0.0382
0.0377
0.0373
0.0368
0.0364
0.0359
0.0355
0.0350
0.0345
0.0341
0.0336
0.0332
0.0327
0.0323
0.0318
0.0314
0.0309
0.0305
0.0300
0.0295
0.0291
0.0286
56
PLASTER ROCK • BONUS INCENTIVE PLAN
Ratification June 1/1997
July i
August 1
September 1 October I November 1 December 1 January 1/1998 February 1 March I April 1 May 1 June 1 July 1 August 1 September 1 October 1 November 1 December 1 January 1/1999
Specialty Planer 1 x 10/12 S0.Q420/M 0.0415 0.0410 0.0404 0.0399 0.0394 0.0389 0.0384 0.0378 0.0373 0.0368 0.0363 0.0358 0.0351 0.0346 0.0341 0.0336 0.0331 0.0325 0.0320 0.0315
57
PLASTER ROCK - BONUS INCENTIVE PLAN
Ratification January 1/1997 February I March I
April 1 May 1 June I July 1
August I September 1 October 1 November I December 1 January 1/1998 February 1 March 1 April 1 May 1 June 1 July 1 August 1 September 1 October 1 November I December I January 1/1999
Snwlaltv Planer 2” Stork Including Studs S0.0330/M
0.0328
0.0322
0.0318
0.0312
0.0306
0.0302
0.0296
0.0290
0.0286
0.0280
0.0274
0.0270
0.0264
0.0258
0.0254
0.0248
0.0242
0.0238
0.0232
0.0226
0.0222
0.0216
0.0210
0.0206
0.0200
58
PLASTER ROCK * BONUS INCENTIVE PLAN
Ratification January 1/1997 February I
March 1 April 1 May 1 June 1 July 1 August 1 September 1 October 1 November 1 December 1 January 1/1998 February 1 Marrh 1 April 1 bfe/ l June I July 1 August 1 September 1 October 1 November 1 December I January 1/1999
Dimension Planer 2” $Q.0135/M 0.0133 0.0132 0.0130 0.0129 0.0127 0.0126 0.0124 0.0123 0.0121 0.0119 0.0118 0.0116 0.0115 0.0113 0.0112 0.0110 0.0108 0.0107 0.0105 0.0104 0.0102 0.0101 0.0099 0.0098 0.0096
59
DATED at Plaster Rock, New Brunswick, this 25 th day of June 1997
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS
OF AMERICA LOCAL2450	FRASER PAPERS INC.
/s/ Ken M. Lebei____________________ _________________________
President, Local 2450	General Manager,
VOOd Products
Business Representative
Plant Manager
/sJ Randal G. Ward______________ Is! R,B. Parkin________________
Member	Manager, Human Resources
wood Products
Zs/ Earlen Baker__________________ ________________________
Member	Superintendent.
Human Resources
/$J Roger Fournier Member
Wade Bell Member
/sJ Dennis Baker
60
Member
APPENDIX "A" GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
Life insurance provides coverage of $25,000 for all employees enrolled and is mandatory for all new employees upon completion of six (6) months continuous service.
Insurance coverage reduces to $2,500 with no premiums payable by the employee at early or regular retirement.
No benefit shall be payable in the event of permanent and total disability. However, insurance premiums shall be waived after twelve (12) months of disability and such waiver shall continue so long as the employee remains disabled.
Employees covered by Insurance Plan "B" shall be covered, while in the active employ of the Company, for $25,000 accidental death and dismemberment insurance.
The Company will pay the total cost for life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance.
MISCELLANEOUS
1.	The Company will provide a suitable lunch room at the steam plant for the use of steam plant employees.
2.	The Company will take adequate measures to see that the dry kilns are kept clean.
3.	The Company will see that a booster unit is available for starting employee vehicles, when required.
Productivity Gainsharing Plan
It is agreed that a joint committee be formed to design a productivity and gainsharing process to be recommended to the General Manager, VJbcd. Products by December 31,1996. This deadline may be extended by mutual agreement of both the Company and the Union. The goal of this joint productivity committee shall be to design a process which will maximize the efficiency of the Plaster Rock Lumber mill operations and provide for gainsharing for all employees involved in the process.
The services of a consultant(s) acceptable to both parties shall be retained to assist the joint productivity committee in the design of a process for recommendation to the General Manager, VJbcd. Products.
61
LETTER OF INTENT
by and between FRASER PAPERS INC. (CANADA) and
THE UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA
It is agreed and understood that employees doing maintenance equipment will be paid according to the following procedure:
* maintenance done by regular employee will be paid at the employee’s classified rate.
-	maintenance done by employee whose classification is a lower rate than equipment maintained will get the rate at which he is classified, (i.e. Board Puller serving Edger will get Board Puller’s rate).
-	the rate will never exceed the regular operator’s rate { i.e. servicing Debatker...rate should never exceed that classification’s rate)
Signed at Plaster Rock, N,S,; on this	day
February, 1997.
United Brotherhood of	Fraser Papers Inc. (Canada)
Carpenters & Joiners of America, Local 2450
Business Representative
Member
General Manager
Datfid
on
of
FRA.SSR PAPERS INC. (CANADA)
PLASTER ROCK LUMBERMILL
To:	All Employee*
From! Rod Cyr
Ravited:	February 6, 1997
SUBJECT 8 OVERTIME PROCEDURE
	
WEEKDAYS	WEEKENDS
REGULAR OPERATOR WILL BE ASKED FIRST TO WORK.	BOTH LISTS WILL BE COMBINED AND THE SENIOR EMPLOYEES WILL BE SCHEDULED ACCORDINGLY.
IF NOT AVAILABLE YOU GO TO LIST OF NAMES FOR WEEKDAYS AND SELECT BY SENIORITY.	DEADLINE FOR WEEKEND WORK IS AT NOON ON WEDNESDAY. IF A HOLIDAY ON FRIDAY, THE DEADLINE IS AT NOON ON TUESDAY.
TEE LIST OF WEEKDAY OVERTIME APPLIES TO THE OPERATION WHERE LISTED. (EE: SAWMILL USE SAWMILL LIST, PLANER USE PLANER LIST.. .)	EMPLOYEES WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO WORK ANY TWO CONSECUTIVE SHIFTS (SAFETY).
DEADLINE FOR WEEKDAY OVERTIME -3s00AM (NIGHT SHIFT) OR 3 »0 0PM (DAY SHIFT)	TEE ONLY TIME SENIORITY WILL BE BYPASSED FOR WEEKENDS IS STATED ON PAGE 22 (ARTICLE 23s05) OF THE LABOUR AGREEMENT.
NOTE t BOILER ROOM (BIOMASS FURL) ON WEEKENDS, THE SCHEDULED SENIOR OPERATOR WILL COME IN TO PUT IN FUEL. IF HE CAN'T,HE WILL ADVISE THE SECURITY OFFICERS. THEY WILL CALL TEE SENIOR OPERATOR AFTER HIM. . .UNTIL THEY GET ONE.
NOTE:
TIME OF CALLS WILL BE DOCUMENTED.
___■/& __________
ROD CYR/PERSONNEL SUPER,
CCl
DON COREY PAUL MCKINLEY BRUCE PARKIN LOCAL 2450
SHIFT SUPERVISORS (6)
B. ROOM (E. FAWCETT)
MOBILE EQUIPMENT OPERATORS (SPARE St REGULAR)