Collective Agreement
Between
Houston Forest Products Co. Babine Forest Products Co.
and
Industrial Wood and Allied Workers of Canada
Local 1-424
Begins:
07/01/2003
Terminates:
06/30/2009
00975(08)
INDEX
PAGE
ARTICLE
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM BARGAINING AGE NCY
B.C. NORTHERN INTERIOR SAWMILLAND POLEYARD JOB EVALUATION PLAN CONTRACTING OUT DEFINITION
DURATIONOF AGREEMENT
EDUCATION TRUST FUND
FIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT
FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
HEALTH AND WELFARE
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
INTERPRETATION AND ARBITRATION
JOB TRAINING
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
LONG TERM DISABILITY
MANAGEMENT
PAY DAYS
PENSION PLAN
RIGHT OF REFERENCE
SAFETY AND HEALTH
SAFETY EQUIPMENT
SENIORITY
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE TOOL INSURANCE UNION SECURITY VACATIONS WITH PAY WAGES
40
3
43
46
3
46
45
43
31 29 26
32 8
28
40 16 37
3
8
39
27
25
42 12 22
41
43 3
18
5
XXII
I
XXVII
XXIX
II
XXX
XXVIII XXVI
XVII XVI
XIII
XVIII
VII XV XXI
IX
XIX
III VI
XX
XIV XII
XXIV
VIII XI
XXIII
XXV
IV
X
V
SUPPLEMENTS
ADJUSTMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS	53
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING	83
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM	54
CONSTRUCTIONCONTRACTING	79
FIRE FIGHTINGAGREEMENT	69
SAWMILL JOB EVALUATION PLAN	72
SELECTION OF APPRENTICE PROCEDURE	80
WAGE SCALES	48
NEW AND EVOLVINGWORK	86
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 30th day of October, 2003
BETWEEN:
HOUSTON FOREST PRODUCTS CO. and
BABINE FOREST PRODUCTSCO.
(hereinafter known as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
I.W.A.-CANADA,
LOCAL 1-424. C.L.C.
(hereinafter known as the '"Union")
OFTHE SECONDPARI
1.	WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the parties heretothat this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationshipsbetween the employees and the Company,and to set forth herein the basic Agreement between the parties hereto, AND
2.	WHEREASthe Companyaccepts responsibilityto observeeach and all provisions and conditionsof this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Employees, AND
3.	WHEREASthe Union accepts responsibilityto observeeach and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Company,
NOW THEREFORE the Parties hereto mutuallyagree as follows:
ARTICLE I - BARGAININGAGENCY
Section I
The Company agrees to recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining representativeon behalf of its Employees properly and duly certified underthe appropriate regulationsin effectfrom time to time.
Section 2
The Party of the First Part agrees that the bargaining authority of the Party of the Second Partshall not be impaired duringtheterm ofthis new Collective Agreement. The Partyofthe First Part agreesthat the only certification they will recognize during the term of this new Agreement is that of the Party of the Second Part unless ordered by due processof law to recognize some other bargaining authority.
ARTICLE II -DEFINITION
The term "Employee" as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Company on whose behalfthe Industrial Wood and Allied Worker's of Canada, Local 1-424, has been certified as bargaining agents, except and excludingforemenand others having authorityto hire and fire, office workers, supervisory officials and salesmen.
ARTICLE HI -MANAGEMENT
Section 1
The management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the Employees are vested exclusively in the management, provided however that this will not be used for the purpose of discriminationagainst employees.
Section 2
The Company shall have the right to select its employees and to disciplinethem or discharge them for proper cause.
ARTICLE IV - UNION SECURITY
Section 1
The Company will co-operate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present to new employees, and to all Supervisors and Foremen, the Policy herein expressed.
Page 3
Section 2
a)	All employeesof Babine Forest ProductsLtd. who entered the employment of the Company on or after the 24th day of February, 1975, and all new Employees, shall, within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membershiptherein throughout the term of this Agreement. as a condition of continued employment.
b)	All employeesof Houston Forest ProductsCo. who enteredthe employmentof the Company on or afterthe 9th day of March, 1978, and all new Employees, shall, within thirty (30) calendar days afterthe execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
Section 3
Any employee who is a member in good standing, or is re-instatedas a member of the Union, shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement.
Section 4
Any employee who fails to maintain his membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments, shall be subject to discharge after seven (7) days written notice to the Company of the said Employee'srefusal to maintain his membership.
Section 5
a)	No employee shall besubjectto any penaltiesagainsthis applicationfor membershipor reinstatement,except as may be providedfor inthe IWA-CANADA Constitution, as revised 1979, and in accordancewith the Bylaws of Local 1-424, which the Local Union certified as being correct as of April 1981.
b)	Any employee who appliestojoin the Union pursuanttothe provisions herein and whose application is rejected bythe Union, shall not be subjectto discharge from employment.
Section 6
The Company shall require all new Employees at the time of hiring, to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate,the forms to be supplied by the Union. All check-off forms to be forwarded to the Local Union within fifteen (15) days of hiring.
Section 7
This assignment in the case of Employees already members cf the Union shall be effective immediately and for those Employees not previouslymembers of the Union. it
Page 4
shall become effectivethirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution.
The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuantto such assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked by the employee) to the Local Union named therein, no laterthan the 15th day of the month following the month in which the deduction was made from the employee, with a written statement of names of employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
Section 8
The Company shall furnish the Union with the Social Security number of each employee on its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded to the Union after the execution of this Agreement or after the Employee enters the employment of the Company, whichever date last occurs
Section 9
The Partiesagree that the Company shall deduct from an employee's wages and shall remit to the appropriate employee benefit plan, the employee'scontribution which is specified in any benefit plan agreed to by the parties to the Coast Master Agreement.
ARTICLE V -WAGES
Section I
a)	The Parties hereby agree that wages of all hourly rated employees covered by the Agreement shall be increased by two percent (2%)per hour, effective the first day of July, 2004, a further two percent (2%) per hour, effectivethe first day of July, 2005, two percent (2%) per hour, effectivethe first day of July, 2006, two percent (2%) per hour, effectivethe first day of July, 2007, and three percent (3%) per hour, effectivethe first day of July, 2008
b)	Return of Capital Employed fROCEfr Payments
Paymentswill be made to each employee in the following years based upon ROCE paymenttriggers. ROCEwill bebasedonthepreviouscalendaryearfor the combined Northern Interior and Central Interior lumber industry information compiled by Price Waterhouse Coopers.
Year	ROCE 5%	ROCE 10%	ROCE 15%	ROCE 20%+
2003	0	0	0	0
2004	$100	$250	$375	$500
2005	$100	$500	$750	$1,000
2006	$100	$250	$375	$500
2007	$100	$250	$375	$500
2008	$100	$250	$375	$500
ROCE will apply to all regular employees on the basis of increments of months worked in a calendar year. Regular employeeswho are laid off during the year
Page 5
will be paid on the basis of months in which they actuallyworked at least one day. For the purposes of this section, vacation will be considered as time worked. These payments do not apply to casual employees.
c)	The Parties agree that the minimum rate for common labour shall be:
j) $21.93 per hour effective July 1st, 2003. in $22.37 per houreffectiveJuly 1st, 2004. iii) $22.82 per houreffectiveJuly 1st, 2005. jV) $23.28 per hour effective July 1st, 2006. v\ $23.75 per houreffectiveJuly 1st, 2007. vj) $24.46 per houreffectiveJuly 1st, 2008.
The Company agrees to pay a Power Saw Allowance of ten dollars ($10.00) per day to designated employeeswho supply and maintaintheir own saws.
WELDERS:
EffectiveJuly 1st, 1981 the following shall be the classificationof welders in manufacturing conditional on the welders being qualified as required underthe Standard Forest Industry Welding Specifications and either having completed the three (3) year apprenticeshipprogram or having worked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours as a welder.
Group 1 -Welder (F1-101, F1-102)
Group2-Welder (F1-103, DPW1, DPW2)
Group 3 -Welder (Uncertified)
Employees employed as Welders who are requiredto renew their Welding Ticket shall be granted up to five (5) days paid Leave of Absence to attend school for instruction. The Company shall pay the cost of instruction and examination.
Section 2 Grading Tickets
a)	Lumber Graders- All Certified Lumber Graders shall receive the premium set out below, in addition to the Job Evaluation rate:
Class A Grading Certificate-twenty five cents (25 0) per hour Class B Grading Certificate-twenty cents (20 $?)pehour
Provided that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as Lumber Graders.
b)	Lumber Grading Certificates- Any employee holding a Class A or Class B Lumber Grading Certificate shall receivea premium of fifteen cents (15 0) per hourfor all hours worked. There shall be no stacking or pyramidingof premiums.
c)	Grading Tickets shall be permanentand valid certificates, but Graders shall
Page 6
remain subjectto the regulationsof I.L.M.A., C.L.M.A., C.O.F.I., P.L.I.B. and other regulatory bodies.
d)	All Lumber Graders holding grading certificatesshall attend upgrading classes as required.
e)	Lumber Graders who are requiredto attend upgradingclasses (grading rule changes) shall receive their regular straightjob rate for time spent in attending such classes.
Section 3	First Aid Attendants
Designated First Aid Attendants shall receive their job rate of pay plus the ticket premium rate.
All other employees holding valid First Aid Tickets shall receive a premium of five cents (5 0) per hour over and abovetheirjob rate. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
Section4
The Wage Scale attached hereto as Supplement No. 1, (A),(B), and (C), effective July 1,2003, is approved by both Partiesand may, subjectto mutual consent of both Parties, be revised once annually, or amendedthrough implementationof the Job Evaluation Program.
Section 5
It is agreed that employees engaged on contract or piece work shall not receive less money than the equivalent cf the hourly rate specified in the wage schedule for the number of hours worked in each pay period.
Section 6
The first (1st) shift which may vary in individual operations is the recognized day shift Hours worked outside the recognizedday shift shall be regarded as the second (2nd) and third (3rd) shifts.
Premium rate of thirty-one cents (31 cents) per hour will be paid for second (2nd) and third (3rd) shifts. A day shift employee working in excess of his regular shift will be paid rate and one-half without the differential.
Any employee on the second (2nd) or third (3rd) shift, working in excess of his/her regular shift shall receive rateand one-half. Forthe purposesofthe last sentence, rates shall be rate plus thirty-one cents (31 cents).
Persons employed on other than regular shifts shall be paid th irty-one cents (31 cents) premium rate for all hours worked outsidethe recognizedday shift.
Page7
Section 7
In the event that job conditions change, or new machinery is installed, or a new category is established, the Union and the representatives of the Company agree to meet to evaluate and implementthe wage rate(s) in accordance with the Job Evaluation Program.
ARTICLE VE - PAY DAYS
a)	The Company shall provide for pay days every second (2nd) week.
b)	Each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
ARTICLE VII - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 1
a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Friday inclusive.
b)	Overtime will be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a day, and for Saturday and/or Sunday, with the following exceptions.
c)	Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day.
H) Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
iii) Item (il) above shall not apply to employees who work on Sunday as a regular scheduled day.
jvj For purposesofthis provision, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as a shift worked.
d)	If a Statutory Holiday occurs during the work week, the employees shall only be required to work on Saturday and/or Sunday for the time lost due to the Statutory Holiday by mutual consent. For such work the Employee shall be paid rate and one-half.
Section2 Millwrights. Maintenance. Repair. Construction Employees and
Watchmen.
a)	The regular hours of work shall be five eight-hour days with two days of rest each week Monday through Sunday. Such days of rest will be consecutive days unless mutually agreed to be otherwise between the employee and the Company.
Page 8
b)	Overtime shall be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, on Sundays and upon the employee's two designated rest days, if worked, with the following exceptions:
c)	Double straighttime ratesshall be paidforthefollowing:
i)	Hoursworked inexcessofeleven(11) hoursperday.
Vi) Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
iii)	Item (ii) above shall notapplyto employeeswho workon Sunday as a regularscheduledday.
iv)	For purposesof this provision, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as a shift worked.
Section3 Firefighters. First Aid Men. Cook and Bunkhouse Employees
a)	The weekly and daily hours shall be in accordancewith the Hours of Work Act of
British Columbia.
b)	Time worked by cookhouse and bunkhouse employees shall be computed on a daily basis provided, however, that rate and one-half shall apply to hoursworked in excess of eight (8) per day and forty (40) per week.
Section4:	Three-Shift Operations
a)	The employer shall have the right to operate his plant or any pari thereof on a three-shift basis and all employees working under this arrangementshall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be vaned at the Employer'soption.
b)	It is agreed that Clause (a) above shall only apply to those employeesactually working on a three-shift basis.
c)	The Employersshall havethe rightto determinethe numberofshiftsoperated in any unit or department of the operation.
Section 5:	ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
a)	Management, Plant or Camp Committees and the Local Union shall have the
right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement other scheduleswhich, exceptfor production shifts in manufacturing operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, providedthe principleof the forty (40) hour week is maintained over an averaging period. Rate and one-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
b)
Any variation(s) to the preceding Sections denoting normal hoursof work shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
0
Page 9
j) Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Local Management.
ii)	At any pointinthe negotiationof an Alternate Shift Agreement either Party may requestthe assistance of Weldwood and/or the LW.A. Canada Nationaloffice in the negotiation of an Alternate Shift Agreement.
iii)	At any point in the negotiationof an Alternate Shift Agreement either Party may requestthe assistance of a mediator i n the negotiation of an Alternate Shift Agreement. The individual selected to act as mediator will be by agreement.
jv) Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations.
When alternative shift schedules have been implemented in accordance with (a) and (b) above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A.	Rateand one-halfshall be paidforthefollowing:
i)	The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours of the established schedule.
ii)	Hoursworked in excessof forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
iii)	All hoursworked on an employee's scheduled rest day, unlessa change in rest day has been agreed to betweenthe employee and the Company.
jv) All hoursworked on Sunday exceptthose excluded in the casual section unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i) All hoursworked in excess of A(i) above.
ii) All hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday is also an employee's scheduled rest day, if the employee has worked forty (40) straighttime hours in the precedingsix (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
C.	Supplement No. 8-Alternate Shift Scheduling, containsthe agreed upon general principlesand parameters for the establishment, implementation or discontinuance of alternate shift schedules.
Section 6:
It is agreed betweenthe Parties that ifthree (3) hours or less are necessary after
Page 10
midnight Friday, or on a Statutory Holiday, to completethe shift which commenced on Friday afternoon, orthe afternoon precedingthe Statutory Holiday,time worked after midnightto completethis shift will be paid at straighttime.
Section 7:
The foregoing provisionsof this Article snail not be construed asguaranteeingto any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 8:
Any employee called for work and finding no work available due to reasons beyond his or her control shall be entitled to two (2) hours pay at the usual rate. This shallapply unlessthe Company gives notice cancellingthe said call. Such notice shall be considered to be given by an announcementover Radio Station B.V.L.D./C.F.L.D. prior to the commencementof the shift in accordancewith (b) of Supplement No. 2.
Section 9:
When an employee is called for work and starts work, he shall receive four (4)hours pay at his regular rate unless his work is suspended because of inclementweather, or other reasons completely beyond the control of the Company.
Section 10: Call BackTime
Employees called back to work after completionof their regular scheduled shift shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours at rate and one-half.
Section 11:
All employees in manufacturingplants shall be entitled to two (2) ten (10) minute rest
periods during each regular shift.
Section 12: Casual Work
a)	The term "CasualWork" as used inthisAgreementshall apply onlyto work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-off regular employees or other persons hereinafter referred to as "Casual Employees".
b)	Casual employees on maintenance, repair or preparatorywork shall be paid straight-time rates, and those on productionsha!! he paid rate and one-halffor all work performed on Saturday and Sunday.
c)	Casual work on maintenance, repair and preparatorywork will be paid ^straight-time job rate.
d)	Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as Casual Employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said casual employees.
e)	The employer agrees to keep a separate seniority list of casual employees who
Page 11
have worked at least ten (10) working days, exclusivelyfor recall purposes and, subjectto clause (d), further agrees to recall casual employees in accordance with their seniority as setforth in this list.
Section 13:
When an employee is unavoidably prevented from reporting for his scheduled shift, if reasonably possible, he must give notice to his foreman, or at the Company office, at least two (2) hours before the shift commences.
Section 14:
That a Committee be establishedwith IWA Local 1-424 during the term of the 19771979 Agreementto clarify the provisions of Article VII - Hours of Work
Section 15: HotMeals
Where maintenance,repair and construction employees are required to work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal. Such hot meal to be consumed bythe employees on Companytime before beginning the overtime work.
ARTICLE VIII - SENIORITY
Section 1:
a)	Notwithstandinganything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, it shall be mutually agreed that all employees are hired on probation, the probationaryperiod to continue until thirty (30) days have been worked, during which time they are to be considered temporary workers only, and during this same period no seniority rights shall be recognized.
b)	Upon completion of thirty (30) days worked, they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company'semploy, provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) days worked shall only be cumulative within the three (3) calendar months following the date of entering employment.
c)	It is agreed that probationaryemployeeswill have preference over Casual employeesfor any work performed during the normal work week, subject to competency.
d)	It isfurther agreed that in the application of c) above, probationary employeeswill be called in for work in accordancewith their hiring date, unless such call-in is beyond the control of the employer, and is subject to the employee being competent to perform the work. This obligation does not apply where the employee cannot be readily contacted or where the employee has worked one shift in the 24 hour period.
Page 12
Section 2:
a)	The Company recognizes the principleof seniority, competency considered.
b)	Where the Companyoperates more than one plant, each such plant will be considered separatelyfor seniority purposes; except where the Union and Company agree upon some different arrangement.
Section 3:
a)	When making promotions, the Company agrees to give due considerationto length of service.
b)	Inthe event ofa reduction oftheforces,the last person hired shall be the first released, subject to the provision of Section 2 of this Article.
c)	During a reduction of forces where an employee's seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regularjob he/she may elect whether or not to apply his/her seniority to obtain a lower paid job orajob paying the same rate of pay or accept a layoff until his/her regularjob becomes available, provided however:
i) If during the layoff period the employeewishesto return to work and so notifies the Company, he/she shall be called backto work as soon as his/her seniority entitleshim/her to a job.
jj) The application cf this provision shall not resultin an employee, in the exercise of his/her rights, bumping an employee with less seniority.
During a reduction of forces where an employee's seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regularjob he/she may elect to apply his/her seniority to obtain a job paying a higher rate, subjecttothe compentency ofthe person involved and the provisions of Section 1. Detailsto be worked out between the Local Union and the Company.
Section 4:
a)	It is agreed that when employees are to be re-called after a lay-off, it shall be done on the basis ofthe last person released shall be the first person recalled, subject to provisions (f Section2(a).
It is agreed that in cases of emergencythe application of plant seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding three (3) days. Ifthe Company decides to exercise its rights underthis provision it shall notify the Committee or the Local Union immediately.
b)	Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions, the application of seniority may be postponedfor such period as may be necessary but not exceeding five (5) working days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights
Page 13
under this provision, it shall notify the Shop Committee as soon as possible
Section 5:
a)	When re-calling employees, in accordancewith Section 4, after seasonal shutdown, all employeesshall be notified bytelegram or registeredletterat least seven (7) days before re-startingof operation. The employees must reply by telegram or registered letter in the affirmative within ninety-six (96) hours of the telegram or registeredletter being sent out by the Company, and appear for work not later than the above stated seven (7) day period.
b)	Employees resident in the Provinceof Alberta or the Yukon Territories shall be entitled to one (1) additional day to report and employees residing in any other Canadian Province or the United States shall be entitled to two (2) additional days to report.
C) It shall be the employee's responsibilityto keep the Company informed of his/her address during the period of shutdown.
It is agreed that all employees shall, upon returningto employment, in accordancewith this Section, retain all seniority rights.
Section 6:
it is agreed that upon the request of the Union a lis: will be supplied by the Company setting out the name and the starting day with the Company of each regularemployee; however, such request shall not be granted more than twice during each year of the term cf this Agreement.
The Companywill advise the Union once each month of changes to the said list. Section 7:
It is agreed that companies signatory to this agreement shall give preference in hiring competency considered, on the following basis, in the following order:
1.	previous employees of the Division who have both previous seniority and an application on tile
2.	previous employees of the company who have previous company seniority and are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reductionsin other operations of the company
3.	laid off employeesof other forest industrycompanies in the communities,who are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reduction in excess of ninety (90)days
4.	laid off forest industry IWA membersof Local 1-424 and 1-425 who are seeking employment as a result of operationalclosures or crew reduction in excess of ninety (90) days
5.	persons who qualify for preference, and wish to exercise their rights to preference, must make application within six (6) months of the operational
Page 14
closure or the ninety (90) day layoff period.
Applications will be kept on file as active for sixty (60) days. After which time,
applications must be renewed by the person seeking employment, or no preference
shall be considered.
Section 8:
It is agreed between the Parties that seniority during lay-offs shall be retained on the
following basis:
a)	Employees with less than one (1)year service will retain their seniority lor a period of eight (8) months.
b)	Effective July 1,2003, employees with one (1) or more years service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one (1) additional month for each year cf service, up to an additional twelve (12)monthsfor a maximum period of twenty-four (24) months.
c)	It shall be the employee's responsibility^ keep the Company informed cf his or heraddressduring a lay-off.
d)	A laid-offemployee'sseniority retention is reinstitutedon the completionof one day of work.
Section 9:
It is agreed that when an employee has been transferredby the Company to a supervisory or staff position, he will continue to accumulate seniority for a period of ninety (90) days. At any time during this ninety (90) day period the individual shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit in the job which he would have held if he had not left the bargaining unit, (in special cases this ninety (90) day period may be extended for up to a further ninety (90) days by mutual agreement between the Company and the Shop Committee.)At the expiration of the period mentionedabove, his seniority will be frozen. Thus, if at a later date, he ceases to be a supervisoror staff worker and the Company desires to retain his services, it is hereby agreed that reinstatement can be made within the bargainingunit provided however, that any employee so reinstated must return to the job held at the time of his or her promotion to the supervisory or staff position.
Section 10: Transfer cf Company Seniority
j) Where Employees of a Company operation are offered, and accept, a position in another division cf that Company and successfullycomplete their probationary period, then their prior Company service date will be applied for annual vacation entitlement and vacation pay purposes.
ii) Employeeswill be entitledto a maximum of one floater per Employeeper year in the event of transfer.
Page 15
ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section I:
a)	Any employee desiring leave of absence for any reason other than those set out in Section 2 and 3 of this Article must obtain same in writing from the Company a copy of such leaveto be forwarded to the Local Union.
b)	Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this Section for a period of longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the Company agrees to notify the Job Steward and the Union as to the circumstancesfor the granting of such period of leave.
Section 2:
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering illness or injury, subject to a medical certificateif requested by the Company. The employee shall report, or cause to have reported, to the Company the injury or illness which requires his absence from the operation. The employee shall have a reasonable period of time to present a medical certificate if requested by the Company.
Section 3:
Ia)	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or
elected to Union office. The employee who obtains such leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of his term of employment with the Union.
b) The Union will make every effort in requesting such leaves of absence to avoid requests that will unduly deplete the crew in any one department which will impair productionor inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Unionwill co-operate with the Company in making substitute employees availableor select alternate delegates to attend Union functions.
c)	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are elected as
representativesto attend Union meetings and Union Conventions, or members of any Union NegotiatingCommittee in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
d)	It is agreed that before the employee receives this Leave ofAbsence as set forth in clauses (a) and (c) above, the employerwill be given notice in writing (inthe case of (a) - fifteen (15) calendar days, i n the case of (c)-five (5) calendar days) by the Union in orderto replacethe employee with a competent substitute.
Section 4:	COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
By mutual agreement leave of absence will be granted to a maximum of six (6) months without pay to the employees for compassionate reasons or for educational or training
Page 16
or extended vacation purposes, conditional on the following terms:
I a)	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds
for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	That the employee shall disclosethe grounds for application.
c)	That the Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant or may postpone leave where a suitable replacement is not available.
d)	That the Company will consult with the Shop Committee in respect of any application for leave under this section.
e)	That the Company will only be obliged to grant leave of absence for educational and training purposesto employees who intend to take training that will assist the individual in obtaining skills related to the industry.
f)	That the Employees granted leave cf absence pursuant to this section shall be required to pay the appropriate premiums for health and welfare, dental and medical coverage.
g)	That it is agreed that Employees requesting leave of absence for the purposeof extended vacations, shall only be granted such leave once every three (3) years, and that a record shall be kept for the purpose of ensuring that such leaves are properly rotated.
h)	That the Union agrees it will provide a letter regarding problems which arise from extended vacation applications.
Section 5: Maternity Leave
To provide for a reasonable period of time for extended maternity leave without pay to female employees where there is a valid medical reason.
Section 6:	Bereavement Leave
a) When death occurs to a member of a regular full time employee's immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence for which he/she shall be compensated at his/her regular straight time hourly rate of pay for hours lost from his/her regularworkschedulefora maximum of three (3) days.
t>) Piece workers who are entitled to bereavementleave shall be compensated in accordance with the principles established in Article XI, Section 2(b).
c)	Members of the employee's immediate family are defined as the employee's
spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents-in-law,step-parents, grandparents, grandchildren,step-children, sons-in-law,and daughters-in-law.
Page17
d)	Compensable hours under the terms of this Section will be counted as hours
worked for the purpose of qualifyingfor vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purposeof computing overtime
Section 7:	Jury Duty
a)	Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, Coroner's Duty, or as a Crown Witness or Coroner's Witness on a day which he/she would normally have worked will be reimbursedbythe Companyforthe difference between the pay receivedfor Jury Duty and his/her regular straighttime hourly rate of pay for his/her regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understoodthat such reimbursementshall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay receivedfor Jury Duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of Jury Service and Jury Duty pay received.
b)	Any piece-workerwho is required to perform Jury Duty shall be compensatedfor the difference between Statutory pay receivedfor Jury Duty and his/herjob rate in accordance with the principle established in Article XI, Section 2(b).
c)	Hours paid for Jury Duty will be counted as hours worked forthe purposeof qualifying for vacation and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 8:	Public Office
a)	The Company will grant leave of absence without pay for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal,Provincialor Municipal elective public office for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such applicationcould not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial, or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave without pay as is necessaryduring the term of such office. Municipaloffice holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for conducting Municipal business.
c)	The employee who obtainsthis leave of absence shall returnto his/her Company within thirty (30)calendar days after completion of public office.
ARTICLE X -VACATIONS WITH PAY
With respectto annual vacations and vacation pay the following provisions will apply
Section 1:	One to Two Years Service
The annual vacation for employees with one (1) or two (2) years of service covered by this Agreement shall be two (2) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon five
Page 18
percent (5%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement,or eighty (80) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regularjob, whichever is greater.
Section 2:	Two to Seven Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employeeswith two (2) to seven (7) years of service covered by this Agreement shall be three (3) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon seven percent (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement,or one hundred and twenty (120) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regularjob, whichever is greater.
b)	The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenientforthe Company but does not have to be consecutivewith the vacation period providedfor in Section 1 herein
Section 3:	Seven to Fifteen Years cf Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with seven (7) to fifteen (15) years of service covered by this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon nine percent (9%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement,or one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regularjob, whichever is greater.
b)	The additional one (1) week vacation providedfor in this Section may betaken when convenientforthe Company but does not have to be consecutivewith the vacation periods providedfor in Sectionsl and 2 herein.
Section 4:	Fifteen to Twenty-four Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employeeswith fifteen (15) to twenty-four (24) years of service covered by this Agreement shall be five (5) weeks, andthe paytherefor shall be based upon eleven percent (11%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement,or two hundred (200) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regularjob, whichever is greater.
b)	Subjecttothe provisionsof Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation providedfor in this Section may betaken consecutivelywiththe vacation periods providedfor in Sectionsl, 2, or 3.
Section 5:	Twentv-four to Thirty Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employeeswith twenty-four (24) to thirty (30) years of service covered bythis Agreementshafl be six (6)weeks, andthe paytherefor shall be based upon thirteen percent (13%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement,or two hundred and forty (240) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regularjob, whichever is greater.
b)	Subjectto the provisionsof Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation providedfor in this Section may betaken consecutivelywith the
Page 19
vacation periods providedfor in Sections 1, 2, 3, or 4 Section 6: Thirty Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employeeswith thirty (30) years of service covered by this Agreement shall be seven (7) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon fifteen percent (15%)of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subjecttothe provisionsof Sections herein, the additional one (1)week vacation providedfor in this Section may betaken consecutively with the vacation periods providedfor in Sections 1,2, 3,4 or 5.
Section 7: Vacation Pav on Termination
An employee whose employment is terminated shall receive vacation pay at the appropriate percentage of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement in accordancewith the employee's years of service.
Section 8: Vacation Time
a)	Vacations for employeesshall betaken at such time as mutually agreed upon by the Shop Committee and the Company when quantity and regularity of productionshall not be impaired.
b)	All earned vacation shall betaken
Section 9:	Pavmentof Vacation Pay
a)	The calculationand comparison of the vacation pay amounts developed by the percentageof gross wages method and the hours times the regularjob rate method will be completed and the greater amount paid to the employee within Fourteen (14) days of the common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date. The Company's present cut-off or anniversary date method shall be continued unless a change is agreed upon between the Company and the Local Union.
b)	For the purposes of this Article, the rate of the employee's regular job will be the rate of the employee's regular job at the date of the common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date, as the case may be.
c)	In the case of a pieceworker,the rate of the employee's regular job will be determinedby computingthe employee's hourly average earnings for the days actually worked during the pay period immediately precedingthe common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date, as the case may be.
d)	On the date when an employee completesone (1), two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24), or thirty (30) years of service and where there is a common cut-off date for all employees in the operation, the employee will
Page20
receive:
j)	In the case of one (1) year, one percent (1%) of his gross earnings
between the date of employment and the date of the last common cut-off date;
jj) lnthecaseoftwo(2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four(24), or thirty (30) years, two percent (2%) of his gross earnings between the date of his last anniversary date and the date of the last common cut-off date.
Section 10: Vacation Pav - Percentage of Wages Method
The following shall be considered as days actuallyworked for determiningvacations
with pay for an employee after one (1) continuous year of employment:
a)	Absence on Workers' Compensation up to a period of one (1)year, provided that the employee returns to his employment.
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1) year, provided that the employee returns to his employment. The employer shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordancewith the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 6.
d)	Absence due to time served on jury duty, including Coroner's Jury, or time served as a Crown witness or Coroner's witness in accordancewith the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 7.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the employer in writing shall be credited towards entitlementfor annual vacation, but time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 11: Qualifications for Vacation Pav Regular Job Rate Method
a) i) In order for an employee to qualifyforthe amount generated by the hours timesthe regularjob rate method, the employee must have worked a minimum of fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in the employee's first year of service and a minimum of one thousand (1,000) hours during the employee's succeeding years of entitlement.
ii)	Where there is a common vacation pay cut-off date, for the purposesof-calculating minimum hours as in (1) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeeding year.
iii)	Where there is no common vacation pay cut-off date, for the purposesof calculating minimum hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee's anniversary date in one yearto his anniversarydate in the succeedingyear.
Page21
b)	For the purposes of computing the requisite hours the following will be included:
i)	All hours worked;
ii)	Statutory Holiday hours;
iii)	Jury and Crown Witness	duty;
iv)	Bereavementleave;
v)	Vacation hours;
vi)	Time not exceeding one	(1) year, lost as the result of an accident
recognizedas compensable by the Worker's CompensationBoard and suffered during the course of employment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee returns to his employment;
vii)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of a non-occupational accident or illness, shall be considered as time worked for the purposeof qualifyingfor vacation, providedthat at the time of the accident or illness the employee has been on the payrollfor not less than one (1) year and that he returns to his employment. It is understood that the employer may require that the employee provide a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner;
viii)	Time lost as a result of layoff shall not be considered as time worked for the purposeof qualifyingfor requisite hours;
ix)	Employeeswho report for work and who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any such shift for purposes of computing requisite hours under this Section. Any employee who qualifies for call time in a day shall receive credit underthis Section for eight (8) hours or credit for the hours for which wages were paid, whichever is greater.
x)	All hours worked in more than one (1) division of the parent company as a result of transfer or layoff.
Section 12: Employment Standards Act
Part4-Annual Vacation of the Employment StandardsAct, S.B.C., 1980, c. 10, and amendmentsthereto, except where varied or modified by the provisions herein, shall become part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XI -STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Section I:
a)	All hourly-ratedemployeeswhoworkon NewYeahs Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, RemembranceDay, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be paid rate and one-half for all hours so worked.
b)	In the event one of the above Statutory Holidaysfalls on a Sunday, the previous
Page 22
Friday or the following Mondayshall be observed as the Holiday. Inthe event that one of the within named Statutory Holidays falls on Saturday it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or succeeding Monday as agreed between the Company and the Shop Committee.
Inthe case of a maintenanceemployee where one of the Statutory Holidays is observed on his/her restday, he/she shall have a day off without pay in lieu thereof at a mutually agreeable time.
Section 2:
All hourly-ratedand piece-workemployees who qualify for the paid holiday under the conditions set out below shall be paid for the holiday at their regular job rate of pay for their regular work schedule.
The Parties hereto agree that the paid Statutory	Holidaysshall be as follows:
New Year's Day	Canada Day
RemembranceDay	Good Friday
British Columbia Day	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Labour Day
Boxing Day	Thanksgiving	Day
Piecework employees shall receive pay for the Statutory Holidays for which they qualify, based onthe daily average earnings for the days actually worked during the previousthirty (30)working days.
All hourly rated employeesworking on a paid holidayshall receive rate and one-halffor hoursworked on such day in additiontothe holiday pay to which he/she may be entitled.
Cook and bunkhouse employeeswho work on a statutory holiday shall receive at the end of their regular work schedule, an additional day off with pay to be added to their leave and vacation allowanceaccumulated in accordancewith Article VII, Section 3
To qualify for statutory holidays, an employee must have been on the Company payrollforthe thirty (30) calendardays immediatelyprecedingthe statutory holiday and must haveworked his/her last regularlyscheduledworkday before, and his/her first regularlyscheduledworkday afterthe holiday, unless his/her absence is due to a compensableoccupational injury or illness, which occurred within six (6) months of the holiday, or the employee is on authorized leave of absence in accordancewith Section2 or3 of Article IX.
f)	In the case of illness or injury, the Company shall have the right to request a certificatefrom a qualified medical practitioner.
g)	Notwithstandingany of the foregoing provisions,the employee must have worked one day before and one day after the holiday, both of which must fall within a period of ninety (90) calendar days.
Page 23
Section 3:
a)	In the event of a Statutory Holidayfalling on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, and where the Company and Shop Committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
b)	At the Option of the Company, but whenever possible by mutual agreement with the Shop Committee, either Good Friday or Easter Monday shall become the designated Easter Holiday and the Company shall notify its employees of the designation at least one (1)week prior to the said holiday.
c)	When a Statutory Holidayfalls on Friday, employeesworking on a Tuesday to Saturday work week by mutual agreement between the Company and the Plant Committee may work on the Friday statutory holiday at the straighttime job rates and substitute Saturday as the statutory holiday.
Section 4:	Personal Floating Holiday
This Section becomes effective September 1,1978. This Personal Floating Holiday is
in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day butthis Section shall come into operation on its
effective date even if Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed.
a)	Personal Floating Holiday - Regularfull time employeeswill begrantedone Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of the Agreement, to be arranged at a time suitable to the Employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production.
b)	Qualifying Conditions - When the Personal Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his/her regularjob rate of pay for his/her regularwok schedule, subject to the following conditions:
i) A new employee must have been on the payrollfor not less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday.
jj) An employeewill not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for morethan nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury.
iii)	An employeeshall apply on an approved form, at least seven (7) days in advance, for his/her Personal Floating Holiday. The employeeshall receive notice of the dispositionof his/her request a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday.
iv)	If an employee is requiredto work on his/her Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date has beendesignatedfor such holiday, the employee shall be paid overtime for such work at the rate of
Page 24
time and one-half. The employee will then be entitled to take the holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon.
v)	Personal Floating Holiday nottaken orscheduled by April 30th of each contractyear will be scheduled by management.
vi)	A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on an employee's regular rest day.
vii)	Where an employee chooses Saturday and/or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday straighttime rates will apply.
viii)	EffectiveJuly 1,2000, employeeswho have been on the payroll for notlessthan ninety (90) consecutivedays, whoterminatetheir employment and who have not taken their earned personalfloating holiday, shall receive payment for their personal holiday. This shall not be construed as an extensionof their period of employment.
ARTICLE XII ■ SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section 1:
The Company and Employeeswill co-operate to assure safe working methods and conditions and devise plansfor the furtheranceof safety measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon to be provided by the Company.
Section 2:
The Managementof every operation shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee of four (4) to six (6) membersaccordingto the size of the operation. Members of the Committeeshall be designatedto equal number by the Employeesand the Employer. Employee representativesshall be regularemployees in the operation with at least one (1)year experience.
Section 3:
Safety meetings will be held during working hours where possible. Employee'stime will not be deducted for attending such meetings or investigations into accidents. It is recognizedthat in multi-shiftoperations, meetings will occur outside of working hours for certain employees.
When meetings take place outside of an employee's working hours, he will be compensated at his regular hourly straighttime rate of pay for the time spent attending such meetings, investigationsand inspections up to a maximum of two (2) hours per week.
Section 4:
The Company will require all Cookhouse employees to have a health card from a
Page25
recognized doctor within ten (10) days of employment and shall renew same every six (6) months. Cost of medica examination is to be borne by the Employer if the Employee stays on the job thirty (30) days. These requirements are subject to medical service being available.
Section 5:
Effective July 1,1989, an IWA - Forest IndustrySafety and Health Research Program be established on the following general principles:
a)	The Plan will be jointly trusteed
b)	The Plan is to be funded on the basis of an Industry contribution of one-half cent (1/4 0) per hour per employee per hourworked, effective July 1, 1989.
c)	The trustees will be appointed in the first year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish objectivesand operating and administrative procedures.
d)	j)	When funds in the Plan reach $100,000.00, the Employerwill contributean
additional one-half cent (140) per hour for a total of one-cent(10) per hour.
ii) When funds in the Plan reach$200,000.00, the additional one-half cent (V-#) providedfor in (a) above will be discontinued until the fund level is again reducedtothe $100,000.00 level.
ARTICLEXIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1
A Grievance Committee shall be elected to consist of two (2) to four (4) employees elected by the Union members employed in the operation covered by this Agreement. Members cf this Grievance Committee shall have completedtheir probationaryperiod with the Company and shall have at least one (1) year's experience in the type cf operation. Wherever possible members shall be selected on a departmental basis. Meetings of the Grievance Committee shall, except in cases cf emergency, and wherever possible, be held outside of working hours. In the event that a grievance should arise it shall be dealt with in the following manner, without stoppage of work.
Step 1.
The individual employee involvedwith or without the Shop Steward shall first take up the matter with the Foreman directly in charge of the work within fourteen (14) days from the occurrence of the event or events giving rise to the grievance or from time when the employee has knowledge or may be reasonably presumed to have knowledge of such event or events.
Step 2.
Page26
If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be reduced to writing by both Partieswhen the same employee and the Committee shall take up the Grievance with the Plant Superintendentand/or Personnel Manager. If desired, the Union Business Agent shall accompany the Committee.
Step 3.
If a grievance is not then satisfactorilysolved, it shall be referred to the Local Union and the Management.
Step 4.
If a satisfactory Settlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
Section 2:
a)	If a grievance has notadvancedtothe next stage under Steps2, 3, or4, within fourteen (14) day after completion of the precedingstage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned,and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. The fourteen (14) day limit may be extended by mutual consent of both Parties.
b)	The Parties agree that the operation of Section 96, Subsection 1, of the Labour Code of British Columbia Act, 1973, is specifically excluded from this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIV - RIGHT OF REFERENCE
Section 1:
If the two Partiesfail to agree upon an interpretationof the Agreement, either Party shall havethe right to refer the matter to the Joint IndustryCommittee, hereinafter provided, and if either Party does make such reference, the other Party must accept the reference.
Section 2:
The Joint Industry Committee shall consist (f three (3) representativesselected bythe IWA-CANADA, Negotiating Committee and three (3) representatives selected bythe Company represented in the negotiationsof this Agreement, and the two committees may be representedby one or more Parties selected by them.
Section 3:
When an interpretationof the Agreement has been referred to the Joint Committee, this reference shall be for the period of forty-eight (48) hours or longer by mutual consent of the Parties to this Agreement. In case the Joint Committees agree upon a recommendation or interpretation,this shall be furnished in writing to the Union involved and to the Company.
Page 27
Section 4:
In the event the Joint Committee membersdisagree, all the facts in the case as found by the Union and Union membersof the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submitted to the Employer and to the Union member involved. The facts in the case as found by the Employer and the employer members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing and given to the Union member employees for their information.
Section 5:
If a satisfactoryinterpretationof the point in question is not reached either Party may refer the question to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE XV - INTERPRETATIONAND ARBITRATION
Section 1:	Interpretation
a)	In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretationof this Agreement, which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves,the matter shall be determined by interpretation in the following manner.
b)	Either Party may notifythe other Party in writing by Registered mail on the question or questions to be interpreted. After receiving such notice and statement, each of the parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreterselected by the Parties.
c)	The Parties agree to___________________________as the Interpreterfor the duration
of this Agreement.
d)	In the event the Interpreternamed in (c) above is unable, through illnessor absence from the Provinceof British Columbiafor any reason whatsoever, to act
as Interpreter,the Parties agree that_______________________shall act in his
place.
e)	The decision of the Interpretershall be final and binding upon the parties of the First and Second Part.
Section 2: Arbitration
a)	In the case of a dispute arising under this Agreement. except as to Interpretationsofthis Agreement, which the Partiesare unableto settle themselves, as set out in Article XIII, the mattershall be determined by Arbitration in the following manner:
b)	Either Party may notifythe other Party in writing by Registered mail of the question to be arbitrated. After receiving such noticeand statement, each of the Partieswill then refer the matter in writing to the Arbitrator who has been selected by the Parties.
Page28
c)	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the Partiesof the First and Second Part.
d)	The Parties agree that_______________________shall be the Arbitrator for the
duration of this Agreement. If the Arbitrator named above is unable to go, through illness or absence from the Province of British Columbia for any reason
whatsoever, to act as Arbitrator the Parties agree that________________
will be appointed in his place.
e)	If both of the Arbitrators named above are unable to act because of reasons set out above, the parties agree to meet and attempt to select a mutually satisfactory Arbitrator. If unable to select one which is satisfactory,the parties further agree to request the HonourableMinister of Labour of the Provinceof British Columbia to appoint an Arbitrator.
f)	If the Arbitratorfinds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, such employee shall be reinstated with all his rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall further make the determinations on the amount of lost pay to be paid to the employee.
Section 3:
The Partiesof the Firstand Second Parts will each bearone-half(1/2) of the expense of interpretationsorarbitrationsincludingthe salary of the Interpreteror Arbitrator plus any stenographic, secretarial and rent expenses which may be incurred in respect to such proceeding
Section 4:
Any Arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held in the City of Prince George or such other place as may be decided by the Arbitrator.
Section 5:
A Committee shall be established to develop and implementa system of expedited arbitration of grievances. The chairman of this Committeewill be H. Allan Hope, Q.C. The Committeeshall reporttothe parties not later than December 31,1984.
ARTICLE XVI -GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section I:
a)	The Union will, within sixty (60) days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the membersofthe Shop Committee. The Union or Shop Committee will inform the Company in writing when any member change takes place on the said Committee. No member of the Shop Committee will be recognized by the Company unless the above procedureis carried out.
Page29
b)	For the purpose of this Agreement, when the word "lCommittee"is used it shall mean Shop, Mill or Plant Committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
c)	Official Union representativesshall obtain access to the Company's operations for the purpose of this Agreement by written permission which will be granted by the Company on request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company
Section2:
The Company agrees that the rate for Board and Lodging shall be $2.35 per day
Section 3:	No Strike Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Union agrees that it will not cause, promote, sanction, or authorize any strike, sit-down, slowdown, sympathetic strike, or other interference with work by the employees for any cause whatsoever until all provisionsof this Agreement relatingto grievance and arbitration procedures have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedureis due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Company.
Section 4:	No Lockout PendinaGrievanceand Arbitration Procedure
The Company agrees it will not create or instituteany lockout of the employeeswith respect to any dispute between the Company and the Union or the Company and its employee until all provisionsof this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedurehave been complied with, unlessfailureto comply with such procedure is due to any actor refusal to act or misconduct of the Union or its employees.
Section 5:	Working Foremen
Employees outside the bargaining unit will not perform work that is normally done by employees in the bargaining unit.
However, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibitingforemen from doing work for purpose of instruction, providedby so doing a lay-off of bargaining unit employees does not result, or in the case of an emergency when regular employees are not available, provided that every reasonableeffort is made to find a replacement.
Section 6 Permanent Plant Closure -Severance Pay
a) EffectiveJuly 1st, 2003, employeesterminated bythe Company because of permanentclosureof a manufacturingplant shall be entitled to severance pay equal to ten (10) day's pay for each year of continuous service and thereafter in incrementsof completed months d service.
Page 30
b)	Where a plant is relocated and the employees involved are not requiredto relocate their place of residence or are not terminated by the employeras a result of the Plant relocation, they shall not be entitled to severance pay under this Article.
C) Effective July 1st, 1982, sixty (60) days noticeof closure will be provided.
Section 7:	PlanermanTrainina
It is agreed that the Parties to the Agreement will meet jointly to discuss and implement
aPlanerman's Training Program.
Section 8: Tools
a)	The Company will repair or replace those Tradesmen's tools that are damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties.
b)	The Company will make availableTradesmen's tools required upon the introductionof the metric system.
C) Duringthe introductionof equipmentwhich requiresthe use of metrictools, the Company will make metrictools available, at no cost, for use by Tradesmen.
Section 9:	First Aid Training
Employees of the Company who, by mutual agreement, train or retrain for Industrial
First Aid Certificates,will be compensatedin the following manner:
a)	The Company will pay the cost of the course tuition and material required to those employees who pass the course.
b)	The Company will pay losttime wagesto designated First Aid Attendants.
Section 10: Disciplinary Action
In all instances of discipline, the Company will ensure a Shop Steward is present unless the Employee requests that no Shop Steward be present. Non-attendanceof a union official will not negatethe discipline.
Section 11: Local Issues
The parties agree to a process of ongoing timely resolutionof matters as they arise in operations during the term of the Agreement. Either party may requestthe involvement ofWeldwood and IWA-CANADAforthe purposeof assistance in the resolution of such matters.
ARTICLE XVII ■ FORESTRYENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
Forestry EnvironmentalCommittees shall be established by the Company and the Local
Page31
Union.
The details concerning the structure, operation and terms of reference must be agreed to by the Company and the Local Union prior to implementation.
ARTICLE XVIII - HEALTH & WELFARE
Section 1:	Medical
a)	Medical coverage including Extended Health Benefit coverage shall be provided by the Company at no cost to the employee. The Extended Health Benefit Coverage shall include hospitalizationcoverage up to a maximum of eight dollars and fifty cents ($8.50) per day.
b)	EffectiveJuly 1st, 1982, a Vision Care Program be institutedto providefor payment up to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period for charges incurred relativeto the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such a prescription. EffectiveJuly 1,1997, the maximumwill be increasedtotwo hundred dollars ($200.00) per memberor dependant. EffectiveJuly 1,1999, the maximumwill be increasedtotwo hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per member or dependent.
c)	EffectiveJuly 1,1997, the Physiotherapist/ Massage practitioners'limitwill be increased by fifty dollars ($50.00) per calendar year to a total limit of five hundred and fifty dollars ($550.00) per member or dependant per calendar year.
d)	Effective July 1,1998, the Chiropractors/ NaturopathicPhysicians' limitwill increase by two hundred dollars ($200.00) per memberor dependant per calendar year to a total limit of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per member or dependant per calendar year.
e)	Participations such a plan shall be compulsory upon all employees. However, effective January 1,2004, the obligation of the employerto enroll and cover an employee for Medical Services Plan of British Columbia (MSP of BC) is triggered only when the employee is not already covered by MSP of BC by some other means.
f)	Dependent Coverage: That the appropriate policies for medical and dental coverage be amended to provide coverage for dependents over the age of twenty-one (21) years but not over the age of twenty-five (25) years, provided that the dependents are attending a recognized educational institution.
g)	EffectiveJuly 1,1998, establish coverage for prescribed orthoticswith a maximum limit of two hundred dollars ($200) per memberor dependent per calendar year.
h)	EffectiveJuly 1,1998, increasethe Orthopedic Shoes limit by one hundred dollars ($100) from four hundred dollars ($400) to five hundred dollars ($500) (adults),and from two hundred dollars ($200) to three hundred dollars ($300) (child) per calendar year.
Page 32
1i)	EffectiveJuly 1,1999, increasethe HearingAids limit by one hundred and fifty
dollars ($150)from four hundred dollars ($400) every five (5) years for children to five hundred and fifty dollars ($550) every five (5Jyears. EffectiveJuly 1,1999, establish the same five hundred and fifty dollar ($550,)limit per member or dependent, every five (5) years, unlessthere is alternate coverage providedfor.
j) EffectiveJuly 1,2003, increasethe lifetime benefits payableto $75,000.00 per family member.
k) i) EffectiveJuly 1,2004, theannual ExtendedHealthCaredeductiblewill be increased to fifty dollars ($50.00) for single or family coverage.
ii)	Effective January 1, 2007, theannual Extended Health Care deductible will be increasedfrom fifty dollars ($50.00)to seventy-five dollars ($75.00)for single or family coverage.
iii)	EffectiveJuly 1, 2004 the Extended Health Care Plan shall provide benefits for the surviving spouse and eligible childrenfor a period of twenty-four (24) months in the event of the death of an active member.
Section 2:	Institution
It is agreed that a Health and Welfare Plan be institutedwith the principles hereinafter set out.
Section 3:	Provincial Board of Trustees
Houston Forest Products Co. and Babine Forest Products Ltd. together with Weldwood of Canada Limited, Forest IndustrialRelationsLimited, Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canadian Forests Products Limited, and IWA-CANADA agree to establisha set of trustees forthe purpose of developing a common text, a common trust agreement, and a common employee booklet for the six Health and Welfare Plans, covering Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance,and Weekly Indemnity.
The Parties agree that a Joint Committee, representing Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour RelationsAssociation, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canadian Forest Products Limited, Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA will be established to study the most effective method of administrationof the Plans, reportingtothe Parties no laterthan July 1,1984.
Section 4:	Houston/Babine - IWA Board of Trustees
The Board of Trustees, composed of two (2J members representing IWA-CANADA and two (2) membersrepresentingthe Company, are responsibleforthe administrationof the IWA-Weldwood Health and Welfare Plan. The Trustees are also responsibleforthe selection of carrier, funding, adjudication of compassionateappeals, and Health and Welfare problems directly relatedto the Plan.
Page 33
Section 5: Insurance Coverage
The following coverage will be institutedwith coverage as set out below:
a)	Group Life Insurancefor each qualified employee as follows:
effectiveJuly 1, 2000	$ 80,000.00
effectiveJuly 1,2001	$90,000.00
effectiveJuly 1,2002	$100,000.00
b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurancefor each qualified employee as follows:
effectiveJuly 1, 2000	$80,000.00
effectiveJuly 1, 2001	$90,000.00
effectiveJuly l, 2002	$100,000.00
EffectiveJuly 1,1994, the plan will providefor coverageforaccidentsoccurring at work.
c)	Weekly Indemnity as follows:
i.	Effective July 1,1995, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten dollars ($10) per week so that the benefit level is four hundred thirty-ninedollars ($439) per week for fifty-two (52) weeks.
ii.	EffectiveJuly 1,1996, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten dollars ($10) per week so that the benefit level is four hundred forty-nine dollars ($449) per week for fifty-two (52) weeks.
iii.	Effective January 1,1995, a "No Downs" provision be introduced so that the four hundred twenty nine dollar ($429) per week rate will not be reduced by further reductions by U.I.C. of the maximum insurable earnings number.
iv.	EffectiveJuly 1, 2004, the maximum weekly indemnity claim is limited to twenty-six (26) weeks.
d)	In the case of disabilitycaused by non-occupational illness, Weekly Indemnity benefits will be payable commencing the first day cf any such absence where the illness results in the claimant being hospitalized as a bed patient and in cases where surgery is performed which necessitatesloss of time from work.
e)	Absences due to the same or related causes will be considered one continuous absence unless the employee returns to full time work for at least four (4) continuous weeks between absences.
0	The Union agrees that if the Company maintains weekly plan benefitswhich will
meet the standard requirements for full premium reduction for 'wage loss replacement plan underthe UnemploymentlnsuranceAct:" the employees' 5/12ths share of the premium reduction is retained as payment in kind inthe
Page 34
provisions of the Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits
g)	Third Party Subrogation
The Partiesagree to recommend to the Trustees of the Health and Welfare Plan that effective on the date of ratificationof this memorandum a third party subrogation clause be adopted so that the Weekly Indemnity Plan can be reimbursedfrom damages recoveredfrom a liable third party for illness, injury or income loss. The Plan will te entitled to recover the full amount of benefits paid to the member which exceeds 100% of the member's pre-disability gross income. Gross incomewill be calculated by usingthe member's regular hourlyjob rate times (x) forty (40) hours. Trusteesto work out the application and details, including the deduction of legal fees from the settlement and the execution of a reimbursementagreement.
h)	TheTrusteesofthel.W.A.-Weldwood industry Health and Welfare Plan will be directed to amend the Plan Text to permit laser surgery (except where such laser surgery isfor cosmetic purposes ratherthan for a medical reason) to qualify the memberfor a Weekly BenefitCommencementDate from his/her first day of disability.
i)	TheTrusteesofthel.W.A.-Weldwood Health and Welfare Plan will bedirectedto make the necessarychanges in proceduresto allow weekly indemnity cheques to be sent directlyto the employee's residence, if requested by the employee.
Section 6:	Dental Plan
A Dental Plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
a)	Basic dental services Plan" A- Planpays80% of approvedscheduleoffees.
b)	Prosthetics, crownsand bridges Plan "B" - Plan pays 60% of approved schedule of fees.
c)	OrthodonticPlan"C"-Plan pays60% ofapproved schedule of fees. (Lifetime maximum of $2,500.00). There shall be no waiting period for this benefit.
(i) EffectiveJuly 1,1998, increasethe lifetime maximum limitfor Plan C (Orthodontic)from $2,500 to $3,000 for children only.
d)	Effective January 1,2004, the Dental Plan shall provide benefitsfor the surviving spouse and eligible children for a period of twenty-four (24) months in the event of the death of an active member.
Section 7:	General Principles
a)	Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by the Company.
b)	Participations the Plan is to be a condition of employment.
C) Any new employee who has not worked in covered employment in the last
eighteen (18) months will be eligibleto become a covered employee on the first day of the month following completion of the probationary period. However, for
Page 35
such employee, coverage for the Medical Services Plan and for the Extended Health Benefit will apply on the first day of the month following the date of employment.
d)	Coverage will be portable in all units covered by Collective Agreements between members of Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canadian Forest Products Limited, Weldwood of Canada Limited, Houston Forest ProductsCo., Babine Forest Products Limited and IWA-CANADA, and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employeeschanging employers within the Industry.
e)	Coverage during lay-off will be provided as follows:
i)	Employees with one (1)or more years seniority- six (6) months.
jj)	Employees with more than three (3) months of seniority - three (3)
months.
iii)	In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regularfull-time employment. An employee returnsto regularfull-time employment when he is employed for ten (10) working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutivedays.
iv)	In addition, an employee who returnsto work for at least one (1) working day and less than ten (10) working days will becoveredfor that month, in addition to any lay-off coverageto which he was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
f)	Weekly Indemnity coverage will be eliminatedfor an employee on an extended leave of absence under Leaveof Absence, Section4, CompassionateLeave, provided however, that such employee is eligiblefor Weekly Indemnitycoverage on the agreed-upon day of returnto work. In order to qualify for this coverage the employee must have returned to his place of residence in British Columbia unless his disability required him to be hospitalizedand satisfies the requirements of the claimsadjudicationcarrier. In the case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurredduring an extended Leave of Absence, the Trustees have the right to review certain circumstances.
g)	Employeeson extended Leaveof Absence under Leaveof Absence, Article IX -Sections CompassionateLeavewill paytheirown premiumsforthe Medical Services Plan, Extended Health Benefit, and Dental Plan, while the premiumsfor Group Life Insuranceand Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurancewill be paid by the employer during such extended Leave of Absence.
h)	Effective January 1,1998, the existing Extended Health Benefits Plan will be extended to incorporatea medical travel plan allowance for necessarymedical travel from remote areas when membersor their dependentsare referred by their attending physicianto medical specialists in B.C. and such referrals requiretravel from the patient's community of employment in excess of five hundred (500) kilometers round trip. The maximum Medical Travel allowance payable on behalf of any one member or dependent is six hundred dollars ($600) over the terms of the agreement. A Weldwood - I.W.A. committee will work out all of the details
Page 36
prior to implementation.
j)	EffectiveJuly 1, 2003, the maximum allowance payable is increased to
$2,000.00 for the term of theagreementwith a maximum of $1,200.00 in any one year.
j)	The parties agree to participate in a joint study during the term of the Collective Agreement to evaluate ways to:
-	More effectivelyintegrate the short and long term disability plans
-	Improve disability managementprogramsand return to work procedures
-	Considerwaysto streamline adjudication procedures, and
-	Loweroverall benefitcosts.
ARTICLE XIX - LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
a)	The Plan will becomeeffectiveJuly 1st, 1982.
b)	EffectiveJuly 1,1993, the Plan to be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis with contributionsof twenty-two cents (220) per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute eleven Cents (110) and the employee will contributeeleven cents (110).
Effective January 1,1995, contributionsfrom both the Industryandthe employees will be increased by six cents (66)per hour worked so that contributions will be thirty-four cents (346)per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industrywill contribute seventeen cents (170) and the employee will contributeseventeen cents (170).
EffectiveJuly 1, 1995, contributionsfrom both the Industryandthe employees will be increased by a further twoand one-half cents (2)4 0) per hour worked so that contributionswill be thirty-ninecents (39 0) per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industrywill contribute nineteen and one-half cents (19)4 0) and the employee will contribute nineteen and one-half cents (19 y2 0).
Effective October 1,2000, the contributionsfrom both the Industry and the employeewill be increased by eight cents (80) per hour per employee per hour worked, so thatthe contributionswill befifty-five cents (.550) per hour per employee per hourworked of which the Industrywill contributetwenty-seven and one-half cents (27)4 0) and the employeewill contributetwenty-seven and one-half cents (27)4$).
EffectiveJuly 1, 2004, contributionsfrom both the Industryandthe Employeewill be increased by twenty-five cents (250) per hourworked, so thatthe contributionswill be eighty cents (800) per hour per employee hourworked, of which the Industrywill contributeforty cents (400) per hour and the Employeewill contributeforty cents (400).
If at any point during the term of the Agreement, the Plan Actuary should determinethat the full amount of the increase in contributionsis no longer required to amortizethe unfunded liability over the ten (10) year period
Page37
contemplated by this Agreement, the excess contributionswill be discontinued by each party accordingly.
Ic)	A Board of Trustees will be constitutedwith equal representationfrom the Union
and the Industry,to be responsibleforestablishingthetermsofthe Plan and the on-going administration.
d)	The Trustees will select a qualified actuary to assist them and to ensure the
establishmentof actuariallysound reserves to fund the benefits provided bythe Plan.
e)	The Trustees will enter into a Trust Agreement which will include provisionfor a procedureto settle any major dispute that may arise with regard to the provisions of the Plan.
f)	ProtectionAgainstWithdrawals- Withdrawingemployerto be assessedfor both the employer and employee share of the unfunded liability in cases of negotiated withdrawal, decertificationor relocationclosure. Unfunded liabilityformula to be uniform and based on Plan Unfunded Liabilitydivided by the total number of Plan members (at the time of most recent Plan Valuation) multiplied by the number of Plan members affected by the withdrawal. Trustees to be directed to amend the participationagreement accordingly.
Houston Forest Products,Babine ForestProductsand l.W.A.-CANADA will jointly consider plan modificationsthat will improve the delivery of Rehabilitationwithin the Long Term Disability Plan, and will encourage and facilitate the developmentand establishmentof Disability Management systems in participating employers' operations.
TheTrustees are directedto develop Plan modifications that will:
i.)	Improve the timeliness, effectivenessand quality of Rehabilitation
from the Plan
ii.) Provide incentivesto Employers and Local Unionsto establish Disability Managementsystems at the operations level.
In the event that there are savings to the Long Term Disability Plan as a result of either Disability ManagementSystems, or amendments to Rehabilitation,considerationcan be given to dispersal of these funds for further improvementsin either of the above areas.
Where the Trustees reach agreementon modifications in the above areas, implementationcan occur at the direction of the Trustees. Should additional funding be requiredto implementthe Trustees recommendations,their recommendations will be forwarded to the respective NegotiatingCommittees to be dealt with.
g)	Effective July 1, 2003, employees who become disabled on or after July 1, 2003,
Page 38
shall be eligibleto apply for LTD benefits after a twenty-six (26)week qualifying period.
ARTICLE XX - PENSION PLAN
Section 1:
The Parties agree to establish a Pension Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement of the Pension Sub Cc title 5 da
it 17, 1977.
ti 2
a)	i) The li y c bution tc the Pension Plan of one dollar seventy cents
($.70) rln r per lo; perl / kei, which became effective July 1,1988 will be increased by seventy cents (700) per f ur, effectiv J I; 1 1S 92, to two dollars forty cents ($2. i(') p hour per employee per hour worked Effective July 1 1993 employee contributions often cents [	0) p
hour per employee ei hour worked will be added to the above contribution rat'
ii)	dditional contributions will be in accordancewith the Memorandumcf Agreement signed July 2 2000
iii)	Additional itril tic ill be it :	with the Memorandum of
Agreement signed on October 30 2003 in Local 424 and the Memorandum of	nts July 2 2003 in 11-425
l	d L il lilil
Address tne n’s Unfi id y s i providing a one-time it of forty-four cents (440) per hour on November 1 1994, dan idi Ic ti itributii ffort\ fc t (44 perl on ly 1,1995 These contributions will )' based on II /A	r l y Pension Plan hours
worked by each c F the parties of the first part during the 1993 id 1 994 calendai years respectively and require no change to the ongoing shared $2 50/I contribute tefortheti of thi agreement
h< onl b If itched by other Pension Plan Participating Employers, /ill result in tf wii projectio s of ;l j ift Ii d ti i I li bility I d on contributory hours of 47 million I in 9	, le g to 46 million hours in
1995, and declining by one million hours per year in each succeeding year to 2001, u ng an 8% interest, issi n ti fo il purposes the Revised ilit Basis, and Triennial Valuatio:
1/1/1994
1/1/1995
1/1/1996
1/1/1997
$553.9 million $461.6 million $370.3 million $283.7 million
Page 39
1/1/1998
1/1/1999
1/1/2000
These contributions will allow the unfunded actuarial liabilityto be fully amortized in 7.7
years from 1/1/94. (The amortization period in the Preliminary Actuarial Valuation of
December31,1993 is 9.1 years from that date).
c)	Revised Plan
A revised plan will be developed during the life of the agreement, based on the two dollar fifty cents ($2.50) contribution rate during the life of the Agreement in accordancewithAppendix#1 oftheAugust 11,1997 Memorandum.
d)	Bridging Funds
The I.W.A. - Forest IndustryPension Plan Trusteeswill be directed to investigate the feasibility and implicationsofamending the Planto allow Company paid bridging funds to “flowthrough the Plan so as to enhance legal tax effectiveness.
e)	Graduated Retirement
Weldwood and the Union will participateon a committee to explore and implementchangesduring the term of the 2003-2009 Agreement.
ARTICLE XXI - JOB TRAINING
Covered by separate Local Agreement signed at each operation
ARTICLE XXII - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Section I:
a)	ApprenticeshipTraining Programswill be in accordancewith Supplement No. 3A & 3B or as revised hereafter.
b)	When implemented,the ApprenticeshipTraining Programshall provide that single persons undergoingtraining shall receive their wages, less any sum paid to them by the appropriate government authorities. Married persons shall receive their wages, less the amount paid by the ProvincialGovernment authorities to single persons,the intent being that the greater amount paid by the Provincial Governmentto married persons shall not become a benefit to the Company.
c)	In cases where the Apprentice is in receipt of a subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Governmentauthorities, the employer will pay the Apprentice while attending vocational school, the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate FederalGovernment authoritiesand the regular wages of the employee.
d)	That a Committee will be establishedto review and upgrade the Apprenticeship
Page40
Training Program
e)	ApprenticeshipSelection Tests be amended to provide improved selection criteria as in place in the Southern Interior.
f)	Duringthe term of the 2003-2009 Agreement, Weldwood and the Union will jointly seek access to Federal Government programs to decrease industry costs and increase apprentice benefits.
g)	Inthe first year of the 2003-2009 Agreement, Weldwood and the Union will explore avenues to increase apprentices and to enhance the current apprentice selectioncriteria.
Section 2:	Apprenticeship Selection Tests
Selection of Apprentices shall be governed by Supplement No. 3A, 3B, and 7.
ARTICLE XXill - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Section 1: Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Union not less than six (6) months in advance of intent to institute materialchanges in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or laying-offof employees.
Section 2:	Severance Pay
Employees discharged, laid off or displaced from their regularjob because of mechanization,technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of seven (7) day's pay for each year of servicewith the Company. The amount calculatedunder such entitlement shall not exceed a maximumof two hundred and ten (210) days pay. Employees have the option toterminatetheir employment and accept severance pay either (a) at the time of layoff, or (b) at the point seniority retention expires. This section shall not apply to employees covered by Section 3(b) below.
Section 3:	Rate Adjustment
a)	An employee who is set backto a lower paidjob because of mechanization, technological change or automation will receive the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setbackfor a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) monthshe/she will be paidan adjusted rate which will be midway betweenthe rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regularjob. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regularjob will apply. However, such employee will have the option of terminating his/her employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section2 above, providing he/she exercises this option within the above referred to six (6) month period.
b)	Followingan application of (a) above, where an employee is set backto a lower
Page41
paidjob because of an application of Article VIII Seniority broughton by mechanization, technological change or automation, he/she will receive the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setbackfor a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setbackand the rate of his/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month periodthe rate of his/her new regularjob will apply.
ARTICLE XXIV -SAFETY EQUIPMENT
a)	Where the following articles cf equipment are required to be used by the Company or the Worker's CompensationBoard,the Company shall, at no cost to the employee:
Supply employeeswith the articles of equipment as required
Replace articles of equipment when those articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair, that is to say:
1.	Aprons
2.	Hard Hats and	Liners
3.	Eye, Ear and	Nose	Protective Equipment
4.	Gloves
Notwithstandingthe foregoing, all articles of equipment to be replaced only when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair; otherwise the replacementwill be at the expense of the employee.
b)	Where a Company has been supplying safety equipmentand clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date of this Agreement, it will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
c)	The employer shall make coveralls available and maintainsame for use by End Sprayers, Panel Sprayers, Oilers, Filer-Grindermen,Power House employees and Tradesmen.
d)	Caulk Boot Allowance - An employee who is required to wear caulk boots by the Workers' Compensation Board shall receive annually a caulk boot allowance.
EffectiveJuly 1st, 1994 of one hundred and twenty dollars ($120.00).
j) If he has six (6)months or more seniority, or
jj) Upon obtaining six (6) months seniority,
iii) Seasonal lay-off shall not interfere with the qualifying period herein.
iii)
Page 42
ARTICLE XXV -TOOL INSURANCE
Upon the signing of the 1979 - 1981 Agreement, each Company at its own expense shall insurefor damage or loss caused by fire or flood, the tools of its employees which are required in the performanceof their work. This provision for tool insurance shall also apply to loss by theft where the tools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of fifty dollars ($50) in respectto each employee's claim.
ARTICLE XXVI - FIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT
The Fire FightingAgreementwill be in accordancewith Supplement No. 4.
ARTICLEXXVII - B.C. NORTHERNINTERIORSAWMILLAND POLEYARD JOB EVALUATION PLAN
Section 1:
a)	The PartiestothisAgreementmutuallyagreeto implement one Job Evaluation Programforthe sawmillingsection, effective September 1,1979 in accordance with the principlesand proceduressetout in a manual dated December, 1971 and entitled "InteriorSawmill Job Evaluation Manual" as amended July, 1973 and as further amended July, 1974; (but hereafter referredto asthe B.C. Northern Interior Sawmill and PoleyardJob Evaluation Manual) and to exclude any categoriesnot affected by Sawmill Job Evaluation.
b)	The attached Supplement No. 5, which providesforthe administrationof the program between the Partiesto this Agreement shall form part of the Collective Agreement effective September 1,1979.
c)	The processofjob evaluationwill be conducted in accordancewith the provisionsoftheB.C. Northern InteriorSawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan which shall includethe wage curve as set out i n Section 2 below, the present manual, present guidelines for manual interpretation, existing and/or new benchmarks, and existinggradings on record serving as a basisfor subsequent evaluation unlessamended as providedfor in Supplement No. 5.
d)	All categoriesand recordsshall stand as presently rate matched (job analysis) and/or evaluated in the Northern Interior Operations involved in the B.C. Northern InteriorSawmill and PoleyardJob Evaluation Plan, except where requests are submitted for evaluationor re-evaluation consistent with the principlesand proceduresof the Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan.
e} The Partiesagreetoworktowardsimplementationofthe revisedB.C. Northern InteriorSawmilland PoleyardJob Evaluation Plan by July 1,1993.
Page43
Section2:
The point range and incrementsfor the twenty-eight (28) groups in the Sawmill and PoleyardWage Curve are as follows:
Section 3:
a)	The base rate in all Wage Supplementsshall be that set out in Section 1 (a) of Article V- Wages, and shall be the minimum rate.
b)	Incumbentsin job categoriesfor which the wage rate is reduced as a result of Job Evaluation (hereinafterreferredto as '"red circle lobs") shall continue atthe original rate.
c)	i. The Partiesagreeto amendtheB.C. NorthernlnteriorSawmill and
PoleyardJob EvaluationPlan in accordancewith Appendix No. 1 of the October9,1994 Memorandum of Agreement. The amendments are to be completed by March31,1995. Ifthe amendmentsare not resolved by
Page44
March 31,1995 by the Evaluatorsand theB.C. Northern Interior Job Evaluationstanding Committee, the remainingworkto be completed will be referred to a Third Party for resolution.
ii. The Plan will be amended at sufficient costto effectivelyimplementthe provisionsof Appendix No.1 of the October 9,1994 Memorandumof Agreement at betweenfive cents(O.O50) and ten cents(O.1O0) per hour averaged over the total number of employeesin all categoriescovered by the Plan.
ARTICLE XXVIU- EDUCATION TRUST FUND (THE FUND)
The Parties agree to establish a Fund based cn the following parameters:
a)	The Fund to be structured so as to comply with all requirements of a trust as specified by Revenue Canada.
b)	The Industrywill contributeto the Fund and will continue such contributions throughoutthe period of the CollectiveAgreement. The contributionswill be one cent (10) per hour per employee per hour worked effective January 1, 1998;and, one cent (10) per hour per employee per hourworked effective July 1, 1998; and, one cent (10) per hour per employee per hourworked effective July 1,1999.
c)	The Fundswill be collected bythe IWA-Forest Industrypension plan Office and directed to the EducationTrust Fund.
d)	The Fund will be jointly trusteed by representativesas appointed bythe IWA-Canadaandthe industry.
e)	The Fundwill besubjectto annualauditsbyan independentpublic accounting firm selected bythe Trustees.
f)	The Fund will providefunding for the purpose as defined by the following: Education Fund Policy Statement
The strength of the IWA Canada relies on the continued commitment of the membership to effect positive change. There is an increasing need for our leadersand membershipto understandand respondto emerging issues affectingthe forest industryand/or our membership. V\fe need to renew and build upon the historic principlesof the IWA Canada through a comprehensive education program which will enrich union membershipand enhancethe objectives of the IWA Canada asa proud and progressive union.
To this end, the union will develop and deliver a wide range of programs which may include:
Grievance Handling
Page45
Collective Bargaining Environmentallssues Land Use Issues Stewards Training
ParliamentaryProcedure& Public Speaking
CommunicationSkills
LeadershipTraining
Economic Issues
BenefitsTraining
Health and Safety
Union History
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Fund will be used to developand deliverprograms, and to payfor administrationcosts, time lost from work to attend education and training, travel, accommodationand such other reasonable costs as the Working Committee determinesappropriate regardingthe operation and administrationof the Fund.
g)	The Working Committee will be comprised of representativesof each participating Local Unionwho would have responsibilityfor the development and delivery of Education and Training and Administration of Funds consistent with the purpose stated in pointf) above.
ARTICLEXXIX - CONTRACTINGOUT
a)	The Company will not contract out any work that is performed by employees in the Bargaining Unit at the effective date of the agreement.
b)	Current practicesin operationsshall be agreed on with the Local Union in writing. Until such time as agreement is reachedthe above Clause (A) only will apply.
ARTICLE XXX - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1:
The Parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the first (1st) day of July, 2003 to the thirtieth (30th)day of June, 2009, and thereafter, from year to yearunlessfour (4) months written notice <£ contrary intention is given by the Parties. The notice required hereundershall be validly and sufficiently served at the Head Office of the Party of the First Part or at the Local Office of the Local Officers of the Union, Party of the Second Part, at least four (4) months prior to the expiry of any yearly period. If no agreement is reached at the expiration of this contract and negotiationsare continued,the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time that a subsequent Agreement is reached, or until negotiationsare discontinued by either Party.
Page46
Section 2:
The Partieshereto agree that the operation <£ Sections 50(2) and 50(3) of the Labour Relations Code of British Columbia, R.S.B.C. 1992, C82 is excluded from this Agreement
DATED this_______24th_________day of January , 2005.
FOR:
FOR:
I.WA-CANADA
President
FinancialSecretary
FOR:
FOR:
TS CO. I.WA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424,
UCAC. 1-4^4,	sj
Financial Secretary
E.&. O. E
Paae 47
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1(A) BABINE FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. EVALUATEDWAGE SCALE
GROUP ■
Clean-up/SM Clean-up/PM Clean-up Yard
GROUP2
Strip Layer/Stacker
GROUP3
Strip Filer Kiln Swamper Strip Cutter/PM Log Deck Chaser Chipper Attendant/SM
GROUP4
Watchman
"J" Bar Bin Attendant/SM Greenchain Puller Planer Hoist Operator Trimmer Tailer Log Strapper
GROUP5
Car Blocker
"J” Bar Bin Attendant/PM Clean-up/Yard/Truck Trimmer Tailer/Pre-Sorter Log Checker
Lumber Wrapper/Recording GROUP6
GROUP 7
Chip Car Attendant Sample Bucker Bander Operator
GROUP8
Planer Feeder Planer Stacker Operator Drop Sorter‘B’
GROUP9
Stacker Operator/Kiln
GROUP I 0
D6 Cat Operator
Butt Reducer/Log Deck Chaser
Trimmer Feeder
GROUP 11
Planer/Feeder/Setup/PM GROUP 12
Forklift Operator/Cat 966/Kiln Log Cut-Off/Circular/#1 Log Cut-Off/Circular/#2 Log Cut-Off/Circular/#3 Log Cut-Off/Circular/#4 Forklift Operator/Plant
GROUP 13
EdgerOptimizer#1 EdgerOptimizer#2 Gang Sawyer/Circular
GROUP 15
Log Loader
Log Loader/Cat 966/SM Kiln Operator/Forklift
GROUP 16
GROUP 17
Canter/Gang/Barker 18” #1
GROUP18
Canter/Gang/Barker 18” #2 GROUP19
CanterfTwin Band/Barker 27" GRQUP20
Log Loader/Wagner L130
GROUP21
#2 Planerman/PM
Planer Grader
GROUP23
#1 Planerman/PM
Page 48
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1(B) HOUSTON FOREST PRODUCTS COEVALUATED WAGE SCALE
GROUP 1
Clean-up/SM
GROUP 3
Strip Layer/Stacker Watchman Strip Piler Kiln Swamper
Clean-up/Chipper Attendant
Trimspotter
“J" Bar Bin Attendant
GROUP4
Lumber Wrapper Log Deck Chaser Planer Chain Puller Planer Hoist Operator Chipper Attendant/SM
GROUPS
Log Sorter Chip Car Attendant Car Blocker Log Strapper
GROUP6
Log Strappei
GROUP 8
Bander Operator Planer Feeder Planer Stacker Operator
GROUP9
Planer Feeder/Hoist Stacker Operator/Kiln
GROUP 11
Trackmobile Operator Barker Operator/187#1 Barker Operator/18”/#2 Forklift/Cat 930/Car Loading Forklift/Cat 930/Planer
GROUP 12
Auto Trimmer/SM #1 & #2 Forklift/Cat 950/SM Forklift/Cat 966/Planer Gang Sawyer/Circular Log Cut-off/Circular/#l Log Cut-off/Circular/#2 Log Cut-off/Circular/#3 Log Cut-off/Circular/#4
GROUP 13
BarkerOperator/30”
D7 Cat Operator Edger Optimizer
GROUP 14
Chip’n’Saw Operator Chip’n’Saw Operator/#:! Chip’n’Saw Operator/Twin Band
Yard Clean-up/Equipment #2 Set Up Man
GROUP 15
Kiln Operator/Forklift Log Loader/Cat 966
GROUP 16
Canter/Quad Band Op
GROUP 17
Log Yard Quality Control
GROUP 18
Yard Equipment/Kiln Operator GROUP 20
Log Loader/Wagner L120
GROUP 21
Planer Grader
GROUP 23
#1 Planerman
Page 49
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1(C)
BABINE FOREST PRODUCTS C( HOUSTON FOREST PRODUCTS C NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES
Improver,
i months)
Painter Helper. First Year
Painter Improver, First Year
Painter Improver, Second Year (1st 6 months)
Painter Improver, Second Year (2nd 6 months)
Painter
Painter-Certified
Planermill Maintenance Technician ii Helper. During 1st 6 mnths
Planermill Maintenance Technician II Helper, 1st 6 mnths completed
Planermill Maintenance Technician li Improver. 1st Yr Completed
Planermill Maintenance Technician II - Non Certified
Planermill Maintenance Technician II - Certified
Planermill Maintenance Technician I - Improver
Planermill Maintenance Technician
Planermill Maintenance Technician I - Certified
Steamfitter/Pipefitter Helper, First Year
Steamfitter/Pipefitter Helper, Second Year
Steamfitter/Pipefitter Improver, Second Year (1st 6 months)
Steamfitter/Pipefitter improver. Second Year (2nd S months)
Steamfitter/Pipefitter
30.410
Steamfitter/Pipefitter - Certified
Welder
Welder-Certified

30,075.
30.675.
Welder - Certified and Qualified
Grinderman
Third Class Engineer
Fourth Class Engineer
Fireman (4th Class Tickets
Fireman
FILING ROOM CATEGORIES
Saw Fitter, First Year Completed
Saw Fitter, Last 6 months
Saw Fitter - with Certificate
30.445
Year (2nd 6_______
Millwright
Second Year
MISCELLANEOUS CATEGORIES - Manufacturing
Page 51
Page 52
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2.
ADJUSTMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS
In connection with the interpretationof certain clauses of the 1981 - 1983 Contract between the International Woodworkers of America and certain Interior Operators, the following interpretationsof the Contract have been agreed upon:
a)	With respectto call-timeas covered in Article VII, Section 7 or Sections, the following understandinghas been reached:
If the workers present themselves for work and due to any conditions beyond their control, there is no work available, they shall receive two hours pay unless sufficient warning has been given cancelling the work call for that day. However, if there is a possibilitythat work may be available within two hours of the regular starting time, the employer may request employeesto stay at their place of employment during the call time period.
b)	It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given cancellingthe work call for the first or day shift, provided notice has been given over Radio Station BVLD/CFLD, wherever possiblethe previousevening but not laterthan one and one-half {VA) hours before shift commenceswith two (2,)broadcastswithin a half-hourperiod.
c)	It shall be deemed sufficient notice cancellingthe call for work for nightshift when notice has been given over Radio Station BVLD/CFLD during the hours 12:00 noon to 1:00 p.m., but not laterthan three hours beforeshift commenceswith two (^broadcasts within a half-hourperiod. The above shall apply only within a fifty mile (50) radius of Burns Lake or Houston as applicable.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3A APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
between
BABINE FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. HOUSTON FOREST PRODUCTS CO.
and
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424
in co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP & INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledgeand skill of persons employed by the Company as Journeymen, Improvers, or Helpers in respectto the trades named in Article II herein
ARTICLE II -TRADES
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Millwright	-	4	year	program
Heavy Duty Mechanic- 4 year program Steamfitter-Pipetitter - 4 year program Machinist	-	4	year	program
Electrician	-	4	year	program
Welder	-	to	be	established
ARTICLE III -GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Section 1:	CollectiveAgreement
All provisions of the CollectiveAgreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this program.
Page 54
Section 2:	Right to Continue
Once started in the Program, subject however to the provisionsof the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he passes all of the prescribedtests and work is availableto him.
Section 3:	Tests
Upon completion of each period of training in the Vocational School, an Apprentice will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he shall be required to withdraw from the Program.
gjprtion 4:	Meaning of "Year"
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Improverit shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days; the said period to includetime spent at the VocationalSchool.
Sections:	Training Time Entitlement
Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice who is hired by the Company and who has had training in anotherapprenticeshipplan will be given recognition of such training time.
Section 6:	On-the-Job-T raining
The Company will ensure that the Apprenticeswill be given the necessary on-the-job practicaltraining.
ARTICLE IV- SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
Section 1:	Seniority
When the Company requiresApprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicantsselected in accordancewith the provisionsof Article VIII of the CollectiveAgreement.
Section 2:	Successful Applicants
Successfulapplicants will be assigned as Helpersfor a three (3) month probationary period, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
Section 3:	Entrance Standards
Entranceto the Programwill in all cases be subject to the applicant meeting the standards requiredfor acceptance by the Apprenticeship and IndustrialTraining Branch.
Section 4:	Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpers and Improversemployed by the Company must enter the Program. Helpers and Improvers who cannot qualify in the Program will be reclassified as Labourerswith no reduction in rate of pay, until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain a job with equal or a higher rate of pay.
Section 5:
Labourerswill not be employed in a manner that will interfere with the application of the Program.
Section 6: Age Limit
There will be no age limit for applicants.
ARTICLE V -TRAINING SCHEDULES
Section 1: Assignment as Helper
All successful applicants, except Welder Apprentices, (see appropriateappendix), will be registered as Apprenticesand assigned as Helpers for an eleven (11) month period, prior to attending Vocational School, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
A program for the aforementionedWelder Apprentices will be established by June 1st,
1968.			
Section 2: 5 Year Schedule			
	Ratina	At Operation	At School
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fifth Year	Helper Helper Improver Improver Improver	first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months	last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Page 56
Section 3:	4 Year Schedule
First Year	Helper
Second Year Helper Third Year	Improver
Fourth Year Improver
first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Section 4:	3 Year Schedule
FirstYear	Helper	first	11	months
Second Year	Improver	first	11	months
Third Year	Improver	first 11	months
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Section 5:	Electrician
Notwithstandingthe provisions of Section 2, 3 and 4 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shall be requiredtotake eight (8) weeks at school during each year of the Program instead of four (4) weeks, with the period in the operation reduced accordingly.
Section 6:	Passing Test
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribedtest before promotion from Helper to Improver.
Section 7:	Journeyman Qualifications
Subject to the conditionsof this Section as listed below, it is agreed that following completion of the period of required training and upon becomingcertified, the journeyman shall receive the certified journeyman's rate of pay.
Conditions under which the above will apply:
a)	Only to a Journeymanwho has gone through the indentured apprenticeship training program under the sponsorship of the Companyfor which he is working.
b)	That he is working in the maintenancedepartment
c)	That all work normally done by the maintenancedepartment is being performed bythe persons employed in the maintenancedepartment.
d)	That nothing in this clause shall prohibitthe laying off of journeymen, helpersor apprentices if they are not required.
e)	That a journeyman may, when facing lay-off, choose to exercise his seniority into categories outside of the maintenancearea at the job rate if his seniority and ability entitle him to do so.
Page 57
Section 8: Vocational School Delay
If any of the periods providedfor in Section 2,3,4, or 5 herein are exceeded by reason of Vocational School facilities being unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeedingtraining requirements.
ARTICLE VI -WAGE RATES
Section I : Rates and Increments
a)	Wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement.
b)	An Apprentice who passes histest shall receive an incrementagreed to between the Company and the Union during hissecondterm year as a Helper.
C) The Wage Rateforan Improvershall be that as specified intheWage Supplement.
d)	An Apprentice who passesatest inthe fourth periodofvocationaltraining shall receive an incrementagreed to between the Company and the Union during his second term as an Improver
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen, and who are certified as such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade, as agreed to between the Company and the Union.
Section 2:	Expenses
Fares, Lost Time Pay and School Expenses are to be paid by the appropriate Governmentauthorities as part of the cost of the Apprenticeship Plan, with the exception that the Company shall pay the single Apprentice while attending Vocational School, the difference betweenthe subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Married persons shall receive their wages, less the amount paid by the Provincial Government authoritiesto single persons. The intent being, that the greater amount paid by the Provincial Governmentauthorities to married persons shall not become a benefit to the Company.
In cases where the Apprentice is in receipt of a subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authoritiesthe Company will pay the Apprentice while attending Vocational Schoolthe difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Governmentauthorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Page 58
A Joint Committee will be establishedto review and update the November 28,1967 Apprenticeship Agreement in accordancewith Appendix No. 3 ofthis Memorandumof Agreement.
Section 3:	Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one of the tests under this Program,through no fault of his own, the delay shall not prejudicehis right to wage increments provided for in Section 1 herein.
ARTICLE V» -ADVISORY BOARD
Section 1: Constitution
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two (2) representativesof the Industry,two (2) from the Union, one (1) representingthe Vocational School, and one (1) from the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
Section 2:	Responsibility
The Board shall be responsible for advisingthe Department of Labour,Apprenticeship and IndustrialTraining Branch, regarding the content of tests, standards of marking, and the school curriculumwith respect to registeredApprentices. The Board shall not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests.
ARTICLE V1H - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
Persons presently employed as Journeymen,who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 2:
Persons employed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesman Qualification Exam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 3:
If a present Journeyman fails to pass the test for a voluntary Tradesmen's Qualifications Certificate, he can then become indenturedas an Apprentice at no reduction in rate of pay.

Page 59
Section 4:
There will be a three (3) man committee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen's Qualifications who become indentured under the Apprenticeshipand Tradesmen's Qualification Act The Committee will also determinewhat vocational training is necessaryfor persons indentured as Apprentices. Representation on the committee shall consist of the following:
a	One (1) Representative from the Union.
b.	One (1) Representative from the Industry.
c.	One (1) Representative from the Apprenticeship Branch.
Vocational training will be conducted during day courses. Textbooks and study material will be made available when required.
ARTICLE IX -TOOLS
Section I:
All Journeymen tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for the Journeyman rate, unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibilityof the Journeyman.
Section 2:
The Improver shall be requiredto have and maintain a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of building up the necessary tools to equip himself for the job.
Section 3:
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools and shall use those designated to him. However,in his own interest he should commence the process of building up a tool kit.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3 B AGREEMENT
APPRENTICESHIPTRAINING PROGRAM in respect to the
TRADES OF FILING AND FITTING
BETWEEN:
BABINE FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. HOUSTON FOREST PRODUCTS CO
AND:
I.W.A.-CANADA
LOCAL 1-424, A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C GENERAL PRINCIPLES
1. Plan "A"- Sawfitter’s Apprenticeship Training Program.
To cover the trade of a Sawfitter which is defined as follows:
To be competent to fit all types of saws, circular saws, band saws, gang saws, chain saws, etc.
a)	Operate, repair and adjust all saw sharpening equipment and tools.
b)	Basic techniques in welding cf saws.
c)	Maintain guides and water lines.
d)	Basic techniques in benching of circular saws, slashers and trim saws.
NOTE:	It is agreedthatthe Partieswill not usethetraining program to changethe
job content of the jobs of the present Sawfitters.
Plan "B" - Circular Saw Filer Apprenticeship Training Program.
To cover the trade of a Circular Saw Filerwhich is defined as follows:
Must be a qualified Saw Fitter and be competent to bench all circular and gang saws (tensioning,weld cracks and weld on teeth): beableto repairand maintain all filing room equipment; also must have a working knowledgeof allied mill equipment, only as it applies to his job.
Plan "C" - Benchman Apprenticeship Training Program.
Tocoverthetradeofa Benchmanwhich is defined as follows:
Must be a qualified Saw Fitter and CircularSaw Filer, in addition be ableto bench circular and bandsaws. Must have a working knowledge of ail allied sawmill machineryincludingthe lining up of head rigs and grinding of band wheels.
2.	The Parties agreethatthe object of the above Plans is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed as filers and fitters in the industry.
3.	The normal period of trainingwill be:
SAFETY is an important part of the training program as outlined below; as such it forms an integral part of each phrase of the program.
a)	Saw Fitters:
Pre-apprenticeship Training- In plant three months
1st term:	Three (3) weeks at school, depending on size cf class, - then
writes an examination. Eleven (11) months in-planttraining.
2nd term:	Three (3) weeks at school -then writes an examination
Eight (8) months in-plant training.
3rdterm:	Three (3) weeks at school-then writes an examination. If
he passes the test, he becomes certified as a Saw Fitter.
b)	Circular Saw Filers:
Must spend a minimum of three (3) months in-plant training as an apprentice circular Saw Filer.
1st term:	Four (4) weeks at school, then writes an examination. Eight
(8) months in-planttraining.
2nd term:	Two (2) weeks at school, then writes an examination. If he
passesthe test, he becomes a Certified Circular Saw Filer.
c)	Benchman:
Must spend a minimum of three (3) months in-plant training as an apprentice Benchman.
1st term:	Three (3) weeks at school, then writes an examination.
Eleven (11) months in-planttraining.
2nd term:	Two (2)weeks at school, then writes an examination. If he
passesthe test, he becomes a certified Benchman.
NOTE:	The above periods of in-school training may be altered by mutual
agreement, subject to the experience in the Industryand in consultation with the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Education.
4.	All provisionsof the CollectiveAgreement will be applicable to apprentices in this Plan.
5.	Once started in this Plan, the apprentice, subject howevertothe provisionsof the CollectiveAgreement, will have the right to continue in any one program providinghe passes all of the prescribed tests and work being availableto him.
6.	a) Upon completion of each period of training in the Vocational School, an
apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the apprentice Saw Fitter will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test he will be required to withdraw from the Plan. Any Saw Fitter apprentice who fails to qualify at any stage in the Program will be allowed to apply his seniority as it is applied in a lay-off. On completion of the third period of training in Vocational School an apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to pass a test. On passing the test he will become a certified Saw Fitter.
b)	On completion of the first periodoftraining in Vocational School an
apprentice Circular Saw Filerwill be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test the apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test he will be required to withdrawfrom the program and return to the position cfa Saw Fitter.
On completion of the second period of training in Vocational School an apprentice Circular Saw Filerwill be required to passatest. On passing the test he will become a Certified Circular Sawfiler. In the eventthat he
Page 63
fails to pass the test, he will be given a second opportunity. If he passes the test on the second occasion he becomes a Certified Circular Saw Filer. Should he fail to pass the test on the second occasion he will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that of a Saw Fitter.
c)	Upon completion of the first period of training in Vocational School an
apprentice Benchmanwill be requiredto passatest. Inthe event of failure to pass such a test the apprentice Benchmanwill be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position of a Circular Saw Filer.
On completionof the second period of training in Vocational School an apprentice Benchman will be requiredto pass a test. On passingthe test he will become a Certified Benchman. In the event that he fails to pass the test, he will be given a second opportunity. If he passes the test on the second occasion he becomes a Certified Benchman. Should he fail to passthetest on the second occasion he will be requiredto withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that of a Circular Saw Filer.
7.	Wherever reference is made to a year as an Apprentice, it will mean a period of not less than two hundred (200)working days, the said period to includetime spent at the Vocational School. In the event a participantworks less than two hundred (200) days and has attended Vocational School within the year, he may be given an opportunityto take the requiredtest.
8.	Subjecttothe provisionsherein, an apprentice will beentitledto recognitionof training time inthe Plan inthe event of his moving from one Company inthe Industry to another.
SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
1.	a) Present trainees who are employed full-time will be indenturedin the program.
b)	Upon enteringthefiling room, spareswill be indentured intothe apprenticeship program, subject to the limitationsof General Principles Point Five (5) contained herein.
c)	Subject to General Principles, Point Five (5), trainees will be allowed to complete their program to meet the requirements of the operation in which they work.
d)	Saw Fitter Apprentices - It is agreed that the vacancy will be posted inthe operation and applicants selected in accordance with the provisionsof Article VIII - Seniority.
Page 64
e)	Circular Saw FilerApprentices- Itisagreedthatthevacancywill be posted in the operationand applicants selected in accordance with Article VIII Seniority. Applicantsmust be Certified Saw Fitters.
f)	Benchman Apprentices- itisagreedthatthevacancywill bepostedinthe operationand applicants selected in accordancewith Article VIII Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Saw Filers.
CERTIFICATION OF PRESENT TRADESMEN
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers and Benchmenemployed in the Industry who do not wish to become certifiedshall not have their seniority rights prejudicedthrough lack of certification.
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers and Benchmenwill have the right to write a qualifying examination in their respectiveclassification. If they pass the examination they shall receive the appropriate certified rate. If they fail the examination they shall be slotted into the appropriate apprenticeshipprogram with the view to upgrading and eventually becoming certified. Should they fail as per the steps outlined in Point Six (a), (b) or (c) they will besubjecttothe provisionsoutlined therein. PresentTradesmenwho write theTradesmen Qualification Examinationwill be tested on the basis of thejob content cf the presentjobs in the filing room in which they work.
ADVISORY BOARD
1.	There will be an Advisory Board consisting of two (2) representativesof the Industry, two (2,)fromthe Union, one (1) representing the Vocational School and one (1) from the Apprenticeship Branch.
2.	The Board will be responsiblefor advising the appropriate school authorities, Departmentof Education and Department of Labour regarding the content of tests, standards of marking and the school curriculum.
3.	The Board will not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests.
OUTLINE OF THE FILERS AND FITTERS TRAINING PROGRAM FITTERS APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM 1st TERM:
Instruction Breakdown Weeks
Work Involved
Fitting band saws and	3	Reasons for swage Swage gangs and shaper
adjustment Reasons for crumble, etc Tooth profile,Tooth alignment, Sharpeneroperation
Page 65
Fitting Circular Saws
Grinding wheels Instruction oftypes, dressing, etc.
2nd TERM:
Review of 1st year	3
school training.
Repair and adjust equipment used by a fitter.
All phases of filing room welding (acetylene)
Theory and practical
All phases of chainsaw
filing
Carbide (tipping and dressing only)
3rd TERM:
Review 2nd Term	3
Preliminary circular saw anvil instructions
Capable cf hammering slashers, trim saws
Guide maintenanceon bandsaws straightand pressure.
Shear board setting Wheel scrapers Water lines
Setting and sharpening of cut off saws. Automatic and hand gumming. Swaging, shaping and Sharpening circular rip saws. Automatic and hand sharpening. Spring set circular rip saws. Sharpeningand retoothing Insertedtooth cut off and rip.
As 1st year
Gauge setting Flame Adjustment Tip size
Torch Handling Penetration Welding Cracks
Preparing seats Brazing in carbide Teeth - dressing
Leveling, tensioning plumbing
Theory
Point build up Tooth replacement
Page 66
Welding
Benchingcf welds
CIRCULAR SAW FILER'S APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM 1st TERM:
To become proficient 4 in hammeringall circular saws, rip and cut cf used in sawmill and planer 2nd TERM:	Level and tension, plumb All circular saws including hollow ground (theory 108 cut off) Thin edgers Carbide double arbour Review of Basic Shop Mathematics
Benching gang saws 2 stretcher roll and heat	Leveling tension and back Check tabs
Filing room machine maintenance. Be able to maintain and repair all filing room equipment. Trouble shooting of Circular Saw machinery	Theory
BENCHMAN APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM 1st TERM:
Instruction Breakdown Weeks	Work Involved
Complete bandsaw-bench 3 work (roll stretcher and heat) Strain calculations	Bench bandsaws in entirety stretcher roll and heat
Welding Learn alignment of mill machines.	Further training
Head rig, edger, resaws, trim, cut-off, etc. Band Mill Wheel Grinding	Theory
Page 67
2nd TERM:
Saw Capacity Study	2
Feeds, tooth bite, Gullet capacity, Saw speeds,
Tooth spacing (circular and band)
Trouble Shooting.
Theory
Page 68
SUPPLEMENT NO.4 FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
The following terms and conditionsshall be applicable for the duration of the current CollectiveAgreement during "Company ResponsibilityFires".
It is understoodthat the terms of this Agreement only apply to the employeesinthe employ of the Company at the time the fire started. Any person hired for firefighting after the start of the fire will work underthe rates and conditionsas required bytheB.C. ForestService.
1.	DEFINITIONS
a)	Accidental Fire:
Any fire not deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, and which required active measures to extinguish.
b)	Slash Escape Fire:
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which has escaped the predetermined boundariesand requiresactive measuresto extinguish.
c)	Slash Control Fire:
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which is contained within the predeterminedboundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control does not require active measuresas contemplated in (a) and (b) above.
d)	Company Responsibility Fire:
Any fire which the Company is responsiblefor taking measuresto extinguish pursuant to the provisionsof the ForestAct.
e)	Forest Service Fire:
Any fire in respect of which theB. C. ForestService accepts responsibilityfor direction of measures to extinguish.
f)	Fire Fighting Rates:
The rates of pay for fighting Company ResponsibilityFires hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
Page 69
g)	Regular Job Rates:
Rates of pay to employees for the performanceof their regularjobs, as set out in the Wage Supplement of the Collective Agreement.
h)	Statutory Rates:
Ratesof pay established by B.C. Forest Service for fire fighting
2.	COMPANY CONTROLLEDTIMBER
a)	Notwithstandingthe foregoing, when the Company directs Company employees to fight fire on Company controlled timber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Companycontrolledtimberwhich is threatening Companycontrolledtimber, the Company will pay those employees at the firefighting rates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement.
b)	Where theB.C. ForestServicedirectsthe Companyto provide Us employees for fighting fires in circumstances other than those set out in (a) above, those employeeswill be paid at the statutory rate.
3.	FIRE FIGHTING RATES
a)	The basic rate shall be the base rate shown in the CollectiveAgreement and shall apply to all employees engaged in fighting Company Responsibility Fires except those performingone of the following fire fighting jobs:
Category Crew Boss
Cat Operators
Skidder Operators
Power Saw Operators
Mechanics/Heavy Duty
Slip-on Tank and/or Trailer Tanks with Pump/Driver Operator
Water Tank Truck with Pulp/Driver Operator
SeiviceTrucks/Bus
Drivers
Pumpman
July 1/03 July 1/04 July 1/05 July 1/06 July 1/07 July1/08 $24.98	'	'
$23.54
23.48
23.06
22.95
$24.01
23.95
23.52
$24.49
24.43
23.99
24.92
24.47
23.41	23.88	24.3
'Mechanics Regular Job Rate
23.27	23.74	24.21	24.6
$25.48
25.42
24.96
24.85
$26.24
26.18
25.71
25.60
25.18	25.94
22.71	23.16	23.62	24.09	24.57	25.31
22.63	23.08	23.54	24.01	24.49	25.22
22.67	23.12	23.58	24.05	24.53	25.27
Page70
b)	Straight time rates will apply to all employeesthroughout the period during which the said employees are engaged in fire fighting. This shall not include wok and bunkhouse personnel,tradesmen, mechanics, or other categories servicing, feeding or supplying fire fighters from areas removed from the area of the fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day in question are exclusively relatedto fire fighting operations.
c)	Regularjob rates will apply only for the duration of the regular production shift in which the fire started.
d)	Where employees are working in job classifications during fire fighting, other than those set out herein, job rates will apply.
4.	BOARD AND LODGING (WHILE FIGHTINGCOMPANY RESPONSIBILITYFIRES)
a)	Employeeswho commute from home to camp are expected to '"carry a lunch". Additional meals where requiredwill be at Company expense.
b)	Employees requiredto live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
c)	Employeesliving in	fly-in camps will receive board and lodging at Company
expense.
5.	TRAVEL TIME
Travel time for employees engaged in fire fighting will be paid in accordance with the CollectiveAgreement.
6.	SLASH BURNING
All employees engaged in patrollingor controlling slash fires which have been set by the Companywill be paid their regularjob rate and overtime conditionswill apply.
7.	INTERPRETATIVE	NOTES
a)	When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtimeconditions for fire patrol will revert to the normal conditions provided for in the Collective Agreement.
b)	The meaning of the word '"extinguish"as used in this Agreement shall include the act or process of suppressionto the point when the fire requiresfire patrolmen only.
c)	All provisionscf the CollectiveAgreement except as amended or modified shall continue to apply.
Page 71
SUPPLEMENT NO. 5
B.C. NORTHERN INTERIOR SAWMILL AND POLEYARD JOB EVALUATION PLAN
ARTICLE 1 -PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
The Partiesto this Agreement mutuallyagree to implementand administera Job Evaluation Program for the Northern InteriorSawmilling Section, effective September 1, 1979, in accordance with the principlesand proceduresadopted in the British Columbia Northern Interior Sawmill and PoleyardJob Evaluation Manual (herein referredto as the "Manual"). Guidelines for manual interpretationand gradings on record will serve as the basisfor subsequent evaluation consistent with any future decisions rendered by the Industry Standing Committee.
ARTICLE 2 -INDUSTRY STANDING COMMITTEE
There shall be a Standing Committee constituted and named the B.C. Northern Interior Industry Standing committee to consist of one (l)designated representativeof the C.O.N.I.F.E.R. Group, one (l)designated representativeof NorthwoodGroup, one (1) designated representativeof Canadian Forest Products Limited,one (1) designated representativeof the Babine/Houston Group, and two (2Jor more designated representativesof Regional Council No. 1 of the Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada.
ARTICLE 3 -FUNCTION OF THE INDUSTRY STANDING COMMITTEE
The B.C. Northern Interior Industrystanding Committee shall provide general oversight
of the operation of the Plan with responsibilityof:
a)	Resolving all job evaluation problems referred by the Sawmill Evaluation Committees;
b)	Resolving any otherjob evaluation matters involvingthe Job Evaluation Plan which fall within itsjurisdiction.
ARTICLE 4 -INDUSTRY JOB EVALUATIONCOMMITTEE
a) Each Company participatingin the B.C. Northern InteriorSawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan shall designate an evaluator to be its member representativeto its IndustryJob Evaluation committee (hereinafter referred to as the Sawmill Job Evaluation Committee)and the IWA Regional Council No. 1
Page 72
shall designate one (1) member representative.
b)	Wherever possiblethe effortsbythe members ofthe Sawmill Job Evaluation Committee may be consolidated for practical purposes.
ARTICLE 5 - FUNCTIONOF SAWMILL EVALUATIONCOMMITTEE
a)	The Sawmill EvaluationCommittee shall assume general responsibilityfor the uniform administrationof the Job Evaluation Program in accordance with Article 3 ofthis Supplement.
b)	The unanimousdecisionofthe said Committee shall be final and bindingonthe Parties hereto.
ARTICLE 6 ■ PLANT JOB REVIEWCOMMITTEE
a)	There shall be a Committee constitutedin each Sawmill Plan named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referred to as "Review Committee")to consist of two (2) members representativeof Managementandtwo (2) members representativeofthe employees. At leastone (1) representativeof Management must be a member ofthe Plant's salaried staff or Management, and at leastone (1) representativeof the employees must be an employee of the Plant whosejob is subject to Sawmill Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representativefrom amongst persons not employed at the plant and the Union may do likewise except that neither party may choose as its representativea member ofthe Sawmill EvaluationCommittee or any person who is employed as a job evaluator by the Company or by the Regional Council No. 1 ofthe IWA.
b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly-paidemployees for time lostfrom his/her regular work schedule while acting as a member ofthe Review Committee or while presenting information, regardinghis/her ownjob, beforea regularly convened meetingof the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsiblefor remuneratingemployee representativeswho are not its hourly-paidemployees.
ARTICLE 7 - FUNCTIONOF REVIEW COMMITTEE
a) The Review Committee will be responsiblefor seeing that all requestsfor
evaluation or re-evaluation cf jobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Sawmill Evaluation Committeefor further action. The documents required will include a "Request for Job Evaluation"form submitted either by an individual employee or by local Management, and a fully completed "Job Study Record"form which providessufficient informationforthe subsequent work of the Sawmill Evaluation Committee. The form of the documents, the proceduresfor submitting and handling them and the time limits for completion may be amended as required by the Sawmill Evaluation
Page 73
Committee in accordance with Article 5 of this Supplement.
b)	Decisions of the Review committee respectingthe appropriatenessof a request for evaluation or re- evaluation, or respectingthe adequacy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failingsuch agreementwithin the established time limit, the Review Committee shall at the request of any one of its members, immediatelyforwardthe Requestfor Job Evaluation,togetherwith any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibilityfor documentingthat request.
c)	When the Sawmill EvaluationCommittee has made a decision respecting the evaluationof a job, it shall communicate that decision to the appropriate Review committee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Managementand the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committeethat an Application for Job Evaluationshould not be forwarded to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee will, similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
d)	Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Sawmill Evaluation committee to determinethe facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend any job descriptions or grading sheet submitted to them in support of a Request for Job Evaluationform.
ARTICLE 8 -APPLICATION OF PROGRAM
The Job Evaluation Program shall apply to all hourly paid employees in the B. C Northern Interior Sawmill Industryexceptthose categories listed below:
Millwright
Machinist
Blacksmith
Welder
Pipefitter- including
Sprinklerman
Mechanics
Electrician
Painter
Carpenter
Bricklayer Steam Fitter Boilermaker
Saw Filers, Fitters, Benchman & Helpers
Engineers (Boiler House)
Firemen (Boiler House) Grinderman
Oilers and Improvers and Helpers to the above trades
ARTICLE 9 - DIRECTION OF WORK
Job Evaluationdescriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirementsof the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restrictionon the right of the Company to create a new job or to assign duties to employees other than
those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that if the assignment of such duties changes the job content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation the Sawmill EvaluationCommittee shall make such a review in accordancewith the procedure set out herein.
ARTICLE 10 -RE-EVALUATION
a)	When a job has moved to a higher group as a result of re- evaluation,the resulting rate shall be retroactivefrom thedatethat Managementorthe em ployee has applied to the Review Comm itteefor re-evaluation.
b)	When a job has movedto a lowergrade as a resulted re-evaluation, the incumbentshall maintain his/her job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisionsof Article 12 herein.
ARTICLE 11 - NEW JOBS CREATED
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a new job, a temporary rate shall
be set by Management.
a)	When the evaluated rate for a new job is higher than the temporary rate, the resulting rate shall be retroactivefrom the date that the job was installed.
b)	When the evaluated rate for a new job is lowerthan the temporary rate, the incumbent(s) shall continuethe temporary rate.
ARTICLE 12 -RED CIRCLE PROTECTION
a)	The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circle jobs, the said list to includethe name of the employee, name of the job category filled, the evaluated rate for the job, and the actual rate paid.
b)	Employeeson red circle rates who are promotedto a higher rate shall regainthe red circle rate if subsequently found incompetentto continue in the higher grade.
c)	Employeesholding red circle jobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rateforthejobtowhichtheyareassigned. Ifat a later date, an employee is reassignedto his former job, he shall regain his red circle rate.
d)	When the Companyterminatesajob, orajob is not occupied during a period of one (1) year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicablejob descriptionand classificationshall be established.
e)	If an employee is temporarilytransferred at the request of the Company, he shall retain his existing rate or receive the rate for the newjob, whichever is higher.
Page75
On return to his regularjob, the said employee shall regain his red circle rate.
ARTICLE 13 -SENIORITY
Subject to the provisions herein set out, Article VIII -Seniority of this Agreement shall
continue to apply.
ARTICLE 14 -REFERRAL PROCEDURE
a)	When the Sawmill EvaluationCommittee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review committee.
b)	When an employee's request for re-evaluation results in no change being made in the job grade, or in a reduction,or when a Management request results in no change or in an increase, the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall give to the appropriate Review committee a short statement of the reasons for the decision. The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used i n sufficient depth to show the applicantthat the request was given adequate attention.
c)	An evaluation done by the Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the parties, but at any time after five (5) years since the last evaluation or re-evaluationof a job, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
d)	If the Sawmill Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Requestfor Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the Job Evaluation Program which falls within theirjurisdictionthe mattershall be referredto the B. C. Northern Interior Industry Standing Committee for settlement.
e)	All communication between any Plant Review Committeeand the Sawmill Evaluation committee referred to above shall be effective by sending one (1) copy to the Union representativeor representatives on the committee and one (1) copy to the Employer representativeor representatives. In the case of communicationsto a Plant Review Committee, the Union representativeswill be addressed care of the office of the appropriate Union Local. In the case of communicationsto the Sawmill EvaluationCommittee, the Union representative will be addressed care of the offices of Regional Council No. 1 of the IWA and the Employer representativecare of the offices of the Company. The Employer representativewill then designatetheir evaluator regarding the disposition of any request for job evaluation.
Page 76
ARTICLE 15 - TRAINING PROGRAM
A program of training for members cf the Review Committee in each plant shall be instituted, the details (f which shall be arranged by those companies included and the IWA Regional Council in the B.C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan.
Page 77
APPENDIX N0.1
NORTHERN INTERIORSAWMILL& POLEYARD JOB EVALUATION PLAN
1.	INTENTAND PURPOSE
To modify the existing thirteen (13) factor British Columbia Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan by providing additional recognition where appropriateto recognizethe impact of Automation and Technological change.
2.	METHOD
The parties will jointly develop new and/or additional Job Grading Criteria, Grading Rule Guidelinesand Benchmark Jobs.
Modification to the number of Factors and the degree of points credited in those Factorswill be consideredin order to meet the following objectives.
3.	OBJECTIVES
To recognizethe overall impact on Production Flow and the responsibility^) maintainand/or increasethe Recovery, Grade and Qualityofthe product.
When additional production processingmachines are simultaneouslycontrolled by the operator or are optimizedto affect the product, the Plan will include criteria to appropriatelyreflectthe operator's responsibilities.
4.	LIMITATIONS
Without limiting the ability of the British Columbia Northern Interior Job Evaluation Committee in the applicationof their general responsibilities,the criteria as outlined above shall not result in the compounding of credits as outlined in the guidelines contained therein.
5.	IMPLEMENTATION
The British Columbia Northern Interior IndustryJob Evaluation Committee will develop appropriate Evaluationdocuments to support its objectives.
Page 78
Section 1:
SUPPLEMENT NO. 6
CONSTRUCTIONCONTRACTING
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Companyto carry out work directly relatedto '"new" constructionwith tradesmen employed by an outside contractor, plant tradesmen will be paidthe "outside" contractor(s) rate(s).
Section 2:
For the purpose cf this Agreement "new" construction shall be defined as meaning:
(a)	The construction of major new buildings and major additionsto existing buildings.
(b)	The addition of new or used major production machinery and related equipment not previouslyin existence.
Section 3:
(a)	"Tradesmen" shall meanjourneymen and apprentices in the followingtrades:
Machinist	Millwright
Steamfitter/Pipefitter	Welder
Electrician	Carpenter
(b)	"Contractor'srate" shall only mean the hourly wage paid bythatcontractorand not any other payment or working conditions.
(c)	"Contractor's Rate" will not exceed the rates for similar trades paid by IWA construction companies.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 7
SELECTION OF APPRENTICE PROCEDURE
1.	PURPOSE
The purpose of this agreement is to establishan equitable criteria which will give management reasonable assurancethat the apprentice, upon completion of his indentureship,will become a proficienttradesman and to assure the Union and its members that the senior applicant who meets the criteria will become an apprentice
2.	EDUCATIONAL PREREQUISITES
The educational requirementfor general trades is Grade 10 or equivalent and Grade 12 or equivalent for the electrical trades.
3.	APTITUDE TESTING
Applicantswill be tested in accordancewith the bank of tests as recommended by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour. Testing procedurewill be as follows:
a)	A standard set of testing instructionsand procedures will be developed and authorized by the parties to this agreement and communicatedto appropriate management and union personnel.
b)	The passing grade for the tests will be established by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour.
c)	The passing marks for the	Mechanical Trades and Electricaltests are
established as being a combined requirement of, firstly. seventy percent (70%) in the MechanicalAptitude and Space Relations segments of the tests, and, secondly, seventy percent (70%) in the overall final scoring of the tests.
d)	All scoring computations of percentages in each section and overall scores of the tests are recorded as being rounded cff to the next highest percentage point where any fraction of a percentage point exists.
e)	Tests will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by Management; a Union representativewill be present when the tests are given and marked.
f)	Tests recommendedfor the self-evaluation will be made available and may be taken by an interested employee. Failure to take such tests shall not jeopardize an employee's application for any apprenticeship.
Page80
4.	RE-TESTING
a)	It is agreed that where an applicant has failed to pass the Mechanical Aptitude and Space RelationsSection of eitherthe Mechanicalor Electricaltests, the employeewill be allowedto bid and be re-testedone (1) additional time for each test.
b)	Resultsof all tests will be retained on file in the company's office. An applicant who has met the criteria and successfully passed the requisitetest and is the senior for any future apprenticeship posting within a three (3) year period, will be considered the successful applicant.
c)	An applicant who qualifies and has passed the MechanicalAptitude and Space Relationssection cf any of the available tests, but failed the overall test, will be eligible to bid and be re-testedfor any future apprenticeship posting.
d)	A master copy of the tests will be made availableto IWA Regional Council No. 1 on request.
5.	MAINTENANCE. MONITORING.AND DISTRIBUTION OF TESTS
a)	Sufficient copies of the tests, answer sheets, and marking overlays will be maintained by Weldwood of Canada Limited, Vancouver Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia.
b)	Test materialswill be supplied on requestto those operationsrequiringsame and will be returned immediatelyafter use.
c)	Useof thetestswill be monitored by Weldwood of Canada, Vancouver Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labourofthe Province cf British Columbia. Such monitoring will maintain a record of applicant's tests, successful applicant'sscores recorded, seniority applied, and provide a follow-up of the successful applicant's progressthroughouttraining and an appropriate posttraining period. Other information as deemed necessarybythe parties to this agreementwill be made available as agreed.
6.	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The successfulapplicant will be given a probationaryperiod up to ninety (90) calendar
days.
7.	SELECTION REVIEW
Where a dispute arises out of the selection of an apprentice,that cannot be resolved at
the plant level, the matter will be discussed by Managementand the Local Union.
Page 81
8.	TRIAL PERIOD
This agreement is for a twelve (12) month trial period, from the date of this agreement. Either party may terminate this agreement upon one (1) month'swritten notice after the completion of the eleventh month.
Page 82
SUPPLEMENT NO. 8
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A.	FLEXIBILITY OF HOURS OF WORK
The Parties recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined i n the Hours of Work Article, for the express purpose of better utilization of manpower and capital such as:
Balancing of production Maintenance Market requirements Evenflow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuousscheduling(eg. Logging, Engineers,
Firemen, Maintenance,Watchmen)
B.	SHIFT SCHEDULING
The partiesagree that the following shift schedules will providethe flexibility required to meet the needs expressed above.
1.	Logging
i)	compressed schedules consisting of ten (10) hours per day, four (4) days per week;
ii)	non-continuousschedulessuch asten (10) days on, four (4)days off;
2.	Manufacturing
i)	two (2) crews working four (4) days, ten (10) hours per shift;
ii)	uptothree (3) crewsworking Monday to Saturday, ten (10) hours a shift not exceeding forty (40) hours per week;
iii)	employeesworking incontinuousoperationsmaybescheduledto work shifts otherthan (i) or (ii) above.
3.	Maintenance
j)	shifts of upto 10 hours per day, 40 hours per week, Mondayto Sunday inclusive;
ii) three shifts per week, not exceeding 12 hours per day
4.	Other Shifts
It is understoodthe parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
C.	IMPLEMENTATION
Any variation(s) to the Hoursof Work Article shall be implementedonly upon
completion of the following steps:
1.	The Company and the Local Union will meet to discuss proposed shift schedules within the terms of the Hours of Work Article. It is anticipated that the Local Union will make sincere attempts to assist the Company wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The parties must mutually agree on resolution of issues such as:
i)	Details of shift
jj) Details of Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave, and Jury Duty.
iii)	Maximum length of shifts for physicallydemandingwork Accident prevention is a factor to betaken into account in determining shift lengths.
iv)	The lossofhours/employment asa direct resultofthe implementationof alternate shift schedules.
v)	The use of employeesfor supplementary productionwork
2.	The Camp or Plant Committee and the crew will be activelyconsulted by the Partiesduringthe process.
D.	GENERAL PRINCIPLES
When an alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of the Collective Agreement will be administeredon the principlethat an employee will not lose or
Page 84
gain any benefits over his normalfive-day schedule.
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intention is to increase the use of casual employees in place of regular employees.
2.	Different parts of an operation may be scheduled on different shifts.
3.	The principleof the forty (40) hourweek is to be maintained over an averaging period.
4.	This Article shall not change existing alternate shift agreements, unless agreed to by both parties.
5.	Earned vacationswill be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked under the alternateshift schedule.
6.	Other Articles of the Collective Agreement which provide benefits after eight (8) hours are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
7.	An employee's rest days may vary from week to week under an alternate shift schedule. Employees shall not be paid premium pay for changes in their rest days in these circumstances.
8.	An employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shall receive rate and one-half for work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest day results from the application of seniority or has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
9.	There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are changed because of the implementation of an alternate shift schedule.
Page 85
SUPPLEMENT NO. 9
November 4, 1994
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING New and Evolving Work
Preamble
Weldwood of Canada Limited and IWA-Canada agree to a processwhich seeks to balance the economic concernsof the member companieswith the needs of their employees to have access to New and Evolving Work within the Northern Interior Forest Industry.
This process is intended to deal with:
1.	employment for regular Company employeeswho are displaced by reductions in Annual Allowable Cuts or other land use decisions.
2.	additional opportunities for bargainingunit employment in new work that may be created in the forest industry.
3.	replacement bargaining unit employment in new or evolved work which may develop in future.
Process
1.	This Letter established a process for the Company and the Local Union to discuss opportunitiesfor having company employees perform new and evolving work within the forest industry in:
■	Value Added
« Remanufacturing
■	Opportunities created through B.C. Forest Renewal funding.
2.	Companies and Local Unions are committedto working together towards making new work opportunities available to company employees. It is understoodto accomplish these goals the parties must achieve:
■	efficiency and cost effectivenesson a fair and reasonable basis
■	quality objectives
■	safety objectives
3.	The Parties recognize that they cannot reasonablyanticipate all circumstancesand situationswhich may arise so cannot prescribe comprehensive solutions in advance.
Page 86
4.	The Parties agree that early joint preparation is an importantcontributorto the successful implementationand administration of the New and Evolving Work Letter. To this end, the respective negotiation committeeswill be jointly availableto clarify this agreement, and to assist parties on a case by case basis.
5.	Issues must be resolved in atimely fashion
6.	This Letterwill expire on June 30,2000, unless specifically renewed by both parties.
Dispute Resolution Process:
In order to assist member companies and Local Unions in resolving disputeswhich may arise as a result of this letter, Weldwood of Canada Limited and I.W.A.-Canada agree to:
a)	Establisha joint Dispute Resolution Committee comprised of three (3) representativesfrom management and three (3) representativesfrom the Union to fact find and assist the company and Local Union in reachinga solution.
b)	Managementorthe Local Unioncan requestthe assistanceofthe Dispute Resolution Committee.
c)	The DisputeResolutionCommittee may utilize the services of facilitators, mediators, or whatever means in orderto reach a final recommended resolution.
The parties agree to:
a)	Activate the Task Force providedfor in Letters of Understanding by June 30, 1998.
b)	In the event there are unresolved issues related to the implementationof the N.E.W. process,the Company or Local Union concerned will seekthe assistanceof the Dispute Resolution Committee in resolvingthe issues.
c)	Appendix No. 9 containsthe agreed-upon general principlesand parameters concerning New and Evolving Work, including Dispute Resolution and Task Force.
Page 87
Agreed to on behalf:
I.W.A.-CANADA	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Date:
Date: ,
Page 88
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Task Force
Weldwood c£ Canada Limited and IWA-CANADA have agreedto a Task Force, comprised of three (3) representativesfrom management and three (3) representatives of the Union, with co-chairmanfrom each party. The Task Force will examine the changes and trends in the Forest Industry.
The terms of reference for the Task Force will be as follows, but may include other matter the partieswish to explore.
1.	To examinethe change(s) taking place within the Industryandthe impact on Union/Management relations.
2.	To identify any procedure, policy, agreement,work schedules, method, working environment, people utilization, and Company practicewhich contributesto efficient, safe production performancewhile expandingthe currentworkforce.
3.	To identify what changes are appropriate to improve the overall Industry's ability to harvest and manufacture the timber in a safe, economical manner.
4.	To identify opportunitiesfor employeesto learn new skills and to train Companyemployeesto operatethe equipmentand performthe otherjobs associated with the evolving jobs within theB.C. Forest Industry.
5.	The Task Force will submit reports with recommendationsto the Union and ManagementNegotiatingCommittee on a regular basis on measuresthat will address the changes needed within the Forest Industry.
6.	This Letter will expire on June 30, 2000, unless specifically renewed by both parties.
Agreed to on behalf:
IWA-CANADA	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Date:
Date:
Page89
November 4,1994
Weldwood of Canada Limited P.O. Box 2179 Vancouver, BC V6B 3V8
Attention: Gordon Gray Dear Sir:
Re: Agreement on New and Evolving Work
This letter is intendedto clarify IWA-Canada's intentwith regard to the terms and conditionsof the Letter of Understanding in 1994 negotiationson New and Evolving Work.
During discussionson this, the Industry raised concerns that we answer as follows:
1.	It is not the intentions of IWA-Canada to use this agreementto replace existing loggingcontractorswith IWA membersor crews.
2.	It is IWA-Canada's desireto have opportunitiesto discusswith employers the possibility of either using IWA company crews, or IWA contractors, to perform work under Forest Renewal, but it is not our intent to cause companiesto purchase equipmentwithout having the costs of such equipment considered as partofthe dficiency and cost effectiveness that IWA agrees to address underthe New and Evolving Work agreement.
3.	It is IWA-Canada's intentiona that discussion concerning new operations underthe agreement may lead to voluntary recognition and certification - it is notour intention to achieve certificationfirst and enter into discussions later unless certificationoccurs as a direct result on an IWA organizing drive.
As stated earlier, this letter is to clarify our intentionsconcerning our agreement. It is not intendedto form part of the agreement, as is not arbitrable by either party.
Sincerely,
Harvey Arcand 4th Vice President IWA-Canada
HA/jg
ATTACHMENT: RE: ARTICLE IX
PAYMENT OF STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
As a esult of 19/ 7 negotiations between Babine I orest Products Limited, and Houston tP luttsO ithelW\l 11-424 an fl	thast	;h«d which
will change the present method of payment to employees as follows:
EXAMPLE:
If an employee who regularly receives overtime pay as partofhis/her normal daily earnings for his/her regularwork schedule, this would be includedfor purposesof payment of Statutory Holiday pay.
An equipmentoperatorwhose regular hourly rateof pay is $7.98, and who regularly works one-half (1/2) hour overtime per day would receive:
8 hours at $7.98	= $63.84
30 minutes at 11/2 = $5.98 Total	=$69.82
It is understoodthe new method of paymentwill apply to the Personal Floating Holiday when it becomes effective in 1978.
It is further understoodthat Shift Differentialand Travel Time payment is not included in the new method of paying Statutory Holidays and Personal Floating Holiday.