LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
I N D E X
ABSENTEEISM........................................................ 17
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES............................................ 8
APPENDIX "A" (Long Term Disability Plan)........................... 40
APPENDIX "B" (Work Schedules)...................................... 44
APPENDIX "C" (Line of Progression)................................. 45
APPENDIX "D" (Woodyard - Workforce Flexibility).................... 46
APPENDIX “E” (12-Hour Shift Schedule, 5-Day Operation)............. 47
APPENDIX “F” (12-Hour Shift Schedule, 7-Day Operation)............. 50
APPENDIX “G” (6-Day Work Schedule)................................. 53
APPENDIX “H” (Flex Shift, Plywood Department)...................... 54
APPENDIX “I” (Yard)................................................ 57
APPENDIX “J” (Shipping Department Flexibility...................... 58
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.................................................. 23
BULLETIN BOARDS.................................................... 17
CONTRACTING......................................................... 3
EDUCATION, TRAINING................................................ 18
EMPLOYEE DEFINITIONS................................................ 7
FLOATING HOLIDAYS................................................... 7
HOURS OF WORK...................................................... 10
GROUP INSURANCE PLANS:
Dental Care Plan................................................ 21
Group Life Insurance............................................ 20
Health Care Plan................................................ 18
Medical Reports................................................. 20
Vision Care..................................................... 21
Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability..................... 18, 19
JURY DUTY.......................................................... 24
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS................................................... 3
PENSION PLAN....................................................... 22
PURPOSE............................................................. 2
RECOGNITION......................................................... 2
SAFETY and WORKING CONDITIONS...................................... 24
SENIORITY.......................................................... 13
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS WITH PAY......................................... 6
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT (Waferweld Department)..................... 39
TERM OF AGREEMENT................................................... 3
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAM........................................... 31
TRADE JOB DESCRIPTIONS............................................. 33
UNION MEMBERSHIP.................................................... 4
VACATION WITH PAY................................................... 5
WAGE SCHEDULE.............................................. 3, 27, 28, 30
00996 (08)
1
A G R E E M E N T
Between
LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
Of the First Part - and -
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 1- 2693
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
Of the Second Part
Article I - Purpose
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions and to insure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, environment, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output, and for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as the duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to co-operate fully, individually, and collectively for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
The use of masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine. Article II - Recognition
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent of all employees engaged in the plants and yard and worksite of the Company's operations at Longlac, save and except foremen, team leaders, those above the rank of foremen, team leaders, quality control personnel, scalers and office staff.
2.02	Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors whose employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involves physical danger to employees or danger to property.
2
Article III - Management Rights
3.01	The Union agrees and acknowledges that the Company has the exclusive right and
power to manage the business and direct the workforce in all aspects, provided that the Company agrees that any exercise of these rights and powers shall be subject to the express provision of this agreement.
Article IV - Contracting
4.01	The Employees of contractors engaged by the Company in the plants and yard of the Company shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement; save and except the employees of contractors and/or the contractor who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such contractor is bound by an agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work.
4.02	It is understood that "occasional special services” includes the engaging of special equipment with or without an operator, the engaging of a local contractor on construction, renovation or overload to perform a service of a temporary nature.
Article V - Term of Agreement
5.01	The present agreement shall be in force from June 1,2007 to May 31,2013.
5.02	Either party to this agreement desiring its renewal with or without changes, shall give to the other party a written notice of its intention, between the thirtieth (30) and the ninetieth (90) day preceding the expiry date of the present agreement.
5.03	The Company shall reimburse lost wages for those employees on the negotiating committee for the time spent while negotiating up to and including conciliation.
Article VI - Wage Schedule
6.01	The Wage Schedule A is attached hereto and forms a part of this Agreement.
New -	Upon hiring a new employee, the new employee will receive two dollars ($2.00) per
hour less for the first twelve months from the date of hire for the wage classification of the job being performed. For the second twelve months from date of hire the new employee will receive one dollar ($1.00) per hour less for the wage classification of the job being performed.
Upon completion of twenty-four (24) months from the date of hire he/she will then receive 100% of the wage classification of the job being performed.
The above new hiring salary scale will not apply to trades classifications.
3
6.02	For classified jobs not listed in the wage schedule, the Company may set estimated or temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the attached wage schedule. The Company, where possible, will give the Union at least thirty (30) days' advance notice in writing prior to the commencement of the job classification. After a trial period of three (3) months (or any longer period as may be mutually agreed to) any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the local Union and upon agreement shall become a part of the wage schedule and payment made retroactive and after the three (3) month trial period and following negotiations for such rates with the local Union and if no agreement is reached on the rate, the matter shall become subject to the grievance procedure, commencing under the provisions of Section 12.03.
6.03	If, during the life of this Agreement, a significant change in job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached wage schedule, the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement, the matter shall become subject to the Grievance Procedure, commencing under the provisions of Section 12.03.
Article VII - Union Membership
7.01	All present employees who are members of the Union and those who become members of the Union shall maintain such membership in good standings as a condition of continued employment.
7.02	(a) The Company shall put employees on the check-off at the time of hire or return to work and deduct the Union's monthly membership dues from monies due them.
7.02	(b) All new employees shall become members of the Union within thirty (30) days from the date they start to work for the Company. The Company shall advise the Union Steward of any new employee hired, at the time of hire and will inform the new employee that Union membership requirement is a condition of employment. Failure of an employee to become a member within the time set out here shall become cause for immediate termination of employment. A weekly list of hires and terminations will be given to the Union Steward.
7.02	(c) Each new employee shall be allowed one-half (1/2) hour each on company time to meet with the Union Stewards during the induction process.
7.03	If an individual employee, who is a member of the Union and/or obtains membership, so desires, the Company agrees that it will, on his behalf and upon his written request, deduct Union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues from monies due such employee.
7.04	Remittances of all deductions shall be sent to the Local Union, said remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists, in alphabetical order, in triplicate, showing payroll numbers, full names and amounts. The Company shall deliver the above not later than the end of the following month. The Company will supply the Union Steward a copy of the "Remittance Form”.
7.05	The Local Union shall furnish the Company with a list of the local officers and representatives and shall amend these lists as changes occur.
4
7.06	Representatives of the Union, carrying a certificate of authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Union, shall have the right to visit the plant in connection with Union business. Prior to his visit, Union representatives shall report to the plant office to request permission for his visit and to allow the Company to appoint a representative to accompany him during his visit. The Union representative shall conduct himself in a manner which will not interfere with the normal operation of the plant during his visit.
7.07	When hiring employees the Company will, after complying with Article XV of this Agreement, give preference to Union members in the immediate area who apply and are capable of doing the work required of them.
7.08	The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel attached to its Longlac plant, to the Union office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended lists will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company Team Leaders.
Article VIII - Vacation With Pay
8.01	Every employee shall receive vacation credits on the following basis:
a)	Up to four (4) years	service time - 4% of his gross annual pay;
b)	More than four (4)	years, up to eleven (11) years service time	- 6% of his gross
annual pay;
c)	More than eleven (11) years, up to eighteen (18) years service time - 8% of his gross annual pay;
d)	More than eighteen	(18) years service time - 10% of gross annual	pay;
e)	More than thirty (30) years service time - 12% of his gross annual	pay.
8.02	An employee who has been continuously employed for one (1) year shall take vacation time off at a time that is satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor.
8.03	Each 2% increment of vacation pay credit shall entitle an employee to one (1) week time off.
8.04	Vacation pay shall be paid to each employee by separate cheques to be issued at the time of termination of employment or, at the employee's option when there is a lay-off of more than one (1) week or, when vacation is taken. Annual vacation pay will be paid by December 15th of each year.
Article IX - Statutory Holidays with Pay
9.01	Employees shall be paid without the performance of work for the following holidays
at their regular rate of pay:
New Year's Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
5
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Dominion Day	Boxing Day
Civic Holiday - one per annum
Employees who by nature of their jobs, shift engineers and clean-up (watchmen), are required to work on a holiday, they shall be permitted to take a day off from their scheduled work week, if requested by the employee, in lieu of the holiday. To elect this provision an employee must apply at the time of the worked holiday. An employee must elect to be paid for the worked holiday or the scheduled day in lieu of the Holiday.
Those employees not scheduled to work on the statutory holiday have the option upon giving 7 days notice, prior to the holiday to defer the holiday to be taken at a later date mutually agreed upon. The employee will be paid for the day on the date it is taken.
An employee who was scheduled to work on the day of the statutory holiday will be paid for the same number of hours as his normal schedule. Employees not scheduled to work will receive eight (8) hours pay for the holiday. No employee will lose or gain as a result of the above
Effective June 1st 2006: Employees will be paid statutory holidays as per their work schedule. Example: (8 hour schedule 8 hour stat., 10 hour schedule 10 hour stat., 12 hour schedule 12 hour stat.,)
9.02	When the holiday occurs on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday and if the holiday occurs on a Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday, unless changed by mutual agreement.
9.03	An employee who has established his seniority in accordance with Article XI, and who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) day period prior to the holidays, and who works the last scheduled shift prior to the holidays, and the first scheduled shift following the holidays, unless his return to work is prevented by circumstances beyond his control, shall receive pay for the holidays.
If an employee is recalled and works his first scheduled shift during a twenty-one (21) calendar day period immediately following the holiday(s) he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday(s).
9.04	Holidays occurring during the course of an allowed vacation period shall not be included as
part of the allowance.
Article X - Floating Holidays
10.01	Employees who have established their seniority in accordance with Article XI will be
granted three (3) floating holidays per year, to be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and management. Floating holidays not taken or arranged prior to October 1st in each year will be scheduled.
Effective June 1st 2006: one additional floating holiday.
6
An employee who, by reason of lay-off of employment, is prevented from taking his floating holidays shall be paid for the holidays.
10.02	Request for floaters are to be submitted, in writing, ten (10 ) working days in advance of the floater, with the exception of emergency situations. Management will confirm within four (4) days of receiving the request. A copy shall be given to the Union Steward.
10.03	Effective June 1st 2006. Employees will be paid floaters as per their work schedule. (8 hour schedule 8 hour floater, 10 hour schedule 10 hour floater, 12 hour schedule 12 hour floater.) Floaters to be allocated as per Article 10.01
Article XI - Employee Definitions
11.01	There are four (4) categories of employees:
a)	Regular employees
b)	Employees on probation
c)	Relief employees
d)	Students
11.02	A regular employee means an employee that has completed a probationary period of sixty (60) worked days on a regular position if he was newly hired or in the case of a relief worker, upon being confirmed in a regular job in a department or upon being selected and confirmed in a regular job following a posting.
11.03	An employee on probation means a newly hired employee or promoted from the relief pool to a regular position in a department. Newly hired employees on probation have no seniority rights until they completed sixty (60) worked days. Relief employees promoted or transferred to a regular position have a probation period of twenty (20) worked days before being confirmed as a regular employee.
11.04	A relief employee means an employee who works in the relief pool and who has completed his probation period of sixty (60) worked days. Such employee holds no regular position and has no predetermined work schedule or guaranteed working hours. Such employee accrues mill seniority only and is assigned work in any department.
Effective January 1st 2004 Hours worked by pool employees shall not exceed 84 hours per pay period.
11.05	Student means a temporary employee enrolled in a school or University and who
works as a temporary employee.
Students do not participate to the group insurance plans or Company pension plan. Students shall pay working dues to the union, have no seniority rights and have no recourse to the grievance procedure with exception of wage related matters.
Note: Students will be paid at seventy-five (75%) of base rate regardless of the job
performed.
7
Article XII - Adjustment of Grievances
12.01	All disputes, between employees and Company, shall be settled by the following procedures and there shall be no stoppage of work because of the differences.
12.02	The Union shall arrange for the election or temporary appointment, from its working membership therein, of a Union Committee of three (3) headed by a Union Steward. The Company shall be notified, in writing, as to the names of the Union Committee.
12.03	Any grievance arising during the term of this Agreement must be presented for adjustment not later than thirty (30) days after the grievance occurred. A grievance of an employee shall be taken by the employee singly or together with the Steward and/or Union representative, directly to the employee's immediate Team Leader and a decision thereon shall be rendered within forty-eight (48) hours from the presentation of the grievance. Any grievance arising during the term of this Agreement must be presented for adjustment prior to the termination of this Agreement.
12.04	If this decision is not satisfactory to the aggrieved employee, the grievance shall be made in writing and signed by the aggrieved employee and/or a Steward and shall be presented to the Plant Superintendent by the Union Steward and/or Union representative within seven (7) working days from the date of the decision under paragraph 12.03 above. A decision shall be rendered within ninety-six (96) hours from the presentation of the grievance.
12.05	If this decision is not satisfactory to the aggrieved employee, the grievance shall be presented to the Plant Manager by the Union representative within seven (7) working days from the date of the decision under paragraph 12.04 above, and shall be dealt with at a meeting of the Union Committee, headed by a Union representative, and Management and such decision shall be rendered within seven (7) days or within such further time as may be mutually agreed upon.
12.06	In the event that the grievance is not settled in the above manner it shall be referred to arbitration and notice of processing the arbitration shall be made on the opposite party within thirty (30) days of the decision rendered under paragraph 12.05 above.
12.07	The Company and the Union shall select an arbitrator. The arbitrator’s decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. If the parties fail to agree upon the naming of an arbitrator within a period of thirty (30) days after the reception of the notice of arbitration, either party can request the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint an arbitrator.
12.08	It is understood that the function of the arbitrator shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and it shall deal only with the specific question as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the arbitrator shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 6.03 and rates for job classifications under Section 6.05 and to revise the rates therefore. The arbitrator shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
12.09	The parties shall pay equally the fees and expenses of the arbitrator.
8
12.10	A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement must be dealt with in writing by both parties and must be presented to the Company no later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. The grievance shall be processed starting at Stage 2 of the grievance procedure as per Section 12.04. In case of discharge or suspension by the Company, the Company will immediately notify the employee of the reason for the discharge or suspension and will confirm, in writing, within twelve (12) hours, the reason for the discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In the event that an employee is found by an arbitrator to have been unfairly discharged or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his job under terms and conditions decided by the arbitrator.
12.11	Grievances which involve a Company-wide interpretation, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement shall be made in writing and delivered to the opposite party within ten (10) days of the occurrence on which the grievance is based and shall be dealt with by representatives of the Company and representatives of the Union. If the matter is not settled within thirty (30) days of notice being received by the opposite party, it shall forthwith be referred to arbitration.
12.12	Sundays and statutory holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this article of Agreement.
12.13	The record of any disciplinary action for offences shall not be used against an employee after twenty-four (24) months has elapsed since the date of disciplinary action and provided no similar offence has occurred during the twenty-four (24) month period.
Article XIII - No Strike, No Lockout
13.01	There shall be no strikes called or supported by the Union or its members and no
lockout caused by the Company during the life of this Agreement or any renewal thereof.
Article XIV - Hours of Work
14.01	The normal work week shall consist of thirty-six (36), forty (40), forty-two (42), or forty-eight (48) hours depending on a regular employee’s schedule. This does not, however, guarantee a minimum number of hours of work.
14.02	The Company may operate the departments totally or in part on one, two or three shifts per day basis, up to a continuous basis of seven (7) days per week.
14.03	For purposes of this Agreement, the production shifts for regular employees shall commence at 11:00 p.m. Sunday and end on Saturday at 7:00 a.m.
The maintenance shifts shall commence at 11:00 p.m. Sunday and end on Saturday at 3:00 p.m. and shall consist of five (5) consecutive shifts.
14.04	The following shift schedule is to be enforced unless altered by agreement of the parties:
9
No.	1 Shift	- 11:00 p.m.	to	7:00 a.m.
No.	2 Shift	- 7:00 a.m.	to	3:00 p.m.
No.	3 Shift	- 3:00 p.m.	to	11:00 p.m
14.05	(a)Employees requested to work in excess of their scheduled shift shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all work performed before or after their scheduled hours of work with the following exceptions:
(1)When required to work a second shift within a twenty-four (24) hour period due to change of shift required by the normal scheduling of mill operations provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked and provided that the re-scheduling does not occur more than once a work week.
(b)	All time worked by regular employees (production) in excess of their scheduled shift and from 7:00 a.m. Saturday to 11:00 p.m. Sunday and on holidays, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate. All time worked on Sunday and holidays in excess of eight (8) hours shall be paid for at double times his regular rate.
All time worked by maintenance employees in excess of their scheduled shift and from 3:00 p.m. Saturday to 11:00 p.m. Sunday and on holidays, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate. All time worked on Sunday and holidays in excess of eight (8) hours shall be paid for at double times his regular rate.
Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours are paid at time and one-half.
Senior regular employees, in accordance with their seniority order, who normally perform the jobs to be performed on a Saturday (7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. Sunday) (maintenance 3:00 p.m. Saturday to 11:00 p.m. Sunday) and on holidays will be given first opportunity for required overtime. (The scheduling of overtime shall not interfere or be a part of the work week).
(c)	An employee, who is called out for emergency work after completing his day or shift, and at least one (1) hour before the starting of his scheduled day or shift, shall receive time and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours' pay at the straight time rate. When the call out for emergency work is within the one (1) hour period prior to the start of his scheduled day or shift, he shall be paid time and one-half for the actual time worked in that one (1) hour period. Where the employee continues to work into his scheduled day or shift, the provisions of Article 14.05 (a) shall apply after he has completed eight (8) hours work exclusive of the time worked prior to his scheduled starting time.
(d)	In order to maintain efficiency during scheduled maintenance down days the Company will offer senior qualified employees on site first opportunity to complete outstanding maintenance work at the end of the shift, at the rate of time and one-half. If no employee excepts the opportunity the Company may require the trades employee that has started the scheduled maintenance or repair job to remain on the job until completion of the work or a maximum of 4 hours. All time worked after the completion of the regular hours shall be paid at the rate of double time.
14.06	When an employee reports for work on his scheduled shift and no work is available on his regular job and if he was not notified, at least two (2) hours prior to his scheduled starting time, at the telephone number he supplied to the Company, he shall be paid a minimum of four (4)
10
hours' pay if he does not work or works less than four (4) hours, and eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate if he works four (4) hours or more.
To qualify for the above, the employee must remain on the job until told by the team leader that he may leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered.
14.07	In addition to the regular rates for all hours worked, effective first pay period following ratification a shift differential will be paid as follows:
(a)	Forty-five cents ($0.45) per hour to employees working on the #3 shift (3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.).
Effective June 1st 2003 ($0.46)
June 1st 2004 ($0.47)
(b)	Fifty-seven cents ($0.57) per hour to employees working on the #1 shift (11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.).
Effective June 1st 2003 ($0.58)
June 1st 2004 ($0.59)
June 1st 2005 ($0.60)
14.08	During each period of three (3) or more consecutive hours of work, there shall be a break of ten (10) minutes. A break of twenty (20) minutes will be allowed not later than the end of the sixth consecutive hour for lunch. After three (3) hours of overtime consecutive to a regularly scheduled shift, the Company will allow a lunch period of twenty (20) minutes to an employee and provide a lunch, free of charge. Where an employee knows prior to reporting for work that he will be working overtime, he will be expected to provide his own lunch. The above lunch period is on Company time.
14.09	Continuous operation, Waferweld department and Plywood department.
(1)	Such employees will be excluded from the provisions of 14.03 and 14.05 (b) only and
the following shall apply:
(2)	All time worked in excess of his scheduled shift and on his scheduled day(s) off and his
regular scheduled shift on Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. All time worked on Sunday, in excess of eight (8) hours, shall be paid for at double times his regular rate.
(3)	All time worked on Sunday, which is not part of his regularly scheduled shift, and on
holidays, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one half. All time worked on Sunday and holidays, in excess of eight (8) hours, shall be paid for at double times his regular rate.
(4)	The shift schedule on said operations will remain a negotiable item. Employees working
on a seven (7) day continuous operating schedule will be assigned to the twelve (12) hour shift schedule.
(5)	Senior regular employees, in accordance with their seniority order, who normally
perform the work in the classification requiring the overtime, will be given the first opportunity for any scheduled overtime, except on regularly scheduled Sunday shifts.
11
(6)The scheduling of overtime shall not interfere or be a part of the work week.
14.10	A regular employee required to change shift without receiving a twenty-four (24) hour prior notice will receive time and one-half for his first shift.
Article XV - Seniority
15.01	(a)Employment of any new employee shall be considered as probationary until he has
worked sixty (60) days for the Company, after which his seniority shall date from his original hiring date.
(b)	No employee shall be discharged or disciplined without just cause. A lesser standard for discharging probationary employees may apply.
(c)	A union representative, may request for short term leave for Union business verbally from his or her supervisor.
(d)	An employee who is employed for a full-time basis by the Union shall retain his seniority for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months. It is agreed, however, that the twelve (12) month period shall be extended for a further twelve (12) month period if requested in writing by the employee affected.
(e)	Employment of any new trades employee shall be considered as probationary until he has worked ninety (90) days for the Company, after which his seniority shall date from his original hiring date. Employees shall receive the benefits when they have completed sixty (60) worked days.
15.02	Fundamentally, the rules of this Agreement respecting seniority rights, are designed
to give employees an equable measure of security based on their length of seniority with the Company.
15.03
seniority list if: (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
An employee shall lose all seniority rights and his name will be removed from the
He quits the Company or leaves for pension as stipulated in the Company Pension Plan regulations.
He is discharged and not reinstated.
He fails to report to work, within four (4) working days following a recall to work by the Company after being laid-off.
He is absent from work for more than a period of twenty-four (24) months, for any reason other than illness or injury, certified by a licensed physician.
Upon lay-off, he chooses to receive a severance allowance as per 15.16.
He is absent without permission for five (5) consecutive days unless such absence is for reasons beyond his control.
12
15.04	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority shall govern in promotions, transfers, layoffs and recalls after lay-offs, provided the employee has the necessary qualifications of knowledge, skill and ability to perform the work required.
15.05	(a)When a permanent vacancy occurs with respect to a job or for job training, immediate notice thereof will be posted on the bulletin board of the company for a period of four (4) days prior to any appointment to such job. An employee shall not be entitled to claim such a job unless he does so by written notice to the Human Resources Manager within the said period of four (4) days. Nothing herein shall preclude the Company from making a temporary appointment to such job. In doing so the Company will be governed by seniority and ability to do the job within the shift concerned where the vacancy occurs; however if the temporary vacancy lasts for more than four (4) months, it will be offered on the basis of seniority and ability within the department.
Any such vacancies will be posted as Replacement Postings. A returning employee covered by this posting will return to his/her posted position prior to leaving providing they are capable of performing the job. Any other affected employees would return to their previous positions.
(b) When any job posting for Tradespersons are required, the Company may post for a Licensed Trade person or employee currently certified as a Class I, II or III in an Apprenticeship program or College graduates of technical programs or equivalent experience. Prior to any such postings the Company agrees to meet with the Union and explain the requirements. Upon confirmation of the applicant the Company will then post for another apprentice based on seniority. These two positions shall be laid off in order of seniority not classification.
Note:	The Company shall post notices on the bulletin board showing the names of
successful applicants for all posted vacancies.
15.06	The senior applicant accepting the posted job shall be allowed five (5) work days in which to qualify (or further time as may be mutually agreed if additional training is required). Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his former job without loss of seniority or benefits. The senior applicant on the particular shift for which the training job has been posted, accepting the posted job for training, shall be given a reasonable period of training in which to qualify. Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his job without any loss of seniority or benefits.
15.07	An employee promoted or transferred to a position with the Company, outside the bargaining unit, shall continue to accrue seniority for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days and will retain the total accrued seniority for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months, from the date of promotion or transfer and shall have the right to the first vacant position in accordance with all the provisions of the articles dealing with seniority, upon proof of union membership in good standing.
15.08	(a)In lay-off, seniority shall come in force at the beginning of the work week following the lay-off.
(b) In case of lay-off due to breakdown, the employees affected will be paid in accordance with Article 14.06 or will be permitted to exercise their seniority rights to another job the same day and for the following day on their scheduled shifts, provided that the employee has the necessary knowledge, skill and ability to meet the requirements of the job without a probationary
13
period. Should the breakdown last more than the above-mentioned period (48 hours) the employees will be permitted to exercise their seniority rights for another job on any shift.
(c) In circumstances of lay-off of more than two (2) weeks duration the Company will notify in writing the employees affected and the Union Steward at least five (5) working days in advance.
15.09	(a)An employee who is laid off may request a transfer to a classification filled by an employee with less seniority provided that the employee has the necessary knowledge, skill and ability to meet the requirements of the job within a two (2) day probationary period or such other period as may mutually be agreed upon.
(b)	An employee, who exercises his seniority to bump, must return to his previous job in the event that there is a vacancy within twelve (12) months of the date he bumped.
(c)	On a layoff situation a regular employee may exercise his seniority into the relief pool on the understanding that he must return to his regular department when there is an opening and on the understanding that he will be committed to re-enter the relief pool in cases of subsequent layoff.
15.10	If an employee mentioned in 15.09 fails to meet the requirements of the job within this probationary period, he shall then be eligible for one further transfer to a job held by an employee with less seniority provided he can perform the work without a probationary period.
15.11	When an employee is transferred at the request of the Company to a lower paying job, the employee will be paid at the rate of the job from which he has been so transferred. Normally such transfers will be of short duration, up to two shifts.
15.12	For a transfer at the request of the employee, payment from the date of transfer will be made at the rate of the new occupation or classification.
15.13	For all other transfers, including but not limited to transfers due to inefficiency, inability, health, safety and demotions for causes, payment shall be made at the rate for the job to which the transfer is effected.
15.14	Seniority will be set up and maintained on a departmental basis. One department will be comprised of all employees at and out of the Plywood Plant. The other department will be comprised of all employees at and out of the Waferweld Plant.
(1)	Inter-department transfers will be allowed only in case there is a vacancy in one
department which must be filled by hiring. In such case, employees of the other department will be given preference over new hires.
(2)	An employee transferring from one department to the other, under the aforementioned
circumstances, will, for purposes of fringe benefits, retain all his seniority already accrued. For purposes of actual exercising of seniority, such said employee's seniority will begin accruing on the date his transfer becomes effective. An employee transferring in the manner described herein shall be allowed five (5) work days in which to qualify and failing to qualify or requesting to be returned within five (5) days shall be returned to his former job without loss of seniority or benefits.
14
(3)	An employee who fills a vacancy in another department while on lay-off, shall retain his
seniority in his previous department until he is recalled. Should such an employee fail to answer his recall he shall be considered as having transferred in accordance with No. 2 above.
(4)	When a trades employee is transferred on a voluntary basis from either department, at the request of the Company, on a temporary basis to meet production requirements, his seniority and benefits will not be affected.
15.15	Recalls
Employees who have been laid off shall be entitled, by order of mill seniority, to be re-employed for any occupation when there is a vacancy, provided they meet the requirements of the jobs and they are able of performing the work, and subject to the following:
The employee entitled to re-employment must return to the service of the Company within four (4) days notice of the date he is to return to work. Such notice to begin from the date he has been notified. Failure to report within the four(4) days of recall will result in loss of recall rights.
15.16	Severance
An employee with five (5) or more years of continuous service for whom no job is available upon being laid off for a period of ten (10) or more continuous weeks may elect to receive a severance allowance of one (1) week's pay for each year of employment during his last period of continuous service (up to the date of lay-off) computed on the basis of forty (40) hours at the employee's regular rate (maximum thirty (30) weeks). It is understood that an employee who chooses to receive his severance allowance will be terminated from his employment, losing all seniority rights, and recall rights.
It is also understood that in cases where employees are also eligible for severance pay as provided by the government legislation, they will receive the Government Legislated provision or the Company's severance pay provision, whichever is greater.
Article XVI - Absenteeism
16.01	Doctor’s certificate will not be required for employees who have been off duty for short-term illnesses of three (3) days or less. However, employees with poor attendance records may be required to provide a doctor’s certificate for all absences due to illness. Doctors certificates must be presented to the Human Resources Department before a "Return to Work Pass” will be issued. These passes must be presented to employee’s supervisor for his signature.
16.02	An employee who is unable to report for work for reasons beyond his control, must notify the Company at least one (1) hour prior to his scheduled starting time on day shift and two (2) hours on afternoon and night shifts. A notice outlining the process with phone numbers will be posted on the bulletin board periodically throughout the year.
Article XVII - Bulletin Boards
15
17.01	The Company will provide a bulletin board in a mutually satisfactory location in the plants for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activity. All such notices must be signed by the proper officers of the local Union and submitted to the Company for approval before being posted.
17.02	There shall be no other general distribution or posting by employees of pamphlets, advertising, or political matter, notices or any kind of literature, upon Company property other than as herein provided.
17.03	The Company will post the names of team leader and lead hands as changes occur.
Article XVIII - Education, Training
18.01	Time spent by an employee on a voluntary basis for designated company sponsored training during or after working hours will be compensated at the employee's regular rate of pay at straight time.
18.02	Education Fund - Upon ratification three (3) cents
June 1st 2004 four (4) cents
Article XIX - Group Insurance Plans
Subject to provisions of the master policy the following modifications will come into effect the first of the month following ratification of the labour agreement unless otherwise specified and will cover only those regular and relief employees actively at work on the effective date of these changes as well as all new regular and relief employees who will be hired by the Company thereafter.
New -	The Company will provide booklets describing the benefits package to each
employee within 6 months of ratification.
19.01	Health Care Plan
For each regular and relief employee, the Company will contribute fifty-two dollars ($52.00) per month for family and twenty-two dollars ($22.00) for individual coverage toward the cost of the Health Care Plan. Should the total cost of the plan exceed the Company premium, the employee will pay the difference through payroll deductions.
Effective January 1, 2000, the Company contribution will be increased to fifty-eight dollars ($58.00) per month for family and twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for individual coverage.
Effective January 1, 2001, the Company contribution will be increased to sixty-two dollars ($62.00) per month for family and twenty-seven dollars ($27.00) for individual coverage.
The Company contribution for employees receiving Workers’ Compensation or Short-Term Disability will be continued for a period up to twelve (12) months provided the employee continues to pay his portion of the cost, if any.
16
On lay-off, the employee will continue to be covered to the end of the month in which the employee is laid off.
19.02	- Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability
The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of the Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. The Plan will provide, for regular employees, seventy percent (70%) of regular weekly earnings, forty (40) hours times the employee's regular rate, up to a maximum of five hundred and sixty dollars ($560.00), to commence the first day in case of a non-compensable accident or hospitalization or after three (3) continuous days from the commencement of disability due to sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks.
The plan will provide, for relief employees, seventy percent (70%) of the average weekly earnings during the eight (8) weeks immediately prior to the onset of disability, up to a maximum of five hundred and sixty dollars ($560.00), to commence the first day in case of a noncompensable accident or hospitalization or after three (3) continuous days from the commencement of disability due to sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks.
A medically required prescheduled surgical procedure on an out-patient or day care surgery basis is considered like a hospitalisation (the three (3) day waiting period does not apply).
Effective the first day of the month following ratification, the maximum benefit is increased to five hundred and seventy dollars ($570.00) per week for any disability that commences on or after that date.
Effective June 1st 2003, the maximum benefit is increased to five hundred and eighty dollars ($580.00) per week for any disability that commences on or after that date.
Effective June 1st 2004 increase to five hundred and ninety ($590.00)
June 1st 2005 increase to six hundred ($600.00)
June 1st 2006 increase to six hundred and ten ($610.00)
If an employee covered by the Weekly Indemnity Plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with WSIB, Weekly Indemnity payment will be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one (1) month due to the disability without WSIB having accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity Plan. If the WSIB claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the Weekly Indemnity payment(s) received to the appropriate fund or insurance company.
19.03	Long Term Disability Coverage
The Company will maintain a Long Term Disability Plan providing for benefits of fifty-five per cent (55%) of monthly earnings up to a monthly maximum payment of nineteen hundred dollars ($1,900). The Company shall pay the cost of this Plan.
17
Effective June 1st 2003, the monthly maximum payment is increased to nineteen hundred and fifty dollars ($1,950) for any new disability claim occurring after that date.
Effective June 1st 2004 increase to two thousand dollars ($2000)
June 1st 2005 increase to two thousand and fifty dollars ($2050)
June 1st 2006 increase to twenty one hundred dollars ($2100)
The plan detail is outlined in Appendix "A” of this Agreement.
19.04	Medical Reports
All cost of medical reports, Doctors certificates and notes requested by the Company or the insurance carrier will be reimbursed to the employee.
19.05	Group Life Insurance
The Company will maintain a Group Life Insurance Plan for regular and relief
employees.
(1)	Basic Life Insurance and Basic Accidental Death and Dismemberment:
Amount of insurance:	$40,000
Date of ratification increase to	$45,000
Effective June 1st 2004 increase to $55,000 Effective June 1st 2006 increase to $65,000
Total premium to be paid by the Company.
(2)	Optional Life Insurance
Additional Life Insurance (including Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance) shall be available, in multiples of $10,000 from a minimum of $10,000 to a maximum of $50,000.
The Optional Life Insurance coverage shall cease on the first day of the month following or coinciding with the employee’s sixty-fifth (65th) birthday or upon retirement if earlier.
Optional Life Insurance coverage can only be modified by submitting the required proof of insurability to the insurer. Request for change in Optional Life Insurance can be made no more than once a year.
Optional Life Insurance will be in force only after proof of insurability has been approved by the insurance company.
19.06	Dental Care Plan
(1) Eligibility
Participation in the Plan is limited to regular and relief employees.
18
(2)	Administration
The plan is administered in accordance with the Master Policy.
(3)	Premiums
The premiums will be paid by the Company.
(4)	Integration
Benefits under the plan will not be payable when Federal or Provincial legislated benefits are currently being provided.
(5)	Plan Design
The Plan will provide for the payment of benefits based on the O.D.A. Schedule of Fees in force in the year prior to the year in which services are rendered.
The current maximum of thirteen hundred dollars ($1,300) per calendar year per person will be increased to fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500) per calendar year per person effective January 1, 2000.
The Plan will provide for orthodontics treatment for covered persons who are less than twenty-one (21) years old. Fees will be reimbursed at fifty percent (50%) up to a maximum lifetime reimbursement of twelve hundred and fifty dollars ($1250) per person.
19.07	Vision Care
Vision Care expenses incurred by the employee or his covered dependents will be reimbursed provided they are prescribed by a doctor or optometrist up to a total of one hundred and sixty dollars ($160.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) month period.
Effective June 1st 2003, benefits increase to one hundred and eighty dollars ($180.00) per 24 months.
Effective June 1st 2004, benefits increase to two hundred dollars ($200.00) per 24
months.
Vision Care expenses include frames, lenses, contact lenses, fitting of prescription glasses, eye exam.
19.08	General
Employees on lay-off will be entitled to retain their Life Insurance, Health Care and Dental Care for a maximum period of six (6) months by paying the entire premium.
The Company’s contribution to benefits for employees who are off work due to a workers compensation claim or short term disability claim will be continued for a period of up to twelve (12) months.
19
Employees on long-term disability will be entitled to retain their Life Insurance, Health Care and Dental Care by paying the entire premium.
For employees receiving Long Term Disability benefits for claims incurred on or after June 1st 1999, Group Life Insurance and Drug plan will be continued for a period of one year.
Effective June 1st 2004 employees will be covered by the following benefits while on Long Term Disability : Life Insurance and Drugs.
The Company shall contribute the monthly required contributions set out in Article XX to each members account each month, in which a member who has not attained age 65 is entitled to receive pay for time worked or is on:
(a)	Weekly Indemnity
(b)	The first twelve (12) months of benefits under the Workers Compensation Act (Ontario).
(c)	Vacation, Jury Duty, Bereavement Leave, Maternity Leave, Apprenticeship Leave or other leave authorized by the Company.
Article XX - Pension Plan
20.01	The Company Pension Plan in effect will be maintained. The Company will
contribute, during each month, seventy dollars ($70.00) to the account of each member of the plan who is on the company’s active payroll in the month. Regular and relief employees will join the plan after completing one (1) year of continuous service.
Effective the first of the month following ratification the Company contribution will be increased to seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per month.
Effective June 1st dollars ($80.00) per month.
Effective June 1st
June 1st June 1st
2003,	the Company contribution will be increased to eighty
2004,	increase to eighty-five dollars ($85.00)
2005,	increase to ninety-five dollars ($95.00)
2006,	increase to one hundred and ten ($110.00)
Any member may elect to make a voluntary contribution by payroll deduction at the rate of seventy dollars ($70.00) per month (current), seventy-five dollars ($75.00) as of first of the month following ratification and increases as of each June 1st, as outlined above. The Company will match voluntary contributions made by the employees.
General
Contributions made to the Plan will be deposited with a trustee to the credit of individual accounts under the Plan. The Company will pay the cost of establishing the account of each employee and the ongoing cost of administering and investment will be deducted from each account.
Commencing in year 2000, the Company and the Union will meet annually to review the performance of the Pension Plan.
20
Bridging Supplement (effective first of the month following ratification):
The Company agrees to provide an early retirement payment to employees who retire prior to attainment of age sixty-five (65). This opportunity will apply only to employees who reach sixty (60) years of age and have worked more than twenty (20) years for the Company.
Employees making this choice will receive fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month per year of service. The above will continue until attainment of age sixty-five (65) or the death of the retiree, whichever occurs first. (Example: 30 years service x $15.00 = $450 per month).
20.02	Supplemental Long Service Award
Employees who have worked more than 20 years for the Company shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
Age 60	one	(1) week	(2% of gross earnings)
Age 61	two	(2) weeks	(4% of gross earnings)
Age 62	three	(3) weeks	(6% of gross earnings)
Age 63	four	(4) weeks	(8% of gross earnings)
Age 64 five (5) weeks (10% of gross earnings)
Article XXI - Bereavement Leave
21.01	When death occurs to an employee's spouse, children, father or mother, the
employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular, straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of five (5) consecutive days.
When death occurs to other members of an employee's immediate family, that is, an employee's mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, spouses grandparents, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or grandchild the maximum time lost paid for will be for three (3) consecutive days. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. The day of the funeral must be one of the five (5) or three (3) days. Pay will be granted for the regular scheduled work days lost during this period.
Any claims for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee's immediate family.
Article XXII - Jury Duty
22.01	In the case of an employee who is called for jury service, and an employee who is
subpoenaed as a witness in a legal proceeding, the Company shall pay, for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours' pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate, and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore when making his claim for such allowance.
The employee will not be entitled to such payment in a case where he is a witness in a legal proceeding in which he is implicated or in a legal proceeding in which the union or one of its members is implicated.
21
Article XXIII - Safety and Working Conditions
23.01	It is agreed that the Company and the Union will co-operate collectively in improving
safety and first-aid practices. The Company and the Union further agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee to promote safe working conditions and practices. The Company will endeavour to have a qualified first-aid man on each shift.
A complete safety inspection shall be carried out at regular intervals, at least once a month, by a minimum of two (2) members of the Joint Safety Committee (one from the Union and one from Management). Time spent by employees on such safety activities shall be considered as time worked. Such inspections will not interfere with normal mill operation and production.
23.02	(1) Hard hats to be supplied on loan with no charge made by the Company if hard hat
is returned.
(2)	Company to supply, at no cost to the employee, gloves. Worn out gloves must be returned before a new pair is issued, otherwise the employee will be charged for that pair.
(3)	Company to make available suitable aprons for the use of the core layer and outfeed end of the dryers.
(4)	Company to make available to maintenance personnel using welding machines, welding shields, gloves, leather aprons and coats.
(5)	Company to provide eye protection glasses, free of charge, but not prescription glasses. Scratched or broken eye protection glasses must be returned before a new pair is issued, otherwise the employee will be charged for the pair.
Effective the date of ratification, upon presentation of a receipt, the Company will pay a maximum yearly allowance of one hundred and ten dollars ($110.00) to assist in the purchase of prescription safety glasses.
Effective June	1st 2004 increase to	one	hundred and twenty dollars	($120)
June	1st 2005 increase to	one	hundred and thirty dollars	($130)
June	1st 2006 increase to	one	hundred and forty dollars	($140)
(6)	Company to make available rain wear for the occasional use of maintenance personnel.
(7)	The Company will provide a coverall service to include weekly cleaning and repair for those maintenance employees, glue mixers, blender operators and glue cleaner.
(8)	The Company will provide one (1) pair per year of chain saw safety pants to the regular incumbents of classification loghandler in the Plywood department.
(9)	The Company agrees to annually reimburse regular and relief employees with one (1) year or more seniority one hundred percent (100%) of cost of safety boots to a
22
maximum of one hundred dollars ($100) per year. Payment will be made upon presentation of boot purchase receipt.
Effective June 1st 2003 increase maximum to one hundred and five dollars ($105) June 1st 2004 increase to one hundred and ten dollars ($110)
June 1st 2005 increase to one hundred and fifteen dollars ($115)
June 1st 2006 increase to one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125)
23.03	Adequate lunch room and toilet facilities shall be provided and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times. Screen doors to be provided in the lunch room during the summer period.
23.04	The Company will supply adequate protective equipment apparel for employees fighting
fire.
23.05	Employees shall be paid every second Thursday, by the end of the day shift. Direct
deposit pay stubs to be put in individual envelopes.
Dated at
, this
day of
2008.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION BY ITS REPRESENTATIVES
Joe Hanlon Bert Poulin Ross Taylor Jean-Guy Serre Danny Lavoie
23
Roger Gagnon
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY BY ITS REPRESENTATIVES
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux
WAGE SCHEDULE - PLYWOOD DEPARTMENT
JOB CLASSIFICATION	RATE/HR	RATE/HR	RATE/HR	RATE/HR	RATE/HR	RATE/HR
	JUNE1/06	RATIFICATION	JUNE 1/10	JAN 1/11	JUNE 1/11	JUNE 1/12
		(-120)	(+1.20)	J2%)	(2%)	(2%)
Lead Worker	23.27	22.07	23.27	23.74	24.21	24.69
Carry Lift Operator	22.90	21.70	22.90	23.36	23.83	24.31
Debarker Operator	22.14	20.94	22.14	22.58	23.03	23.49
Log Handler	22.28	21.08	22.28	22.73	23.18	23.64
Log Core Handler	22.04	20.84	22.04	22.48	22.93	23.39
Chip Loader	21.97	20.77	21.97	22.41	22.86	23.32
Lathe Operator	23.11	21.91	23.11	23.57	24.02	24.52
Clipper Operator	22.22	21.02	22.22	22.66	23.11	23.57
24
Veneer Sorter	21.97	20.77
Veneer Grader	22.19	20.99
Veneer Welder	22.28	21.08
Gradeline	22.22	21.02
Dryer Operator	21.97	20.77
Patcher	21.97	20.77
Putty Line	21.97	20.77
Sheet Turner	22.09	20.89
Spreader Feeder	22.09	20.89
Lay Up	22.39	21.19
Glue Mixer	22.14	20.94
Press Operator	22.22	21.02
Press Helper	22.04	20.84
Trim Saw Operator	22.22	21.02
Sander Operator	22.22	21.02
Chipper Feeder	22.22	21.02
Clean Up Man	21.97	20.77
Clean Up/Watchman	22.09	20.89
Lift Truck Operator	22.38	21.18
Hand Grade Repair	22.22	21.02
Finish End Utility	21.97	20.77
Knife Grinder	22.98	21.78
Shipper	22.22	21.02
Utility/Relief	22.09	20.89
21.97	22.41	22.86	23.32
22.19	22.63	23.08	23.54
22.28	22.73	23.18	23.64
22.22	22.66	23.11	23.57
21.97	22.41	22.86	23.32
21.97	22.41	22.86	23.32
21.97	22.41	22.86	23.32
22.09	22.53	22.98	23.44
22.09	22.53	22.98	23.44
22.39	22.84	23.30	23.77
22.14	22.58	23.03	23.49
22.22	22.66	23.11	23.57
22.04	22.48	22.93	23.39
22.22	22.66	23.11	23.57
22.22	22.66	23.11	23.57
22.22	22.66	23.11	23.57
21.97	22.41	22.86	23.32
22.09	22.53	22.98	23.44
22.38	22.83	23.29	23.76
22.22	22.66	23.11	23.57
21.97	22.41	22.86	23.32
22.98	23.44	23.91	24.39
22.22	22.66	23.11	23.57
22.09	22.53	22.98	23.44
Chip Loader - Plywood:
It is understood the carry lift operator rate will apply to all hours worked on the shift. In addition to the chip loading duties other work can be assigned as required.
WAGE SCHEDULE - PLYWOOD/WAFERWELD DEPARTMENT
JOB CLASSIFICATION
Operator-Power Grader Operator-Truck Boom Loader Electrician Lead-Class "A" Electrician Lead-Class "1" Electrician - Class "A" Electrician - I Electrician - II Electrician - III Electrician - IV
RATE/HR	RATE/HR	RATE/HR
JUNE1/06	RATIFICATION	JUNE 1/1
	(-120)	(+1.20)
22.70	21.50	22.70
22.41	21.21	22.41
26.75	25.55	26.75
26.27	25.07	26.27
26.38	25.18	26.38
25.53	24.33	25.53
23.93	22.73	23.93
23.37	22.17	23.37
22.83	21.63	22.83
RATE/HR	RATE/HR	RATE/HR
JAN 1/11	JUNE 1/11	JUNE 1/12
(2%)	(2%)	(2%)
23.15	23.61	24.08
22.86	23.32	23.79
27.29	27.84	28.40
26.80	27.34	27.89
26.91	27.45	28.00
26.04	26.56	27.09
24.41	24.90	25.41
23.84	24.32	24.81
23.29	23.76	24.24
25
Electrician - Helper	22.58	21.38	22.58	23.03	23.49	23.96
Mechanic Lead-Class "A"	26.69	25.49	26.69	27.22	27.76	28.32
Mechanic Lead-Class "I"	26.21	25.01	26.21	26.73	27.26	27.81
Mechanic - Class "A"	26.32	25.12	26.32	26.85	27.39	27.94
Mechanic - I	25.46	24.26	25.46	25.97	26.49	27.02
Mechanic - II	23.89	22.69	23.89	25.97	26.49	27.02
Mechanic - III	23.23	22.03	23.23	23.69	24.16	24.64
Mechanic - IV	22.75	21.55	22.75	23.21	23.67	24.14
Mechanic - Helper	22.44	21.24	22.44	22.89	23.35	23.82
Millwright Lead-Class "A"	26.69	25.49	26.69	27.22	27.76	28.32
Millwright Lead-Class "I"	26.21	25.01	26.21	26.73	27.26	27.81
Millwright - Class "A"	26.32	25.12	26.32	26.85	27.39	27.94
Millwright - I	25.46	24.26	25.46	25.97	26.49	27.02
Millwright - II	23.89	22.69	23.89	25.97	26.49	27.02
Millwright - III	23.23	22.03	23.23	23.69	24.16	24.64
Millwright - IV	22.75	21.55	22.75	23.21	23.67	24.14
Millwright - Helper	22.44	21.24	22.44	22.89	23.35	23.82
Oiler	22.98	21.78	22.98	23.44	23.91	24.39
Carpenter "A"	26.16	24.96	26.16	26.68	27.21	27.75
Carpenter I	25.31	24.11	25.31	25.82	26.34	26.87
Carpenter II	23.73	22.53	23.73	24.20	24.68	25.17
Carpenter III	23.06	21.86	23.06	23.52	23.99	24.47
Carpenter IV	22.57	21.37	22.57	23.02	23.48	23.95
Carpenter - Helper	22.44	21.24	22.44	22.89	23.35	23.82
Boiler & Dryer Operator:						
(2nd Class Certificate)	27.74	26.54	27.74	28.29	28.86	29.44
(3rd Class Certificate)	27.14	25.94	27.14	27.68	28.23	28.79
(4th Class Certificate)	26.34	25.14	26.34	26.87	27.41	27.96
Fire Inspector & Maintainer Engineer (2nd Class Certificate)	22.42	21.22	22.42	22.87	23.33	23.80
Leadhand	28.70	27.50	28.70	29.27	29.86	30.46
Fire Inspector & Maintener:	Certificate rate plus additional $0.50.
Lead Worker and Lead Hand:
A senior person capable of performing the job he is leading.
A Lead Worker or Lead Hand has no authority to discipline or discharge other workers.
Wage Schedule Adjustment:
Millwright Class "A" with high pressure welding ticket, Electrician "A" with electronics option, Gas Fitter and Machinist, wage adjustment - fifty cents ($0.50). Effective January 1, 2000, increase to seventy-five cents ($0.75).
Students will be paid at the student rate of seventy-five (75%) of base rate regardless of the job performed. Landfill site manning will be allocated as status quo. (Sign up list for interested persons.)
26
WAGE SCHEDULE "A" - WAFERWELD DEPARTMENT Yard, Wood Preparation, Shipping, Quality Control
JOB CLASSIFICATION
Pondman
Debarker Operator
Slasher Operator
Boom Loader Operator
Wheeled Loader Operator
WheeledLoaderOperator(Carrylift)
Truck Driver - Tandem DZ
RATE/HR	RATE/HR	RATE/HR
JUNE1/06	RATIFICATION	JUNE 1/10
	(-120)	(+1.20)
21.97	20.77	21.97
22.46	21.26	22.46
22.83	21.63	22.83
22.70	21.50	22.70
22.90	21.70	22.90
22.90	21.70	22.90
22.41	21.21	22.41
RATE/HR	RATE/HR	RATE/HR
JAN 1/11	JUNE 1/11	JUNE 1/12
(2%)	(2%)	(2%)
22.41	22.86	23.32
22.91	23.37	23.84
23.32	23.79	24.27
23.15	23.61	24.08
23.36	23.83	24.31
23.36	23.83	24.31
22.86	23.32	23.79
27
Truck Driver - Trailer AZ Chipper Operator Clean Up Man Clean Up/Watchman Clean Up/Utility Clean Up/Utility (F&D)
Log Saw Operator Flaker Operator Utility Person Saw Filer Knife Grinder Lead Hand Shift Tester Lift Truck Operator Shipper
Sander Operator Board Preparation:
Clean Up Man Blender Operator Lift Truck Operator Grooving Line Trim Saw
Forming Line Operator Press Operator Lead Hand Utility/Relief
Lead Worker and Lead Hand:
22.61	21.41	22.61
22.28	21.08	22.28
21.97	20.77	21.97
22.09	20.89	22.09
22.08	20.88	22.08
22.22	21.02	22.22
22.29	21.09	22.29
22.22	21.02	22.22
22.42	21.22	22.42
22.98	21.78	22.98
22.98	21.78	22.98
23.65	22.45	23.65
22.41	21.21	22.41
22.22	21.02	22.22
22.22	21.02	22.22
22.76	21.56	22.76
21.97	20.77	21.97
22.14	20.94	22.14
22.22	21.02	22.22
22.29	21.09	22.29
22.41	21.21	22.41
22.96	21.76	22.96
23.27	22.07	23.27
23.65	22.45	23.65
22.22	21.02	22.22
23.06	23.52	23.99
22.73	23.18	23.64
22.41	22.86	23.32
22.53	22.98	23.44
22.52	22.97	23.43
22.66	23.11	23.57
22.74	23.19	23.65
22.66	23.11	23.57
22.87	23.33	23.80
23.44	23.91	24.39
23.44	23.91	24.39
24.12	24.60	25.09
22.86	23.32	23.79
22.66	23.11	23.57
22.66	23.11	23.57
23.22	23.68	24.15
22.41	22.86	23.32
22.58	23.03	23.49
22.66	23.11	23.57
22.74	23.19	23.65
22.86	23.32	23.79
23.42	23.89	24.37
23.74	24.21	24.69
24.12	24.60	25.09
22.66	23.11	23.57
A senior person capable of performing the job he is leading. A Lead Worker or Lead Hand has no authority to discipline or discharge other workers.
TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM
1.	Apprentice openings will be filled in accordance with the provisions of Section XV. Employees who meet the educational level specified by the Apprenticeship Act will qualify. Any vacancies shall be filled by employees of the bargaining unit.
2.	There will be a probationary period of up to forty (40) working days prior to entering into an apprenticeship agreement, during which time the employee may return, or failing to display the necessary mechanical aptitude, be returned to his former department without loss of seniority.
28
3.	Any helper who fails his first year exams shall be required to be re-examined within twelve (12) months but not earlier than six (6) months. Failure to pass the re-examination will result in the apprentice being dropped from the program and returned to his former department without loss of seniority. The above will not apply to the persons currently employed in any of the categories of Trades in the event that they shall become indentured in the future or are currently indentured.
4.	Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract, it is expected he will continue to fulfill the obligations of the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5.	The Company will make up the difference between the Canada Manpower Training Program Allowance and the employee's normal earnings, based on his regular straight time rate, multiplied by forty (40) hours per week.
For purposes of calculations the Canada Manpower at home allowance shall be used.
The Company will provide all necessary books which will remain the property of the Company upon completion of the term.
6.	Where a present Millwright or a person subsequently hired is rated as a Millwright "II" in his general proficiency, but has a recognized certificate of competency as a welder, mechanic or pipefitter, he will automatically be rated as a Millwright "I".
7.	A tradesman assigned to shift work will be paid one class higher than his classification up to level one (Example: Level 4 paid level 3 rate; level 3 paid level 2 rate; and level 2 paid level 1 rate).
8.	Providing a journeyman has completed the time in the trade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he may write for such Certificate and receive the "A" rate immediately following completion of his course of studies.
TOOLS
Tradesmen will furnish all hand tools common to the trade. This includes spanners up to and including 1 1/4” opening, adjustable wrenches up to 18" in length, sockets up to and including 1/2" drive and 1 1/4" opening, hammers, chisels, punches, and screw drivers.
The Company agrees to replace any personal tools broken in service, provided that such broken tools are returned to the Master Tradesman. The Company agrees to provide tools to tradesmen at cost. The Company will provide, on loan, any special tools, including power-driven tools, testing and measuring instruments and gauges, pullers, sockets over 1/2" drive, spanners over 1 1/4" opening, all metric tools and instruments.
Tool Allowance
29
The Company shall pay each trades person annually one hundred and seventy-five dollars ($175) based on the understanding tools shall be used for the benefit of the work performed for the Company, not personal use and any such claim shall have the prior approval of the Company.
The Company will provide free insurance against loss by fire and theft of tradesmen's tools, normally required by tradesmen, to the full replacement value of such tools, while at designated places on authorized Company property or worksites.
MAINTENANCE TRADES ANNUAL REVIEW
Annually, in the month of June, an evaluation committee consisting of the Plant Manager or his representative, and the Maintenance Team Leader in the respective plant, together with a qualified Union Member, a Union Representative, and a Union Business Representative will evaluate the performance and progress of each Helper and Tradesmen below the category of "A", with a view to upgrading personnel who qualify.
If upgrading is necessary in the interim, it will be done by the Plant Manager and the Maintenance Supervisor.
The committee of three (3) management and three (3) Union representatives will meet at least annually to review training needs of the maintenance personnel.
JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR TRADES AND HELPERS
1.	MILLWRIGHT (Trade)
Millwright Helper:
Works as a trades helper. Will be assigned to and take necessary direction from a Millwright "IN", "II", "I", or "A".
30
A helper must be capable of performing independently, wash jobs, greasing, and oiling, and must be in the process of accumulating a basic tool kit required for the work he is asked to perform.
Millwright IV:
Shall be qualified to assist and work under the direction and instruction of Millwright "III", "II", "I", or "A". He will work alone at times performing assignments in keeping with his training.
During the course of his year of training, must become proficient in good millwrighting practises in the areas of fitting, aligning, lubricating and the operation of all shop tools and machines. In addition to the foregoing, he will be exposed to and begin the process of learning techniques required in trouble shooting key production machinery, pipefitting, basic welding and machining, but will not be expected to display a high degree of proficiency in these areas at this point.
Millwright III:
Must be capable of performing the tasks of fitting, aligning, lubricating, and able to operate all shop tools and machines.
Must, under direction, become proficient in basic welding and pipefitting as well as dismantling and reassembly of plant equipment.
Under direction, will continue to develop skills in trouble shooting all plant equipment and improve his skill at machining parts and be exposed to basic principles of hydraulics and pneumatics.
He may work alone frequently, but occasionally will require direction and instruction from Millwright "II", "I", or "A".
Millwright II:
Must be capable, without direction, of fitting, aligning and lubricating, and taking apart and reassembling plant equipment. In addition, is expected to be able to weld, operate shop tools and do pipefitting as required.
Must, under direction, become proficient at effective methods of trouble shooting and repairing hydraulic, pneumatic and mechanical faults in plant machinery.
Millwright I:
Must be capable, without direction, of performing all practises under Millwright "II", "III" and "IV". Must, under direction, become proficient at reading and understanding blueprints, all phases of installing new equipment, laying out hydraulic and mechanical drives and meet speed and power requirements correctly.
31
Millwright A:
Must be capable, without direction, of performing all practises under Millwright "I", "II", "III" and "IV". Must take full responsibility for work done by himself or his assistant.
Must be in possession of a Millwright Certificate or a Machinist Certificate or Welder H.P. Certificate.
Millwright Lead:
Must possess the qualifications set out under Class "A" or Class "I", and in addition, shall be capable of leading other Millwrights.
2.	ELECTRICIAN (Trade)
Electrician Helper:
Required to enter into and continue in an apprenticeship program leading to the certified trade of maintenance electrician.
Will obtain practical experience at the plant level by working as an assistant to the Electrician as assigned.
Shall, under the direction and supervision of the Electrician and Supervisors, perform work common to the electrical trade on all types of machines and equipment used in the production of Plywood and/or Waferboard.
Electrician IV:
Will be enrolled in and have successfully passed exams following his first year of apprenticeship in the electrical trade.
Shall, under direction from the Electrician or Supervisors, obtain practical experience at the plant level allied up to the 2nd year theory taught at the Provincial school and will be expected to perform work common to the Electrical Trade on all types of machines and equipment used in the production of Plywood and/or Waferboard.
Electrician III:
Must have successfully completed the second year of apprenticeship in the Electrical Trade.
Under the direction of an Electrician "A", must be proficient in the installation and maintenance of all electrical equipment in the plant.
Will gain practical experience allied to the third year theory taught in the Provincial school.
32
Electrician II:
Must have successfully completed the third year of apprenticeship in the Electrical Trade.
Will continue to gain practical experience allied to subject material taught in the fourth year of apprenticeship and be responsible for all work performed by himself up to his present level of training.
Electrician I:
Will have successfully completed the full course for the trade of Maintenance Electrician and received a certificate of apprenticeship.
Electrician A:
Shall be in possession of a Provincial journeyman trade certificate and must be proficient in the installation and maintenance of all electrical equipment in the plant and assume responsibility for all work done by himself and his assistants.
Electrician Lead:
Must possess the qualifications set out under Class "A" or Class "I" and in addition, shall be capable of leading other Electricians.
NOTE:
Providing a journeyman has completed the time in the trade necessary to write for a Provincial trade certificate, he may write for such certificate and receive the "A" rate immediately following completion of his course of studies.
3.	MECHANIC (Trade)
Mechanic Helper:
Works as a trades helper, will be assigned to and take necessary direction from Mechanic "II”, “I”, “A”, or "Lead".
Must be capable of performing independently, wash job, oil changes, greasing and tire repairs.
Shall be up-graded prior to or at the end of one (1) year period to Mechanic "IV".
Mechanic IV:
Shall be qualified to assist and work under the direction and instructions of Mechanic "Lead", "A", "I", or "II". During the course of his year training, he will be exposed to and begin the process of learning techniques required in trouble shooting key production equipment, but will not be expected to display a high degree of proficiency at this point. A
33
Mechanic Class "IV" will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools. He will work alone at times performing assignments in keeping with his training.
Mechanic III:
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment and other equipment generally used in company operations.
Mechanic II:
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in company operations and will be required to direct assistants working under him.
Mechanic I:
Must be qualified to carry out the responsibilities of the trade as outlined by the Act. He must assume full responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
Mechanic A:
Must be in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate as recognized by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
Mechanic Lead:
A mechanic "Lead" must possess the qualifications set out under Mechanic "A" and in addition, shall be capable of leading other Mechanics.
4.	CARPENTER (Trade)
Carpenter Helper:
Works as a trades helper, will be assigned to and take necessary direction from Carpenter "II”, “I”, “A", or "Lead".
Carpenter IV:
Must have successfully completed an aptitude test, met educational requirements of the apprenticeship program and have been indentured.
Carpenter III:
Must have successfully completed the First Year Apprenticeship Program in that Trade.
Carpenter II:
34
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Apprenticeship Program in that Trade. Carpenter I:
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Apprenticeship Program and must be capable, under direction, of performing all plant carpentry assigned to him in an efficient manner.
Carpenter A:
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Dated at_______, this___day of__________, 2008
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
Joe Hanlon Jean-Guy Serre Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux
35
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT
between
LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
Of The First Part - and -
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 1- 2693
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union") Of The Second Part
Waferweld Department
Departments and line of progression in Board Preparation agreed to with the following understanding:
(a)	Permanent job vacancies in yard, wood preparation, shipping and quality control will be posted as they occur.
(b)	The cleanup job in Board Preparation will be posted as permanent vacancies occur.
(c)	When permanent vacancies in Board Preparation are not filled by progression, these vacancies will be posted.
Dated at__________, this_____day of______________, 2008.
FOR THE UNION
FORTHE COMPANY
Joe Hanlon Jean-Guy Serre Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux
36
APPENDIX " A "
LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of the Master Policy.
1.	Eligibility
All regular and relief employees as defined under Article XI of the Collective Agreement.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage
An eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Plan becomes effective.
An eligible employee, absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous, active, full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks. The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning from such lay-off to determine their eligibility under the Plan.
3.	Qualifying Period
An insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit after fifty-two (52) weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
4.	Definition of Disability
"Disability" shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable, because of disease or injury, to work at any occupation in the Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training, or experience.
5.	Amount of Benefit
37
(a)	The disability benefit shall be fifty- five per cent (55%) of monthly earnings as defined hereafter in 5 (b) up to a maximum monthly payment of nineteen hundred dollars ($1,900).
Effective June 1st 2003 increase to nineteen hundred and fifty ($1950)
June 1st 2004 increase to two thousand dollars ($2000)
June 1st 2005 increase to two thousand and fifty ($2050)
June 1st 2006 increase to twenty one hundred ($2100)
b)	"Monthly Earnings” means, in the case of a day or shift worker (regular employees), 173 times his regular hourly rate. In the case of a relief employee, monthly earnings means the average weekly rate used to calculate Weekly Indemnity Benefits times 52 divided by 12.
c)	"Hourly Rate" means the regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime or shift bonus.
d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced by any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefits are not affected by War Pension, Workers’ Compensation Disability Pensions, or by any insurance policies he may have purchased himself.
6.	Duration of Benefit
(a)	Benefits will be paid for one month for each completed month of service, prior to
commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
(b)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears.
7.	Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
(a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrence of the same
disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
(c)	At normal retirement age, or
(d)	On death.
8.	Exclusion
(a)An employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits will not be eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
38
(b)Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan will not be payable for claims resulting
(i)	Any injury arising out of, or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
(ii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workmen's Compensation or similar legislation, or
(iii)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury while sane or
(iv)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
(v)	Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and licensed physician, or
(vi)	Pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, or any complication thereof.
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examination
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer. Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
Dated at__________, this_____day of______________, 2008.
from:
9.
Rehabilitation
FOR THE UNION
FORTHE COMPANY
Joe Hanlon Jean-Guy Serre Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux
39
40
APPENDIX " B "
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 1- 2693
Re: Work Schedules
Notwithstanding the specific terms of Article XIV, Hours of Work, it is understood that the work week and hours of work may be amended to provide alternative scheduling.
All terms will be subject to agreement between the Union, the Company and employees involved.
Dated at__________, this_____day of______________, 2008.
FOR THE UNION
FORTHE COMPANY
Joe Hanlon Jean-Guy Serre Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux
41
APPENDIX " C "
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 1- 2693
Senior employees, not in the Line of Progression, will be able to fill a vacancy in the Line of Progression created as a result of a lay-off.
(Signed this 8th day of April, 1988 at Thunder Bay, Ontario.)
Renewed at________, this_____day of____________, 2008.
FOR THE UNION
FORTHE COMPANY
Joe Hanlon Jean-Guy Serre Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux
42
APPENDIX " D "
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 1- 2693
Re: Woodyard (Workforce Flexibility)
Employees filling woodyard jobs are required to accomplish all duties assigned regardless if they are part of the Waferweld department or Plywood department.
To this effect employees are expected to fill all jobs in the yard in either assisting or replacing employees temporarily absent regardless of the department concerned.
Promotions to permanent jobs occurring in the woodyard are done in accordance with the labour agreement.
For the purpose of this agreement, woodyard jobs are considered as:
Wheeled Loader Operator Wheeled Loader Operator (Carry Lift)
Truck Driver - Tandem DZ Truck Driver - Trailer AZ Chip Loader
Note: When production is interrupted in either department, debarker operators, slasher operator, boom loader operator may be required for a period up to the end of shift to assist in the corresponding jobs or any jobs in the woodyard where production is maintained.
Nothing in this agreement is to be interpreted as limiting flexibility or practices that presently exist.
Dated at__________, this_____day of______________, 2008.
FOR THE UNION
FORTHE COMPANY
Joe Hanlon
Jean-Guy Serre
Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux
43
APPENDIX " E "
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
And
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 1- 2693
Re: Work Schedules (Article XIV)
Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule (5-Day Operation)
The following terms and conditions will apply when employees on a five (5) day continuous
operating schedule are assigned to a twelve-hour (12) shift schedule:
1.	Any questions on this schedule and its application will be resolved by the parties to fit the principle of no additional cost to the Company over what would be experienced on an eight (8) hour shift schedule.
2.	The implementation or discontinuing of this twelve (12) hour shift schedule will not involve premiums paid to any employee. The agreement can be terminated by either party within fifteen (15) days written notice.
3.	Employees will give as much notice as they possibly can on requests for leave, so that they can be replaced at straight time whenever possible.
4.	It is clearly understood that replacements must be available for relief purposes when required. In such a case, vacancies will be filled by calling relief from the pool. If trained relief is not available from the pool, these replacements may come from employees on their days off. To ensure that such replacements will be available, twelve (12) hour shift employees, prior to going on their scheduled days off, will indicate to their team leader when they will be available for work.
5.	The work day shall be twelve (12) hours, for which straight time will apply. Hours of work shall be 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Sunday shall be the period from 7:00 p.m. Saturday to 7:00 p.m. Sunday. The work schedule shall start at 7:00 p.m. on Sunday except for those on a seven (7) day schedule.
6.	All time worked in excess of a scheduled shift and all hours worked in excess of the scheduled week shall be paid for at the rate of time and one half (no pyramiding).
7.	When an employee reports for work on his scheduled shift and no work is available on his regular job and he was not notified at least two (2) hours prior to his scheduled starting time, at the telephone number he supplied to the Company, he shall be paid a
44
minimum of four (4) hour’s pay at his regular rate if he does not work or works less than four (4) hours, eight (8) hours’ pay at his regular rate if he works four (4) hours but less than eight (8) hours, and twelve (12) hours’ pay at his regular rate if he works eight (8) hours or more.
To qualify for the above, the employee must remain on the job until told by the team leader that he may leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered.
8.	Employee shall be paid eight (8) hours’ pay at straight time at their regular job rate for all Statutory Holidays for which they qualify. However, if the employee was scheduled to work on the day of the Statutory Holiday he will be paid twelve (12) hours instead of eight (8) hours.
9.	Employees on the 12 hour work schedule will be entitled to two (2) Floating Holidays per year. When a Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid at his regular job rate for twelve (12) straight time hours. The scheduling and qualifying conditions will be as outline in the Collective Agreement.
Effective June 1st 2006: one additional Floating holiday.
10.	The Bereavement Pay Article (Article XXI) is to be applied as follows:
(a)	In the case where an employee’s entitlement is a maximum of three (3) work days, the maximum indemnity paid for is 24 hours at straight time, i.e. twelve (12) hours a day for the first two (2) lost scheduled working days of the leave.
(b)	In the case where an employee’s entitlement is a maximum of five (5) work days, the maximum indemnity paid for is forty (40) hours at straight time, i.e. an employee who takes three (3) scheduled working days of leave will be paid thirty-six (36) hours (twelve hours a day); an employee who takes four (4) scheduled working days of leave will be paid forty (40) hours.
11.	Jury duty allowance will not be paid for days when an employee is not scheduled to work. Jury duty will be paid at the rate of twelve (12) hours at straight time.
12.	Vacations will be on a week basis only. A week will be seven (7) consecutive days including both working days and scheduled days off.
13.	The rest periods during the regular twelve (12) hour shift will not exceed a total of fifty (50) minutes. Article 14.08, 15 minutes approximately 9:30, 20 minutes approximately 12:00, 15 minutes approximately 3:30.
14.	Shift differential will be paid from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. at a rate of sixty-eight cents ($0.68) per hour effective first pay period following ratification.
Effective June 1st 2003 ($0.69) per hour June 1st 2004 ($0.70) per hour June 1st 2005 ($0.71) per hour
15.	Weekly Indemnity will be paid as at present on the basis that a loss of income has occurred. i.e. Forty (40) hours’ pay divided by seven (7) days to equal the daily rate.
45
16.	The schedule is as per existing schedule.
Dated at	, this day of	, 2008.
	FOR THE UNION	FORTHE COMPANY
Joe Hanlon Jean-Guy Serre Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux
46
APPENDIX " F "
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 1- 2693
Re: Work Schedules (Article XIV)
Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule (7-Day Operation)
The following terms and conditions will apply when employees on a seven (7) day continuous operating schedule are assigned to a twelve (12) hour shift schedule.
Any questions on this schedule and its application will be resolved by the parties to fit the principle of no additional cost to the Company over what would be experienced on an eight (8) hour shift schedule.
1.	In the event of a reduction of forces to a five (5) day operation the Company will give two (2) weeks notice and meet with the union.
2.	The implementation or discontinuing of this twelve (12) hour shift schedule will not involve premiums paid to any employee. Shift scheduling will continue until the completion of pay period. In cases of lay-off due to breakdown clause 15.08 will apply.
3.	Employees will give as much notice as they possibly can on requests for leave, so that they can be replaced at straight time whenever possible.
4.	It is clearly understood that replacements must be available for relief purposes when required. In such a case, vacancies will be filled by calling relief from the pool. If trained relief is not available from the pool, these replacements may come from employees on their days off. To ensure that such replacements will be available, twelve (12) hour shift employees, prior to going on their scheduled days off, will indicate to their team leader when they will be available for work.
5.	The work day shall be twelve (12) hours, for which straight time will apply. Hours of work shall be 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Sunday shall be the period from 7:00 a.m. Sunday to 7:00 a.m. Monday.
47
6.	All time worked in excess of a scheduled shift, on a scheduled day(s) off, on Sunday or on a holiday, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one half. All time worked on Sunday or on a holiday in excess of twelve (12) hours shall be paid for at double times his regular rate.
7.	When an employee reports for work on his scheduled shift and no work is available on his regular job and he was not notified at least two (2) hours prior to his scheduled starting time, at the telephone number he supplied to the Company, he shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his regular rate if he does not work or works less than four (4) hours, eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate if he works four (4) hours but less than eight (8) hours, and twelve (12) hours pay at his regular rate if he worked eight (8) hours or more.
To qualify for the above, the employee must remain on the job until told by the team leader that he may leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered.
8.	Employees shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at straight time at their regular job rate for all Statutory Holidays for which they qualify. However, if the employee was scheduled to work on the day of Statutory Holiday he will be paid twelve (12) hours instead of eight (8) hours.
9.	Employees on the twelve (12) hour work schedule will be entitled to two (2) Floating Holidays per year. When a Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid at his regular job rate for twelve (12) straight time hours. The scheduling and qualifying conditions will be as outlined in the Collective Agreement.
Effective June 1st 2006 : one additional Floating holiday.
10.	The Bereavement Pay Article (Article XXI) is to be applied as follows:
(a)	In the case where an employee’s entitlement is a maximum of three (3) work days, the maximum indemnity paid for is 24 hours at straight time, i.e. twelve (12) hours a day for the first two (2) lost scheduled working days of the leave.
(b)	In the case where an employee’s entitlement is a maximum of five (5) work days, the maximum indemnity paid for is forty (40) hours at straight time, i.e. an employee who takes three (3) scheduled working days of leave will be paid thirty-six (36) hours (twelve hours a day); an employee who takes four (4) scheduled working days of leave will be paid forty (40) hours.
11.	Jury duty allowance will not be paid for days when an employee is not scheduled to work. Jury duty will be paid at the rate of twelve (12) hours at straight time.
12.	Vacation will be on a weekly basis only. A week will be seven (7) consecutive days including both working days and scheduled days off.
13.	The rest periods during the regular twelve (12) hour shift will not exceed a total of fifty (50) minutes.
48
14.	Shift differential will be paid from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. at rate of sixty-eight cents ($0.68) per hour effective first pay period following ratification.
Effective June 1st 2003 ($0.69) per hour Effective June 1st 2004 ($0.70) per hour Effective June 1st 2005 ($0.71) per hour
15.	Weekly indemnity will be paid as at present on the basis that a loss of income has occurred, i.e. Forty (40) hours pay divided by seven (7) days to equal the daily rate.
16.	In case of overtime, the senior person(s) who has signed in the overtime book and who normally perform(s) the job will be called in. If not available, the senior man who can perform the job will be called in and so forth. Overtime is paid as per item 6 above.
17.	If the parties agree to introduce a four (4) day, ten (10) hour shift schedule, it will be on the following terms: The ten (10) hour schedule will be from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday to Friday for which straight time shall apply. All time worked in excess of their scheduled shifts Article 14.05 a) and b) shall apply. An additional ten (10) minute break will be allowed during the last two (2) hours of the shift (rest period will not exceed more than forty (40) minutes). Article 1 and 2 of the twelve (12) hour agreement shall apply.
18.	The five (5) day and seven (7) day schedules are as per the existing schedules.
Dated at__________, this_____day of______________, 2008.
FOR THE UNION
FORTHE COMPANY
Joe Hanlon Jean-Guy Serre Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux
49
APPENDIX "G”
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 1- 2693
Re: 6-Day Work Schedule
The changing market profile for either waferboard or plywood products requires that the Company seeks greater flexibility to harmonize market variations so as to provide good customer service and reduce costs while delivering a better employment security.
To this effect, if needed, the parties agree to meet during the life of the labour agreement to negotiate a six (6) day operation schedule based on the following guiding principles:
A)	The schedule based on thirty-six (36) hours per work for production employees has to deliver forty (40) hours pay to the regular employees covered by this new schedule.
B)	All terms and conditions negotiated will be subject to a written contractual agreement between the Union and the Company.
C)	The parties agree to support the effective implementation of the change so as to optimize production while ensuring the best interests for the employees.
Dated at__________, this_____day of______________, 2008.
FOR THE UNION
FORTHE COMPANY
Joe Hanlon
Jean-Guy Serre
Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux
50
APPENDIX "H"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 1- 2693
Re: Flex Shift
The following terms and conditions for a weekend flex shift will apply to employees on such an operating schedule in the plywood and waferboard departments.
Either party may request a meeting to discuss any problems that may arise in the operation of this agreement. The agreement can be terminated by either party with thirty (30) days written notice.
The parties agree to the following:
1.	Flex shift job classifications:
Job classifications will move to a flex schedule as production requirements demand.
a)	Flex positions will be posted with regular and pool employees being eligible to apply.
b)	Regular department employees in the relief pool, as a result of layoff, will have first right of recall to any jobs created as a result of postings.
c)	Job classifications not filled through the posting process in one department will be posted in the other department as per Collective Agreement.
d)	Any remaining vacant job classifications will be filled by relief pool employees on a seniority basis.
2.	Hours of work - Flex-shift employees will follow the schedule as outlined below:
Friday	11:00 pm	to	Saturday	7:00 am -	8 hours
Saturday	3:00 pm	to	Sunday	3:00 am -	12 hours
Sunday	11:00 am	to	Sunday	11:00 pm -	12 hours
51
3.	Rates of Pay - Employees following the flex-shift schedule will receive forty (40) hours pay for thirty-two (32) hours work at their job classification rate, conditional on all three (3) days being worked.
4.	Employees will give as much notice as they possibly can on requests for leave, so that they can be replaced at straight time whenever possible.
5.	All time worked in excess of their scheduled shift and on their scheduled day(s) off and their regular scheduled shift on Sunday or on a holiday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one half. All time worked on Sunday or on a holiday in excess of his/her scheduled shift shall be paid for at double times their regular rate.
6.	When employees report for work on his/her scheduled shift and no work is available on his/her regular job and if they were not notified at least two (2) hours prior to their scheduled starting time, at the telephone number they supplied to the Company, they shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at their regular rate if they do not work or work less than four (4) hours, eight (8) hours pay at their regular rate if they work four (4) hours but less than eight (8) hours, and twelve (12) hours pay at their regular rate if they work eight (8) hours or more.
To qualify for the above, the employees must remain on the job until told by the Team Leader that they may leave and must accept other than their normal work if it is offered.
7.	Statutory holidays will be paid as per Collective Agreement (Article IX).
8.	Employees on the flex-shift will be entitled to three (3) floating holidays per year as per the Collective Agreement.
Effective June 1st 2006: one additional Floating holiday.
9.	The Bereavement Pay Article (Article XXI) is to be applied as follows:
a)	In the case where an employee's entitlement is a maximum of three (3) work days, the maximum indemnity paid for is 24 hours at straight time.
b)	In the case where an employee's entitlement is a maximum of five (5) work days, the maximum indemnity paid for is forty (40) hours at straight time.
10.	Jury Duty allowance will not be paid for days when an employee is not scheduled to work. Jury duty will be paid at the rate of eight (8) hours at straight time.
11.	The rest periods on the eight (8) hour shift will not exceed a total of thirty (30) minutes. The rest periods during the regular twelve (12) hour shift will not exceed a total of fifty (50) minutes.
12.	Vacation will be as outlined in the Collective Agreement (Article VIII -- 8.01 - 8.02).
Each two (2) percent increment of vacation pay shall entitle an employee to one (1) week time off. One (1) week to be forty (40) hours pay - Friday 11:00 pm to Sunday 11:00 pm.
13.	Weekly Indemnity will be paid as at present on the basis that a loss of income has occurred. (Example: Forty (40) hours pay divided by seven (7) days to equal the daily rate).
52
14.	It is clearly understood that replacements must be available for relief purposes when required. In such cases, the senior regular employees who have signed in the overtime book and who normally perform(s) the job will be called in. If not available, the senior man who can perform the job will be called in and so forth. Overtime is paid as per item 5 above.
15.	In circumstances of oversupply and/or to manage veneer inventory levels on an ongoing basis, employees will be expected to accept other job assignments throughout the Plywood department.
Dated at__________, this_____day of______________, 2008.
FOR THE UNION
FORTHE COMPANY
Joe Hanlon Jean-Guy Serre Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux
53
APPENDIX "I "
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 1- 2693
Re: Yard
When the Company needs to engage a contractor on a temporary basis to operate extra pieces of equipment in the yard area to perform production-type work, whenever reasonably practicable, the Company shall give seven (7) days advance notice to the Union to afford the Union an opportunity for discussion.
The Company may appoint an employee to operate such equipment, provided the employee is qualified to do so. When such equipment is run by the contractor’s employees, they shall be USW members.
If either the Union or the Company is dissatisfied with the way in which this Letter of Understanding is being administered, the dissatisfied party may require the other party to meet within thirty (30) days to engage in meaningful consultation concerning the manner in which this Letter of Understanding is being administered. Should the parties not be able to resolve the source of dissatisfaction during such consultation, this Letter of Understanding may be cancelled on the mutual agreement of the President of Local 1 - 2693 and the Human Resources Manager of the Company.
(Signed at Thunder Bay, October 10, 1997.)
Renewed at________, this_____day of____________, 2008.
FOR THE UNION
FORTHE COMPANY
Joe Hanlon
Jean-Guy Serre
Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke
54
Stanford Lemieux
APPENDIX “J ”
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
Longlac Wood Industries Inc.
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 1- 2693
Shipping Department - Flexibility	April 25, 2002
The following will outline the points on which the Parties have agreed:
•	Shippers will maintain their home seniority with postings following the process outlined in Article 15.14 of the Collective Agreement.
•	It is understood that either shipper may be required to assist with shipping duties in either department.
•	Overtime opportunities will be granted to the senior shipper who is from the department where such work is required.
These duties are understood to be:
•	Hauling and loading cores when required.
•	Loading, hauling and unloading of L.M.C in either department.
•	Loading of railcars or trucks as required.
•	In circumstances where the shipper from one department is required to assist in the other, the company will not then cover that employee with a person from the mill.
•	Either party may request a meeting to address problems that may result from the application of this letter.
Renewed at________, this_____day of____________, 2008.
Joe Hanlon
Jean-Guy Serre
Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux
55
APPENDIX "K "
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 1- 2693
Re: Temporary reductions
The parties agree that effective January 1, 2009 to December 31st, 2010 employees shall continue to receive their floating holidays each year with the understanding that there will be no pay. Effective January 1st 2011 employees shall then receive pay for the floating holidays as per the collective agreement.
The parties further agree that effective July 1st 2008 the Company will continue to match the voluntary one hundred and ten dollars ($110.00) per member towards pension however the Company will not have to contribute the initial one hundred and ten dollars ($110.00) towards the pension. Effective June 1st 2010 the Company shall pay the initial one hundred and ten dollars ($110.00) towards the pension as per the collective agreement.
The parties also agree that there shall be no shift differential paid for any shift work effective date of ratification. Effective June 1st 2010 the Company shall pay shift differential as per the collective agreement.
Dated___________, this_______day of______________, 2008.
FOR THE UNION
FORTHE COMPANY
Joe Hanlon
Jean-Guy Serre
Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O’Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux
56
APPENDIX "L"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LONGLAC WOOD INDUSTRIES INC.
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 1-2693
Re: Job Security
In recognition of the wage reduction, it is agreed that the Company shall commence operation before June 25, 2008.
The Company agrees that all employees on the seniority list as of the date of ratification shall be recalled on or before June 25, 2008 and shall continue to work for a minimum of 525 hours.
The operation will be on a 2-shift basis in the Plywood and Wafer and the Company agrees that each shift will once commenced, work for a minimum of 525 hours. The Plywood operation is committed to attaining the minimum 525 hours within a four month period from date of ratification.
The parties agree that should an act of god take place during the 525 hour period that would effect the continued operation, the parties shall meet to discuss whether to amend, suspend or extend the 525 hour period.
The parties agree that should the operation shut down after the 525 hours of operation for an extended period of time prior to June 1st 2010, employees that choose to take severance shall be paid at the May 31st 2007 rates.
Dated___________, this________day of______________, 2008.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
Joe Hanlon
Jean-Guy Serre
Roger Gagnon
Bert Poulin Danny Lavoie Ross Taylor
Stephane Guinta Paulo Gignac John O'Brien Al Clarke Stanford Lemieux