SOURCE
EFF.
TERM.
&0<
m

£2
oQ>
0/1
30
No. OF IMPtOYEES
FSo I
AGREEIilEN^
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (Merrill & Wagner Division) and
IWA • CANADA LOCAL 1-425, C.L.C.
JULY 1, 1988 - JUNE 30, 1991
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
I	Bargaining Agency
II	Definition
III	Management
IV	Union Security
V	Wages
VI	Pay Days
VII	Hours of Work and Overtime
VIII	Seniority
IX	Leave of Absence
X	Vacations with Pay
XI	Statutory Holidays
XII	Safety and Health
XIII	Grievance Procedure
XIV	Right of Reference
XV	Interpretation and Arbitration XVI	General Provisions
XVII	Health and Welfare
XVIII	Long Term Disability Plan
XIX	I.W.A. - Forest Industry Pension Plan XX	Job Training
XXI Apprenticeship Training Program XXII	Technological Change
XXIII Plywood Job Evaluation Plan XXIV	Safety Equipment
XXV	Tool Insurance
XXVI	Firefighting Agreement
XXVII	Sawmill Rate Determination
XXVIII	Contracting Out
XXIX	Duration of Agreement
SUPPLEMENT
1
2
2
2
5
7
7
13
16
20
24
27
28
29
30
31
36
38
39
39
39
40
41
42
43
43
44
ii>
No.	1	Wage Scales	48
No.	2	Job Training Programs	54
No.	3A	Apprenticeship Training Program	55
No.	3B	Apprenticeship Training Program ~ Filing and Fitting Trades	65
No.	4	Plywood Job Evaluation	74
No.	5	Firefighting Agreement	79
No.	6	Pension Plan	82
no.	7	Construction Contracting	83
No.	8	Alternate Shift Scheduling	84
Kb.	9	Letters of Understanding	87
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 1st day of July, 1988
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OP CANADA LIMITED (WILLIAMS LAKE DIVISION)
(hereinafter known as the "Company"] OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
IWA CANADA, Local 1-425, C.L.C.
(hereinafter known as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
1.	WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the Parties hereto that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial
and economic relationships between the employees and the Company, and to Set forth herein the basic Agreement between the Parties hereto, AND
2.	WHEREAS the Company accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement, and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Employees, AND
3.	WHEREAS the Union accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement, and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the company,
now THEREFORE the Parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - BARGAINING AGENCY
Section 1:
The Company agrees to recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining representative on behalf of its Employees properly and duly certified under the appropriate regulations in effect from time to time.
Section 2;
2
The tParty of the First Part agrees that the bargaining authority of the Party of the Second Part shall not be impaired during the term of this new collective agreement. The Party of the First Part agrees that the only certification they will recognize during the term of this new Agreement is that of the Party of the Second part unless ordered by due process of law to recognize some other bargaining authority.
ARTICLE II “ DEFINITION
The term "Employee" as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Company on which behalf the IWA CANADA, Local 1-425,	C.L.C., has been certified as
bargaining agents, except and excluding foremen and others having authority to hire and fire, office workers, supervisory officials and salesmen.
ARTICLE III ~ MANAGEMENT
The Management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the Employees are vested exclusively in the Management, provided, however, that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
ARTICLE IV - UNION SECURITY
Section 1:
The Company will co-operate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members, the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present to new employees and to all Supervisors and Foremen, the Policy herein expressed.
Section 2
\y . All employees who entered the employment of the Company's Veneer *4/ Plant on or after the 8th of June, 1965, and all new employees, * shall within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution c£ this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
All employees of the Sawmill, Planer Mill, Yard and Shop who entered the employment of the company on or after the 1st day of October. 1964, and all new employees, shall, within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the union and maintain membership therein
3
throughout the term of this agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
Section 3:
Any employee who is a member in good standing, or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement.
Section 4:
a)	Any employee who fails to maintain his membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments, shall be subject to discharge after seven (J7) days written notice to the company of the said Employee's refusal to maintain his/her membership.
bj It is agreed that the application of this Section means that when an enployee fails to maintain his/her membership in good standing by refusing to pay dues and assessments, and provided proper notice has been given in accordance with the Agreement, the employee will be discharged for such refusal.
Section 5
a]	No enployee shall be subject to any penalties against his/her application for membership or reinstatement, except as nay be provided for in the I.W.A. National Constitution, as revised 1988 and in accordance with the By-Laws of Local 1-425, which the Local Union Certified as being correct as of July, 1982.
b)	Any enployee who applies to join the Union pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Onion, shall not be subject to discharge from employment.
Section 6:
X
The Company shall require all new employees, at the time of hiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union. All checkoff forms to be forwarded to the Local Union within fifteen (15) days of hiring.
4
IWA CANADA CHECK ~ OPF
Starting Date________19.
Namp TTmpi nypr	Name o£ Employee — —
Address
Postal Code
Phone:	_____________
(Please Print)
Social Insurance Number
Are you a Member of the I.W.A.?
In what I.W.A. operation were you last employed?
Local anion ________________________________________________
I HEREBY AUTHORIZE AND INSTRUCT YOU TO DEDUCT FROM W WAGES AND
REMIT TO LOCAL 1-______ THE FOLLOWING IN PAYMENT OF TEE AMOUNT SET
om BELOW;
1.	Union Initiation fees in the amount of S______________
2.	Union Back Dues in the mount of	S_________
3.	Union Dues $______ per month, commencing ^	.19	.
4.	Union Assessments in the amount and at the time stated in notice received by you from the Local Onion designated above.
Clock No
---APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
I hereby request and accept membership in the IWA CANADA Local 1_____, and agree to abide by the constitution and by-law of the
organization. In case of misstatement of qualifications for membership I agree to forfeit all rights, privileges and monies paid.
Signature of Applicant-Employee
Section 7:
5
This assignment, in the case of Employees already members of the [Inion shall be effective immediately and for those Employees not previously members of the Union, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution.
The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked by the employee) to the Local [Inionnamed therein, no later than the 15th day of the month following the month in which the deduction was made from the employee, with a written statement of names of employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
Section 8;
The Company shall furnish the [Inionwith Social Insurance Number of each employee on its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded to the Union after the execution of this Agreement or after the Employee enters the employment of the Company, whichever date last occurs.
ARTICLE V - WAGES
Section IL
a)	The Parties agree that effective the fifteenth day of June 1988, the wages of all hourly rated employees will be increased by eighty-five cents (85 cents) per hour.
b)	The Parties agree that effective the fifteenth day of June 1989, the wages of all hourly rated employees will be increased by a further five-and-one-half percent (5-1/21) per hour.
c)	The Parties agree that effective the fifteenth day of June 1990, the wages of all hourly rated employees will be increased by a further five-and-one-half percent (5-1/1\) per hour.
d)	Employees who have left the employ of the Company must apply within thirty (30) days of ratification to be eligible for retroactive pay flowing from this Agreement.
e)
The Parties agree that the minimum rate in the mill common labour shall be:
i)	$15,335	per	hour	effective	June	15th,
ii)	$16.18	per	hour	effective	June	15th.
iii)	$17.07	per	hour	effective	June	15th,
1988.	/!
1989.
1990.
\
6
Section 2? Grading Tickets
a)	Umber Graders
Ail certified lumber graders shall receive the premiums set out below, in addition to the Job Evaluation Rate.
Class A Grading Certificate - fifteen cents '(15 cents! per hour*
Class B Grading Certificate - ten cents (10 cents) per hour.
Provided that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as lumber graders.
b)	Lumber Grading Certificates
Any employee holding a Class A car b Lumber Grading Certificate shall receive a premium of five cents (5 cents) per hour for all hours worked. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
c)	Grading Tickets shall be permanent and valid certificates, but graders shall remain subject to the regulations of X.fc.M.A., C.L.M.A., C.O.F.I., N.I.L.A., P.L.I.B., and other regulatory bodies.
d)	All lumber graders holding grading certificates shall attend upgrading classes As required.
e)	Lumber graders who are required to attend upgrading classes '(grading rule changes) shall receive their regular straight time rate for time spent attending such classes.
f)	Where a company is paying a bonus or premium!s) greater than set out below, it shall keep such Policy in effect.
Section 3 Pirst Aid Attendants
a)	Designated First Aid Attendants shall receive their job rate of pay plus the Ticket premium rate. All other employees holding valid First Aid Tickets shall receive a premium of five cents (5 cents) per hour over and above their job rate. There shall be not stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
b)	Where a Company is paying a bonus or premium(s) greater than set out above, it shall keep such policy in effect.
7
Section 4
It is agreed that employees engaged on contract or piecework shall not receive less money than the equivalent of the hourly rate specified in the wage schedule for the number of hours worked in each pay period.
Section 5 Shift Differential
The first shift is the recognized day shift, Sours worked outside the recognized day shift shall be regarded as the second and third shifts. A shift differential of thirty-one cents (31 cents) per hour shall be paid for second and third^sftift,s« 'A day shift employee working in excess of His/her regular shilrt shall be paid rate and one-half without the differential. Any employee on the second or third shift working in excess of his/her regular shift shall receive rate and one-half. For the purpose of the last sentence, rate shall be rate plus thirty-one (31 cents).	Persons
employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one cents (31 cents). Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one (31 cents) shift differential for all hours worked outside the recognized day shift.
Section 6:
In the event that job conditions change or new machinery is installed, or a new category is established, the Union and the Company agree to meet to discuss designation and wage rates to be paid to the employees concerned.
Section 7:
Effective June 15* 1931, the Company agrees to pay a Power Saw allowance of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per day to Hill Buckers who maintain and operate their own Power Saws. Effective June 15, 1982 the allowance is increased to eighteen dollars ($18.00) per day.
ARTICLE V I - PAY DAYS
a)	The Company shall provide for pay days every second week.
b)	Each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
ARTICLE VII - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 1:
a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (4 0) hours per week, Monday to Friday inclusive, subject to the exceptions contained in Sections 2 and 3 of this Article.
Overtime for production workers will he paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight {8} in a day and for Saturday and/or Sunday work, with the following exceptions:
Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following?
i) Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day.
ii) Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
ill) Item ii) above shall not apply to employees. who work on Sunday/as a regular scheduled day.
iv)	For the purpose of these provisions, a Statutory Holiday *-«~*^}shall be considered as a shift worifd..-.......	-	__
If a Statutory Holiday occurs during the work week, the employees shall only be required to work on Saturday and/or Sunday for the time lost due to the Statutory Holiday by mutual consent. For such work the employee shall be paid rate and one half.
Section 2	,
a)	Those employees who. of necessity, regularly work on Saturday and Sunday shall take two (2) other days of the week off to be imtually agreed between the employees and the Company. In such event, Saturday and Sunday Shall be considered working days and overtime rates shall not apply on Saturday. However, these Employees shall be paid rate and one half for work performed on Sunday. Overtime rates shall apply when the regular daily or weekly work limit has been exceeded. Overtime rates shall apply on the rest days of these Employees, if worked, unless a change i n rest days has been agreed upon between the Employees and the Company.
For the purpose of this Section only, employees shall be Engineers, Firemen. Operating Millwrights, Maintenance Workers and Watchmen.
c)	Maintenance, Repair and Construction Employees can be employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, for which they shall be paid straight time tor Saturday work. In such event, Sunday and Monday shall be recognized as their rest days ana any work performed on their rest days shall be paid for at rate and one half. The rest day, nonday, nay be changed by mitual consent between the Employee and the Company. In such event, work performed on Monday shall be paid for* at straight time. If the Employee works on Monday at the request of the Company, the rate of pay will be rate and one half. However, if
9
the employee requests a temporary change from his/her rest day on Monday, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight tine.
d)	if a Statutory Holiday occurs on the Employee's regular day off, he/she shall be entitled to take his/her next regular work day off without pay.
Section 3:
The weekly and daily hours shall be in accordance with the Hours of Work Act of British Columbia.
■Section 4:	Alternate Shift Scheduling
a)	Management, Plant or canp Committees and the Local union shall have the right under the terns of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement Other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturing operations, nay include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour week is maintained over an averaging period. Rate and one-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday.
b)	Any variation(s) to the preceding Sections denoting normal hours of work shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
i)	Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Local Management.
ii)	Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations.
c)	When alternative shift schedules have been implemented in accordance with (a) and b) above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A.	i) The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours of the established schedule.
j,ij Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there i s an averaging period.
ill) All hours worked on an employee's scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between	the	employee and the
Company.
(iv) All hours worked on Sunday except
10
those excluded in the casual section.
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	All hours worked in excess of A(i) above.
ii)	All hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday is also an employee' s scheduled rest day, if the employee has worked forty (40) straight-time hours in the preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
C.	Supplement No* 8 * Alternate Shift Scheduling, contains the agreed upon general principles and parameters for the establishment, implementation or discontinuance of alternate shift schedules.
Section 5; Three Shift Operation
it) The Company shall have the right to operate the plant or any part thereof on a three-shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours' pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Company’s option.
b)	Section a) above shall only apply to those employees actually working on a three-shift basis.
section 6:
It is agreed between the Parties that if three (3) hours or less are necessary after midnight Friday, or on a Statutory Holiday, to complete the shift which commenced work on Friday afternoon, or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight to complete this shift will be paid at straight time.
Section 7:
The foregoing Provisions of this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeing to any employee any nuxrber of hours of work per day or per week.
11
Section 8:
Any employee called for work and finding no work available due to reasons beyond bis car her control shall be entitled to two (2) hours pay at the usual rate. This shall apply unless the Company gives notice cancelling the said call.
Section 9:
IThen an employee is called for work and starts work he/she shall receive four (4) hours pay at his/her regular rate unless his/her work is suspended because of inclement weather, or other reasons
scheduled shift shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours at rate and one half.
Section 11:
All employees in manufacturing plants shall be entitled to two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods during each regular shift: provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision.
Section 12:
a)	The term "Casual Work" as used in this Agreement shall apply only to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-off regular employees or other persons hereinafter referred to as "Casual Employees".
b)	Casual employees on maintenance, repair or preparatory work shall be paid at straight-time job rates, and those on production shall be paid rate and one half for all work performed on Saturday or Sunday.
c)	. Casual work on maintenance, repair and preparatory work
will be paid at Straight-time job rate.
d)	Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as Casual Employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said casual employees.
e)	The employer agrees to keep a separate seniority list of casual employees who have worked at least ten (10) working days, exclusively for recall purposes and, subject to clause d), further agrees to recall casual employees in accordance with their neniority as set forth in this list.
their regular
Section 13:
12
When an employee is unavoidably prevented from reporting to his/her scheduled shift, if reasonably possible, he/she must give notice to his/her foreman, or at the Company office, at least two (2) hours before the shift commences.
Section 14:
The company agrees to discontinue the use of time clocks subject
to the following:
a)	The general use of clocks to be discontinued for a trial period of three (3) months.
b)	New employees are to punch the clock for the first three (3) months of employment.
c)	Casual employees are to punch the clock.
d)	Employees who report late must punch the clock and have the card initialled ky their Foreman.
e}	Employees	may	make	arrangements with employees on the
same jobs	on	their following shift to relieve them a
maximum of ten (10) minutes prior to their regular quitting time providing they have permission of both Foremen involved.
f)	Employees may enter or leave their place of work by the Main Entrance only.
g)	Employees	who	work	overtime must punch the clock.
h)	Employees	who	have	been absent and return to work must
report to their department foreman at the commencement of tie shift.
i)	Employees who abuse the systemshall be required to punch the clock for a three (3) month period.
j)	Employees abusing the honour systemwill still be subject to Article III of the Collective agreement.
section 15t
Where maintenance, repair and construction employees are required to work two (2) nours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the company shall provide a hot meal, such hot meal to be consumed by the employees on company time before beginning the overtime
work.
SENIORITY
Section 1:
13
ARTICLE VIII -
a)	All employees hired shall be on a probation for thirty
(30) days worked, and during such period no seniority rights shall be recognized.
b)	Opon completion of thirty (30) days worked they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company's employ, provided however that the probationary period of thirty (30) days worked shall only be cumulative within the three (3) calendar months following the date of entering employment.
c)	It is agreed that probationary employees will have preference over Casual employees for any work performed during the normal work week, subject to competency.
d)	It is further agreed that in the application of (c) above, probationary employees will be called in for work in accordance with their hire date, unless such call-in is beyond the control of the employer, and is subject to the employee being competent to perform the work. This obligation does not apply where the employee cannot be readily contacted or where the employee has worked one shift in the 24 hour period.
Section 2;
It is agreed that upon the request of the Union, a list will be supplied by the Company setting out the name and the starting date with the Company of each regular employee. However, such request shall not be granted more than twice during each year of the term of this Agreement. The Company shall advise the Union once each month of changes to the said list.
Section 3:
a)	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority, competency considered.
b)	The application of seniority shall be determined by Division as set out below;
X.	Plywood Division
2.	Sawmill Division
3.	Open Division
c)	The seniority provisions of this Agreement shall apply separately to each division. Employees who have been laid off shall, in the event of job openings occurring in another Division, be given preferential hiring on the
14
basis of seniority ent itleiaent.
Section 4t
a) The Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline them or discharge them for proper cause.
b)


promotions shall be entirely a matter for the Ccnpany's decision, likewise the selection of supervisory officials, but in making promotions, other things being equal, the company agrees to give due consideration to the length of continuous service.
a)	It is mutually agreed that when hiring new employees, consideration for preference shall, subject to the same conditions as in Section 3a), be given to those employees of the company having had previous seniority and who have application on file.
b)	The Company signatory to this Agreement undertakes to give preference in hiring to former employees having previous company seniority seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reduction in other operations of the Company.
A.
a)	It is agreed that when employees are to be re-hired after a''■.lay-off. it shall be done on the basis of the last person released shall be the first person re—employed, subject to provisions of Section 3a). It is agreed that in case of emergency the application of plant seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding three <3) days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under these provisions it shall nottfy the Committee or the Local Onion immediately.
b)	Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions, theapplfcation of seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding Live (S) working days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under these provisions, it shall notify the Shop Committee as soon as possible.
Section 53
Section 6:
c)	During a reduction of forces where an employee's seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regular jcto, he/she may elect to apply his/her seniority to obtain a job paying a higher rate if he/she has previously held the job in the operation on a regular
basis.
IS
d>
During a reduction of forces where an employee' s seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regular job, he/she may elect whether or not to apply his/her seniority to obtain a lower paid job ok a job paying the same rate of pay or accept a lay-off until his/her regular job becomes available, provided however:
i)
If during the lay-off period the employee wishes to return to work and so notifies the Company, he/she shall be called back to work as soon as his/her seniority entitles his/her to a job.
ii) The application of this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his/her rights, bumping an employee with less seniority.
Section 7:

In the event of a reduction of the forces, the last person hired shall be the first released, subject to the competency of the person involved and the provisions of Section 3 a).
Section a
It is agreed that when employees are to be re-employed after a layoff it shall be done on the basis of the last person released shall be the first person re-employed, subject to the provisions of Section 3 a).
Section 9:
a)	When re-employing in accordance with Section 8, after a shutdown all employees shall be notified by telegram or registered letter at least seven (7) days before restart of operations. The employees must reply by telegram or registered letter in the affirmative within ninety-six (96) hours of the telegram or registered letter being sent out by the Company, and appear for work not later than the end of the above stated seven (7) day period.
b)	Employees resident in the Province of Alberta or the Yukon Territory shall be entitled to one (1) additional day to report and employees resident in any other Canadian Province or the United States shall be entitled to two (2) additional days to report.
16
c)	It shall be the employees' responsibility to keep the Company informed of their addresses during the period of the shutdown.
4) It is agreed that all enployees shall, upon returning to employment in accordance with this Section, retain all seniority rights.
Section 10:
It is agreed between the Parties that seniority during layoffs shall be retained on the following basis:
a)	Enployees with less than one (1) year's service shall retain their seniority for a period of eight (8) months.
Enployees with one (1) or more year's service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one (1) additional six (6) months.
A laid-off employee's seniority retention under a) and
b)	above is reinstated on the completion of one (1) day's work.
Section 11
It is agreed that when an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory or staff position, he car she will continue to accumulate seniority for a period of ninety (90) days. At any time during this ninety (90) day period the individual shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit in the job which he/she would have held if he/she had not left the bargaining unit. (In special cases this ninety (90) day period may be extended for up to a further ninety (90) days by mutual agreement between the Company and the Shop Committee.) At the expiration of the period mentioned above/ his/her seniority will be frozen. Thus# if at a later date he or she ceases to be a supervisory or staff worker and the Company desires to retain his or her services, it is hereby agreed that reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit, provided however that any employee so reinstated must return to the job held at the time of his or her promotion to the supervisory or staff position. ■
a)	Any employee desiring leave of absence for any reason other than those set out in Sections 2 and 3 of this Article must obtain same in writing from the Company, a copy of such leave to be forwarded to the Local Union.
17
b) Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this Section for a period of longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the Company agrees to notify the Job Steward and the Union as to the circumstances for the granting of such period of leave.
Section 2;
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering illness or injury, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the employer. The employee shall report, or cause to have reported, to the Company the injury or illness which requires his or her absence from the operation. The employee shall have a reasonable period of time to present a medical certificate if requested by the Conpany.
Section 3:
a)
b)
0
S?
The conpany shall grant leave of absence to employees } who are appointed or elected to Union office for a period	■
of up to and including one (1) year. Further leave of \ absence may be granted by mituai consent. Any employee ^ who obtains such leave of absence shall return to the Conpany within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of his/her term of employment with the Union.
The Conpany will grant leave of absence to employees who a , are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings J5 and Union conventions, or members of any union Negotiating committee, in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Onion.
c)	It is agreed that before the employee receives this Leave of Absence as set forth in clauses a) and b) above, the Conpany be given notice in writing (in the case of a) -fifteen (15) calendar days, i n the case of b) * five (5) calendar days) by the Union in order to replace the employee with a competent substitute.
d)	The Union will make every effort in requesting such leaves of absence to avoid requests that will unduly deplete the crew in any one department which will inpair production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Union will co-operate with the Company in making such substitute employees available or select alternate delegates to attend Union functions.
Section 4:	Compassionate Leave
By mitual agreement leave of absence will be granted to a maximum of six (6) months without pay to the employees for compassionate reasons or Lor education or training or extended vacation purposes, conditional on the following terms:
a)
a)	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application.
cj The Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason Is advanced by the applicant or may postpone leave where a suitable replacement is not available.
at the Cosipany will consult with the Shop Committee in Respect of any application for leave under this Section.
The Company will only be obliged to grant leave of absence for educational and training purposes to employees who intend to take training that will assist the individual in obtaining skills related to the industry.
£« It is agreed that employees requesting leave of absence 1 for extended vacation during the months June 15 to Septeirber 15, shall only be granted such leave once every three (3) years, and that a record be kept Cor the purpose of rotating such leaves.
The Union agrees it will provide a letter regarding problems which arise from extended vacation applications.
Section 5
To provide for a reasonable period of time for extended maternity leave without pay to female employees where there is a valid medical reason.
Section <5 Bereavement Leave
a) When death occurs to a member of a regular full-time employee's immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence for which he/she shall be compensated at his/her regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for hours lost from his/her regular work schedule for a maximum of three consecutive days.
Pieceworkers who are entitled to bereavement leave shall be compensated in accordance with the principle established in Article IX, Section b).
c)	Members of the employee's immediate family are defined as the employee * S spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law, father-in-law. step-parents, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchildren, step-children, sons-in-lawanddaughter-in-law.
19
d)' Cecpensable hours under the terns of this section will be counted as hours worked far the purpose of qualifying for vara tiers and for recognized paid holidays, but w’fll not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.	^
Section 7:--Jury Duty
a)	Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, Coroner's Duty, or as a Crown Witness or coroner's Witness, on a day which he or she would normally have worked, will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay received for Jury Duty and his/her regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for his/her regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight {8} per day or forty (40) per week,' less statutory pay received for Jury Duty. The enployee will be required to furnish proof of Jury Service and Jury Duty pay received.
b)	Any piece worker who is required to perform Jury Duty shall be compensated for the difference between statutory pay received for Jury Duty and his job rate in accordance with the principle established in Article XI, Section 2 b>.
c} Hours paid for Jury Duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 8?:
a)
b)
The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office, for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, provided the Conpany is given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for SUCn application could not reasonably be foreseen.
Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of such office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for conducting Municipal business.
20
c)	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
ARTICLE X -VACATIONS WITH PAY
With respect to annual vacations and vacation pay the following provisions will apply:	'	•
section 1:	One to Two Years' Service

The annual vacation for employees with one (1) to two (2) year's service covered by this Agreement shall be two (2) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon five per cent (5%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or eighty (SO) hours at the hourly rate of the employees regular job. whichever is the greater.
Section 2 : Two to Seven Years' Service
The annual vacation for employees with two (2) to seven (7} years' service covered by this Agreement shall be three (3) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon seven per cent (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and twenty (120) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Section 1 herein.
Section 3:	Seven to Fifteen Years' Service
s>
b)


b)
The annual vacation for employee with seven (7) to fifteen (IS) years' service covered by this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon nine per cent (9%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1 and 2 herein.
a)
Section 4:	Fifteen to Twenty-tour Years' Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with fifteen {15} to twenty-four (24) years’ service covered by this Agreement shall be five weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon eleven per cent (11%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred (200) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 6 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided Cor in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided Cor in Sections 1, 2, or 3.
O ’
Section S:	Twenty-four to Thirty Years' Service	'
a)	The annual vacation for enployees with twenty-€our (24) to thirty (30) years' service covered by this Agreement shall be six (6) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon thirteen percent (13%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of
* entitlement, or two hundred and forty (240) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided €or in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Section 1, 2, 3, or 4.
Section 6:	Thirty Pear's Service
a)	The annual vacation €or employees with thirty (30) years' service covered by this Agreement shall be seven weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon fifteen percent (15%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided €or in Sections 1/ 2, 3, 4, or 5.
Section 7. Vacation Pay on Termination
An employee whose employment is terminated shall receive vacation
pay at the appropriate percentage of the wages or salary earned
during the period of entitlement in accordance with the employee's
years of service.

... ,-n
i
Section 8t Vacation Time
a)	Vacations for enployees shall be taken at such time as nutually agreed upon by the Shop Committee and the company when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired.
All earned vacation mist be taken. section a Payment of Vacation Pay
a)	The- calculation and conparison of the vacation pay amounts developed by the percentage of gross wages method and the hours times the regular job rate method will be completed and the greater amount paid to the employee within fourteen (14) days of the common vacation pay cutoff or the enployee's anniversary date. The Company's present cut-off or anniversary date method shall be continued unless a change is agreed upon between the Company and the local Union.
b)	For the .purposes of this Article, the rate of the employee’s regular job will be the rate of the employee’s regular job at the date of the common vacation cut-off date or the employee’s anniversary date, as the case may be.
c)	In the case of a pieceworker. the rate of the employee’s regular job will be determined by computing the enployee's hourly average earnings for the days actually worked during the pay period immediately preceding the common cut-off date or the enployee’s anniversary date, as the case may be.
d)	On the date when an enployee conpletes one (1/ two (2)/ seven (7)# fifteen (1-S), twenty-four{24), or thirty (30) years* service and where there is a comnon cut-of £ date
- for all employees in the operation, the enployee will receive:
i) In the case of one (1) year, one per cent (1%) of his/her gross earnings between the date of enployment and the date of the last comnon cut-off date:
ii)	In the case of two (2), seven f7), fifteen (15)» twenty-four (24), or thirty (30) years, two per cent (2%) of his/her gross earnings between the date of his/her last anniversary date and the date of the last common cut-off date.
23
Section 10:	vacation Pay - Percentage of Waoes Method
The following shall be considered as days actually worked for
determining vacations with pay for an employee after one (1)
continuous year of employment:
a)	Absence on Workers' Compensation up to a period of one (1) year, provided that the employee returns to his or her employment.
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1) year, provided that the employee returns to his or her employment. The employer shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 6.
d)	Absence due to time served on jury duty, including Coroner’s jury, or time served as a crown witness or Coroner's witness in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 7.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the employer in writing shall be credited towards entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 11:	Qualifications for Vacation Pay
-■ Regular Job Rate Method
a]	i) In order for an employee to qualify for the amount
generated by the hours times the regular job rate method, the employee must have worked a minimum of fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in the employee's first year of service and a minimum of one thousand (1,000) hours during the employee's succeeding years of entitlement.
ii) Where there is a common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in i) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeeding year, ill) Where there is no common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee's anniversary date i n one year to his/her anniversary date i n the succeeding year.
b)	For purposes of computing the requisite hours, the following will be included:
i) All hours worked; ii) Statutory Holiday hours:
24
iii)	Jury and Crown witness duty;
iv)	Bereavement leave;
v)	Vacation hours:
vi)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of an accident recognized as condensable by the Workers Condensation Board and suffered during the course of endloyment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee returns to his/her enployment.
vii)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of a non-occupational accident or illness, shall be Considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that at the time of the accident or illness the employee has been on the payroll for not less than one (11 year and that he/she returns to his/her enployment. It is understood that the enployer nay require that the employee provide a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
viii)	Time lost as a result of layoff shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for requisite hours;
ix)	Employees who report to work and who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any such shift for purposes of computing requisite hours under this Section. Any employee who qualifies for call time in a day shall receive credit under this Section for eight (8) hours or credit for the hours for which wages were paid, whichever is the greater.
x)	All hours worked in more than one (1} division of the parent company as a result of transfer car layoff.
Section 12s Employment Standards Act
Part 4 - Annual Vacation of the Employment Standards Act, S.B.C., 1980, c. 10, and amendments thereto, except where varied or modified by the provisions herein, shall become a pact of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XI - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Section 1:
a)	All hourly-rated employees who work on New Year's Day. Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be paid rate and one half for all hours so worked.
25
b) In the event one of the above Statutory Holidays falls on a Sunday, the previous Friday or the following Monday shall be observed as the Holiday. In the event that one of the within named Statutory Holidays falls on a Saturday it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or succeeding Monday as agreed between the Company and the Shop Committee.
In case of a maintenance employee where one of the Statutory Holidays is observed on his or her rest day, he or she shall have a day off without pay in lieu^ thereof at a mutually agreeable time.
>0
a) All Hourly rated and piece work employees who qualify for the paid holiday under the conditions set out below shall be paid for the holiday at their regular job rate of pay for their paid regular work schedule. The Parties hereto agree that the paid Statutory Holidays shall be as follows:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Christmas Day
British Columbia Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Boring Day
b)
c)
Piece work employees shall receive pay for the Statutory Holidays for which they qualify, based on the daily average earnings for the days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) working days.
All hourly-rated employees working on a paid holiday shall receive rate and one—half for hours worked on sucn day in addition to the holiday pay to which they may be entitled.
d)	To qualify for Statutory Holidays, an employee must have been on the company payroll for the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the Statutory Holiday and must have worked his/her last regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his or her absence is due to a compensable occupational injury or illness, which occurred within six (6) months of the holiday, or the employee is on authorized leave of absence in accordance with section 2 or 3 of Article IX.
e)	In the case of illness or injury, the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
26
f)	Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, the employee mist have worked one {1) day before and one (L) day after the holiday, both of which'Oust fall within a period of sixty (60) calendar days.
Section 3:
a)	In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday# Wednesday# or Thursday# and where the Company and Shop committee mutually agree# the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
b)	At the option of the Company# but whenever possible by mutual agreement with the Shop committee# either Good Friday or Easter Monday shall become the designated Easter holiday# and the Company shall notify its employees of the designation at least one (1) week prior to the said holiday.
c)	When a Statutory Holiday falls on a Friday, employees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, by mitual agreement between the Company and the Plant Coimdttee, may work on the Friday Statutory Holiday at the straight time job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday.
/ Section 4:	Personal Floating Holiday
/This section becomes effective September 1st. 1978. This Personal Floating Holiday is in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day, but this section shall come into operation on its effective date even if Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed.
a)	Personal Floating Holiday
Regular full-time employees will be granted one (1) Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of this Agreement, to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the corrpany, so there will be no loss of production.
b)	Qualifying Conditions
When the Personal Floating Holiday Is taken, an eirployee shall be paid for the said holiday at his regular job rate of pay for his regular work schedule, subject to the following conditions:
i)	A new employee mist have been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday.
27
ii)	An employee will not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for more than nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury.
ill) An enployee shall apply on an approved form at least seven (7) days in advance, for his/her Personal Floating Holiday. The enployee shall receive notice of the disposition of his/her request a mininum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday.
iv)	If an enployee is required to work on his/her Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date has been designated for such a holiday, the employee shall be paid overtime for such work at the rate of time and one-half. The employee will then be entitled to take the holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon.
v)	Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 15th of each contract year will be scheduled by management.
vi)	A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on an employee’s regular rest day.
vii)	Where an enployee chooses Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday, straight time rates will apply.
ARTICLE XII - SAFETY AKD HEALTH
Section 1:
The Conpany and Employees will co-operate to assure safe working methods and conditions and devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon to be provided by the Company.
Section 2t
The Management of every operation shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee of four (4) to six (€) members according to the size of the operation. Members of the Comnittee shall be designated to equal number by the Employees and the Employer. Employee representatives shall be regular employees in the operation with at least one (1) year's experience. *
Section 3;
Safety meetings will be held during working hours where possible Employee’s time will not be deducted for attending such meetings or investigations into accidents. It is recognized that in multishift and in logging operations, meetings will occur outside
28
of working hours for certain employees. When meetings take place outside of an employee's working hours, he or she will be compensated at bis car her regular hourly straight time rate of pay for the tiae spent attending such meetings: two (2) hour limit.
Section 4 s
Effective July 1, 1989, an XWA-Forest Industry Safety and Health Research Program will be established on the following general principles:
a)	The Plan will be jointly trusteed.
b)	The Plan is to be funded on the basis of an Industry contribution of one-half cent (1/2 cent) per hour per employee per hour worked, effective July 1, 1989.
gj The trustees will be appointed in the first year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish objectives and operating and administrative procedures.
ARTICLE XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDPRE
section Is
A Grievance Committee shall be elected to consist of two (2) to seven (7) employees elected by the Onion members employed in the operation covered by this Agreement. Members of this Grievance Committee shall have completed their probationary period with the Company and shall have at least one (1) year's experience in the type of operation.
Meetings of the Grievance Committee shall, except in cases of emergency, and wherever possible, be held outside of working hours. In the event that a grievance should arise it shall be dealt with in following manner, without stoppage of work:
Step 1:	The individual employee involved with or
without the Job Steward shall first take up the Batter with the Foreman directly in charge of the work within fourteen (14) days of the said grievance.
Step 2 If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be reduced to writing by both Parties when the same employee ana the Committee shall take up the Grievance with the Plant Superintendent. If desired the Onion Business Agent shall accompany the Committee.
Step 3:
29
If the grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Local Onion and the Management.
Step 4:	If a satisfactory settlement is not then
reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
Section 2
If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage under Steps 2, 3 or 4 within fourteen (14) days after the completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. The fourteen (14) day limit may be extended by mutual consent of both Parties.
ARTICLE XI7 - RIGHT OF REFERENCE
section 1
If the two Parties fail to agree upon an interpretation of the Agreement, either Party shall have the right to refer the matter to the Joint Industry Committee, hereinafter provided, and if either party does make such reference, the other Party must accept the reference.
Section 2:
The Joint Industry Coimhttee shall consist of three (3) representatives selected by the IWA - CANADA and three (3) representatives selected by the Employers represented in the negotiations of this Agreement, and the two coimhttees may be represented by one or more Parties selected by them.
Section 3:
When an interpretation of the Agreement has been referred to the Joint Coimhttee, this reference shall be for the period of forty** eight (48) hours or longer by rrutual consent of the Parties to this Agreement. In case the Joint Coimhttee agrees upon a recommendation or interpretation, this shall be furnished in writing to the Union involved and to the Ehployer.
Section 4:
In the event the Joint Committee members disagree, all the facts in the case as found by the Union and the Onion members of the Joint Coimhttee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submitted to the Employer and to the Onion meirbers involved. The facts in the case as found by the Employer and the eirployer meirbers of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing and given to the Onion member employees for their information.
Section 5:
30
If a satisfactory interpretation of the point in question is not
reached, either Party nay refer the question to arbitration as
hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE XV ~ INTERPRETATION AND ARBITRATION
Section 1:	Interpretation
a)	In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation of this Agreenent, which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the natter shall be deternined by interpretation in the following manner:
b)	Either Party nay be notify the other Party in writing by Registered Hail on the question or questions to be interpreted. After receiving such notice and statement, each of the Parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreter selected by the Parties.
c)	The Parties agree to
as the Interpreter for the duration of this Agreement.
d)	In the event the Interpreter named in c) above is unable through illness or absence from the Province of British Columbia for any reason whatsoever, to act as
Interpreter, the Parties agree that ____________________
shall act in his place.
e)	The decision of the Interpreter shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Parts.
Section 2 Arbitration
a)	In the case of a dispute arising under this Agreement, except as to Interpretations of this Agreement, which the parties are unable to settle themselves, as set out in Article XIII, the matter shall be determined by Arbitration in the following manner:
b)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by Registered Mail of the question to be arbitrated. After receiving such notice and statement, each of the Parties will then refer the matter in writing to the arbitrator who has been selected by the Parties.
c)	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Parts.
31
Id)	The Parties agree to mutually select a panel of Chairmen
for single Arbitration who will act for the duration of this Agreement.
e)	If the Arbitrators selected by the Parties are unable through illness or absence from the Province of British Columbia for any reason whatsoever to act as Arbitrators, the Parties agree to meet and attenpt to select a mutually satisfactory Arbitrator. If unable to select one which is mutually satisfactory. the Parties further agree to request the Honourable Minister of Labour of the Province British Columbia to appoint an Arbitrator.
f)	If the Arbitrator finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, such enployee will be reinstated with all 'his or her rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall further make the determination on the amount of lost pay to be paid to the enployee.
g} The Parties of the First and Second Parts will each bear one-half (one-half) of the expenses of interpretations or arbitrations including the salary of the Interpreter or Arbitrator plus any stenographic, secretarial and rent expenses which may be incurred in respect of such proceeding.
h) Any Arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held in the City of William's Lake or such other place as may be decided by the Arbitrator.
i) A Committee shall be established to develop and inplement a system of expedited arbitration of grievances. The chairman of this Committee will be E. Allan Hope, Q. C. The Committee shall report to the parties not later than December 31, 1984.
ARTICLE XVI ~ GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
a)	The Union will, within sixty (60) days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Conpany in writing of the members of the Shop Committee. The Union or Shop Committee will inform the Conpany in writing when any member change takes place on the said Comnittee. No member of the Shop Committee will be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is carried out.
b)	For the purposes of this Agreement, when the word 'Committee" is used it shall mean Shop, Camp, Kill or Plant Committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
32
c)	Official 'Union representatives shall obtain access to the Company's operations for the purposes of this Agreement by written permission which will be granted by the Company on request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
Section 2:	Ho Strike Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The union agrees that it will not cause, promote, sanction or authorize any strike, sitdown, sympathetic strike, or other interference with work by the enployees except according to the Labour Relations Act (British Colunbia).
Section 3 Wo lockout Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The conpany agrees it will not create or institute any lockout cf the enployees with respect to any dispute between the Conpany and the Onion or the Company and its enployees except according to the Labour Relations Act (British Columbia).
Section 4s
a)	It is1 agreed that the Union may refuse to handle materials produced by a strike bound firm.
b)	The Union shall have the right to respect another Union's legal picket line.
Section 5 Working Foremen
Enployees outside the bargaining unit will not perform work that is normally done by enployees in the bargaining unit. However, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting foremen from doing work for purposes of instruction. provided by so doing a lay-off of bargaining unit employees does not result, or in the case of an emergency when regular enployees ace not available, provided that every reasonable effort is made to find a replacement.
Section 6:	Permanent Plant Closure - Severance Pay
b)
Effective July 1/ 1982/ enployees terminated by the company because of permanent closure of a manufacturing plant shall be entitled to severance pay equal to one (1) week's pay for each year of continuous service and thereafter in incrementaof completed months of service.
Where a plant is relocated and the enployees involved are not required to relocate their place of residence or are not terminated by the employer as a result of the Plant relocation, they Shall not be entitled to severance pay under this Article.
33
Effective July 1, 1982, sixty (60) days notice of closure will be provided.	^
Section 7:	Logging Contractors	c -
a)	The Conpany will not enter int ny logging contract which would have the effect of discontinuing the employment of any regular logging employee with the Conpany.
b)	The Parties hereto share a mutual interest in the elimination of unfair labour practices as defined in the Labour Code of British Colunbia Act.
It is acknowledged that the najority of logging is performed by contractors and sub-contractors. It is therefore agreed that a Joint Standing Connittee be established to review reports of unfair labour practices whenever they nay occur in our area of operations. The Committee will consist of three (3) representatives of the i.w.a. and three (3) representatives of Industry.
It shall be the responsibility of the Connittee to discuss any instances of an unfair labour practice, as defined under the Labour Code of British Colunbia, with the parties involved and attenpt to discourage continuation of such practices.
The conpany agrees it will not enter into a contract with a contractor or sub-contractor who continues to commit unfair labour practices as defined under the Labour Code of British Colunbia Act for which the contractor or subcontractor has been found In contravention of said Act by the Department of Labour.
Section 8; Welders
Enployees enployed as Welders who are required to renew their Welding Ticket shall be granted up to five (5) day's paid Leave of Absence to attend school for instruction. The Conpany shall pay the cost of instruction and exanination.
Section 9:	Balancing of Production
The Union agrees to provide a letter to the Conpanies setting forth the same wording as agreed to at the Coast.
Section 10:	Planennan Training
It is agreed that the parties to the Agreement will meet jointly to discuss and inplement a Planerman's Training Program.
section 11:	Tools
34
a)	The company will repair or replace those Tradesmen's tools that are damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties.
b)	The Company will make available Tradesmen's tools required upon the introduction of the metric system.
c)	During the introduction of equipment which requires the use or metric tools, the Company will make metric tools available at no cost, for use by Tradesmen.
35
Section 12:	First Aid Training
Employees of the Company who, by mutual agreement, train or retrain for Industrial First Aid Certificates, will be compensated in the following manner:
a)	The Company will pay the cost of the course tuition and materials required by those employees who pass the course;
b)	The Company will pay lost time wages to designated First Aid Attendants.
ARTICLE X7I1 - HEALTH AND WF1FARF, Section 1:	Provincial Board of Trustees
Weldwood of Canada Limited, together with Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Canfor Limited and the IWA - CANADA, agree to establish one set of trustees for the purpose of developing a common text, a common trust agreement, and a common employee booklet for the six Health and Welfare Plans, covering Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, and Weekly Indemnity.
The Parties agree that a Joint Committee, representing Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA - CANADA, will be established to study the most effective method of administration of the Plans, reporting to the Parties no later than July 1, 1984.
Section 2: Weldwood - I.W.A. Board of Trustees
The Board of Trustees, composed of two (2) members representing I.W.A. Regional Council No. 1 and two (2) members representing the Company, are responsible for the administration of the I.W.A. -Weldwood Health and Welfare Plan. The Trustees are also responsible for the selection of carrier, funding, adjudication of compassionate appeals, and Health and Welfare problems directly related to the Plan.
Section 3:	Medical
a) The Company agrees to provide medical coverage for its employees by participating in the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia.
b) The Company agrees to provide Extended Health Benefits, including Hospitalization coverage up to a maximum of $8.50 per day, to its employees by participating in a plan entered into between the Company and an appropriate carrier.
Effective July 1, 1982, a Vision Care program will be instituted to provide payment up to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period for charges incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription.	a	~	0 <>
^ f)	“7
Section 4:	Insurance Coverage	Q . .
The following coverage will be provided by the Company on industry-wide basis with a common carrier:
a)
Group Life follows:
Insurance for each qualified employer as
*)
effective July 1, 1988, $35,000.00 effective July 1, 1989, $40,000.00 effective July 1, 1990, $45,000.00
Accidental Death and Dismemberment qualified employee as follows:


a Y>
Insurance for each
A
effective July 1, effective July 1, effective July 1,
1988,	$35,000.00
1989,	$40,000.00
1990,	$45,000.00
e-
c)	Weekly Indemnity as follows:
M ^zv/Effective July 1, 1988, in the amount of three hundred 1 ftd	fifty-six dollars ($356.00) per week for fifty-two
Cm	weeks; effective July 17^X989, in the amount of three
1*1 1 ^ .hundred and seventy-six dollars ($376.00) per week for fifty-two weeks; effective July i> 199a-, in the amount ''%$ ’ f of three hundred and ninety-six dollars ($396.00) per . - L we*^ for fifty-two weeks, weekly indemnity to commence * ‘ from the first day of accident and the sixth day of *	illness? the first day where illness results in
^ v a “i ** /^hospitalization as a bed patient and-where work time is Qw '	lost due to surgery. Absences due to the same or related
i ^ - a f causes will be considered one continuous absence unless UCfvi •} 7 {/ the employee returns to full-time work for a four week » * f	period.
The Union agrees that if the Company maintains Weekly :	Indemnity Plan benefits which will meet the standard
an
\
37
requirements for full premium reduction for "wage loss replacement plan under the Unemployment Insurance Act*, the employees" share of the premium reduction is retained as payment in kind in the provisions of the Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits. - t
Dental Plan
Section 5
A Dental Plan will be provided on the following general principles:
i} Basic Dental Services (PlanA) -Planpays80* of approved schedule of fees.
li) Prosthetics, crowns and bridges (Plan 8)	-
Plan pays 'iQ\ of approved schedule of fees.
ILL) Orthodontic (Plan C) - Plan pays 50% of approved schedule of fees (lifetime maximum $2*000*00).
Section 6:	General Principles
a)	Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by the Company.
b)
Participation in the plan is to be a condition of employment.
c)	Any new employee who has not worked in covered employment in the last eighteen months will be eligible to become a covered employee on the first day of the month following completion of the probationary period. However, for such employee coverage for the Msdic-al Services Plan and for the	Health Benefit will
apply on the first day of the month following the date of employment.
<i) Coverage will be portable in all units covered by collective agreements between members of Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Cant'or Limited, Northwc-od Pulp and Timber Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the Industry.
38
e) Coverage during lay-off will be provided as follows:
i} Employees with more than three (3) months' seniority but less than one {1} year's seniority will be three (3) months.
ii) Employees with one (1) or more year's seniority will be six (6) months.
f)	In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there mist be a return to regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he/she is employed for 10 working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
Also, an employee who returns to work for at least one working day and less than 10 working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any layoff coverage to which he/she was entitled, i£ the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
g)	There will be no duplication of Weekly Indemnity and Pension Plan payments.
h)	Weekly Indemnity coverage will be eliminated for an
employee on an extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 41:	Compassionate Leave, provided
however that such employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity coverage on the agreed-upon day of return to work* In order to qualify for this coverage the employee must have returned to his/her place of residence in British Columbia unless his/her disability required him/her to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements of the -claims adjudication carrier. In such case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurred during extended leave of absence, the Trustees have the right to review certain circumstances.
i)	Employees on extended leave of absence under Leave of
Absence f Section 4:	Compassionate Leave will pay their
own premiums for the Medical Services Plan, Extended Health Benefit, and Dental Plan, while the premiums for Croup Life Insurance and Accidental heath and Dismemberment Insurance will be paid by the employer during such extended leave of absence.
ARTICLE XVIII ~ LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAM a) The Plan will become effective July 1, 1982.
b) The Plan is to be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing,basis with contributions of 20 cents pet ~hour* per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute 10 cents and the employee will contribute 10 cents commencing July 1, 1988.
c)	A Board of Trustees will be constituted with equal representation from the Union and the Industry, to be responsible for establishing the terms of the Plan and the on-going administration.
d)	The Trustees will select a qualified actuary to assist them and to ensure the establishment of actuarially sound reserves to fund the benefits provided by the Plan.
e)	The Trustees will enter into a Trust Agreement which will include provision for a procedure to settle any major dispute that may arise with regard to the provisions of the Plan.
ARTICLE XIX ~ I.W.A.
Section 1:
FOREST INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN S)
The Parties agree to establish a Pension Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement of the Pension Sub-Conmittee dated August 17th. 1977.
ySf „
Section 2:
The Industry contribution to the Pension Plan of one collar and twenty-five cents ($1.25) per hour per enployee per hour worked, which became effective July 1, 1986, will be increased by forty- , five cents (45 cents) per hour effective July 1, 1988.
ARTICLE XX - JOB TRAINING	!
"'A '
Job Training Program will be in accordance with Supplement no. 2 * which is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement. ”"■*
ARTICLE MI- APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
a)	Apprenticeship Training Programs will be in accordance with Supplements No. 3A and 3B which are attached hereto and form part of this Agreement.
b)	When implemented, the Apprenticeship Training Programs shall provide that single persona undergoing training shall receive their wages, less any sum paid to them by the appropriate Government authorities. Harried persons shall receive their wages, less the amount paid by the
Provincial Government authorities to single persons; the intent being that the greater amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to narried persons shall not become a benefit to the Company.
c\ In cases where the apprentice is in receipt of a subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities, the employer will pay the apprentice, while attending vocational School, the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
ARTICLE XXII - TECHNOLOGICAL CHAMGE Section 1:	Advance Botification
The Conpany shall notify the Shop committee and the Union not less than six (6) months in advance of intent to institute material changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or laying^off of employees. /
section 2 Severance Pav	—-"
Employees discharged, laid-off* or displaced from their regular job because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay ot one {ITweek’s pay for each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks' pay. This section shall not apply to employees covered by Section 3 b) below.
section 3; Rate Adjustment
a) An employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of mechanization*	<-hjny or automation will
receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of fi /*?/*. the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a l/ f further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate p Y* of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply. However* such employees will have the option of terminating their employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 2 above* providing they exercise this option within the above referred to six (6) month period.
41
b)	Following an application of a) above, where an employee, is set back to a lower paid job because of an application of Article VIII - Seniority brought on by mechanization, technological change or automation, he/she will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period, the rate of his/her new regular job will apply.
ARTICLE XXIII ~ PLYWOOD EVALUATION
Section 1? Implementation
The Plywood Job Evaluation program for the Plywood Plant at Merrill & Wagner Division shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Supplement No. 3 which is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement.
Section 2:	Point Range and Increment
All jobs in Grade One, the point range of which is 0 to 81* shall be paid the minimum rate for common labour as provided in Article V# Section 1 d). The point range fear subsequent grades shall be ten (10/ i.e. Grade Two (82-91), Grade Three (92-101)/ etc. The wage increment curve for the plywood industry is as follows:
Effective	Effective	Effective
Grade	June 15/ 1988 June 15, 1989 June 15, 1990
Level	Per Hour________Per Hour_________Per Hour
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16 17
$ 15.335 15.43
15.55 15.65 15.81 15.93 16.10 16.25 16.40
16.56 16.72 16.86 17.03 17.22 17.38
17.57 17.76
$ 16.18 16.28 16.41 16.51 16.68 16.81 16.99 17.14 17.30 17.47 17,64 17.79 17.97 18.17 18.34 18.54 18.74
$ 17.07 17.18 17.31
17.42
17.60 17.73 17.92 18.08 18.25
18.43
18.61
18.77 18.96 19.17 19.35 19.56
19.77
42
IS
19
29
21
22
23
24
25
26 27
17.95
18.14
18.38
18.64
18.88
19.13
19.37
19.62
19.87
20.11
18.94
19.14
19.39
19.67
19.92
20.18
20.44
20.70
20.96
21.22
19.98
20.19
20.46
20.75
21.02
21.29
21.56
21.84
22.11
22.39
The general wage increase provided for in Article V, Section 1 has been incorporated into these rates.
Section 3:	Red Circle Jobs
Incumbents in job categories for which the rate is reduced as a result of job evaluation (hereinafter referred to as "Fed Circle Jobs") shall continue at the original rate subject to the provisions of the appropriate supplement (Plywood Job Evaluation, Section 10 * Red Circle Jcbs).
ARTICLE XXTV - SAFETY EQUIPMENT
Section 1
m e Company shall replace such equipment at no cost to the employee when these articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair and when they are required by the company or the Workers' Compensation Board:
i)	Aprons
ii) Hard Hats and Liners ill) Eye, Ear and Hose Protective Equipment
Section 2:
Where the following articles of equipment are required to be used by the Company or by the Workers' Compensation Board, the Company shall, at no cost to the employee:
i) Supply new employees with the articles of equipment as
required.
ii)	Supply employees moving to another department with the articles Of equipment they require and they do not have at the time of the move, and
iii)	Replace articles of equipment '/hen those articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair.
43
That is to say:
1) Aprons
ii)	Hard Eats and Liners
iii)	Eye, Ear and Nose Protective Equipment
iv)	Gloves
Notwithstanding the foregoing. all articles of equipment to be replaced only when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair; otherwise the replacement will be at the expense of the employee.
Section 3:
Where the Company has been supplying safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the enployee on the effective date of this Agreement it will continue to do so at no cost to the enployee.
Section 4:
The enployer shall make coveralls available and maintain same for use by End Sprayers, Panel Sprayers, Oilers, Filer-Grinderoen, Power Bouse employees, and Tradesmen.
Section 5:
An enployee who is required to wear caulk boots by the Workers' Compensation Board shall receive annually a one hundred dollar ($100.00) caulk boot allowance.
i) if he/she has six (6) months or more seniority, or ii) upon obtaining six (6) months seniority,
iii)	Seasonal lay-offs shall not interfere with the qualifying period herein.
ARTICLE XXV - TOOL INSURANCE
The Company at its own expense shall insure for damage or loss caused by fire/ or flood/ the tools of its employees which are required in the performance of their work. This provision for tool insurance shall also apply to loss by theft where the tools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of $50.00 in respect of each employee's claim.
ARTICLE XXVI - FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
Firefighting Agreement will be in accordance with Supplement ND. 4 which is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement.
44
ARTICLE XXVII - SAWMILL RATE DETERMIKATIOH PROGRAM
Section 1:	Responsibility, Inplementation,
Continuity and Administration
The IWA - CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations Limited agree to implement and continue the provisions of this Article of the Coast Master Agreement and any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement as administered by Regional Council No. 1 of the International Woodworkers of America and Forest Industrial Relations Limited shall be responsible for all aspects of the program.
Section 2. Purpose and Method
The purpose of the Program shall be the ranking of applicable hourly-paid categories and placing them in groups according to their relative value within the B. C. coast Sawmill Industry by using a method of agreed-upon benchmark categories and related job descriptions.
Where new or significantly changed jobs do not fit an existing benchmark job description, the Parties agree to group such jobs by comparison to existing jobs where possible, in order to keep benchmark job descriptions to a miniwiim
The Parties agree that the Industry Proposal as per point (5) Appendix No. 4 of the Memorandum of Agreement dated August 14, 1981 in respect of benchmark job descriptions and groupings will be implemented* Rate increases, if any, will be effective June IS, 1981. No incuxrbent's rate shall be reduced as a result of the inplementation of this Proposal.
Section 3; Application
a)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall be carried out at the Local Union - Local Management level in accordance with the provisions of this Article and the provisions of any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement.
b)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall apply to all hourly paid categories in the sawmill industry except for those categories which have been excluded by nutual agreement between the
I.W.A, Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
C) Sawmill Rate Determination shall not supercede existing in-plant agreements, signed on esc before Noverrber 3,
1976, at the Local union - Local Management level.
45
Section 4:	Development/ uniformity and Co-ordination
In order to ensure uniform application, the Program shall be developed and co-ordinated by the B.C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board, consisting of an equal nuxrber of representatives from the Union and the Industry as follows:
For the Union:
One (1) Officer representing IWA - CANADA and three (3) Officers representing the I.W.A. Coast Local Unions, assisted by one (1) Technical Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by Regional Council NO. 1 of the I.W.A.
the Industry:
One (1) representative of Forest Industrial Relations Limited and three (3) representatives of the 8.C. Coast Sawmill Industry, assisted by one (1) Technical Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
Section 5 Procedures
a)	The Sawmill Rate Determination Program shall be administered jointly on a day-to-day basis by the respective Technical Advisors, subject to the approval of the B. C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board.
b)	Any agreement reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union - Local Management level shall be final and binding on the Parties.
c)	If no agreement can be reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union - Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the Board.
d)	If the Board is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application
m received from the Local Union - Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the I.W.A, Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited in accordance with Section 1 of this Article.
46
Section 6:	Job Analysis Wage Curve
Group
Level
Effective June IS r 1986 Per Hour
Effective June IS, 1987 Per Hour
Effective June IS, 1990 Per Hour
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22 23
$ IS.335
15.45
15.60
15.73 15.88 16.11
16.35 16. S7 16.81 17.10 17.43
17.73 18.04
18.36 18.66 18.97
19.29
19.60 19.90
20.29 20.67 21.06
21.45
$ 16.18 16.30 16.46 16.60
16.75
17.00 17.25 17.48 17.73 18.04 18.39 18.71 19.03 19.37 19.69
20.01 20.35 20.68 20.99 21.41 21.81 22.22 22.63
S 17.07
17.20 17.37 17.51 17.67 17.94
18.20
18.44 18.71 19.03
19.40	«■***
19.74
20.08
20.44 20.77 21.11 21.47 21.82 22.14 22.59 23.01
23.44 23.87
The general wage increase provided for in Article V, Section 1 has been incorporated into these rates.
section 7:	Incumbent's Rate
No incumbent's cate shall be reduced as a result of the implementation and/or continued application of the Program.
The Parties further agree that details of the Sawmill Rate Determination Program may be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end of each three (3) month period from the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXVIII - CONTRACT IMG OPT
a)	The Company will not contract out any work that is performed by employees in the Bargaining Unit at the effective date of this agreement.
b)	Current practices in operations shall be agreed on with the Local Union in writing. Until such time as agreement is reached the above clause (A) only will apply.
ARTICLE XXIX - DORATIQM OF AGBEiTTMirnT
Section 1;
The Parties hereto agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the first dav of July 1988 to the 30th day of June
fgwaM1"	"-irarw»f1 Ya	■wwi»■ uiuhliu ■
Witten notice of contrary intention is given by the Parties. The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the Bead Office of the Party of the First Part or at the Looal Office of the Local Officers of the Union, Party of the Second Part, at least four (4) months prior to the expiry of any yearly period. If no agreement is reached at the expiration of this .extract and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time that a subsequent Agreement is reached, or until negotiations are discontinued by either Party.
Section 2:
The Parties hereto agree that the operation of Section 66 (2) of the Labour Code of British Coluxrbia Act 1973 is excluded from the Master Agreement.
FOR:
Weldwood of Canada Limited	IWA CANADA,
(Williams Lake Division)	Local 1-425, C.L.C
Clean-up Grade 2
46
SOPPLEMEMT MO. 1 WAGE SCALES
CAXEGQRIES IN PLYWOOD EVALUATION June 15/88 June 15/89 $ 16.18 $ 16.28

$ 15.335 S 15.43
Dunnage - Saw Operator Dryer Feeder
Grade 3	$	IS.55
Car Shorer Spreader Washer strapper
Clean-Up/Lathe Charger Relief
Grade 4	$	IS.65
Green Chain operator Lathe Charger Attendant Chipper Attendant
Grade 5	$	15.81
Patchline Patcher Greenchain Offbearer/
Clipper Attendant Greenchain Offbearer/
Stacker Attendant Dryer Grader Offbearer Steam Chest Attendant Strapping Machine Operator/
Plywood
Grade 6	$ 15.93
Patch Line Patcher (Synthetic Patch)
Sheet Feeder - Lay-up-Line
Grade 7	$ 16.10
$ 16.41
$ 16.51
$ 16.66
A
June 15/90 $ 17.07 $ 17.18
$ 17.tT"
$ 17.42
$ 17.60
$ 17.92
Grade 1
S 16.99
49
grade B	$ 16.25
Core Feeder/Layup Line Forklift Operator * Finish Bid Forklift Shipping 19 Sheet Feeder
Grade 9	$ 16.40
Forklift Operator -Veneer Processing
Forklift Operator - Green End Forklift Operator - Finish Ehd and Shipping
Chip-N-Saw Operator - (Coretnill)
Grade 10	$ 16.56
Glue Mixer Barker Operator Assistant Lathe operator Log Saw Operator VK #2 Warehouseman
Grade 11	$	16.72
Forklift Operator/Block supply Log Saw Operator VK #1
Grade 12	$	16.86
core Layer - Auto Spreader Line Sizing Unit 4 Grade Line operator Forklift Operator/Block Supply (Graveyard)
Grade 13	$	17.03
Log Saw 6 Barker Operation
Grade 14	$	17.22
Hot Press Operator Dryer Operator Sander/T 4 G/Forklift
Grade 18	$ 17.95
$ 17.14
S 17.30
$ 17.47
S 17.64 $ 17.79
$ 17.97 $ 18.17
$ 18.94
$ 18.08 $ 18.25
$ 18.43
S 13.61 $ 18.77
$ 18.96 S 19.17
$ 19.98
Auto Spread Line Operator
so
Grade 26	$ 19.87	$ 20.96	$ 22.11
Lathe Operator
WAGE SCALE B
CATEGORIES IN SAWMILL RATE DETERHIHATIOH
June 1S/88
Group 1	$ 15.335
Clean-up Piler
Group 2	$	15.45
Chip Bin Attendant Sorter Stacker Stick Layer (Some Controls)
Group 3	$	15.60
Breakdown Hoist/Planeroill Planer Chain Puller Barker Deck Chaser (Start/stop controls)
4	$	IS.73
Strip c Lath Machine Operator Chipper Feeder
End Loader Operator/Planermill Car Loader
Group *	$	15.88
Eliminator
Semi-Automatic Package Press operator Sorter Bin Operator
Group 6	8	16.11
Sorter Stacker Operator fl c #2 Trimner (Rotating)
r.ronn n	$	16.35
Tailsavyer
Double End Trimner/
Select/Planermill
June 15/89 $ 16.18
$ 16.30
$ 16.46
$ 16.60
$ 16.75
S 17.00
S 17.2S
June 15/90 $ 17.07
§ 17.20
$ 17.37
$ 17.51
$ 17.67
$ 17.94
$ 18.20
A
SI
Log Sorter (Bandmill Side) Planer Feeder
Automatic Barker Attendant/ 24" Cambio
Automatic Barker Attendant/ 27” Nicholson
Group 8	$ 15.57
Forklift Operator
Group 9
S 16.81
Planner Feeder-Setup Multiple Log saw Cut-Off Forklift Operator/Kiln Cars
Group 10
$ 17.10
Log Scaler/weighman/
Licensed
Chipping Edger/Ciccular Gang Saw Attendant
Group 11	$ 17.43
Equipment Operator -Yard Maintenance Chip'n'Saw operation
Group 12	$ 17.73
Log Loader Operator/Cat 966 Log Loader Operator/Cat 980
Group 1«	$ 18.36
Planerman fl
G.S.L.A. Grader
Io9 Loader/Letourneau (L-20)
Group IS	$ 18.66
Crane Operator/Repair A Maintenance Responsibility
Croup 20	$ 20.29
Band Headrig Sawyer
S 17*48 $ 17*73
$ 18.04
$ 18.39
$ 18.71 $ 19.37
$ 19,69 $ 21,41
$ 18.44
$ 18.71
$ 19.03
8 19.40
S 19*74
$ 20.44
$ 20.77
$ 22.59
L Trades - Manufacturing
WAGE SCALE C HOW-EVALUATED CATEGORIES
June 15/88 June 15/89 June 15/90
Carpenter Electrician Heavy Duty Mechanic Millwright
Pipefiitter/Steaafitter Journeyman (with certificate ) $ Journeyman
Improver (3rd Year complete) Improver (2nd Year complete) Helper (1st Year complete) Eelper
20.015
19.805
17.495
17.00
16.565
16.325
$ 21.115 20.905 18.455 17.935 17.475 17.225
$ 22.275 22.065 19.47 18.92 18.435 18.17
Machinist
Journeyman (with certificate)$ Journeyman
Improver (3rd Year complete) Improver (2nd Year complete) Helper (1st Year complete) Eelper
20.015
19.805
17.575
17.07
16.645
16.41
$ 21.115 20.905 18.54
18.01
17.56
17.31S
$ 22.275 22.065 19.56 19.00 18.525 18.265
Welder (Weldwood 101)* Welder (DPW |1 OK #2)
20.015 19.8S
21.115
20.94
22.275
22.09
♦NOTES Must be qualified under the Weldwood 101 standard welding specification and either having completed the three year apprenticeship program or have worked i n the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours.
XX. Piling Roca
Henchman (with certificate) $ 20.63 Henchman	20.42
Henchman Helper	20.015
Circular Saw Filer (with
certificate) 20.015 circular Saw Filer	19.805
Saw Piler Eelper	19.69
$ 21.765 21.555
21.115
21.115 20.905 20.775
$ 22.96 22.75
22.275
22.275 22.065 21.92
Saw Fitter	(with certificate)	19.69
Saw Fitter	19.48
Saw Fitter	(1st Year	complete)	16.765
Saw Fitter	Helper	16.325
20.775
20.565
17.685
17.225
21.92
21.71
18.66
18.17
III. Engineers 6 Firemen
2nd Class Engineer 3rd Class Engineer 4th Class Engineer Fireman (4th class Fireman
IV. Miscellaneous
Grinderman Head Oiler Oiler
Yard Bucker
First Aid Job Rate Plus:
"C	Ticket	S
"B"	Ticket	s
'A'	Ticket	$
■AA"	Ticket	$
Ticket)
.30/hr.
.40/hr.
i.SO/hr.
.60/hr.
S3
June 15/88 June 15/89
$ 21,005 20.015 18.885 17.505 16.23
17.69
16.93
16.705
17.68
$ 22.16 21.115 19,925 18.47 17.12S
18.66
17.86
17.62S
18.65
June 15/90
? 23.38 22.275 21.02 19.485 18.065
19.69
18.84
18.595
19.68
54
SUPPLEMENT MO. 2 JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS
A Application
1.	The following principles are intended as a guide and basis for negotiations of training programs at the operational level between the Company and the Local Union.
B* Posting
2.	Training positions to be posted for a minirtum period of two {2} consecutive working days.
3.	An employee absent on approved leave of absence, lay-off# illness or accident at the time a Trainee Position is posted will be allowed to nake application within three (3) working days of his or her return, but in no event later than fourteen (14) calendar days of the posting of such Trainee Position. However# such employee nay make application through a Job Steward or by written notice to the Conpany while he or she is away on leave of absence.
C.	Selection and Training
4.	Selection of trainees to be on the basis of seniority, as provided for in Article VIII of the Collective Agreement.
5.	The Company should select a qualified person to provide the training with due regard to ability to comiunicate effectively.
6.	The Company to notify the Plant Coimdttee in writing when a trainee is judged to be qualified, or if he/she is removed from the training program because of incompetence.
D.	Rates of Pay
7.	Rates of pay to apply to trainees during the training period to be their regular job rate, except that they shall not receive more than the established rate for the job for which they are being trained, and subject to appropriate exceptions for piece work employees.
55
E Seniority
8.	Seniority to follow the general principles of Article VIII of the Collective Agreement, with special provisions where necessary to deal with special problems of the operation.
9.	If, during the training period, the trainee wishes to discontinue training, or fails to qualify, he or sne should return to the job previously held by him/her.
F. Revisions and Termination
10.	Nothing in this Agreement is intended to vary, cancel, or otherwise affect existing training agreement.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3A APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM between
WELDffOOO OF CANADA LIMITED (MERRILL 6 WAGHER DIVISION) and
IWA CANADA, Local 1-425, C.L.C. in co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP C INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLOMBIA
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed by the Company as Journeyman, Improvers and Helpers in respect of trades named in Article II herein.
ARTICLE II ~ TRADES
4 Year Program
4	Year program
5	Year Program 5 Year Program 4 Year Program To be established
1.	Millwright
2.	Heavy Duty Mechanic
3.	SteamEitter-Pipefitter
4.	Machinist
5.	Electrician
6.	Welder
56
ARTICLE III ~ GENERAL PRINCIPLES Section 1:	Collective Agreement
All provisions of the Collective Agreement to be applicable to Apprentices in this Program
Section 2 Right to Continue
Once started in the Program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he or she passes all of the prescribed tests and work is available for him/her.
Section 3; Tests
tjpon completion of each period of training in the vocational school, an Apprentice will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he/she will be required to withdraw from the Program.
Section 4:	Meaning of "Year"
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Inprover, it shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days:	the said period to include time spent at the vocational
school.
Section 5 Training Time Entitlement
Subject to the provisions herein. an Apprentice who is hired by the Company and who has had training in another apprenticeship plan will be given recognition of such training tine.
Section 6; On-The-Job Training
The Company will ensure that Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training.
Section 7:	Selection Standards
The Parties will meet and develop appropriate tests and selection standards for trades and planerman categories. This will include an opportunity for an enployee self-appraisal.
57
ARTICLE IV - SELECTION OF APPRENTICES Section I:	Seniority
When the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII of the Collective Agreement.
Section 2; Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned as Helpers for a three (3) month probationary period, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
Section 3:	Selection of Apprentice Procedure
a)	Purpose:	The purpose of this Agreement is to establish
an equitable criteria which will give management reasonable assurance that the Apprentice, upon completion of his or her indentureship, will become a proficient tradesman, and to assure the Union and its members that the senior applicant who meets the criteria will become an apprentice.
b)	Educational Prerequisites:	The educational requirement
£or general trades is Grade 10 or equivalent and Grade 12 or equivalent for the electrical trades.
c)	Aptitude Testing; Applicants will be tested in accordance with the bank of tests as recommended by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour. Testing procedures will be as follows:
i)	A standard set of testing instructions and procedures will be developed and authorized by the Parties to this Agreement and communicated to appropriate Management and Union personnel.
ii)	The passing grade for the tests will be established by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour.
iii)	The passing marks for in Mechanical Trades and Electrical tests are established as being a combined requirement of, firstly, seventy (70%) in the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations segments of the tests, and secondly, seventy per cent (70%) in the overall final scoring of the tests.
58
iv)	AH scoring computations of percentages in each section and overall scares of the tests are recorded as being rounded off to the next highest percentage point where any fraction of a percentage point exists.
v)	Tests will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by Management:	a Union
representative will be present when the tests are given and narked.
vi)	Tests recommended for the self-evaluation will be made available and may be taken by an interested employee. Failure to take such tests shall not jeopardize an employee’s application for any apprenticeship.
d)	Re-Testing:
i)	It is agreed that where an Applicant has failed to pass the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of either the Mechanical or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-tested one (1) additional time for each test.
ii)	Results of all tests will be retained on file in the company’s office. An applicant who has met the criteria and successfully passed the requisite test and is the senior for any future apprenticeship pasting within a three (3) year period, will be considered the successful applicant.
ill) An applicant who qualifies and has passed the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of any of the available tests, but failed the overall test will be eligible to bid and be re-tested for any future apprenticeship pasting.
iv) A master copy of the tests will be made available to IWA - CANADA on request.
ej Maintenance, Honitorlngr and Distribution of Tests
i) Sufficient copies of the tests, answer sheets, and marking overlays will be maintained by Weldwood of Canada Limited, Vancouver office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia.
59
ii} Test materials will be supplied on request to those operations requiring same and will be returned immediately after use.
ill) Use of the tests will be monitored by Weldwood of Canada, Vancouver office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia.
Such monitoring will maintain a record of applicants' tests, successful applicant's scores recorded, seniority applied, and provide a follow-up of the successful applicant's progress throughout training and an appropriate post training period. Other information as deemed necessary by the Parties to this Agreement will be made available as agreed.
f)	Probationary Period:	The successful applicant will be
given a probationary period up to ninety (90) calendar days.
g)	Selection Review:	Where a dispute arises out of the
selection of an apprentice that cannot be resolved at the plant level, the matter will be discussed by Management and the Local Union.
h)	Trial Period:	This agreement is for a twelve (12) month
trial period, from the date of this agreement. Either Party may terminate this agreement upon one (1) month’s written notice after the completion of the eleventh month.
Section 4 Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpers and Inprovers employed by the Company must enter the Program. Helpers and Inprovers who cannot qualify in this Program will be reclassified as labourers with no reduction in rate of pay until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain a job with an equal or a higher rate of pay.
Labourers will not be employed in a manner that will interfere with the application of the Program.
Section 5:	Age Limit
There will be no age limit for applicants.
60
ARTICLE V - TRAINING SCHEDOLES section 1:	Assignment as Helper
All successful applicants. except Welder Apprentices (see appropriate appendix). will be registered as Apprentices and be assigned as Helpers for an eleven (11} month period, prior to attending vocational school, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
A program for the aforementioned Welder Apprentices will be established by June 1st* 1968.
Section 2:	5 Year Schedule
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fifth year
Rating
Helper
Helper
Improver
Improver
Improver
Section 3:	4 Year Schedule
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year
Rating
Helper
Helper
ZflpTOVer
Improver
Section 4;	3 Year Schedule
First Year Second Year
Third Year
Rating 1
Helper
Improver
Improver
Section 5s Electricians
At Operation
First 11 months First 11 months First 11 months First 11 months First 11 months
At operation
First 11 months First 11 months First 11 months First 11 months
At Operation
First 11 months First 11 months First 11 months
At School
Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks
At School
Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks
At School
Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 2, 3 and 4 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shall be required to take eight (8) weeks at school during each year of the Program instead of four (4)/ with the period in the operation reduced accordingly.
61
Section 6:	Passing Test
The Apprentice mist successfully pass the prescribed test before promotion from Helper to Inprover.
Section 7:	Journeyman Qualification
♦Subject to the conditions of this section as listed below, it is agreed that following completion of the period of required training and upon becoming certified, the journeyman shall receive the certified journeyman's rate of pay."
Conditions under which the above will apply:
a)	Only to a journeyman who has gone through the indentured apprenticeship training program under the sponsorship of the Company for which he/she is working.
b)	That he/she is working in the Maintenance Department.
c} That all work normally done by the maintenance department is being performed by the persons employed in the maintenance department.
d)	That nothing in this clause shall prohibit the laying off Of journeymen, helpers or apprentices if they are not required.
e)	That a journeyman nay, when facing lay-of€, choose to exercise his/her seniority into categories outside of the maintenance area at the job rate if his/her seniority and ability entitle him or her to do so.
section 8; Vocational School Delay
If any of the periods provided for in Sections 2, 3, 4 or 5 herein are exceeded by reason of vocational school facilities being unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements.
ARTICLE V I - WAGE RATES Section 1:	Rates and Increments
a)	Wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement.
b)	An Apprentice who passes his or her test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during this second termy*ar as a Eelper.
C) The Wage Rate for an Inprover shall be that as specified in the Wage Supplement.
62
4) An Apprentice who passes a test in the fourth period of vocational training shall receive an increment agreed to between the Conpany and the Union during his/her second term as an Improver.
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen, and who are certified as such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade as agreed to between the Company and the Union.
Section 2 Expenses
Fares* Lost Time Pay and School Expenses are to be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as part of the cost of the Apprenticeship Plan, with the exception that the employer shall pay the Apprentice while attending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Harried persons shall receive their wages, less the amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to single persons:	the
intent being that the greater amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to married persons shall not become a benefit to the Company. In cases where the Apprentice is in receipt of a subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities, the employer will pay the Apprentice while attending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Section 3s Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one of the tests under this program, through no fault of his/her own, the delay shall not prejudice his/her right to wage increments provided for in Section 1 herein.
ARTICLE VII - ADVISORY BOARD section 1:	Constitution:
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two (2) representatives of the Industry, two (2) from the Onion, one (l) representing the Vocational School and one (1) from the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
Section 2: Responsibility
The Board shall be responsible €or advising the Department of Labour, Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch,. regarding the content of tests, standards of marking and the school
63
curriculum with respect to the registered Apprentices. The Board shall not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests.
Section 1:
ARTICLE VIII ~ GENERAL PROVISIONS
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 2;
Persons employed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesmen Qualification Exam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 3:
If a present Journeyman fails to pass the test for a voluntary Tradesmen’s Qualification Certificate, he/she can then become indentured as an Apprentice at no reduction in rate of pay.
Section 4:
There will be a three person committee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen’s Qualification, or who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualification Act. The committee will also determine what vocational training is necessary Cor persons indentured as Apprentices. Representation on the committee shall consist of the following:
a)	One	(1)	representative	from	the	Union.
b)	One	(1)	representative	from	the	Industry.
c)	One	(1)	representative	from	the	Apprenticeship	Branch.
Vocational training will be conducted during day Courses. Textbooks and study material will be made available when required.
ARTICLE IX ~ TOOLS
Section 1:
All Journeyman Tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for the Journeyman rate unless they have, a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the Journeyman.
Section 2
The Improver shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of building-up the necessary tools to equip him/herself for the job.
Section 3;
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools, and shall use those designated to hici/her. However, in his/her own interest, he/she should comnence the process of building up a tool kit.
Between.
And:
65
SPPPLEKEHT WO, 3B APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
in respect to the
Trades of Filing and Fitting
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (MERRILL 4 WAGNER DIVISION)
I VTA CANADA,
Local 1-425, C.L.C.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
1.	Plan "A* - Saw Fitter's Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of Saw Fitter which is defined as follows :
To be competent to fit all types of saws, circular saws, band saws, gang saws, chain saws, etc.
a)	Operate, repair and adjust all saw sharpening equipment and tools.
b)	Basic techniques in welding of saws.
o) Maintain guides and water lines.
d)	Basic techniques in benching of circular saws, slashers and trim saws.
Note:	It is agreed that the Parties will not use the
training program to change the job content of the jobs of the present saw fitters.
Plan *B* - circular Saw Filer Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of a circular Saw Filer which is defined as follows:
Must be qualified Saw Fitter and be conpetent to bench all circular and gang saws (tensioning, weld cracks and weld on teeth) ; be able to repair and maintain all filing room equipment: also mist have a working knowledge of allied mill equipment, only as it applies to his/her job.
66
Plan *C" - Benchman Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of a Benchman which is defined as follows:
Must be a qualified Saw Fitter and Circular Saw Filer, in addition be able to bench circular and band saws. Must have working knowledge of all allied sawmill machinery including the lining up of head rigs and grinding of band wheels.
2.	The Parties agree that the object of the above Plans is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed as filers and fitters in the industry.
3.	The normal period of training will be:
Safety is an important part of the training program as outlined below; as such, it forms an integral part of each phase of the Progrant
a) saw Fitters
Pre-Apprenticeship Training - In Plant three (3) months.
1st	tern:	(a)	3 weeks at school, depending on size class - then writes an examination.
		(b)	11 months in-plant training.
2nd	tern:	(a)	3 weeks at school - then writes an examination.
		(b)	8 months in-plant training.
3rd	tern:	U)	3 weeks at school - then writes an examination - it he/she posses the test, he/she becomes certified as a Saw Fitter.
b) Circular Saw Filets
Must spend a mininum of three (3) months inplant training as an Apprentice Circular Saw Filer.
1st term:	(a)	4 weeks at school - then writes
an examination.
(b)	8 months in-plant training.
2nd term:
67
(a)	2 weeks at school - then writes
an examination - if he/she passes the test, he/she becomes a Certified Circular'Saw Filer.
c)	Benchman
Must spend a minimim of three (3) months in' plant training as an Apprentice Benchman.
1st	term:	(a)	3 weeks at school - then writes an examination.
		(b)	H months in-plant training.
2nd	term:	(a)	2 weeks at school - then writes an examination - if he/she passes, he/she becomes a Certified Benchnan.
Note:	The above periods of in-school training may be
altered by mutual agreement, subject to the experience in the Industry and in consultation with the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Education.
4.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement will be applicable to Apprentices in the Plan.
5.	Once started in this Plan, the Apprentice, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement. will have the right to continue in any one program providing he/she passes all of the prescribed tests and work being available to him/her,
6.	. a) Upon completion of each period of training in
the Vocational School, an Apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to pass a test. In the event of a failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice Saw Fitter will be given a second opportunity. but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he/she will be required to withdraw from the Plan. Any Saw Fitter Apprentice who fails to qualify at any stage of the Program will be allowed to apply his/her seniority as it is applied in a lay-off.
On completion of the third period of training in Vocational School, an Apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to pass a test. On passing the test, he/she will become a Certified Saw Fitter.
68
b)	On completion of the first period of training in Vocational School, an Apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be required to pass the test. In the event of a failure to pass the test, the Apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he/she will be required to withdraw frcm the Program and return to the position of a Saw Fitter.
On completion of the second period of training in Vocational School, an Apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be required to pass a test. On passing the test he/she will become a certified Circular Saw Filer. In the event that he/she fails to pass the test, he/she will be given a second opportunity. If he/she passes the test on the second occasion, he/she becomes a Certified Circular Saw Filer. Should he/she fail to pass the test on the second occasion, he/she will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that of a Saw Fitter.
c)	Opon completion of the first period of training in Vocational School, an Apprentice Benchman will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a teat, the Apprentice Benchman will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of a failure to pass on the occasion of the second test* he or she will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position of Circular Saw Filer.
On completion of the second period of training in Vocational School, an Apprentice Benchman will be required to pass a test. On passing the test he/she will become a Certified Benchman. In the event that he/she fails to pass the test, he/she will be given a second opportunity. If he/she passes the test on the second occasion, he/she becomes a Certified Benchman. Should he/she fail to pass the test on the second occasion, he/she will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that of a Circular Saw Filer.
7.	Wherever reference is made to a year as an Apprentice, it will mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days, the said period to include time Spent at
the Vocational School. In the event a participant works less than two hundred (200) days and has attended Vocational School within the year, hs/she may be given the opportunity to take the required test.
8.	Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice will be entitled to recognition of training time in the Plan in the event of his/her moving from one employer In the Industry to another.
SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
a)	Present trainees who are employed full-time will be indentured in the Program.
b)	Upon entering the filing room, Spaces will be indentured into the Apprenticeship Program subject to the limitations of General Principles, Point i contained herein.
c)	Subject to General Principles, Point S, trainees will be allowed to complete their program to meet the requirements of the Operation in which they work.
d)	S aw Fitter Apprentices It is agreed that the vacancy will be posted m the operation and applicants selected In accordance with Article VIII ■ Seniority.
e)	Circular Saw Filer Apprentices:	It is agreed that the
vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII * Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Saw Fitters.
f)	s^nchjft-an Apprentices:	It is agreed that the vacancy will
be pasted' in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article VIII • Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Circular Saw Filers.
70
CERTIFICATION OF PRESENT TRADESMEN
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers, and Benchxnen employed in the Industry who do not wish to become certified shall not have their seniority rights prejudiced through lack of certification.
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers and Benchxnen will have the right to write a qualifying examination in their respective classification. X£ they pass the examination, the shall receive the appropriate certified rate. If they fail the examination, they shall be slotted into the appropriate apprenticeship program with the view to upgrading and eventually becoming certified. Should they fail as per the steps outlined in 6a), b) or c), they win be subject to the provisions outlined therein.
Present tradesmen who write the Tradesmen Qualification Examination will be tested on the basis of the job content of the present jobs in the filing loom in which they work.
ADVISORY BOARD
1.	There will be an Advisory Board consisting of two (2) representatives of the Industry, two (2) from the Onion, one (1) representing the Vocational School and one (1) from the Apprenticeship Branch..
2.	The Board will be responsible for advising the appropriate school authorities, Department of Education an Department of Labour regarding the content of tests, standards of marking and the school curriculum.
3.	The Board will not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests.
OOTLINE OF THE FILER'S AND FITTER’S TRAINING PROGRAM
FITTER'S APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
1st Tern:
Instruction Breakdown	Work involved
Fitting bandsaws and gangs	3	Reasons for swage.
Swage and shaper adjustment.
Reasons for crumble, etc.
Tooth profile.
Grinding Wheels Instruction of types, dressing, etc.
2nd Term
Review of 1st year school training.
Repair and adjust equipment used by a fitter.
All phases of filing roam welding (acetylene)
Theory and practical
All phases of chainsaw filing.
Carbide (tipping and dressing only)
3rd Tara;
Review 2nd Term
Preliminary circular saw instructions
Capable of hammering
71
Tooth alignment. Sharpener operation. Setting and sharpening of cut off saws. Automatic and hand guffuni ng,
Swaging, shaping and sharpening circular, rip saws.
Automatic and hand sharpening.
Spring set circular rip saws.
Sharpening and retoothing.
Inserted tooth cut off and rip.
3 As last year.
Gauge setting Flame adjustment Tip Size Torch handling Penetration Welding cracks.
Preparing seats Brazing m carbide Teeth * dressing
Leveling, anvil tensioning, plumbing
slashers, trim saws
72
Guide maintenance on	Theory,
bandsaws* Straight and pressure.
Shear board setting.
Wheel scrapers.	Water lines.
Point build	up.
Tooth replacement.
Welding	Benching of	welds.
CIRCULAR SAW FLEER'S APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM 1st Tens:
To become proficient in	4
hammering all circular saws, rip and cut off, used in sawmill planer.
Level and tension, plumbing
All circular saws and including hollow ground (theory 108 cut Off)
Thin Edgers Carbide Double arbour
Review of Basic Shop Mathematics.
73
2nd Term:
Benching gang saws stretcher roll and heat
Filing room machine maintenance
Be able to maintain and repair all filing room equipment.
Trouble shooting of circular saw machinery.
3£nce>an APpa£srrrc5sarp prccram
1st Term:
Instruction Breakdown	Weeks
Complete bandsaw • bench	3
work (roll stretcher and
heat)
Strain calculations Welding
Learn aii-jn/oeni: of mill machines; head rig, edger, resaws, trim, cut-off, etc.
Band mill wheel grinding.
2nd Term:
Saw Capacity Study	2
Feeds, tooth bite Gullet capacity Saw speeds Tooth spacing (circular and band)
Trouble shooting
Leveling tension Check tabs
Theory
Work Involved
Bench bandsaws in
entirety
Stretcher roll and heat
Further training Theory
Theory
74
SUPPLEMENT WO. 4 PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
1.	PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
The implementation and administration of the job evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles and procedures set out in a Manual dated Septentoer, 1955 and entitled "Job Evaluation Manual for Operational Hourly Paid Jobs in the Plywood Industry of British-'Columbia" as amended July, 1955 and as further amendedApril, 1971 (herein referred to as the "Manual").
2.	INDUSTRY JOB EVALUATION COMMITTEE
There shall be a committee constituted and named the Industry Job Evaluation committee (herein referred to as the "Plywood Evaluation Committee”) to consist of one (1) member representative of Forest Industrial Relations Limited and one (1) member representative of Regional Council No. 1, International Woodworkers of America.
3.	FUNCTION OF PLYWOOD EVALUATION COMMITTEE
a)	The Plywood Evaluation Comnittee shall assume general responsibility for the administration of the job evaluation program.
b)	The unanimous decision of the said Comnittee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
4.	EMM JOB REVIEW COMMITTEE
a)	There shall be a committee constituted in each plywood plant named the Plant Job Review Comnittee (herein referred to as "ReviewComnittee") to consist of two (2) merrbers representative of the enployees. At least one (1) representative of Management mist be a mentoer of the plant's Salaried staff or Management, and at least one (1) representative of the enployees mist be an enployee of the plant whose job is subject to Plywood Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed at the plant, and Union may do likewise, except that neither Party may choose as its representative a member of the Plywood Evaluation Committee, or any person who is enployed as a job evaluator by Forest Industrial Relations Limited or by Regional Council Nb. l of the International Woodworkers of America.
75
b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly paid employees for time lost while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, regarding his or her own job, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly paid enployees.
5.	FUNCTION OF REVIEW COMMITTEE
a)	The Review Committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs ace adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Plywood Evaluation Committee for further action. The documents required will include a "Request for Job Evaluation" form submitted either by an individual employee or by Local Management, and a fully completed Job Description which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of the Plywood Evaluation Committee. The form of the documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them, and the time limits for completion may be amended as required by the Plywood Evaluation Committee under the authority given them by Article 3 of this Supplement.
b)	Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request for evaluation or reevaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limits, the Review Committee shall, at the request of anyone of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement, to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
C) When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job, it shall communicate its decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committee that an application for Job Evaluation Committee should not be forwarded to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, will, similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
76
d)	Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Plywood Evaluation Committee to determine the facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise. or to amend a job description or specification submitted to them in support of a Request Cor Job Evaluation Form.
6* APPLICATION OF PROGRAM
The Job Evaluation Program shall apply to all employees in the Plywood Industry except Journeymen Tradesmen, Improvers and Helpers and Powerhouse Boom Crews* Oilers and Grindermen.
7.	DIRECTION OP WORK
Job Evaluation Descriptions are written with the intent to ret forth the general duties and requirements of the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restriction on the right of the Company to assign duties to. employees other than those specifically mentioned in joti descriptions, provided always that is the assignment of such duties changes the job content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation. the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure set out herein.
8.	RE-EVALtJATIOM
a)	When a job has moved to another grade as a result of reevaluation, the wage rate Cor the new grade shall be effective on the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee Lor re-evaluation.
b)	When a job is moved to a lower grade as a result of reevaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of Paragraph 10 herein.
9.	mtV JOBS CREATED
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a new job* a temporary rate shall be set by Management. Thepermanentrate for the said job as determined by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be effective as of the date the job was installed. If tme evaluated rate for a new job is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbeht(s) shall be allowed to continue at the temporary rate.
77
10.	RED CIRCLE JOBS
a) The company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circle jobs, the said list to include the name of the employee, name-of job category filled. the evaluated rate for the job and the actual rate paid.
b} Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate is subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
c)	Employees holding red circle jobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for the job to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is re-assigned to his or her former job, he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
d)	When the company terminates a job, or a job is not occupied during a period of one (1) year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established.
e)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company, he/she shall retain his/her existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to his/her regular job, the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
H. SENIORITY
a)	Subject to the provisions here set, Article VIII -Seniority shall continue to apply.
b)	Promotions shall be made only where a vacancy exists.
12 . RilFSRRAL PROCEDURE
a)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review Committee.
b)	When an employee's request for re-evaluation results in no change being made in the job grade, or in a reduction, or when a Management request results in no change. or in an increase, the Plywood Evaluation committee shall give to the appropriate Review coavni t tee a short statement of
the reasons for the decision. The statement should not
go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria
78
used in sufficient depth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
c)	An evaluation done by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties, but at any time after five (5) years since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of a job, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
d)	If the Plywood Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Reguest for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the Job Evaluation Program which falls within their jurisdiction, the natter shall be referred to Forest Industrial Relations and to the I.W.A. Regional Council for settlement.
e)	All communication between the Plant Review Committee and the Plywood Evaluation Committee referred to above shall be effected by sending one copy to the Union representative or representatives on the Committee and one copy to the Employer representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee. the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of the appropriate Union Local, and the Employer representative care of the Company's Offices at the Plant. In the case of communications to the Plywood Evaluation Committee. the Union representatives will be addressed care of the Offices of Regional Council No. 1 of the I.W.A., Vancouver, and Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
13. TRAINING
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by Forest Industrial Relations Limited and the I.W.A. Regional Council.
79
SUPPLEMENT NO. 5 FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
The following' terms and conditions shall be applicable for the duration of the current Collective Agreement during "Company Responsibility Fires".
It is understood that the terms of this Agreement only apply to the employees in the employ of the Company at the time the fire started. Any person hired for firefighting after the start of the fire will work under the rates and conditions as required by the B.C. Forest Service.
1. DEFINITIONS
a)	Accidental Fire
Any fire not deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, and which requires active measures to extinguish.
b)	Slash Escape Fire
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which has escaped the pre-determined boundaries and requires active measures to extinguish.
c)	Slash Control Fire
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which is contained within the ^re-determined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control and does not require active measures as contemplated in a) and b) above.
d)	Company Responsibility Fire
Any fire which the Company is responsible €or taking measures to extinguish pursuant to the provisions of the Forest Act.
e)	Forest Service Pire
Any fire in respect of which the B.C. Forest Service accepts responsibility for direction of measures to extinguish.
80
£) Fire Fighting Rates
The rates of pay for fighting Company Responsibility Fires hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
g)	Regular Job Rates
Rates of pay to employees for the performance of their regular jcbs. as set out in the Wage Supplement of the Collective Agreement.
Statutory Rates
Rates of pay established by B.C. Forest Service for fire fighting.
2.	COMPANY CONTROLLED TIMER
a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Company employees to fight fire on Company controlled tinber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled timber which is threatening Company controlled tinber, the Company will pay those employees at the fire fighting rates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement.
b)	Where the B.C. Forest Service directs the Company to provide its employees for fighting fires in circumstances other than those set out in a) above, those employees will be paid at the statutory rate.
3.	FIRE FIGHTING RATES
a) The basic rate shall be $14.70 per hour effective June 15/ 1986/ and $15.10 per hour effective June 15/ 1967 and shall apply to all employees engaged in Lighting Accidental or Slash Escape fires. except those performing one of the following fire fighting jobs.
Category
I
June 15/88
crew Boss	$ 17.91
Cat Operators	17.41
Skidder Operators	18.70
Power Saw operator
(own saw)	18.98
Kechanics/Heavy Duty Mechanics Regular Job Rata Slip-on Tank and/or Trailer Tanks with Punp-Driver/ Operator	17.41
June 15/89
$ 18.90 18.37 19.73
20.02
18.37
June 15/90
$ 19.93 19.38 20.81
21.13
19.38
81
Water Tank Truck with
Pump Driver/Operator	16,73
Service Truck/Bus Driver 15,95 Pumpman	16.26
17.65
16.83
17.15
18.62
17.75
18.10
b)	Straight time rates will apply to all employees throughout the period during which the said enployees are engaged in fire fighting. This shall not include cook and bunkhouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanics or other categories servicing, feeding or supplying fire fighters from areas removed from the area of the €ire or fires, unless the duties performed during any da^in-** question are exclusively related to fire fighting operations.
c)	Regular job rates will apply only for the duration of the regular production shift in which the fire started.
d} Where employees are working in job classifications during fire fighting, other than those set out herein, job rates will apply.
4.	BOARD AND LODGING (While Fighting Company
Responsibility Fires)
a)	Enployees who commute from home or camp are expected to
" carry a lunch..	Additional meals where required will
be at Company expense.
b)	Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
c)	Employees living in fly camps will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
5.	TRAVEL TIME
Travel time for enployees engaged in fire fighting will be paid in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
6.	SLASH BURNING
All employees engaged in patrolling or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regular job rate and overtime conditions will apply.
INTERPRETIVE NOTES
a)	When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtime conditions for fire patrol will revert to the normal conditions provided for in the Collective Agreement.
b)	The meaning of the work "extinguish" as used in this Agreement shall include the act or process of suppression tO the paint when the fire requires fire patrolman only.
9
All provisions of the Collective Agreement except as amended or modified herein shall continue to apply.
The! Company and the Union are prepared to participate in joint submissions to the Provincial Government on statutory fire fighting rates.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 6
PENSION PLAN
The parties agree to accept the following amendments to the i.w.A. - Forest Industry Pension Plan.
(a)	Benefit Levels
Effective July 1/ 1988/ the benefit level for all years of credited service is to be increased to $32.00 per month. This increase will apply only to Plan Meirbers who were active Plan Members on June 30/ 1988.
(b)	Pensions in course of payment
Pensions in course of payment prior to July 1/ 1986 will be increased by 15 percent effective July 1, 1988,
(C) The increase in the benefit level under (a) above will not. apply to:
i)	Former Plan Members who became Former Plan Meirbers prior to July 1/ 1988.
i i) Retired Plan Meirbers who retired prior to July I, 1988.
iii)	Any vested deferred pension that a-,£lan Member described in (a) above may already haVe-earned as a result of a prior period of membership.
83
(iv) Any active Plan Member who is employed by an employing company which currently contributes less than $1.70 or, if not currently employed, whose last employing company is contributing, or if not operating was contributing, less that $1.70. However, if on the effective date of the first collective agreement subsequent to July 11 1988, or at such later date as is provided by the application of Article III(6) of the Pension Plan Text to their collective , agreement, the employing company contracts to contribute at the full rate of $1.70 immediately, then the increase to the $32.00 benefit level shall apply to all active Plan Members employed by the employing company, retroactive to July 1, 1988. If the employing company does not contract to contribute under the conditions set forth in the preceding sentence, then the increase to the $32.00 level shall apply only to active Plan Members currently employed on the date the $1.70 contribution rate becomes effective.
Section 1:
SUPPLEMENT HO. 7
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related to 'new" construction with tradesmen employed by an outside contractor, plant tradesmen will be paid the "outside" contractor(s) rate{s).
Section 2:
For the purpose of this Agreement "new" construction shall be defined as meaning:
a)	The construction of major new buildings and major additions to existing buildings.
b)	The addition of new or used major production machinery and related equipment not previously in existence.
84
Section 3
e)
"Tradesmen' shall mean journeyman and apprentices in the following trades:
Machinist
Steamfiitter/Pipefitter
Electrician
Millwright
Welder
Carpenter
b) "Contractor's Rate" shall only mean the hourly wage paid by that contractor and not any other payment or working conditions*
c)
"Contractor's Rate" will not exceed the rates for similar trades paid by I.W.A. Construction conpanies.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 8 ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A. FLEXIBILITY OP BOORS OP WORK
ft Parties recognize the ne d for fle::ib lity of hours >\ iz than those outlined in the Sours of Work :icle the express purpose of better utilization of ipo-and capital such as:
Balancing of production Maintenance Market requirements Even flow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuous scheduling (eg. Logging, Engineers, Firemen. Maintenance, Watchmen)
S.	SHIFT SCHEDULING
The Parties agree that the following shift schedules will provide the flexibility required to me w the needs expressed above.
1.	Looping
(i)	compressed schedules consisting of 10 hours per day, 4 days per week;
(ii)	non-continuous schedules such as 10 days on, 4 days off.
85
2.	Manufacturing
(i) 2 crews working 4 days, 10 hours per shift;
(ii) up to 3 crews working Monday to Saturday, 10 hours a shift not exceeding 40 hours per week:
(iii)	employees working in continuous operations may be scheduled to work shifts other than (i) or (ii) above.
3.	Maintenance
(ij shifts of up to 10 hours per day, 40 hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive:
(ii) three shifts per week, not exceeding 12 hours per day.
4.	Other Shifts
It is understood the parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
C. IMPLEMENTATION
Any variation(s) top the Hours of Work Article shall be
implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
1. The Company and the Local Union will meet to discuss proposed shift schedules within the terms of the Hours of Work Article. It is anticipated that the Local Union will make sincere attempts to assist the Company wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The parties must mutually agree on resolution of issues such as:
a)	Details of shift.
b)	Details	of Statutory Holidays,
Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave. and Jury Duty.
C)	Maximum length of shifts for
physically demanding work. Accident prevention is a factor to be taken
86
into account in determining shift lengths.
d)	The loss of hours/eaployment as a direct result of the implementation of alternate shift schedules.
e)	The use	of	employees	for
supplementary production work.
2.	The Camp or Plant Committee and the crew will be actively consulted by the Parties during the process,
D. GEMERAL PRINCIPLES
When an alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of the Collective Agreement will be administered on the principle that an employee will not lose or gain any benefits over his normal five-day schedule.
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intention is to increase the use of casual employees in place of regular employees.
2.	Different parts of an operation nay be scheduled on different shifts.
3.	The principle of the forty (40) hour week is to be maintained over an averaging period.
4*	This Article shall not change existing
alternate shift agreements, unless agreed to by both parties.
5.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other Articles of the Collective Agreement which provide benefits after eight < 8) hours are extened by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
7.	An employee's rest days may vary from week to week under an alternate shift schedule. Employees shall not be paid premium pay for changes in their rest days in these circumstances.
87
8.	An employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shall receive rate and one-half for work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest day results from the application of seniority or has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
9.	There shall be no premium pay paid to any errployee whose rest days are changed because of the implementation of an alternate shift schedule.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 9
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Between:	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
MERRILL & WAGNER DIVISION
And:	INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 1-425
Re:	Divisions for the Purpose of Seniority in the
Sawmill, Planer Mill and Plywood Plant Complex.
The Parties agree that the application of Article VIII, Section 3 b) will be as follows:
Sawmill Division:
Comprised of Sawmill and Planer Mill employees (including Barkers). Plywood Division:
All Plywood Plant employees (including Barkers).
Open Division
Includes Maintenance employees, and Log Yard employees.
However, if an employee from the Plywood Plant wished to go into the Open Division, he/she would do so with his/her seniority in the Plywood Plant but would have to either remain in the open
Division or go back into the Plywood Plant. The same would apply in the sawmill Division with employees moving.
Those employees hired directly into the Open Division will have one right to successfully bid into either the Sawmill Division or the Plywood Division. Following which, they would have to remain in the division into which they successfully bid, or return to the open Division.
Dated this 28th day of August, 1981.
For :
Weldwood of Canada Limited Herrill & Wagner Division
For:
International Woodworkers of America, Local 1-425 A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.
NOEL J. GOODING
89
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Parties agree that in the application of Article ix, Leave o£
Absence, Section 4, Compassionate Leave, the following criteria
shall be used in determining the enployee’s eligibility.
1.	Leave	of	Absence	without	pay	for	extended	vacation
purposes shall be limited to those enployees with more than two (2) year's continuous service.
2.	Leave	of	Absence	without	pay	Cor	extended	vacation
purposes shall be granted based on one (1) month leave of absence for each year of continuous service to a maximum of six (6) months.
3.	Leave	of	Absence	without	pay	for	extended	vacation
purposes shall be limited to a maxinum of one (1) leave in a three (3) calendar year period.
4.	Leave	of	Absence	for extended	vacation purposes will be
limited to three (3) enployees off on leave at any one time in the Plywood Division, two (2) enployees off on leave at any one time i n the Sawmill Division, and two (2) enployees off on leave at any one time in the open Division,
5.	Leave of Absence Cor extended vacation purposes will be granted on a first come/first served basis.
SIGNED this 28th day Of August, 1981.
For:
Weldwood of Canada Limited Merrill & Wagner Division
For:
International Woodworkers of America, A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.