COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
Between
Weldwood of Canada Limited
Cariboo Division
Local 1-424
July 1 st of 2003 to June 30th of 2009
INDEX
page articie
APPRENTICESHIPTRAINING PROGRAM
ARBITRATIONAND INTERPRETATION
BARGAININGAGENCY
CALL TIME
COMMITTEE
CONTRACTINGOUT
DEFINITION
DURATION OF AGREEMENT EDUCATIONTRUST FUND (THE FUND)
EVALUATION
FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTALCOMMITTEE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
HOURS OF WORK
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
LONG TERM DISABILITY
MANAGEMENT
MEDICALAND HEALTHAND WELFARE
PAY DAYS
PENSION PLAN
RIGHT OF REFERENCE
SAFETYAND HEALTH
SAFETY EQUIPMENT
SENIORITY
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE TOOL INSURANCE TRAVEL TIME -SCALERS UNION SECURITY VACATIONS WITH PAY WAGES
47	XXIII
34	XVI
2	I
32	XIII
9	VI
53	XXIX
3	II
55	XXXI
54	XXX
50	XXIV
37	XIX
36	XVIII
33	XIV
10	VII
21	IX
44	XXI
3	III
38	XX
36	XVII
46	XXII
33	XV
28	XI
52	XXVII
16	VIII
29	XII
51	XXVI
53	XXVIII
51	XXV
3	IV
23	X
6	V
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING APPRENTICESHIPTRAINING PROGRAM BIDDING PROCEDURE CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING EVALUATED CATEGORIES- PLYWOOD FIRE FIGHTINGAGREEMENT LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING MAINTENANCEDEPARTMENTS-ALL DIVISIONS N ON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD OFFICEWAGE SUPPLEMENT PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATIONPROGRAM WAGE SCALE -LOG YARD
- SAWMILL DIVISION NEW AND EVOLVINGWORK
103
85
70
84
55
78
96
64
60
67
72
81
66
62
110
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into as of the 15th day of June, 2004
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED,
(CARIBOO DIVISION)
(hereinafter called the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART,
AND:
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
(hereinaftercalledthe "Union") OF THE SECOND PART.
1.	WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the Parties here to that this Agreement will promoteand improve industrialand economic relationshipsbetween the employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the basicAgreement covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditionsof employmentto be observed betweenthe Parties hereto:
2.	AND WHEREAS the Company accepts responsibilityto observe each and all provisionsand conditionsof this Agreement and to promoteorderly and peaceful relationswith the employees;
3.	AND WHEREAS the Union accepts responsibilityto observe each and all provisionsand conditionsof this Agreement and to promoteorderly and peaceful relationswith the Company:
NOW THEREFORE, the Parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -BARGAINING AGENCY
Section 1:
The Company shall recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining representativeson behalfof its employees properly and duly certified under the appropriate regulations in effect from time to time.
2
Section 2:
The bargainingauthority of the Union shall not be impairedduring the term of this Agreement. The only certificationthat the Company will recognizeduring the term of this Agreement is that of the Union unless ordered by due process of law to recognize some other bargainingauthority.
Section 3:
The Company and the Union shall meet at such time and place as may be mutually agreed upon for the purpose of discussingwages and working conditions and adjusting any matterswithin the confines of the Agreement which come within the scope of Collective Bargaining between the employee and the Company.
ARTICLE II- DEFINITION
The term "Employee" as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall includeall personsemployed by the Company on whose behalfthe I.W.A. CANADA, Local 1-424 have been certified as bargaining agents, except and excluding foremen and others having authority to hire and fire, supervisoryofficials and salesmen.
ARTICLE III - MANAGEMENT
Section 1:
The managementof the operationand the direction and promotion of the employees are vested exclusively in the Management; provided however, that this shall not be used for the purpose of discriminationagainst employees.
Section 2:
The Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
ARTICLE IV- UNION SECURITY
Section 1:
The Company shall co-operatewith the Union in obtainingand retainingas members the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end shall presentto new employeesand to all Supervisorsand Foremen the Policy herein expressed.
3
Section 2:
All employees who entered the employment of the Company on or after the 1st day of September, 1960, and all new employees, shall within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
Section 3:
Any employee who isa member in good standing, oris reinstatedasa member of the Union shall as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement.
Section 4:
Any employee who fails to maintain his membership in the Union as prescribedherein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessmentsshall be dischargedforthwith after seven (7) days written notice to the Company of the said employee's refusal to maintain his membership.
Section 5:
a)	No employee shall besubjectto any penaltiesagainsthisapplicationfor membershipor reinstatement, except as maybe providedfor in the I.W.A. CANADA Constitution as revised 1979, and in accordancewith the By-Lawsof Local 1-424 as of the 1st day of April, 1981.
b)	Any employeewho appliestojoin the Union pursuantto the provisionsherein and whose application is rejected by the Union, shall not be subject to discharge from employment.
Section 6:
The Company shall require ail new employees at the time of hiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union, said forms to be forwarded to the Union not laterthan fifteen (15) calendardaysfollowingthe date of hiring. The forms shall be substantially as follows:
4
.W.A. CANADA
CHECK-OFF
Please Print
Starting Date_____________20„
Name of Employer
Name of Employee Address________
Postal Code_______ Phone.
Operation______________
Social InsuranceNo.____
Are you a Member of the I.W.A.?____________________________________
In what IWA operation were you last employed?______________________
Local Union________________________________________________________
I HEREBY AUTHORIZE AND INSTRUCT YOU TO DEDUCT FROM MY WAGES AND
REMIT TO LOCAL 1-___________________ THE FOLLOWING IN PAYMENT OF THE
AMOUNT SET OUT BELOW:
1.	Union Initiation Fees in the amount of $_________
2.	Union Back Dues in the amount of $_______________
3.	Union Dues$___________per month, commencing _20___
4.	Union Assessments in the amount and at the time stated in notice received by you from the Local Union designated above.
Clock No._____________
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
I hereby requestand accept membership in the I.W.A. CANADA, Local No. 1_____________, and agreeto abide by the constitutionand bylawsofthe organization. In
case of misstatementof qualificationsfor membership I agreeto forfeit all rights, privileges and monies paid.
Signatureof Applicant-Employee
This assignment shall become effective immediatelyin the case of employees already members of the Union, and shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution in the case of employees not previouslymembers of the Union. Until the said assignment is revoked by the employee, the Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment to the Local Union named therein not less often than once each month together with a written statement of names of the employees for whom the deductionswere made and the amount of each deduction.
Section 7:
The Company shall furnish the Union once every month with a list setting out the names of employees absent for fourteen (14) days or longer due to illnessor injury.
Section 8:
The Company shall furnish the Unionwith the Social Insurance Number of each employee on its payroll on the first occasionwhen dues are forwardedto the Union after the executionof this agreement or after the employee enters the employment of the Company,whichever date last occurs.
Section 9:
Employer Deductions From Wages - Employee Benefit Plans- The Parties agreethat the Company shall deduct from an employee's wages and shall remit to the appropriate employee benefit plan, the employee's contributionwhich is specified in any benefit plan agreed to by the parties to the Agreement.
ARTICLE V -WAGES
Section 1:
a)	The Partieshereby agree that wages of all hourly rated employees covered by the Agreement shall be increased bytwo percent (2%) perhoureffectiveJune 15,2004; a furthertwo percent (2%)Effective June 15,2005, and bytwo percent (2%) effective June 15, 2006, two percent (2%) effective June 15, 2007, and three percent (3%) effective June 15,2008.
6
b)
Return of Capital Employed (ROCE) Payments
Paymentswill be madeto each employee in the following years based upon ROCE paymenttriggers. ROCE will be based on the previouscalendaryearfor the combined Northern Interior and Central Interior lumber industry information compiled by Price Waterhouse Coopers.
Year	ROCE 5%	ROCE 10%	ROCE15%	ROCE 20%+
2003	0	0	0	0
2004	$100	$250	$375	$500
2005	$100	$500	$750	$1,000
2006	$100	$250	$375	$500
2007	$100	$250	$375	$500
2008	$100	$250	$375	$500
will apply to all regular employees on the basis of increments of months worked in a calendar year. Regular employees who are laid off during the year will be paid on the basis of months in which they actuallyworked at least one day. For the purposes of this section,vacation will be considered as time worked. These payments do not apply to casual employees.
The Partiesagree that the minimum rate in the mill for common labour shall be:
$21.92 per hour effective June 15th, 2003. $22.36 per hour effective June 15th, 2004. $22,805 per hour effective June 15th, 2005. $23.26 per hour effective June 15th, 2006. $23,725 per hour effective June 15th, 2007. $24,435 per hour effective June 15th, 2008.
d) Employees who have left the employ of the Company must apply within thirty (30) days of ratification to be eligiblefor retroactive pay flowing from this Agreement.
e) Coverall service will be made available to Tradesmen and Apprentices, plus Oilers, Grindermen, End Sprayers, Panel Sprayers and Crane Operators. Cost of providingthis serviceto be borne by the Company. When coverall service is requested by the employees, the service must be used. Failure to wear coveralls after they have been providedwill result in permanent loss of this privilege.
Section 2: Welders
a)	EffectiveJuly 1st, 1981, the following shall be the classification of welders in manufacturing conditional on the welders being qualified as required underthe Standard Forest Industry Welding Specificationsand either having completed
7
the three (3) year apprenticeshipprogram or havingworked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours as a welder.
Group 1 -Welder (F1 -101, F1 - 102)
Group2 -Welder (F1 -103, DPWi, DPW2)
Group3 -Welder (Uncertified)
b)	Employees employed as welders and who are required by the employer to renew their welding qualificationsshall be granted up to five (5) days paid leave of absence to attend school for instruction. The Company shall pay the cost of instructionand examination.
Section 3:	First Aid Attendants
j) The Company will pay the cost of training and re-trainingfor Industrial First Aid Certificates including lost time wages to designatedduty First Aid Attendants.
ii)	Designated First Aid Attendants shall receivetheirjob rate of pay plusthe Ticket Premium rate.
iii)	All other employees holding valid First Aid Ticketsshall receivea premium of five cents (Scents) per houroverand above their job rate. There shall be no stacking or pyramidingof premiums.
Section 4: Graders-Lumber Division
i)	Grading tickets shall be permanent and valid Certificates.
ii)	All Graders holdinggrading tickets shall attend upgradingclasses as required.
iii)	Graderswho are requiredto attend upgrading classes (rule changes)shall receivetheir regular straighttimejob ratefortime spent in attending said classes.
iv)	Effective September 1st, 1975 all Certified Lumber Gradersshall receivea premium of twenty-five cents (250) perhourfor a Grading Certificate provided that these premiumsshall be paid only when actually engagedas Lumber Graders.
v)	Effective June 15,1994, a fifteen cents (150) premium for employees holdingcurrent and valid lumber grading certificates, but not engaged as lumber graders, sothatthetotal ticket premium will be fifteen cents (150) per hour. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premium.
8
Section 5:
For convenienceof referenceonly a Wage Scale is published in Schedule No. 1 and shall be effective, subject to correction any errors or omissions, as of July 1,2003 and may, subjecttothe consent of both Parties, be revised once annually.
Section 6:
a)	In the eventthatjob conditionschangedueto the installation of new machinery or revision of work practicesor new classifications, the Parties shall meet after the new machinery is operating properly or the new work practices have proven practical, to determine the designationand wage rate to be paidto the employee (s) affected.
b)	In the eventthatjob conditions change in the Plywood Section as set forth in (a) above, wage rates shall be determined as set out i n the wage evaluation manual.
c)	In the eventthatjob conditions change in the Lumber Division as setforth in (a) above, wage rates shall be determinedas set out in the Sawmill Rate DeterminationProgram.
Section 7: Shift Differential
The first shift is the recognizedday shift. Hoursworked outside the recognized day shift
shall be regarded as the second and third shifts. A shift differential of thirty-one cents (310) per hour shall be paidfor second and third shifts. A day shift employee working in excess of his regular shift shall be paid rate and one-half without the differential. Any employee on the second and third shift working in excess of his regular shift shall
receive rate and one-half. Forthe purposeofthe last sentence, rate shall be rate plus thirty-onecents(310). Persons employed otherthan on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one (310) shift differential for all hoursworked outsidethe recognizedday shift.
ARTICLE VI -COMMITTEE
Section 1:
Forthe purpose of this Agreement, and in Schedule 2 on bidding Procedurewhen the word "Committee" is used, it shall mean Shop, Camp, or Mill Committee, membersof which are appointed by the Union.
Section 2:
The Committee shall consist of not less than four and not more than seven employees who are members of the Union, and whenever possible,they shall be selected on a departmental basis
Section 3:
The Union shall, within sixty (60) days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members on the Committee. The Union or Committee shall inform the Company in writing when any member change takes place on the Committee. No member of the Committee shall be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is carried out.
Section 4:
The provisionsof Section 1,2 and 3 shall not apply in referenceto:
a)	Article XI: Safety Committee,where the members are designatedaccordingto the provisions of the Workers' CompensationAct, and;
b)	Under Article XV-Joint Committee.
ARTICLE VU - HOURS OF WORK
Section 1:	Production and MaintenanceEmplovees
a)	The regular hours of work shall be:
Eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, with rate an one-half for any hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any one day and forty (40) in any one
week. All productionemployeesshall be paid rate and one-halffor Saturday and/or Sunday regardlessofthe numberof hoursworked during the week except that:
b)	Double straighttime rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	Hoursworked in excess of 11 hours per day.
ii)	Hoursworked on Sunday by employeeswho have worked five shifts during the preceding six days.
iii)	For purpose of (b) herein a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
iv)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employeeswho work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
Section 2: Office Employees
a) The regular hours of work for office employees shall be:
10
Seven (7) hours per day and thirty-five (35) hours per week, with rate and one-half for any hours worked in excess of seven (7) in any one day and thirty-five (35) in any one week;
Except for the position of Draftsman,which will be seven and one-half (7%) hours per day and thirty-sevenand one-half (37%) hours per week, with rate and one-half for any hours worked in excess of seven and one-half (7%) in any one day and thirty-sevenand one-half (37%) in any one week;
The positionsof Storekeeper, Assistant Storekeeperand PurchasingClerk, which will be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, with rate and one-halffor any hours worked in excess of eight (8)i n any one day and forty (40) in any one week.
All office employees shall be paid rate and one-halffor Saturday and/or Sunday regardless of the number of hours worked during the week, except that;
Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
j)	Hours worked in excess of 3 hours beyond their regular work day.
jj)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five
shifts during the preceding six days.
iii) For purposesof (ii) herein, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
jV) Item (ii) above shall not apply to employeeswhowork Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
Section 3:	Casual Work
a)	The term "Casual Work" as used in this Agreement shall apply only to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-off regular employees or other persons hereinafter referredto as "Casual Employees".
b)	Casual work on production shall be paid for at one and one-half times job rate.
c)	Casual work on maintenance, repairand preparatorywork shall be paid for at straight-timejob rate.
Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as casual employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said casual employees.
e)
Weekend cleanup work performed by casual employees, laid-off regular
employeesand part-timeemployeeswill be paid for at straight-timejob rate exceptas provided in (f) herein.
f)	A laid-off regular productionemployee shall be considered a production employee during the week he/she is laid off and will be paid rate and one-half for any work he/she performson eitherSaturdayor Sunday exceptas provided in Section 1 (b) above.
g)	The Company agreesto keep separate seniority listsofcasualemployeesfor each division, who haveworked at leastten (10) working days, in a division, exclusivelyfor recall purposeandsubjectto Clause(d)furtheragreesto recall casual employees in accordancewith more seniority as setforth in these lists.
Section 4:
a)	Those employees who of necessity regularly work on Saturday and Sunday shall take two (2) other days of the week offto be mutually agreed between the employees and the Company. In such event, Saturday and Sunday shall be consideredworking days and overtime rates shall not apply on Saturday. However,these employeesshall be paid rate and one-halffor work performed on Sunday. Overtime rates shall apply when the regular daily or weekly work limit has been exceeded. Overtime rates shall apply on the rest days of these employees if worked unless a change in rest days has been agreed upon between the employees and the Company.
b)	Forthe purpose of this Section only, employees shall be Engineers, Firemen, Operating Millwrights, MaintenanceWorkers and Watchmen.
Section 5:
a)	Maintenance,repair and constructionemployees can be employedon a Tuesday to Saturday work week for which they shall be paid straighttime for Saturday work. In such event, Sunday and Monday shall be recognized as their rest days and any work performed on their rest days shall be paidfor at rate and one-half. The rest day, Monday, may be changed by mutual consent betweenthe employee and the Company. In such event, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight time. If the employee works on Monday at the request of the Company, the rate of pay will be rate and one-half. However, if the employee requestsa temporary changefrom his rest day on Monday, work performed on Mondayshall be paid for at straighttime.
b)	Ifa Statutory Holidayoccurs on the employee's regular day off, he shall be entitled to take h is next regular work day off without pay.
12
Section 6: Alternate Shift Scheduling
a)	Management, Plant or Camp Committeesand the Local Union shall have the right underthe terms of the CollectiveAgreementto agree upon and implement other schedules which, exceptfor productionshifts in manufacturingoperations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, providedthe principle of the forty (40) hourweek is maintained over an averaging period. Rate and one-half shall be paidfor hours worked on Sunday, unless otherwise agreed bythe parties.
b)	Any variation (s) to the precedingSections denoting normal hours of work shall be implemented only upon completionofthefollowing steps:
j)	Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Local
Management.
jj) At any point in the negotiationof an Alternate Shift Agreement either Party may requestthe assistance of Weldwood and/or the I.W.A. Canada National office inthe negotiationof an Alternate Shift Agreement.
iii) At any point in the negotiationof an Alternate Shift Agreement either Party may requestthe assistanceof a mediator in the negotiationof an Alternate Shift Agreement. The individual selected to act as mediatorwill be by agreement.
jv) Majorityapprovalbytheemployeesinvolvedinthe proposed variations.
When alternativeshift schedules have been implemented in accordance with (a) and (b) above, the following overtime provisionswill apply:
A.	Rate and one-half shall be paid for the following:
j) The first three (3) hoursworked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours of the establishedschedule.
jj) Hoursworked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hoursaveragewhen there is an averaging period.
iii) All hoursworked on an employee's scheduled rest day, unlessa change in rest day basbeen agreed to between the employeeand the Company.
jV) All hoursworked on Sundayexceptthose excluded in the casual section.
-13
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
j)	All hours worked in excess of A (i) above
jj)	All hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday is also an employee's
scheduled rest day, if the employee has worked forty (40) straighttime hours in the preceding six (6)days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
C.	Schedule7 -Alternate Shift Scheduling, containsthe agreed upon general principles and parametersforthe establishment, implementationor discontinuance of alternate shift schedules.
Section 7:
If three (3) hours or less in the Lumber Division and/or one (1) hour or less in the Plywood Division are necessary after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding a Statutory Holiday to complete a shift which commenced work on Friday afternoon or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding the Statutory Holiday to complete the shift shall be paid straight time rates.
Section 8:
The work week shall commencewith the starting time of the first shift Monday, and shall end at the completion of the last shift which commences on the following Friday.
Section 9:	Three Shift Operation
a) The Company shall havethe rightto operate the plant or any part thereof on a three-shift basis and all employees working underthis arrangementshall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completionof the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Company's option.
b)	Section (a) above shall only apply fothose employees actuallyworking on a three-shift basis.
Section 10:
The foregoing provisions of this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeingto any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 11:
No employee covered by this Agreement who refusesto work overtime shall be subject to any penaltieswhether the refusal be singular or in concert.
14
Section 12:
All employees in manufacturingplants shall be entitled to two ten-minute rest periods during each regular shift; provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employees in implementingthis provision.
Section 13:
Where maintenance, repair and constructionemployees are requiredto work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal, such hot meal to be consumed by the employees on Companytime before beginningthe overtime work. The hot meal will be made available at the Plywood Plant.
Section 14:
The Company agrees to discontinue the use of time clocks subject to the following:
a)	The general use of clocks be discontinuedfor a trial period of three (3) months.
b)	New employees are to punch the clock for the first three (3) months of employment.
c)	Casual employees are to punch the clock.
Employees who report late must punch the clock and have the card initialed by their Foreman.
e)	Employees may makearrangementswith employees on the same jobs on their following shift to relievethem a maximum often (10) minutes priorto their regular quittingtime providingthey have permissionof both Foreman involved.
f)	Employees may enter or leave their place of work by the North Entrance only.
g)	Employees who work overtime must punch the clock
h)	Employees who have been absent and return to work must report to their department foreman at the commencement of the shift.
i)	Employees who abuse the system shall be required to punch the clock for a three month period.
j)	Employees a busing the honour system will still be subject to Article III, Section 2 of the Collective Agreement.
-15-
ARTICLE VIM -SENIORITY
Section 1:	Principle of Seniority
The principle of seniority, competency considered,shall be recognizedby the Company and the Union.
Section 2:	Divisions
a)	This Agreement covers all operations of the Cariboo Division of the Company in the Quesnel area.
b)	The Cariboo Division of the Company shall be organized for seniority purposes asfollows:
1.	Plywood Division
2.	Lumber Division
3.	Office Division
Section 3:	Plant Seniority List
The Company shall supply to the bargainingagent once every three months the following complete seniority list. The seniority list shall be kept up to date, particularlyin the event of a reduction in forces.
1. Seniority Lists:
a.	Plywood Division
b.	Lumber Division
c.	Office Division
Section4:	Promotions or Job Openings
a)	Promotionsshall be based on divisional seniority and the provisionsof the job postingagreements.
b)	Job openings (exceptthose on base rate) shall be posted for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours.
c)	Employees interested in having their bid considered although they may be absent at the time of posting, may leave their "bid" with the Personnel Departmentand their bid shall be considered in case such opening occurs. A copy of such bid shall be given to the Plant Committee for checking purposes.
16
Section 5:	Lay-offs or Reduction of Forces
a)	In the event of a reduction of forces with in a Division, the last person hired shall be the first released, by Weldwood Quesnel hire date seniority.
Employees are retained on the payroll within their Division by their Weldwood hire date seniority. They shall have the right to retain their bid jobs accordingto their Divisional(or Departmental)seniority. Employeeswith insufficient Divisional seniority to retain their jobs shall return to the jobs previously held in the Division and in such case replace anyone holding such jobs with less divisional seniority.
During a reduction of forces where an employee's seniority is such that he or she will not be able to keep his or her regularjob he or she may elect to apply his or her seniority to a job paying a higher rate subject to the competency of the person involved and the provisionsof Section 1. Detailsto be worked out between the Local Union and the Company.
During a reduction of forces where an employee's seniority is such that he or she will not be able to keep his or her regularjob he or she may elect whether or not to apply his or her seniority to obtain a lower paidjob or a job paying the same rate of pay or accept a layoff until his or her regularjob becomesavailable, provided however:
1)	If during the layoff period the employee wishes to return to work and so notifies the Company, he or she shall be called back to work as soon as his or her seniority entitles him or her to a job.
2)	The application of this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his or her rights, bumping an employee with less plant seniority.
a. Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditionsthe application of seniority as agreed under subsection 5(a) may be postponedfor such periodsas may be necessary not exceeding three (3) working days. If the Company decidesto exercise its rights underthis provision, it shall notify the Committee as soon as possible.
Section 6:	Seniority Retention
C)	i)
ii)
Seniority during lay-off shall be retainedon the following basis:
-17-
a)	Employeeswith less than one (1) year's service shall retain their seniority for a period of eight (SJmonths.
b)	EffectiveJuly 1, 2003, employeeswith one (1) or more years service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plusone (1) additional monthfor each year of service up to an additionaltwelve (12)monthsfor a maximum period of twenty-four (24) months.
c)	A laid-off employee's seniority retentionas providedfor in a) orb) above will be reinstated in the event of re-employmentbeforethe expiry of seniority retention and on the completionof one day's work.
Section 7:	Rehirina or Re-establishment of Forces
a)	In case of re-establishmentof forces, "demoted" employees shall have first claim on their previously held jobs and in such eventjobs shall not be posted.
b)	When rehiring after a reductionofforces, employees shall be notified by telegram or registered letter if residing within a 100 mile radiusof Quesnel, and they shall be rehired in order of their plant seniority, providedthatthey reply to the telegram (or letter) in the affirmative within ninety-six (96) hours and appear not later than seven (7) days from the time the telegram or letter was sent. However,employees resident in the Province of Alberta or the Yukon Territory shall be given one (1) additional day's time for reportingand any employees resident in any other Canadian province or the United States shall receivetwo (2) additional day's time for reporting. All employees shall, upon returningto employmentwithin the required number of days of being notified by the Company, retain all seniority rights. It shall be the employee's responsibilityto keep the Company informed of their addresses during lay-off.
Section 8:	Probation
a)	Notwithstandinganything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, all employees are hired on probation. The probationaryperiod shall continue for thirty (30)working days, during which time such employees are to be considered temporary workers only, and during this same period no seniority rights shall be recognized. Upon completion of thirty (30) working days such employees shall be regardedas regular employees and shall then be entitledto seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company's employ; provided however, that the probationaryperiod of thirty (30)working days shall only be cumulative within the three calendar months following the date of entering employment.
b)	Clause(a)ofthissectiondoesnotapplytoemployeeswho movefrom one operation of a Company to anotheroperation of the same Company within thirty (30)days for those laid off, and within ninety (90) days for those terminated as a result cf a permanentclosure.
-18
c)	It is agreed that probationaryemployees will have preference over casual employees for any work performed during the normal work week, subject to competency.
d)	It is further agreed that in the application of (c) above, probationaryemployees will be called in for work in accordancewith their hiring date, unless such call-in is beyond the control of the employer, and is subject to the employee being competentto perform the work. This obligation does not apply where the employee has worked one shift in the 24 hours period.
Section 9:	Reinstatement
In any case where an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory position and at a later date ceases to be a supervisory worker and the Company desires to retain their services, reinstatementcan be made within the bargaining unit provided however, that supervisory workers reinstated in the bargaining unit must return to the job held at the time of their promotion to a supervisory position.
Section 10: Absence Without Just Cause
An employee who is absent without leave for a period of more than three (3) consecutiveworking days, who cannot show just Cause for such absence, shall forfeit all seniority rights. This provision shall not interferewith the Company's right to dischargefor proper cause.
Section 11: PartTime and Temporary Employees
a)	Weekend workers and others not desirousor available for regular employment
shall be regarded as casual employees, and shall not accrue any seniority.
5)	Workers who are hi red for temporary employment and signify that they are
availableand who are in fact availablefor permanentemploymentshall be considered as relief workers as soon as they have worked thirty (30) days within the three (3) calendar month period following their date of hiring, they shall accrue seniority from their date of hiring.
Section 12: Interdepartmental and Interplant Bidding
The seniority provisions of this Agreement shall apply separatelyto each Division and
there shall be no bidding between Divisions,except:
a) Plywoodand Lumbervacancies will be bid first at the site where they occur, second at the other site and third from the street.
m	Positions posted in a different Division will be awarded by Company hire date.
19-
An employee biddingfrom one Divisionto another loses their existing seniority and beginsday 1 senioritywhen they start work in their new Division.
Employees biddingfrom one site to another will have 30 calendar days to decide to stay at the new Division and successfully complete a training period. If the employee chooses or does not make the training period they return to their previousjob with their seniority intact. Employees keep their hire date seniority for vacations, service and layoff purposes.
Section 13: Hiring
It is agreed that companies signatoryto this agreement shall give preference in hiring, competency considered, on the following basis, in the following order:
1.	previous employees of the Division who have both previousseniority and an application on file
2.	previous employees of the company who have previous company seniority and are seeking employment as a result of operationalclosures or crew reductions in other operations of the company
3.	laid off employees of other forest industry companies in the communities, who are seeking employmentas a result of operationalclosures or crew reduction in excess of ninety (90) days.
4.	laid off forest industry IWA member of Local 1-424 and 1-425 who are seeking employmentas a result of operational closuresor crew reduction in excess of ninety (90) days
5.	persons who qualify for preference, and wish to exercise their rights to preference, must make applicationwithin six monthsof the operational closure or the ninety day layoff period.
Applications will be kept on file as active for 60 days. After which time, applications must be renewed by the person seeking employment, or no preferenceshall be considered.
Section 14: Transfer of Company Seniority
i) Where Employeesof a Company operationare offered, and accept, a position in another division of that Company and successfully complete their probationary period, then their prior Company service date will be applied for annual vacation entitlement and vacation pay purposes.
jj) Employeeswill be entitled to a maximum of one floater per Employee per year i n the event of transfer.
ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1:	Iniurvor Illness
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness for the term of this Agreement, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the Company. The employee shall have a reasonableperiod of time to present such medical certificate. The employee shall report or cause to have reported the injury or illness which requires his/her absence to the Company as soon as may be reasonably possible.
Section 2:	Written Permission
Any employee desiring leave of absence must obtain permission in writing from the Company for such leave, except in cases of illness or injury covered by Section 1 above.
Section 3:	Compassionate Leave
The Company will grant leave of absence up to a maximum of six (6) months without
pay to employees for compassionatereasons or for educationalor training or extended
vacation purposes, conditionalon the following terms:
a)	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for such applicationcould not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application
c)	That the Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant, or may postpone leave for educationalor training purposes where a suitable replacementis not available.
d)	That the Company shall be requiredto notify the Shop Committee of its decision in respect of any applicationfor leave under this Section.
e)	It is agreed that employees requesting leave of absence, for extended vacations during the period June 15th to Sept. 15th, shall only be granted such leave, once every three (3) years, and that a record be keptfor the purposeof rotating such leaves.
f)	That employees making applicationfor leave of absence for "extended vacations"shall apply at least one (1) month in advance.
g)	All earned vacations must be taken in conjunctionwith an "extended vacation leave".
21 -
h)	The Company will grant a reasonableperiod of extended maternity leave without
pay to female employeeswhere there is a valid reason.
Section 4:	Bereavement Leave
a)	When death occursto a member of a regularfull-time employee's immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriateleave of absence for which he shall be compensated at his regular straighttime hourly rate of pay for his regularwork schedule for a maximum of three (3) days.
b)	Piece workers who are entitled to bereavement leave shall be compensated in accordancewith the principleestablished in Article XII, Section2 (b) of this Agreement.
c)	Members of the employee's immediate family are defined as the employee's spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law,father-in-law, step-parents, grandparents,grandparents-in-law, grandchildren, stepchildren, sons-in-lawand daughters-in-law.
d)	Compensablehours under the terms of this Section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognizedpaid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 5:	Jury Duty
Any regularfull-time employee who is required to perform jury duty, coroner's jury, Crown Witness, or coroner's witness on a day on which they would normally have worked will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay received for jury duty and their regular straighttime hourly rate of pay for their regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understoodthat such reimbursementshall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay receivedfor jury duty. The employee will be requiredto furnish proof of jury service and jury duty pay received.
b)	Any piece-workerwho is requiredto performjury duty shall be compensatedfor the difference between statutory pay received for jury duty and their job rate in accordancewith the principleestablished in Article XII, Section 2(b) of this Agreement.
c)	Hours paid for jury duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
-22-
Section 6:	Union Business
a)	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or elected to Union office. The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company with in thirty (30) calendar days after the completion of their term of employmentwith the Union.
b)	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are elected as representativesto attend Union meetingsand Union conventions, or as members of any negotiating committee of the Industrial,Wood and Allied Workers of Canada, in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
c)	In order for the Company to replace the employee with a competent substitute, it is agreed that before the employee receivesthis leave of absence, as set forth in Clauses (a) and (b) above, the Company will be given due notice in writing in the case of (a), twenty (20) calendar days; and in the case of (b), five (5) calendar days.
Section 7:	Public Office
a)	The Company will grant leave of absencefor campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to and includingeight (8) weeks, providedthe Company is given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unlessthe need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave as is necessaryduring the term of such office. Municipaloffice holders, where the term of public office isserved intermittently, shall give the Company reasonablenotice for absencesfrom work for conducting Municipalbusiness.
c)	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
ARTICLE X -VACATIONS WITH PAY
With respectto annual vacationsand vacation pay the following provisionswill apply:
Section 1: One to Two Years Service
The annual vacation for employees with one (1) or two (2) years service covered by this Agreement shall be two (2) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon five percent (5%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement,or eighty (80) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
-23-
Section 2: Two to Seven Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with two (2) to seven years service covered by this Agreement shall be three (3) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon seven percent (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and twenty (120) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regularjob, whichever is greater.
b)	The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may betaken when convenientfor the Company but does not have to be consecutivewith the vacation period providedfor in Section 1 herein.
Section 3:	Seven to Fifteen Years Service
a) The annual vacation for employees with seven (7) to fifteen (15) years service covered by this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon nine percent (9%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regularjob, whichever is greater.
b) The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutivewith the vacation periods providedfor in Sectionsl and 2 herein.
Section 4:	Fifteen toTwentv-Four Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with fifteen (15) to twenty-four (24) years service covered by this Agreement shall be five weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon eleven percent (11%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement,or two hundred (200) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regularjob, whichever is greater.
b)	Subjecttothe provisionsof Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation providedfor in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods providedfor in Sectionsl, 2 and 3.
Sections:	Twentv-Four to Thirty Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employeeswith twenty-four (24) to thirty (30) years service covered by this Agreement shall be six (6) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon thirteen percent (13%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and forty (240) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subjecttothe provisionsof Section8 herein, theadditionalone (1) week
24-
vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutivelywith the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1,2,3, and 4.
Section 6:	Thirty Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employeeswith thirty (30) years service covered by this Agreement shall be seven (7) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon fifteen percent (15%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the periodof entitlement or two hundred and eighty (280,)hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regularjob, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisionsof Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation providedfor in this Section may betaken consecutivelywith the vacation periods providedfor in Sections 1,2, 3,4 or 5.
Section 7: Vacation Pay on Termination
An employee whose employment is terminated shall receive vacation pay at the
appropriatepercentage of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement in
accordancewith the employee's years of service.
Section 8:
a)	Vacationsfor employees shall be taken at such time as mutually agreed upon by the Shop Committee and the Company when quantityand regularityof production shall not be impaired.
b)	All earned vacations must betaken.
Section 9:
a)	The calculationand comparison of the vacation pay amounts developed by the percentage of gross wages method and the hours times the regular job rate method will be completed and the greater amount paid to the employee within fourteen (14) days of the common vacation pay cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date. The Company's present cut-off or anniversary date method shall be continued unless a change is agreed upon between the Company and the Local Union.
b)	For the purposes of this Article, the rate of the employee's regularjob will be the rate of the employee's regularjob at the date of the common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversarydate, as the case may be.
c)	In the case of a pieceworker,the rate of the employee's regularjob will be determined by computingthe employee's hourly average earnings for the days actuallyworked during the pay period immediatelyprecedingthe common
-25-
vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversarydate, as the case may be
d)	On the date when an em ployee com pletes one (1), two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four(24), or thirty (30) years of service and where there is a common cut-off date for all employees in the operation, the employee will receive:
j) In the case of one (1) year, one percent (1%) of his gross earnings between the date of employment and the date of the last common cut-off date;
j]) In the case of two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24), or thirty (30) years, two percent (2%) of his gross earnings between the date of his last anniversary date and the date of the last common cut-off date.
Section 10: Vacation Pay - Percentage of Wages Method
The following shall be consideredas days actually worked for determiningvacations
with pay for an employee after one (1) continuous year of employment.
a)	Absence on Worker's Compensationup to a period of one (1) year, providedthat the employee returnsto his employment.
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1) year, providedthat the employee returns to his employment. The employer shall have the right to require a certificatefrom a qualified medical practitioner.
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordancewith the termsand conditions of Article (X, Section 4.
d)	Absence due to time served on Jury Duty, includingCoroner'sjury, or time served as a Crown witness or Coroner'switness in accordancewith the terms and conditionsof Article IX, Sections.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the employer in writing shall be credited towards entitlementfor annual vacation, but time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 11: Qualifications for Vacation Pav - Regular Job Rate Method
a)	j)	In order for an employee to qualify for the amount generated by the
hours times the regularjob rate method, the employee must have worked a minimumof fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in the employee's first year of service and a minimumof one thousand (1,000) hours during the employee's succeedingyears of entitlement.
-26
jj) Wherethere is a common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposesof calculating minimum hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeedingyear.
iii)	Where there is no common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee's anniversarydate in one year to his anniversarydate in the succeedingyear.
b)	For purposes of computing the requisite hours the following will be included:
i)	All hoursworked;
ii)	Statutory Holiday hours;
iii)	Jury and Crown Witness duty;
iv)	Bereavementleave;
v)	Vacation hours;
vi)	Time not exceeding (1)year, lost as the result of an accident recognizedas compensableby the Workers' Compensation Board and suffered during the course of employment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee returns to his employment.
vii)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of a non-occupationalaccidentor illness, shall be considered as time worked for the purposeof qualifying for vacation, provided that at the time of the accidentor illness the employee has been on the payroll for not less than one (1) year and that he returns to his employment. It is understoodthat the employer may require that the employee provide a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
viii)	Time lost as a result of lay-off shall not be considered as time worked for the purposeof qualifyingfor requisite hours.
;x) Employeeswho reportfor work and who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any such shift for purposes of computing requisite hours under this Section. Any employee who qualifies for call time in a day shall receive credit under this Section
-27-
for eight (8) hours or credit for the hours for which wages were paid, whichever is greater.
x) All hours worked in more than one (1) division of the parent company as a resultoftransferor lay-off.
Section 12: Employment Standards Act
Part4 -Annual Vacation of the EmploymentStandardsAct, S.B.C., 1980, c.10 and amendments thereto, exceptwhere varied or modified bythe provisionsherein, shall become a part ofthis Agreement.
ARTICLE XI ■ SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section 1:
The Company and employees shall co-operateto assure safe working conditions and methods and to devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures. Equipment and devices mutuallyagreed upon shall be provided by the Company.
Section 2:
The managementof every operation shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee (hereinafter called "Safety Committee")of four (4) to twelve (12) members accordingto the size of the operation. Members of the Safety Committee shall be designated in equal numbers by the employees and the Company. Employeerepresentativesshall be regular employees in the operationwith at least one (1) year's experience.
Section 3:
When inspections and Safety Committee meetings are held in the same week and the total time spent by any employee exceeds the two hours providedfor, employees are to be compensatedat straight time rates for all time spent on inspectionsand Safety Committee meetingsoutside of normal working hours.
Employeeswho attend Safety Committeemeetings or accident investigationsduring working hours shall not suffer any loss of pay. Plant inspections for safety will be done outside of the employee's normal working hours unless otherwise agreed.
Safety Committee members shall be notified at least one week in advance of the time and place of safety meetings. The Company shall make the necessaryarrangements so that Safety Committeemembers working at the time of the meeting can attend.
Section 4:
Any one or all employees working in the immediate proximitywhen a fatal accident has
28
occurred may, without discrimination,refrainform working the balance of the shift. Section 5:
Two First Aid Attendants will be in attendance in the Plywood Plant if available on all regular shifts.
Section 6:
Suitable emergency transportationwill be providedforthe Company's operations in the Quesnel area.
Section 7:
Effective J uly 1,1989, an I.W.A.-Forest Industry Safety and Health Research Program
be establishedon the following general principles:
a)	The Plan will be jointly trusteed.
b)	The Plan isto be funded on the basis of an Industrycontribution of one-half cent (!4$) per hour per employee per hour worked, effective July 1,1989.
c)	The trustees will be appointed in the first year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish objectives and operating and administrative procedures.
In addition to the funding providedfor in the Agreements,the Parties agree to the
following:
a)	When funds in the Plan reach$100,000.00, the Employerwill contribute an additional half-cent(T40) per hourfora total of one-cent(1£) per hour.
b)	When funds in the Plan reach$200,000.00, the additional one-half cent {Vz$) providedfor in (a) above will be discontinued untilthe fund level is again reduced to the $100,000.00 level.
ARTICLEXII -STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Section 1:
a)	All employees who work on New Year's Day, Good Friday, B.C. Day, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Labour Day, ThanksgivingDay, RemembranceDay, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be paid rate and one-halffor all hours so worked.
b)	In the event one of the above statutory holidaysfalls on Sunday, the following
29
Monday shall be observed as the statutory holiday.
c)	In the event of a statutory holidayfalling on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, and when the company and the Shop Committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observedthe preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
d)	In the event one of the statutory holidaysfalls on a Sunday or Monday, the employee's regularday off, the employee shall be entitled to take his/her next regular day off. This will apply onlyto those regularly employed on a Tuesday to Saturdaywork schedule.
e)	In the event one of the statutory holidaysfalls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or the succeeding Monday, or as agreed upon between the company and the Shop Committee.
f)	When a statutory holidayfalls on a Friday, employees working on a Tuesday to Saturdaywork week, by mutual agreement between the Company and the Plant Committee, may work on the Friday Statutory Holiday at the straight time job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday.
Section 2:
a)	Any hourly rated or piece-workemployee who qualitiesfor the following holidays, that is: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, B.C. Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day, under the conditions set out below, shall be paid for the holiday their regular job rate of pay for their regularwork schedule. The hours so paid for the Statutory Holiday shall not be included in the weekly work schedule.
b)	The holiday rate of piece-work employees shall be established by computing their daily average earningsfor days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) days.
c)	An employeeworking on a paid holidayshall be paid, in additionto his/her holiday pay, a rate and one-half for any hours worked on a shift designated as a "Holiday Shift".
d)	An employee, to qualifyfor holiday pay, must have been on the payroll thirty (30) calendardays immediatelyprecedingthe holiday, and must have worked his/her last regularlyscheduledwork day before, and his/her first regularlyscheduled work dayafterthe holiday, unlesshis/her absence was dueto a compensable occupational injury or illness,which occurred within six (6) months precedingthe holiday, or such employee was on authorized leave of absence. In the case of illness or injury the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner. Notwithstandingthe other requirementsof this Section, an employee may only qualifyfor statutory holiday pay if he/she works
30
one (1) day before and one (1) day after the holiday providingthe said two (2) days fall within a ninety (90) calendar day period. Employeeswhile on leave of absence under Article IX Section 6 (a) or any employee while a member of a negotiatingcommittee under Section6 (b) shall notqualifyfor paid statutory holidays.
e)	Employees as defined under Article VIII, Section 11 shall not receive pay for
Statutory Holidays.
Section 3:___Personal Floating Holidays
This Section becomes effective September 1,1978. This Personal Floating Holiday is
in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day but this Section shall come into operation on its
effective date even if Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed.
a)	Personal Floating Holiday
Regularfull time employees will be granted one Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of the Agreement, to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production.
b)	Qualifying Conditions
When the Personal Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his regularjob rate of pay for his regular work schedule, subject to the following conditions:
i)	A new employee must have been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) consecutivecalendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday.
ii)	An employee will not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for more than nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury.
iii)	An employee shall apply on an approved form, at least seven (7) days in advance, for his Personal Floating Holiday. The employee shall receive notice of the disposition of his/her request a minimum of 72 hours priorto the requested Personal Floating Holiday.
iv)	If an employee is requiredto work on his Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date has been designated for such holiday, the employee shall be paid overtime for such work at the rate of time and one-half. The employee will then be entitledto take the holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon.
31 -
v)	Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 15 of each contractyearwill be scheduled by Management.
vi)	A Personal Floating Holidayshall not be scheduled on an employee's regular rest day.
vi)	Where an employee chooses Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday straighttime rates will apply.
vii)	Where an employee chooses Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday straighttime rates will apply.
viii)	The parties agree that effective July 1,2000, employees who have been on the payrollfor not lessthan ninety (90) consecutive days, who terminatetheir employmentand who have not taken their earned personal floating holiday shall receive payment for their
personalfloating holiday. This shall not be construed as an extension of their period of employment.
ARTICLEXIII -CALLTIME
Section 1:
Any employee reportingfor work on the call of the Company shall be paid his/her regular rate of pay for the entire period spent at the place of work in response to the call with a minimum of, in any one day:
a) Two hours pay at the employee's regular rate except when the employee's
condition is such that he is not competent to perform his duties or he has failed to comply with the accident preventionregulationsof the Worker's Compensation Board; or
5) If the employee commences work, four (4) hours pay at his regular rate, except where hiswork is suspended becauseof inclementweather or reasons completely beyond the control of the Company.
Section 2:
Notice cancelling the work call for any Divisionof the Company shall be sufficient if given in the following manner:
a)	First Shift- Noticecancelingthe call for work shall be given the previous evening at 10:00 p.m. and at 10:30 p.m. or not later than one and one-half hours before the shift commences, by meansoftwo broadcastswithin a half hour period.
m Second Shift- Notice cancelingthe callfor work shall be given between 12:00
32
noon and 1:00 p.m., but not laterthan three hours beforethe shift commences, bymeansoftwo broadcastswithina half hour period.
c)	Third Shift - Notice cancelingthe call for work shall be given between 5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., but not laterthan three hours beforethe shift commences.
All broadcastsshall be over StationCKCQ.
ARTICLE XIV- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
When a grievancearises in the plant, underthe terms of this Agreement it shall be dealt
with in the following manner:
a)	The individualemployee and the Job Steward shall first take up the matterwith the foreman in charge of the work, within fifteen (15) days.
b)	If a satisfactorysettlement is notthen reached, it shall be reduced to writing by both Parties when the Committeeshalltake up the grievancewith the Plant Superintendent. If desired, the Union BusinessAgent shall accompany the Committee, and either party shall have the right to requestthe presence of the employee involved.
c)	If the grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Union and Management.
d)	If a satisfactorysettlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
e)	If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage, underb), c), d), or e), within fourteen (14) days after completion of the.preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rightsof recourseto the grievance procedure shall be at an end. Where the Union is not able to observe this time limit by reason of the absence of the aggrieved employee or the Committeefrom the operation, the set time limit shall not apply. The Union shall be bound to proceed in such a case as quickly as may be reasonably possible.
ARTICLE XV - RIGHT OF REFERENCE
Section 1:
If the Companyand the Union fail to agree upon an interpretationof the Agreement
either party shall have the rightto referthe matterto the Joint Industry Committee {hereinafter called '"Joint committee") and if either party does makesuch reference, the other party must accept the reference.
33
Section 2:
The Joint Committee shall consist of three (3) representativesselected by the I.W.A. CANADA, Negotiatingcommittee and three (3) representativesselected by the Company.
Section 3:
Where an interpretation of the Agreement has been referredto the Joint Committee, this reference shall be for the period of forty-eight (48) hours or longer by mutual consent of the parties to this Agreement. In case the Joint Committee agrees upon a recommendationof interpretation,this shall be furnished in writing to the Union and to the Company.
Section 4:
In the event the Joint Committee members disagree all the facts in the case as found by the Union and the Union members <f the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing by the Union representativesand submittedto the Company and to the Union members involved. The facts in the case as found by the Company and the Company members of the Joint Committeeshall be placed in writing and given to the Union member employeesfor their information.
Section 5:
If a satisfactory interpretationon the point in question is not reached, either party may refer the question to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLEXVI -ARBITRATION AND INTERPRETATION
Section 1:	Interpretation
a)	In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretationof this Agreement which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the mattei shall be determined by interpretation in the following manner:
Either party may notify the other party, in writing, by registered mail, of the question or questionsto be interpreted. After receivingsuch notice and statement, each of the parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreter named in this Section.
b)	The decision of the Interpreted 11 be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
c)	It is agreed that_______________________________, shall be the Interpreter for
the purpose of this Section.
34
Inthe event said Interpreteris unable to deal with any matter under this Section, the Partieswill meet and mutuallyagree upon a temporary replacement.
Section 2:	Arbitration
a)	in the case of any dispute arising under this Agreement which the Parties are unableto settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by arbitration in the following manner:
Either party may notifythe other party in writing, by registeredmail, of the question or questionsto be arbitrated. Each of the parties shall, within five (5) days, refer the matter to the chosenArbitrator.
b)	The decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
c)	If any Arbitrator finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employee shall be reinstated by the Company without lossof pay and with all his rights and privileges preserved undertheterm of this Agreement, provided always that if it is shown to the Arbitrator that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge (or suspension) and reinstatement, or date of failure to rehire and re-hiring,the amount so receivedshall be deducted from wages payable by this Company pursuant to this Section.
d)	The parties agree with the principleof One-ManArbitration. The Arbitrator will be chosen on a rotation basis from a group of Arbitratorswhich will be selected by the parties.
In the event either party is dissatisfiedwith the permanentchoice of an Arbitrator, the parties agree that other choices of Arbitrators will be considered by both Parties.
Section 3:
The Company and the Union shall bear in equal proportionsthe expenses and allowances of the Arbitrator and stenographic and secretarial expense and rent.
Section 4:
Any arbitrationto be held hereunder shall be held at the City of Quesnel or such other place as may be decided.
Section 5:	Expedited Arbitration
A Committeeshall beestablishedto develop and implement a system of expedited arbitration of grievances. The chairman of this Committee will beH. Allan Hope,Q.C. The committeeshall reporttothe parties not laterthan December31,1984.
ARTICLEXVII - PAY DAYS
The Company shall provide for pay days every second Wednesday. The employees will be paid during their regularworking hours, and each employee shall be furnished with an itemizedstatement of earnings and monthly deductions.
ARTICLEXVIII ■ GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
Official Union representativesshall obtain access to the Company'soperation for the purposeof this Agreement by written permissionwhich will be granted by the Company on request and subject to such reasonableterms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
Section 2:
The rate of Board and Lodging shall be $2.35 per day
Section 3:	NoStrike Pending GrievanceandArbitration Procedure
The Union shall not cause, promote, sanction or authorizeany strike, sit-down, slowdown, sympatheticstrike or any other interferencewith work by the employees for any cause whatsoever until all provisionsof this Agreement relatingto grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Company.
Section 4:	No Lockout Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Company shall not create or institute any lockout of the employees with respectto any dispute betweenthe Company and the Union, or the Company and its employees until all provisionsof this Agreement relatingto grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusaltb actor misconductof the Union or its employees.
Section 5:
a)	The Union may refuse to handle material produced by a strike bound firm.
-36-
The Union shall have the right to respect another Union's picket line.
b)
Section 6:
The Company shall provide plug-ins (for block heaters only) in the parking lot to accommodateall employees, at no cost to the employees.
Section 7:
It is agreed that the parties to the Agreement will meet jointly to discuss and implement a Planerman'sTraining Program.
Section 8: Permanent Plant Closure
a)	Effective July 1st, 1982, sixty (60) days notice of closure will be provided.
c)	Effective July 1st, 2003, employeesterminated by the Company because of permanentclosureof a manufacturingplant shall be entitled to severance pay equal to ten (10) day's pay for each year of continuous service and thereafter in incrementsof completed monthsof service.
Section 9:	Disciplinary Action
In all instancesof discipline, the company will ensure a shop steward is present unless the employee requests that no shop steward be present. Non-attendanceof a union official will not negate the discipline.
Section 10: Local Issues
The parties agree to a process of ongoing timely resolution of matters as they arise in
operationsduringthe term of the Agreement. Either party may requestthe involvement of Weldwood and IWA-CANADA for the purpose of assistance in the resolution of such matters.
ARTICLE XIX - FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTALCOMMITTEE
Forestry EnvironmentalCommitteesshall be established by the Company and the Local Union.
The details concerning the structure, operationand terms of reference must be agreed to by the Company and the Local Union prior to implementation.
37
ARTICLE XX -MEDICAL AND HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 1:	Medical Coverage
a)	Medical coverage including Extended Health Benefit coverage shall be provided by the Company at no cost to the employee. The Extended Health Benefit coverageshall include hospitalizationcoverage upto a maximum of $8.50 per day.
b)	Medical coverage eligibility shall be the first of the month following date of employment.
c)	Participations the Plan is to be a condition of employment
d)	That the appropriate policies for Medical and Dental coverage be amended to provide coverage for dependentsover the age of twenty-one (21) years but not over the age of twenty-five (25) years, providedthat the dependents are attending a recognizededucationalinstitution.
e)	Effective July 1st, 1982, a Vision Care Program be institutedto provide for payment upto a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period for charges incurredrelativeto the purchaseof lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription. Effective July 1,1995 the maximum will be increasedto one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per member or dependent. Effective July 1,1997, increasethe Vision Care limit by fifty dollars ($50) per 24-month period to a total limit of two hundred dollars ($200) per member or dependent in any 24-month consecutive period. Effective July 1, 1999, increasethe Vision Care limit by a furtherfifty dollars ($50)from the two hundred dollars ($200) to two hundred and fifty dollars ($250) per member or dependent in any 24-month consecutive period.
Physiotherapy- Effective July 1,1995, the Physiotherapist/Massage practitioners'limit will increase by two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) pei calendaryearto atotal limitof five hundred dollars ($500.00) permemberor dependent per calendar year. EffectiveJuly 1, 1997, increasethe Physiotherapist/ Massage Practitioners' limit by fifty dollars ($50) from five hundred dollars ($500) per member or dependent per calendar year to five hundred and fifty dollars ($550) per member or dependent per calendar year.
g)	Chiropractic- EffectiveJuly 1,1995, theChiropractors/Naturpathic Physicians' limit will increase by two hundred dollars ($200.00) per member or dependent per calendaryearto atotal limit of four hundred dollars ($400.00) permemberor dependent per calendar year. EffectiveJuly 1, 1998, increasethe Chiropractors/ Naturopathic Physicians'limit by two hundred dollars ($200) from four hundred dollars ($400) to six hundred dollars ($600) per member or dependent per
38
calendar year.
Orthotics- Effective July 1,1998, establish coveragefor prescribedorthotics with a maximum limit of two hundreddollars ($200) per memberor dependent per calendar year.
Orthopedic Shoes- EffectiveJuly 1,1998, increasethe OrthopedicShoes limit by one hundred dollars ($100) from four hundreddollars ($400) to five hundred dollars ($500) (adults), and from two hundred dollars ($200) to three hundred dollars ($300) (child) per calendar year.
HearingAids- Effective July 1,1999, increasethe HearingAid limit by one hundred and fifty dollars ($150)fromfour hundred dollars every five years for children to five hundred and fifty dollars ($550) every five years. Effective July 1, 1999, establish the same five hundred and fifty dollar ($550) limit per memberor dependent, every five years, unless there is alternate coverage provided for.
Section 2:	Institution
It is agreed that a Health and Welfare Plan be instituted with the principles hereinafter set out.
Section 3:	Provincial Board of Trustees
Weldwood of Canaaa Lim tea, together with Forest industr al Relat ons Limited, the Interor Forest Laoour RelationsAssociation,the Cojnc I on Northern Interor Forest Employee Re at ons, Canadian Forest Proaucts Lim reo, and the I.W.A. CANADA agree to establish one set of trusteesfor the purpose of deve oping a common text, a common trust agreement, ana a common employee oooKlet fortne sx Health ana We fare Plans, covering Life Insurance, AccidentalDeatn and Dismembermentlnsurance,and Weekly Indemnity.
The partiesagreethat a Joint Committee, representng Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour RelationsAssociation.tne Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations. Canadian Forest Products Limited, Weldwood of Canada Limiteo, and the I.W.A CANADA will be established to study the most effective metnod of administration of the Plans, report'ng to the Parties no later tnan July 1.1984
Section 4: Weldwood - I.W.A. Board of Trustees
The Board of Trustees, composed of two (^members representing I.W A. CANADA and two (2) memoers representingthe Company, are responsibleforthe administraton of the IWA - Weldwood Healtn and V\fe fare Plan. The Trustees are also responsible for the selection of carrier, fund ng adjudication of compassionateappeals, and Health and Welfare proo ems directly related to the Plan.
39
Sections:	Insurance Coverage
The following coveragewill be providedby the Company.
a)	Group Life Insurancefor each qualified employee as follows:
effective July 1, 2001, $ 90,000.00 effective July 1, 2002, $ 100,000.00
b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
effective July 1,2001, $ 90,000.00 effective July 1,2002, $ 100,000.00
EffectiveJuly 1, 1994, the Plan will providefor coverage for accidents occurring at work.
c)	Weekly Indemnityas follows:
effective July 1,1995, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten dollars ($10.00) per week so that the benefit level is four hundred and thirty-nine dollars ($439.00) per weeks or 52 weeks.
effective July 1,1996, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten dollars ($10.00) per week so that the benefit level is four hundred and forty-nine dollars ($449.00) per week for 52 weeks.
Effective January 1,1995, a "No Downs" provision be introduced so that the four hundred twenty nine dollar ($429.00) per week ratewill not be reduced by further reductions by U. I.C. of the maximum insurable earnings number.
EffectiveJuly 1,2004, the maximum Weekly Indemnityclaim is limitedto twenty-six (26) weeks.
The Union agrees that if the Company maintains Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits which will meet the standard requirementsfor full premium reductionfor "wage loss replacement plan under the Unemployment InsuranceAct", the employees 5/12th share of the premium reduction is retained as payment in kind in the provisionsof the Weekly IndemnityPlan benefits.
d)	In the case of disability caused by non-occupationali llness, Weekly Indemnity benefits will be payable commencingthe first day of any such absence where the illness results in the claimant being hospitalizedas a bed patient and in cases where surgery is performedwhich necessitates loss of time from work.
-40
e)	Absencesduetothe same or related causes will be considered one continuous absence unlessthe employee returnsto full-timeworkfor at leastfour (4) continuousweeks between absences.
f)	The Officers of I.W.A. CANADA, Local 1-424 shall, upon written request, be permittedto examine statements of premium income, claims and disbursements of the above insurance plan. Such requests will not be granted more frequently than once every three (3) months during the term of this Agreement.
g)	Third Party Subrogation:
The partiesagree to recommendto the Trustees of the Health and Welfare Plan that effective on the date of ratificationof this Memoranduma third party subrogation clause be adopted so that the Weekly IndemnityPlan can be reimbursed from damages recoveredfrom a liable third party for illness, injury or
income loss. The Plan will beentitledto recoverthe full amount of benefits paid to the memberwhich exceeds 100% of the member's pre-disability gross income. Gross income will be calculated by using the member's regular hourlyjob rate times(x)40 hours. Trusteestoworkoutthe applicationand details, includingthe deductionof legal fees from the settlement and the executionof a reimbursement agreement.
h)	A. The Trustees of the l.W.A.-Weldwood Industry Health and Welfare Plan will
Be directed to amend the Plan Text to permit laser surgery (except where such laser surgery is for cosmetic purposes ratherthan for a medical reason) to qualify the memberfor a Weekly Benefit CommencementDate from his/her first day of disability.
B. The Trustees of the l.W.A.-Weldwood Healthand Welfare Plan will be directed to make the necessarychanges in proceduresto allow weekly indemnity cheques to be sent directly to the employee's residence, if requestedby the employee.
i)	Effective J uly 1,2004, the annual Extended Health Care deductible will be
increasedto fifty dollars ($50.00) for single or family coverage.
ii)	Effective January 1, 2007, the annual Extended Health Care deductible will be increasedfrom fifty dollars ($50.00)to seventy-fivedollars ($75.00)for single or family coverage.
iii)	Effective July I 2004 the Extended Health Care Plan shall provide benefits for the surviving spouseand eligible childrenfor a periodof 24 monthsinthe event of the death of an active member
41-
Section fr___Dental Plan
a)	A dental plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
j)	Basic dental services (Plan A) - Plan pays 80% of approved schedule of fees.
jj) Prosthetics, crowns, and bridges (Plan B) - Plan pays60% of approved schedule of fees.
i)	Orthodontic(PlanC)- Plan pays 60% of approved schedule cf fees (lifetime maximum $2,500.00). There shall be no waiting periodfor coverage.
jj) Effective July t, 1998, increasethe lifetime maximum limitfor Plan C (Orthodontic)from $2,500 to $3,000 for children only.
b)	Effective January 1, 2004, the dental plan shall provide benefitsfor the surviving spouse and eligiblechildrenfora period of 24 monthsinthe event of the death of an active member.
Section 7:	General Principles for Health and Welfare and Dental
a)	Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by the Company.
b)	Participation insucha plan shall be compulsory upon all employees. However, effective January 1, 2004, the obligation of the employerto enroll and cover an employeefor M.S.P, is triggered only when the employee is not already covered byM.S.P. by some other means.
c)	Any new employee who has not worked in covered employment in the last eighteen months will be eligible to become a covered employee on the first day (f the month following completion of the probationaryperiod. However, for such employee, coverage for the Medical Services Plan and for the Extended Health Benefit will apply on the first day of the month following the date of employment.
d)	Coveragewill be portable in all units covered by collective agreements between members of Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour
RelationsAssociation,the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations,Canfor Limited, Weldwood of Canada Ltd., and the I.W.A. and there shall be no waiting periodfor qualified employees changingemployers within the Industry.
e)	Coverage during lay-off will be providedas follows:
i) Employeeswith one (1) or more years seniority- six (6) months.
42
jj) Employeeswith more than three (3) months but less than one (1)
year seniority- three (3) months.
iii)	In orderfor reinstatementof lay-off coverage to occur there must be a returnto regularfull-time employment. An employeereturnsto regularfull-timeemploymentwhen he is employedfor 10 working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
iv)	Also, an employee who returnsto work for at least one working day and lessthan 10 working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any lay-off coverage to which he was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
f)	Weekly Indemnitycoverage will be eliminatedfor an employee on an extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Article IX, Section3, Compassionate Leave, provided howeverthat such employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity coverage on the agreed upon day of return to work. In order to qualify for this coverage the employee must have returned to his place of residence in British Columbia unless his disability requiredhim to be hospitalizedand satisfies the requirementsof the claims adjudicationcarrier. In the case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurred during an extended leave of absence, the Trustees have the right to review certain circumstances.
g)	Employeeson extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 3:, Compassionate Leavewill pay their own premiumsfor Medical Services Plan, Extended Health Benefit, and Dental Plan, while the premiumsfor Group Life Insuranceand Accidental Death and DismembermentInsurancewill be paid by the employer during such extended leave of absence.
h)	Effective January 1,1998, the existing Extended Health Benefits Plan will be extendedto incorporatea medicaltravel plan allowancefor necessarymedical travel from remote areas when members or their dependentsare referred by their attending physicianto medical specialists in B.C. and such referrals requiretravel from the patient’s comm unity of employment in excess of 500 kilometers round trip. The maximum allowance payableon behalf of any one member or dependent is $600 over the term of the agreement. A Weldwood - I.W.A. committee will work out all of the details priorto implementation.
EffectiveJuly 1, 2003 the maximum allowance payableon behalf of any one memberordependent is $2,000.00 overtheterm of the agreement, with a maximum of $1,200.00 in any one year.
The partiesagree to participatein a joint study during the term of the Collective Agreement to evaluate ways to:
• More effectively integratethe short and long term disability plans,
43
•	Improvedisability management programsand return to work procedures,
•	Considerways to streamline adjudication procedures, and
•	Lower overall benefit costs.
ARTICLE XXI - LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
a)	The Plan will become effective July 1st, 1982.
b)	Effective July 1,1993, the Plan to be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis with contributionsof twenty-two cents (220) per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute eleven cents (110) and the employee will contribute eleven cents (110).
EffectiveJanuaryl, 1995, contributionsfrom both the Industryandthe employees will be increasedby six cents (66) per hourworked so that contributionswill be thirty-four cents (340) per hour per employee per hourworked of which the industry will contribute seventeen cents (170) and the employee will contribute seventeen cents (170)
EffectiveJuly 1,1995, contributionsfrom both the Industryandthe employees will be increasedby a further two and one-half cents (2340) per hourworked so that contributionswill bethirty-ninecents(390) per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industrywill contribute nineteen and one-half cents (19340) and the employee will contribute nineteen and one-half cents (19340).
Effective October 1, 2000, the contributionsfrom both the industryandthe employee will be increasedby eight cents (80)per hour per employee per hour worked, so that the contributionswill be fifty-five cents (.550) per hour per employee per hourworked of which the industrywill contributetwenty-sevenand one-half cents (27 X 0) and the employeewill contribute twenty-seven and one-half cents (27 34 0).
EffectiveJuly 1,2004, contributionswill be increasedby twenty-five cents (250) per hour to produce a total of eighty cents (800) per hour per employee hour worked, ofwhichthe Industrywill contribute forty cents (400) per hour.
If at any point during the term of the Agreement, the Pian Actuary should determinethat the full amount of the increaseincontributionsis no longer required to amortize the unfunded liability over the 10 year period contemplated by this Agreement, the ex cess contributionswill be discontinued by each party accordingly.
c)	A Board of Trustees will be constituted with equal representationfrom the Union and the Industry, to be responsiblefor establishingthe terms of the Plan and the on-going administration.
44
d)	The Trustees will select a qualified actuary to assist them and to insure the establishmentof actuariallysound reservesto fund the benefits provided by the Plan.
e)	The Trustees will enter into a Trust Agreement which will include provisionfor a procedureto settle any major dispute that may arise with regard to the provisions of the Plan.
f)	Protection Against Withdrawals- Withdrawing employer to be assessed for both the employer and employee share of the unfunded liability in cases of negotiated withdrawal, decertification or relocationclosure. Unfundedliability formula to be uniformand based on Plan Unfunded Liability divided by the total number of Plan member (at the time of most recent Plan Valuation) multiplied by the number of Plan members affected by the withdrawal. Trustees to be directed to amend the participationagreement accordingly.
Weidwood and I.W.A. Canada will jointly consider plan modificationsthatwill improvethe delivery of Rehabilitationwithin the Long Term Disability Plan, and will encourage and facilitate the developmentand establishmentof Disability Management systems in participatingemployers' operations.
The Trustees are directed to develop Plan modificationsthat will:
Improve the timeliness, effectivenessand quality of Rehabilitationfrom the Plan.
ii)	Provideincentivesto Employers and Local Unions to establish Disability Management systems at the operations level.
In the event that there are savingsto the Long Term Disability Plan as a result of either DisabilityManagement Systems, or amendments to Rehabilitation, consideration can be given to dispersal of these funds for further improvements in either of the above areas.
Where the Trustees reach agreement on modificationsin the above areas, implementationcan occur at the direction of the Trustees. Should additional funding be requiredto implement the Trustees recommendations,their recommendations will be forwarded to the respective Negotiating Committeesto be dealt with.
g)	Effective July 1,2004, employees who become disabled on or after July 1,2004 shall be eligibleto apply for Long Term Disability benefits after a 26 week qualifying period.
.45
ARTICLE XXII - PENSION PLAN
Section 1
The Parties agree to establish a Pension Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Memorandumof Agreement of the Pension Sub-Committee dated August 17,1977.
Section 2:
a)	The Industrycontributionto the Pension Plan of one dollar seventy cents ($1.70) per hour per employee per hour worked, which became effective July 1,1988, will be increased by seventy cents (700) per hour, effective July 1, 1992, to two dollars forty cents ($2.40) per hour per employee per hour worked. Effective July 1,1993, employee contributionsof ten cents (100) per hour per employee per hour worked will be added to the above contribution rate.
Additional contributionswill be in accordance with the Memorandumcf Agreement signed on September 7, 2000.
Additional contributionswill be in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement signed on June 15, 2004.
b)	Unfunded Liability
Address the Plan's Unfunded Liability Issue by providing a one-time contribution of forty-four cents (440) per hour on November 1,1994, and an additional onetime contribution cf forty-four cents (440) per hour on July 1,1995. Theses contributionswill be based on all IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan hours worked by each of the partiesof the first part during the 1993 and 1994 calendar years respectivelyand require no change to the ongoing shared $2.50/hour contribution rate for the term of this agreement.
These contributions, if matched by other Pension Plan Participating Employers, will result in the following projectionsofthe unfunded actuarial liability based on contributory hours of 47.3 million hours in 1994, declining to 46 million hours in 1995, and declining by one million hours per year in each succeeding year to 2001, using a 8% interestassumptionfor solvency purposes,the Revised Mortality Basis, and Triennial Valuations:
1/1/94	$553.9 million
1/1/95	$461.6 million
1/1/96	$370.3 million
1/1/97	$283.7 million
1/1/98	$228.8 million
1/1/99	$171.2 million
1/1/2000	$111.0 million
46
These contributionswill allow the unfunded actuarial liability to be fully amortized in 7.7 years from 1/1/94. (The amortization period in the Preliminary Actuarial Valuation of December31,1993 is 9.1 years from that date)
c)	Revised Plan
A revised pianwill be developed during the life of the agreement, based on the $2.50 contribution rate during the life of the Agreement in accordance with Appendix #1 of the August 11,1997 Memorandum.
d)	Bridging Funds
The I.W.A. - Forest Industry Pension Plan Trustees will bedirectedto investigate the feasibility and implicationsof amending the Plan to allow Company paid bridgingfunds to "flow through"the Plan so as to enhance legal tax effectiveness.
e)	Graduated Retirement
Wefdwood and the Union will participateon a committeeto explore and implement changes during the term of the agreement.
ARTICLEXXIII -APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Section 1:
a)	The Company and the Union agree to institutethe ApprenticeshipTraining Program for Tradesmen as outlined in this Agreement. The following trades to be part of the Apprentice Training Program:
Carpenters	Millwrights
Electricians	Pipefitters-Steamfitters
Welders	Forklift& Carrier Mechanics
Heavy Duty Mechanics	Fitters, Filers and Benchmen
Machinists
b)	Where the Company requires a person or persons to maintaina valid pressure certificate, they will notify the Local Union. The Company will pay the cost of the examination fee and fare allowance and lost time wages for the taking of the exam.
c)	If an official of the Departmentof Public Works requireswelder to attend school, and the Company at their discretion still requires the pressure certificate, the Company will pay the cost d: the examinationfee, fare allowance, and net lost time wages.
d)	That a Committee will be establishedto review and upgradethe Apprenticeship Training Program.
47
Section 2:	Selection of Apprentice Procedure
1)	PURPOSE
The purpose of this agreement is to establishan equitable criteriawhich will give managementreasonable assurancethat the apprentice, upon completionof his indentureship,will become a proficienttradesman and to assure the Union and its members that the senior applicant who meets the criteria will become an apprentice.
2)	EDUCATIONAL PREREQUISITES
The educational requirementfor generaltrades in Grade 10 or equivalent and Grade 12 or equivalentforthe electrical trades.
3)	APTITUDE TESTING
Applicantswill be tested in accordancewith the bank of tests as recommended
by the ApprenticeshipBranch of the Ministry of Labour. Testing procedure will
be as follows:
a)	A standard set of testing instructions and procedures will be developed and authorized by the parties to this agreement and communicated to appropriate managementand union personnel
b)	The passing grade for the tests will be established by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour.
c)	The passing marks for the MechanicalTrades and Electricaltests are established as being a combined requirement of, firstly, seventy percent (70%) in the MechanicalAptitude and Space Relationssegments of the tests, and, secondly, seventy percent (70%) in the overall final scoring of the tests.
d)	All scoring computationsof percentagesin each section and overall scores of the tests are recordedas being rounded off to the next highest percentage point where any fraction of a percentage point exists.
e)	Tests will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by Management: a Union representativewill be present when the tests are given and marked.
f)	Tests recommended for the self-evaluationwill be made available and may be taken by an interested employee. Failureto take such tests shall notjeopardize an employee's applicationfor any apprenticeship.
g)	Apprenticeship SelectionTests will be amended to provide improved selection criteria as in place in the Southern Interior.
h)	Duringthe term of the 2003-2009 Agreement, Weldwood and the Union will jointly seek access to Federal Government programsto decrease industry costs and increase apprentice benefits.
j\ Inthefirstyearofthe2003-20Q9 Agreement, Weldwood and the Union will explore avenuesto increase apprenticesand to enhance the current apprentice selectioncriteria.
4)	RE-TESTING
a)	It is agreed that where an applicant has failed to pass the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relationssection of either the Mechanical or Electricaltests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-testedone (1) additional time for each test.
b)	Resultsof all tests will be retained on file in the Company's office. An applicant who has met the criteria and successfully passedthe requisite test and is the senior for any future apprenticeship postingwithin a three (3) year period, will be considered the successful applicant.
C) An applicant who qualifiesand has passedthe MechanicalAptitude and Space Relationssection of any of the availabletests, but failed the overall tests, will be eligible to bid and be re-tested for any future apprenticeship posting.
5)	MAINTENANCE. MONITORING.AND DISTRIBUTION OF TESTS
a)	Sufficient copies of the tests, answer sheets, and marking overlayswill be maintained by Weldwood of Canada Limited, Vancouver Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia.
b)	Test materialswill be supplied on requestto those operations requiring same and will be returned immediatelyafter use.
C) Use of the tests will be monitored by Weldwood of Canada, Vancouver Head Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour the Province of British Columbia. Such monitoringwill maintain a record of applicants' tests, successful applicants' scores recorded,seniority applied, and provide a follow-up of the successful applicants' progress throughout training and an appropriate post training period. Other
49
informationas deemed necessaryby the partiesto this agreement will be made available as agreed.
6)	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The successfulapplicant will be given a probationary period up to ninety (90) calendar days.
7)	SELECTION REVIEW
Where a dispute arises out of the selection of an apprentice, that cannot be resolved at the plant level, the matter will be discussed by Managementand the Local Union.
8)	TRIAL PERIOD
This agreement is for a twelve (12) month trial period, from the date of this agreement. Either party may terminate this agreement upon one (1) month's written notice after the completionof the eleventh month.
ARTICLE XXIV - EVALUATION
Section 1:	Plywood Evaluation
a)	The Parties agree to makejoint applicationfor the services of the evaluatorsfrom Forest Industrial Relationsand I.W.A. CANADA, when these services are necessaryfor the purpose (f evaluatingor re-evaluatingcategoriesin the plywood division of the Company.
b)	Where Forest Industrial Relationsand I.W.A. CANADA have agreed to changes in the present Plywood Evaluation Plan, the Company and the Local Union agree to meet to discuss the possible implementationof these changes in the Company's operations covered by this Agreement. No implementationof changes may be made without prior agreement between the Company and the Local Union.
Section 2: Sawmill Rate Determination
The Sawmill Rate DeterminationProgramas negotiatedbetween Forest Industrial RelationsAssociationand Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada, will be instituted in accordancewith Schedule No. 5.
-50-
ARTICLEXXV -TRAVEL TIME - SCALERS
Section 1:
a)	Marshalling points to be established by mutual agreementfor Scalers
b)	Travel time shall be paid for at straight time rates for time in excess of eight and one-half (8%) hours in any one day between leaving the designated marshalling point, and returningto the said point, provided always that the said eight and one-half (8%) hour period is based upon one-half hour for lunch and may be extended to a maximum of a further fifteen minuteswhere the lunch time exceeds one-haif hour.
c)	Employeesaway from the designated marshalling point in excess often (10) hours shall be paid at rate and one-halffor the period in excess of ten (10) hours.
d)	The Company shall avoid unnecessary delay in transporting employees from the marshalling point to the place of work and return.
ARTICLEXXVI -TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Section 1: Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the Shop Committeeand the Union six (6) months in advance of intent to institutechanges in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or laying off-of employees.
Section 2:	Retraining
The Company shall co-operatewith the Government of British Columbiaand participate in every way possible in training or re-trainingof employees so affected.
Section 3:	Rate Adjustment
a) An employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of mechanization, technologicalchange or automation will receivethe rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setbackfor a period ofthree (3) monthsandfor a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regularjob. At the end of this six (6) month periodthe rate of his/her new regularjob will apply. However, such employee will have the option of terminating his/her employment and accepting severance pay asoutlined in Section 4 below, providing he/she exercises this option withinthe above-referred-to six (6) month period
-51
b) Followingan applicationof (a) above, where an employee is set backto a lower paid job becauseof an applicationof Article VIM - Seniority broughton by mechanization,technologicalchange or automationhe/she will receivethe rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setbackfor a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) monthshe/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setbackand the rate of his/her new regularjob. At the end of this six (6) month periodthe rate of his/her new regularjob will apply.
Section 4:	Severance Pay
Employeesdischarged, laid off or displaced from their regular job because of mechanization,technologicalchange or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of seven (7) day's payfor each year of servicewith the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlementshall not exceed a maximum of two hundred and ten (210) day's pay. This Section shall not apply to employees covered by Section 3(b) above.
ARTICLE XXVII -SAFETY EQUIPMENT
Section 1:
a) Where the following articles of equipmentare requiredto be used by the Company or by the Worker's CompensationBoard,the Company shall:
1.	Supply new employees with the articles of equipment as required
2.	Supply employees movingto another departmentwith the articles of equipmentthey require and that they do not have at the time of the move, or
3.	Replacearticlesof equipmentas requiredwhen they are presentedworn or damaged beyond repair by an employee at no cost to the employee.
1.	Aprons
2.	Hard Hats
3.	Welding goggles, etc.
4.	Flotationequipment
5.	Dust protection
6.	Eye protection
7.	Ear protection
8.	Gloves
Notwithstandingthe foregoing all articles of equipment to be replaced only when they are presentedworn or damaged beyond repair; otherwisethe replacement will be at the expense of the employee.
Tne company s prepared to replace damaged workboots as per Item #11 of the Memorandum of Agreement dated June 15, 2004
b)	Tne Company shall be requiredio make available at cost, to those employees who are required io wear them, the following articles
1	Safety shoes
2	Rain gear
3.	Coveralls
An employee who is required to wear caulk boots by the Worker's Compensat on Board shall receive annualy a caul* ooot allowance cf
Effective Jl y 1, 1994-SI2000
j)	If he has six (6) months or more seniority, or
jj)	Upon obtaining six (6) months seniority,
iij) Season lay-off shall not interferewith the qualifying period herein.
c)	Companiesthat supplied safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date of this Agreement, will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
ARTICLE XXVIII -TOOL INSURANCE
a)	The Company shall, upon the signing of the Coast Master Agreement, at its expense, insure for damage or loss caused by fire or flood, the tools of its employeeswhich are required to be used in the performanceof their work.
b)	The Company shall, upon the signing of the Coast Master Agreement, at its expense, insurethe tools of its employees which are requiredto be used in the performanceof their work, for loss by theft where the tools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subjectto a deductible of $50.00 in respect of each employee's claim.
ARTICLE XXIX -CONTRACTING OUT
a)	The Company will not contract out any work that is performed by employees in the Bargaining Unit at the effective date of the agreement.
T
b)	Current practicesin operations shall be agreed on with the Local Union in writing. Until such time as agreement is reached the above Clause (A) only will apply.
53
ARTICLE XXX- EDUCATION TRUST FUND (THE FUND)
The Parties agree to establish a Fund based on the following parameters:
1.	The Fund to be structured so as to comply with all requirements of a trust as specified by Revenue Canada.
2.	The Industrywill contributeto the Fund and will continue such contributions
throughoutthe period of the CollectiveAgreement. The contributions will be one cent (1$) per hour per employee per hourworked effective January 1, 1998; and, one cent (10) per hourperemployee per hourworked effective July 1, 1998; and, one cent (10) per hour per employee per hourworked effective July 1,1999.
3.	The Funds will be collected by the IWA-Forest Industry pension plan Office and directed to the EducationTrust Fund.
4.	The Fund will bejointly trusteed by representativesas appointed by the
I.W.A. Canada and the industry.
5.	The Fund will be subject to annual audits by an independent public accountingfirm selected by the Trustees.
6.	The Fund will provide funding for the purpose as defined by the following:
Education Fund Policy Statement
The strength of the IWA Canada relieson the continued commitment of the membershipto effect positive change. There is an increasingneed for our
leaders and membershipto understandand respond to emerging issues affecting the forest industryand/or our membership. We needto renew and build upon the historic principlesof the IWA Canada through a comprehensiveeducation program which will enrich union membership and
enhance the objectives of the IWA Canada as a proud and progressive union
To this end, the union will develop and deliver a wide range of programs which may include:
Grievance Handling Collective Bargaining Environmental Issues Land Use Issues
StewardsTraining
ParliamentaryProcedure& Public Speaking
54
CommunicationSkills LeadershipTraining Economiclssues Benefits Training Health and Safety Union History
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Fund will be used to develop and deliver programs,and to pay for administrationcosts, time lost from work to attend education and training, travel, accommodation and such other reasonable costs as the Working Committeedetermines appropriate regarding the operation and administration of the Fund.
7.	The Working Committeewill be comprised of representativesof each
participating Local Union who would have responsibilityfor the development and delivery of Education and Training and Administrationof Funds
consistent with the purposestated in point 6 above.
ARTICLE XXXI - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1:
This Agreement is a renewal and revision of the previous CollectiveAgreement entered
into between the Company and the Union on July 1st, 2000.
Section 2:
a)	The Parties hereto mutually agreethat this Agreementshall be effective from and after the 1st day of July, 2003, to midnightthe 30th day of June, 2009, and thereafter from year to yearunlesswritten notice of contrary intention is given by either Partyto the other Party within four (4) months immediatelypreceding the date of expiry.
The notice required hereundershall be validly and sufficientlyserved at the Head Office of the Party of the First Part, or at the Local Office upon the Local Officers of the Union, Party of the Second Part, within four (4) months immediately precedingthe 1st day of July, 2009. If no Agreement is reachedatthe expiration of this Contractand negotiationsare continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time an Agreement is reached or until negotiationsare discontinuedby either Party.
b)	The Parties hereto agree that the operation of Sections 50(2 and 50{3)of the Labour Relations Code of British Columbia, R.S.B.C. 1992, C82 is excluded from thisAgreement.
55
DATEDthis 20th day of January, 2005.
FOR:	AND:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD.	I.WA CANADA
56
SCHEDULE NO. 1
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED, (CARIBOO DIVISION) EVALUATEDCATEGORIES ■ PLYWOOD PLANT GRADE AND RATE CHART
Group Level	Effective July 1, 2003	Effective July 1, 2004	Effective July 1, 2005	Effective July 1, 2006	Effective July 1, 2007	Effective July 1, 2008
1	$21.92	$22.36	$22,805	$23.26	$23,725	$24,435
2	22.07	22.51	22.96	23.42	23.89	24.605
3	22.21	22.655	23.11	23.57	24.04	24.76
4	22.35	22.795	23.25	23.715	24.19	24.915
5	22.56	23.01	23.47	23.94	24.42	25.155
6	22.72	23.175	23.64"	24.115	24.595	25.335
7	22.955	23.415	23.885	24.365	24.85	25.595
8	23.15	23.615	24.085	24.565	25.055	25.805
9	23.35	23.82	24.295	24.78	25.275	26.035
10	23.565	24.035	24.515	25.005	25.505	26.27
11	23.785	24.26	24.745	25.24	25.745	26.51
12	23.975	24.455	24.945	25.445	25.955	26.735
13	24.20	24.685	25.18	25.685	26.20	26.985
14	24.46	24.95	25.45	25.96	26.48	27.275
15	24.67-1/2	25.17	25.675	26.19	26.715	27.515
16	24.93-1/2	25.435	25.945	26.465	26.995	27.805
17	25.18-1/2	25.69	26.205	26.73	27.265	28.085
18	25.43-1/2	25.945	26.465	26.995	27.535	28.36
19	25.69-1/2	26.21	26.735	27.27	27.815	28.65
20	26.01	26.53	27.06	27.60	28.15	28.995
21	26.36	26.885	27.425	27.975	28.535	29.39
-57
Group Level	Effective July 1, 2003	Effective July 1, 2004	Effective July 1, 2005	Effective July 1, 2006	Effective July 1, 2007	Effective July 1, 2008
22	26.705	27.24	27.785	28.34	28.905	29.77
23	27.015	27.555	28.105	28.665	29.24	30.115
24	27.34	27.885	28.445	29.015	29.595	30.485
25	27.68	28.235	28.80	29.375	29.965	30.865
26	28.00	28156	29.13	29.715	30.31	31.22
27	28.35	28.915	29.495	30.085	30.685	31.605
58
EVALUATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD PLANT
GRADE2
Power Sweeper Operator
GRADE3
#3 Dryer Feeder Lathe Charger Attendant Panel Bin Attendant
GRADE4
Press Helper
#1 &#2 Dryer FeederA/acuum Feed Lathe Charger Attendant/Lathe Trainee Utility Man
Green Chain Offbearer Barker Building Utility
GRADE5
Chip Car Loader Dryer Grader- Offbearer Strip Saw Operator Sheathing Grader Attendant- Lathe Trainee Chipper Operator
GRADE6
Strapper MachineOp/Stencilling
GRADE7
Patch LinePatcher
HeadG/C man
Asst Hot Press Op - #2 Press
GRADE8
Dryer Grader Offbearer/Cert. D.O. Oiler
Stacker/Strapper Op Dryer Grader Stacker Attd.
Chip n Saw Attendant/Stud Offbearer
GRADE9
ForkliftOp- Green End ForkliftOp — Finishing End Tallyman
ForkliftOp - Veneer & Spreader Press Glue Mixer
ForkliftOp - Shipping/Tally Veneer Composer Operator
GRADE 10
Log Loader- Vat Loading Log Loader- Vat Unloading Sander Grader Operator
GRADE 11
Chip Loader Operator
GRADE 12
#1 Log Saw Op Standby Lather Operator/
Charger Attendant Ring Barker Op Twin
GRADE 13
Sizing Unit & Grade Line Operator GRADE 14
#2 Hot Press Operator
GRADE15
Sander Op.
Dryer Operator
Dryer Operator- Weekends
Grinderman
GRADE 19
#1 Hot Press Operator
GRADE 26
#1 Lathe Operator
59
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
Effective July 1, 2003
$21.92
22.09
22.285
22.455
22.655 22.975
23.29 23.575
23.905
24.29
24.735
25.15
25.555 25.99
26.385 26.795
27.24
27.655
28.05
28.59 29.095
29.61 30.13
GROUP AND RATE CHART
Effective July 1, 2004
$22.36
22.53
22.73
22.905
23.11
23.435
23.755
24.045
24.385
24.775
25.23
25.655
26.065
26.51
26.915
27.33
27.785
28.21
28.61
29.16
29.675
30.20
30.735
Effective July 1, 2005
$22.80
22.98
23.185
23.365
23.57
23.905
24.23
24.525
24.875
25.27
25.735
26.17 26.585 27.04 27.455
27.875
28.34
28.775
29.18 29.745
30.27 30.805
31.35
Effective July 1, 2006
$23.26
23.44
23.65
23.83
23.04
24.385 24.715 25.015 25.375
25.775
26.25 26.695 27.115
27.58
28.005 28.435
28.905
29.35 29.765 30.34
30.875 31.42 31.975
Effective July 1, 2007
$23,725
23.91
24.125
24.315
24.52
24.875
25.21
25.515
25.885
26.29
26.775
27.23
27.93
28.13
28.565
29.005 29.485 29.935
30.36 30.945 31.495
32.05 32.615
60
LUMBER WAGE SCALE
ESTABLISHEDBY THE SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
GROUP2
Clean-Up Utility Clock Watchman
GROUP3
Kiln Strip Operator Package Unit Helper Trim Block Piter
GROUP4
Car Loader
GROUP5
Deckchaser-Sawmill Bin Attendant - Planer Log Bander Operator
GROUP6
DeckChaser/Flow Control
Twin Chimer Ooerator/Setup
Stacker Operator - Planer
Bin Attendant- Sawmill
PlanerTilt HoistOperator/Bad End Trim
GROUP7
Site Residual
Drop Sort Operator
Trim Saw Attendant
Auto Package Press Operator
Stacker Operator/Sawmill/Reman Belt
GROUP8
PlanerFeeder/Reman Belt Forklift Operator- Sawmill Forklift Operator- Shipping Forklift Operator- Kilns Forklift Operator - Planer Outfeed Forklift Operator - Planer Infeed Short Log Deck Operator
GROUP 9
Grader#2/Lumber Straightner Forklift Operator- Kiln Attendant
GROUP 10
#2 and #3 Cutoff Saw Operator
Twin Barker Operator
Cant Gang Edger Operator (horizontal
D/A)
Operator
GROUP 11
#1 Cutoff Saw Operator
Lie. Scaler/Weighmaster/Quality Control
GROUP 12
Log Loader Operator- Cat 966 GROUP 13
Main Edger/Reman Drop
Log Loader Operator- Cat 980 (Hi-Lift)
ButtN Top Operator(Madill)
GROUP 14
Log Loader Operator- Wagner L130 GROUP 15
GSLA Grader / Grader Reader GROUP 18
Canter/Quad/Edger Operator
-61 -
MAINTENANCE-ALL DIVISIONS
I
Effective June 15, 2003
Trades -Manufacturing Machinist Carpenter Electrician
Heavy Duty Mechanic
Millwright
Pipefitter/ Steamfitter Journeyman (with certificate) $28,555 Journeyman	28.055
lmprover(3rdYear complete)	24.82
lmprover(2nd Year complete)	24.16
Helper(1st Year complete)	23.57
Helper	23.255
Effective
June 15, 2004
$29,125
28.625
25.315
24.645
24.04
23.72
Effective Effective Jine15, June 15, 2005	2006
Effective Effective
June 15, June 15, 2007	2008
$29.71
29.21
25.82
25.14
24.52
24.195
$30,305
29.805
26.335
25.645
25.01
24.68
$30.91
30.41
26.86
26.16
25.51
25.175
$31,835
31.335
27.665
26.945
26.275
25.93
Welder (Weldwood 101) Welder <(DPW#1 or #2)
28.555
28.45
*29.125 *29.71	*30.305 *30.91	*31.835
28.905	29.485	30.075	30.675	31.595
*NOTE Must be qualified underthe Weldwood 101 standard welding specification and either havingcompletedthe three year apprenticeshipprogram or have worked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours.
II	Filing Room Benchman (with certificate) Benchman
Benchman Helper Circular Saw Filer (with Certificate)
Circular Saw Filer Saw Filer Helper Saw Fitter (with Certificate) Saw Fitter
Saw Fitter(1st Year complete) Saw Fitter Helper
III	Engineers&Firemen 2nd Class Engineer 3rd Class Engineer
4th Class Engineer
$29.38	$29.97	$30.57
28.88	29.46	30.05
28.555	29.125	29.71
28.555	29.125	29.71
28.055	28.615	29.185
28.125	28.69	29.265
28.125	28.69	29.265
27.625	28.18	28.745
24.16	24.645	25.14
23.255	23.72	24.195
$29.89	$30.49	$31.10
28.555	29.125	29.71
27.035	27.575	28.125
$31.18	$31,805 $32.76
30.65	31.265	32.205
30.305	30.91	31.835
30.305	30.91	31.835
29.77	30.365	31.275
29.85	30.445	31.36
29.85	30.445	31.36
29.32	29.905	30.80
25.645	26.16	26.945
24.68	25.175	25.93
$31.72	$32,355 $33,325
30.305	30.91	31.835
28.69	29.265	30.145
62
Effective Effective June 15, June 15, 2003	2004
Effective	Effective Effective
June 15, June 15, June 15, 2005	2006	2007
Fireman (4,h Class Ticket)	25.19
Fireman	23.12
25.695	26.21	26.735	27.27
23.58	24.05	24.53	25.02
IV Miscellaneous
Grindemian Head Oiler#1 Oiler #1 Yard Bucker
$20,085
25.09
24.735
25.06
$20,485
25.59
25.23
25.56
$20,895
26.10
25.735
26.07
$21,315
26.62
26.25
26.59
$21.74
27.15
26.775
27.12
First Aid
Job Rate Plus:
Level2 certificate	500 per hour
Level3 certificate	850 per hour
63
Effective June 15, 2008
28.09
25.77
$22.39
27.965
27.58
27.935
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD. - QUESNEL OFFICE WAGE SUPPLEMENT
GROUP1
GROUP2
GROUP3
Receptionist Accounts Payable Clerk
GROUP4
Acct/Stats Clerk Personnel Clerk P/W
GROUP6
Woods Clerk
GROUP7
Storeskeeper Senior Clerk Planer
GROUP8
Senior Payroll Clerk Woods Junior Clerk Personnel/Payroll Clerk Lumber
GROUP9
PurchasingClerk
Effective	Effective	Effective
June 15, June 15, June 15, 2003	2004	2005
19.22	19.60	19.99
19.74	20.13	20.53
20.61	21.02	21.44
21.49	21.99	22.43
22.61	23.06	23.52
23.38	23.85	24.33
24.73	25.22	25.72
25.68	26.19	26.71
Effective	Effective	Effective
June 15, June 15, June 15, 2006	2007	2008
20.39	20.80	21.42
20.94	21.36	22.00
21.87	22.31	22.98
22.88	23.34	24.04
23.99	24.47	25.20
24.82	25.32	26.08
26.23	26.75	27.55
27.24	27.78	28.61
64
SCHEDULE NO. 2
BIDDING PROCEDURE Plywood Division
1.	The Bid Sheet shall be posted on the plant bulletin board for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours.
2.	The Personnel Departmentshall screen bid sheets for the successfulbidder on the basis of seniority and competency.
3.	The Personnel Manager shall maintain a list of successful bidders on the plant bulletin board which list shall accumulatefor three (3) months. As the successful
biddersare selected, their namesshall be entered with the date and, if possible, the date thejob becomes effective. AH bids shall be entered five (5)daysafter the bid sheet comes down. Successful bids shall become effective on the 6th working day after the bid sheet comes down.
4.	A "Successful Bid Sheet" shall be publishedweekly with copies given to the Department Superintendent, Foreman'sOffice, Payroll Section and Committee.
5.	In the eventthe Personnel Managerand/or Superintendentand the employee concerned and/or CommitteeChairman cannot settle on an effective date which has been delayed because of exceptional conditions, a Committee meeting shall be held to appraise the exceptionalconditions. Failing settlement in this manner, grievance procedure shall be instigated.
6.	(a) When commencing employmentat Weldwood of Canada Ltd., all
employees automatically become part of a "labour pool". To get out of the labour pool and acquire departmentalseniority employees must bid on postedjobs or be placed on a job where no one else has bid.
(b)	Alternatively, employees may find themselves in the labour pool owing to insufficientdepartmental seniorityto remain in their department;
(i)
00
in case of curtailmentof forces; or
in case of the disappearanceof jobs owing to technical
change.
(c)	In the event that senior employees in the labour pool fail to bid, the
Company and the Committeeshall make every effort to place such employees. In regardto employees as defined under Sub-section(b) (i) an (b) (ii) above:
(j) Placementbythe Company and the Committeeshall not interferewith the employee's right to return automaticallyto
-65
the jobs which they held before reductionwhen the jobs are re-established;
(ii)	The ninety (90) day bidding restriction (see Article 8 below)
does not apply, and;
(jjj)	Nothing contained in (c) (i) to (iii) above shall interfere with
the application ofSection 5(d) of Article VIII.
(d)	Any employee in the labour pool who refuses a job in line with his seniority on any given day shall relinquishhis seniority rights for that day.
7.	When more than one employee bids on a job and the successful bidderfails to qualify, all employees who bid shall be considered beforethe job is re-posted. However, if the job is not filled within six (6) weeks, it shall be re-posted.
8.	The foregoing bidding procedure may be revised annually.
-66
SCHEDULE NO. 3
(REFERENCE: SEE ARTICLE XXIII)
PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
1.	Principles and Procedures:
The implementation and administrationof the job evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles and proceduresas set out in a manual dated
September, 1955, and entitled "Job Evaluation Manualfor Operational Hourly Paid Jobs in the Plywood Industryof "British Columbia"as amended July 1,1966 and as further amended April, 1971 (herein referredto as the "Manual").
2.	PointRanae and Increment:
All jobs in Group One, the point rangeofwhich is 0 to 81, shall bepaidthe minimum rate for common labouras provided in Article IX, Section 1. The point rangefor subsequent groups shall beten (10), i.e. Group Two (82-91), Group Three (92-101), etc. The wage increment curve for the plywood industry is as follows:
Group Level	Effective July 1, 2003	Effective July 1, 2004	Effective July 1, 2005	Effective July 1, 2006	Effective July 1, 2007	Effective July 1, 2008
1	$21.92	$22.36	$22,805	$23.26	$23,725	$24,435
2	22.07	22.51	22.96	23.42	23.89	24.605
3	22.21	22.655	23.11	23.57	24.04	24.76
4	22.35	22.795	23.25	23.715	24.19	24.915
5	22.56	23.01	23.47	23.94	24.42	25.155
6	22.72	23.175	23.64	24.115	24.595	25.335
7	22.955	23.415	23.885	24.365	24.85	25.595
8	23.15	23.615	24.085	24.565	25.055	25.805
9	23.35	23.82	24.295	24.78	25.275	26.035
10	23.565	24.035	24.515	25.005	25.505	26.27
11	23.785	24.26	24.745	25.24	25.745	26.51
12	23.975	24.455	24.945	25.445	25,955	26.735
						
67-
3.	Industry Job Evaluation Committee:
There shall be a committee constituted and named the IndustryJob Evaluation Committee (herein referred to as the "Plywood Evaluation Committee) to consist of one memberrepresentativeofthe Company, and one member representative of Regional Council No. 1, Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada.
4.	Function of Plywood Evaluation Committee:
(a)	The Plywood EvaluationCommittee shall assume general responsibility for the administrationof the job evaluation program.
(b)	The unanimousdecisionof the said Committee shall befinal and binding on the Parties hereto.
5.	Plant Job Review Committee
(a)	There shall be a committee constituted in each Plywood Plant named the Plant Job Review Committee(herein referredto as the "Review
-68-
Committee"), to consist of two (2) members representative of Management and two (2Jmembers representative of the employees. At least one (1) representativeof Management must be a member cf the Plant's salaried staff or Management, and at least one representativeof the employees must be an employee cf the Plant whosejob is subject to Plywood Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representativefrom amongst persons not employed at the plant, and the Union may do likewiseexcept that neither Party may choose as its representative a member of the Plywood Evaluation Committee or any person who is employed as a Job Evaluator by Forest Industrial Relations Limited or by RegionalCouncil No. 1 cfthe Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada.
-69
(b)	The Company shall reimburseany of its hourly paid employees for time lost while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, regarding his/her own job, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsiblefor remuneratingemployee representativeswho are not its hourly paid employees.
6.	Function of Review Committee
The Review Committeewill be responsiblefor seeing that all requestsfor evaluation or re-evaluationof jobs are adequatelyand accurately documented before being passedto the Plywood EvaluationCommittee for further action. The documents required will include a "Request for Job Evaluation"form submitted either by an individualemployee or by local Management, and a fully completed Job Description which provides sufficient informationforthe subsequent work of the Plywood Evaluation Committee. The form of the documents, the proceduresfor submitting and handlingthem, and the time limits for completionmay be amended as required by the Plywood EvaluationCommittee underthe authority given them by Article 3 of this supplement.
1(b)	Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriatenessof a
requestfor evaluation or re-evaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreementwithin the establishedtime limit, the Review Committee shall, at the request of any one of its members, immediatelyforward the Requestfor Job Evaluation,together with any other documents on which there is unanimousagreement, to the Plywood EvaluationCommittee and shall then have no further responsibilityfor documenting that request.
(c)	When the Plywood EvaluationCommittee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job, it shall communicate that decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committeewill be responsiblefor informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasonsfor the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committeethat an Applicationfor Job Evaluationshould not be forwarded to the Plywood Evaluation Committee will, similarly, be communicatedwith reasons to those concerned.
(d)	Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Plywood EvaluationCommittee
to determine the facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend any job, descriptionor specification, submittedto them in support of a Requestfor Job Evaluation form.
-70-
7. Application of Program:
The job evaluation programshall apply to all employees in the plywood industry except Journeymen, Tradesmen, Improvers, Helpers and Powerhouseand Boom Crews.
a.	Direction cf Work:
Job Evaluationdescriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirementsof the job and shall not be construed as imposingany restrictionon the right of the Company to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, providedalways that if the assignment of such duties changes the job content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation the Plywood EvaluationCommittee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure as set out herein.
9.	Re-Evaluation:
(a)	When a job has moved to another grade as a result of re-evaluation,the wage rate for the new grade shall be effective on the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation.
(b)	When a job is moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation,the incumbent shall maintain his/her job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisionsof Paragraph 11(c) herein.
10.	New Jobs Created
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a new job, a temporary rate shall be set by Management. The permanentrate for the said job as determined by the Plywood EvaluationCommitteeshall be effective as of the date the job was installed. If the evaluated rate for the new job is lowerthan the temporary rate the incumbent (s) shall be a I lowed to continue at the temporary rate.
11.	Red Circle Jobs
(a)	The Company shall supply the Union with a list cf employees holding red circlejobs, the said list to include the name of the employee, name of job category filled, the evaluated rate for the job, and the actual rate paid.
(b)	Employeeson red circle rates who are promotedto a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate if subsequentlyfound incompetentto continue in the higher grade.
(c)	Employees holding red circlejobs who are demoted during a reductionof forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for the job to which they are
assigned. If at a later date an employee is reassignedto his/her former job, he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
(d)	When the Company terminatesa job, or a job is not occupied during a period of one year, a record as to the cancellationof the applicablejob description and classificationshall be established.
(e)	Ifan employee is temporarilytransferred at the request of the Company he/she shall retain his/her existing rate or receivethe rate for the newjob, whichever is higher. On returnto his/her regularjob, the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
12.	Seniority:
(a)	Subjecttothe provisions herein set out, Article VIII, (Seniority)shall continueto apply.
(b)	Promotionsshall be made only where a vacancy exists
13.	Referral Procedure (Appeal Procedure)
(a)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decisionto the appropriate Plant Job Review Committee.
(b)	When an employee's requestfor re-evaluationresults in no change being made in the job grade, or in a reduction, or when Management requests results in no change or in an increase, the Plywood EvaluationCommittee shall give to the appropriate Review Committee a short statement of the reasonsfor the decision. The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficientdepth to show the applicantthat the requestwas given adequateattention.
(c)	An evaluation done by the Plywood EvaluationCommitteeshall be final and binding on the Parties but, at any time after five years since the last evaluationor re-evaluationof a job, Management or an individual employee may submit a requestfor re-evaluationof that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
72
(d)	If the Plywood EvaluationCommittee is unable to reach agreement regarding the dispositionof a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the job evaluation program which falls within their jurisdiction the matter shall be referred to Forest Industrial Relations Limited,and to the Industrial,Wood and Allied Workers of Canada, RegionalCouncil for settlement.
(e)	All communication between any Plant Review Committeeand the Plywood Evaluation Committeereferred to above shall be effected by sending one copy to the Union representativeor representativeson the Committee and one copy to the Company Representativeor representatives.In the case of communicationsto a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of the appropriate Union Local and the Company representativescare of the Company's office at the Plant. In the case of communicationto the Plywood EvaluationCommittee, the Union representativewill be addressed care of the officesof Regional Council No. 1 of the Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada, Vancouver,and the Company representativecare of the office of Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
14.	Training Program
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by the Company and the Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada Regional Council.
SCHEDULE NO. 4
FIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED, (CARIBOO DIVISION)
AND:
I.W.A. CANADA,
LOCAL 1-424, A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.
The following term sand conditionsshall be applicablefor the duration of the current Collective Agreement during "Company Responsibility Fires" in which the employer/ employee relationshipexists under the said Collective Agreement.
1.	Definitions
(a)	Accidental Fire: Any fire not deliberatelyignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, and which requiresactive measureto extinguish.
|(b)	Slash Escape Fire: Any slash fire ignited by the Company which has
escapedthe pre-determined boundariesand requiresactive measuresto extinguish.
|(c)	Slash Control Fire: Any slash fire ignited by the Company which is
contained within the pre-determined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control and does not require active measures as contemplated in (a) and
(b)	above.
Fire: Any fire which the Company is
responsiblefor taking measuresto extinguish pursuantto the provisionsof the Forest Act.
1(e)	Forest Service Fire: Any fire in respect of which the B.C. Forest Service
accepts responsi bi I ityfor direction of measuresto extinguish.
(f)	Fire Fighting Rates: The rates of pay for fighting Company Responsibility Fires hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
74
Job Rates: Rates of pay to employeesfor the performanceof their regularjobs, as set out in the Wage Supplementto the CollectiveAgreement.
(h) Statutory Rates: Rates of pay established by B.C. Forest Service for fire fighters.
2.	Company Controlled Timber
(a)	Notwithstandingthe foregoing, when the Company directs Company employees to fight fire on Company controlledtimber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlledtimber, which is threatening Company controlled timber, the Company will pay those employees at the fire fighting rates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement.
(b)	Where the B, C. Forest Service directsthe Company to provide its employeesfor fighting fires in circumstancesotherthan those set out in a) above, those employees will be paid at the statutory rate.
(c)	The partiesagree to hold discussions, which will parallel any discussions held between the IWA and the F.L.R.A., regarding the applicationof this section.
3. Fire Fighting Rates
(a)	The basic rate shall be $19,425 per hour effective June 15,1994 and $20.01 per hour effective June 15,1995, and $20.41 per hour effective June 15,1996, and shall apply to all employees engaged in fighting Accidental or Slash Escape Fires exceptthose performingone of the following fire fighting jobs:
Category
July 1/03 July 1/04 July 1/05 July 1/06
July 1/07 July 1/08
All Firefighters Except as follows:
Crew Boss Cat Operators Power Saw Operators Mechanics Slio-on Tank and/or Trailer Tanks with Pump/Driver Operator V\&ter Tan k Truck with Pulp/Driver Operator Service Trucks/Bus Drivers Pumpman
$22,455	$22,905	$23,365
25.085	25.585	26.095
24.715	25.21	25.715
26.805	27.84	27.885
*MechanicsRegular Job Rate
24.715
23.80
22.76
23.16
25.21
24.275
23.215
23.625
25.715
24.76
23.68
24.10
$23.83
26.615
26.23
28.445
26.23
25.255
24.155
24.58
$24,305	$25,035
27.145	27.96
26.755	27.56
29.015	29.885
26.755	27.56
25.76	26.535
24.64	25.38
25.07	25.82
(b)	Straight time rates will apply to all employees throughoutthe period
during which the said employees are engaged in fire fighting. This shall not include cook and bunkhouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanics,or other categories, servicing, feeding or supplyingfire firefighters from areas removedfrom the area of the fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day in question are exclusively related to fire fighting operations.
(C) Regularjob rateswill apply onlyforthedurationofthe regular productionshift in which the fire started.
(d)	Where employees are working injob classificationsduringfire fighting, otherthan those set out herein, job rates shall apply.
4. Board and Lodging
(a)	Employeeswho commute from home or camp are expectedto "carry a lunch". Additional meals where required will be at Company expense.
(b)	Employeesrequiredto liveawayfrom their privateresidencewill receive board and lodgingat Company expense.
(c)	Employeesliving in fly camps will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
5. Travel Time
Travel timefor employees engaged in fire fighting will be paid in accordancewith the Weldwood Agreement, except for the overtime provisionsthereof.
6.	Slash Burning
(a)	All employeesengaged in watching or controllingslash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regularjob rate and overtime conditionswill apply.
(b)	The arbitration award of the late Chief Justice Gordon M. G. Sloan handed down on the 23rd day of February, 1948, shall apply to (a) herein.
7.	Interpretive Notes
(a) When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtime conditionsfor fire watchers will revertto the normal conditions providedfor in the Collective Agreement.
-76-
(b)	Notwithstandingany of the conditions herein, if any equipment possessing residualvalue to the operation is manufacturedor created, the work performedthereon shall be subject to regular rates.
(c)	The meaning of the word "extinguish" as used in this Agreement shall includethe act or processof suppressionto the point when the fire requiresfire watchers only.
8.	All provisionsof the CollectiveAgreement except as amended or modified herein shall continue to apply.
SCHEDULE NO. 5
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
Section 1 : Responsibility, Implementation, Continuity and Administration
Thel.W.A. CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations Limited agree to implementand continue the provisionsof this Article of the Coast MasterAgreementandany related Supplements to the Coast MasterAgreementas administered by I.W.A. CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations Limited. Thel.WA CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations Limited shall be responsiblefor all aspects of the program.
Section 2:	Purpose and Method
The purpose of the Program shall be the ranking of applicable hourly-paid categories and placingthem in groups according to their relative value within the B.C. Coast Sawmill Industry by using a method of agreed upon benchmarkcategories and related job descriptions.
Where new or significantlychanged jobs do not fit an existing benchmarkjob description, the Partiesagree to group such jobs by comparisonto existing jobs where possible, in order to keep benchmarkjob descriptions to a minimum.
The Partiesagreethatthe Details of Agreement as per Appendix No. 1 of the Memorandum of Agreement dated February11,1992 in respect of Mechanization, TechnologicalChange or Automation will be implemented. Rate increases, if any, will be effective June 15,1992. No incumbent's rate shall be reduced as a result of the implementationof this Agreement.
Section 3:	Application
(a) Sawmill Rate Determination shall be carried out at the Local Union - Local Management level in accordancewith the provisions of this Article and the provisionsof any related Supplementsto the Coast Master Agreement.
(b)	Sawmill Rate Determinationshall apply to all hourly paid categories in the sawmill industry except for those categorieswhich have been excluded by mutual agreement between the I.W.A. Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
(c)	Sawmill Rate Determinationshall not supersede existing in-plant agreements, signed on or before November3,1976 at the Local Union-Local Management Level.
Section 4:	Development. Uniformity and Co-ordination
In order to ensure uniform application, the Program shall be developed and coordinated by the B. C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board, consisting of an equal number of representativesfrom the Union and the Industry as follows:
For the Union:
One (1) Officer representing I. W. A. CANADA and three (3) Officers representing the I.W.A. CANADA Coast Local Unions assisted by one (1) Technical Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by I .W.A. CANADA.
Forthe Industry:
One (1) representativeof Forest Industrial Relations Limited and three (3) representativesofthe B.C. Coast Sawmill Industry, assisted by one (1) Technical Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by Forest IndustrialRelations Limited.
Section 5:	Procedure
(a)	The Sawmill Rate DeterminationProgram shall be administered jointly on a day-to-day basis by the respective Technical Advisors, subject to the approval by the B.C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board.
(b)	Any agreement reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union-Local Management Level shall be final and binding on the Parties.
(c)	If no agreement can be reached in this manner regardingthe disposition of a category rate clearance application receivedfrom the Local Union-Local Managementlevel, the matter shall be referredto the Board.
(d)	If the Board is unable to reach agreement regardingthe disposition of a category rateclearanceapplication receivedfrom the Local Union-Local Management level, the matter shall be referredtothe I.W.A. Coast NegotiatingCommitteeand Forest Industrial Relations Limited in accordance with Section 1 of this Article.
-78-
Section 6:	Job Analysis Wage Curve
Group	Effective	Effective
Level	Julyl,	Julyl,
2003	2004
Effective
Julyl,
2005
1	$21.92	$22.36
2	22.09	22.53
3	22.285	22.73
4	22.455	22.905
5	22.655	23.11
6	22.975	23.435
7	23.29	23.755
8	23.575	24.045
9	23.905	24.385
10	24.29	24.775
11	24.735	25.23
12	25.15	25.655
13	25.555	26.065
14	25.99	26.51
15	26.385	26.915
16	26.795	27.33
17	27.24	27.785
18	27.655	28.21
19	28.05	28.61
20	28.59	29.16
21	29.095	29.675
22	29.61	30.20
23	30.13	30.735
$22.80
22.98
23.185
23.365
23.57
23.905
24.23
24.525
24.875
25.27 25.735
26.17 26.585 27.04 27.455
27.875
28.34 28.775
29.18 29.745
30.27 30.805
31.35
Effective	Effective
Julyl,	Julyl,
2006	2007
$23.26	$23,725
23.44	23.91
23.65	24.125
23.83	24.315
23.04	24.52
24.385	24.875
24.715	25.21
25.015	25.515
25.375	25.885
25.775	26.29
26.25	26.775
26.695	27.23
27.115	27.93
27.58	28.13
28.005	28.565
28.435	29.005
28.905	29.485
29.35	29.935
29.765	30.36
30.34	30.945
30.875	31.495
31.42	32.05
31.975	32.615
79-
Effective
Julyl,
2008
$24,435
24.625
24.85
25.045 25.255 25.62 25.965 26.28 26.66 27.08 27.58
28.045 28.77 28.975 29.42
29.875 30.37 30.835 31.27
31.875 32.44 33.01 33.595
The general wage increase providedfor in Article V, Section 1(a) has been incorporated intothese rates.
Section 7:	Incumbent's Rate
No incumbent's rate shall be reducedasa result of the implementationand/or continued applicationof the Program. The parties further agree that details of the Sawmill Rate DeterminationProgram may be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end of each three month period from the date of this Agreement.
80
SCHEDULE NO.6
CONSTRUCTIONCONTRACTING
Section 1
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmenwho are assigned by the Company to carry out work directly relatedto "new" constructionwith tradesmen employed by an outside contractor, planttradesmen will be paid the "outside" contractor(s) rate(s).
Section 2:
For the purpose of this Agreement "new" constructionshall be defined as meaning:
(a)	The construction of major new buildings and major additionsto existing buildings.
(b)	The addition of new or used major productionmachinery and related equipment not previously in existence.
Section 3:
(a)	"Tradesmen" shall mean journeymen and apprentices in the following trades:
Machinist
Millwright
Stea mfl tter/Pi pefitter Welder Electrician Carpenter
(b)	"Contractor's Rate" shall only mean the hourly wage paid by that contractor and not any other payment or working conditions.
"Contractor's Rate" will not exceed the rates for similar trades paid by IWA construction companies.
- 81
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Between
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (CARIBOO DIVISION)
AND
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-424
in co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP &INDUSTRIALTRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledgeand skill of persons employed by the Company as Journeymen, Improvers or Helpers in respectto the trades named in Article II herein.
ARTICLE II-TRADES
1.	Millwrights ■	- 4 Year Program
2.	Heavy Duty Mechanics ■	- 4 Year Program
3.	Steamfitter-Pipefitter ■	- 4 Year Program
4.	Machinist ■	■ 4 Year Program
5.	Electrician ■	• 4 Year Program
6.	Welder	-to be established
7.	Carpenter •	• 4 Year Program
8.	Forklift & Carrier Mechanic-	■ 4 Year Program
9.	Filers & Fitters ■	■ to be established
ARTICLE III - GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Section 1:	Collective Agreement
All provisionsof the CollectiveAgreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this Program.
Section 2:	Right to Continue
Once started in the Program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he passes all of the prescribedtests and work is available to him.
Section 3: Tests
Upon completionof each period of training in the vocational school, an Apprentice will be requiredto pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprenticewill be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to passonthe occasion of the second such test, he shall be requiredto withdraw from the Program.
Section 4:	Meaning of "Year"
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helperor improver, it shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days: the said period to includetime spent at the vocational school.
Section 5:	Training Time Entitlement
Subject to the provisionsherein, an Apprenticewho is hired by the Company and who has had training in another apprenticeshipplan will be given recognition of such training time.
Section 6:	On-TheJobTrainina
The Company will ensure that the Apprentices will be given the necessaryon-the-job practicaltraining.
ARTICLE IV -SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
Section 1:	Seniority
When the Company requiresApprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants selected in accordance with the provisionsof ArticleXXII, Section2, of the CollectiveAgreement.
Section 2:	Successful Applicants
Successfulapplicantswill be assigned as Helpers for a three (3) month probationary period, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
Section 3:	Entrance Standards
Entranceto the Programwill in all cases be subject to the applicant meeting the standards required for acceptance by the Apprenticeship and IndustrialTraining Branch.
-83-
Section^__Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpers and Improvers employed by the Company must enterthe Program. Helpers and Improverswho cannot qualify in the Program will be reclassifiedas Labourerswith no reduction in rate of pay, until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain a job with equal or a higher rate of pay.
Labourerswill not be employed in a manner that will interfere with the applicationof the Program.
Section 5:	Age Limit
There will be no age limit for applicants. ARTICLE V - TRAINING SCHEDULES
Section 1:	Assignment as Helper
All successful applicants, except Welder Apprentices (see appropriateAppendix), will be registered as Apprentices and be assigned as Helpersfor an 11 month period, prior to attending vocational school, unless the applicant's previous experiencerenderssuch assignment unnecessary.
A program for the aforementionedWelder Apprentices will be established.
Section 2:	5 Year Schedule
Rating At Operation	At School
First Year	Helper	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Second Year	Helper	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Third Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Fourth Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Fifth Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Section 3:	4 Year Schedule		
	Ratinq	At Operation	At School
First Year	Helper	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Second Year	Helper	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Third Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Fourth Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
a4-
Section 4:	3 YearSchedule
First Year Second Year Third Year
Rating At Operation	At School
Helper	first 11	months
Improver	first 11	months
Improver	first 11	months
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Section 5:	Electricians
Notwithstandingthe provisionsof Sections2, 3, and 4 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shall be required to take 8 weeks at school during each year of the Program instead of 4, with the period in the operation reduced accordingly.
Section 6:	Passing Test
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribedtest before promotionfrom Helperto Improver.
Section 7:	Journeyman Qualification
Followingcompletion of the period of training as required herein, and upon becoming certified, he shall receive certified Journeyman'srate of pay if a Journeyman's job is available. If, however, a Journeyman's job is not available he shall be entitled to exercise his plant seniority for job entitlement. If in the exercise of his seniority he is
retained as an Improver, he shall not be requiredto perform a Journeyman'swork or take the place of a Journeyman.
Section 8: Vocational School Delay
If any of the periods provided for in Sections2,3,4 or 5 herein are exceeded by reason of vocational school facilities being unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements.
ARTICLE VI -WAGE RATES
Section 1:	Rates and Increments
a)	Wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement.
5) An Apprentice who passes his test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his second term year as a helper.
c) The Wage Rate for an Improvershall be that as specified in the Wage Supplement.
d)	An Apprentice who passes a test in the fourth period of vocationaltraining shall receive an increment agreed to betweenthe Company and the Union during his second term as an Improver.
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen,and who are certifiedas such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade, as agreed to between the Company and the Union.
Section 2:	Expenses
Fares, Lost Time Pay, and School Expensesare to be paid by the appropriate Governmentauthorities as part of the cost of the Apprenticeship Plan, with the exception that the employer shall pay the Apprentice while attending vocational school, the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriateGovernment authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Single persons shall receive their wages, less the sum paid to them by the appropriate Government authorities. Married persons shall receivetheir wages, less the sum paid to single persons by the appropriate Governmentauthorities.
Section 3:	Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one of the tests under this Program, through
no fault of his own, the delay shall not prejudice his rightto wage increments provided for in Section 1 herein.
ARTICLE VII -ADVISORY BOARD
Section 1:	Constitution
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two (2) representativesof the Industry,two (2) from the Union, one (1) representingthe Vocational School, and one (1) from the Apprenticeship and IndustrialTraining Branch.
Section 2:	Responsibility
The Board shall be responsiblefor advising the Department of Labour, Apprenticeship and IndustrialTraining Branch, regarding the content of tests, standards of marking, and the school curriculumwith respect to registeredApprentices. The Boardshall not be responsiblefor the actual setting or marking of tests.
-86-
ARTICLE VIM -GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
Persons presentlyemployed as Journeymen, who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 2:
Personsemployed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesman QualificationExam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 3:
If a present Journeymanfails to pass the test for a voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification Certificate, he can then become indenturedas an Apprentice at no reduction in rate of pay.
Section 4:
There will be a three-man committeeestablished to process applicants who make applicationto be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification,or who become indenturedunderthe Apprenticeshipand Tradesmen's QualificationAct. The committee will also determine what vocationaltraining is necessaryfor persons indenturedas Apprentices. Representationon the Committee shall consist of the following:
a)	One (1) Representativefrom the Union.
b)	One (1) Representativefrom the Industry
c)	One (1) Representativefrom the Apprenticeship Branch.
Vocationaltrainingwill be conducted during day courses. Textbooks and study material will be madeavailablewhen required.
ARTICLE IX -TOOLS
Section I:
All Journeymentradesmen shall be requiredto have, and shall not qualify for the Journeymanrate, unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessaryto perform the job for which they are hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibilityof the Journeyman.
-87
Section 2:
The Improvershall be requiredto have and maintain a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of building up the necessarytools to equip himself for the job.
Section 3:
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools and shall use those designated to him. However, in his own interest he should commence the process of building up a tool kit
July 1st, 1991
1.	W.A. CANADA
LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
PRiNCEGEORGE, B.C
Dear Sirs:
We wish to confirm our Agreement originally drawn up March 25th, 1955 for the
duration of our presentAgreement in regardto logging contractors employed by the
Company in the Quesnel area.
1 We shall hold our uncertified logging contractors responsibleto abide by the relevant provisionsof the presentAgreement, in particularas it regards wage scale, holiday pay and seniority clauses. Dues for all employees and a list of employees for whom dues are submitted must be submittedto the Local Union once a month, without applicationfor Union membership.
2.	The seniority provisionsare interpretedas follows:
a)	Men working for any contractors gather seniority on that operation only.
b)	Ifanothercontractororourselvestakes over all or part of one operation, men whose jobs essentially continue underthe new setup will retain their jobs and go on the new contractor's seniority list as per the date they were hired by the previous contractor.
c)	If, due to layoff or reorganizationof a show orfor any other reason, a man'sjob "disappears", he has no claim to betransferredto any other logging show, the plywood mill or sawmill.
3.	The Company will encourage logging contractorsto make reasonable arrangements to help compensatefor travelling were no camp is provided.
.12
-89-
IWA LOCAL 1-424, Prince George
July 1, 1991
Page2
4.	New wage categories paid or negotiated by our contractors (i.e. categories other than or higherthan set out in our Agreement) bind us (orfuturecontractors)only if they have been approved by an Officer of Weldwood of Canada.
5.	The Company agreed to notify the IWA as regards the commencement date of new logging shows.
Yours truly,
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
90
July 1st, 1991
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.,
PRiNCEGEORGE, B.C.	■
Dear Sirs:
RE:	CHARGE HAND
The normal duties of a Charge Hand are to transmit work orders to direct the activities of a group of workers in his charge. He may from time to time supervise a shift on a
temporary basis, but will not assume the responsibilityof a Foreman for an extended period of time.
He may or may not perform work within his area of supervision. He, as a Union member, is not granted the right to hire or discharge.
None of the foregoing is intendedto restrictany of the usual activities of a Charge Hand in this operationbut merely to clarify the fact that the Company does not give Charge Hands the right to hire or discharge employees.
Yours truly,
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (CARIB00 DIVISION)
OTEU 15
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED CARIBOO DIVISION QUESNEL, B.C.
Dear Sirs:
Thiswill confirmour understandingthatthe Union will agreeto sit down and negotiate during the term of the 1991-1994 CollectiveAgreement a continuous production schedule
It is understoodthat at such time, all aspects of hours of work and wages to be affected will also be opened for negotiation;and it be further understoodthat any proposed agreement on this proposal must be ratified by secret ballot vote of the members of the
I.W.A. CANADA, Local 1-424, employed byWeldwood of Canada Limited at Quesnel,
B.	C.
Yours truly,
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-424,
C.	L.C.
President
FinancialSecretary
E.&O.E.
OTEU 15
-92
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED CARIBOO DIVISION
AND:
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
RE: JOB POSTING (TEMPORARY JOBS)
Temporary jobs must be posted if morethan three weeks known duration, excluding vacations, with the successful bidderhavingthe rightto return to his regularjob when the temporary job expires.
To qualify for a temporary posting the bidder must be qualified to performthe job.
Employeesholding trainee positionsshall not be permitted to bid on temporary jobs except on jobs in the category in which they are training.
Temporary jobs shall be reposted as permanentjobs when it is indicatedthatthe absent employee will not return.
RE: OVERTIME ON DRYERS
The Local Union agrees to overtime work on the dryers providedthat:
1.	Normal plant production be maintainedon a five (5) day per week schedule.
2.	Any additionalovertime required in excess of (1) above to be discussed by the Local Union and the Company.
3.	This letter of Understandingisto apply to dryer overtimeonly
4.	it is further understoodthat the general principleswhich have been followed on dryer overtimewill prevail as follows:
a)	Overtime will be equalized as much as possible, i.e. one man will
not get two overtime shifts on a weekend if it is possible to get another man.
-93
b)	Spares who have seniority and are on layoff will get preferenceon the unskilledjobs.
c)	The followingjobs will be manned by experienced personnel in all cases if possible; dryer operators jeep driver, four dryer-grader off bearers, two patchers and one reclip operator.
d)	Foremen will control and supervise the above points.
RE: ATTENDANCEAT GRIEVANCE MEETINGS
The parties hereby agree that for the purpose of grievance meetings, arrangements shall be made allowing all members of the Plant Committee to attend such meetings without suffering any loss of pay
It is further agreed that prior to taking up any individualgrievance,the Committee shall have the right to examine the employee's record with the Personnel office.
RE: HOT DRYER CLEANING
It is mutually agreed that the members of the cleaning crew will rotate, at reasonable periods, to the "hot spot", and, further agreed that the Company will supply some type of protective overgarmentto each of the cleaningcrew.
RE: SELECTIVE EMPLOYMENT
The Company agrees that when an employee, who requires selective employment because of accident or extended illness, returns to work the Company will, within twenty-four (24) hours after the employee has returned to work, inform the Plant Committee of the employee's name and to what work he has been assigned.
Where a dispute arises about the suitability of the work to which the employee has been assigned, the Committee and the Company shall meet and attempt to resolvethe matter.
RE: MULTIPLE QUALIFICATIONSON BID SHEETS
The Parties agree that Multiple Qualificationsshall not be used on the Bid Sheets.
94-
RE: WORKING FOREMEN
It is agreed that Foremen and persons excluded from the bargaining unit shall not performwork usually performedby employees in the bargainingunit except for instruction,experiments, quality control or in an emergency where no one in the bargaining unit is either available or capable of performingthe work required.
RE:	INTERPRETATION ARTICLE IX- LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Furtherto our discussion, during negotiations in regard to Article IX- Leave of Absence in the new Agreement, the Local Union agrees that Article IX, Section 3, as it applies to Leaves of Absence for educational and training purposes, should be clarified as to intent and proposethe following interpretation:
1.	The Company will only be obliged to grant Leaves of Absence for educational and training purposesto employeeswho intend to take training that will assist the individualin obtaining skills related to the industry.
2.	The Local Union agrees that Article IX, Section 3, as it applies to compassionate leave be interpreted as follows:
The company will only be obliged to grant extended compassionateleave to employees in cases of emergency such as illness or death in the family, or in cases where the individual is designated to act as Administratorof an estate.
3.	Requests for Leave of Absence for personal reasons other than compassionate or educationaltraining will be subject to the provisionsof Sections2 and 3,
Article IX of the Collective Agreement.
The Parties agree that in the application of Article IX, Leave of Absence, Section3, Compassionate Leave, the following criteria shall be used in determining an employee's eligibility.
1.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to those employees with more than two (2) years continuousservice.
2.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be granted based on one (1) month leave of absencefor each year of continuous service to a maximum of six (6) months.
3.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to a maximum of one (1) leave in a three (3) calendar year period.
-95
4.	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes will be limitedto four (4) employeesoff on leave at any one time in the plywood section,two (2) employees off on leave at any onetime in the sawmill division, one(1) employee off on leave at any one time in the planermill division, one(1) employee off on leave at any one time in the plywood maintenance.
5.	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes will be granted on a first come/first serve basis.
RE:	WAGE REVISIONS
This is to confirm our Agreement that wage revisions negotiatedonthe Coast will apply to the Weldwood operations at Quesnel. In applying such revisions it will be done on the basis of job comparison ratherthan simplyjob title.
RE:	ESTABLISHMENTOF FORCES
The Parties agree that when forces are re-established,employees shall return to their previously held jobs as soon as possible but not laterthan the first shift following the first weekend.
RE: NEW CONCEPTS COMMITTEE
The Parties agree to establisha committeeto study new concepts, including industrial democracy, of ways to improve labour management relations between the above named Parties.
RE: EMPLOYEE AND FAMILYASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The Parties agree to establisha Joint Committee consisting of two (2) members from the i.W.A. CANADA and two (2Jmembersfrom the Company, to study the practicability of a Troubled Employee Program. Detailsto be worked out betweenthe parties.
RE: GRADERS
The Parties agreethat the grade stamp currently in use at the Cariboo Division will be recognized as a grade stamp issued by an inspection service under a Grade Stamp LicenseAgreementin accordancewiththe provisions of the B. C. Coast Sawmill Rate Determination Prog ram
96
The Lumber Grader job categoriesthat appear in the Cariboo Wage Supplements are as follows:
Group 14- G.S.L.S. Grader Group 11 - No. 1 Grader Group9 - No. 2 Grader
For the purpose of establishingwhere Gradersfit within these levels, the following procedure will apply:
1.	Graders with " A Tickets will be paid G.S.L.A. Grader's rate.
2.	Graders with "B" Tickets will be paid No. 1 Grader's rate until they have repeated the complete Grader's Course and written the test in an attemptto get an "A" Ticket. Even ifthey do not achieve an 1 "ATicket, they will be elevatedto a G.S.L.A. Grader's rate.
3.	Graders with no ticket will be paid a No. 2 Grader's rate.
The Partiesfurther agree that the resulting rate changeswill be paid retroactivelyfrom September 1,1977.
The Partiesfinally agree that this Letter of Understandingmay be subject to amendment at the written requestof either Party at the end of each three-monthperiodfrom the date of this Agreement.
RE: TRAINING FOR FIREFIGHTERS.4TH CLASS ENGINEER
The purpose of this Letter of Understandingis to improvethe technical backgroundof people in the Boilerhouseand open up a line of progressionin the Steam Plant and a specific agreement re the Training Program for the entry position for Firemanwith Fourth Class Ticket.
1.	Future Boilerhouse Utility vacancies will be posted as Trainee positionsfor Firemanwith 4th Class Ticket. The successful candidate will be selected on the basis of seniority, and the successful completion of the Apprentice Selection Tests (Mechanical).
2.	Applicants must be High School graduates including Grade 12 Mathematicsor B.C. equivalent.
3.	Successful bidders will enroll in the Departmentof Education correspondence course for 4th Class Engineers, and should complete the course within twelve (12) months. They would keep the Chief Engineeradvised of their progress.
97
4.	To remain in the Utility position,the trainee must complete the Fourth Class Certificate course and examinationas set out in the Leave of Absence for Stationery EngineersTraining Agreement within sixteen (16)months.
5.	Trainees will be utilized as relief Fireman when the Chief Engineer feels they have become familiar with the positionof Fireman.
6.	Once trainees have their 4th Class Ticket, they would qualifyfor bidding on the next permanent Fireman's position.
7 BoilerhouseUtilityTraineeson obtainingtheir4th ClassTicketwill bepaidthe Boilerhouserate assigned to the Fireman category.
8.	Present Boilerhouse Utility bid holders not in possession of a 4th Class Stationery Engineering Certificatewill be able to bid on future Firemanpositions. On obtaining such bid, he will be required to enrol in the Departmentof Education CorrespondenceCourse for a 4th Class Certificateand complete the course and examination as set out in the Leave of Absence for Stationery EngineersTraining Agreement,within eighteen (18) months. If he does not pass the course or examination, he will be given a second opportunityto do so. This must be completed within six (6) months. Failing a second time, he will be requiredto withdraw from the program, but will keep the bid position of Fireman.
9.	This Agreement shall take effect of August 28th, 1981 and is subject to review at the request of either party after two monthswritten notice.
RE: ARTICLE XI. SECTION 4 - PERSONAL FLOATING HOLIDAY
The purpose of this Letter of Understandingis to clarify the administration of the
Personal Floating Holiday.
a)	The Partiesagreethata regular, full-time employee, when taking his Personal Floating Holiday as providedfor in Article XI, Section4, must have worked his last regularlyscheduledwork day before, and hisfirst regularlyscheduledwork day after the holiday, unless his absence is due to illness or an occupational injury, or the employee is on authorized leave of absence (subject to Article XI, sub-section4(b) (iii).
b)	The Partiesfurtheragreethat paymentofthe Personal Floating Holiday upon termination shall not be construedasan extension of his periodof employment.
98
RE: APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Where an employee voluntarily leaves the apprenticeship program, he/she shall forfeit all right to train in that trade, unless there is evidence of immaturityor poor health at the time of the bidding off the job. In such a case, Management agrees to review a new bid but one (1) year must pass from the date of the occurrence.
DATEDthis_______day of____________________, 1991
FOR:	FOR
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED I.W.A. CANADA (CARIBOO DIVISION)	LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C
President
FinancialSecretary
E. & O. E.
99
SCHEDULE NO.7
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A.	FLEXIBILITY OF HOURSOFWORK
The Parties recognizethe need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in the Hours of Work Article, for the express purpose of better utilizationof manpower and capital such as:
Balancing of production Maintenance Market requirements
Even flow production
Emergencyor unexpected harvesting programs Continuousscheduling(eg. Logging, Engineers, Firemen,
Maintenance, Watchmen)
B.	SHIFT SCHEDULING
The parties agree that the following shift scheduleswill provide the flexibility required to meet the needs expressed above.
1.	Logging
i)	compressed schedulesconsisting of 10 hours per day, 4 days per week;
ii)	non-continuousschedules such as 10 days on, 4 days off.
2.	Manufacturing
i)	2 crews working 4 days,	10	hours per shift;
ii)	up to 3 crews working Monday to Saturday, 10 hours a shift not exceeding40 hours perweek
iii)	employeesworking in continuous operations may be scheduled to work shifts other than (i) or(ii) above.
-100-
Maintenance
3.
j)	shifts of up to 10 hours per day, 40 hours perweek, Monday to Sunday inclusive:
n) three shifts perweek, not exceeding 12 hours per day.
4.	Other Shifts
It is understoodthe parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
C. IMPLEMENTATION
Any variation(s) top the Hoursof Work Article shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
1 .The Company and the Local Union will meet to discuss proposed shift scheduleswithin the terms of the Hours of Work Article. It is anticipated
that the Local Union will make si nee re attempts to assist the Company wishing to introducealternateshift schedules. The parties mustmutuallv agree on resolution of issues such as:
a)	details of shift
b)	details of Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave, and Jury Duty.
c)	Maximum length of shifts for physicallydemanding work Accident prevention is a factorto taken into account in determiningshift lengths.
d)	The loss of hours/emptoyment as a direct result of the implementationof alternate shift schedules.
e)	The use of employees for supplementaryproductionwork.
2. The Camp or Plant Committee and the crew will be actively consulted by the Parties during the process.
101
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
D.
When an alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisionsofthe Collective
Agreement will be administeredon the principlethat an employee will not lose or
gain any benefits over his normal five-day schedule.
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intention is to increase the use of casual employees in place of regular employees.
2.	Different parts of an operation may be scheduled on different shifts.
3.	The principle of the forty (40) hour week is to be maintained over an averaging period.
4.	This Article shall not change existing alternate shift agreements, unless agreed to by both parties.
5.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other Articles of the Collective Agreement which provide benefitsafter eight (8) hours are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
7.	An employee's rest days may vary from week to week under an alternate shift schedule. Employeesshall not be paid premium pay for changes in their rest days in these circumstances.
8.	An employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shall receive rate and one-half for work performedon his rest days unless a change in rest day resultsfrom the applicationof seniority or has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
9.	There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are changed becauseofthe implementationof an alternate shift schedule.
-102-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
Weldwood of Canada Limited (Cariboo Division)
(hereinafter known as the "Company”) OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
I.W.A, CANADA Local 1-424
(hereinafter known as the "Union") OF THE SECOND PART
The Company and the Union hereby agree to abide by the following terms and conditionsin respect to Leaves of Absence for Stationary EngineersTraining.
1.	FOURTH CLASS CERTIFICATE
Upon successful completion of the Departmentof EducationCorrespondence Course for a FOURTH CLASS STATIONARY STEAM ENGINEERING CERTIFICATE, or possessingequivalentqualificationsacceptableto the Vocational School authorities, Powerhouse employees will be granted three (3) weeks leave of absence with pay to attend an approvedVocational School to complete the course and write the examination for the Fourth Class Stationary Steam EngineeringCertificate.
During his first week at the School, the employee will be evaluated by the school authoritiesto determine his knowledgeof the subject, and if the evaluation is favourable, he will continue his studies at the school during the following two weeks and write the prescribedexamination. In the event that the evaluation is not favourable, the school authoritieswill indicateto the employee those areas where further study is needed and he will return to the mill and carry out the recommended home studies. Upon completion of this additional studying, the employee will be granted three (3) weeks leave of absence, two (2Jweeks with pay and one (1)without, to return to the Vocational School to complete the course, and write the prescribed Fourth Class Certificateexamination.
-103-
THIRD CLASS CERTIFICATE
2.
Upon successful completionof the Departmentof Education Correspondence Course for a THIRD CLASS STATIONARY STEAM ENGINEERING CERTIFICATE, or possessing equivalent qualificationsacceptable to the Vocational School authorities, Powerhouseemployees shall be granted five (5) weeks leave of absence with pay to attend an approved Vocational School to complete the course and write the examinationfor the Third Class Stationary Steam EngineeringCertificate.
During his first week at the school, the employee will be evaluated by the school authoritiesto determine his knowledgeof the subject, and if the evaluation is favourable, he will continue his studies at the school during the followingfour weeks and write the prescribedexamination. In the event that the evaluation is not favourable, the school authoritieswill indicateto the employee those areas where further study is needed and he will return to the mill and carry out the recommended home studies. Upon completion of this additionalstudying, the employee will be granted five (5) weeks leave of absence, four (4) weeks with pay and one (1) without, to return to the Vocational School to complete the course and write the prescribedThird Class Certificate examination.
3.	SECOND CLASS CERTIFICATE
Upon successfulcompletionof the Departmentof Education Correspondence Course for a SECOND CLASS STATIONARY STEAM ENGINEERING CERTIFICATE, or possessing equivalent qualificationsacceptable to the Vocational School authorities, Powerhouseemployees shall be granted ten (10) weeks leave of absence with pay, on the basis set forth hereunder, to attend an approvedVocational School to complete the two-part course and write the examinationfor the Second Class Stationary Steam Engineering Certificate:
j)	Five (5) weeks leave of absence with pay to complete Part " A
(Mathematics and Physics)
jj)	Five (5) weeks leave of absence with pay to complete Part"B"
(Basic Engineering)
-104-
During his first week at the school in each of the above-mentionedcases (i) and (ii) the employee will be evaluated by the school authoritiesto determine his knowledge of the subject, and if the evaluation is favourable he will continue his studies at the school duringthe following four (4) weeks and write the examination prescribedfor Part"A or"B", whichever is applicable. Inthe event that the evaluation is not favourable, the school authoritieswill indicateto the employee those areas where further study is needed and he will return to the mill and carry out the recommended home studies. Upon completionof this additional studying, the employee will be granted five (5) weeks leave of absence, four (4) weeks with pay and one (1) without, to return to the Vocational School to completethe course and write the examination prescribedfor Part "A or "B", whichever is applicable.
4.	BASIS OF PAY
One (1) week's pay shall be equal to forty (40) hours at the straight time hourly rate of the employee's regularjob.
5.	ADDITIONAL LEAVE
Leaves of absence with pay will begrantedto Steam Plant personnelon the basis as set forth in 1, 2, and 3 above. Any further Vocational Training required to pass each respectivecertificateshall be at the employee'sexpenseand such additional leave of absence will be granted.
6.	BOOKS
The Company will bear fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the correspondence courses and the textbooks laid down by the Vocational Training School as a requirementfor those writing for Stationary EngineeringCertificates.
7.	EXAMINATIONAND TUITION	FEES
The Company will bear the cost of the prescribed examinationand tuition fees, if any, required of candidateswriting for Stationary EngineeringCertificates.
8.	TRANSPORTATIONALLOWANCE
The Company will grant transportationallowance to Steam Plant personnel attendingVocational School on the same basis that transportationallowance is being granted at the time by the ApprenticeshipBranch to apprentices attending an approvedVocational School.
Transportationallowance for those attendingVocational School under this agreement will be:
105
i) return busfare from the mill location to the Vocational School or 5.50/kilometre driven from the mill location to the Vocational school if personalvehicle is used.
jj) an allowance of $60.00 to coverfirst night hotel expenseand meals.
9,	TIMING OF LEAVE
Leaves of absencewill be granted at a time suitable to the Company, bearing in mind the Vocational School curriculum.
10	NUMBER ON LEAVE
Normally, it will not be possibleto grant leave of absence to more than one Steam Plant employee at a time. However, if relief is available, this limit may, at the discretion of the Company, be exceeded.
11	GOVERNMENT ALLOWANCES
If at anytime provision is madewhereby transportationand/or other allowances are granted by the Governmentto Steam Plant personnelattendingan approved Vocational School to write for Stationary Engineeringcertificates,the provisions set forth above will then be amended to take into account such Government allowances.
12	LEVEL OF CERTIFICATES
It is agreed that there shall be no liability on the part of the Company to train an employee beyond the highest hourly paid certificaterequiredin the plant.
DATED THIS 9th day of January_______________________, 19 81
FOR: I.W.A. CANADA	FOR:WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Local 1-424	(Cariboo Division)
106-
(SIGNED)
(SIGNED)
SUPPLEMENTNO. 9
November 4,1994
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING New and Evolving Work
Preamble
Weldwood of Canada Limited and I.W.A. Canada agree to a process which seeks to balance the economic concerns of the member companies with the needs of their employees to have access to New and Evolving Work within the Northern Interior Forest Industry.
This process is intendedto deal with:
1.	employment for regular company employees who are displaced by reductions in Annual Allowable Cuts or other land use decisions
2.	additionalopportunitiesfor bargainingunit employment in new work that may be created in the forest industry
3.	replacementbargaining unit employment in new or evolved work which may develop in future
Process
1.	This Letter establisheda process for the Company and the Local Union to discuss opportunities for having company employees perform new and evolving work within the forest industry in:
■	Value Added
■	Re-manufacturing
■	Opportunitiescreatedthrough B.C. Forest Renewalfunding
2.	Companiesand Local Unions are committed to working together towards making
new work opportunitiesavailableto company employees. It is understoodto accomplish these goals the partiesmust achieve:
■	efficiency and cost effectiveness on a fair and reasonable basis
■	quality objectives
■	safety objectives
.12
107-
3.	The parties recognizethat they cannot reasonably anticipateall circumstances and situations which may arise so cannot prescribecomprehensive solutions in advance.
4.	The parties agree that early joint preparation is an important contributorto the successful implementationand administrationof the New and EvolvingWork Letter. To this end, the respectivenegotiatingcommittees will be jointly available to clarify this agreement, and to assist partieson a case by case basis.
5.	Issues must be resolved in a timelyfashion
6.	This Letterwill expire on June 30,2000 unless specifically renewed by both parties.
Dispute Resolution Process:
In order to assist member companies and Local Unions in resolving disputeswhich may
arise as a result of this Letter, Weldwood of Canada Limited and I.W.A. Canada agree
to:
a)	Establish a joint Dispute Resolution Committee comprised of three (3) representativesfrom management and three (3) representativesfrom the Union to fact find and assist the company and Local Union in reaching a solution.
b)	Managementorthe Local Union can requestthe assistant of the Dispute Resolution Committee.
c)	The Dispute ResolutionCommittee may utilizethe services of facilitators, mediators,orwhatevermeansin order to reachafinal recommended solution.
Agreed to on behalf:
I.W.A. CANADA	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Date:
Date:
-108-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Task Force
We Id wood of Canada Limited and I.W.A. Canada have agreed to a Task Force, comprisedof three (3) representativesfrom managementand three (3) representatives of the Union, with co-chairmen from each party. The Task Force will examine the changes and trends in the forest industry.
The terms of referencefor the Task Force will be as follows, but may include other mattersthe parties wish to explore.
1.	To examinethe change(s) taking place within the Industry and the impact on Union/Management relations.
2.	To identify any procedure, policy, agreement, work schedules, method, working environment, people utilization, and company practicewhich contributesto efficient, safe production performancewhile expanding the current workforce.
3.	To identifywhat changes are appropriateto improvethe overall Industry's ability to harvest and manufacturethe timber in a safe, economical manner.
4.	To identifyopportunitiesfor employees for employeesto learn new skills and to train company employees to operate the equipment and perform the other jobs associated with the evolvingjobs within the B.C. Forest Industry.
5.	The Task Force will submit reportswith recommendationsto the Union and Management Negotiating Committeeon a regular basis on measures that will address the changes needed within the Forest Industry.
6.	This Letterwill expire on June 30,2000, unless specifically renewed by both parties.
Agreed to on behalf:
I.W.A. CANADA	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Date:
Date:,
-109-
November 4,1994
of Canada Limited P.O. Box 2179 Vancouver, BC V6B 3V8
Attention: Gordon Gray
Dear Sir:
Re: Agreement on New and Evolving Work
Tnis letter's intendea to clarify IWA Canada's intent wth regardto the terms and conditionsof the Letter of Understanding in 1994 negotiationson New and Evolving Work
During discussionson this, the Industry raised concernsthat we answer as follows:
1.	It is not the intention of I.W.A. Canada to use this agreementto replace existing logging contractors with IWA members or crews.
2.	It is I.W.A. Canada's desire to have opportunities to discuss with employers the possibility of either using IWA company crews, or IWA contractors, to performwork under Forest Renewal, but it is not our intent to cause companies to purchase equipment without having the costs of such equipmentconsideredas partofthe efficiencyand cost effectivenessthatthe IWA agrees to address underthe New and Evolving Work agreement.
3.	It is I.W.A. Canada's intentionthat discussions concerning new operations under the agreement may lead to voluntary recognitionand certification-it i s notour intention to achieve certification first and enter into discussion later unless certification occurs as a direct result of an IWA organizing drive.
As stated earlier, this letter is to clarify our intentions concerning our agreement. It is not intendedto form part of the agreement, as is not arbitrable by either party.
Sincerely,
Harvey Arcand 4th Vice President I.W.A. Canada
HA/jg
110
July 2, 2003
Mr. RolandRheault Manager Industrial Relations Weldwood of Canada Limited
Dear Roland:
Re:	Alternate Shift Scheduling
Overthe years, Locals 1-424 and 1-425 have worked co-operativelywith Weldwood of Canada Limited to implement alternativeshift schedule. These shifts have, in the past, providedgreater opportunitiesfor our members and helped companies achieve better resultsfrom their northern operations and greaterjob security for our membership in both union locals.
Based on discussionsand commitmentsmade at the bargaining table, both local unions commit that they will continue to work co-operativelywith companiesto implement alternate shifts in order to continue to maintain productivityand job security for operations represented by Weldwood and our membership.
Yours truly,
FrankEveritt, President IWA Local 1-424
Wade Fisher, President IWA Local 1-425
111 -
SAFETY
Comes from a man’s mastery of his Environment and of himself. It is won by individual effort and group co-operation.
It can be achieved only by informed, alert, skillful people who respect themselves and have a regard for the welfare of others.