I N D E X
PAGE ARTICLE
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM	44	XXIII
ARBITRATION AND INTERPRETATION	32	XVI
BARGAINING AGENCY	1	I
CALL TIME	30	XIII
COMMITTEE	8	VI
CONTRACTING OUT	50	XXIX
DEFINITION	2	II
DURATION OF AGREEMENT	51	XXXI
EDUCATION TRUST FUND (THE FUND)	50	XXX
EVALUATION	46	XXIV
FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE	35	XIX
GENERAL PROVISIONS	34	XVIII
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	31	XIV
HOURS OF WORK	9	VII
LEAVE OF ABSENCE	19	IX
LONG TERM DISABILITY	41	XXI
MANAGEMENT	2	III
MEDICAL AND HEALTH AND WELFARE	36	XX
PAY DAYS	34	XVII
PENSION PLAN	42	XXII
RIGHT OF REFERENCE	32	XV
SAFETY AND HEALTH	26	XI
SAFETY EQUIPMENT	48	XXVII
SENIORITY	14	VIII
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	28	XII
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE	47	XXVI
TOOL INSURANCE	49	XXVIII
TRAVEL TIME - SCALERS	47	XXV
UNION SECURITY	2	IV
VACATIONS WITH PAY	22	X
WAGES	5	V
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING	102	
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM	84	
BIDDING PROCEDURE	69	
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING	83	
EVALUATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD	53	
FIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT	77	
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING	95	
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENTS - ALL DIVISIONS	63	
NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD	58	
OFFICE WAGE SUPPLEMENT	66	
PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION	71	
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM	80	
WAGE SCALE - LOG YARD	65	
- PLANER DIVISION	61	
- SAWMILL DIVISION	60	
01000 (06)
NEW AND EVOLVING WORK
109
- 2 -
A G R E E M E N T
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into as of the 24th day of October, 1997.
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED,
(CARIBOO DIVISION)
(hereinafter called the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART,
AND:
I.W.A.-CANADA LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
(hereinafter called the "Union") OF THE SECOND PART.
1.	WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the Parties here to that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationships between the employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment to be observed between the Parties hereto;
2.	AND WHEREAS the Company accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the employees;
3.	AND WHEREAS the Union accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Company:
NOW THEREFORE, the Parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - BARGAINING AGENCY
Section 1:
The Company shall recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining representatives on behalf of its employees properly and duly certified under the appropriate regulations in effect from time to time.
- 1 -
Section 2:
The bargaining authority of the Union shall not be impaired during the term of this Agreement. The only certification that the Company will recognize during the term of this Agreement is that of the Union unless ordered by due process of law to recognize some other bargaining authority.
Section 3:
The Company and the Union shall meet at such time and place as may be mutually agreed upon for the purpose of discussing wages and working conditions and adjusting any matters within the confines of the Agreement which come within the scope of Collective Bargaining between the employee and the Company.
ARTICLE II - DEFINITION
The term "Employee" as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Company on whose behalf the I.W.A.-CANADA, Local 1-424 have been certified as bargaining agents, except and excluding foremen and others having authority to hire and fire, supervisory officials and salesmen.
ARTICLE III - MANAGEMENT
Section 1:
The management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the employees are vested exclusively in the Management; provided however, that this shall not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
Section 2:
The Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
ARTICLE IV - UNION SECURITY
Section 1:
The Company shall co-operate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end shall present to new employees and to all Supervisors and Foremen the Policy herein expressed.
- 2 -
Section 2:
All employees who entered the employment of the Company on or after the 1st day of September, 1960, and all new employees, shall within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
Section 3:
Any employee who is a member in good standing, or is reinstated as a member of the Union shall as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement.
Section 4:
Any employee who fails to maintain his membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments shall be discharged forthwith after seven (7) days written notice to the Company of the said employee's refusal to maintain his membership.
Section 5:
a)	No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the I.W.A.-CANADA Constitution as revised 1979, and in accordance with the By-Laws of Local 1-424 as of the 1st day of April, 1981.
b)	Any employee who applies to join the Union pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Union, shall not be subject to discharge from employment.
Section 6:
The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union, said forms to be forwarded to the Union not later than fifteen (15) calendar days following the date of hiring. The forms shall be substantially as follows:
- 3 -
I.W.A.-CANADA
CHECK-OFF
Please Print
Starting Date_____________19
Name of Employer
Name of Employee Address
Postal Code____ Phone
Operation______________
Social Insurance No.
Are you a Member of the I.W.A.?____________________________________
In what IWA operation were you last employed?______________________
Local Union________________________________________________________
I HEREBY AUTHORIZE AND INSTRUCT YOU TO DEDUCT FROM MY WAGES AND
REMIT TO LOCAL 1-____________________ THE FOLLOWING IN PAYMENT OF THE
AMOUNT SET OUT BELOW:
1.	Union Initiation Fees in the amount of $__________
2.	Union Back Dues in the amount of $________________
3.	Union Dues $__________per month, commencing _19 
4.	Union Assessments in the amount and at the time stated in notice received by you from the Local Union designated above.
Clock No.
- 4 -
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
I hereby request and accept membership in the I.W.A.-CANADA, Local No. 1____________, and agree to abide by the constitution and bylaws of the organization. In
case of misstatement of qualifications for membership I agree to forfeit all rights, privileges and monies paid.
Signature of Applicant-Employee
This assignment shall become effective immediately in the case of employees already members of the Union, and shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution in the case of employees not previously members of the Union. Until the said assignment is revoked by the employee, the Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment to the Local Union named therein not less often than once each month together with a written statement of names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
Section 7:
The Company shall furnish the Union once every month with a list setting out the names of employees absent for fourteen (14) days or longer due to illness or injury.
Section 8:
The Company shall furnish the Union with the Social Insurance Number of each employee on its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded to the Union after the execution of this agreement or after the employee enters the employment of the Company, whichever date last occurs.
Section 9:
Employer Deductions From Wages - Employee Benefit Plans - The Parties agree that the Company shall deduct from an employee's wages and shall remit to the appropriate employee benefit plan, the employee's contribution which is specified in any benefit plan agreed to by the parties to the Agreement.
ARTICLE V - WAGES
Section 1:
a)	The Parties hereby agree that wages of all hourly rated employees covered by the Agreement shall be increased by one percent (1%) per hour effective June 15, 1997; a further two percent (2%) effective June 15, 1998, and by two percent (2%) effective June 15, 1999.
- 5 -
b)	The Parties agree that the minimum rate in the mill for common labour shall be:
i)	$19.855 per hour effective June 15th, 1997.
ii)	$20.25 per hour effective June 15th, 1998.
iii)	$20.655 per hour effective June 15th, 1999.
c)	Employees who have left the employ of the Company must apply within thirty (30) days of ratification to be eligible for retroactive pay flowing from this Agreement.
d)	Coverall service will be made available to Tradesmen and Apprentices, plus Oilers, Grindermen, End Sprayers, Panel Sprayers and Crane Operators. Cost of providing this service to be borne by the Company. When coverall service is requested by the employees, the service must be used. Failure to wear coveralls after they have been provided will result in permanent loss of this privilege.
Section 2:	Welders
a)	Effective July 1st, 1981, the following shall be the classification of welders in manufacturing conditional on the welders being qualified as required under the Standard Forest Industry Welding Specifications and either having completed the three (3) year apprenticeship program or having worked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours as a welder.
Group 1 - Welder (F1 - 101, F1 - 102)
Group 2 - Welder (F1 - 103, DPWI, DPW2)
Group 3 - Welder (Uncertified)
b)	Employees employed as welders and who are required by the employer to renew their welding qualifications shall be granted up to five (5) days paid leave of absence to attend school for instruction. The Company shall pay the cost of instruction and examination.
Section 3:	First Aid Attendants
i)	The Company will pay the cost of training and re-training for Industrial First Aid Certificates including lost time wages to designated duty First Aid Attendants.
ii)	Designated First Aid Attendants shall receive their job rate of pay plus the Ticket Premium rate.
iii)	All other employees holding valid First Aid Tickets shall receive a premium of five cents (5 cents) per hour over and above their job rate. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
- 6 -
Section 4:	Graders - Lumber Division
i)	Grading tickets shall be permanent and valid Certificates.
ii)	All Graders holding grading tickets shall attend upgrading classes as required.
iii)	Graders who are required to attend upgrading classes (rule changes) shall receive their regular straight time job rate for time spent in attending said classes.
iv)	Effective September 1st, 1975 all Certified Lumber Graders shall receive a premium of twenty-five cents (25 0) per hour for a Grading Certificate provided that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as Lumber Graders.
v)	Effective June 15, 1994, a fifteen cents (150) premium for employees holding current and valid lumber grading certificates, but not engaged as lumber graders, so that the total ticket premium will be fifteen cents (150) per hour. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premium.
Section 5:
For convenience of reference only a Wage Scale is published in Schedule No. 1 and shall be effective, subject to correction any errors or omissions, as of July 1, 1988 and may, subject to the consent of both Parties, be revised once annually.
Section 6:
a)	In the event that job conditions change due to the installation of new machinery or revision of work practices or new classifications, the Parties shall meet after the new machinery is operating properly or the new work practices have proven practical, to determine the designation and wage rate to be paid to the employee (s) affected.
b)	In the event that job conditions change in the Plywood Section as set forth in (a) above, wage rates shall be determined as set out in the wage evaluation manual.
c)	In the event that job conditions change in the Lumber Division as set forth in (a) above, wage rates shall be determined as set out in the Sawmill Rate Determination Program.
Section 7:	Shift Differential
The first shift is the recognized day shift. Hours worked outside the recognized day shift shall be regarded as the second and third shifts. A shift differential of thirty-one
- 7 -
cents (310) per hour shall be paid for second and third shifts. A day shift employee working in excess of his regular shift shall be paid rate and one-half without the differential. Any employee on the second and third shift working in excess of his regular shift shall receive rate and one-half. For the purpose of the last sentence, rate shall be rate plus thirty-one cents (310). Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one (310) shift differential for all hours worked outside the recognized day shift.
ARTICLE VI - COMMITTEE
Section 1:
For the purpose of this Agreement, and in Schedule 2 on bidding Procedure when the word "Committee" is used, it shall mean Shop, Camp, or Mill Committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
Section 2:
The Committee shall consist of not less than four (4) and not more than seven (7) employees who are members of the Union, and whenever possible, they shall be selected on a departmental basis
Section 3:
The Union shall, within sixty (60) days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members on the Committee. The Union or Committee shall inform the Company in writing when any member change takes place on the Committee. No member of the Committee shall be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is carried out.
Section 4:
The provisions of Section 1,2 and 3 shall not apply in reference to:
a)	Article XI: Safety Committee, where the members are designated according to the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act, and;
b)	Under Article XV - Joint Committee.
- 8 -
ARTICLE VII - HOURS OF WORK
Section 1:	Production and Maintenance Employees
a)	The regular hours of work shall be:
Eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, with rate an one-half for any hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any one day and forty (40) in any one week. All production employees shall be paid rate and one-half for Saturday and/or Sunday regardless of the number of hours worked during the week except that:
b)	Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	Hours worked in excess of 11 hours per day.
ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five shifts during the preceding six days.
iii)	For purpose of (b) herein a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
iv)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
Section 2:	Office Employees
a)	The regular hours of work for office employees shall be:
Seven (7) hours per day and thirty-five (35) hours per week, with rate and one-half for any hours worked in excess of seven (7) in any one day and thirty-five (35) in any one week;
Except for the position of Draftsman, which will be seven and one-half (7%) hours per day and thirty-seven and one-half (37%) hours per week, with rate and one-half for any hours worked in excess of seven and one-half (7%) in any one day and thirty-seven and one-half (37%) in any one week;
Also except for the positions of Storekeeper, Assistant Storekeeper and Purchasing Clerk, which will be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, with rate and one-half for any hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any one day and forty (40) in any one week.
b)	All office employees shall be paid rate and one-half for Saturday and/or Sunday regardless of the number of hours worked during the week, except that;
- 9 -
Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	Hours worked in excess of 11 hours per day.
ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five shifts during the preceding six days.
iii)	For purposes of (ii) herein, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
iv)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
Section 3:	Casual Work
a)	The term "Casual Work” as used in this Agreement shall apply only to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-off regular employees or other persons hereinafter referred to as "Casual Employees".
b)	Casual work on production shall be paid for at one and one-half times job rate.
c)	Casual work on maintenance, repair and preparatory work shall be paid for at straight-time job rate.
d)	Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as casual employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said casual employees.
e)	Weekend cleanup work performed by casual employees, laid-off regular employees and part-time employees will be paid for at straight-time job rate except as provided in (f) herein.
f)	A laid-off regular production employee shall be considered a production employee during the week he/she is laid off and will be paid rate and one-half for any work he/she performs on either Saturday or Sunday except as provided in Section 1 (b) above.
g)	The Company agrees to keep separate seniority lists of casual employees for each division, who have worked at least ten (10) working days, in a division, exclusively for recall purpose and subject to Clause (d) further agrees to recall casual employees in accordance with more seniority as set forth in these lists.
Section 4:
a) Those employees who of necessity regularly work on Saturday and Sunday shall take two (2) other days of the week off to be mutually agreed between the employees and the Company. In such event, Saturday and Sunday shall be considered working days and overtime rates shall not apply on Saturday. However, these employees shall be paid rate and one-half for work performed
- 10 -
on Sunday. Overtime rates shall apply when the regular daily or weekly work limit has been exceeded. Overtime rates shall apply on the rest days of these employees if worked unless a change in rest days has been agreed upon between the employees and the Company.
b) For the purpose of this Section only, employees shall be Engineers, Firemen, Operating Millwrights, Maintenance Workers and Watchmen.
Section 5:
a)	Maintenance, repair and construction employees can be employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work week for which they shall be paid straight time for Saturday work. In such event, Sunday and Monday shall be recognized as their rest days and any work performed on their rest days shall be paid for at rate and one-half. The rest day, Monday, may be changed by mutual consent between the employee and the Company. In such event, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight time. If the employee works on Monday at the request of the Company, the rate of pay will be rate and one-half. However, if the employee requests a temporary change from his rest day on Monday, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight time.
b)	If a Statutory Holiday occurs on the employee's regular day off, he shall be entitled to take his next regular work day off without pay.
Section 6:	Alternate Shift Scheduling
a)	Management, Plant or Camp Committees and the Local Union shall have the right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturing operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour week is maintained over an averaging period. Rate and one-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday.
b)	Any variation (s) to the preceding Sections denoting normal hours of work shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
i)	Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Local Management.
ii)	Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations.
c)	When alternative shift schedules have been implemented in accordance with (a) and (b) above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
- 11 -
A.	Rate and one-half shall be paid for the following:
i)	The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours of the established schedule.
ii)	Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
iii)	All hours worked on an employee's scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
iv)	All hours worked on Sunday except those excluded in the casual section.
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	All hours worked in excess of A (i) above.
ii)	All hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday is also an employee's scheduled rest day, if the employee has worked forty (40) straighttime hours in the preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
C.	Schedule 7 - Alternate Shift Scheduling, contains the agreed upon general
principles and parameters for the establishment, implementation or
discontinuance of alternate shift schedules.
Section 7:
If three (3) hours or less in the Lumber Division and/or one (1) hour or less in the Plywood and Open Division, are necessary after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding a Statutory Holiday to complete a shift which commenced work on Friday afternoon or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding the Statutory Holiday to complete the shift shall be paid straight time rates.
Section 8:
The work week shall commence with the starting time of the first shift Monday, and shall end at the completion of the last shift which commences on the following Friday.
Section 9:	Three Shift Operation
a)	The Company shall have the right to operate the plant or any part thereof on a three-shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Company's option.
- 12 -
b)	Section (a) above shall only apply to those employees actually working on a three-shift basis.
Section 10:
The foregoing provisions of this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 11:
No employee covered by this Agreement who refuses to work overtime shall be subject to any penalties whether the refusal be singular or in concert.
Section 12:
All employees in manufacturing plants shall be entitled to two ten-minute rest periods during each regular shift; provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision.
Section 13:
Where maintenance, repair and construction employees are required to work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal, such hot meal to be consumed by the employees on Company time before beginning the overtime work. The hot meal will be made available at the Plywood Plant.
Section 14:
The Company agrees to discontinue the use of time clocks subject to the following:
a)	The general use of clocks be discontinued for a trial period of three (3)	months.
b)	New employees are to punch the clock for the first three (3) months of employment.
c)	Casual employees are to punch the clock.
d)	Employees who report late must punch the clock and have the card initialed by their Foreman.
e)	Employees may make arrangements with employees on the same jobs on their following shift to relieve them a maximum of ten (10) minutes prior to their regular quitting time providing they have permission of both Foreman involved.
f)	Employees may enter or leave their place of work by the North Entrance	only.
g)	Employees who work overtime must punch the clock.
- 13 -
h)	Employees who have been absent and return to work must report to their department foreman at the commencement of the shift.
i)	Employees who abuse the system shall be required to punch the clock for a three month period.
j)	Employees abusing the honour system will still be subject to Article III, Section 2 of the Collective Agreement.
Section 15:
That a Committee be established with I.W.A. Local 1-424 during the term of the 197779 Agreement to clarify the provisions of Article VII - Hours of Work.
ARTICLE VIII - SENIORITY Section 1:	Principle of Seniority
The principle of seniority, competency considered, shall be recognized by the Company and the Union.
Section 2:	Divisions and Department
a)	This Agreement covers all operations of the Cariboo Division of the Company in the Quesnel area.
b)	The Cariboo Division of the Company shall be organized for seniority purposes as follows:
1.	Plywood Division
i) Maintenance Department
2.	Lumber Division
3.	Open Division
4.	Office Division
Section 3:	Department and Plant Seniority List
The Company shall supply to the bargaining agent once every three months the following complete seniority list. The seniority list shall be kept up to date, particularly in the event of a reduction in forces.
- 14 -
1. Seniority Lists:
a.	Plywood Division
b.	Maintenance Department of the Plywood Division
c.	Lumber Division
d.	Open Division
e.	Office Division
Section 4:	Promotions or Job Openings
a.	Promotions shall be based on divisional seniority (except plywood maintenance which will be based on department seniority) and the provisions of the job posting agreements.
b.	Job openings (except those on base rate) shall be posted for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours.
c.	Employees interested in having their bid considered although they may be absent at the time of posting, may leave their "bid" with the Personnel Department and their bid shall be considered in case such opening occurs. A copy of such bid shall be given to the Plant Committee for checking purposes.
Section 5:	Lay-offs or Reduction of Forces
a.	In the event of a reduction of forces within a Division, the last person hired shall be the first released, by Weldwood Quesnel hire date seniority.
b.	Employees are retained on the payroll within their Division by their Weldwood hire date seniority. They shall have the right to retain their bid jobs according to their Divisional (or Departmental) seniority. Employees with insufficient Divisional seniority to retain their jobs shall return to the jobs previously held in the Division and in such case replace anyone holding such jobs with less divisional seniority.
c.	"Open Division” employees with insufficient Open Division seniority to remain in the Division shall bump back to their roots (Division of origin) where their Weldwood Quesnel hire date seniority will be used to determine whether they will be retained on the payroll.
d.	Plywood maintenance employees with insufficient departmental seniority to remain in the maintenance department shall bump back to the Plywood Division where their Weldwood Quesnel hire date seniority will be used to determine whether they will be retained on the payroll.
e.	i) During a reduction of forces where an employee's seniority is such
that he or she will not be able to keep his or her regular job he or she may elect to apply his or her seniority to a job paying a higher
- 15 -
rate subject to the competency of the person involved and the provisions of Section 1. Details to be worked out between the Local Union and the Company.
ii) During a reduction of forces where an employee's seniority is such that he or she will not be able to keep his or her regular job he or she may elect whether or not to apply his or her seniority to obtain a lower paid job or a job paying the same rate of pay or accept a layoff until his or her regular job becomes available, provided however:
1)	If during the layoff period the employee wishes to return to work and so notifies the Company, he or she shall be called back to work as soon as his or her seniority entitles him or her to a job.
2)	The application of this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his or her rights, bumping an employee with less plant seniority.
f.	Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions the application of seniority as agreed under subsection 5(a) may be postponed for such periods as may be necessary not exceeding three (3) working days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Committee as soon as possible.
Section 6:	Seniority Retention
Seniority during lay-off shall be retained on the following basis:
a)	Employees with less than one (1) year's service shall retain their seniority for a period of eight (8) months.
b)	Employees with one (1) or more years service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one (1) additional month for each year of service up to an additional six (6) month period.
c)	A laid-off employee's seniority retention as provided for in a) or b) above will be reinstated in the event of re-employment before the expiry of seniority retention and on the completion of one day's work.
Section 7:	Rehiring or Re-establishment of Forces
a)	In case of re-establishment of forces, "demoted" employees shall have first claim on their previously held jobs and in such event jobs shall not be posted.
- 16 -
b)	When rehiring after a reduction of forces, employees shall be notified by
telegram or registered letter if residing within a 100 mile radius of Quesnel, and they shall be rehired in order of their plant seniority, provided that they reply to the telegram (or letter) in the affirmative within ninety-six (96) hours and appear not later than seven (7) days from the time the telegram or letter was sent. However, employees resident in the Province of Alberta or the Yukon Territory shall be given one (1) additional day's time for reporting and any employees resident in any other Canadian province or the United States shall receive two (2) additional day's time for reporting. All employees shall, upon returning to employment within the required number of days of being notified by the Company, retain all seniority rights. It shall be the employee's responsibility to keep the Company informed of their addresses during lay-off.
Section 8:	Probation
a)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, all employees are hired on probation. The probationary period shall continue for thirty (30) working days, during which time such employees are to be considered temporary workers only, and during this same period no seniority rights shall be recognized. Upon completion of thirty (30) working days such employees shall be regarded as regular employees and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company's employ; provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) working days shall only be cumulative within the three calendar months following the date of entering employment.
b)	Clause (a) of this section does not apply to employees who move from one operation of a Company to another operation of the same Company within thirty (30) days for those laid off, and within ninety (90) days for those terminated as a result of a permanent closure.
c)	It is agreed that probationary employees will have preference over casual employees for any work performed during the normal work week, subject to competency.
d)	It is further agreed that in the application of (c) above, probationary employees will be called in for work in accordance with their hiring date, unless such call-in is beyond the control of the employer, and is subject to the employee being competent to perform the work. This obligation does not apply where the employee has worked one shift in the 24 hours period.
Section 9:	Reinstatement
In any case where an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory position and at a later date ceases to be a supervisory worker and the Company desires to retain their services, reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit provided however, that supervisory workers reinstated in the bargaining unit must return to the job held at the time of their promotion to a supervisory position.
- 17 -
Section 10: Absence Without Just Cause
An employee who is absent without leave for a period of more than three (3) consecutive working days, who cannot show just Cause for such absence, shall forfeit all seniority rights. This provision shall not interfere with the Company's right to discharge for proper cause.
Section 11: Part Time and Temporary Employees
a)	Weekend workers and others not desirous or available for regular employment shall be regarded as casual employees, and shall not accrue any seniority.
b)	Workers who are hired for temporary employment and signify that they are available and who are in fact available for permanent employment shall be considered as relief workers as soon as they have worked thirty (30) days within the three (3) calendar month period following their date of hiring, they shall accrue seniority from their date of hiring.
Section 12: Interdepartmental and Interplant Bidding
The seniority provisions of this Agreement shall apply separately to each Division and Department; and there shall be no bidding between Divisions, except:
a)	Job openings in the "Open Division” will be bid first in the "Open Division” and second in the "Plywood Division” and "Lumber Division”.
b)	Plywood and Lumber production and maintenance vacancies will be bid first at the site where they occur, second at the other site and third from the street.
c)	Positions posted in a different Division will be awarded by Company hire date.
An employee bidding from one Division to another loses their existing seniority and begins day 1 seniority when they start work in their new Division.
Employees bidding from one site to another will have 30 calendar days to decide to stay at the new Division and successfully complete a training period. If the employee chooses or does not make the training period they return to their previous job with their seniority intact. Employees keep their hire date seniority for vacations, service and layoff purposes.
- 18 -
Section 13: Hiring
It is agreed that companies signatory to this agreement shall give preference in hiring, competency considered, on the following basis, in the following order:
1.	previous employees of the Division who have both previous seniority and an application on file
2.	previous employees of the company who have previous company seniority and are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reductions in other operations of the company
3.	laid off employees of other forest industry companies in the communities, who are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reduction in excess of ninety (90) days.
4.	laid off forest industry IWA member of Local 1-424 and 1-425 who are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reduction in excess of ninety (90) days
5.	persons who qualify for preference, and wish to exercise their rights to preference, must make application within six months of the operational closure or the ninety day layoff period.
Applications will be kept on file as active for 60 days. After which time, applications must be renewed by the person seeking employment, or no preference shall be considered.
ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1:	Injury or Illness
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness for the term of this Agreement, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the Company. The employee shall have a reasonable period of time to present such medical certificate. The employee shall report or cause to have reported the injury or illness which requires his/her absence to the Company as soon as may be reasonably possible.
Section 2:	Written Permission
Any employee desiring leave of absence must obtain permission in writing from the Company for such leave, except in cases of illness or injury covered by Section 1 above.
Section 3:	Compassionate Leave
The Company will grant leave of absence up to a maximum of six (6) months without pay to employees for compassionate reasons or for educational or training or extended vacation purposes, conditional on the following terms:
- 19 -
a)	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application.
c)	That the Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant, or may postpone leave for educational or training purposes where a suitable replacement is not available.
d)	That the Company shall be required to notify the Shop Committee of its decision in respect of any application for leave under this Section.
e)	It is agreed that employees requesting leave of absence, for extended vacations during the period June 15th to Sept. 15th, shall only be granted such leave, once every three (3) years, and that a record be kept for the purpose of rotating such leaves.
f)	That employees making application for leave of absence for "extended vacations” shall apply at least one (1) month in advance.
g)	All earned vacations must be taken in conjunction with an "extended vacation leave".
h)	The Company will grant a reasonable period of extended maternity leave without pay to female employees where there is a valid reason.
Section 4:	Bereavement Leave
a)	When death occurs to a member of a regular full-time employee's immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence for which he shall be compensated at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay for his regular work schedule for a maximum of three (3) days.
b)	Piece workers who are entitled to bereavement leave shall be compensated in accordance with the principle established in Article XII, Section 2 (b) of this Agreement.
c)	Members of the employee's immediate family are defined as the employee's spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, step-parents, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchildren, stepchildren, sons-in-law and daughters-in-law.
d)	Compensable hours under the terms of this Section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
- 20 -
Section 5:	Jury Duty
a)	Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform jury duty, coroner's jury, Crown Witness, or coroner's witness on a day on which they would normally have worked will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay received for jury duty and their regular straight time hourly rate of pay for their regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received for jury duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of jury service and jury duty pay received.
b)	Any piece-worker who is required to perform jury duty shall be compensated for the difference between statutory pay received for jury duty and their job rate in accordance with the principle established in Article XII, Section 2(b) of this Agreement.
c)	Hours paid for jury duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 6:	Union Business
a)	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or elected to Union office. The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after the completion of their term of employment with the Union.
b)	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions, or as members of any negotiating committee of the Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada, in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
c)	In order for the Company to replace the employee with a competent substitute, it is agreed that before the employee receives this leave of absence, as set forth in Clauses (a) and (b) above, the Company will be given due notice in writing in the case of (a), twenty (20) calendar days; and in the case of (b), five (5) calendar days.
Section 7:	Public Office
a) The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
- 21 -
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of such office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for conducting Municipal business.
c)	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
ARTICLE X - VACATIONS WITH PAY
With respect to annual vacations and vacation pay the following provisions will apply: Section 1:	One to Two Years Service
The annual vacation for employees with one (1) or two (2) years service covered by this Agreement shall be two (2) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon five percent (5%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or eighty (80) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
Section 2: Two to Seven Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with two (2) to seven years service covered by this Agreement shall be three (3) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon seven percent (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and twenty (120) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Section 1 herein.
Section 3:	Seven to Fifteen Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with seven (7) to fifteen (15) years service covered by this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon nine percent (9%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1 and 2 herein.
- 22 -
Section 4:	Fifteen to Twenty-Four Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with fifteen (15) to twenty-four (24) years service covered by this Agreement shall be five weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon eleven percent (11%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred (200) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1,2 and 3.
Section 5:	Twenty-Four to Thirty Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with twenty-four (24) to thirty (30) years service covered by this Agreement shall be six (6) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon thirteen percent (13%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and forty (240) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1,2, 3, and 4.
Section 6:	Thirty Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with thirty (30) years service covered by this Agreement shall be seven (7) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon fifteen percent (15%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement or two hundred and eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1,2, 3, 4 or 5.
Section 7:	Vacation Pay on Termination
An employee whose employment is terminated shall receive vacation pay at the
appropriate percentage of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement
in accordance with the employee's years of service.
- 23 -
Section 8:
a)	Vacations for employees shall be taken at such time as mutually agreed upon by the Shop Committee and the Company when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired.
b)	All earned vacations must be taken.
Section 9:
a)	The calculation and comparison of the vacation pay amounts developed by the percentage of gross wages method and the hours times the regular job rate method will be completed and the greater amount paid to the employee within fourteen (14) days of the common vacation pay cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date. The Company's present cut-off or anniversary date method shall be continued unless a change is agreed upon between the Company and the Local Union.
b)	For the purposes of this Article, the rate of the employee's regular job will be the rate of the employee's regular job at the date of the common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date, as the case may be.
c)	In the case of a pieceworker, the rate of the employee's regular job will be determined by computing the employee's hourly average earnings for the days actually worked during the pay period immediately preceding the common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date, as the case may be.
d)	On the date when an employee completes one (1), two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24), or thirty (30) years of service and where there is a common cut-off date for all employees in the operation, the employee will receive:
i)	In the case of one (1) year, one percent (1%) of his gross earnings between the date of employment and the date of the last common cut-off date;
ii)	In the case of two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24), or thirty (30) years, two per cent (2%) of his gross earnings between the date of his last anniversary date and the date of the last common cut-off date.
Section 10: Vacation Pay - Percentage of Wages Method
The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations
with pay for an employee after one (1) continuous year of employment.
a)	Absence on Worker's Compensation up to a period of one (1) year, provided that the employee returns to his employment.
- 24 -
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1) year, provided that the employee returns to his employment. The employer shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 4.
d)	Absence due to time served on Jury Duty, including Coroner's jury, or time served as a Crown witness or Coroner's witness in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 5.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the employer in writing shall be credited towards entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 11: Qualifications for Vacation Pay - Regular Job Rate Method
a)	i)
have
thousand years of
In order for an employee to qualify for the amount generated by the hours times the regular job rate method, the employee must worked a minimum of fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in the employee's first year of service and a minimum of one (1,000) hours during the employee's succeeding entitlement.
ii) Where there is a common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeeding year.
iii)	Where there is no common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee's anniversary date in one year to his anniversary date in the succeeding year.
b) For purposes of computing the requisite hours the following will be included:
i)	All hours worked;
ii)	Statutory Holiday	hours;
iii)	Jury and Crown Witness duty;
iv)	Bereavement leave;
v)	Vacation hours;
- 25 -
vi)	Time not exceeding (1) year, lost as the result of an accident recognized as compensable by the Workers' Compensation Board and suffered during the course of employment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee returns to his employment.
vii)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of a nonoccupational accident or illness, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that at the time of the accident or illness the employee has been on the payroll for not less than one (1) year and that he returns to his employment. It is understood that the employer may require that the employee provide a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
viii)	Time lost as a result of lay-off shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for requisite hours.
ix)	Employees who report for work and who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any such shift for purposes of computing requisite hours under this Section. Any employee who qualifies for call time in a day shall receive credit under this Section for eight (8) hours or credit for the hours for which wages were paid, whichever is greater.
x)	All hours worked in more than one (1) division of the parent company as a result of transfer or lay-off.
Section 12: Employment Standards Act
Part 4 - Annual Vacation of the Employment Standards Act, S.B.C., 1980, c.10 and amendments thereto, except where varied or modified by the provisions herein, shall become a part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XI - SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section 1:
The Company and employees shall co-operate to assure safe working conditions and methods and to devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon shall be provided by the Company.
- 26 -
Section 2:
The management of every operation shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee (hereinafter called "Safety Committee”) of four (4) to twelve (12) members according to the size of the operation. Members of the Safety Committee shall be designated in equal numbers by the employees and the Company. Employee representatives shall be regular employees in the operation with at least one (1) year's experience.
Section 3:
When inspections and Safety Committee meetings are held in the same week and the total time spent by any employee exceeds the two hours provided for, employees are to be compensated at straight time rates for all time spent on inspections and Safety Committee meetings outside of normal working hours.
Employees who attend Safety Committee meetings or accident investigations during working hours shall not suffer any loss of pay. Plant inspections for safety will be done outside of the employee's normal working hours unless otherwise agreed.
Safety Committee members shall be notified at least one week in advance of the time and place of safety meetings. The Company shall make the necessary arrangements so that Safety Committee members working at the time of the meeting can attend.
Section 4:
Any one or all employees working in the immediate proximity when a fatal accident has occurred may, without discrimination, refrain form working the balance of the shift.
Section 5:
Two First Aid Attendants will be in attendance in the Plywood Plant if available on all regular shifts.
Section 6:
Suitable emergency transportation will be provided for the Company's operations in the Quesnel area.
Section 7:
Effective July 1, 1989, an I.W.A.-Forest Industry Safety and Health Research Program be established on the following general principles:
a)	The Plan will be jointly trusteed.
b)	The Plan is to be funded on the basis of an Industry contribution of one-half cent (%□) per hour per employee per hour worked, effective July 1, 1989.
- 27 -
c)	The trustees will be appointed in the first year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish objectives and operating and administrative procedures.
In addition to the funding provided for in the Agreements, the Parties agree to the following:
a)	When funds in the Plan reach $100,000.00, the Employer will contribute an additional half-cent (%n) per hour for a total of one-cent (1 n) per hour.
b)	When funds in the Plan reach $200,000.00, the additional one-half cent (%n) provided for in (a) above will be discontinued until the fund level is again reduced to the $100,000.00 level.
ARTICLE XII - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Section 1:
a)	All employees who work on New Year's Day, Good Friday, B.C. Day, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be paid rate and one-half for all hours so worked.
b)	In the event one of the above statutory holidays falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the statutory holiday.
c)	In the event of a statutory holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, and when the company and the Shop Committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
d)	In the event one of the statutory holidays falls on a Sunday or Monday, the employee's regular day off, the employee shall be entitled to take his/her next regular day off. This will apply only to those regularly employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work schedule.
e)	In the event one of the statutory holidays falls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or the succeeding Monday, or as agreed upon between the company and the Shop Committee.
f)	When a statutory holiday falls on a Friday, employees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, by mutual agreement between the Company and the Plant Committee, may work on the Friday Statutory Holiday at the straight time job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday.
- 28 -
Section 2:
a)	Any hourly rated or piece-work employee who qualifies for the following holidays, that is: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, B.C. Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day, under the conditions set out below, shall be paid for the holiday their regular job rate of pay for their regular work schedule. The hours so paid for the Statutory Holiday shall not be included in the weekly work schedule.
b)	The holiday rate of piece-work employees shall be established by computing their daily average earnings for days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) days.
c)	An employee working on a paid holiday shall be paid, in addition to his/her holiday pay, a rate and one-half for any hours worked on a shift designated as a "Holiday Shift".
d)	An employee, to qualify for holiday pay, must have been on the payroll thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday, and must have worked his/her last regularly scheduled work day before, and his/her first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his/her absence was due to a compensable occupational injury or illness, which occurred within six (6) months preceding the holiday, or such employee was on authorized leave of absence. In the case of illness or injury the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner. Notwithstanding the other requirements of this Section, an employee may only qualify for statutory holiday pay if he/she works one (1) day before and one (1) day after the holiday providing the said two (2) days fall within a ninety (90) calendar day period. Employees while on leave of absence under Article IX Section 6 (a) or any employee while a member of a negotiating committee under Section 6 (b) shall not qualify for paid statutory holidays.
e)	Employees as defined under Article VIII, Section 11 shall not receive pay for Statutory Holidays.
Section 3:	Personal Floating Holidays
This Section becomes effective September 1, 1978. This Personal Floating Holiday is
in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day but this Section shall come into operation on its
effective date even if Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed.
a)	Personal Floating Holiday
Regular full time employees will be granted one Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of the Agreement, to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production.
- 29 -
b)	Qualifying Conditions
When the Personal Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his regular job rate of pay for his regular work schedule, subject to the following conditions:
i)	A new employee must have been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday.
ii)	An employee will not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for more than nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury.
iii)	An employee shall apply on an approved form, at least seven (7) days in advance, for his Personal Floating Holiday. The employee shall receive notice of the disposition of his/her request a minimum of 72 hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday.
iv)	If an employee is required to work on his Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date has been designated for such holiday, the employee shall be paid overtime for such work at the rate of time and one-half. The employee will then be entitled to take the holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon.
v)	Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 15 of each contract year will be scheduled by Management.
vi)	A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on an employee's regular rest day.
vii)	Where an employee chooses Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday straight time rates will apply.
ARTICLE XIII - CALL TIME
Section 1:
Any employee reporting for work on the call of the Company shall be paid his/her regular rate of pay for the entire period spent at the place of work in response to the call with a minimum of, in any one day:
a) Two hours pay at the employee's regular rate except when the employee's
condition is such that he is not competent to perform his duties or he has failed to comply with the accident prevention regulations of the Worker's Compensation Board; or
- 30 -
b) If the employee commences work, four (4) hours pay at his regular rate, except where his work is suspended because of inclement weather or reasons completely beyond the control of the Company.
Section 2:
Notice cancelling the work call for any Division of the Company shall be sufficient if
given in the following manner:
a)	First Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given the previous evening at 10:00 p.m. and at 10:30 p.m. or not later than one and one-half hours before the shift commences, by means of two broadcasts within a half hour period.
b)	Second Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given between 12:00 noon and 1:00 p.m., but not later than three hours before the shift commences, by means of two broadcasts within a half hour period.
c)	Third Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given between 5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., but not later than three hours before the shift commences.
All broadcasts shall be over Station CKCQ.
ARTICLE XIV - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
When a grievance arises in the plant, under the terms of this Agreement it shall be
dealt with in the following manner:
a)	The individual employee and the Job Steward shall first take up the matter with the foreman in charge of the work, within fifteen (15) days.
b)	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be reduced to writing by both Parties when the Committee shall take up the grievance with the Plant Superintendent. If desired, the Union Business Agent shall accompany the Committee, and either party shall have the right to request the presence of the employee involved.
c)	If the grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Union and Management.
d)	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
e)	If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage, under b), c), d), or e), within fourteen (14) days after completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. Where the Union is not able to observe this time limit by reason of the absence of the aggrieved employee or the Committee from
- 31 -
the operation, the set time limit shall not apply. The Union shall be bound to proceed in such a case as quickly as may be reasonably possible.
ARTICLE XV - RIGHT OF REFERENCE
Section 1:
If the Company and the Union fail to agree upon an interpretation of the Agreement either party shall have the right to refer the matter to the Joint Industry Committee (hereinafter called "Joint Committee”) and if either party does make such reference, the other party must accept the reference.
Section 2:
The Joint Committee shall consist of three (3) representatives selected by the I.W.A.-CANADA, Negotiating committee and three (3) representatives selected by the Company.
Section 3:
Where an interpretation of the Agreement has been referred to the Joint Committee, this reference shall be for the period of forty-eight (48) hours or longer by mutual consent of the parties to this Agreement. In case the Joint Committee agrees upon a recommendation of interpretation, this shall be furnished in writing to the Union and to the Company.
Section 4:
In the event the Joint Committee members disagree all the facts in the case as found by the Union and the Union members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submitted to the Company and to the Union members involved. The facts in the case as found by the Company and the Company members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing and given to the Union member employees for their information.
Section 5:
If a satisfactory interpretation on the point in question is not reached, either party may refer the question to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE XVI - ARBITRATION AND INTERPRETATION
Section 1:	Interpretation
a)	In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation of this Agreement which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the matter
- 32 -
shall be determined by interpretation in the following manner:
Either party may notify the other party, in writing, by registered mail, of the question or questions to be interpreted. After receiving such notice and statement, each of the parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreter named in this Section.
b)	The decision of the Interpreter will be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
c)	It is agreed that___________________________________, shall be the Interpreter for
the purpose of this Section.
d)	In the event said Interpreter is unable to deal with any matter under this Section, the Parties will meet and mutually agree upon a temporary replacement.
Section 2:	Arbitration
a)	In the case of any dispute arising under this Agreement which the Parties are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by arbitration in the following manner:
Either party may notify the other party in writing, by registered mail, of the question or questions to be arbitrated. Each of the parties shall, within five (5) days, refer the matter to the chosen Arbitrator.
b)	The decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
c)	If any Arbitrator finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employee shall be reinstated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights and privileges preserved under the term of this Agreement, provided always that if it is shown to the Arbitrator that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge (or suspension) and reinstatement, or date of failure to rehire and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages payable by this Company pursuant to this Section.
d)	The parties agree with the principle of One-Man Arbitration. The Arbitrator will be chosen on a rotation basis from a group of Arbitrators which will be selected by the parties.
In the event either party is dissatisfied with the permanent choice of an Arbitrator, the parties agree that other choices of Arbitrators will be considered by both Parties.
- 33 -
Section 3:
The Company and the Union shall bear in equal proportions the expenses and allowances of the Arbitrator and stenographic and secretarial expense and rent.
Section 4:
Any arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held at the City of Quesnel or such other place as may be decided.
Section 5:	Expedited Arbitration
A Committee shall be established to develop and implement a system of expedited arbitration of grievances. The chairman of this Committee will be H. Allan Hope, Q.C. The committee shall report to the parties not later than December 31, 1984.
ARTICLE XVII - PAY DAYS
The Company shall provide for pay days every second Wednesday. The employees will be paid during their regular working hours, and each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
ARTICLE XVIII - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
Official Union representatives shall obtain access to the Company's operation for the purpose of this Agreement by written permission which will be granted by the Company on request and subject to such reasonable terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
Section 2:
The rate of Board and Lodging shall be $2.35 per day.
Section 3:	No Strike Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Union shall not cause, promote, sanction or authorize any strike, sit-down, slowdown, sympathetic strike or any other interference with work by the employees for any cause whatsoever until all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Company.
- 34 -
Section 4:	No Lockout Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Company shall not create or institute any lockout of the employees with respect to any dispute between the Company and the Union, or the Company and its employees until all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Union or its employees.
Section 5:
a)	The Union may refuse to handle material produced by a strike bound firm.
b)	The Union shall have the right to respect another Union's picket line. Section 6:
The Company shall provide plug-ins (for block heaters only) in the parking lot to accommodate all employees, at no cost to the employees.
Section 7:
It is agreed that the parties to the Agreement will meet jointly to discuss and implement a Planerman's Training Program.
Section 8:	Permanent Plant Closure
a)	Effective July 1st, 1982, sixty (60) days notice of closure will be provided.
b)	Effective July 1st, 1997, employees terminated by the Company because of permanent closure of a manufacturing plant shall be entitled to severance pay equal to seven (7) day’s pay for each year of continuous service and thereafter in increments of completed months of service.
ARTICLE XIX - FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
Forestry Environmental Committees shall be established by the Company and the Local Union.
The details concerning the structure, operation and terms of reference must be agreed to by the Company and the Local Union prior to implementation.
- 35 -
ARTICLE XX - MEDICAL AND HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 1:	Medical Coverage
a)	Medical coverage including Extended Health Benefit coverage shall be provided by the Company at no cost to the employee. The Extended Health Benefit coverage shall include hospitalization coverage up to a maximum of $8.50 per day.
b)	Medical coverage eligibility shall be the first of the month following date of employment.
c)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment.
d)	That the appropriate policies for Medical and Dental coverage be amended to provide coverage for dependents over the age of twenty-one (21) years but not over the age of twenty-five (25) years, provided that the dependents are attending a recognized educational institution.
e)	Effective July 1st, 1982, a Vision Care Program be instituted to provide for payment up to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period for charges incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription. Effective July 1, 1995 the maximum will be increased to one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per member or dependent. Effective July 1, 1997, increase the Vision Care limit by fifty dollars ($50) per 24-month period to a total limit of two hundred dollars ($200) per member or dependent in any 24-month consecutive period. Effective July 1, 1999, increase the Vision Care limit by a further fifty dollars ($50) from the two hundred dollars ($200) to two hundred and fifty dollars ($250) per member or dependent in any 24-month consecutive period.
f)	Physiotherapy - Effective July 1, 1995, the Physiotherapist/Massage practitioners' limit will increase by two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per calendar year to a total limit of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per member or dependent per calendar year. Effective July 1, 1997, increase the Physiotherapist / Massage Practitioners’ limit by fifty dollars ($50) from five hundred dollars ($500) per member or dependent per calendar year to five hundred and fifty dollars ($550) per member or dependent per calendar year.
g)	Chiropractic - Effective July 1, 1995, the Chiropractors/Natrupathis Physicians' limit will increase by two hundred dollars ($200.00) per member or dependent per calendar year to a total limit of four hundred dollars ($400.00) per member or dependent per calendar year. Effective July 1, 1998, increase the Chiropractors / Naturopathic Physicians’ limit by two hundred dollars ($200) from four hundred dollars ($400) to six hundred dollars ($600) per member or dependent per calendar year.
- 36 -
h)	Orthotics - Effective July 1, 1998, establish coverage for prescribed orthotics with a maximum limit of two hundred dollars ($200) per member or dependent per calendar year.
i)	Orthopedic Shoes - Effective July 1, 1998, increase the Orthopedic Shoes limit by one hundred dollars ($100) from four hundred dollars ($400) to five hundred dollars ($500) (adults), and from two hundred dollars ($200) to three hundred dollars ($300) (child) per calendar year.
j)	Hearing Aids - Effective July 1, 1999, increase the Hearing Aid limit by one hundred and fifty dollars ($150) from four hundred dollars every five years for children to five hundred and fifty dollars ($550) every five years. Effective July 1, 1999, establish the same five hundred and fifty dollar ($550) limit per member or dependent, every five years, unless there is alternate coverage provided for.
Section 2:	Institution
It is agreed that a Health and Welfare Plan be instituted with the principles hereinafter set out.
Section 3:	Provincial Board of Trustees
Weldwood of Canada Limited, together with Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Northwood Pulp & Timber Ltd., Canadian Forest Products Limited, and the I.W.A.-CANADA agree to establish one set of trustees for the purpose of developing a common text, a common trust agreement, and a common employee booklet for the six Health and Welfare Plans, covering Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, and Weekly Indemnity.
The parties agree that a Joint Committee, representing Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canadian Forest Products Limited, Northwood Pulp & Timber Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the I.W.A.-CANADA will be established to study the most effective method of administration of the Plans, reporting to the Parties no later than July 1, 1984.
Section 4:	Weldwood - I.W.A. Board of Trustees
The Board of Trustees, composed of two (2) members representing IWA-CANADA and two (2) members representing the Company, are responsible for the administration of the I.W.A. - Weldwood Health and Welfare Plan. The Trustees are also responsible for the selection of carrier, funding adjudication of compassionate appeals, and Health and Welfare problems directly related to the Plan.
- 37 -
Section 5:	Insurance Coverage
The following coverage will be provided by the Company.
a)	Group Life Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
effective June 15, 1997, $ 70,000.00 effective June 15, 1998, $ 80,000.00
b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
effective June 15, 1997, $ 70,000.00 effective June 15, 1998, $ 80,000.00
Effective July 1, 1994, the Plan will provide for coverage for accidents occurring at work.
c)	Weekly Indemnity as follows:
effective July 1, 1995, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten dollars ($10.00) per week so that the benefit level is four hundred and thirty-nine dollars ($439.00) per weeks or 52 weeks.
effective July 1, 1996, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten dollars ($10.00) per week so that the benefit level is four hundred and forty-nine dollars ($449.00) per week for 52 weeks.
Effective January 1, 1995, a "No Downs” provision be introduced so that the four hundred twenty nine dollar ($429.00) per week rate will not be reduced by further reductions by U.I.C. of the maximum insurable earnings number.
The Union agrees that if the Company maintains Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits which will meet the standard requirements for full premium reduction for "wage loss replacement plan under the Unemployment Insurance Act", the employees 5/12th share of the premium reduction is retained as payment in kind in the provisions of the Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits.
d)	In the case of disability caused by non-occupational illness, Weekly Indemnity benefits will be payable commencing the first day of any such absence where the illness results in the claimant being hospitalized as a bed patient and in cases where surgery is performed which necessitates loss of time from work.
e)	Absences due to the same or related causes will be considered one continuous absence unless the employee returns to full-time work for at least four (4) continuous weeks between absences.
- 38 -
f)	The Officers of I.W.A.-CANADA, Local 1-424 shall, upon written request, be permitted to examine statements of premium income, claims and disbursements of the above insurance plan. Such requests will not be granted more frequently than once every three (3) months during the term of this Agreement.
g)	Third Party Subrogation:
The parties agree to recommend to the Trustees of the Health and Welfare Plan that effective on the date of ratification of this Memorandum a third party subrogation clause be adopted so that the Weekly Indemnity Plan can be reimbursed from damages recovered from a liable third party for illness, injury or income loss. The Plan will be entitled to recover the full amount of benefits paid to the member which exceeds 100% of the member's pre-disability gross income. Gross income will be calculated by using the member's regular hourly job rate times (x) 40 hours. Trustees to work out the application and details, including the deduction of legal fees from the settlement and the execution of a reimbursement agreement.
h)	A. The Trustees of the I.W.A.-Weldwood Industry Health and Welfare Plan will
Be directed to amend the Plan Text to permit laser surgery (except where such laser surgery is for cosmetic purposes rather than for a medical reason) to qualify the member for a Weekly Benefit Commencement Date from his/her first day of disability.
B. The Trustees of the I.W.A.-Weldwood Health and Welfare Plan will be directed to make the necessary changes in procedures to allow weekly indemnity cheques to be sent directly to the employee’s residence, if requested by the employee.
Section 6:	Dental Plan
a)	A dental plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
i)	Basic dental services (Plan A) - Plan pays 80% of approved schedule of fees.
ii)	Prosthetics, crowns, and bridges (Plan B) - Plan pays 60% of approved schedule of fees.
i)	Orthodontic (Plan C) - Plan pays 60% of approved schedule of fees (lifetime maximum $2,500.00). There shall be no waiting period for coverage.
ii)	Effective July 1, 1998, increase the lifetime maximum limit for Plan C (Orthodontic) from $2,500 to $3,000 for children only.
- 39 -
Section 7:	General Principles for Health and Welfare and Dental
a)	Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by the Company.
b)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment.
c)	Any new employee who has not worked in covered employment in the last eighteen months will be eligible to become a covered employee on the first day of the month following completion of the probationary period. However, for such employee, coverage for the Medical Services Plan and for the Extended Health Benefit will apply on the first day of the month following the date of employment.
d)	Coverage will be portable in all units covered by collective agreements between members of Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp & Timber Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Ltd., and the I.W.A. and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the Industry.
e)	Coverage during lay-off will be provided as follows:
i)	Employees with one (1) or more years seniority - six (6) months.
ii)	Employees with more than three (3) months but less than one (1) year seniority - three (3) months.
iii)	In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he is employed for 10 working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
iv)	Also, an employee who returns to work for at least one working day and less than 10 working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any lay-off coverage to which he was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
f)	Weekly Indemnity coverage will be eliminated for an employee on an extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Article IX, Section 3, Compassionate Leave, provided however that such employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity coverage on the agreed upon day of return to work. In order to qualify for this coverage the employee must have returned to his place of residence in British Columbia unless his disability required him to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements of the claims adjudication carrier. In the case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurred during an extended leave of absence, the Trustees have the right to review certain circumstances.
g)	Employees on extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 3:, Compassionate Leave will pay their own premiums for Medical Services Plan,
- 40 -
Extended Health Benefit, and Dental Plan, while the premiums for Group Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will be paid by the employer during such extended leave of absence.
h)	Effective January 1, 1998, the existing Extended Health Benefits Plan will be extended to incorporate a medical travel plan allowance for necessary medical travel from remote areas when members or their dependents are referred by their attending physician to medical specialists in B.C. and such referrals require travel from the patient’s community of employment in excess of 500 kilometers round trip. The maximum allowance payable on behalf of any one member or dependent is $600 over the terms of the agreement. A Weldwood - I.W.A. committee will work out all of the details prior to implementation.
ARTICLE XXI - LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
a)	The Plan will become effective July 1st, 1982.
b)	Effective July 1, 1993, the Plan to be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis with contributions of twenty-two cents (220) per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute eleven cents (110) and the employee will contribute eleven cents (110).
Effective January1, 1995, contributions from both the Industry and the employees will be increased by six cents (60) per hour worked so that contributions will be thirty-four cents (340) per hour per employee per hour worked of which the industry will contribute seventeen cents (170) and the employee will contribute seventeen cents (170)
Effective July 1, 1995, contributions from both the Industry and the employees will be increased by a further two and one-half cents (2%0) per hour worked so that contributions will be thirty-nine cents (390) per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industry will contribute nineteen and one-half cents (19%0) and the employee will contribute nineteen and one-half cents (19%0).
c)	A Board of Trustees will be constituted with equal representation from the Union and the Industry, to be responsible for establishing the terms of the Plan and the on-going administration.
d)	The Trustees will select a qualified actuary to assist them and to insure the establishment of actuarially sound reserves to fund the benefits provided by the Plan.
e)	The Trustees will enter into a Trust Agreement which will include provision for a procedure to settle any major dispute that may arise with regard to the provisions of the Plan.
- 41 -
f)	Protection Against Withdrawals - Withdrawing employer to be assessed for both the employer and employee share of the unfunded liability in cases of negotiated withdrawal, decertification or relocation closure. Unfunded liability formula to be uniform and based on Plan Unfunded Liability divided by the total number of Plan member (at the time of most recent Plan Valuation) multiplied by the number of Plan members affected by the withdrawal. Trustees to be directed to amend the participation agreement accordingly.
Weldwood and I.W.A.-Canada will jointly consider plan modifications that will improve the delivery of Rehabilitation within the Long Term Disability Plan, and will encourage and facilitate the development and establishment of Disability Management systems in participating employers’ operations.
The Trustees are directed to develop Plan modifications that will:
i)	Improve the timeliness, effectiveness and quality of Rehabilitation from the Plan.
ii)	Provide incentives to Employers and Local Unions to establish Disability Management systems at the operations level.
In the event that there are savings to the Long Term Disability Plan as a result of either Disability Management Systems, or amendments to Rehabilitation, consideration can be given to dispersal of these funds for further improvements in either of the above areas.
Where the Trustees reach agreement on modifications in the above areas, implementation can occur at the direction of the Trustees. Should additional funding be required to implement the Trustees recommendations, their recommendations will be forwarded to the respective Negotiating Committees to be dealt with.
ARTICLE XXII - PENSION PLAN
Section 1:
The Parties agree to establish a Pension Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement of the Pension Sub-Committee dated August 17, 1977.
Section 2:
a)	The Industry contribution to the Pension Plan of one dollar seventy cents ($1.70) per hour per employee per hour worked, which became effective July 1, 1988, will be increased by seventy cents (700) per hour, effective July 1, 1992, to two dollars forty cents ($2.40) per hour per employee per hour worked. Effective July 1, 1993, employee contributions of ten cents (100) per hour per employee per
- 42 -
hour worked will be added to the above contribution rate.
b)	Unfunded Liability
Address the Plan's Unfunded Liability Issue by providing a one-time contribution of forty-four cents (440) per hour on November 1, 1994, and an additional onetime contribution of forty-four cents (440) per hour on July 1, 1995. Theses contributions will be based on all IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan hours worked by each of the parties of the first part during the 1993 and 1994 calendar years respectively and require no change to the ongoing shared $2.50/hour contribution rate for the term of this agreement.
These contributions, if matched by other Pension Plan Participating Employers, will result in the following projections of the unfunded actuarial liability based on contributory hours of 47.3 million hours in 1994, declining to 46 million hours in 1995, and declining by one million hours per year in each succeeding year to 2001, using a 8% interest assumption for solvency purposes, the Revised Mortality Basis, and Triennial Valuations:
1/1/94	$553.9 million
1/1/95	$461.6 million
1/1/96	$370.3 million
1/1/97	$283.7 million
1/1/98	$228.8 million
1/1/99	$171.2 million
1/1/2000	$111.0 million
These contributions will allow the unfunded actuarial liability to be fully amortized in 7.7 years from 1/1/94. (The amortization period in the Preliminary Actuarial Valuation of December 31, 1993 is 9.1 years from that date)
c)	Revised Plan
A revised plan will be developed during the life of the agreement, based on the $2.50 contribution rate during the life of the Agreement in accordance with Appendix #1 of the August 11, 1997 Memorandum.
d)	Bridging Funds
The I.W.A. - Forest Industry Pension Plan Trustees will be directed to investigate the feasibility and implications of amending the Plan to allow Company paid bridging funds to "flow through” the Plan so as to enhance legal tax effectiveness.
- 43 -
ARTICLE XXIII - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Section 1:
a)	The Company and the Union agree to institute the Apprenticeship Training Program for Tradesmen as outlined in this Agreement. The following trades to be part of the Apprentice Training Program:
Carpenters	Millwrights
Electricians	Pipefitters-Steamfitters
Welders	Forklift & Carrier Mechanics
Heavy Duty Mechanics	Fitters, Filers and Benchmen
Machinists
b)	Where the Company requires a person or persons to maintain a valid pressure certificate, they will notify the Local Union. The Company will pay the cost of the examination fee and fare allowance and lost time wages for the taking of the exam.
c)	If an official of the Department of Public Works requires welder to attend school, and the Company at their discretion still requires the pressure certificate, the Company will pay the cost of the examination fee, fare allowance, and net lost time wages.
d)	That a Committee will	be established to review and upgrade the Apprenticeship
Training Program.
Section 2:	Selection of Apprentice Procedure
1)	PURPOSE
The purpose of this agreement is to establish an equitable criteria which will give management reasonable assurance that the apprentice, upon completion of his indentureship, will become a proficient tradesman and to assure the Union and its members that the senior applicant who meets the criteria will become an apprentice.
2)	EDUCATIONAL PREREQUISITES
The educational requirement for general trades in Grade 10 or equivalent and Grade 12 or equivalent for the electrical trades.
3)	APTITUDE TESTING
Applicants will be tested in accordance with the bank of tests as recommended by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour. Testing procedure will be as follows:
- 44 -
a)	A standard set of testing instructions and procedures will be developed and authorized by the parties to this agreement and communicated to appropriate management and union personnel.
b)	The passing grade for the tests will be established by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour.
c)	The passing marks for the Mechanical Trades and Electrical tests are established as being a combined requirement of, firstly, seventy percent (70%) in the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations segments of the tests, and, secondly, seventy percent (70%) in the overall final scoring of the tests.
d)	All scoring computations of percentages in each section and overall scores of the tests are recorded as being rounded off to the next highest percentage point where any fraction of a percentage point exists.
e)	Tests will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by Management; a Union representative will be present when the tests are given and marked.
f)	Tests recommended for the self-evaluation will be made available and may be taken by an interested employee. Failure to take such tests shall not jeopardize an employee's application for any apprenticeship.
g)	Apprenticeship Selection Tests will be amended to provide improved selection criteria as in place in the Southern Interior.
4)	RE-TESTING
a)	It is agreed that where an applicant has failed to pass the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of either the Mechanical or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-tested one (1) additional time for each test.
b)	Results of all tests will be retained on file in the Company's office. An applicant who has met the criteria and successfully passed the requisite test and is the senior for any future apprenticeship posting within a three (3) year period, will be considered the successful applicant.
c)	An applicant who qualifies and has passed the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of any of the available tests, but failed the overall tests, will be eligible to bid and be re-tested for any future apprenticeship posting.
d)	A master copy of the tests will be made available to IWA Regional Council No. 1 on request.
- 45 -
5) MAINTENANCE, MONITORING, AND DISTRIBUTION OF TESTS
a)	Sufficient copies of the tests, answer sheets, and marking overlays will be maintained by Weldwood of Canada Limited, Vancouver Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia.
b)	Test materials will be supplied on request to those operations requiring same and will be returned immediately after use.
c)	Use of the tests will be monitored by Weldwood of Canada, Vancouver Head Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour the Province of British Columbia. Such monitoring will maintain a record of applicants' tests, successful applicants' scores recorded, seniority applied, and provide a follow-up of the successful applicants' progress throughout training and an appropriate post training period. Other information as deemed necessary by the parties to this agreement will be made available as agreed.
6)	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The successful applicant will be given a probationary period up to ninety (90) calendar days.
7)	SELECTION REVIEW
Where a dispute arises out of the selection of an apprentice, that cannot be resolved at the plant level, the matter will be discussed by Management and the Local Union.
8)	TRIAL PERIOD
This agreement is for a twelve (12) month trial period, from the date of this agreement. Either party may terminate this agreement upon one (1) month's written notice after the completion of the eleventh month.
ARTICLE XXIV - EVALUATION
Section 1:	Plywood Evaluation
a) The Parties agree to make joint application for the services of the evaluators from Forest Industrial Relations and I.W.A.-CANADA, when these services are necessary for the purpose of evaluating or re-evaluating categories in the plywood division of the Company.
- 46 -
b) Where Forest Industrial Relations and I.W.A.-CANADA have agreed to changes in the present Plywood Evaluation Plan, the Company and the Local Union agree to meet to discuss the possible implementation of these changes in the Company's operations covered by this Agreement. No implementation of changes may be made without prior agreement between the Company and the Local Union.
Section 2:	Sawmill Rate Determination
The Sawmill Rate Determination Program as negotiated between Forest Industrial Relations Association and Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada, will be instituted in accordance with Schedule No. 5.
ARTICLE XXV - TRAVEL TIME - SCALERS
Section 1:
a)	Marshalling points to be established by mutual agreement for Scalers.
b)	Travel time shall be paid for at straight time rates for time in excess of eight and one-half (8%) hours in any one day between leaving the designated marshalling point, and returning to the said point, provided always that the said eight and one-half (8%) hour period is based upon one-half hour for lunch and may be extended to a maximum of a further fifteen minutes where the lunch time exceeds one-half hour.
c)	Employees away from the designated marshalling point in excess of ten (10) hours shall be paid at rate and one-half for the period in excess of ten (10) hours.
d)	The Company shall avoid unnecessary delay in transporting employees from the marshalling point to the place of work and return.
ARTICLE XXVI - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Section 1:	Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Union six (6) months in advance of intent to institute changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or laying off of employees.
Section 2:	Retraining
The Company shall co-operate with the Government of British Columbia and participate in every way possible in training or re-training of employees so affected.
- 47 -
Section 3:	Rate Adjustment
a)	An employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of mechanization, technological change or automation will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply. However, such employee will have the option of terminating his/her employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 4 below, providing he/she exercises this option within the above-referred-to six (6) month period.
b)	Following an application of (a) above, where an employee is set back to a lower paid job because of an application of Article VIII - Seniority brought on by mechanization, technological change or automation he/she will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply.
Section 4:	Severance Pay
Employees discharged, laid off or displaced from their regular job because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of seven (7) day's pay for each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of two hundred and ten (210) day’s pay. This Section shall not apply to employees covered by Section 3(b) above.
ARTICLE XXVII - SAFETY EQUIPMENT
Section 1:
a) Where the following articles of equipment are required to be used by the Company or by the Worker's Compensation Board, the Company shall:
1.	Supply new employees with the articles of equipment as required.
2.	Supply employees moving to another department with the articles of equipment they require and that they do not have at the time of the move, or
- 48 -
3.	Replace articles of equipment as required when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair by an employee at no cost to the employee.
1.	Aprons
2.	Hard Hats
3.	Welding goggles, etc.
4.	Flotation equipment
5.	Dust protection
6.	Eye protection
7.	Ear protection
8.	Gloves
Notwithstanding the foregoing all articles of equipment to be replaced only when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair; otherwise the replacement will be at the expense of the employee.
b)	The Company shall be required to make available at cost, to those employees who are required to wear them, the following articles:
1.	Safety shoes
2.	Rain gear
3.	Coveralls
An employee who is required to wear caulk boots by the Worker's Compensation Board shall receive annually a caulk boot allowance of:
Effective July 1, 1994 - $120.00
i)	If he has six (6) months or more seniority, or
ii)	Upon obtaining six (6) months seniority,
iii)	Season lay-off shall not interfere with the qualifying period herein.
c)	Companies that supplied safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date of this Agreement, will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
ARTICLE XXVIII - TOOL INSURANCE
a) The Company shall, upon the signing of the Coast Master Agreement, at its expense, insure for damage or loss caused by fire or flood, the tools of its employees which are required to be used in the performance of their work.
- 49 -
b) The Company shall, upon the signing of the Coast Master Agreement, at its
expense, insure the tools of its employees which are required to be used in the performance of their work, for loss by theft where the tools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of $50.00 in respect of each employee's claim.
ARTICLE XXIX - CONTRACTING OUT
a)	The Company will not contract out any work that is performed by employees in the Bargaining Unit at the effective date of the agreement.
b)	Current practices in operations shall be agreed on with the Local Union in writing. Until such time as agreement is reached the above Clause (A) only will apply.
ARTICLE XXX - EDUCATION TRUST FUND (THE FUND)
The Parties agree to establish a Fund based on the following parameters:
1.	The Fund to be structured so as to comply with all requirements of a trust as specified by Revenue Canada.
2.	The Industry will contribute to the Fund and will continue such contributions throughout the period of the Collective Agreement. The contributions will be one cent (10) per hour per employee per hour worked effective January 1, 1998; and, one cent (10) per hour per employee per hour worked effective July 1, 1998; and, one cent (10) per hour per employee per hour worked effective July 1, 1999.
3.	The Funds will be collected by the IWA-Forest Industry pension plan Office and directed to the Education Trust Fund.
4.	The Fund will be jointly trusteed by representatives as appointed by the IWA-Canada and the industry.
5.	The Fund will be subject to annual audits by an independent public accounting firm selected by the Trustees.
6.	The Fund will provide funding for the purpose as defined by the following:
- 50 -
Education Fund Policy Statement
The strength of the IWA Canada relies on the continued commitment of the membership to effect positive change. There is an increasing need for our leaders and membership to understand and respond to emerging issues affecting the forest industry and/or our membership. We need to renew and build upon the historic principles of the IWA Canada through a comprehensive education program which will enrich union membership and enhance the objectives of the IWA Canada as a proud and progressive union.
To this end, the union will develop and deliver a wide range of programs which may include:
Grievance Handling Collective Bargaining Environmental Issues Land Use Issues Stewards Training
Parliamentary Procedure & Public Speaking
Communication Skills
Leadership Training
Economic Issues
Benefits Training
Health and Safety
Union History
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Fund will be used to develop and deliver programs, and to pay for administration costs, time lost from work to attend education and training, travel, accommodation and such other reasonable costs as the Working Committee determines appropriate regarding the operation and administration of the Fund.
7.	The Working Committee will be comprised of representatives of each
participating Local Union who would have responsibility for the development and delivery of Education and Training and Administration of Funds consistent with the purpose stated in point 6 above.
ARTICLE XXXI - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1:
This Agreement is a renewal and revision of the previous Collective Agreement entered into between the Company and the Union on July 1st, 1994.
- 51 -
Section 2:
a)	The Parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the 1st day of July, 1997, to midnight the 30th day of June, 2000, and thereafter from year to year unless written notice of contrary intention is given by either Party to the other Party within four (4) months immediately preceding the date of expiry.
The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the Head Office of the Party of the First Part, or at the Local Office upon the Local Officers of the Union, Party of the Second Part, within four (4) months immediately preceding the 1st day of July, 2000. If no Agreement is reached at the expiration of this Contract and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time an Agreement is reached or until negotiations are discontinued by either Party.
b)	The Parties hereto agree that the operation of Section 66 (2) of the Labour Code of British Columbia Act 1973 is excluded from the Master Agreement.
DATED this____day of____________, 1997.
FOR:	AND:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD. I.W.A.-CANADA (CARIBOO DIVISION)	LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
E. & O.E.
- 52 -
SCHEDULE NO. 1
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED, (CARIBOO DIVISION) EVALUATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD PLANT
GRADE AND RATE CHART
Gr.	Eff. July 1/97	Eff. July 1/98	Eff. July 1/99
Lev.	Increment Rate	Increment Rate	Increment Rate
1	$19.85-%	$20.25	$20.65-%
2	19.98-%	20.38-%	20.79-%
3	20.12	20.52	20.93
4	20.24	20.64-%	21.06
5	20.43-%	20.84-%	21.26
6	20.58	20.99	21.41
7	20.79	21.20-%	21.63
8	20.96-%	21.38-%	21.81-%
9	21.15	21.57-%	22.00-%
10	21.34-%	21.77	22.20-%
11	21.54-%	21.97-%	22.41-%
12	21.71-%	22.15	22.59-%
13	21.92	22.36	22.80-%
14	22.15-%	22.60	23.05
15	22.35	22.79-%	23.25
16	22.58-%	23.03-%	23.49-%
17	22.81	23.26-%	23.73
18	23.03-%	23.49-%	23.96-%
19	23.27	23.73-%	24.21
20	23.56	24.03	24.51
21	23.88	24.36	24.84-%
22	24.18	24.66-%	25.16
23	24.46-%	24.95-%	25.45-%
24	24.76-%	25.26	25.76-%
25	25.07-%	25.57-%	26.08-%
26	25.36	25.86-%	26.38
27	25.67-%	26.19	26.71-%
- 53 -
EVALUATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD PLANT
	JUNE 15/97	JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/99
GRADE 2	$19.985	$20.385	$20.795
Power Sweeper Operator Lily Pad Chipperman			
GRADE 3	20.12	20.52	20.93
#3 Dryer Feeder Lathe Charger Attendant Car Shorer Panel Bin Attendant
GRADE 4	20.24	20.645	21.06
Press Helper
#1 & #2 Dryer Feeder/Vacuum Feed Lathe Charger Attendant/Lathe Trainee Utility Man
Green Chain Offbearer #3 Lathe Charger Attendant Barker Building Chipper Op Core Splitter Operator
GRADE 5	20.435	20.845	21.26
Sheet Turner
Chip Car Loader
Dryer Grader - Offbearer
Strip Saw Operator
Sheathing Grader
#2 & #3 Lathe Charger
Attendant - Lathe Trainee
Greenchain Off bearer/Chipper Attd
Chipper Operator
- 54 -
JUNE 15/97
JUNE 15/98
JUNE 15/99
GRADE 6	20.58	20.99
Sheet Turner/5FT/3 person crew Core Feeder/5FT/3 person crew Strapper Machine Op/Stencilling Core Feeder - Odd & Even Plys Chip 'N' Saw Attd - Stud Offbearer
GRADE 7	20.79	21.205
Patch Line Patcher
Head G/C man
Asst Hot Press Op - #2 Press
GRADE 8	20.965	21.385
Dryer Grader Offbearer/Cert. D.O.
Oiler
Stacker/Strapper Op Forklift Op Finish End
GRADE 9	21.15	21.575
Fork Lift Op - Green end Tallyman
Forklift Op - Veneer & Spreader Glue Mixer
Forklift Op - Shipping / Tally
GRADE 10	21.345	21.77
Log Loader - Vat Loading Log Loader - Vat Unloading Core Layer
GRADE 11	21.545	21.975
Chip Loader Operator Core Layer/5FT/3 person crew
21.41
21.63
21.815
22.005
22.205
22.415
- 55 -
JUNE 15/97
JUNE 15/98
JUNE 15/99
GRADE 12	$21.715	22.15
#1 Log Saw Op Sizing Unit & Grade Line Operator Standby Lather Operator/
Charger Attendant Ring Barker Op Twin
GRADE 14	22.155	22.60
#2 Hot Press Operator Sander/T & G/Forklift Operator Grinderman
GRADE 15	22.35	22.795
Dryer Operator
Dryer Operator - Weekends
GRADE 19	23.27	23.735
#1 Hot Press Operator
GRADE 25	25.07	25.575
#2 Lathe Operator #3 Lathe Operator
GRADE 26	25.36	25.865
#1 Lathe Operator
22.595
23.05
23.25
24.21
26.085
26.38
- 56 -
PLYWOOD DIVISION CATEGORIES UNDER RATE DETERMINATION
(LOG YARD)
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/97 JUNE 15/98
Group 5:	$20.52	20.93
Log Deck Chaser
Group 6:	20.81	21.225
Long Log Deck Operator Group 8
Short Log Deck Operator 21.355	21.78
#2 & #3 c/o Saw Operator
Group 9	21.65	22.085
#1 Cut off Saw / Log Sizer
Group 10:	22.00	22.44
Licensed Scaler/Weighmaster Group 12:	22.775	23.23
Log Loader Operator
Group 14:	23.54	24.01
Wagner Operator
First Aid Attendant - Job Rate Plus:
Level II Certificate	500 per hour
Level III Certificate 850 per hour
JUNE 15/99
21.35
21.65
22.215
22.525
22.89
23.695
24.49
- 57 -
NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD PLANT
PLYWOOD MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
JUNE 15/97		JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/99
Chargehand plus .110			
Clean Up	$19.855	$20.25	$20.655
2nd Class Engineer	27.075	27.615	28.165
3rd Class Engineer	25.86	26.375	26.905
4th Class Engineer	24.485	24.975	25.475
Fireman (where the employee acting as Fireman has a			
fourth Class Ticket)	22.815	23.27	23.735
Fireman	20.94	21.36	21.785
Fuel Bin Bunkerman	19.855	20.25	20.655
Maintenance Utility Man	19.92	20.32	20.725
Steam Plant Utility Man	20.265	20.67	21.085
Steam Plant Utility Man			
(has 4th Class Ticket)	21.26	21.685	22.12
Truck Driver Plant	20.265	20.67	21.085
Truck Driver Plant (required to operate forklift part-			
time)	20.60	21.01	21.43
Warehouse Man Helper	20.175	20.58	20.99
Watchman	19.855	20.25	20.655
920 Operator	20.60	21.01	21.43
Cat Operator D8 (or smaller)	21.555	21.985	22.425
- 58
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
GROUP AND RATE CHART
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
JUNE 15/97	JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/99
$19.85-%	$20.25	$20.65-%
20.00-%	20.40-%	20.81-%
20.18-%	20.59	21.00
20.34	20.74-%	21.16
20.52	20.93	21.35
20.81	21.22-%	21.65
21.09-%	21.51-%	21.94-%
21.35-%	21.78	22.21-%
21.65	22.08-%	22.52-%
22.00	22.44	22.89
22.40-%	22.85-%	23.31
22.77-%	23.23	23.69-%
23.15	23.61-%	24.08-%
23.54	24.01	24.49
23.90	24.38	24.87
24.27	24.75-%	25.25
24.66-%	25.16	25.66-%
25.05-%	25.55-%	26.06-%
25.40	25.91	26.43
25.89	26.41	26.94
26.35	26.87-%	27.41-%
26.82	27.35-%	27.90
27.29	27.83-%	28.39
- 59 -
SAWMILL WAGE SCALE
ESTABLISHED BY THE SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
	JUNE 15/97	JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/99
GROUP 1	$19.855	$20.25	$20.655
Clean-Up			
GROUP 3	20.185	20.59	21.00
Green Chain Puller			
GROUP 4	20.34	20.745	21.16
Chipper Feeder			
GROUP 5	20.52	20.93	21.35
Sorter Bin Operator #1 Drop Sorter #3 Drop Sorter			
GROUP 6	20.81	21.225	21.65
#1 and #2 Trimmer/Rotating Sorter Stacker Operator			
GROUP 7	21.095	21.515	21.945
Pocket Edger/Fixed Chipping Heads			
GROUP 8	21.355	21.78	22.215
Forklift Operator Circular Gang Saw Operator			
- 60 -
JUNE 15/97		JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/99
GROUP 9	21.65	22.085	22.525
21" Semi Auto Barker Attd 30” Semi Auto Barker Attd			
GROUP 19	25.40	25.91	26.43
Circular Headrig Sawyer			
PLANER MILL WAGE SCALE
ESTABLISHED BY THE SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
	JUNE 15/97	JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/99
GROUP 1	$19.855	$20.25	$20.655
Clean-up Strip Piler			
GROUP 2	20.005	20.405	20.815
Clock Watchman Paperwrapper - End Sealer			
GROUP 3	20.185	20.59	21.00
Planer Chain Puller Breakdown Hoist Operator			
GROUP 4	20.34	20.745	21.16
Breakdown Hoist Operator/ Strip Piler Car Loader
Receiving Tilt Hoist Operator (Planer End Loader)
Planer Chain Puller/Grade Stamper/Checker
- 61 -
JUNE 15/97
JUNE 15/98
JUNE 15/99
GROUP 6	20.81	21.225
Chipper Feeder/Set-Up/Swing Saw Operator
GROUP 7	21.095	21.515
Strapper Operator - Tallyman Planer Feeder
GROUP 8	21.355	21.78
Forklift Operator
GROUP 9	21.65	22.085
Planer Feeder & Set Up Grader #2
GROUP 11	22.405	22.855
Grader #1
GROUP 12	22.775	23.23
Planerman #2
GROUP 14	23.54	24.01
Planerman #1
GROUP 15	23.90	24.38
G.S.L.A. Grader/
Grade Reader
ESTABLISHED BY LOCAL AGREEMENT
Grinderman	22.155	22.60
21.65
21.945
22.215
22.525
23.31
23.695
24.49
24.87
23.05
- 62 -
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENTS - ALL DIVISIONS
TRADESMEN, APPRENTICESHIP AND MISCELLANEOUS RATES
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/97 JUNE 15/98 JUNE 15/99
(Certified)
Carpenter	$25.86	$26.375	$26.905
Electrician
Heavy Duty Mechanic Millwright
Steamfitter-Pipefitter
Helper	21.065	21.485	21.915
Helper, 1st Year Completed	21.35	21.775	22.21
Improver, 2nd Year Completed	21.875	22.315	22.76
Improver, 3rd Year Completed	22.48	22.93	23.39
(1st six months)			
Improver, 3rd Year Completed	23.52	23.99	24.47
(2nd six months)			
Journeyman	25.36	25.875	26.405
Journeyman - Certified	25.86	26.375	26.905
Machinist
Helper	21.165	21.59	22.02
Helper, 1st Year Completed	21.445	21.875	21.315
Improver, 2nd Year Completed	21.97	22.41	22.86
Improver, 3rd Year Completed	22.585	23.035	23.495
(1st six months)			
Improver, 3rd Year Completed	23.52	23.99	24.47
(2nd six months)			
Journeyman	25.36	25.875	26.405
Journeyman - Certified	25.86	26.375	26.905
- 63 -
CATEGORY
JUNE 15/97 JUNE 15/98 JUNE 15/99
Forklift & Carrier Mechanic
Helper	21
Helper, 1st Year Completed	21
Improver, 2nd Year Completed	21
Improver, 3rd Year Completed	22
(1st six months)
Improver, 3rd Year Completed	23
(2nd six months)
Mechanic	25
Mechanic - Certified	25
Painter Helper	20
Painter Improver,	21
1st Year Completed Painter	24
Painter - Certified	25
Welder - Group 3	25
Uncertified
Welder - Group 2	25
(F1-103, DPW 1, DPW 2)
Welder - Group 1	25
(F1-101, F1-102)
065	21.485	21.915
35	21.775	22.21
875	22.315	22.76
48	22.93	23.39
345	23.81	24.285
165	25.68	26.205
665	26.18	26.705
87	21.285	21.71
88	21.32	21.745
965	25.475	25.995
465	25.975	26.495
16	25.665	26.18
665	26.18	26.705
86	26.375	26.905
Note 1: Must be qualified as required under the standard Forest Industry Welding Specifications and either having completed the three year apprenticeship program or having worked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours as a Welder.
FILING ROOM TRADES:
Saw Fitter Helper	21.065	21.485	21.915
Saw Fitter,	21.88	22.32	22.765
1st Year Completed			
Saw Fitter	24.975	25.485	26.005
Saw Fitter	25.475	25.955	26.505
(with Certificate)			
Circular Saw Filer Helper	25.475	25.985	26.505
Circular Saw Filer	25.36	25.875	26.405
Circular Saw Filer -	25.86	26.375	26.905
Certified			
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/97	JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/99
- 64 -
Benchman Helper	26.61	27.14
Benchman	26.11	26.64
Benchman (with Certificate)	25.86	26.375
27.685
27.185
26.90
Chargehand Plus .110
First Aid Attendant - Job Rate Plus:
Level 2 Certificate	500 per hour
Level 3 Certificate	850 per hour
Planermill Maintenance Technician
JUNE 1/97
JUNE 1/98
JUNE 1/99
2 Year Apprenticeship for Planermill Maintenance Technician II
Helper (During first 6 months)	$21.065	$21.485	$21.915
Helper (First 6 months completed) 21.73		22.165	22.61
Improver (First Year completed)	22.355	22.80	23.255
Non-Certified	23.765	24.24	24.725
Certified	24.27	24.755	25.25
A further 1 year Apprenticeship for a Planermill Maintenance Technician I			
Improver	$24.27	$24.755	$25.25
Non-Certified	25.355	25.86	26.375
Certified	25.86	26.375	26.90
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD. - LOG YARD			
WAGE SCALE	- NON EVALUATED CATEGORIES		
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/97	JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/9
Utility	$20.005	$20.405	$20.815
Strapper	20.185	20.59	21.00
Bucker/Marker/Scaler	22.70	23.155	23.62
Crane Operator/Repair and	23.90	24.38	24.87
Maintenance Responsibilities
Chargehands Plus .110
- 65 -
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD. - QUESNEL OFFICE
	WAGE SUPPLEMENT		- JUNE 15	. 1997	
	START	6 MONTHS 12 MONTHS		18 MONTHS 24 MONTHS	
GROUP 1	$16.395	$16.47	$17.41	-	-
Junior Clerk, Planer					
GROUP 2	16.47	16.735	17.105	17.875	-
GROUP 3	16.795	17.19	17.735	18.665	-
Receptionist Statistics Clerk Accounts Payable Clerk					
GROUP 4	17.105	17.55	18.135	18.745	19.47
Accounting Clerk Payroll Clerk Personnel Clerk					
GROUP 6	18.035	18.50	19.135	19.785	20.485
Draftsperson Woods Clerk					
GROUP 7	18.57	19.065	19.715	20.445	21.18
Storekeepers Senior Clerk, Planer					
GROUP 8	19.49	20.005	20.82	21.60	22.405
Senior Payroll Clerk Junior Accountant					
GROUP 9	20.165	20.81	21.60	22.425	23.26
Purchasing Clerk					
- 66 -
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD. - QUESNEL OFFICE
	WAGE SUPPLEMENT		- JUNE 15	, 1998	
	START	6 MONTHS 12 MONTHS		18 MONTHS 24 MONTHS	
GROUP 1	$16.725	$16.80	$17.76	-	-
Junior Clerk, Planer					
GROUP 2	16.80	17.07	17.445	18.235	-
GROUP 3	17.13	17.535	18.09	19.04	-
Receptionist Statistics Clerk Accounts Payable Clerk					
GROUP 4	17.445	17.90	18.50	19.12	19.86
Accounting Clerk Payroll Clerk Personnel Clerk					
GROUP 6	18.395	18.87	19.52	20.18	20.895
Draftsperson Woods Clerk					
GROUP 7	18.94	19.445	20.11	20.855	21.605
Senior Clerk, Planer Storekeepers					
GROUP 8	19.88	20.405	21.235	22.03	22.855
Senior Payroll Clerk Junior Accountant					
GROUP 9	20.57	21.225	22.03	22.875	23.695
Purchasing Clerk					
- 67 -
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD. - QUESNEL OFFICE
	WAGE SUPPLEMENT		- JUNE 15	. 1999	
	START	6 MONTHS 12 MONTHS		18 MONTHS 24 MONTHS	
GROUP 1	$17.06	$17.135	$18.115	-	-
Junior Clerk, Planer					
GROUP 2	17.135	17.41	17.795	18.60	-
GROUP 3	17.475	17.885	18.45	19.42	-
Receptionist Statistics Clerk Personnel Clerk Accounts Payable Clerk					
GROUP 4	17.795	18.26	18.87	19.50	20.255
Accounting Clerk Payroll Clerk					
GROUP 6	18.765	19.245	19.91	20.585	21.315
Senior Clerk, Planer Draftsman Mini Computer Operator					
GROUP 7	19.32	19.835	20.51	21.27	22.035
Storekeepers					
GROUP 8	20.28	20.815	21.66	22.47	23.31
Senior Payroll Clerk Junior Accountant					
GROUP 9	20.98	21.65	22.47	23.335	24.17
Purchasing Clerk					
- 68 -
SCHEDULE NO. 2
BIDDING PROCEDURE
1.	The Bid Sheet shall be posted on the plant bulletin board for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours.
NOTE: Woods bids shall be posted.
2.	The Personnel Department shall screen bid sheets for the successful bidder on the basis of seniority and competency.
3.	The Personnel Manager shall maintain a list of successful bidders on the plant bulletin board which list shall accumulate for three (3) months. As the successful bidders are selected, their names shall be entered with the date and, if possible, the date the job becomes effective. All bids shall be entered five (5) days after the bid sheet comes down. Successful bids shall become effective on the 6th working day after the bid sheet comes down.
4.	A "Successful Bid Sheet” shall be published weekly with copies given to the Department Superintendent, Foreman's Office, Payroll Section and Committee.
5.	In the event the Personnel Manager and/or Superintendent and the employee concerned and/or Committee Chairman cannot settle on an effective date which has been delayed because of exceptional conditions, a Committee meeting shall be held to appraise the exceptional conditions. Failing settlement in this manner, grievance procedure shall be instigated.
6.	(a) When commencing employment at Weldwood of Canada Ltd., all
employees automatically become part of a "labour pool". To get out of the labour pool and acquire departmental seniority employees must bid on posted jobs or be placed on a job where no one else has bid.
(b)	Alternatively, employees may find themselves in the labour pool owing to insufficient departmental seniority to remain in their department;
(i)	in case of curtailment of forces; or
(ii)	in case of the disappearance of jobs owing to technical change.
(c)	In the event that senior employees in the labour pool fail to bid, the Company and the Committee shall make every effort to place such employees. In regard to employees as defined under Sub-section (b) (i) an (b) (ii) above:
- 69 -
(i)	Placement by the Company and the Committee shall not interfere with the employee's right to return automatically to the jobs which they held before reduction when the jobs are re-established;
(ii)	The ninety (90) day bidding restriction (see Article 8 below) does not apply, and;
(iii)	Such employees may bid within the new department until such time as their former job re-opens; at which time such employees must decide whether to return to their old job (with no loss in department seniority) or stay in the new department (seniority starting at the date of placement.
(iv)	Nothing contained in (c) (i) to (iii) above shall interfere with the application of Section 5(d) of Article VIII.
(d)	Any employee in the labour pool who refuses a job in line with his seniority on any given day shall relinquish his seniority rights for that day.
7.	When more than one employee bids on a job and the successful bidder fails to qualify, all employees who bid shall be considered before the job is re-posted. However, if the job is not filled within six (6) weeks, it shall be re-posted.
8.	Department seniority shall start on the day on which a job is successfully bid into the department. Successful bidders within a department may not bid for any job outside that department until ninety (90) days have elapsed unless their bid is the only bid. However, a bid within a department is valid unless a junior employee in the same department who does not come under the ninety (90) day restriction bids for the job. Successful bids for the job training have no effect on the employee's power to bid for regular jobs.
9.	The foregoing bidding procedure may be revised annually.
- 70 -
SCHEDULE NO. 3
(REFERENCE: SEE ARTICLE XXIII) PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
1.	Principles and Procedures:
The implementation and administration of the job evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles and procedures as set out in a manual dated September, 1955, and entitled "Job Evaluation Manual for Operational Hourly Paid Jobs in the Plywood Industry of "British Columbia" as amended July 1, 1966 and as further amended April, 1971 (herein referred to as the "Manual").
2.	Point Range and Increment:
All jobs in Group One, the point range of which is 0 to 81, shall be paid the minimum rate for common labour as provided in Article IX, Section 1. The point range for subsequent groups shall be ten (10), i.e. Group Two (82-91), Group Three (92-101), etc. The wage increment curve for the plywood industry is as follows:
GRADE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
LEVEL	JUNE 15/97	JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/99
1	$19.85-%	$20.25	$20.65-%
2	19.98-%	20.38-%	20.74-%
3	20.12	20.52	20.93
4	20.24	20.64-%	21.06
5	20.43-%	20.84-%	21.26
6	20.58	20.99	21.41
7	20.79	21.20-%	21.63
8	20.96-%	21.38-%	21.81-%
9	21.15	21.57-%	22.00-%
10	21.34-%	21.77	22.20-%
11	21.54-%	21.97-%	22.41-%
12	21.71-%	22.15	22.59-%
13	21.92	22.36	22.80-%
14	22.15-%	22.60	23.05
15	22.35	22.79-%	23.25
16	22.58-%	23.03-%	23.49-%
17	22.81	23.26-%	23.73
18	23.03-%	23.49-%	23.96-%
19	23.27	23.73-%	24.21
- 71 -
GRADE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
LEVEL	JUNE 15/97	JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/99
20	23.56	24.03	24.51
21	23.88	24.36	24.84-%
22	24.18	24.66-%	25.16
23	24.46-%	24.95-%	25.45-%
24	24.76-%	25.26	25.76-%
25	25.07-%	25.57-%	26.08-%
26	25.36	25.86-%	26.38
27	25.67-%	26.19	26.71-%
3.	Industry Job Evaluation Committee:
There shall be a committee constituted and named the Industry Job Evaluation Committee (herein referred to as the "Plywood Evaluation Committee) to consist of one member representative of the Company, and one member representative of Regional Council No. 1, Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada.
4.	Function of Plywood Evaluation Committee:
(a)	The Plywood Evaluation Committee shall assume general responsibility for the administration of the job evaluation program.
(b)	The unanimous decision of the said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
5.	Plant Job Review Committee
(a)	There shall be a committee constituted in each Plywood Plant named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referred to as the "Review Committee"), to consist of two (2) members representative of Management and two (2) members representative of the employees. At least one (1) representative of Management must be a member of the Plant's salaried staff or Management, and at least one representative of the employees must be an employee of the Plant whose job is subject to Plywood Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed at the plant, and the Union may do likewise except that neither Party may choose as its representative a member of the Plywood Evaluation Committee or any person who is employed as a Job Evaluator by Forest Industrial Relations Limited or by Regional Council No. 1 of the Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada.
- 72 -
(b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly paid employees for time lost while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, regarding his/her own job, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly paid employees.
6.	Function of Review Committee
(a)	The Review Committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Plywood Evaluation Committee for further action. The documents required will include a "Request for Job Evaluation” form submitted either by an individual employee or by local Management, and a fully completed Job Description which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of the Plywood Evaluation Committee. The form of the documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them, and the time limits for completion may be amended as required by the Plywood Evaluation Committee under the authority given them by Article 3 of this supplement.
(b)	Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request for evaluation or re-evaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limit, the Review Committee shall, at the request of any one of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement, to the Plywood Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
(c)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job, it shall communicate that decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committee that an Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded to the Plywood Evaluation Committee will, similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
(d)	Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Plywood Evaluation Committee to determine the facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend any job, description or specification, submitted to them in support of a Request for Job Evaluation form.
- 73 -
7.
Application of Program:
The job evaluation program shall apply to all employees in the plywood industry except Journeymen, Tradesmen, Improvers, Helpers and Powerhouse and Boom Crews.
8.	Direction of Work:
Job Evaluation descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirements of the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restriction on the right of the Company to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that if the assignment of such duties changes the job content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure as set out herein.
9.	Re-Evaluation:
(a)	When a job has moved to another grade as a result of re-evaluation, the wage rate for the new grade shall be effective on the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation.
(b)	When a job is moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his/her job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of Paragraph 11(c) herein.
10.	New Jobs Created
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a new job, a temporary rate shall be set by Management. The permanent rate for the said job as determined by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be effective as of the date the job was installed. If the evaluated rate for the new job is lower than the temporary rate the incumbent (s) shall be allowed to continue at the temporary rate.
11.	Red Circle Jobs
(a)	The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circle jobs, the said list to include the name of the employee, name of job category filled, the evaluated rate for the job, and the actual rate paid.
(b)	Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
(c)	Employees holding red circle jobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for the job to which they are
- 74 -
assigned. If at a later date an employee is reassigned to his/her former job, he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
(d)	When the Company terminates a job, or a job is not occupied during a period of one year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established.
(e)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company he/she shall retain his/her existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to his/her regular job, the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
12.	Seniority:
(a)	Subject to the provisions herein set out, Article VIII, (Seniority) shall continue to apply.
(b)	Promotions shall be made only where a vacancy exists.
13.	Referral Procedure (Appeal Procedure)
(a)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review Committee.
(b)	When an employee's request for re-evaluation results in no change being made in the job grade, or in a reduction, or when Management requests results in no change or in an increase, the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall give to the appropriate Review Committee a short statement of the reasons for the decision. The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficient depth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
(c)	An evaluation done by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties but, at any time after five years since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of a job, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
- 75 -
(e)	If the Plywood Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the job evaluation program which falls within their jurisdiction the matter shall be referred to Forest Industrial Relations Limited, and to the Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada, Regional Council for settlement.
(f)	All communication between any Plant Review Committee and the Plywood
Evaluation Committee referred to above shall be effected by sending one copy to the Union representative or representatives on the Committee and one copy to the Company Representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of the appropriate Union Local and the Company representatives care of the Company's office at the Plant. In the case of communication to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, the Union representative will be addressed care of the offices of Regional Council No. 1 of the Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada, Vancouver, and the Company representative care of the office of Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
14.	Training Program
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by the Company and the Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada Regional Council.
- 76 -
SCHEDULE NO. 4
FIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED, (CARIBOO DIVISION)
AND:
I.W.A.-CANADA,
LOCAL 1-424, A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.
The following terms and conditions shall be applicable for the duration of the current Collective Agreement during "Company Responsibility Fires” in which the employer/ employee relationship exists under the said Collective Agreement.
1.	Definitions
(a)	Accidental Fire: Any fire not deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, and which requires active measure to extinguish.
(b)	Slash Escape Fire: Any slash fire ignited by the Company which has escaped the pre-determined boundaries and requires active measures to extinguish.
(c)	Slash Control Fire: Any slash fire ignited by the Company which is contained within the pre-determined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control and does not require active measures as contemplated in (a) and (b) above.
(d)	Company Responsibility Fire: Any fire which the Company is responsible for taking measures to extinguish pursuant to the provisions of the Forest Act.
(e)	Forest Service Fire: Any fire in respect of which the B.C. Forest Service accepts responsibility for direction of measures to extinguish.
(f)	Fire Fighting Rates: The rates of pay for fighting Company Responsibility Fires hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
- 77 -
(g)	Regular Job Rates: Rates of pay to employees for the performance of their regular jobs, as set out in the Wage Supplement to the Collective Agreement.
(h)	Statutory Rates: Rates of pay established by B.C. Forest Service for fire fighters.
2.	Company Controlled Timber
(a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Company employees to fight fire on Company controlled timber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled timber, which is threatening Company controlled timber, the Company will pay those employees at the fire fighting rates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement.
(b)	Where the B. C. Forest Service directs the Company to provide its employees for fighting fires in circumstances other than those set out in a) above, those employees will be paid at the statutory rate.
(c)	The parties agree to hold discussions, which will parallel any discussions held between the IWA and the F.L.R.A., regarding the application of this section.
3.	Fire Fighting Rates
(a)	The basic rate shall be $19.425 per hour effective June 15, 1994 and $20.01 per hour effective June 15, 1995, and $20.41 per hour effective June 15, 1996, and shall apply to all employees engaged in fighting Accidental or Slash Escape Fires except those performing one of the following fire fighting jobs:
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/97 JUNE 15/98 JUNE 15/99
Crew Boss	$22.985	$23.445	$23.915
Cat Operators	22.38	22.83	23.285
Power Saw Operators			
(own saw)	24.29	24.775	25.27
Mechanics/Heavy Duty	Mechanics Regular Job Rate		
Slip-On Tank and/or Trailer			
Tanks with Pump Driver/			
Operator	22.38	22.83	23.285
Water Tank Truck with Pump			
Driver/Operator	22.615	23.065	23.525
Service Truck/Bus Driver	20.615	21.025	21.445
Pumpman	20.975	21.185	21.61
- 78 -
(b)	Straight time rates will apply to all employees throughout the period during which the said employees are engaged in fire fighting. This shall not include cook and bunkhouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanics, or other categories, servicing, feeding or supplying fire firefighters from areas removed from the area of the fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day in question are exclusively related to fire fighting operations.
(c)	Regular job rates will apply only for the duration of the regular production shift in which the fire started.
(d)	Where employees are working in job classifications during fire fighting, other than those set out herein, job rates shall apply.
4.	Board and Lodging
(a)	Employees who commute from home or camp are expected to "carry a lunch”. Additional meals where required will be at Company expense.
(b)	Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
(c)	Employees living in fly camps will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
5.	Travel Time
Travel time for employees engaged in fire fighting will be paid in accordance with the Weldwood Agreement, except for the overtime provisions thereof.
6.	Slash Burning
(a)	All employees engaged in watching or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regular job rate and overtime conditions will apply.
(b)	The arbitration award of the late Chief Justice Gordon M. G. Sloan handed down on the 23rd day of February, 1948, shall apply to (a) herein.
7.	Interpretive Notes
(a) When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtime conditions for fire watchers will revert to the normal conditions provided for in the Collective Agreement.
- 79 -
(b)	Notwithstanding any of the conditions herein, if any equipment possessing residual value to the operation is manufactured or created, the work performed thereon shall be subject to regular rates.
(c)	The meaning of the word "extinguish" as used in this Agreement shall include the act or process of suppression to the point when the fire requires fire watchers only.
8.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement except as amended or modified herein shall continue to apply.
SCHEDULE NO. 5
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
Section 1:	Responsibility, Implementation, Continuity and Administration
The IWA-CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations Limited agree to implement and continue the provisions of this Article of the Coast Master Agreement and any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement as administered by I.W.A.-CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations Limited. The I.W.A.-CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations Limited shall be responsible for all aspects of the program.
Section 2:	Purpose and Method
The purpose of the Program shall be the ranking of applicable hourly-paid categories and placing them in groups according to their relative value within the B.C. Coast Sawmill Industry by using a method of agreed upon benchmark categories and related job descriptions.
Where new or significantly changed jobs do not fit an existing benchmark job description, the Parties agree to group such jobs by comparison to existing jobs where possible, in order to keep benchmark job descriptions to a minimum.
The Parties agree that the Details of Agreement as per Appendix No. 1 of the Memorandum of Agreement dated February 11, 1992 in respect of Mechanization, Technological Change or Automation will be implemented. Rate increases, if any, will be effective June 15, 1992. No incumbent's rate shall be reduced as a result of the implementation of this Agreement.
Section 3:	Application
(a) Sawmill Rate Determination shall be carried out at the Local Union - Local Management level in accordance with the provisions of this Article and the provisions of any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement.
- 80 -
(b)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall apply to all hourly paid categories in the sawmill industry except for those categories which have been excluded by mutual agreement between the I.W.A. Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
(c)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall not supersede existing in-plant agreements, signed on or before November 3, 1976 at the Local Union-Local Management Level.
Section 4:	Development, Uniformity and Co-ordination
In order to ensure uniform application, the Program shall be developed and coordinated by the B. C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board, consisting of an equal number of representatives from the Union and the Industry as follows:
For the Union:
One (1) Officer representing I.W.A.-CANADA and three (3) Officers representing the I.W.A.-CANADA Coast Local Unions assisted by one (1) Technical Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by I.W.A.-CANADA.
For the Industry:
One (1) representative of Forest Industrial Relations Limited and three (3) representatives of the B.C. Coast Sawmill Industry, assisted by one (1) Technical Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
Section 5:	Procedure
(a)	The Sawmill Rate Determination Program shall be administered jointly on a day-to-day basis by the respective Technical Advisors, subject to the approval by the B.C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board.
(b)	Any agreement reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union-Local Management Level shall be final and binding on the Parties.
(c)	If no agreement can be reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union-Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the Board.
(d)	If the Board is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union-Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the I.W.A. Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited in accordance with Section 1 of this Article.
- 81 -
Section 6:	Job Analysis Wage Curve
GRADE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
LEVEL	JUNE 15/97	JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/99
1	$19.85-%	$20.25	$20.65-%
2	20.00-%	20.40-%	20.81-%
3	20.18-%	20.59	21.00
4	20.34	20.74-%	21.16
5	20.52	20.93	21.35
6	20.81	21.22-%	21.65
7	21.09-%	21.51-%	21.94-%
8	21.35-%	21.78	22.21-%
9	21.65	22.08-%	22.52-%
10	22.00	22.44	22.89
11	22.40-%	22.85-%	23.31
12	22.77-%	23.23	23.69-%
13	23.15	23.61-%	24.08-%
14	23.54	24.01	24.49
15	23.90	24.38	24.87
16	24.27	24.75-%	25.25
17	24.66-%	25.16	25.66-%
18	25.05-%	25.55-%	26.06-%
19	25.40	25.91	26.43
20	25.89	26.41	26.94
21	26.35	26.87-%	27.41-%
22	26.82	27.35-%	27.90
23	27.29	27.83-%	28.39
The general wage increase provided for in Article V, Section 1(a) has been incorporated into these rates.
Section 7:	Incumbent's Rate
No incumbent's rate shall be reduced as a result of the implementation and/or continued application of the Program. The parties further agree that details of the Sawmill Rate Determination Program may be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end of each three month period from the date of this Agreement.
- 82 -
SCHEDULE NO. 6
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING
Section 1:
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related to "new" construction with tradesmen employed by an outside contractor, plant tradesmen will be paid the "outside" contractor(s) rate(s).
Section 2:
For the purpose of this Agreement "new" construction shall be defined as meaning:
(a)	The construction of major new buildings and major additions to existing buildings.
(b)	The addition of new or used major production machinery and related equipment not previously in existence.
Section 3:
(a)	"Tradesmen" shall mean journeymen and apprentices in the following trades:
Machinist
Millwright
Steamfitter/Pipefitter
Welder
Electrician
Carpenter
(b)	"Contractor's Rate" shall only mean the hourly wage paid by that contractor and not any other payment or working conditions.
(c)	"Contractor's Rate" will not exceed the rates for similar trades paid by IWA construction companies.
- 83 -
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Between
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (CARIBOO DIVISION)
AND
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424
in co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP & INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed by the Company as Journeymen, Improvers or Helpers in respect to the trades named in Article II herein.
ARTICLE II - TRADES
1.	Millwrights	- 4 Year Program
2.	Heavy Duty Mechanics	- 4 Year Program
3.	Steamfitter-Pipefitter	- 4 Year Program
4.	Machinist	- 4 Year Program
5.	Electrician	- 4 Year Program
6.	Welder	- to be established
7.	Carpenter	- 4 Year Program
8.	Forklift & Carrier Mechanic	- 4 Year Program
9.	Filers & Fitters	- to be established
ARTICLE III - GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Section 1:	Collective Agreement
All provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this Program.
- 84 -
Section 2:	Right to Continue
Once started in the Program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he passes all of the prescribed tests and work is available to him.
Section 3:	Tests
Upon completion of each period of training in the vocational school, an Apprentice will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he shall be required to withdraw from the Program.
Section 4:	Meaning of "Year"
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Improver, it shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days; the said period to include time spent at the vocational school.
Section 5:	Training Time Entitlement
Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice who is hired by the Company and who has had training in another apprenticeship plan will be given recognition of such training time.
Section 6:	On-The-Job Training
The Company will ensure that the Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training.
ARTICLE IV - SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
Section 1:	Seniority
When the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article XXII, Section 2, of the Collective Agreement.
Section 2:	Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned as Helpers for a three (3) month probationary period, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
Section 3:	Entrance Standards
Entrance to the Program will in all cases be subject to the applicant meeting the
- 85 -
standards required for acceptance by the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
Section 4:	Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpers and Improvers employed by the Company must enter the Program. Helpers and Improvers who cannot qualify in the Program will be reclassified as Labourers with no reduction in rate of pay, until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain a job with equal or a higher rate of pay.
Labourers will not be employed in a manner that will interfere with the application of the Program.
Section 5:	Age Limit
There will be no age limit for applicants.
ARTICLE V - TRAINING SCHEDULES
Section 1:	Assignment as Helper
All successful applicants, except Welder Apprentices (see appropriate Appendix), will be registered as Apprentices and be assigned as Helpers for an 11 month period, prior to attending vocational school, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
A program for the aforementioned Welder Apprentices will be established.
Section 2:	5 Year Schedule
	Rating	At Operation	At School
First Year	Helper	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Second Year	Helper	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Third Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Fourth Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Fifth Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Section 3:	4 Year Schedule		
	Rating	At Operation	At School
First Year	Helper	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Second Year	Helper	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Third Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Fourth Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
86 -
Section 4:	3 Year Schedule
Rating At Operation
At School
First Year Second Year Third Year
Helper	first	11	months	last 4	weeks
Improver	first	11	months	last 4	weeks
Improver	first	11	months	last 4	weeks
Section 5:	Electricians
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 2, 3, and 4 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shall be required to take 8 weeks at school during each year of the Program instead of 4, with the period in the operation reduced accordingly.
Section 6:	Passing Test
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribed test before promotion from Helper to Improver.
Section 7:	Journeyman Qualification
Following completion of the period of training as required herein, and upon becoming certified, he shall receive certified Journeyman's rate of pay if a Journeyman's job is available. If, however, a Journeyman's job is not available he shall be entitled to exercise his plant seniority for job entitlement. If in the exercise of his seniority he is retained as an Improver, he shall not be required to perform a Journeyman's work or take the place of a Journeyman.
Section 8:	Vocational School Delay
If any of the periods provided for in Sections 2, 3, 4 or 5 herein are exceeded by reason of vocational school facilities being unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements.
ARTICLE VI - WAGE RATES Section 1:	Rates and Increments
a)	Wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement.
b)	An Apprentice who passes his test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his second term year as a helper.
c)	The Wage Rate for an Improver shall be that as specified in the Wage Supplement.
- 87 -
d)	An Apprentice who passes a test in the fourth period of vocational training shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his second term as an Improver.
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen, and who are certified as such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade, as agreed to between the Company and the Union.
Section 2:	Expenses
Fares, Lost Time Pay, and School Expenses are to be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as part of the cost of the Apprenticeship Plan, with the exception that the employer shall pay the Apprentice while attending vocational school, the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Single persons shall receive their wages, less the sum paid to them by the appropriate Government authorities. Married persons shall receive their wages, less the sum paid to single persons by the appropriate Government authorities.
Section 3:	Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one of the tests under this Program, through no fault of his own, the delay shall not prejudice his right to wage increments provided for in Section 1 herein.
ARTICLE VII - ADVISORY BOARD
Section 1:	Constitution
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two (2) representatives of the Industry, two (2) from the Union, one (1) representing the Vocational School, and one (1) from the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
Section 2:	Responsibility
The Board shall be responsible for advising the Department of Labour, Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch, regarding the content of tests, standards of marking, and the school curriculum with respect to registered Apprentices. The Board shall not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests.
- 88 -
ARTICLE VIII - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 2:
Persons employed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesman Qualification Exam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 3:
If a present Journeyman fails to pass the test for a voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification Certificate, he can then become indentured as an Apprentice at no reduction in rate of pay.
Section 4:
There will be a three-man committee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification, or who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualification Act. The committee will also determine what vocational training is necessary for persons indentured as Apprentices. Representation on the committee shall consist of the following:
a)	One (1) Representative from	the	Union.
b)	One (1) Representative from	the	Industry.
c)	One (1) Representative from	the	Apprenticeship	Branch.
Vocational training will be conducted during day courses. Textbooks and study material will be made available when required.
ARTICLE IX - TOOLS
Section 1:
All Journeymen tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for the Journeyman rate, unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the Journeyman.
- 89 -
Section 2:
The Improver shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of building up the necessary tools to equip himself for the job.
Section 3:
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools and shall use those designated to him. However, in his own interest he should commence the process of building up a tool kit
- 90 -
July 1st, 1991
IWA-CANADA
LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
PRINCE GEORGE, B.C.
Dear Sirs:
We wish to confirm our Agreement originally drawn up March 25th, 1955 for the
duration of our present Agreement in regard to logging contractors employed by the
Company in the Quesnel area.
1.	We shall hold our uncertified logging contractors responsible to abide by the relevant provisions of the present Agreement, in particular as it regards wage scale, holiday pay and seniority clauses. Dues for all employees and a list of employees for whom dues are submitted must be submitted to the Local Union once a month, without application for Union membership.
2.	The seniority provisions are interpreted as follows:
a)	Men working for any contractors gather seniority on that operation only.
b)	If another contractor or ourselves takes over all or part of one operation, men whose jobs essentially continue under the new setup will retain their jobs and go on the new contractor's seniority list as per the date they were hired by the previous contractor. If we take over the part of the operation, such men will be transferred to the "Seniority list” of our Woods Department in the manner described above.
c)	If, due to layoff or reorganization of a show or for any other reason, a man's job "disappears", he has no claim to be transferred to any other logging show, the plywood mill or sawmill.
3.	The Company will encourage logging contractors to make reasonable arrangements to help compensate for travelling were no camp is provided.
../2
- 91 -
IWA LOCAL 1-424, Prince George July 1, 1991 Page 2
4.	New wage categories paid or negotiated by our contractors (i.e. categories other than or higher than set out in our Agreement) bind us (or future contractors) only if they have been approved by an Officer of Weldwood of Canada.
5.	The Company agreed to notify the IWA as regards the commencement date of new logging shows.
Yours truly,
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
- 92 -
July 1st, 1991
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C., PRINCE GEORGE, B.C.
Dear Sirs:
RE:	CHARGE HAND
The normal duties of a Charge Hand are to transmit work orders to direct the activities of a group of workers in his charge. He may from time to time supervise a shift on a temporary basis, but will not assume the responsibility of a Foreman for an extended period of time.
He may or may not perform work within his area of supervision. He, as a Union member, is not granted the right to hire or discharge.
None of the foregoing is intended to restrict any of the usual activities of a Charge Hand in this operation but merely to clarify the fact that the Company does not give Charge Hands the right to hire or discharge employees.
Yours truly,
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (CARIBOO DIVISION)
OTEU 15
- 93 -
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED CARIBOO DIVISION QUESNEL, B.C.
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm our understanding that the Union will agree to sit down and negotiate during the term of the 1991-1994 Collective Agreement a continuous production schedule.
It is understood that at such time, all aspects of hours of work and wages to be affected will also be opened for negotiation; and it be further understood that any proposed agreement on this proposal must be ratified by secret ballot vote of the members of the IWA-CANADA, Local 1-424, employed by Weldwood of Canada Limited at Quesnel,
B.	C.
Yours truly,
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424,
C.	L.C.
President
Financial Secretary E. & O.E.
OTEU 15
- 94 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED CARIBOO DIVISION
AND:
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
RE: JOB POSTING (TEMPORARY JOBS)
Temporary jobs must be posted if more than three weeks known duration, excluding vacations, with the successful bidder having the right to return to his regular job when the temporary job expires.
To qualify for a temporary posting the bidder must be qualified to perform the job.
Employees holding trainee positions shall not be permitted to bid on temporary jobs except on jobs in the category in which they are training.
Temporary jobs shall be reposted as permanent jobs when it is indicated that the absent employee will not return.
RE: OVERTIME ON DRYERS
The Local Union agrees to overtime work on the dryers provided that:
1.	Normal plant production be maintained on a five (5) day per week schedule.
2.	Any additional overtime required in excess of (1) above to be discussed by the Local Union and the Company.
3.	This letter of Understanding is to apply to dryer overtime only.
4.	It is further understood that the general principles which have been followed	on
dryer overtime will prevail as follows:
a) Overtime will be equalized as much as possible, i.e. one man will not get two overtime shifts on a weekend if it is possible to get another man.
- 95 -
c)	Spares who have seniority and are on layoff will get
preference on the unskilled jobs.
c)	The following jobs will be manned by experienced personnel in all cases if possible; dryer operators, jeep driver, four dryer-grader offbearers, two patchers and one reclip operator.
d)	Foremen will control and supervise the above points.
RE:	ATTENDANCE AT GRIEVANCE MEETINGS
The parties hereby agree that for the purpose of grievance meetings, arrangements shall be made allowing all members of the Plant Committee to attend such meetings without suffering any loss of pay.
It is further agreed that prior to taking up any individual grievance, the Committee shall have the right to examine the employee's record with the Personnel office.
RE:	HOT DRYER CLEANING
It is mutually agreed that the members of the cleaning crew will rotate, at reasonable periods, to the "hot spot”, and, further agreed that the Company will supply some type of protective overgarment to each of the cleaning crew.
RE:	SELECTIVE EMPLOYMENT
The Company agrees that when an employee, who requires selective employment because of accident or extended illness, returns to work the Company will, within twenty-four (24) hours after the employee has returned to work, inform the Plant Committee of the employee's name and to what work he has been assigned.
Where a dispute arises about the suitability of the work to which the employee has been assigned, the Committee and the Company shall meet and attempt to resolve the matter.
RE:	MULTIPLE QUALIFICATIONS ON BID SHEETS
The Parties agree that Multiple Qualifications shall not be used on the Bid Sheets.
- 96 -
RE: WORKING FOREMEN
It is agreed that Foremen and persons excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform work usually performed by employees in the bargaining unit except for instruction, experiments, quality control or in an emergency where no one in the bargaining unit is either available or capable of performing the work required.
RE:	INTERPRETATION ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Further to our discussion, during negotiations in regard to Article IX - Leave of Absence in the new Agreement, the Local Union agrees that Article IX, Section 3, as it applies to Leaves of Absence for educational and training purposes, should be clarified as to intent and propose the following interpretation:
1.	The Company will only be obliged to grant Leaves of Absence for educational and training purposes to employees who intend to take training that will assist the individual in obtaining skills related to the industry.
2.	The Local Union agrees that Article IX, Section 3, as it applies to compassionate leave be interpreted as follows:
The company will only be obliged to grant extended compassionate leave to employees in cases of emergency such as illness or death in the family, or in cases where the individual is designated to act as Administrator of an estate.
3.	Requests for Leave of Absence for personal reasons other than compassionate or educational training will be subject to the provisions of Sections 2 and 3,
Article IX of the Collective Agreement.
The Parties agree that in the application of Article IX, Leave of Absence, Section 3, Compassionate Leave, the following criteria shall be used in determining an employee's eligibility.
1.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to those employees with more than two (2) years continuous service.
2.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be granted based on one (1) month leave of absence for each year of continuous service to a maximum of six (6) months.
3.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to a maximum of one (1) leave in a three (3) calendar year period.
- 97 -
4.	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes will be limited to four (4) employees off on leave at any one time in the plywood section, one (1) employee off on leave at any one time in the logging section, two (2) employees off on leave at any one time in the sawmill division, one (1) employee off on leave at any one time in the planermill division, one (1) employee off on leave at any one time in the plywood maintenance department.
6.	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes will be granted on a
first come/first serve basis.
RE:	WAGE REVISIONS
This is to confirm our Agreement that wage revisions negotiated on the Coast will apply to the Weldwood operations at Quesnel. In applying such revisions it will be done on the basis of job comparison rather than simply job title.
RE:	ESTABLISHMENT OF FORCES
The Parties agree that when forces are re-established, employees shall return to their previously held jobs as soon as possible but not later than the first shift following the first weekend.
RE:	NEW CONCEPTS COMMITTEE
The Parties agree to establish a committee to study new concepts, including industrial democracy, of ways to improve labour management relations between the above named Parties.
RE:	EMPLOYEE AND FAMILY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The Parties agree to establish a Joint Committee consisting of two (2) members from the IWA-CANADA and two (2) members from the Company, to study the practicability of a Troubled Employee Program. Details to be worked out between the parties.
RE:	GRADERS
The Parties agree that the grade stamp currently in use at the Cariboo Division will be recognized as a grade stamp issued by an inspection service under a Grade Stamp License Agreement in accordance with the provisions of the B. C. Coast Sawmill Rate Determination Program.
- 98 -
The Lumber Grader job categories that appear in the Cariboo Wage Supplements are as follows:
Group 14- G.S.L.S. Grader Group 11 - No. 1 Grader Group 9 - No. 2 Grader
For the purpose of establishing where Graders fit within these levels, the following procedure will apply:
1.	Graders with "A" Tickets will be paid G.S.L.A. Grader's rate.
2.	Graders with "B" Tickets will be paid No. 1 Grader's rate until they have repeated the complete Grader's Course and written the test in an attempt to get an "A" Ticket. Even if they do not achieve an "A" Ticket, they will be elevated to a G.S.L.A. Grader's rate.
3.	Graders with no ticket will be paid a No. 2 Grader's rate.
The Parties further agree that the resulting rate changes will be paid retroactively from September 1, 1977.
The Parties finally agree that this Letter of Understanding may be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end of each three-month period from the date of this Agreement.
RE: TRAINING FOR FIREFIGHTERS, 4TH CLASS ENGINEER
The purpose of this Letter of Understanding is to improve the technical background of people in the Boilerhouse and open up a line of progression in the Steam Plant and a specific agreement re the Training Program for the entry position for Fireman with Fourth Class Ticket.
1.	Future Boilerhouse Utility vacancies will be posted as Trainee positions for Fireman with 4th Class Ticket. The successful candidate will be selected on the basis of seniority, and the successful completion of the Apprentice Selection Tests (Mechanical).
2.	Applicants must be High School graduates including Grade 12 Mathematics or B.C. equivalent.
3.	Successful bidders will enroll in the Department of Education correspondence course for 4th Class Engineers, and should complete the course within twelve (12) months. They would keep the Chief Engineer advised of their progress.
4.	To remain in the Utility position, the trainee must complete the Fourth Class
- 99 -
Certificate course and examination as set out in the Leave of Absence for Stationery Engineers Training Agreement within sixteen (16) months.
5.	Trainees will be utilized as relief Fireman when the Chief Engineer feels they have become familiar with the position of Fireman.
6.	Once trainees have their 4th Class Ticket, they would qualify for bidding on the next permanent Fireman's position.
7 Boilerhouse Utility Trainees on obtaining their 4th Class Ticket will be paid the Boilerhouse rate assigned to the Fireman category.
8.	Present Boilerhouse Utility bid holders not in possession of a 4th Class Stationery Engineering Certificate will be able to bid on future Fireman positions. On obtaining such bid, he will be required to enrol in the Department of Education Correspondence Course for a 4th Class Certificate and complete the course and examination as set out in the Leave of Absence for Stationery Engineers Training Agreement, within eighteen (18) months. If he does not pass the course or examination, he will be given a second opportunity to do so. This must be completed within six (6) months. Failing a second time, he will be required to withdraw from the program, but will keep the bid position of Fireman.
9.	This Agreement shall take effect of August 28th, 1981 and is subject to review at the request of either party after two months written notice.
RE: ARTICLE XI, SECTION 4 - PERSONAL FLOATING HOLIDAY
The purpose of this Letter of Understanding is to clarify the administration of the
Personal Floating Holiday.
a)	The Parties agree that a regular, full-time employee, when taking his Personal Floating Holiday as provided for in Article XI, Section 4, must have worked his last regularly scheduled work day before, and his first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his absence is due to illness or an occupational injury, or the employee is on authorized leave of absence (subject to Article XI, sub-section 4(b) (iii).
b)	The Parties agree that when an employee has been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days and terminates for whatever reason, and he has not previously taken his Personal Floating Holiday then he shall be paid his Personal Floating Holiday.
c)	The Parties further agree that payment of the Personal Floating Holiday upon termination shall not be construed as an extension of his period of employment.
- 100 -
RE: APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Where an employee voluntarily leaves the apprenticeship program, he/she shall forfeit all right to train in that trade, unless there is evidence of immaturity or poor health at the time of the bidding off the job. In such a case, Management agrees to review a new bid but one (1) year must pass from the date of the occurrence.
DATED this
day of
1991.
FOR:	FOR:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED IWA-CANADA (CARIBOO DIVISION)	LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
President
Financial Secretary
E. & O. E.
- 101 -
SCHEDULE NO. 7
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A. FLEXIBILITY OF HOURS OF WORK
The Parties recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in the Hours of Work Article, for the express purpose of better utilization of manpower and capital such as:
Balancing of production Maintenance Market requirements Even flow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuous scheduling (eg. Logging, Engineers, Firemen,
Maintenance, Watchmen)
B. SHIFT SCHEDULING
The parties agree that the following shift schedules will provide the flexibility required to meet the needs expressed above.
1.	Logging
i)	compressed schedules consisting of 10 hours per day, 4 days per week;
ii)	non-continuous schedules such as 10 days on, 4 days off.
2.	Manufacturing
i)	2 crews working 4 days,	10 hours per shift;
ii)	up to 3 crews working Monday to Saturday, 10 hours a shift not exceeding 40 hours per week;
iii)	employees working in continuous operations may be scheduled to work shifts other than (i) or (ii) above.
- 102 -
3.
Maintenance
i)	shifts of up to 10 hours per day, 40 hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive;
ii)	three shifts per week, not exceeding 12 hours per day.
4.	Other Shifts
It is understood the parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
C. IMPLEMENTATION
Any variation(s) top the Hours of Work Article shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
1.The Company and the Local Union will meet to discuss proposed shift schedules within the terms of the Hours of Work Article. It is anticipated that the Local Union will make sincere attempts to assist the Company wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The parties must mutually agree on resolution of issues such as:
a)	details of shift
b)	details of Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave, and Jury Duty.
c)	Maximum length of shifts for physically demanding work. Accident prevention is a factor to taken into account in determining shift lengths.
d)	The loss of hours/employment as a direct result of the implementation of alternate shift schedules.
e)	The use of employees for supplementary production work.
2.	The Camp or Plant Committee and the crew will be actively consulted by the Parties during the process.
- 103 -
D. GENERAL PRINCIPLES
When an alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of the Collective
Agreement will be administered on the principle that an employee will not lose or
gain any benefits over his normal five-day schedule.
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intention is to increase the use of casual employees in place of regular employees.
2.	Different parts of an operation may be scheduled on different shifts.
3.	The principle of the forty (40) hour week is to be maintained over an averaging period.
4.	This Article shall not change existing alternate shift agreements, unless agreed to by both parties.
5.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other Articles of the Collective Agreement which provide benefits after eight (8) hours are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
7.	An employee's rest days may vary from week to week under an alternate shift schedule. Employees shall not be paid premium pay for changes in their rest days in these circumstances.
8.	An employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shall receive rate and one-half for work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest day results from the application of seniority or has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
9.	There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are changed because of the implementation of an alternate shift schedule.
- 104 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
Weldwood of Canada Limited (Cariboo Division)
(hereinafter known as the "Company") OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
IWA-CANADA Local 1-424
(hereinafter known as the "Union") OF THE SECOND PART
The Company and the Union hereby agree to abide by the following terms and conditions in respect to Leaves of Absence for Stationary Engineers Training.
1. FOURTH CLASS CERTIFICATE
Upon successful completion of the Department of Education Correspondence Course for a FOURTH CLASS STATIONARY STEAM ENGINEERING CERTIFICATE, or possessing equivalent qualifications acceptable to the Vocational School authorities, Powerhouse employees will be granted three (3) weeks leave of absence with pay to attend an approved Vocational School to complete the course and write the examination for the Fourth Class Stationary Steam Engineering Certificate.
During his first week at the School, the employee will be evaluated by the school authorities to determine his knowledge of the subject, and if the evaluation is favourable, he will continue his studies at the school during the following two weeks and write the prescribed examination. In the event that the evaluation is not favourable, the school authorities will indicate to the employee those areas where further study is needed and he will return to the mill and carry out the recommended home studies. Upon completion of this additional studying, the employee will be granted three (3) weeks leave of absence, two (2) weeks with pay and one (1) without, to return to the Vocational School to complete the course, and write the prescribed Fourth Class Certificate examination.
- 105 -
2.
THIRD CLASS CERTIFICATE
Upon successful completion of the Department of Education Correspondence Course for a THIRD CLASS STATIONARY STEAM ENGINEERING CERTIFICATE, or possessing equivalent qualifications acceptable to the Vocational School authorities, Powerhouse employees shall be granted five (5) weeks leave of absence with pay to attend an approved Vocational School to complete the course and write the examination for the Third Class Stationary Steam Engineering Certificate.
During his first week at the school, the employee will be evaluated by the school authorities to determine his knowledge of the subject, and if the evaluation is favourable, he will continue his studies at the school during the following four weeks and write the prescribed examination. In the event that the evaluation is not favourable, the school authorities will indicate to the employee those areas where further study is needed and he will return to the mill and carry out the recommended home studies. Upon completion of this additional studying, the employee will be granted five (5) weeks leave of absence, four (4) weeks with pay and one (1) without, to return to the Vocational School to complete the course and write the prescribed Third Class Certificate examination.
3.	SECOND CLASS CERTIFICATE
Upon successful completion of the Department of Education Correspondence Course for a SECOND CLASS STATIONARY STEAM ENGINEERING CERTIFICATE, or possessing equivalent qualifications acceptable to the Vocational School authorities, Powerhouse employees shall be granted ten (10) weeks leave of absence with pay, on the basis set forth hereunder, to attend an approved Vocational School to complete the two-part course and write the examination for the Second Class Stationary Steam Engineering Certificate:
i)	Five (5) weeks leave of absence with pay to complete Part "A" (Mathematics and Physics)
ii)	Five (5) weeks leave of absence with pay to complete Part "B" (Basic Engineering)
- 106 -
During his first week at the school in each of the above-mentioned cases (i) and (ii) the employee will be evaluated by the school authorities to determine his knowledge of the subject, and if the evaluation is favourable he will continue his studies at the school during the following four (4) weeks and write the examination prescribed for Part "A" or "B", whichever is applicable. In the event that the evaluation is not favourable, the school authorities will indicate to the employee those areas where further study is needed and he will return to the mill and carry out the recommended home studies. Upon completion of this additional studying, the employee will be granted five (5) weeks leave of absence, four (4) weeks with pay and one (1) without, to return to the Vocational School to complete the course and write the examination prescribed for Part "A" or "B", whichever is applicable.
4.	BASIS OF PAY
One (1) week's pay shall be equal to forty (40) hours at the straight time hourly rate of the employee's regular job.
5.	ADDITIONAL LEAVE
Leaves of absence with pay will be granted to Steam Plant personnel on the basis as set forth in 1,2, and 3 above. Any further Vocational Training required to pass each respective certificate shall be at the employee's expense and such additional leave of absence will be granted.
6.	BOOKS
The Company will bear fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the correspondence courses and the textbooks laid down by the Vocational Training School as a requirement for those writing for Stationary Engineering Certificates.
7.	EXAMINATION AND TUITION	FEES
The Company will bear the cost of the prescribed examination and tuition fees, if any, required of candidates writing for Stationary Engineering Certificates.
8.	TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCE
The Company will grant transportation allowance to Steam Plant personnel attending Vocational School on the same basis that transportation allowance is being granted at the time by the Apprenticeship Branch to apprentices attending an approved Vocational School.
Transportation allowance for those attending Vocational School under this agreement will be:
- 107 -
i)	return bus fare from the mill location to the Vocational School or 5.50/kilometre driven from the mill location to the Vocational school if personal vehicle is used.
ii)	an allowance of $60.00 to cover first night hotel expense and meals.
9.	TIMING OF LEAVE
Leaves of absence will be granted at a time suitable to the Company, bearing in mind the Vocational School curriculum.
10.	NUMBER ON LEAVE
Normally, it will not be possible to grant leave of absence to more than one Steam Plant employee at a time. However, if relief is available, this limit may, at the discretion of the Company, be exceeded.
11.	GOVERNMENT ALLOWANCES
If at any time provision is made whereby transportation and/or other allowances are granted by the Government to Steam Plant personnel attending an approved Vocational School to write for Stationary Engineering certificates, the provisions set forth above will then be amended to take into account such Government allowances.
12.	LEVEL OF CERTIFICATES
It is agreed that there shall be no liability on the part of the Company to train an employee beyond the highest hourly paid certificate required in the plant.
DATED THIS 9th day of January____________________________, 19 81_____.
FOR: IWA-CANADA	FOR: WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Local 1-424	(Cariboo Division)
(SIGNED)
(SIGNED)
- 108 -
SUPPLEMENT NO. 9
November 4, 1994
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING New and Evolving Work
Preamble
Weldwood of Canada Limited and IWA-Canada agree to a process which seeks to balance the economic concerns of the member companies with the needs of their employees to have access to New and Evolving Work within the Northern Interior Forest Industry.
This process is intended to deal with:
1.	employment for regular company employees who are displaced by reductions in Annual Allowable Cuts or other land use decisions
2.	additional opportunities for bargaining unit employment in new work that may be created in the forest industry
3.	replacement bargaining unit employment in new or evolved work which may develop in future
Process
1.	This Letter established a process for the Company and the Local Union to discuss opportunities for having company employees perform new and evolving work within the forest industry in:
■	Value Added
■	Re-manufacturing
■	Opportunities created through B.C.	Forest
Renewal funding.
2.	Companies and Local Unions are committed to working together towards making new work opportunities available to company employees. It is understood to accomplish these goals the parties must achieve:
■	efficiency and cost effectiveness on a fair and reasonable basis
■	quality objectives
■	safety objectives
- 109 -
- 2 -
../2
3.	The parties recognize that they cannot reasonably anticipate all circumstances and situations which may arise so cannot prescribe comprehensive solutions in advance.
4.	The parties agree that early joint preparation is an important contributor to the successful implementation and administration of the New and Evolving Work Letter. To this end, the respective negotiating committees will be jointly available to clarify this agreement, and to assist parties on a case by case basis.
5.	Issues must be resolved in a timely fashion.
6.	This Letter will expire on June 30, 2000 unless specifically renewed by both parties.
Dispute Resolution Process:
In order to assist member companies and Local Unions in resolving disputes which may
arise as a result of this Letter, Weldwood of Canada Limited and IWA-Canada agree to:
a)	Establish a joint Dispute Resolution Committee comprised of three (3) representatives from management and three (3) representatives from the Union to fact find and assist the company and Local Union in reaching a solution.
b)	Management or the Local Union can request the assistant of the Dispute Resolution Committee.
c)	The Dispute Resolution Committee may utilize the services of facilitators, mediators, or whatever means in order to reach a final recommended solution.
Agreed to on behalf:
I.W.A.-CANADA	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Date:
Date:
- 110 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Task Force
Weldwood of Canada Limited and I.W.A.-Canada have agreed to a Task Force, comprised of three (3) representatives from management and three (3) representatives of the Union, with co-Chairmen from each party. The Task Force will examine the changes and trends in the forest industry.
The terms of reference for the Task Force will be as follows, but may include other matters the parties wish to explore.
1.	To examine the change(s) taking place within the Industry and the impact on Union/Management relations.
2.	To identify any procedure, policy, agreement, work schedules, method, working environment, people utilization, and company practice which contributes to efficient, safe production performance while expanding the current workforce.
3.	To identify what changes are appropriate to improve the overall Industry's ability to harvest and manufacture the timber in a safe, economical manner.
4.	To identify opportunities for employees for employees to learn new skills and to train company employees to operate the equipment and perform the other jobs associated with the evolving jobs within the B.C. Forest Industry.
5.	The Task Force will submit reports with recommendations to the Union and Management Negotiating Committee on a regular basis on measures that will address the changes needed within the Forest Industry.
6.	This Letter will expire on June 30, 2000, unless specifically renewed by both parties.
Agreed to on behalf:
I.W.A.-CANADA	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Date:
Date:
- 111 -
November 4, 1994
Weldwood of Canada Limited P.O. Box 2179 Vancouver, BC V6B 3V8
Attention: Gordon Gray Dear Sir:
Re: Agreement on New and Evolving Work
This letter is intended to clarify IWA-Canada's intent with regard to the terms and conditions of the Letter of Understanding in 1994 negotiations on New and Evolving Work.
During discussions on this, the Industry raised concerns that we answer as follows:
1.	It is not the intention of IWA-Canada to use this agreement to replace existing logging contractors with IWA members or crews.
2.	It is IWA-Canada's desire to have opportunities to discuss with employers the possibility of either using IWA company crews, or IWA contractors, to perform work under Forest Renewal, but it is not our intent to cause companies to purchase equipment without having the costs of such equipment considered as part of the efficiency and cost effectiveness that the IWA agrees to address under the New and Evolving Work agreement.
3.	It is IWA-Canada's intention that discussions concerning new operations under the agreement may lead to voluntary recognition and certification - it is not our intention to achieve certification first and enter into discussion later unless certification occurs as a direct result of an IWA organizing drive.
As stated earlier, this letter is to clarify our intentions concerning our agreement. It is not intended to form part of the agreement, as is not arbitrable by either party.
Sincerely,
Harvey Arcand 4th Vice President IWA-Canada
HA/jg
- 112 -
Appendix No. 10A
Letter of Understanding Regarding Seniority Due to Capital Projects
1. ) The Logyard and Merchandising employees will be part of the “Open Division” with
their own Plant Committee.
2. )	Future job openings in the “Open Division” will be bid first in the “Open Division”
and second in the “Plywood” and “Lumber” Division. The intention is that after bidding jobs in the “Open Division”, the job would then be bid in the other two Divisions and awarded based on Company Seniority.
3. ) Scheduled absences in the “Open Division” will be filled by the “Plywood” Division
employees. Unscheduled short-term absences will be filled from the “Lumber” labour pool.
4. ) Entry level positions (prior to hiring from the street) for both sites will be bid at both
sites.
•	Production and maintenance positions will be bid first at the site where they occur; secondly on the other site and thirdly hired from the street.
•	Positions posted at a different site will be awarded by Company seniority (Cariboo Division hire date).
•	An employee bidding from one site to another will have 30 calendar days to decide to stay at the new site and successfully complete a training period. If the employee chooses or does not successfully complete the training period, they return to their previous job with their seniority intact.
•	Employees keep their Company seniority (hire date) for vacation and service award purposes.
•	For layoff purposes within a Division, an employee uses their Cariboo Division hire date seniority to work and their divisional seniority to determine what work they do.
•	For layoff purposes within the “Open Division”, the employees bump back to their roots (Division of Origin).
5.	) Conflicting sections of the collective agreement will be revised to reflect the intent
of these changes.
6.	) Unanticipated situations which might require clarification will be discussed with
Local Union and Plant Committees. If no resolve, the grievance procedure will apply.
Signed this 11th day of August 1997
For the I.W.A. - Canada
For the Company