SOURCE	Od-	
EFF.	B0b7	o(
TERM.		3o
No. 0/ vtM£LQY»S "nQMSRI 3 bVMfE0;af£Si
3*
Between
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (Cariboo Division) and
IWA - CANADA LOCAL 1-424
JULY 1, 1988 - JUNE 30, 1991
01000 (03)
INDEX
PAGE	ARTICLE
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
ARBITRATION AND INTERPRETATION
BARGAINING AGENCY
CALL TIME
COMMITTEE
CONTRACTING OCJT
DEFINITION
DURATION OF AGREEMENT EVALUATION GENERAL PROVISIONS GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE BOORS OF WORK LEAVE OF ABSENCE LONG TEFM DISABILITY MANAGEMENT
MEDICAL AND HEALTH AND WELFARE
PAY DAYS
PENSION PLAN
RIGHT OF REFERENCE
SAFETY AND HEALTH
SAFETY EQUIPMENT
SENIORITY
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE TOOL INSURANCE
TRAVEL TIME - RIVERMAN, BOATMAN, UNION SECURITY VACATIONS WITH PAY WAGES
40
33 1
31
7 47
CTp'*
43
35
32
8 19 40
2
36
34 40 32
27
45 14
28
44
46
i SCALERS 44 2
22
5
XXII
XVI
I
XIII VI XXIX II XXX XXIII XVIII XIV VI I IX XX III XIX XVII XXI XV XI XXVI VIII XII XXV XXVII XXIV IV X V
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
BIDDING PROCEDURE
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING
EVALUATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD
FIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENTS - ALL DIVISIONS
NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD
OFFICE WAGE SUPPLEMENT
PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
WAGE SCALE - LOGGING DIVISION
-	PLANER DIVISION
-	SAWMILL DIVISION
94
62
76
49
69
86
56
53 58 64 73 58 S5
54
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered Into as of the 1st day c£ July, 1988.
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED,
(CARI SCO DIVISION)
(hereinafter called the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART,
AW):	IWA - CANADA
LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
(hereinafter called the 'onion")
OF THE SECOND PART.
1.	WHEREAS it Is the intent and purpose cf the Parties here to that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationships between the employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditione of employment to be Observed between the Parties hereto;
2.	AMD WHEREAS the Company accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the employees;
3.	AMD WHEREAS the Union accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Company:
NOW THBtEFORE* the Parties hereto mutually agree as follows ARTICLE I - BARGAINING AGENCY Section 1:
The Company shall recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining representatives on behalf of its employees properly and duly certified under the appropriate regulations in effect from time to time.
Section 2
The bargaining authority of the Union shall not be impaired during the term of this Agreement. The only certification that the Company will recognize during the term of this Agreement is that of the Union unless ordered by due process of law to recognize some other bargaining authority.
Section 3:
The Company and the Union shall meet at such tine and place as nay be nutually agreed upon for the purpose of discussing wages and working conditions and adjusting any matters within the confines of the Agreement which come within the scope of Collective Bargaining between the employee and the Company.
ARTICLE II - DEFINITION
The term “Employee- as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Conpany on whose behalf the IWA - CANADA, Local 1-424 have been certified as bargaining agents, except and excluding foremen and others having authority to hire and fire, supervisory officials and salesmen.
ARTICLE III ~ MANAGEMENT
Section 1:	'
The management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the employees are vested exclusively in the Management; provided however, that this shall not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
Section 2:
The Conpany shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
ARTICLE IV ~ ONION SECORITY
Section 1;
The Company shall co-operate with the union in obtaining and retaining as members the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end shall present to new employees and to all Supervisors and Foremen the Policy herein expressed.
Section 2
All employees who entered the employment of the Conpany on or after the 1st day of September, I960* and all new employees, shall within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment# whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
Section 3:
Any employee who i s a member in good standing, or is reinstated as a member of the Union shall as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout
the term of this Agreement. Section 4:
3
M y employee who fails to maintain his membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments shall be discharged forthwith after seven (7) days written notice to the Company of the said employee's refusal to maintain his membership.
Section 5;
a)	No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the IWA - CANADA Constitution
- as revised 1979, and in accordance with the By-Laws of Local 1-424 as of the 1st day of April, 1981.
b)	My employee who applies to join the Union pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Onion, shall not be subject to discharge from employment.
section 6:
The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union, said forms to be forwarded to the Union not later than fifteen (IS) calendar days following the date of hiring. ■Hie forms shall be substantially as follows:
IWA - CANADA CHECK-OFF
Please Print	Starting Date...........19
Name of Employer"
name of Employee Add ces s________
Postal Code________ Phone_
Operation_______________ Social Insurance no.
Are you a Member of the IWA?___________________
In what IWA operation were you last employed?.
4
Local Union________________
I HEREBY AUTHORIZE AND INSTRUCT YOU IT1 DEDUCT FROM MY WAGES AND
REMIT TO LOCAL 1-___________________ THE FOLLOWING IN PAYMENT OF
THE AMOUNT SET OUT BELOW:
1.	Union Initiation Fees in the amount of $___________________.
2.	Union Back Dues in the amount of S	___________
3.	Union Dues $	per month, commencing	19__
4.	Union Assessments m the amount and at the time stated m notice received by you fro* the Local Union designated
above.
Clock No. _____________________
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
I hereby request and accept membership in the IWA - CANADA, local
Nd. 1-__________, and agree to abide by the constitution and bylaws
of the organization. In case of misstatement of qualifications for membership I agree to forfeit all rights, privileges and monies paid.
Signature of Applicant-Employee
This assignment shall be cone effective immediately in the case, of employees already members of the Union, and shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution in the case
cf employees not previously members of the Union. Oiitil the said assignment is revoked by the employee, the Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment to the Local Onion named therein not less often than once each month together with a written statement of names cf the employees for whom the deductions were made and the aajunt of each deduction.
Section 7:
%
\
The Company shall furnish the Union once every month with a list setting out the names of employees absent for fourteen (14) days co: longer due to illness car injury.
Section fc
The company shall furnish the Union with the Social Insurance Number of each employee on its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded to the Union after the execution of this agreement or after the employee enters the employment of the Company, whichever date last occurs.
5
ARTICLE V ~ WAGES Section 1:
a)	The Parties agree that effective the fifteenth day of June, 1988 the wages of all hourly employees will be increased by eighty-five cents (85 cents).
b)	The Parties agree that effective the fifteenth day of June, 1989, the wages of all hourly employees will be increased by five-and-one-half percent <5-1/2%).
The Parties further agree that effective the fifteenth day of June 1990, the wages of all hourly employees will be increased by five-and-one-half percent (5-1/2%).
The Parties agree that the minimum rate in the mill for common labour shall be:
i)	$	15.335 per hour effective June 15th, 1988.
ii)	$ 16.16 per hour effective June 15th. 1989.	.
ii)	$ 17.07 per hour effective June 15th, 1990.	/
For Quesnel office employees the minimum hourly wage increases are:
effective June 15th, 1988, eighty-five rents (85 cents) per hour.
effective June 15, 1989, eighty-four rents (84 cents) per hour.
effective June 15, 1990, eighty-nine cents (89 cents) per hour.
b)	Employees vtfio have left the employ of the Company must apply within thirty (30) days of ratification to be eligible for retroactive pay flowing from this Agreement.
c)
*il	x	kde	tila	e t	Tradesmen and
Oi)	:a	rir	men,	nd	prayers, Panel
ors	Cost	of	providing this
the	Company	When coverall
reral st it arent cej a) rayer a: I C i le 1 ei •vice to le I arm b rvice is r«que ted ay *e employees t e service must be used Failure to « sai coveralls af :er they have been >vide will result in permanent loss of this privilege.
Section 2 Welders
a)	Effective July 1st, 1981, the following shall be the classification of welders in nanufacturing conditional on the welders being qualified as required under the
6
Standard Forest Industry Welding Specifications and either having	coirpleted the three (3) year
apprenticeship program or having worked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours as a welder.
Group I - Welder (FI - 101, FI - 102)
Group 2 - Welder (FI - 103, DPMI, DPW2)
Group 3 -Welder (Uncertified)
b)	Employees employed as welders and who are required by the employer to renew their welding qualifications shall be granted up to five (5) days paid leave of absence to attend school for Instruction. The Company shall pay the cost c£ instruction and examination.
Section 3 First Aid Attendants
i)	The Company will pay the cost of training and re-training for Industrial First Aid Certificates including lost time wages to designated duty First Aid Attendants.
ii)	Designated First Aid Attendants shall receive their job rate of pay plus the Ticket Premium rate.
iii)	All other employees holding valid First Aid Tickets shall receive a premium c£ five cents (5 cents) per hour: over and above their job rate. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
Section 4: Graders - Sawmill Planer
i) Grading tickets Shall be permanent and valid Certificates.
ii) All Graders holding grading tickets shall attend upgrading classes as required.
iii)	Graders who are required to attend upgrading classes (rule changes) shall receive their reoular straight time job rate for time spent in-attending said classes.	.
iv)	Effective September 1st. 1975 all Certified Lumber Graders shall receive a premium of fifteen Cents (15 cents) per hour for a Grading Certificate provided that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as Lumber Graders.
Section 5
For convenience of reference only a Wage Scale is published in Schedule Ho. 1 and shall be effective, subject to correction any errors or missions, as of July 1, 1988 and may, subject to the
7
consent Of both Parties. be revised once annually. Section 6:
a)	In the event that job conditions change due to the installation of new machinery or revision of work Practices or new classifications, the Parties shall meet after the new machinery is operating properly or the new work practices have proven practical, to determine the designation and wage rate to be paid to the employee(s) affected.
b)	In the event that job conditions change in the Plywood Section as set forth in (a) above, wage rates shall be determined as set out in the wage evaluation manual.
c)	In the event that job conditions change in the Sawmill or Planer Mill Section as set forth in (a) above, wage rates shall be determined as set out in the sawmill Rate Deteraination Program.
Section 7: Shift Differential
The first shift is the recognized day shift. Hours worked outside the recognized day shift shall be regarded as the second and third shifts. A shift differential of thirty-one cents (31 cents) per hour shall be paid for second and third shifts. A day shift eirployee working in excess of his regular shift shall be paid rate and one-half without the differential. Any employee on the second and third shift working in excess of his regular shift shall receive rate and one-half. For the purpose of the last sentence, rate shall be rate plus thirty-one cents (31 cents) . Persons eaployed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one (31 cents) shift differential for all hours worked outside the recognized day shift.
ARTICLE VI - COKHITTEE	t-r"'
Section 1
For the purpose of this Agreement, and in Schedule 2 on bidding Procedure when the word “Committee* is used, it shall mean Shop, Carrp. car Kill Committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
Section 2
The Coamittee shall consist of not less than four (4) and not more than seven (7) eirployees who are meitbers of the Union. and whenever possible, they shall be selected on a departmental basis.
Section 3:
The Union shall, within sixty (60) days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the meirtoers on the Comnittee. The Union or Committee shall inform the Coirpany in writing when any member change takes place on the Committee. No mentoer of the Comnittee shall be recognized.by the Company unless the above procedure is carried out.
Section 4:
The provisions of Section 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply in reference to:
a)	Article XI:	Safety Committee, where the meirtoers are
designated according to the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act, and;
b)	Under Article XV - Joint Committee.
ARTICLE VII ~ BOORS OP WORK
Section 1:	Production and Maintenance Employees
a) The regular hours of work shall be:
Eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, with rate an one-half for any hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any one day and forty (40) in any one week. All production employees shall be paid rate and for Saturday and/or Sunday regardless of the"number oF hours worked during the week except that:	^
Double straight following:
time rates shall
i)	Hours, worked in excess of 11 hours per day.
ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked flee shifts during the preceding six days.
iii)	For purpose of (b) herein a Statutoiy^ Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
iv)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
9
Section 2:	Office Employees
a)	The regular hours of work for office employees shall be:
Seven (7) hours per day and thirty-five (35)hours per week, with rate and one-half for any hours worked in excess of seven (7) in any one day and thirty-five (35) in any one week;
except for the position of Draftsman, which will be seven and one-half (7 1/21 hours per day and thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/21 hours per week, with rate and one-half for any hours worked in excess of seven and one-half (7 1/2) ui any one day and thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/2) in any one week;
also except for the positions of Storekeeper, Assistant Storekeeper and Purchasing Clerk, which will be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per reek, with rate and one-half for any hours worked in excess of eight <*> in any one day and forty (40) in any ow reek.
b)	N I office employees shall be paid rate and one-half for Saturday and/or Sunday regardless of the number of hours worked during the week, except that;
Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
i) Hours worked in excess of 11 hours per day.
ii) Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five shifts during the preceding six days.
iii) For purposes of (ii) herein.	a Statutory
Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
iv) Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
Section 3:	Casual Work
a)	The ter* "Casual ftfork. as used in this Agreement shall apply only to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-off regular employees oar other persons hereinafter referred to as "Casual toployees".
b)	Casual work on production shall be paid for at one and one-half times job rate.
c)	Casual work on maintenance. repair and preparatory work shall be paid for at straight-time job rate.
10
4) Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as casual employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said casual errployees.
e)	Weekend cleanup work performed by casual errployees, laid-off regular errployees and part-time errployees will be Paid for at straiaht-tioe iob rate except as provided in i f) herein.
f)	A laid-of€ regular production employee shall be considered a production employee during the week he/she is laid off and will be paid rate and one-hall lor any work he/she performs on either Saturday or Sunday except as provided in Section 1 {b) above.
g)	The Company agrees to keep separate seniority lists of casual employees for each division, who have worked at least ten {10} working days, in a division, exclusively for recall purpose and subject to Clause <d) further agrees to recall casual employees in accordance with more seniority as set forth in these lists.
Section 4;
a)	Those employees who of necessity regularly work on Saturday and Sunday shall take two {2) other days of the week off to be mutually agreed between the employees and the Company. In such event, Saturday and Sunday shall be considered working days and overtime rates shall not apply on Saturday. However, these employees shall be paid rate and one-half for work performed on Sunday. Overtime rates shall apply when the regular daily or weekly work limit has been exceeded. Overtime rates shall apply on the rest days of these employees if worked unless a change in rest days has been agreed upon between the employees and the Company.
b)	For the purpose of this Section only, employees shall be Engineers, Firemen, Operating Millwrights, Maintenance Workers and Watchmen.
Section S:
a) Maintenance, repair and construction employees can be employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work week for which they Shall be paid straight time for Saturday work. In such event, Sunday and Monday shall be recognized as their rest days and any work performed on their rest days shall be paid for at rate and one-half. The rest day, Monday, may be changed by mutual consent between the employee and the Company. In such event, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight time. If the employee works on Monday at the request of the Company, the rate of pay will be rate and one-half. However, if
11
the employee requests a temporary change from his rest day on Monday, work performed on Monday shall be paid fcr at straight time.
b) If a Statutoiy Holiday occurs on the employee's regular day	he shall be entitled to take his next regular
work day ©fCvithout pay.
Section 6:	Alternate Shift Scheduling
a)	Management. Plant or Camp Committees are the Local Union shall have the right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturing operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour week is maintained over an averaging period. Rate and one-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday.
b)	Any variation(s) to the preceding Sections denoting normal hours of work shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
i) Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and local Management.
ii) Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations.
c)	When alternative shift schedules have been implemented in accordance with (a) and (b) above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A.	Rate and one-half shall be paid for the following:
i) The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the nomal daily hours c£ the established schedule.
ii) Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
iii)	All hours worked on an employee's scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
iv)	AH hours worked on Sunday except those excluded in the casual section.
12
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	All hours worked in excess of A{i) above.
i i) All hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday Is also an employee's scheduled rest day, if the employee has worked forty <40) straight-time hours in the preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
C.	Schedule 7	- Alternate Shift Scheduling,
contains the agreed upon general principles and parameters for the establishment, implementation or discontinuance of alternate shift schedules.
Section h
If three (3) hours or less in the Sawmill Division or Planer Division and/or one (1) hour or less in the Plywood and Legging Division* are necessary after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding a Statutory Holiday to complete a shift which commenced work on Friday afternoon or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday# time worked after pidnight Friday or after midnight preceding the Statutory Holiday to complete the shift shall be paid straight time rater.
Section 13
The wort week shall commence with the starting time of the first shift Monday, and shall end at the completion of the last shift which commences on the following Friday.
Section 9: Three Shift Operation
a)	The Company shall have the right to operate the plant or any part thereof on a three-shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Company's option.
b)	Section (a) above shall only apply to those employees actually working on a three-shift basis.
13
Section ID:
The foregoing provisions of this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeing to any employee any nuirber of hours of work per day or per week.
section 11:
No employee covered by this Agreement who refuses-*? work overtime shall be subject to any penalties whether «re ue&asal be singular
All employees in manufacturing plants shall be entitled to two ten-minute rest periods during each regular shift; provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision.
Section 13:
Where maintenance, repair and construction employees ace required to work two (2) hours or more overtire beyond their normal shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal, such hot meal to be consumed by the employees on Company tile before beginning the overtire work. The hot meal will be made available at the Plywood Plant.
The Company agrees to discontinue the use of time clocks subject
to the following:
a)	The general use c£ clocks be discontinued for a trial period of three (3) months.
b)	New employees are to punch the clock for the first three
(3) months of employment.
c)	Casual employees are to punch the clock.
d)	Employees who report late must punch the clock and have the card initialled by their Foreman.
e)	Employees may make arrangements with employees on the same jobs on their following shift to relieve them a maximum of ten (10) minutes prior to their regular quitting time providing they have permission of both Foreman involved.
f)	Employees may fnter or leave their place of work by the North Eh trance only.
or in concert.
Section 12:
Section 14:
9)
Employees who work overtime must punch the clock.
14
h)	Employees who have been absent and return to work nust report to their department foreman at the commencement of the shift.
i} Employees who abuse the system shall be required to punch the clock far a three month period.
jj Employees abusing the honour system will still be subject to article III* Section 2 c£ the Collective Agreement.
Section 15:
That a Committee be established with I.w.a. Local 1-424 during the term of the 1977-79 Agreement to clarify the provisions of Article VII - Hours of Work.
ARTICLE VIII - SENIORITY
Section It Principle of Seniority
The principle of seniority, competency considered, shall be recognized by the Company and the Union; the application of seniority being determined firstly by Department and, secondly by Plant < sometimes called Company seniority) .
Section 2 Divisions and Department
a)	This Agreement covers all operations of the Cariboo Division of the Company in the Quesnel Area.
b)	The Cariboo Division of the Company shall be organized for seniority purposes as follows:
1- Plywood and logging Division
(a)	Plywood Section:
(i)	Production Department (ii) Maintenance Department
(b)	Logging Section:
(i) Production Department
2.	Sawmill Division
3.	Planernill Division
4.	Office Division
15
section 3:	Departmental and Plant Seniority T.i.st
The Coirpany shall supply to the bargaining agent once every three months the following coirplete seniority list. The seniority lint shall be kept up to date, particularly in the event of a reduction in forces.
1.	Plant (Company or Divisional) Seniority List
(a)	Plywood and Logging Division
(b)	Sawmill Division
(c)	pianermill Division
(d)	Office Division
2.	Departmental Seniority Lists
(a)	Production Department of the Plywood Section
(b)	Maintenance Department of the Plywood Section
(c)	Production Department of the Logging Section
(d)	Sawmill Division
(e)	Planermd.ll Division
(f)	Office Division
Section 4:	Promotions or Job Openings
*aV- pr™*',v*-j^Te shall be based on departmental seniority, competency considered. Promotion into designated "Key 7^5^ Jobs, is subject to the provisions of the Job Training L-"" Plan as set out in the Training Programmes.
1(b)
Job openings (except those on base rate and those covered by the Job Training Programmes) shall be posted for a minimumiof twenty-four (24) hours.	" *
Employees interested in having their bid considered although they may be absent at the time cf posting, may leave their "bid" with the Personnel Department and their bid shall be considered in case such opening occurs. A copy of such bid shall be given to the Plant Committee for checking purposes.
Section S? Lay-offs or Reduction of Forces
a)
In the event of a reduction of forces, tbe^j.ast person. hired shall be the first released, subject to the “provisions of Sections 1 and 8 c£ this Article.
Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions the application of seniority as agreed to under Sub-Section 5(a) may be postponed for such periods as may be necessary not exceeding three (3) working days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Committee as soon as possible.
16
c)
d)
The employees retained on the payroll shall have the right to retain their jobs according to their departmental seniority- Employees' with insufficient departmental seniority to retain their jobs shall return to the jobs previously held in the department and in such case replgsm-* anyone holding such jobs with less departmental seniority.	Those employees with
insufficient departmental seniority to remain in the department shall take the jobs opened up by employees who are laid off.
i)	During a reduction of forces where an employee’s seniority is such that he will not be able to keep his regular job he may elect to apply his seniority to a job paying a higher rate if he has previously held the job in the operation on a regular basis.
ii)	During a reduction of forces where an employee’s seniority is such that he will not be able to keep his regular job he may elect whether ar not to apply his seniority to obtain a lower paid job or a job paying the same rate of pay ar accept a layoff until his regular job becomes available, provided however:
(1) If during the layoff period the employee wishes to return to work and so notifies the Company,, he shall be called back to work as soon as his seniority entitles him to a jcb.
(2)	The application of this provision shall not result in an employee/in the exercise of his rights, bumping an employee with less seniority.
Sections Seniority Retention
Seniority during lay-off shall be retained on the following basis:
Employees with less than one (l) year's Service shall retain their seniority for a period of eight (8) months.
Employees with one (1) or more years service Shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one (1) additional month for each year of service up to an additional six (6) month period.
A laid-off employee' s seniority retention as provided for in a) ar b) above will be reinstated in the event of re-employment before the expiry of seniority retention
17
and on the completion ot one day's work
Section 7: Rehiring or Re-establishment of Forces
a)	In case of re-establishment of forces,	"demoted"
employees shall have first claim on their previously held jobs and in such event jobs shall not be posted.
b)	When rehiring after a reduction of forces, employees shall be notified by telegram or registered letter if residing within a 100 mile radius of Quesnel, and they shall be rehired in order of their plant Seniority, provided that they reply to the telegram (or letter) in
| the affirmative within ninety-six (96) hours and appear { not later than seven (7) days from the time the telegram or letter vas sent. However, employees resident in the Province of Alberta or the Yukon Territoiy shall be given one (1} additional day's time for reporting and any employees resident in any other Canadian province or the United States shall receive two (2) additional day’s time for reporting. All employees shall, upon returning to employment within the required number of days of being notified by the Company, retain all seniority rights. It shall be the employee's responsibility to keep the Company informed of their addresses during lay-off.
Section 8:	Probation

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, all employees are hired on probation. The probationaiy period shall continue for thirty (30) working jiays, during which tine such employees are to be considered temporary workers only, and during this same period no seniority rights shall be recognized. Upon completion of thirty (30) working days such employees shall be regarded as regular anployees and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company's employ: provided however, that the probationaiy period of thirty (30) working days shall only be cumulative within the three calendar months following the date of entering employment.
b)	Clause (a) of this section does not apply to employees who move from one operation of a Company to another operation of the same Company within thirty (30) days for those laid off, and within ninety (90) days for those terminated as a result of a permanent closure.
c)	It is agreed that probationaiy employees will have preference over casual employees for any work performed during the nroaml work week, subject to competency.
d)	It is further agreed that in the application of (c) above, probationaiy employees will be called in for work in accordance with their hiring date, unless such call-
in is beyond the control of the employer, and is subject to the employee being competent to perform the work. This obligation does not apply where the employee has worked one shift in the 24 hours period.
Section a Reinstatement
In any case where an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory position and at a later date ceases to be a supervisory worker and the Company desires to retain their services, reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit provided however, that supervisory workers reinstated in the bargaining unit irust return to the job held at the tine of their promotion to a supervisory position.
Section l6 - Absence Without Just Cause
An employee who is absent without leave for a period of more than three (3) consecutive working days, who cannot show just Cause for such absence* shall forfeit all seniority rights. This provision shall not interfere vith^£^ Company's right to discharge for proper cause. ’
Section 11: f Part Time and Tempbrary Employees
a)	WeekendSiOxker^and others not desirous or available for
regular employment shall be regarded as casual employees, and shall not accrue any seniority.
b)	Workers who are hired far temporary employment and signify that they are available and who are in fact available for permanent employment shall be considered as relief workers as soon as they have worked thirty (30) days within the three (3) calendar month period following their date of hiring, they shall accrue seniority from their date of hiring.
Section 12s Interdepartmental and Interplant Bidding
The seniority provisions of this Agreement shall apply separately
to each Division and Department; and there shall be no bidding
between the Logging and Plywood Sections, except:
a)	Employees of the Plywood Section may bid to the position of Second Class Riverman in the Logging Section in accordance with their Company Seniority and in the event an employee obtains a jcto such employee's Logging Department Seniority shall start from the date of his/her successful bid but their Company Seniority shall remain unchanged.
b)	Employees of the ragging Section whose jobs are permanently eliminated oc who wish to transfer permanently to the Plywood Section may bid on jobs xn
19
the Plywood Section in groups l, 2, or 3 in accordance with their Conpany Seniority and in the event an enployee obtains the job his/her Plywood Section Seniority shall start from the date of their successful bid, but their Company seniority shall remain unchanged.
c)	Qnployees of the Sawmill Division, Planemd.ll Division and the Office Division who have been laid off shall, in the event job openings occur in the Plywood Section or Logging Section, be given preferential hiring on the basis of seniority entity '
ARTICLE IX ~ LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1:	Injury or Illness
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injuiy or illness Lor the term of this Agreement, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the Conpany. The enployee shall have a reasonable period of time to present such medical certificate. The enployee shall report or cause to have reported the injuiy or illness which requires his/her absence to the Company as soon as nay be reasonably possible.
Section 2:	Written Permission
Any employee desiring leave of absence must obtain permission in writing from the Conpany for such leave, except in cases of illness car injuiy covered by Section 1 above.
Section 3:	Compassionate Leave
The Company will grant leave of absence up to a maximum of six (6) months without pay to employees for compassionate reasons or for educational or training or extended vacation purposes. conditional on the following terms:
a)	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application.
C) That the Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant, or nay postpone leave for educational or training purposes where a suitable replacement is not available.
d)	That the Company shall be required to notify the Shop Committee c£ its decision in respect of any application €or leave under this Section.
e)	It is agreed that employees requesting leave of absence,
20
for extended vacations during the period June 15th to Sept. 15th. shall only be granted such leave, once every three (3) years, and that a record be kept for the purpose of rotating such leaves.
f)	That eirployees making application for leave of absence for "extended vacations' shall apply at least one (1) month in advance.
g)	All earned vacations most be taken in conjunction with an "extended vacation leave".
h)	The Company will grant a reasonable period of extended maternity leave without pay to female employees where there i s a valid reason.
Section 4:	Bereavement Leave
a]
When death occurs to a member of a regular full-time employee's immediate family, the errployee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence for which he shall be compensated at hi;s regular straight time hourly rate of pay for his regular work schedule for a maximum of three
(3)	days.
Piece workers who are entitled to bereavement leave shall be compensated in accordance with the principle established in Article 3CII, Section 2 (b) of this Agreement.
c)	Members cf the errployee's immediate family are defined a5 the errployee's spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons. daughters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, step-parents.	grandparents,	grandparents-in-law,
grandchildren. step-children,	sons-in-law	and
daughters-in-law.
d)	Compensable hours under the terms of this Section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 5:	Jury Duty
a)
Any regular full - time employee who is required to perform jury duty, coroner's juiy, Croyn witness, or coroner's witness on a day on which they wulfl riocWily have worked will be reimbursed by the Coirpany for the difference between the pay received for jury duty and their regular straight time hourly rate of pay for their regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess Of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay
21
received for jury duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof c£ jury service and jury duty pay received.
b)	Any piece-worker who is required to perform jury duty shall be compensated for the difference between statutory pay received for jury duty and their job rate in accordance with the principle established in Article XII, Section 2(b) of this Agreement.
c)	Hours paid for jury duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 6:	Onion Business
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees vho are appointed or elected_jj«i«m office for a period up to and including tw6""(Tf"years- Further leave of absence may be granted by mutual consent. The employee v\4io obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after the completion of their term of employment with the Onion.
W
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who ace elected as representatives to attend union meetings 'and Onion conventions, or as members of any nHnKi(it'ni) committee of the International Woodworkers of America, in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Onion.
c)	In order for the Company to replace the employee with a competent substitute, it is agreed that before the employee receives this leave of absence, as set forth in Clauses (a) and (b) above, the Company will be given due notice in writing in the case of (a), twenty (20) calendar days; and in the case of (b), five (5) calendar days.
Section 7:	Public Office
St
l
'A
The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b) Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of such office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served
22
intermittently, shall give the Cospany reasonable notice Cor absences from work for conducting Municipal business.
c)	The employee who obtains this leave cf absence shall return to his/her Cospany within thirty (30) calendar days after coupletion c£ public office.
ARTICLE X - VACATIONS WITH PAY
with respect to annual vacations and vacation pay the following
The annual vacation for employees with two (2) to seven years service covered by this Agreement shall be three (3) vreeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon seven percent (7%) of the total wages ca: salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, car one hundred and twenty (120) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular jcb. whichever is greater.
b)	The addition81 one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutivewitb the vacation period provided for in Section 1 herein.
Section 3 Seven to Fifteen Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with seven (7) to fifteen (IS) years service covered by this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon nine percent (9%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, car one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular jcb. whichever is greater.
b)	The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section nay be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1 and 2 herein.
23
Section 4:	Fifteen to Twenty-Four Years Service
a) The annual vacation for employees with fifteen (15) to twenty-four (24) years service covered by this Agreement , r- shall be five weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon eleven percent (11%) of the total wages car salaiy ' earned by the enployee during the period of entitlement, car two hundred ( 200) hours at the hourly rate of the employee*s regular job, whichever is greater.
b) Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1, 2 and 3.
Section 5 Twenty-Four to Thirty Years Service
IX
a) The annual vacation for errployees with twenty-four (24) to thirty (30) years service covered by this Agreement shall be six (6) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon thirteen percent (13%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of ’ entitlement, ar two hundred and forty (240) hours at the hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greater.
b) Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section nay be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections l, 2, 3, and 4.
Section 6:	Thirty Years Service
a)
The annual vacation for employees with thirty (30) years service covered by this Agreement shall be seven (7) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon fifteen percent (15%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement or two hundred and eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greater.
b) Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section nay be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5.
Section 7:	Vacation Pay on Termination
An enployee whose employment is terminated shall receive vacation pay at the appropriate percentage of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement in accordance with the employee’s years of service.
section 8;
24
a)	Vacations for employees shall be taken at such time as mutually agreed upon by the Shop Committee and the Company when quantity and regularity of Production shall not be impaired.
b> All earned vacations must be taken.
Section 9:
a)
b)
The calculation and comparison of the vacation pay amounts developed by the percentage Of gross wages method and the hours times the regular job rate method will be completed and the greater amount paid to the employee within fourteen (14) days of the common vacation pay cut-off date Or the employee's anniversary date. The Company’s present cut-off or anniversary date method shall be continued unless a change is agreed upon between the Company and the Local union.
For the purposes of this Article. the rate of the employee's regular jcbwill be the rate of the employee's regular job at the date of the common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date, as the case may
be.
In the case of ^pieceworker, the rate of the employee's regular job Vill be determined by computing the employee's hourly*average earnings for the days actually worked during the pay period immediately preceding the common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date, as the case may be.
d) On the date when an employee completes one CU- two (2). seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24), or thirty (30) years of service and where there is a common cut-off date for all employees in the operation, the employee will receives
i)	In the Case of one (1) year, one percent (It) of his gross earnings between the date of employment and the date of the last common cut-off date;
ii) In the case of two (2). seven (7). fifteen (15), twenty-four (24), car thirty (30) years, two per cent (2t) of his gross earnings between the date of his last anniversary date and the date of the last common cut-off date.
25
section 10:	Vacation Pay - Percentage of Wages Method
The following shall be considered as days actually worked Cor
determining vacations with pay for an eirployee after one (1)
continuous year oC enployment.
a)	Absence on Worker's Compensation up to a period of one (1) year, provided that the eirployee returns to his employment.
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1) year, provided that the employee returns to his employment.
The employer shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 4.
d)	Absence due to tine served on Jury Duty, including Coroner’s jury, or time served as a Crown witness or Coroner's witness in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 5.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the enployer in writing shall be credited towards entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 11:	Qualifications for Vacation Pay
- Regular Job Rate Method
In order for an employee to qualify for the amount generated by the hours times the regular job rate method, the employee nust have worked a minimum of fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in the employee's first year of service and a minimum of one thousand (1,000) hours during the employee * s succeeding years c£ entitlement.
Where there is a common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating mLninum hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeeding year.
Where there is no common vacation pay cut-Off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee's anniversary date in one year to his anniversary date in the succeeding year.
a)	i)
ii)
iii)
26
b)	For purposes of confuting the requisite hours the following will be included:
i)	All hours worked;
ii)	Statutory Holiday hours;
iii)	Jury and Crown Witness duty:
iv)	Bereavement leave;
v)	vacation hours;
vi)	Time not exceeding (1) year, lost as the result OF an accident recognized as compensable by the Workers* Compensation Board and suffered during the course of employment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee returns to his enployment.
vii)	Time not exceeding one (1)year. lost as the result of a non-occupational accident or illness, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that at the time of the accident or illness the employee has been on the payroll for not less than one (1) year and that he returns to his employment. It is understood that the employer may require that the employee provide a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
viii)	Time lose as a result of lay-off shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for requisite hours.
ix)	Employees who report for work and who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any such shift for purposes of computing requisite hours under this Section. Any employee who qualifies for call time ±n a day shall receive credit under this Section far eight (8) hours or credit for the hours for which wages were paid, whichever is greater.
x)	All hours worked in more than one {1) division of the parent company as a result of transfer or layoff.
section 12:	Employment Standards Act
Part 4 - Annual Vacation of the Enployment Standards Act, S.B.C., 1980, c.10 and amendments thereto, except where varied or modified by the provisions herein, shall become a part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X I
27
- SAFETY AMD HEALTH
Section :b
The Corrpany and employees shall co-operate to assure safe working conditions and methods and to devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon shall be provided by the Company.
Section 2
The management of every operation shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee {hereinafter called "Safety Committee") of four (4) to twelve (12) members according to the—9*ze of the operation. Members of the Safety Committee shall be designated in equal numbers by the employees and the Company. Employee representatives shall be regular employees in the operation with at least one (1) year's experience.
Section 3:
When inspections and Safety Committee meetings are held in the same week and the total time spent by any employee exceeds the two hours provided for, employees are to be compensated at straight time > / rates for all time spent on inspections ancT~Sa£et'y''’‘C6omittee//~)X3 meetings outside of normal workin^Kours-T'	—----.. ...
Employees who attend Safety Committee meetings or accident investigations during working hours shall not suffer ^gny_ loss of pay Plant inspections for safety will be done outside ~o£"“'ttae<^“ errployee's normal working hours unless otherwise agreed.	-t
Safety Committee members shall be notified at least one week advance of the time and place of safety meetings. The Company shall make the necessary arrangements so that Safety Committee • members working at the tine of the meeting can attend.
Section 4:
Any one or all employees working in the immediate proximity when a fatal accident Has occurred may, without discrimination, refrain form working the balance of the shift.
Section 5;
Two First Aid Attendants will be in attendance in the Plywood Plant if available on all regular shifts.
Section 6;
Suitable emergency transportation will be provided for the Corrpany's operations in the Quesnel area.
2a
Section 7
Effective July 1, 1989, an IWA-Forest Industry Safety and Health
Reseach Programbe established on the following general principles:
a)	The Plan will be jointly trusteed.
b)	The Plan is to be funded on the basis of an Industry contribution of one-half cent (1/2 cent) per hour per employee per hour worked, effective July 1, 1989,
c)	The trustees will be appointed in the first yeat of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish objectives and operating and adninistative procedures.
ARTICLE XII - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Section It

All emp^m^ees who wdirk on New dear’s Day, Good Friday^ B.C. Day, Victoria Day, ^Canada Day, Labour ^0ay, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas^ Day and Boxing-Day shall be paid rate and one-haIf for all hours so worked.
b)	In the event one of the above statutory holidays falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the statutory holiday.
c)	In the event of a statutory holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, and when the company and the Shop Committee mutually agree. the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respec tively.
d)
e)
In the event one of the statutory holidays falls cn a Sunday or Monday, the employee's regular day off, the employee shall be entitled to take his/her next regular day aEf. This will apply only to those regularly employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work schedule.
In the event one of the statutory holidays falls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday* or the succeeding Monday, or as agreed upon between the coapany and the Shop Committee.
&
{o
f)	When a statutory holiday falls on a Friday, eirployees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, by initual agreement between the Coapany and the Plant Committee, may work on the Friday Statutory Holiday at the straight time job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday.
Section 2:
29
a)	Any hourly rated or piece-work employee who qualifies
for the following holidays, that is:	Hew Year's Day,
Good Friday, Victoria Day. Canada Day. B. C. Day, Labour Day. Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day, under the conditions set out below, shall be paid for the holiday their regular job rate of pay for their regular work schedule. The hours so paid for the statutory Holiday shall not be included in the weekly work schedule.
b)	The holiday rate of piece-work employees shall be established by computing their daily average earnings for days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) days.
c)	An employee working on a paid holiday shall be paid, in addition to his/her holiday pay, a rate and one-half far any hours worked on a shift designated as a "Holiday Shift".
d)	An employee, to qualify for holiday pay, must have been on the payroll thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday, and must have worked his/her last regularly scheduled work day before, and his/her first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his/her absence was due to a compensable occupational injuiy or illness, which occurred within six (6) months preceding the holiday, or such employee was on authorized leave of absence. In the case of illness or injuiy the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner. Notwithstanding the other requirements of this Section, an employee M y only qualify for Statutoiy holiday pay if he/she works one (1) day before and one (1) day after the holiday providing the said two (2) days fall within a sixty (60) calendar day period. Employees while on leave of absence under Article IX Section 6 (a) or any employee while a member of a negotiating committee under Section 6 (b) shall not qualify for paid statutoiy holidays.
e)	Employees as defined under Article VIII, Section 11 shall not receive pay for Statutoiy Holidays.
Section 3; Personal Floating Holidays
This Section becomes effective September 1, 1978. This Personal
Floating Holiday is in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day but this
Section shall come,into operation on its effective date even If
Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed.
a)
Personal Floating Holiday
30
Regular full tine employees will be granted one Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of the Agreement, to be arranged at a tine suitable to the employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production.
b)	Qualifying Conditions
When the Personal Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his regular ]cb rate c£ pay for his regular work schedule, subject to the following conditions:
i) A new employee must have been on the payroll for not less thanninety (90) consecutive calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday.
ii) An employee will not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for more than nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case cf sickness or injury.
iii)	An employee shall apply on an approved form, at least seven (7) days in advance, for his Personal Floating Holiday. The employee shall receive notice of the disposition cf his/her request a minimum of 72 hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday.
iv) If an employee is required to work on his Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date has been designated for such holiday, the employee shall be paid overtime for such work at the rate of time and one-half. The employee will then be entitled to take the holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon.
v)	Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 15 of each contract year will be scheduled by Management.
vi)	A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on an employee's regular rest day.
vii)	Where an employee chooses Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday straight time rates will apply.
31
ARTICLE XIH - CALL TIKE Section l
Any enployee reporting for work on the call of the Company shall be paid his/her" regular rate of pay for the entire period spent at the place of work in response to the call with a minimum of, in any one day:
a)
Two hours pay at the enployee's regular rate except when the enployee's condition is such that he is not competent to perform his duties or he has failed to conply with the accident prevention regulations of the Worker’s Compensation Board; or
If the enployee commences work, four {4) hours pay at his regular rate, except where his work is suspended because of inclement weather or reasons completely beyond the control of the Conpany.
Section 2;
Notice cancelling the work call for any Division of the Conpany
shall be sufficient if given in the following nanner:
a)	First Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given the previous evening at 10:00 p.m. and at 10:30 p.m. or not later than one and one-half hours before the shift comnences , by means of two broadcasts within a half hour period.
b)	Second Shift - Notice cancelling the call Cor work shall be given between 12:00 noon and 1:00 p.m., but not later than three hours before the shift commences, by means of two broadcasts within a half hour period.
c)	Third Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given between 5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., but not later than three hours before the shift commences.
All broadcasts shall be over Station CKCQ.
ARTICLE XIV ~ GRIEVANCE PRQCEDORE
When a grievance arises in the plant, under the terms of this
Agreement it shall be dealt with in the following manner:
a) The individual employee and the Job Steward shall first take up the matter with the .foreman in charge of the work, within fifteen (15) days.
32
b)	If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled in this way. the same individual enployee. with the Committee, shall take up the problem with the foreman.
c)	If a satisfactoiy settlement is not then reached, it shall be reduced to writing by both Parties when the Committee shall take up the grievance with the Plant Superintendent. X£ desired, the Union Business Agent shall accompany the Committee, and either party shall have the right to request the presence of the enployee involved.
d)	If the grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Union and Management.
e)	If a satisfactoiy settlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
f)	If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage, under
b),	c), d), or e), within fourteen (14) days after
completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. Where the Union is not able to observe this tine limit by reason o£ the absence of the aggrieved employee or the Committee from the operation, the set time limit shall not apply. The Union shall be bound to proceed in such a case as quickly as may be reasonably possible.
ARTICLE XV ~ RIGHT OF REFERESCE
Section Is
If the Company and the Onion fail to agree upon an interpretation of the Agreement either party shall have the right to refer the matter to the Joint Industry Committee (hereinafter called "Joint Committee”) and if either party does make such reference, the other party must accept the reference.
Section 2:
The Joint Committee shall consist of three <3) representatives selected by the IWA - CANADA, Negotiating committee and three (3)
representatives selected by the Company.
Section 3:
Where an interpretation of the Agreement has been referred to the Joint Committee, this reference shall be fear the period of forty-eight (48) hours ac longer by mutual consent of the parties to this Agreement. In case the Joint Committee agrees upon a recoirmendation of interpretation, this shall be furnished in writing to the Union and to the Company.
Section I:
33
In the event the Joint Committee members disagree all the facts in the case as found by the Union and the Union members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submitted to the Company and to the Union members involved. The facts in the case as found by the Company and the Company members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing and given to the Union member employees for their information.
Section S:
If a satisfactory interpretation on the point in question is not reached, either party may refer the question to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE XVI ~ ARBITRATION AMD IHTERPRETATIQH
Section 1:	Interpretation
a)	In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation of this Agreement which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by interpretation in the following manner:
Either party may notify the other party, in writing, by registered mail, of the question cr questions to be interpreted. After receiving such notice and statement, each of the parties rill then refer the matter to the Interpreter named in this Section.
/
b)	The decision of the Interpreter will be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
c)	It is agreed that____________________________ , shall be
the Interpreter for the purpose of this Section.
d)	In the event said Interpreter is unable to deal with any natter under this Section, the Parties will meet and mutually agree upon a temporary replacement.
Section 2; Arbitration
a) In the case of any dispute arising under this Agreement which the Parties are unable to settle between themselves, thematter shall be determined by arbitration in the following manner:
Either party may notify the other party in writing, by registered mail, of the question ctr questions to be arbitrated. Each of the parties shall, within five (5) days, refer the matter to the chosen Arbitrator.
b)	The decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
c)	It any Arbitrator finds that an eirployee has been unjustly suspended <x discharged, that employee shall be reinstated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights and privileges preserved under the term of this Agreement, provided always that if it is shown to the Arbitrator that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period, between discharge (or suspension! and reinstatement, or date of failure to rehir.e and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages payable by this Company pursuant to. this Section.
d)	The parties agree with the principle of One-Man Arbitration. The Arbitrator will be chosen on a rotation basis from a group of Arbitrators which will be selected by the parties.
Xn the event either party is d ssatisfied with the permanent choice of an Arbitrator, the parties agree that other choices of Arbitrators will be considered by both Parties.
Section 3:
The Company and the Union shall bear in equal proportions the expenses and allowances of the Arbitrator and stenographic and secretarial expense and rent.
Section 4:
Any arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held at the City of Quesnel or such other place as may be decided.
Section S: Expedited Arbitration
A Committee shall be established to develop and naplement a system of expedited arbitration of grievances. The chairman of this Committee mill be B. Allan Hope, Q.C. The committee shall report to the parties not later than Deceitber 31, 1984.
ARTICLE Xini - PAY DAYS
The Company shall provide for pay days every second Wednesday. The enployees will be paid during their regular working hours, and each eirployee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
35
ARTICLE XVIII - GENERAL PROVISIONS Section 1;
Official Union representatives shall obtain access to the Company’s operation for the purpose of this Agreement by written permission which will be granted by the Company on request and subject to such reasonable terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
Section 2;
The rate of Board and Lodging shall be §2.35 per day.
Section 3: No strike Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Union shall not cause, promote, sanction or authorize any strike, sit-down, slow-down, sympathetic strike or any other interference with work by the employees for any cause whatsoever until all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Company.
Section 4:	No Lockout Pending Grievance and Arbitration
Procedure
The Company shall not create or institute any lockout of the employees with respect to any dispute between the Company and the Union, or the Company and its employees until all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Union or its employees.
Section 5:
a)
b)
The Union may refuse to handle material produced by a strike bound firm.
The Union shall have the right to respect another Union’s picket line.
Section <5
The Company shall provide plug-ins (for block heaters only) m the parking lot to accommodate all employees, at no cost to the employees.
36
Section 7:
It is agreed that the parties to the Agreement will neet to discuss and implement a Planertoan's Training Program.
section 8:	Permanent Plant Closure
/ rA
jointly
sixty (60) days notice of
a)	Effective July 1st, 1982,
closure will be provided.	i
b)	Effective July 1st, 1982, errployees terminated by Company because of permanent closure of a manufacturing j plaht s^all be entitled to severance pay equal to one /
:(1) week's pay tor each year of continuous service and 1 l ' \thereafter in increments cf completed months of service.	\
ARTICLE XIX ~ wnr+m.T.	HEALTH AMD WELFARE
Section 1:	Medical Coverage
Medical coverage including Extended Hegjt-h	it
coveT&ye shall be provided by tne Co3paRy’”at no cost to the employee. The Extended Health Benefit coverage shall include hospitalisation coverage up to a maximum of $8.50 per day.
Medical coverage eligibility shall be the first of the month following date of employment.
Participation in the Plan is to be a condition cf employment.
That the appropriate policies for Medical and Dental coverage be amended to provide coverage for dependents over -the age of twenty-one (21) years but not over the age of twenty-five < 25) years, provided that the dependents are attending a recognized educational institution.
e)
V
Effective July 1st, 1982, a Vision Care Program be instituted to provide for payment up to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) consecutive loath period for charges incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription.
Section 2:	Institution
It is agreed that a Health and Welfare Plan be instituted with the principles hereinafter set out.
37
Section 3:	Provincial Board of Trustees
Weldwood of Canada Limited, together with Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations. Northvood Pulp & Timber Ltd., Canadian Forest Products Limited, and the IWA - CANADA agree to establish one bet of trustees for the purpose of developing a cornmon text, a common trust agreement, and a common employee booklet for the sir Health and Welfare Plans, covering Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, and Weekly Indemnity.
The parties agree that a Joint Committee, representing Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Siployee Relations, Canadian Forest Products Limited, Northwood Pulp i Timber Led., Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA - CANADA will be established to study the most effective met hod of administration of the Plans, reporting to the Parties no later than July 1, 1984.
Section 4: Weldwood - i.w.A. Board of Trustees
The Board of Trustees, composed of two (2) members representing IWA - CANADA and two (2) members representing the Company, are responsible for the administration of the I.W.A. - Weldwood Health and Welfare Plan. The Trustees are also responsible Cor the selection of carrier, funding adjudication of compassionate appeals, and Health and Welfare problems directly related to the Plan.
Section 5:	Insurance Coverage
The following coverage will be provided by the Company.
a)
Group Life follows:
Insurance for each qualified employee as
effective June 15, 1988, effective June 15, 1989, effective June 15,
^ t- -
lxlr
b) Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
effective June 15, 1988, $ 35,000.00 effective June 15, 1989, $ 40,000.00 effective June 15, 1990, $ 45,000.00

l
Weekly Indemnity as follows: Effective July 1, 1988, m the amount o£ three hundred and fifty-rsix dollars ($356.00) per week for fifty-two weeks; effective July 1, 1989, in the amount of three hundred and seventy-six (5376.00) per week for fifty-two weeks; effective July 1, 1990, in the amount of three hundred and ninety-sir

38
dollars (5396.00); based on the first (1st) day of accident and the sixth (6th) day of Illness.
The Union agrees that if the Company maintains Weekly Indeimity Plan benefits which will meet the standard requirements for full premium reduction for "wage loss replacement plan under the Unerrployment Insurance Act", the employees S/12th share of the premium reduction is retained as payment in kind in the provisions of the Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits.
d)	In the case of disability caused by non-occupational illness, Weekly Indemnity benefits will be payable commencing the first day. of any such absence where the illness results in the claimant being hospitalized as a bed patient and in cases vtiere surgery is performed which necessitates loss of time from work..
e)	Absences due to the same cr related causes will be considered one continuous absence unless the employee returns to full-time work for at least four (4) continuous weeks between absences.
f)	Me Officers of iwa - Canada, Local 1-424 shall, upon written reguest, be permitted to examine statements of premium income, claims and disbursements of the above insurance plan. Such requests will not be granted more frequently than once every three (3) months during the term of this Agreement.
Section 6:	Dental elan
a)	A dental plan will be provided based on the following general principles:

iii)
'n.
Basic dental services [Plan A) - Plan pays 80% of approved schedule of fees.
Prosthetics, crowns, and bridges (Plan B) - Plan pays 50% of approved schedule of fees.
Orthodontic (PlanC) - Plan pays 50% of approved schedule of fees (lifetime maximum $2,000.00). There shall be no waiting period for coverage.
General Principles for Health and Welfare and Dental
Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by the Company.,.
b)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment
39
c)	' Any new employee who has not worked in covered employment in
the last eighteen months will be eligible to become a covered employee on the first day of the month following completion of the probationaiy period. However, for such employee, coverage for the Medical Services Plan and for the Extended Health Benefit will apply on the first day of the month following the date of employment.
d)	Coverage will be portable in all units covered by collective agreements between members of Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp & Timber Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Ltd., and the l.W.A. and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the Industry.
el Coverage during lay-off will be provided as follows:
i)	Employees with one (1) or Bore years seniority - sir (6) months.
ii)	Employees with sore than three (3) months but less than one (1) year seniority - three (3) months.
iii)	In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he is employed for 10 working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
iv)	Also, an employee who returns to work for at least one working day and less than 10 working days will be covered for that sonth, in addition to any lay-off coverage to which he was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
f j	Weekly Indemnity coverage will be eliminated for an employee
on an extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Article IX, Section 3, Compassionate Leave, provided however that such employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity coverage on the agreed upon day of return to work. In order to qualify for this coverage the employee must have returned to his place of residence in British Columbia unless his disability required him to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements of the claims adjudication carrier. In the case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurred during an extended leave of absence, the Trustees have the right to review certain circumstances.
gj Employees on extended leave of absence under Leave c£ Absence, Section 3:. Compassionate Leave will pay their own premiums are Medical Services Plan, Extended Health Benefit, and Dental Plan, while the premiums for Group Life Insurance and
40
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will be paid by the employer during such extended leave of absence.
ARTICLE XX - Lono Tara Disability Plan
a)	The Plan will become effective July 1st, 1962.
b) .	The Plan to be funded on.a SO/SQ-cost sharing basis with contributions of 20 cents per hour per employee per hour
'worked, of which the Industry will contribute 10 cents and the employee will contribute 10 cents commencing July 1st. -■¥^0^ 1988 *
A Board of Trustees will be constituted with equal representation from the Union and the Industry, to be irresponsible for establishing the terms of the Plan and the r-i Vo.n-going administration*
r ^')	The Trustees will select a qualified actuary to assist them
l v '	and to insure the establishment of actuarially sound reserves
«	to fund the benefits provided by the Plan.
e) The Trustees will enter into a Trust Agreement which will include provision for a procedure to settle any major dispute that may arise with regard to the provisions of the Plan.
ARTICLE XXI - PENSION PLAH	/ j
• . ' '' .
Section 1:

&tne t«
Pensic
Sectic
The Parties agree to ^atabiish a Pension Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions VfY the Memorandum of Agreement of the
Pension Sub-Committee dated August 17, 1977.
7
rf
Section 2
The Industry contribution to the Pension Plan of one dollar and 7 £wenty-five cents ($1.2S) per hour per employee per hour worked.
iih-ich was effective July 1986, will be increased by forty-five ■CL/./cents (45 cents) per hour effective July 1st, 1988.
fOL
/71KRTICLE XXII - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGBMt
Section 1:

The Company and the Onion agree to institute the Apprenticeship Training Program for Tradesmen as outlined in this Agreement. The following trades to be part of the Apprentice Training Program:
carpenters
Electricians
Welders
Millwrights
Pipefitters-Steamfitters
Forklift i Carrier Mechanics
41
Heavy Duty Mechanics	Fitters, Filers and Benchmen
Machinists
b)	Where the Company requires a person or persons to maintain a valid pressure certificate, they will notify the Local Union. The Company will pay the cost of the examination fee and fare allowance and lost time wages for the taking of the exam.
c)	If an official of the Department cf Public Works requires welder to attend school, and the Company at their discretion still requires the pressure certificate, the company will pay the cost of the examination fee. fare allowance, and net lost time wages.
d} That a Coaoiihee will be established to review and upgrade the Apprenticeship Training Program.
Section 2:	Selection of Aoorent ic-e Procedure
1} PURPOSE
The purpose of this agreement is to establish an equitable criteria which will give management reasonable assurance that the apprentice, upon completion of his indentureship. will be-ocm-e a proficient tradesman and to assure the Union and its members that the senior applicant who meets the criteria will b-eccma an apprentice.
2)	EDOCATIOMAX. PREREQUISITES
The educational L resent for general trades in Grade 10 or equivalent and Grade 12 or equivalent for the electrical trades.
3)	APTITUDE TESTING
Applicants will be tested in accordance with the bank of tests as teccaaendby the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour. Testing procedure will be as follows:
a)	A standard set of testing instructions and procedures will be developed and authorized by the parties to this agreement and coaaurucated to appropriate management and anion personnel.
b)	The passing grade €or the tests will be established by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour.
c)	The passing marks for the Mechanical Trades and Electrical tests are established as being a combined requirement of, firstly, seventy percent (70%) in the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations segments of the tests, and, secondly, seventy percent (70%) in the
42
overall final scoring c£ the tests.
d)	All scoring computations of percentages in each section and overall scores of the tests are recorded as being rounded off to the next highest percentage point where any fraction of a percentage point exists.
e)	Tests will be conducted on plant property Or near the plant by Management; a Union representative will be present when the tests are given and larked.
f)	Tests recommended Lor the self-evaluation will be made available and may be taken by an interested employee. Pailure to take such tests shall not jeopardise an employee's application for any apprenticeship.
4)	RE-TESTING
a)	It is agreed that where an applicant has failed to pass the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of either the Mechanical car Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-tested one (1) additional tine fear each test.
b)	Results - of all tests will be retained on file in the Company's office. An applicant who has met the criteria
- - -and successfully passed the requisite test and is the senior for any future apprenticeship posting within a three (3) year period, will be considered the successful applicant.	”
c)	An applicant who qualifies and has passed the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of any of the available tests, but failed the overall tests, will be eligible to bid and be re-tested for any future apprenticeship posting.
d)	A master copy of thejtests will be made available to I.W.A. Regional Council No. 1 on request.
5)	MAINTENANCE, MONITORING, AMD DISTRIBUTION OF TESTS
a)	Sufficient copies of the tests, answer sheets, and marking overlays will be maintained by Weldwood of Canada Limited, Vancouver Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia.	'
b> Test materials will be supplied on request to those operations requiring same and will be returned immediately after use.
43
c). Use c£ the teste will be monitored by Weldwood of Canada, Vancouver Head Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour the Province of British Columbia. Such monitoring will maintain a record of applicants' tests, successful applicants' scores recorded, Seniority applied, and provide a follow-up of the successful applicants' progress throughout training and an appropriate post training period. Other information as deemed necessary by the parties to this agreement will be made available as agreed.
6)	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The successful applicant will be given a probationary period up to ninety (90) calendar days.
7)	SELECTION REVIEW
Where a dispute arises out of the selection of an apprentice, that cannot be resolved at the plant level, the natter will be discussed by Management and the Local Union.
El TRIAL PERIOD
This agreement is for a twelve (12) month trial period, from the date of this agreement. Either party may terminate this agreement upon one (1) month’s written notice after the completion of the eleventh month.
ARTICLE XXIII - EVALUATION
Section Is Plywood Evaluation
a)	The Parties agree to make joint application €or the services of the evaluators from Forest Industrial Relations and iwa - Canada, when these services ate necessary for the purpose c£ evaluating or re-evaluating categories in the plywood section of the Company.
b)	Where Forest Industrial Relations and IWA - CANADA have agreed to changes in the present Plywood Evaluation Plan, the Company and the Local Union agree to meet to discuss the possible Implementation of these changes in the Company's operations covered by this Agreement. No implementation of changes nay be made without prior agreement between the Company and the Local Union.
Section 2:	Sawmill Rate Determination
The Sawmill Rate Determination Program as negotiated between Forest Industrial Relations Association and International Woodworkers of America, will be instituted in accordance with Schedule No. 5.
ARTICLE XXIV - TRAVEL TIKE - RIVERKEN, BOATMEN « SCALERS
Section 1:
a)	Marshalling points to be established by mutual agreement for Rivermen. Boatmen, and Scalers.
b)	Travel time shall be paid for at straight time-rates for time in excess of eight and one-half (8 1/2) hours in any one day between leaving the designated marshalling point, and returning to the said point, provided always that the said eight and one-half (8 1/21 hour period is based upon one-half hour for lunch and may be extended to a maximun of a further fifteen minutes where the lunch time exceeds one-half hour.
c)	Employees away from the designated marshalling point in excess c£ ten (10) hours shall be paid at rate and one-half for the period in excess of ten (10) hours.
d)	The Company shall avoid unnecessary delay in transporting employees from the marshalling point to the place of work and return.
ARTICLE rxv - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Section 1:	Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Union six (6) months in advance of intent to institute changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or layin^off of employees.
Section 2:	Retraining	’	’■
The Company shall co-operate with the Government of British Columbia and participate in every way possible in training oc i re-training, of employees so affected.
is -
Section 3:	Rate Adjustment
a) An. employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of mechanization, technological change or automation will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply. However, such employee will have the option of terminating his/her employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 4 below, providing he/she exercises this option within the above-referred-to six
^ I
45
(6) month period.
b) Polloving an application of (a) above, where an employee xs set back to a lower paid job because of an application of article XIX - Seniority brought on by mechanization, technological change or automation he/she will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job. at the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply.
Section 4:	Severance Pay
Employees discharged, laid off or displaced from their regular job because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of one week's pay for each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks pay. This Section shall not apply to employees covered by Section 3(b) above.	.
ARTICLE XXVI - SAFETY BQOIPMEMT
Section 1:

a) Where the following articles of equipment are required to used by the Company or by the Worker's Compensation Board, the Company Shall:
1.	Supply new employees with the articles of equipment as required.
2.	Supply employees moving to another department with the articles of equipment they require and that they do not have at the tire of the mover or
3.	Replace articles of equipment as required when they are presented worn ok damaged beyond repair by an employee at no cost to the employee.
1.	Aprons
2.	Hard Hats
3.	Welding goggles, etc.
4.	Flotation equipment
5.	Dust protection
6.	Eye protection
7.	Ear protection
8.	Gloves
46
Notwithstanding the foregoing all articles of equipment to be replaced only when they ace presented worn or damaged beyond repair; otherwise the replacement will be at the expense of the employee.
b)	The Company shall be required to make available at cost, to those employees who are required to wear them, the following articles:
1.	Safety shoes
2.	Rain gear
3.	Coveralls
fin employee who is required to wear caulk boots by the Worker's Compensation Board shall receive annually a caulk boot allowance of:
Effective July 1. 1988 - $100.00
i) If he has sir {6) months or more seniority, car
li) upon obtaining six (6) months seniority,
ni) Season lay-off shall not interfere with the qualifying period herein.
c)	Companies that supplied safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date c£ this Agreement, will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
ARTICLE XXVII - TOOL IMSORAMCE
a) The Company shall, upon the signing of the Coast Master Agreement, at its expense, insure for damage or loss caused-by fire or flood, the tools of its employees which are required to be used in the performance of their work.
b} The Company shall, upon the signing of the Coast Master Agreement. at its expense, insure the tools of its employees which are required to be used in the performance of their work, for loss by theft where the tools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of $50.00 m respect of each employee' s claim.
47
ARTICLE XXIX - CONTRACTING OPT
a)	The Company will not contract out any work, that is performed by employees in the Bargaining Unit at the effective date of the agreement.
b)	Current practices in operations shall be agreed on with the Local Union in writing. Until such time as agreement is reached the above Clause (A) only will apply,
!
ARTICLE XXX - DURATION OF AGREEKEMT
Section 1
This Agreement is a renewal and revision of the previous Collective Agreement entered into between the Company and the Union on July 1st. 1986.
Section 2?:
a) The Parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the 1st day of July, 1988. tp	day cf	1991/—«TKl
thereafter from year to year unless written notice'-'of contrary intention is given by either Party to the other Party within four (4) months immediately preceding the date of expiry. The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the Head Office of the Party of the First Part, or at the Local Office upon the Local Officers of the Union, Party of the Second Part, within four (4) months immediately preceding the 1st day ©£ July, 1991. If no Agreement is reached at the expiration of this Contract and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time an Agreement i s reached or until negotiations are discontinued by either Party.
b) The Parties hereto agree that the oper.ation of Section 66 (2) of the Labour Code of British Columbia Act 1973 is excluded from the Master Agreement.
DATED this	day oi " A ft/L. , 1989.
FOR:
AMD:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD. (CARIBOO DIVISION)
IWA - CANADA LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
49
SCHEDULE WO. 1
WELPWOOP OF CANADA LIMITED, (CARIBOO DIVISION) EVALUATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD PLANT
CRAPE AND RATE CHART
Gr.	Eff. July 1/88 Eff. July 1/89 Eff. July 1/90
Le*\	Increment Rate____Increment Rate Increment Rate
1
2
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26 27
15.335
15.43
15.55 15.6S 15.81 15.93 16.10 16.25 16.40
16.56 16.72 16.86 17.03 17.22
17.38
17.57 17.76 17.95 18.14
18.38 18.64 18.88 19.13 19.37 19.62 19.87 20.11
16.18
16.28
16.41
16.51
16.68
16.81
16.99
17.14 17.30 17.47 17.64 17.79 17.97
18.17 18.34 18.54 18.74 18.94
19.14 19.39 19.67 19.92
20.18 20.44 20.70 20.96 21.22
17.07
17.18 17.31
17.42
17.60 17.73 17.92
18.08 18.25
18.43
18.61
18.77 18.96 19.17 19.35
19.56
19.77 19.98
20.19 20.46 20.75 21.02 21.29
21.56 21.84 22.11 22.39
EVALUATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD PLANT
***"	JUKE 15/88
JUKE 15/89 $ 16.18
JUNE 15/90 5 17.07
Dry Clipper Feeder Shipping Frame Man Dunnage Man
GRADE 2
15.43
Power Sweeper Operator Lily Pad Chipperman
GRADE 3	15.55
f3 Dryer Feeder
Lathe Charger Attendant
#1 & #2 Dryer Feeder
Car Shorer
Steel Strapper
Core Splitter Operator
Panel Bin Attendant
GRADE 4	IS.65
Lathe Charger Attendant/Lathe Trainee Utility Man Green Chain Offbearer #3 Lathe Charger Attendant
GRADE S	15.81
Sheet Turner
Chip Car Loader
Dryer Grader ~ Offbearer
Strip Saw operator
Sheathing Grader
Core Feeder
12 i #3 Lathe Charger
Attendant - Lathe Trainee
Sheathing Grader
GRADE 6	2.5 93
Chip*n'Saw Attendant - Stud Offbearer Patch Line Patcher Clipper Operator
GRADE 7	16.10
Bead Green Chain Man Assistant Hot Press operator (2 Press
GRADE 8	16.25
Dryer Grader O.B./Cert.
Dryer operator Glue Mixer Forklift Operator -
16-2H
17 18
16.41	17.31
16.51	17.42
16-68	17.60
16.81	17.73
16.99	17.92
17.14
18.08
51
Finish End Tallyman
Forklift Operator - Shipping Oiler
Stacker/Strapper operator GRADE 9	16.40
Forklift Operator - Green End
Forklift Operator - Veneer & Spreader Press
feRAPE 10	16.56
Log Loader - Vat Loading Log Loader - Vat Unloading Core Layer
GRADE 11	16.72
Chip Loader Operator Log Saw Operator Ring Barker Operator
GRADE 12	16.86
Sizing Unit & Grade Line operator Standby Lather Operator/ Charger Attendant
GRADE 14
17.22
#2 Hot Press Operator Sander/T 6 G/Forklift operator Grinderman
GRADE IS
17.38
Dryer operator
Dryer Operator - Weekends
GRADE 19
18.14
#1 Hot Press Operator
GRADE 25
19.62
#2 Lathe operator a3 Lathe Operator
17.30
17.4?
17.64
17.79
18.1?
18.34
19.14
20.70
18.25
18.43
18.61
18.77
19.17
19.35
20.19
21.84
S2
GRADE 26	19.87	20.96	22.11
H Lathe operator
PLYWOOD DIVISIOff CATEGORIES OHDER RAT6 DETERMINATION (LOG YARD)
CATEGORY
JOME 15/88 S 15.88
JUNE 15/89 $ 16.75
JUNE 15/90 $ 17.67
Group 5:
Log Deck Chaser
Group 6:	16.11	17.00
Short Log Deck Operator Long Log Deck Operator
Group 9:	16.81	17.73	18.71
#2 & 13 Cut off Saw Operator/Programmer
Group IQ:	17.10	18.04
Licensed Scaler/Weighmaster
fl Cut-off Saw Operator/Programmer/Log Sizer Group 12:	17.73	18.71
Log Loader Operator
Groun 14:	18.36	19.37
Wagner operator
19.03
19.74
20.44
First Aid Attendant - Job Rate Plus:
“C" Ticket	.30	per	hour
Ticket	.40	per	hour
"A" Ticket	.50	per	hour
"AA" Ticket	.60	per	hour
53
NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD PLANT
PLYWOOD MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
JUNE 15/88 JOKE 15/89 JUNE 15/90
Chargehand Clean Up
plus $.11
15.333	16.18	17.07
2nd Class Engineer 3rd Class Engineer 4th Class Engineer Fjirejyia (where the employee acting as Firoran lias a
fourth Class Ticket)	17.505	18.47
Fireman	16.23	17.12
21.00s	22.16
20.0 IS	21.115
18.885	19.92
23.38
22.275
21.02
19.485
18.065
Fuel Bin Bunkerman	15.335
Maintenance Utility Man	15.39
Steam Plant Utility Man	15.67
Steam Plant Utility Man
(lias 4th Class Ticket)	16.23
Truck Driver Plant	IS.67
Truck Driver Plant (required to operate forklift parttime)	15.95
Warehouse Man Helper	15.60
Watchman	15.335
920 operator	15.95
Cat operator D8 (or smaller)
16.73
16.18
16.24
16.53
17.12
16.53
16.83
16.46
16.18
16.83 17.65
17.07
17.13
17.44
18.06
17.44
17.75
17.36
17.07
17.75
18.62
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
GROUP AND RATE CHART
GROUP
LEVEL
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
JUNE 1S/88	JUNE 15/89	JUNE 15/90
15.336
15,45
15.60
IS.73 15.88 16.11 16.35 16.57
16.18 16.30 16.46 16.60 16.7S 17.00 17.25 17.48
17.07
17.20 17.37 17.SI 17.67 17.94
18.20 18.44
54
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22 23
16.81	17.73
17.10	18.04
17.43	18.39
17.73	18.71
18.04	19.03
18.36	19.37
18.66	19.69
18.97	20.01
19.29	20.35
19.60	20.68
19.90	20.99
20.29	21.41
20.67	21.81
21.06	22.22
21.45	22.63
18.71
19.03
19.40
19.74
20.08
20.44 20.77 21.11 21.47 21.82 22.14 22.59 23.01
23.44 23.8^"
SAWMILL WAGE SCALE
ESTABLISHED BY THE SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
	JUNE 1S/88	JUNE 15/89	JONE 15/90
GROOP 1	15.335	16.18	17.07
Clean-up			
GROOP 3	IS.60	16.46	17.37
Green Chain Puller			
GROUP 4 Chipper Feeder	IS.73	16.60	17.SI
GROOP S	IS.88	16.75	17.67
Sorter Bin Operator #1 Drop Sorter #3 Drop Sorter
GROOP 6	16.11	17.00	17.94
#1 and <2 Triamer/Rotating Sorter Stacker Operator
7	16.35	17.25	18.20
Pocket Edger/Fixed Chipping Heads
GROOP 8	16.57	17.48	18.44
Log Cut-Off Saw Operator/Auto Barker Attendant
55
Forklift Operator Circular Gang Saw Operator
GROUP 11	17.43	18.39	19.40
Chip-N-Saw Operator
GROUP 19	19.90	20.99	22.14
Circular Headrig Sawyer
PLANER MILL WAGE SCALE
ESTABLISHED BY TEE SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
IN^15/E
GROUP 1
«iW Clean-up ^ Strip Piler
GROUP 2
Clock Watchman Paperwrapper
GROOP 3
JUKE 15/88 15.335
End Sealer
Planer Chain Puller Breakdown Hoist Operator
GROUP 4
15.73
16.60
Breakdown Hoist Operator/strip Piler
Car Loader
Receiving Tilt Hoist Operator (Planer End Loader) Planer Chain Puller/Grade Stamper/Checker
16.11
17.00
Chipper Feeder/Set-Up/Swing Saw operator
GROOP 7	16.35	17.25
Strapper Operator - Tallyman Planer Feeder
JUNE 15/90 17.07
6R
GROUP 8
16.57
17.48
Forklift Operator
56
GROUP 9	16.81	17.73
Planer Feeder 4 Set up
Auto Trinuner/Pregraded/(32' 4 under)
Grader #2
GROUP 11	17.43	18.39
Grader II
GROUP 12	17.73	18.71
Planerman #2
GROUP 14	18.36	19.37
Planerman fl G.S.L.A. Grader
18.71
19.40
19.74
20.44
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENTS - ALL DIVISIONS
TRADESMEN, APPRBITICESHIP AND MISCELLANEOUS RATES
CATEGORY
Carpenter
^^Electrician
Heavy Duty Mechanic ^/Millwright
JUNE 15/88
JUNE 15/89
JUNE 15/90
SteaMfitter-Pipcfitter
Helper	16.32S
Helper, 1st Year Completed 16.565
Improver, 2nd Year Completed 17.00 Improver. 3rd Year Completed 17.495 (1st six Months)
Improver. 3rd Year Completed 18.145 (2nd six Months)
Journeyman	19.805
Journeyran - Certified	20.015
17.225
17.475
17-	935
18-	.45S
19.355
20.9055
21.115.
18.17
18.435
18.92
19.47
20.42
22.06S
22.275
Machinist
Helper	16.41
Helper, 1st Year Completed 16.645
Improver, 2nd Year Completed 17.07 Improver. 3rd Year Completed 17*575 (1st six months)
Improver, 3rd Year Completed 18.345 (2nd six months)
17.315
17.56
18.01
18.54
19.335
18.265
18.525
19.00
19.56
20,42
57
Journeyman	19.805	20.905
Journeyman - Certified	20.015	21.115
Forklift s Carrier Mechanic
22.065
22.275
Helper	16.325
Helper. 1st Year Completed 16,565 Improver. 2nd Year Completed 17.00 Improver, 3rd Year Completed 17.495 (1st sir months)
Improver, 3rd Year Completed 18.20 (2nd six months)
Mechanic	19.64
Mechanic - Certified v	19.85
17.225
17.475
17.935
18.455
19.20
20.73
20.94
18.17
18.435
18.92
19.47
20.26
21.88
22.09
Painter Helper Painter Improver,
1st Year Completed Painter
Painter - Certified
16.165
16.99
19.48
19.69
17.055 17.925
20.55 20.775
17.995
18.91
21.68
21.91
Welder	-	Group	3	19.64	20.73
Oncertified
Welder	-	Group	2	19.85	20.94
(Fl-103, DPW 1, DPW 2)
Welder	-	Group	1	20.015	21.11S
(FI—101, Fl-102)
21.88
22.09
22.275
Note 1: Must be qualified as required under the standard Forest Industry Welding Specifications and either having completed the three year apprenticeship program or having worked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours as a Welder.
rifclMG ROOK TRAPES:
Saw Fitter Helper Saw Fitter,
1st Year Completed Saw Fitter Saw Fitter
(with Certificate)
16.325	17.225
16.765	17.685
19.48	20.565
19.69	20.775
Circular Saw	Filer	Helper	19.69
Circular Saw	Filer	19.805
Circular Saw	Filer	-	20.015
Certified
20.775
20.905
21.115
18.17
18.66
21.71
21.92
21.92
22.06S
22,275
Benchman Helper	20.015
Benchman	20.42
Benchman (with Certificate) 20.63
21,115 21.5S5 21.765
22.275
22.75
22.96
58
Chargehand	Plus .11
First Aid Attendant - Job Pate Plus:
30 per hour
PO per hour SO per hour 60 pec hour
“C* Ticket "B** Ticket **C" Ticket **D" Ticket
WELPWOQO OF CAHADA LTb. - UK YARD WAGE SCALE - NOW EVALUATED CATEGORIES CATEGORY	JUNE 15/88 JUNE 15/89 JUNE 15/90
Utility
15.45	16.30
17.20
Strapper
Bucker/Harker/Scaler
IS.60	16.46
17.67	18.64
17.369
19.67
Crane Operator/Repair and 18.66	19.69	20.77
Maintenance Responsibilities
Chargehands	Plus .11
First Aid Attendant - Job Rate Plus:
"C" Ticket "B*. Ticket-“A" Ticket *AA" Ticket
.30 per hour .40 per hour .SOper hour .60 per hour
WELOWOOP OF CAHADA LTD. - QOESWEL OFFICE WAGE SUPPLEMENT - JUNE IS, 1988 START 6 MOUTHS 12 MOUTHS 18 MOHTBS 24 MOUTHS
11.97	12.24	13.10
Junior Clerks, Planer
GROUP 2	12.24	12.47	12-82	13.53
GROUP 3	12.52	12.90	13.40	14.2S
Receptionist Statistics Clerk Personnel Clerk Accounts Payable Clerk
59
GROUP 4	12.82	13.23
Accounting Clerk Payroll Clerk
GROUP 5	13,24	13.67
Senior Clerk, Planer GROUP 6	13.67	14.09
Draftsman
Mini Computer Operator GROUP 7	14.16	14.61
Storekeepers
GROUP a	15,00	15.45
Senior Payroll Clerk Junior Accountant
GROUP 9	15.60	16.11
Purchasing Clerk
13.76
14.23
14.68
15.21
16.12
16.77
14.31
14.29
15.27
15.82
16.77
17.45
WELPWQOD OP CANADA LTD. - QOESNBL OFFICE WAGE SUPPLEMENT - JUME IS. 1989 START 6 MONTHS 12 MONTHS 18 WORTHS gRQPg- X	12.81	13.08	13.94
Junior clerk. Planer
CROP? 2	13.08	13.31
13.66	14.37
GROUP 3	13.36	13.74	14.24
Receptionist Statistics Clerk Personnel Clerk Accounts Payable clerk
GXOVP 4	13.66	14.07	14.60
15.09
15.16
Accounting Clerk Payroll Clerk
14.98
15.36
15.85
16.43
17.43
18.23 24 MONTHS
15.02
60
GROUP 5	14.08	14.61	15.07	15.13
Senior Clerk, Planer
GROUP 6	14.51	14.93	15.52	16.11
Draftsman
Mini Conputer Operator
GROUP 7	15.00	15.45	16.05	16.69
Storekeepers
GROUP 6	15.84	16.30	17.01	17.69
Senior Payroll Clerk Junior Accountant
GROUP 9	16.46	17.00	17.69	18.41
Pure—sing Clerk.
WELDWOOD OF CAMADA LTD. - QQESMEL OFFICE
16.20
16.72
17.33
18.39
19.13
WAGE SUPPLEKEMT - JUNE IS. 1990
6 MOUTHS 12 MOUTHS 18 MOUTHS 24 WORTHS
GROUP 1	13.90
Junior Clerk. Planer
GROUP 2	13.97
CROUP 3	14.25
Receptionist Statistics Clerk Personnel Clerk Accounts Payable Clerk
CIMkij* 4	14.55
13.97
14.20
14.63
14.96
14.83
14,SS	IS.26
15.13	15.98
15.49	16.05	16.71
Accounting Clerk Payroll Clerk
GRQuf 5	14.97
15.40	15.96	16.02	17.09
Senior Clerk, Planer
<***0°? * 6	15.40	15.82
16.41	17.00	17.64
61
Draftsman
Mini Computer Operator
GROOP 7	15.89	16.34	16.94	17,61	18.28
Storekeepers
GROCIP 8	16,73	17.20	17.95	18.66	19.40
Senior Payroll Clerk Junior Account
GROOP 9	17,3S	17.94	18.66	19.42	20.18
Purchasing Clerk
BIDDING PROCEDURE
The Bid Sheet shall be posted on the plant bulletin board for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours.
NOTE:
2.
Woods bids shall be posted.
The Personnel Department shall screen bid	>r the
successful bidder on the basis of	and
competency.
3. The Personnel Manager shall maintain a list of successful bidders on the plant bulletin board which list shall accumulate for three (3) months. As the successful bidders are selected, their names shall be entered with the date and, if possible, the date the job becomes effective. All bids shall be entered five (5) days after the bid sheet comes down. Successful bids shall become effective on the 6th working day after the bid sheet comes down.
4.	A "Successful Bid Sheet” shall be published weekly with copies given to the Department Superintendent, Foreman's Office, Payroll Section and Committee.
5.	in the event the Personnel Manager and/or Superintendent and the employee concerned and/or Committee Chairman cannot settle on an effective date which has been delayed
because of exceptional conditions, a Committee meeting shall be held to appraise the exceptional conditions. Failing settlement in this manner, grievance procedure shall be instigated.
6.	(a) When commencing employment at Weldwood of
Canada Ltd., all employees automatically become part of a 'labour pad.'. To get out of the labour pool and acquire departmental seniority employees must bid on posted jobs or be placed on a job where no one else has bid.
(b)	Alternatively, employees nay find themselves in the labour pool owing to insufficient departmental seniority to reirain in their department:
(i) in case of curtailment of forces: oc
<ii) in case of the disappearance of jobs owing to technical change.
63
(c)	In the event that senior employees in the labour pool fail to bid, the Company and the Committee shall make every effort to place such employees. In regard to employees as defined under Sub-section (b) <i) an (b) (ii) above:
(i)	Placement by the Company and the Committee
shall not interfere with the employee's right to return automatically to the jobs which they held before reduction when the jobs are re-established;
ii)	The ninety (90) day bidding restriction (see
Article 8 below) does not apply, and;
( ii)	Such employees may bid within the new
department until such time as their former job re—opens; at which time such employees must decide whether to return to their old job (with no loss in department seniority) or stay in the new department (seniority starting at the date of placement.
(iv)	Nothing contained in (c)	(i) to (iii) above
shall interfere with the application of Section S(d) of Article VIII.
(d)	any employee in the labour pool who refuses a job in line with his seniority on any given day shall relinquish his seniority rights for that day.
7.	When more than one employee bids on a job and the successful bidder fails to qualify, all employees who bid shall be considered before the job is re-posted. However# if the job is not filled within six (6) weeks, it shall be re-posted.
8.	Department seniority shall start on the day on which a job is successfully bid into the department. Successful bidders within a department may not bid for any job outside that department until ninety (90) days have elapsed unless their bid is the only bid. However# a bid within a department is valid unless a junior employee in the s&tte department who does not come under the ninety
(90) day restriction bids for the job. Successful bids for the job training have no effect on the employee's power to bid for regular jobs.
9.	The foregoing bidding procedure may be revised annually.
64
SCHEDULE WO. 3
(REFERENCE:	SEE ARTICLE XXII)
PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
1.	Principles and Procedures
The implementation and administration of the job evaluation program shall be in accordance w’ith the principles and procedures as set out in a manual dated September, 19SS, and entitled ''Job Evaluation Manual for Operational Hourly Paid Jobs in the Plywood Industry of "British Columbia" as amended July 1, 1966 and as further amended April, 1971 (herein referred to as the "Manual").
2.	Point Range and Increments
All jobs in Group One, the point range of which is 0 to 81, shall be paid the minimum rate for common labour as provided in Article IX, Section 1. The point range for subsequent groups shall be ten (10), i.e. Group Two (82-91), GroupThree (92-101), etc. The wage increment curve for the plywood industry is as follows:
	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
GRADE LEVEL	JUNE 15/88	JUNE 15/89	JONB 15/90
1 .	15.335	16.18	17.07
2 •	IS.43	16.28	17.18
3	IS. 55	16.41	17.31
4	15.65	16.51	17.42
5	15.81	16.68	17.60
6	15.93	16.81	17.73
7	16.10	16.99	17.92
8	16.25	17.14	18.08
9	16.40	17.30	18.25
10	16.56	17.47	18.43
11	16.72	17.64	18.61
12	16.86	17.79	18.77
13	17.03	17.97	18.96
14	17.22	18.17	19.17
IS	17.38	18^34	19.35
16	17.57	18.54	19.56
17	17.76	18.74	19.77
18	17.95	18.94	19.98
19	18.14	19.14	20.19
20	18.38	19.39	20.46
21	18.64	19.67	20.75
22	18.88	19.92	21,02
65
23
24
25
26 27
19.13
19.37
19.62
19.87
20.11
3.	Industry Job Evaluation Committee;
There shall be a committee constituted and named the Industry Job Evaluation Coirmittee (herein referred to as the “Plywood Evaluation Coirmittee) to consist of one member representative of the Coirpany. and one member representative of Regional Council No. 1, International Woodworkers of America.
4.	Function of Plywood Evaluation Co—ittee:
(a)	The Plywood Evaluation Coirmittee shall assume general responsibility for the administration of the job evaluation programL
(b)	The unanimous decision of the Mid Coirmittee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
5.	Plant Job Review Cc— ittee
(a)	There shall be a committee constituted in each Plywood Plant named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referred to as the "Review Committee"), to consist of two (2) members representative of Management and two (2) meirbers representative of the eirployees. At least one (1) representative of Management irust be a member of the Plant's salaried staff or Management, and at least one representative of the employees must be an employee of the Plant whose job is subject to Plywood Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative fromamongst persons not employed at the plant, and the Union may do likewise except that neither Party may choose as its representative a member c£ the Plywood Evaluation Committee or any person who is employed as a Job Evaluator by Forest Industrial Relations Limited or by Regional Council Mo-1 of the International Woodworkers of America.
(b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly paid employees for time lost while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, regarding his/her own job, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly paid employees.
66
6.	Function of Review Committee
(a)	The Review Committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests far evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Plywood Evaluation Comnittee for further action.
The documents required will include a "Request far Job Evaluation" form submitted either by an individual employee car by local Management, and a fully completed Job Description which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of the Plywood Evaluation Committee,
The form of the documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them, and the time limits for completion may be amended as required by the Plywood Evaluation Comnittee under the authority given them by Article 3 of this supplement.
b) Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request	for evaluation or
re-evaluation, ar respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall he by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limit, the Review Committee shall, at the request c£ any one of its members, Immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement, to the Plywood Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
(c)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a jobf it shall commnicate that decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committee that an Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded to the Plywood Evaluation Committee will, similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
(d)	Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Plywood Evaluation Comnittee to determine the facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend any job, description or specification, submitted to them in support of a Request for Job Evaluation form.
7.	Application of Program:
The job evaluation program shall apply to all employees in the plywood industiy except Journeymen, Tradesmen, improvers. Helpers and Powerhouse and Boom Crews.
Direction of Work:
67
Job Evaluation descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirements of the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restriction on the right of the Company to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that If the assignment of such duties changes the job content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure as set out herein.
9.	Re-Evaluation:
(a)	When a job has moved to another grade as a result of re-evaluation, the wage rate for the new grade shall be effective on the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation.
(b)	When a job is moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his/her job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of Paragraph 11(c) herein.
10.	Hew Jobs Created
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a new job, a temporary rate shall be set by Management. The permanent rate for the said job as determined by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be effective as of the date the job was installed. If the evaluated rate for the new job is lover than the temporary rate the incumbent(s) shall be allowed to continue at the tenporaiy rate.
11 Red Circle Jobs
The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circle jobs, the said list to include the name c£ the employee, name of job categoiy filled, the evaluated rate for the job, and the actual rate paid.
Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
(c)	Employees holding red circle jobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for the job to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is reassigned to his/her former job, he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
68
(d)	When the Conpany terminates a job, or a job is not occupied during a period of one year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established.
(e)	If an employee is teirporarily transferred at the request of the Company he/she shall retain his/her existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to his/her regular Job. the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
Seniority:
(a)	Subject to the provisions herein set out, Article vin, (Seniority) shall continue to apply.
(b)	Promotions shall be made only where a vacancy exists. Referral Procedure (Appeal Procedure)
(a)
When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review Committee.
When an employee's request for re-evaluation results in no change being made in the job grade, ctr in a reduction, or when Management requests results In no change or in an increase, the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall give to the appropriate Review Coma it tee a short statement of the reasons for the decision. The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficient depth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
An evaluati/em done by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be final, and binding on the Parties but, at any time after five years since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of a job, Management or an individual employee nay submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
If the Plywood Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation car any Other matter regarding the job evaluation program which falls within their jurisdiction the matter shall be referred to Forest Industrial Relations Limited, and to the International Woodworkers of America, Regional Council for settlement.
69
(e)	All communication between any Plant Review Committee and the Plywood Evaluation Comnittee referred to above shall be effected by sending one copy to the Union representative or representatives on the Comnittee and one copy to the Company Representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office o£ the appropriate Union Local and the Company representatives care o£ the Company*s office at the Plant. In the case of communication to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, the Union representative will be addressed care of the offices of Regional Council No. l of the International Woodworkers of America, Vancouver, and the Company representative care cf the office of Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
14. Training Program
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in each plant shifrl~l>e~tlistituted, the details of which shall be arranged by the Company and the International Woodworkers of America Regional Council.
WO. 4
FIRE RIGHTING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOO OP CANADA LIMITED, (CARIBOO DIVISION)
IWA - CANADA,
LOCAL 1-424, A.F.L., C3Q.	C.L.C.
The following terms and conditions shall be applicable for the duration cf the current Collective Agreement during "Company Responsibility Pires' in which the employer/employee relationship exists under the said Collective Agreement.
1.	Definitions
(a)	Accidental Fire:	Any fire not deliberately ignited by the
Company to dispose of slash or waste, and which requires active measure to extinguish.
70
<b) Slash Escape Pire:	Any slash fire ignited by the Company which
has escaped the pre-deter«nined boundaries and requires active measures to extinguish.
(c)	Slash Control Pire:	Any slash fire ignited by the Company
which is contained within the pre-determined boundaries, or alternatively* any slash fire which ha5 escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control and does not require active measures as contemplated in (al and (b) above.
(d)	gQBjany Responsibility Pire:	Any fire which the Company is
responsible tor taking measures to extinguish pursuant to the provisions of the Forest Act.
(e)	Forest Service Pire:	Any fire in respect of which the B.C.
Forest Service accepts responsibility for direction of measures to extinguish.
(f)	Fire fighting Rates:	The rates of pay far fighting Company
Responsibility Fires hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
(g)	Regular Job Rates:	Rates of pay to employees for the
performance o£ their regular jobs, as set out m the Wage Supplement to the Collective Agreement.
(h)	Statutory ttates:	Rates of pay established by B.C- Forest
Service for fire fighters.
2.	Company Controlled Timber
Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Company employees to fight fire on Company controlled timber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled timber, which is threatening Company controlled timber, the Company will pay those employees at the fire fighting rates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement.
Where the B. C. Forest Service directs the Company to provide its employees for fighting fires in circumstances other than those set out in a) above, those employees will
be paid at the statutory rate.
The parties agree to hold discussions, which will parallel any discussions held between the I.W.A. and the F.L.R.A., regarding the application of this section.
3.	Fire Fighting Rates
(a) The basic rate shall be §14.70 per hour effective June 15/ 1986 and $15.10 per hour effective June IS, 1987, and shall apply to all employees engaged in fighting Accidental oc Slash Escape Fires except those performing
U>
(b)
<c)
71
one of the following fire fighting jobs:
CATEGORY
JUNE 15/88 JUNE lb/89 JUNE 15/90
Crew Boss cat operators Power Saw Mechanics (own saw)
Meehanics/aeavy Duty Tank and/or Trailer
Tanks with Pump Driver/ Operator
Water Tank Truck with Pump Drive r/Ope catof Service Truck/Bus Driver Pumpman
17.91	10.90
17.41	18.37
Mechanics Regular
17.41	18.37
16.73	17.6S
15.9S	16.83
16.26	17.15
19.93
19.38
Job Rate Slip-on
19.38
18.62
17.75
18.10
(b)	Straight time rates will apply to all employees throughout the period during which the said employees are engaged in fire fighting. This shall not include cook and bunkhouse personnel, tradesmen. mechanics, or other categories, servicing. feeding or supplying fire firefighters from areas removed from the area of the fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day in question are exclusively related to fire fighting operations.
(c)	Regular job rates will apply only for the duration of the regular production shift in which the fire started.
(d)	Where employees are working in job classifications during
fire fighting, other than those set cut herein, job rates shall apply.
4 . Board and Lodging
(a)	Employees who commute from home or camp are expected to "carry a lunch". Additional meals where reguired will be at Company expense.
(b)	Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
(c)	Employees living in fly camps will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
72
S.	Travel Tire
Travel tine for employees engaged in fire fighting will be paid in accordance with the Weldwood Agreement, except for the overtime provisions thereof.
6 * Slash Burning
(a)	All employees engaged in watching or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regular job rate and overtime conditions will apply.
The arbitration award of the late Chief Justice Gordon K. Q, Sloan handed down on the 23rd day of February. 1948, shall apply to (a) herein.
7.	Interpretive Notes
(a)	When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary. rates and overtime conditions for fire watchers will revert to the normal conditions provided for in the collective Agreement.
{b) notwithstanding any of the conditions herein, if any equipment possessing residual value to the operation is manufactured car created, the work performed thereon shall be subject to regular rates.
(C) The meaning of the word "extinguish" as used in this Agreement shall include the act or process of suppression to the point when the fire requires fire watchers only.
8.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement except as amended
or modified herein shall continue to apply.
73
SCHEDULE WO. 5
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
Section 1:	Responsibility, Implementation.
Continuity and Administration
The IWA - CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations Limited agree to implement and continue the provisions of this Article of the Coast Master Agreement and any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement as administered by IWA - CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations Limited. The IWA - CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations Limited shall be responsible for all aspects of the program.
Section 2:	Purpose and Method
The purpose of the Program shall be the ranking of applicable hourly-paid categories and placing them in groups according to their relative value within the B.C. Coast Sawmill Industiy by using a method of agreed upon benchmark categories and related job descriptions.
Where new or significantly changed jobs do not fit an existing benchmark job description, the Parties agree to group such jobs by comparison to existing jobs where possible, in order to keep benchmark job descriptions to a minimum.
The Parties agree that the Industiy Proposal as per point (5) Appendix No. 4 of the Memorandum of Agreement dated August 14, 1981 in respect of benchmark job descriptions and groupings will be implemented. Rate increases, if any, will be effective June 15, 1981. No incumbent's rate shall he reduced as a result of the implementation of this Proposal.
Section 3 Application
(a)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall be carried out at the Local Union - Local Management level in accordance with the provisions of this Article and the provisions of any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement.
(b)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall apply to all hourly paid categories in the sawmill industiy except for those categories which have been excluded by mutual agreement between the I.W.A. Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
(c)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall not supersede existing inplant agreements, signed on co: before November 3, 1976 at the Local Union—Local Management Level.
74
Section 4:	Development, Uniformity and Co-ordination
In order to ensure uniform application, the Program Shall be developed and co-ordinated by the B. C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board, consisting of an equal nuitber of representatives from the Union and the Industry as follows:
For the Union:
One (1) Officer representing IWA - CANADA and three (3) Officers representing the IWA - CANADA Coast Local Unions assisted by one (1) Technical Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by IWA -CANADA.
For the Industry:
One (1) representative of Forest Industrial Relations Limited and three (3) representatives of the B.C. Coast Sawmill Industry, assisted by one (1) Technical Advisor in the field c£ Job Analysis employed ty Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
Section 5; Procedure
la) The Sawmill Rate Determination Program shall be administered jointly on a day-to-day basis by the respective Technical Advisors, subject to the approval by the B.C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board.
(b) Any agreement reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union-localManagement Level shall be final and binding on the Parties..
(c)	If no agreement can be reached in this manner regarding the disposition c£ a category rate clearance application
received from the Local Hum----i Management level, the
matter shall be referred to the Board.
(d)	If the Board is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union-Local Management level, t-in* matter shall be referred to the i.w.A. Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited in accordance with Section 1 of this Article.
7S
Section & Job Analysis Wage Curve
EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE CRAPE LEVEL	JUNE 1S/B8 JUNE 15/89
EFFECTIVE JUNE 15/90
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22 23
15.335
15.45
15.60
15.73 IS.88 16.11
16.35 16.57 16.81 17.10 17.43
17.73 18.04
18.36 18.66
19.29
19.29
19.60 19.90
20.29 20.67 21.06
21.45
16.18
16.30
16.46
16.60
16.75
17.00 17.25 17.48 17.73 18.04 18.39 18.71 19.03 19.37 19.69
20.01 20.3S 20.68 20.99 21.41 21.81 22.22 22.63
17.07
17.20 17.37 17.SI 17.67 17.94
18.20
18.44 18.71 19.03 19.40 19.74
20.08
20.44 20.77 21.11 21.47 21.82 22.14 22.S9 23.01
23.44 23.87
The general wage increase provided for in Article V, Section 1(a) has been incorporated into these rates.
Section 7:	Incumbent's Bate
No incumbent's rate shall be reduced as a result of the implementation and/or continued application c£ the Program. The parties further agree that details of the Sawmill Rate Determination Program may be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end of each three month period from the date of this Agreement.
76
SCHEDULE NO. 6 CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING
Section 1:
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related to "new" construction with tradesmen employed by an outside Contractor, plant tradesmen will be paid the "outside" contractor(s) rate(s).
Section 2:
For the purpose of this Agreement "new- Construction shall be defined as meaning:
(a)	The construction of major new buildings and major additions to existing buildings.
(b)	The addition of new or used major production machinery and related equipment not previously in existence.
Section 3;
(a) "TradesnaV shall mean journeymen and apprentices in the following trades:
Machinist
Millwright
Steamfitter/Pipefitter . Welder
Electrician
Carpenter
<bj "Contractor*s Bats' shall only mean the hourly wage paid by that contractor and not any other payment ctr working conditions.
(c)	"Contractor's Rate" will not exceed the rates for similar trades paid by i.w.A. construction companies.
77
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Between
WBLDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (CARIBOO DIVISION)
And
IWA - CANADA LOCAL 1-424
in co-operation with
DIRECTOR OP APPRENTICESHIP 4 INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROVINCE QP BRITISH COLOMBIA ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to inprove the knowledge and skill of persons employed by the Company as Journeymen, Improvers or Helpers in respect to the trades named in Article II herein.
ARTICLE II - TRADES
4 Year Program 4 Year Program 4 Year Program 4 Year Program 4 Year Program to be established 4 Year Program 4 Year Program to be established
1.	Millwrights
2.	Heavy Duty Mechanics
3.	Steamfitter-Pipefitter
4.	Machinist
5.	Electrician
6.	Welder
7.	Carpenter
8.	Forklift • Carrier Mechanic
9.	Filers 6 Fitters
ARTICLE III ~ GENERAL PRINCIPLES Section 1:	Collective Agreement
N I provisions c£ the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this Program.
Section 2:	Right to Continue
Once started in the Program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he passes all of the prescribed tests and work is available to him
78
Section 3:	Tests
Upon completion of each period of training in the vocational School, an Apprentice will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to glass such a test, the Apprentice will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he shall be required to withdraw from the Program.
Section 4; Meaning of Tjtn'
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper oc Inprover, it shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (200)working days: the said period to include time spent at the vocational school.
Section 5:	Training Tile Entitlement
Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice who is hired by the Company and who has had training in another apprenticeship plan will be given recognition of such training time.
Section 6:-----The-Job Training
The Company will ensure that the Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training.
ARTICLE IV - SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
Section I; Seniority
When the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article XXII, Section 2, of the Collective Agreement.
Section 2:	Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned as Helpers for a three (3) month probationary period, unless the applicant's Previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
Section 3 Entrance Standards
Entrance to the Program will in all cases be subject to the applicant meeting the standards required for acceptance by the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
79
Section 4:	Cnanniaorv Entrance
all present Helpers and Improvers employed by the Company must enter the Program.	Helpers and Improvers who cannot qualify in the
Program will be reclassified as labourers with no reduction in rate of pay, until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain a job with equal ac a higher rate of pay.
labourers will not be employed in a manner that will interfere with the application of the Program.
Section 5:	Age Limit
There will be no age limit for applicants.
ARTICLE V ~ TRAINING SCHEDOLES
Section 1:	Assignment as Helper
All successful applicants, except Welder Apprentices (see appropriate Appendix) . will be registered as Apprentices and be assigned as Helpers Ear an 11 month period, prior to attending vocational school, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
A program for the aforementioned Welder Apprentices will be established.
Section 2:	S Year schedule
	Rating	At Operation		At School		
First Year	Eelper	first	11 months	last	4	weeks
Second Year	Helper	first	11 months	last	4	weeks
Third Year	Improver	first	11 months	last	4	weeks
Fourth Year	Improver	first	11 months	last	4	weeks
Fifth Year	Improver	first	11 months	last	4	weeks
Section 3: 4	Year Schedule					
At Operation	At school
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year
Eelper
Helper
Improver
Improver
first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
80
Section 4:	3 Year Schedule
Rating
at Operation
At School
First Year Second Year Third Year
Helper
Improver
Improver
first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Section 5:	Electricians
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 2, 3, and 4 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shall be required to take 8 weeks at school during each year of the Program instead of 4, with the period in the operation reduced accordingly.
Section 6:	Passing Test
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribed test before promotion from Helper to Inprover.
Section 7:	Journeyman Qualification
Following completion of the period of training as required herein, and upon becoming certif ied, he shall receive certified Journeyman's rate of pay-if a. Journeyman's job is available. If., however, a Journeyman’s job is not available he shall be entitled to exercise his plant seniority for job entitlement. If in the exercise of his seniority he is retained as an Improver, he shall not be required to perform a Journeyman's work or take the place of a Journeyman.
Section 8:	Vocational School Delay
If any of the periods provided for in Sections 2, 3, 4 or S herein are exceeded by reason of vocational school facilities being unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements.
ARTICLE VI - WAGE RATES
section 1:	Rates and Increments
a)	Wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall be that specified in the wage Supplement.
b)	An Apprentice vtfio passes his test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Coirpany and the Union during his second term year as a helper.
c)	The Wage Rate for an Inprover shall be that as specified in the Wage Supplement.
d)	An Apprentice who passes a test in the fourth period of
81
vocational training shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his second term as an Inprover.
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen. and who are certified as such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade, as agreed to between the Company and the Union.
Section 2:	Expenses
Pares, Lost Tire Pay, and School Expenses are to be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as part of the cost of the Apprenticeship Plan, with the exception that the employer shall pay the Apprentice while attending vocational school, the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Single persons shall receive their wages, less the sim paid to then by the appropriate Governaent authorities. Married persons shall receive their wages, less the sua paid to single persons by the appropriate Governaent authorities.
section a Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one of the tests under this Program, through no fault of his own, the delay shall not prejudice his right to wage increments provided far in Section 1 herein.
ARTICLE VII - ADVISORY BOARD
Section 1:	Constitution
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two (2) representatives of the Industry, two (2) froa the Onion, one (1) representing the Vocational School. and one (1) from the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
Section 2; Responsibility
The Board shall be responsible far advising the Department of Labour. Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch, regarding the content of tests, standards of marking, and the school curriculumi with respect to registered Apprentices. The Board shall not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests.
82
ARTICLE VIII - GENERAL PROVISIONS Section L
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 2
Persons employed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesman Qualification Exam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 3:
If a present Journeyman fails to pass the test for a voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification Certificate, he can then became indentured as an Apprentice at no reduction in rate of pay.
Section 4:
There- will be a three-man. committee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification, or who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen ‘ s Oual i £ icat ion Act. The committee will also determine what vocational training is necessaiy far persons indentured as Apprentices. Representation on the committee shall consist of the following:
a)	One	(1)	Representative	from	the	Union.
b)	One	(1)	Representative	from	the	Industiy.
c)	One	(1)	Representative	from	the	Apprenticeship	Branch.
Vocational training will be conducted during day courses. Textbooks and study material will be made available when required.
ARTICLE IX - TOOLS
Section 1;
All Journeymen tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for the Journeyman rate, unless they have a full kit of band tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired, with the exception c£ machinery or tools Which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the Journeyman.
Section 2:
The Improver shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of building up the necessary tools to equip himself for the job.
Section 3:
83
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools and shall use those designated to him. However, in his own interest he should commence the process c£ building up a tool kit.
July 1st. 1988
XWA - CANADA
LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
PRINCE GEORGE, B.C.
Dear Sirs:
We wish to confirm our Agreement originally drawn up March 25th,
195S for the duration of our present Agreement in regard to logging
contractors employed by the Company in the Quesnel area.
1.	We shall hold our uncertified logging contractors responsible to abide ly the relevant provisions of the present Agreement, in particular as it regards wage scale, holiday pay and seniority clauses. Dues for all employees and a list of employees foe whom dues are submitted must be submitted to the Local Union once a month, without application for Union membership.
2.	The seniority provisions are interpreted as follows:
Men working for any contractors gather seniority on that operation only.
If another contractor or ourselves takes over all ar part c£ one operation, sen whose jobs essentially continue under the new setup will retain their jobs and go on the new contractor's seniority list as per the date they Were hired by the previous contractor. If we take over the part of the operation, such men will be transferred to the •Seniority list, of our Wbods Department in the manner described above.
If, due to layoff or reorganization of a show or for any other reason, a man's job 'disappears", he has no claim to be transferred to any other logging show, the plywood mill or sawmill.
3.	me Company will encourage logging contractors to make reasonable arrangements to help compensate for travelling were no camp is provided.
a)
b)
84
I.W.A. LOCAL 1-424, Prince George July 1, 1988
Page 2______________________________
4.	New wage categories paid or negotiated by our contractors
(i.e. categories other than or higher than set out in our Agreement) bind us (or future contractors) only if they have been approved by an Officer of Weldwood of Canada.
5.	The Company agreed to notify the i.w.A. as regards the commencement date of new logging shows.
Yours truly,
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
July 1st, 1988
IWA - CANADA LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.,
PRINCE GEORGE, B.C.
Dear Sirs: ne: charge hand
The normal duties of a Charge Rand are to transmit work orders to direct the activities of a group o£ workers in his charge, ne may from time to time supervise a shift on a temporary basis, but will not assume the responsibility of a Foreman for an extended period of tiro.
Re m y or m y not perform work within his area of supervision. Re, as a Onion member, is not granted the right to hire ctr discharge.
None of the foregoing is intended to restrict any of the usual activities OP a Charge Hand in this operation but merely to clarify the fact that the Company does not give Charge Hands the right to hire car discharge employees.
Yours truly,
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (CARIBOO DIVISION)
OTEU 15
85
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED CARIBOO DIVISION QUESNEL, B.C.
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm our understanding that the Union will agree to sit down and negotiate during the term of the 1988-1991 Collective Agreement a continuous production schedule.
It is understood that at such time, all aspects of hours of work and wages to be affected will also be opened for negotiation; and it be further understood that any proposed agreement On this proposal irust be ratified by secret ballot vote cf the members of the IWA - CANADA, Local 1-424, employed by Weldwood of Canada Limited at Quesnel, B. C.
Yours truly,
IWA - CANADA LOCAL 1-424,
C.L.C.
President
Financial Secretary
E. & O-E. OTED 15
86
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
WELDWOOO OC CANADA LIMITED
CARIBOO DIVISION
IWA - CANADA LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C
IE:	JOB POSTING (TEMPORARY JOBS)
Tenporary jobs must be posted if more than three weeks known duration, excluding vacations, with the successful bidder having the right to return to his regular job when the tenporary job expires.
To qualify for a tenporary posting the bidder nust be qualified to perform the job.
Employees holding trainee positions shall not be permitted to bid on temporary jobs except on jobs in the category in which they are training.
Tenporary jobs shall be reposted as permanent jobs when it Is indicated that the absent employee will not return.
EE OVERTIME ON DRYERS
The Local Union agrees to overtime work, on the dryers provided that:
1.	Normal plant production be maintained on a five (S) day per week schedule.
2.	Any additional overtime required in excess of (1) above to be discussed by the local Union and the Company.
3.	This letter of Understanding is to apply to dryer overtime only.
4.	It is further understood that the general principles which have been followed on dryer overtime will prevail as follows:
a)	Overtime will be equalized as much as possible, i.e. one man will not get two overtime shifts on a weekend if it is possible to get another man.
b)	Spares who have seniority and are on layoff will get preference on the unskilled lobs.
87
c)	The following jobs will be manned by experienced personnel in all cases If possible; dryer operators, jeep driver, four dxyer-grader offbearers, two patchers and one reclip operator.
Foremen will control and supervise the above points. RE:	ATTENDANCE AT GRIEVANCE HEETIHGS
The parties hereby agree that for the purpose of grievance meetings, arrangements shall be made allowing all members of the Plant Committee to attend such meetings without suffering any loss of pay.
It is further agreed that prior to talcing up any individual grievance, the Comnittee shall have the right to examine the employee’s record with the Personnel office.
PE:	HOT DRYER CLEANIWG
It is mutually agreed that the members of the cleaning crew will rotate, at reasonable periods, to the “hot spot', and. further agreed that the Company will supply some type of protective overgarment to each of the cleaning crew.
RE:	SELECTIVE EMPLOYMENT
The Company agrees that when an employee, who requires selective employment because of accident or extended illness, returns to work the Company will, within twenty-four (24) hours after the employee has returned to work, inform the Plant Committee of the employee's name and to what work he has been assigned.
Where a dispute arises about the suitability of the work to which the employee has been assigned, the Committee and the Company shall meet and attempt to resolve the matter'.
RE:	MULTIPLE QCJALIFICATIOHS OM BID SHEETS
It is agreed that Foremen and persons excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform work usually performed by employees in the bargaining unit except for instruction, experiments, quality control or in an emergency where no one in the bargaining unit is either available cr capable of performing the work required.
68
REa IMTBtPRETATION ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OP ABSENCE

Further to our discussion, during negotiations in regard to Article IX - Leave of Absence in the new Agreement, the Local Union agrees that Article IX, Section 3, as it applies to Leaves of Absence for educational and training purposes, should be clarified as to intent and propose the following interpretation:
1.	The Company will only be obliged to grant Leaves of Absence for educational and training purposes to employees who intend to take training that, will a'ljfTit thn — individual in obtaining skills related"To........tne industry.
The Local Union agrees that Article IX, Section 3, as it applies to compassionate leave be interpreted as follows:
The company will only be obliged to grant extended compassionate leave to employees in cases c£ emergency such as illness or death in the family, or in cases where the 153S?!aual is designated to act as Administrator of an estate.
Requests €or Leave c£ Absence for personal reasons other than compassionate cr educational training will IW &uCject to the provisions of sections 2 and 3, Article IX of the Collective Agreement.
■'XQ
Parties agree that in the application of Article IX, Absence, Section 3, Corrpassionate Leave, the following shall be used in determining an enployee's eligibility.
Leave of criteria
1.	Leave	of	Absence	without	pay	Cor	extended	vacation
purposes shall be limited to those employees with more than two <2) years continuous service.
2.	Leave	of	Absence	without	pay	for	extended	vacation
purposes shall be granted based on one (1) month leave of absence for each year of continuous service to a maxinum of six (6) months.
3.	Leave	of	Absence	without	pay	far	extended	vacation
purposes shall be limited to a maximum of one (1) leave in a three (3) calendar year period.
4.	Leave of Absence Cor extended vacation purposes will be limited to four (4) employees cff on leave at any one time in the plywood section, one (1) employee off on leave at any one time in the logging section, two (2) errployees off an leave at any one time in the sawmill division, one (1) eirployee off on leave at any one time in the planecmill division, one (1) employee off on leave at any one tine in the plywood maintenance department.
89
5- Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes will be granted on a first come/first serve basis.
BE:	WAGE REVISIONS
This is to confirm our Agreement that wage revisions negotiated on the Coast will apply to the Weldwood operations at Quesnel. In applying such revisions it will be done on the basis of job comparison rather than simply job title.
FE:	ESTABLISHMENT OF FORCES
The Parties agree that when forces are re-established. employees shall return to their previously held jobs as soon as possible but not later than the first shift following the first weekend.
MEW CONCEPTS COMMITTEE
The Parties agree to establish a committee to study new concepts, including industrial democracy/ of ways to improve labour management relations between the above named Parties.
TROUBLED EMPLOYEES COMMITTEE
The Parties agree to establish a Joint Committee consisting of two {2} members from the IWA - CANADA and two (2) members from the Company, to study the practicability of a Troubled Elrployee Program, s? The Committee to report to the Parties no later than June 30, 1983.	/ f
GRADERS
The Parties agree that the grade stamp currently in use at the Cariboo Division will be recognised as a grade stamp issued by an inspection service under a Grade Stamp License Agreement in accordance with the provisions of the B. C. Coast Sawmill Rate Determination Program.
The Lumber Grader job categories that appear in the Cariboo Wage Supplements are as follows:
Group 14 - G.S.L.S. Grader Group 11 - No. 1 Grader Group 9 - Nd. 2 Grader
For the purpose of establishing where Graders fit within these levels, the following procedure will apply:
l. Graders with "A* Tickets will be paid G.S.L.A. Grader's rate.
90
2.	Graders with "B** Tickets will be paid NO. 1 Grader's rate until they have repeated the complete Grader's Course and written the test in an atteirpt to get an "A" Ticket. Even if they da not achieve an "A" Ticket, they will be elevated to a G.S.L.A. Grader's rate.
3.	Graders with no ticket will be paid a No. 2 Grader's rate.
The Parties further agree that the resulting rate changes will be paid retroactively from Septeirtoer 1* 1977.
The Parties finally agree that this Letter of Understanding may be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end of each three-month period from the date of this agreement.
RE:	ARTICLE VXX« SECTION 5 II
WOODS/RIVER EMPLOYEES
a)	An employee who takes the lay-off and does not bid during lay-off returns ta his/her last woods/river bid jcto.
b) An employee who does not take lay-off and bids another job aust rebid the river if he desires to go back on the river.
c) An employee who does not take lay-off and	junior
employee in a previously held job say not elaim’any other previously held job unless the Company reduces forces in
the job which he bussed into, to a point where his seniority does not entitle him to work at that job.
d)	If an employee is on lay-off the only job the Company may recall him to is. his last bid oar the previously bid job be was working at when he took lay-off.
e)	An employee layed-off from a woods/river job who then returns as a spare during the winter (as a labourer) has no claim on any previously held job except his regular bid woods/river job.
£) If a woods/river employee who takes lay-off indicates that he is interested in working at woods spare labourer type work such as slash burning he will be recalled in line with department seniority. At the conclusion of this type of work be may or may not exercise his right to become a spare in the plywood division. if he does go into le plywood plant he must remain as a spare in either the plywood or woods department until his bid job opens up. If he does not go into the plywood plant on the first occasion he will only be recalled into woods spare labourer type work which he indicated he wanted at the
91
tine of his original lay-off.
g)	Provision (f) shall not result in an employee burping an
employee with less seniority.
PR TRAINING FOR FIREHEH, 4TB CLASS EHGIHEER
The purpose Of this Letter of Understanding is to irprove the
technical background of people in the Boilerhouse and open up a line
of progression in the Steaa Plant and a specific agreement re the
Training Program for the entry position for Fireman with Fourth
Class Ticket.
1.	Future Boilerhouse Utility vacancies will be posted as Trainee positions for Fireman with 4th Class Ticket. The successful candidate will be selected on the basis of seniority, and the successful completion of the Apprentice Selection Tests [Mechanical).
2.	Applicants nust be High School graduates including Grade 12 Mathematics or B.C. equivalent.
3.	Successful bidders will enroll in the Department c£ Education correspondence course for 4th Class Engineers, and should complete the course within twelve (12) months.
They would keep the Chief Engineer advised of their progress.
4.	To remain in the Utility position, the trainee must complete the Fourth Class Certificate course and examination as set out in the Leave of Absence foe Stationery Engineers Training Agreement within sixteen
(16) months.
5.	Trainees will be utilized as relief Fireman when the Chief Engineer feels they havebeccme familiar with the position of Fireman.
6.	Once trainees have their 4th Class Ticket, they would qualify for bidding on the next permanent Fireman's posit im.
7.	Boilerhouse Utility Trainees on obtaining their 4th Class Ticket will be paid the Boilerhouse rate assigned to the Fireman category.
8.	Present Boilerhouse Utility bid holders not in possession of a 4th Class Stationery Engineering Certificate will be able to bid on future Fireman positions. On obtaining such bid, he will be required to enroll in the Department of Education Correspondence Course foc a 4th Class Certificate and complete the course and examination as set
92
out ±n the Leave of Absence for Stationery Engineers Training Agreement, within eighteen (18) months. If he does not pass the course or examination. he will be given a second opportunity to do so- This mist be completed within six (6) months. Failing a second time, he will be required to withdraw from the program, but:wiil keep the bid position of Fireman.
This Agreement shall take, effect of August 28th, 1981 and rs subject to review at the request of either party after two months written notice.
RE:	ARTICLE XI, SECTION 4 - PERSONAL FLOATING HOLIDAY
The purpose of this Letter of Understanding is to clarify the administration of the Personal Floating Holiday.
a} .The Parties agree that a regular, full-time employee, when /taking his Personal Floating Holiday as provided for in Article XI, Section 4; must have worked his last regularly scheduled work day before, and his first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his absence is due. to illness or an occupational injury, or the employee; is on authorised leave of absence (subject to Article XI, sub-section 4(b) (iii).
b)	The Parties agree that when an employee has been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days and terminates for whatever reason, and he has not previously taken his Personal Floating Holiday then he shall be paid his Personal Floating Holiday.
c)	The Parties further agree that payment of the Personal Floating Holiday upon termination shall not be constcued as an extension of his period of employment.
/	RE:	APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Where an employee voluntarily leaves the apprenticeship program, he/she shall forfeit all right to train in that trade, unless there /is evidence of immaturity or poor health at the time of the bidding /off the jcto. In such a case, Management agrees to review a new bid J but one (1) year must pass from the date of the occurrence.
93
DATED this
day of
1989
FOR
FOR;
WELDWOOD OP CANADA LIMITED	IWA - CANADA
(CARIBOO DIVISION)	LOCAL 1-424,
C.L.C.
President
Financial Secretary
E. £ O. E.
94
SCHEDULE NO. 7
ALTERKATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A.	FLEXIBILITY QF BOORS OF WORK
The Parties recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in the Hours of Work Article, for the express purpose of better utilization of manpower and capital such as:
Balancing o£ production Kaintenance Market requirements Even flou production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuous scheduling (eg. Logging, Engineers, Firemen, Maintenance, Watchmen)
B.	SHIFT SCHEDOLIHG
nie parties agree that the following shift schedules will provide the flexibility required to meet the needs expressed above.
Logging
i)	compressed schedules consisting of 10 hours per day, 4 days per week;
ii)	non-continuous schedules such as 10 days on, 4 days off.
Manufacturing
i)	2 crews working 4 days, 10 hours per shift;
ii)	up to 3 crews working Monday to Saturday. 10 hours a shift not exceeding 40 hours per week;
iii)	employees working in continuous operations stay be scheduled to work shifts other than (i) car (ii) above.
95
3. Maintenance
i) shifts of up to 10 hours per day, 40 hours per week, Monday to Sunday Inclusive ;
i i) three shifts per week, not exceeding 12 hours per day.
4.	Other Shifts
It is understood the parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
C.	IHPLBMBKtATXOM
any variation(a) top the Hours c£ Work Article shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
1.	The Company and the Local Union will meet to
discuss proposed shift schedules within the terms of the Hours of Work Article. It is anticipated that the Local Union will make sincere attempts to assist the Company wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The parties must mutually agree on resolution of issues such as:	-
a)	details of shift
b)	details of Statutory Holidays.
Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave, and Jury Duty.
c)	Maximum length of shifts €or physically demanding work. Accident prevention is a factor to taken into account in determining shift lengths.
d)	The loss of hours/employment as a direct result of the implementation of alternate shift schedules.
e)	The use of employees for supplementary production work.
2.	The Camp of Plant Committee and the crew will be actively consulted by the Parties during the process.
96
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
When as alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of the Collective Agreement will be administered on the principle that an employee will not lose car gain any benefits over his normal five-day schedule.
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intention Is to increase the use cf casual employees in place of regular employees.
2.	Different parts of an operationmay be scheduled on different shifts.
3.	The principle of the forty (40) hour week is to be maintained over an averaging period.
4.	This Article shall not change existing alternate shift agreements, unless agreed to by both parties.
5.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other Articles cf the Collective Agreement which provide benefits after eight (8) hours are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
7.	An employee's rest days may vary fro® week to
week under an alternate shift schedule. Employees shall not be paid premium pay for changes in their rest days	in these
circumstances.
8.	An employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shall receive rate and one-half for work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest day results fro® the application of seniority ctr has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
9.	There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are changed because Of the implementation of an alternate shift schedule.
Gomes from man’s mastery of his Environment and of himself, it is won by individual effort and group co-operation.
it can be achieved only by informed, alert, skillful people who respect themselves and have a regard for the welfare of others.