1
!
N O ,V, .1R f ; .MPLOVf'si
.	.4:
WILDWOOD OF §M , ('WILLIAMS LAM

SmmSL
Mm
iiw
ABA UPI1TS3
DIVISIONl
illllii
■ >«#«., Him, i-«?g
Jt-SLY i	30, 1997
%
#§;
INDEX
ARTICLE
I	Bargaining Agency
II	Definition
HI	Management
IV	Union Security
V	Wages
VI	Pay Days
VII	Hours of Work and Overtime
VIII	Seniority
IX	Leave of Absence
X	Vacations with Pay
XI	Statutory Holidays
XII	Safety and Health
XIII	Grievance Procedure
XIV	RightofReference
XV	Interpretation and Arbitration
XVI	General Provisions
XVII	Forestry EnvironmentalCommittee
XVIII	Health and Welfare
XIX	Long Term Disability Plan
XX	TWA - Forest IndustryPensionPlan
XXI	lob Training
XXII	ApprenticeshipTrainingProgram
XXIII	TechnologicalChange
XXIV	Plywood Job EvaluationPlan
XXV	Safety Equipment
XXVI	Tool Insurance
XXVII	FirefightingAgreement
XXVIII	SawmillRate Determination
XXIX	Contracting	Out
XXX	Duration of Agreement
SUPPLEMRNT	
No I	Wage Scales
No.2	lob TrainingPrograms
No 3A	ApprenticeshipTrainingProgram
No. 3B	ApprenticeshipTrainingProgram -Filing
	and Fining Trades
No. 4	Plywood lob Evaluation
No. 5	Firefighting Agreement
No 6	Pension Plan
No. 7	Construction Contracting
No. 8	Alternate Shift Scheduling
No 9	Seniority* Plant i
No. 10	New and EvolvingWork
PAGE
2
2
2
2
6
9
9
14
18
21
25
28
29
29
30
32
34
35
39
40
41
41
41
42
44
45
45
45
48
48
50
57
59
68
77
82
85
90
91
94
97
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 9th day of November, 1994
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADALEMITED (WILLIAMSLAKE DIVISION)
(hereinafter known as the "Company") CF THE FIRST PART
AM)
IWA CANADA, Local I -425, C L C
(hereinafterknown as the "Onion") OF THE SECOND PART
I WEEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the Parties hereto that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationships between the employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement between the Parties hereto, AND
2	WEEREAS the Company accepts responsibilityto observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement, and to promote orderly and peacefulrelations with the Employees, AND
3	WHEREAS the Tlrim accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement, and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Company,
NOW THEREFORE the Parties hereto mutuallyagree as follows
Page i
ARTICLE I - BARGAINING AGENCY
The Company agrees to recognize and bargain With the dulyelectedbaigainingrepresentativeon behalf of its Employees properly and duly certifiedunder the appropriate regulations in effect from time to time
Section 2:
The Party ofthe First Part agrees that the bargainingauthorityofthe Party of the Second Part shallnot be impaired during the term ofthis newcollectiveagreemenl. The Party ofthe First Part agrees that the only certification they will recognize during the term ofthis new Agreementis that ofthe Party ofthe Second part unless orderedby due processof law to recognize some other bargainingauthority
ARTICLE II-DFFTNTTTON
The term "Employee"asused and for the purpose ofthis Agreement shall include all persons employedby the Company on whichbehalfthe IWA CANADA Local 1-425, C.L.C., has been certified as bargaining agents, except and excludingforemen and others having authority to hire and fire, office workers, supervisoryofficials and salesmen.
ARTTCT-F. EH ■ MANAGEMENT
The Management of the operation and the direction and promotion ofthe Employeesare vested exclusivelyin the Management, provided, however. that this will not be used for the purpose of discriminationagainst employees
ARTICLE rv ■ UNTON SECURITY
The Company will co-operate with the Chian in obtaining and retaining as members, the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present to new employeesandto all Supervisors andForemen, the Policy herein expressed
Page 2
Section 2:
All employees who entered the employment oftheCompany's Veneer Plant on or after the 8th of lune, 1965, and all new employees, shall within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, became members ofthe Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, a5 a condition of continued employment
All employees of d e Sawmill, Planer Mill, Yard and Shop who entered the employment ofthe company on or after the 1st day of October, 1964, and all new employees, shall, within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution ofthis Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term ofthis agreement, as a condition of continued employment
Any employee who is amember in good standing, or is reinstated as a member ofthe Union, shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term ofthis Agreement
a)	Any employee who fails to maintain his membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments, shall be subject to discharge after seven (7) days written notice to the company ofthe said Employee’s refusal to maintain his/her membership.
b)	It is agreed that the application of this Section means that when an employee fails to maintain his/her membership in good standing by refusing to pay dues and assessments, and provided proper notice has been given in accordance with the Agreement. the employee will be discharged for such refusal.
a)	No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his/her application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the IWA National Constitution, as revised 1988 and in accordance with the By-Laws of Local 1-425, which the Local Union Certified as being correct as of July, 1982.
b)	Any employee who applies to jointhe Union pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Union, shall not be subject to discharge from employment
Page
The Company shall require all new employees, at the time ofhiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union. All checkoff forms to be forwarded to the Local Union within fifteen (IS) days ofhiring.
IWA CANADA CHECK-OFF
Starling Date 19
Name of Employer	Name of Employee
Address
Portal Code
Phone (Please Print)
Operation	Social Insurance Number
Are you a Member of the IWA?
In what IWA operation were you last employed?
Local Union
I HEREBY AUTHORIZE AND INSTRUCT YOU TO DEDUCT FROM MY WAGES AND
REMIT TOLOCAL 1-_______THE FOLLOWING IN PAYMENTOF THE AMOUNT SET
OUT BELOW:
1.	Union Initiation fees in the mount ofj
2.	UnionBackDues in themount of	$
3	Union Dues S	per month, commencing	19
4	Union Assessmentsin the mount and at the time stated in notice received by you from the Local Union designated above.
Clock No.
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
I hereby request and accept membershipin the IWA CANADALocal I - ,and agree to abide by the constitution and by-laws ofthe organization In case of misstatement of qualificationsfor membership I agree to forfeit all rights, privileges and monies paid
Signature of Applicant-Employee
Section 7;
This assignment, in the case of Employees already members ofthe Union shall be effective immediatelyand for those Employees not previously members ofthe Union, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution.
The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignmentfumil and unless said assignment is revoked by the employee) to the Local W o n named therein, no later than the 15th day ofthe month following the month in which the deduction was made from the employee, with awritten statement of names ofemployees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
Section 8;
The Company shall furnish the Union with Social Insurance Number of each employeeon its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded to the Union after the execution of this Agreement or after the Employee enters the employment ofthe Company,whichever date last occurs.
Sectgnl;
Employer Deductions From Wages • Employer Benefit Plans • The Parties agree that the Company shall deduct from an employee'swages and shall remit to the appropriate employee benefit plan, the employee's contribution which is specifiedin anybenefitplan agreed toby the parties to the Coast Master Agreement.
Section I:
a)	The Parties hereby agree that wages of all hourly rated employees covered by the
Agreement shallbe increased by three percent (3%) per hour effective June IS, 1994; a further three percent (3%) effective June 15,1995, and by two percent (2%) effective June IS, 1996.
Page 6
b)	Employees who have Id? ihe employ of the Company must apply within thirty (30) <iay^ of ratification to be eligible for retroactivepay flowing from this Agreement.
c)	The Parties agree that the minimum rate in the mill for common labour shall be
i)	$18,715	per	hour effective June	15th,	1994
ii)	$19,275	per	hour effective June	15th,	1995
iii)	$19.66	per	hour effective lune	15th,	1996
d)	Cash Payment • A one thousand dollar ($ 1,000	00) cash payment will be paid, within 14
days ofnotice of ratification of the 1994 - 1997 Memorandum of Agreement to all regular full-time employees, and designated pan-time employees who have worked a minimum of 350 hours in the 12-month period preceding the date ofnotice ofratification and who are actively employed at the date ofnotice ofratification and who are actively eniploved at the date of signing this Memorandum.
A five hundred dollar ($500.00) cash payment will be paid June 15, 1995 to all regular full-time employees and designated part-time employees who have worked a minimum of 350 hours in the preceding 12-month period
A cash payment may be paid on June 15, 1996 to all regular full-time employees and designated pan-time employees who have worked a minimum of350 hours in the preceding 12-monthperiod. subject to the following scale
Based on the Price Waterhouse annual analysis ofthe B C Forest Industry which will be published in The Forest Industry in British Columbia in May of 1996, if the return an capital employed for the Interior lumber sector in 1995 is equal to or greater than 20 0 percent, a cash payment of five hundred dollars (S500.00) will be paid, ifequal to or greater than 16.1 percent, a cash payment of four hundred dollars ($400.00) will be paid, ifequal to or greater than 12.2 percent, a cash payment ofthree hundred dollars ($300 00) will be paid; ifequal to or greater than 9 0 percent, a cash payment of two hundred dollars ($200 00) will be paid ifequal to or greater than 6 75 percent, a cash payment of one hundred dollars ($ 100 00) will be paid
Section 2:	Grading Tickets
a) Lumber Graders
All certified lumber graders shall receive the premiumsset out below, in addition to the Job Evaluation Rate
Class A Grading Certificate - fifteen cents (I5f) per hour Class B Grading Certificate- ten cents (104) per hour
Provided that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as lumber graders
Page 7
b)	LumberGrading Certificate
Any employeeholding a Class A or B Lumber Grading Certificateshall receive a premium of five cents (5^) per hour for all hours worked. There shallbeno stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
c)	Grading Tickets shall be permanent and valid certificates, but graders shall remain subject to the regulations of I.L.M.A., C.L.M.A., C.O.F.I., N.I.L.A., P.L.I.B., and other regulatory bodies.
d)	All lumber graders holdinggrading certificatesshall attend upgrading classes as required
e)	Lumber graders who are required to attend upgrading classes(grading rule changes) shall receive their regular straight time rate for time spent attendingsuch classes.
f)	Where a companyis paying abonus or premium(s) greaterthan set out below, it shall keep suchPolicy in effect.
Section 3; First Aid Attendants
at DesignatedFirst Aid Attendants shall receive theirjob rate of pay plus the Ticket premium rate. All other employeesholding valid First Aid Tickets shall receive a premium of five cents (5 cents) per hour over and above theirjob rate. There shall be not stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
k) Where a Company is paying a bonus or premiumfs) greaterthan set out above, it shall keep such policy in effect.
It is agreed that employeesengaged on contract or piecework shall not receive less money than the equivalentof the hourly rate specified in the wage schedulefor the number of hours worked in each pay period.
Section s:	Shift Differential
The first shift is the recognized day shift. Hours worked outside the recognized day shift shall be regarded as the second and third shifts. A shift differentialof thirty-one cents (31 cents) per hour shall be paid for second and third shifts. A day shift employee working in excess of his/her regular shift shall be paid rate and one-halfwithout the differential Any employee on the second or third shiftworking in excess of his/her regular shift shall receive rate and one-half For the purpose of the last sentence, rate shall be rate plus thirty-one (31 cents). Persons employedother than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one cents (31 cents). Persons employedother than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one (31 cents) shift differential for all hours worked outside the recognized day shift.
Page i
StdiMLft
In the went thatjob conditions change or new machinery is installed, or anew category is established, the Union and the Company agree to meet lo discuss designation and wage rates to be paid to the employees concerned.
Section 7:
Effective June IS, 1931, the Company agrees to pay a Power Saw allowance of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per day to Mill Buckerswho maintain and operate their ownPower Saws Effective June IS, 1982 the allowance is increased to eighteen dollars ($18.00) per day
ARTTCLF-V1 - PAYDAYS
a)	The Company shall provide for pay days every second week
b)	Each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statementof tamings and monthly deductions
ARTICLE VII - EOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 1;
a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Friday inclusive, subjeetto the exceptions containedin Sections2 and3 of this Article.
b)	Overtime for production workers will be paid d: rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (3) in a day and for Saturday and/or Sunday work, with the following exceptions:
Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following,
i) Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day jj) Hours worked on Sunday ty employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6)days.
tit) Item ii) above shall not apply to employees who work on Sunday as a regular scheduled day.
iv)	For the purpose of these provisions, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as a shift worked.
c)	If a Statutory Holi day occurs during the work week, the employees shall only be required to work on Saturday and/or Sunday for the time lost due to the Statutory Holiday ty mutual consent. For such work tho employ eeshall be paid rate and one half
Page 9
ge^lon2:
a)	Those employeeswho, of necessity, regularly work on Saturday and Sunday shall take two (2) other days oftheweekoffio be mutually agreedbetween the employees and the Company. Insuchevenl, Saturday and Sundayshallbe considered working days and overtime rates shall not apply on Saturday. However, these Employees shall be paid rate and one half for work performed on Sunday. Overtime rates shall apply when the regular daily or weekly work limit has been exceeded. Overtime rates shall apply on the rest days ofthese Employees, if worked, unless achangeinrest days has been agreedupon between the Employeesand the Company.
b)	Forthe purpose of this Section only,employeesshallbe Engineers. Firefighters, Operating Millwights. Maintenance Workers and Watchmen.
c)	Maintenance,Repair and ConstructionEmployees can be employedon a Tuesday to Saturday workweek, for which they shall be paid straighttime for Saturday work. In such event, Sunday and Monday shall be recognized as their rest days and any work performed on their rest days shall be paid for at rate and one half The rest day, Monday, may be changedby mutual consent between the Employeeand the Company. In such event, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straighttime. If the Employee works on Monday at the request of the Company, the rate of pay will be rate and one half However, ifthe employee requests atemporary change from his/her rest day onMonday, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight time
d)	If a Statutory Holiday occurs on the Employee's regular day c£f, he/she shall be entitled to take his/her next regularwork dayoffvithoutpay.
The weekly and daily hours shall be in accordance with the Hours of Work Act of British Columbia
SeetionJ; Alternate Shift Scheduling
a)	Management, Plant or Camp Committees and the Local union shall have the right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules which, except for production shifts m manufacturing operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour week is maintained aver an averaging period. Rate and one-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday.
b)	Any variation(s) to the preceding Sections denoting normal hours of work shall be
implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
i)	Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Local Management.
ii)	Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations.
c)	When alternative shift schedules have been implemented in accordance with (a) and b) above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A.	j) The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily
hours of the established schedule.
ii)	Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
m) All hours worked on an employee's scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company
(lv) All hours worked on Sunday except those excluded in the casual section
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	All hours worked in excess of A(i) above.
ii)	All hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday is also an employee's scheduled rest day, if the employee has w orked forty (40) straight-time hours in the preceding six (6) days, unless 9 change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company
C.	Supplement No. 8 - Alternate Shift Scheduling, contains the agreed upon
general principles and parameters for the establishment, implementation or discontinuance of alternate shift schedules.
Section 5:	Three Shift Operation
a)	The Company shall have the right to operate the plant or any part thereof on a three-shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours' pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Company's option.
b)	Section a) above shall only apply to those employees actually working on a three-shift basis
Page 11
Section 6;
It is agreed between the Parties that if three (3) hours or less are necessary after midnight Friday, or on a Statutory Holiday, to complete the shift which commenced work on Friday afternoon, or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight to completethis shift will be paid at straight time.
Section 7;
The foregoing provisionsof this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeingto any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 8:
Any employee called for work and finding no work available due to reasons beyond Ms or her control shall be entitled to two (2) hours pay at the usual rate. This shall apply unless the Companygives notice cancellingthe said call
Section 9:
When an employee is called for work and starts work he/she shall receive four (4) hours pay at higher regular rate unless his/her work is suspended because of inclement weather, or other reasons completely beyond the control of the Company.
Section 10:	Call-Back Time
Employees called back to work aftercompletionof their regular scheduled shift shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours at rate and one half
Section 11:
Ail employeesm manufacturing plants shall be entitledto two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods during each regular shiftiprovided alwaysthat the Company shall have the right to use relief employeesin implementing this provision.
Section 12:
a)	The term "CasualPtldi' as used in this Agreement shall apply cnly to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-offregular employees or other persons hereinafter referredto as "CasualEmployees".
b)	Casual employees on maintenance,repair or preparatory work shallbe paid at straight-time job rates, and those on production shall be paid rate and one half for all work performed on Saturday or Sunday.
Page 12
c)	Casual work an maintenance, repair and preparatory work will be paid at straight-time job rate
d)	Regular laid-off employees shall not b e classified as Casual Employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said casual employees
e)	The employer agrees to keep a separate seniority list of casual employees who have worked at least ten (10) working days, exclusively for recall purposes and, subjectto clause d), further agrees to recall casual employees in accordance with their seniority as set forth in this list
Section 13:
When an employee is unavoidably prevented fnmreponing to his/her scheduled shift, if
reasonably possible, he/she must give notice to his/her foreman, or at the Company office, at least
two (2) hours before the shift commences.
Section 14:
The Company agrees lo discontinue the use of time clocks siijectto the following
a)	The general use of clocks to be discontinued for a trial period of three (3) months.
b)	New employees are to punch the clock for the first three (3) months of employment.
c)	Casual employees are to punch the clock.
d)	Employees who repon late must punch the clock and have the card initialed by their Foreman.
e)	Employ —may make arrangements with employees on the m ejabs on their following shift to relieve them a naxurumoften (10) minutes prior to their regular quitting time providing they have permission of both Foremen involved.
f)	Employees may enter or leave their place of work by the Main Entrance only.
g)	Employees who work overtime must punch the dock.
h)	Employees who have been absent and return to work irust repon to their department foreman at the commencement ofthe shift.
i)	Employees who abuse the systsnshall be required to punch the clock for a three (3) month period
j)	Employees abusing the honour system will still be subject to Article HI of the Collective Agreement.
Section 15;
Where maintenance, repair and construction employees are required to work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the company shall provide a hot meal, such hot meal to be consumed by the employees on company time before beginningthe overtime work.
ARTICLE Vm - SENIORITY
a)	All employees hired shall be on a probation for thirty (30) days worked, and during such period no seniorityrights shall be recognized
b)	Upon completion ofthirty (30) days worked they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company’ semploy, provided however that the probationary period ofthirty (30) days worked shall only be cumulative within the three (3) calendar months following the date of entering employment
c)	It is agreed that probationary employees will have preference over Casual employees far any work performed during the normal work week, subject to competency
d)	It is further agreed that in the application of(c) above, probationary employees will be called in for work in accordance with their hire date, unless such call-in is beyond the control of the employer, and is subject to the employee being competent to perform the work, This obligation does not apply where the employeecannot be readily contacted or where the employee has worked one shift in the 24 hour period
It is agreed that upon the request of the Union, a list will be suppliedby the Company setting out the name and the starting date with the Company of each regular employee. However, such request shall not be granted more than twice during each year of the term of this Agreement. The Company shall advise the Union once each month of changes to the said list.
Page M
Section 3:
a)	The Company recognizesthe principle of seniority, competency considered
b)	The application ofseniority shall be determined by Division as set ow below
1	Plywood Division
2	Sawmill Division
3	Open Division
c)	The seniority provisions of this Agreement shall apply separately to each division Employeeswho have been laid off shall, inthe event of job openings occurring in another Division, begiven preferential hiring on the basisofseniority entitlement
Section 4:
a)	The Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline them or discharge them for proper cause
b)	Promotions shall be entirely a matterfor the Company'sdecision. likewise the selection of supervisory officials, but in making promotions, other things being equal, the company agrees to give due consideration to the length of continuous service
Section 5:
It is agreed that companiessignatoryto this agreement shall give preference in hiring, competencyconsidered, on the following basis, inthe following order
previous employees ofthe Division who have both previous seniority and an application on tile
previous employees of the company who have previous company seniority and are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reductions in other operations of the company
laid offemployees of other forest industry companies in the communities. who are seeking employmentas a result ofoperational closuresor crew reduction m excess of ninety (90) days
laid off forest industry IWA members of Local 1-424 and 1-425 who are seeking employmentas a result ofoperational closuresor crew reduction in excess of ninety (90) days
persons who qualify for preference, and wish to exercise their rights to preference, must make application within six months ofthe operational closureor the ninety day layoff period
Applications will be kept on file as active for 60 days. After which time, applicationsmust be renewedby the person seeking employment, or no preference shall be considered
1
2
4
5
Page 15
Section 6;
a)
It is agreed that when employees are to be re-hired after alay-offit shall be done on the basis ofthe last person released shall be the first person re-employed, subject to provisions of Section3a). It is agreedthat incase of emergencytheapplicationofplant seniority maybe postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding three (3) days. If the Company decidesto exercise its rights under these provisionsit shall notify the Committeeor the Local Union immediately.
b) Where a reduction offorces is caused by emergency conditions, the applicationof
senioritymaybe postponed for such period as maybe necessary, but not exceeding five (5) working days. If the Company decidesto exercisers rightsunder these provisions, it shall notify the Shop Committee as soon as possible.
c)	During a reduction offorces where an employee's seniority is such that he/she will not be
able to keep his/her regularjob he/she may elect to apply his/her seniority to obtainajob paying a higher rate, subject to the competency of the perron involved and the provisions of Section] Details to be worked out between the Local Union and the Company
d) During a reduction offorces where an employee'sseniorityis such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regularjob, he/she may elect whether or not to apply his/her seniority to obtain alowerpaidjob or ajob paying the same rate of pay or accept alay-offuntil his/her regularjob becomes available, providedhowever
i)
•>)
Section 7:
If during the lay-off period the employee wishes to return to work and so notifiesthe Company, he/she shall be called back to work as soon as his/her seniority entitles him/her to ajob
The applicationof this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his/her rights, bumping an employee with less seniority.
In the event of areduction ofthe forces, the last perron hired shall be the frrstreleased, subjectto the competencyofthe personinvolvedandthe provisionsof Section 3 a).
Section 8;
It is agreedthat when employees are io be re-employedafter alay-offit shall be done on the basis ofthe last person released shall be the first person re-employed,subject to the provisions of Section 3 a).
Page 16
Section 9;
a)	When re-employing in accordancewith Sections, after a shutdown all employeesshallbe notified by telegram or registered letter at least seven (7) days before restart of operations The employees must reply by telegramcr registeredletter inthe affirmative within ninety-six (96) hours ofthe telegram or registeredletter being sent out by the Company, and appear for work not later than the end ofthe above stated seven (7) day period
b)	Employeesresident inthe Province of Alberta or the Yukon Territory shall be entitled to one(l) additional day to repon and employeesresidentin any other Canadian Province or the United States shall be entitled to two (2) additional days to repon
c)	11 shall be the employees'responsibility to keep the Company informed of their addresses during the period ofthe shutdown.
d)	It is agreedthat allemployeesshall, upon returning to employment in accordancewith this Section, retain all seniority rights.
Section 10:
It is agreed between the Parties that seniority during layoffs shall be retainedon the following basis
a)	Employeeswith less than one(l) year's service shall retain their seniority for a period of eight (8) months
b)	Employeeswith one(l) or more year’s service shall retain their seniority for one (l>ear. plus one (I) additional month for each years service, up to an additional six (bjmonths
c)	A laid-off employee's seniority retention under a) and b) above is reinstatedon the completion of one (I) day's work
Section 11:
11 is agreedthat when an employeehas been transferredby the Company to a supervisory or staff position. he or she will continue to accumulateseniority for a period ofninety (90) days At any time during this ninety (90) day period the individual shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit in the job which he/she would have held ifhe/she had not left the bargainingunit (In special cases this ninety (90) day period maybeextendedfor up to a farther ninety (90) days by mutual agreement between the Company and the Shop Committee) At the expiration ofthe period mentioned above, his/her seniority willi* frozen. Thus, ifat a later date he or she ceases to be a supervisory or staff worker and the Company desiresto retain his or her services, it is hereby agreedthat reinstatementcan be made within the bargaining unit, provided however that any employee so reinstated must return to the job held at the time of his or her promotion to the supervisoryor staffposition
Page 17
A
Section 1:
a)	Any employee desiringleave ofabsence for any reason other than those set out in Sections 2 and 3 of this Article must obtain same in writing from the Company, a copy of such leave to be forwarded to the Local Union.
^	Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this Section for a period of
longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the Company agreesto notify the Job Stewardand the Union as to the circumstances for the granting of suchperiod of leave
The Companywill grant leave ofabsence to employees sufferingillness or injury, subjectto a medical certificate ifrequestedby the employer. The employee shall report, or cause to have reported, to the Company the injury or ilinesswhich requires his or her absence from the operation. The employee shall have a reasonable period of time to present a medical certificate if requested by the Company.
a)	The company shall grant leave of absenceto employeeswho are appoinledor electedto Union officefor a period of up to and including one(l)year. Further leave ofabsence may be granted by mutual consent. Any employeewho obtains suchleave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completionof his/her term of employmentwith the Union.
b)	The Companywill grant leave of absence to employeeswho are elected as representatives to attendUnionmeetingsandUnion conventions, or membersof any Union Negotiating Committee,in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
cl It is agreedthat before the employee receivesthis Leave of Absence as set forth in clauses a) andb) above, the Company be givennotice in writing (in the case of a) • fifteen (15) calendar days, in the case of b) • five (5) calendar days) by the Union in order to replace the employeewith a competent substitute.
d)	The Orion will make every effort in requestingsuch leaves ofabsence to avoid requests that will unduly deplete the crew in any one departmentwhich will impair production or inhibit the normal functioningof the operation. In such cases, the Union will co-operate with the Company in making such substitute employees available or select alternate delegatesto attend Union functions.
Page 18
Section 4:	CammuionittUnvc
By mutual agreement leave ofabsence will begranted to a maximum of six (6)monthswithout
pay to the employees for compassionate reasons or for education or training or extended vacation
purposes, conditional on the following terms'
a)	That the employee applyat leastone (I) month in advance unlessthe grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application
c)	The Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant or may postpone leave where a suitablereplacemem is not available
d)	That the Company will consult with the Shop Committee in respect of any application for leave under this Section.
e)	The Company will only be obliged to grant leave of absence far educational and training purposes to employeeswho intend to take training that will assist the individual in obtaining skills related to the industry
f)	It is agreed that employees requesting leave of absence for extended vacation during the months June IS to September IS. shall only be granted such leave once every three (3) years, and that a record be keptforthe purpose of rotating suchleaves
The Union agrees it will provide aletter regarding problems which arise from extended vacation applications
To provide for areasonable period of time for extended matemityleave without pay io female employees where there is a valid medical reason
Section 6; Bereavement Leave
a)	When death occurs to a member of a regular full-timeemployee's immediatefamily, the employee will begranted an appropriate leave of absence for which he/she shall be compensated at his/her regular straight-timehourly rate of pay for hours lost f ronrhis/het regular work schedule for a maximum of three days
b)	Pieceworkers who are entitled to bereavement leave shall be compensated in accordance with the principle established in Article IX, Section b)
Page 19
Members of the employee's immediate family are defined as the employee's spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law,father-in-law, step-parents, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grand-children, step-children, sons-in-law and daughter-in-law
<0
Compensable hours under the terms of th;«	hours worked fo
i	p rp ; f i1 lalifying for vacations and for recognized paid holiday? bu*,8"" h*
Section 7:	Jury Duty
Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, Coroner's Duty, or as a Crown Witness or coroner's Witness, on a day which he or she would normallyhave worked, will be reimbursed by the Companyfor the differencebetween the pay received for Jury Duty and his/her regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for his/her regularly scheduled hours of work, It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received for Jury Duty. The employee will be required to fUmish proof of Jury Service and Jury Duty pay received.
Anv nipr.A u/nrtnr whn i« rpfiuifwi tn nerfcrm Jnrv Dutv shall be comDensated for the difl e ) tv e >1 itu o y >ay received or ury Duty and his j' at i di with the principle established in Article XI, Section 2 b)
Hours paid for Jury Duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime
Section 8:
a)	The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes io candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal electivepublic office, for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen
b)	Employees elected cr appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shallbe granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of such office. Municipal office holders, where the term ofpublic office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for conducting Municipalbusiness.
c)	The employee who obtains this leave ofabsence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion ofpublic office.
Page 20
ARTICLE X • VACATIONS WITH PAY
With respect to annual vacations and vacation pay the following provisionswill apply
Section 1:	One to Two Years’ Servlet
The annual vacation for employees with one (l) lotwo (2) year's service covered by this
Agreement shall be two (2) weeks, and the pay therefore shallbe based upon five per cent (5%)
ofthe total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or eighty
(80) hours at the hourly rate ofthe employee's regularjob, whicheveristhe greater.
Section 2:	Two to Seven Years* Service
a)	The annual vacation for employeeswith two (2) to seven (7) years' service covered by this Agreement shallbe three (3) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon seven per cent (7%) ofthe total wages or salary earned by the employeeduring the period of entitlement, crone hundred and twenty (120) hours at the hourly rate ofthe employee's regularjob, whicheverisgrater.
b)	The additional one (!) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Section l herein.
Section 3; Seven to Fifteen Years' Service
a)	The annual vacation for employee with seven (7) to fifteen (15) years' service covered by this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon nine per cent (9%) ofthe total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty(l60) hours at the hourly rate ofthe employee's regularj ob, whichever is greater
b)	The additional one (I) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation periods provided for in Sections l and 2 herein.
Fifteen to Twenty-four Ygarjl Stpylfe
a)	The annual vacation for employeeswith fifteen (I S) to twenty-four (24) years' service covered by this Agreement shall be five weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon eleven per cent (I l%) ofthe total wages or salary earned by :he employee during'the period of entitlement, or two hundred (200) hours at the hourly rate ofthe employee's regular jcb, whichever is greater.
Page 21
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation
provided for in this Section may be taken consecutivelywith the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1, 2, or 3.
Section S:	Twenty-four to Thirty Years' Service
a)	The annual vacationfor employeeswithtwenty-four(24) to thirty (30)years' service covered by this Agreement shall be six (6) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon thirteen percent (13%) ofthe total wages or salary earned by the employeeduring the period of entitlement, or two hundred and forty (240) hours at the hourly rate ofthe employee's regularjob, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additionalone (I) weekvacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutivelywith the vacation periods provided for in Section I, 2,3, or4.
Section 6:	Thirty Year's Service
a)	The annual vacationfor employeeswith thirty (30) years' service covered by this Agreement shall be seven weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon fifteenpercent (15%) ofthe total wages or salary eamedby the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate ofthe employee's regularjob. whichever is greater.
b)	Subjectto the provisions ofSectionS herein, the additionalone (1) weekvacation providedfor in this Section may betaken consecutivelywith the vacation periods provided for in Sections], 2, 3, 4, or5.
Section 7:	Vacation Pav on termination
An employee whose employment is terminated shall receive vacation pay at the appropriate
percentage ofthe wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement in accordance with the
employee'syears of service.
Section S Vacation Time
a)	Vacations for employees shall be taken at such time as mutually agreed upon by the Shop Committeeand the company when quantity and regularityofproduction shall not be impaired.
b)	All eamedvacationmust be taken.
Page 22
Sttliw >• Payment of Vucution P»v
a)	The calculation and comparison ofthe vacation pay amounts developed by the percentage of grosswages method and the hours times the regularjob rate method will be completed and the greater amount paid to the employee within fourteen (14) days of the common vacation pay cut-off or die employee'sanniversary date The Company's present cut-off or anniversary date method shall be continuedunless a change is agreed upon between the Company and the Local Union
b)	Far the purposes of this Article, the rate of the employee'sregular job will be the rate of the employee's regularjob at the date ofthe common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversarydate, is the case may be.
c)	In the case of a pieceworker, the rate ofthe employee'sregular job will be determined by computing the employee's hourly average earnings for the days actuallyworked during the pay period immediately preceding the common cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date, is the case may be
d)	On the date when an employee completes one (l, two (2). seven(7). fifteen®, twenty-four (24). or thirty (30) years' service and where there is a common cut-off date for all employees in the operation, the employee will receive.
i)	In the case of one (1) year, onepercent (1%) of his/her gross earnings between the date ofemployment and the date ofthe last common cut-off date,
ii)	In the case of two (2), seven (7). fifteen (IS). twenty-four(24), or thirty (30) years, two percent (2%) of his/her gross earnings between the date of his/her last anniversarydate and the date ofthe last common cut-off date
Sectiort 10:	Vacation Pav - Percentage of Wages Method
The following shall be considered as days actuallyworked for determining vacations with pay for
an employee after one (I) continuous year ofemployment.
a)	Absence on Workers' Compensation up to a period of one (1) year, pro vided that the employee returns to his or her employment.
b)	Absence due to illnessup to a period of one (I) year, provided that the employee returns to his or her employment The employer shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordance with the terms and conditionsof Article IX, Section 6
Page 23
crow" witr.ccs IX l ion 7
A ij other absence .ly annrnved hv the emDlover in writine sha" be credited towards entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in comoutins vacation Da'
Ir ei for t jmpl , e to qualify for the amount generated by the hours times the regular job rate method, tV lc ye must have work* a minimum nf fiftoon hundred M ‘iflfTi hours in the emnlovee's first vear ur
ii) Where there is a common vacation nav cut u« iw	ui
calculating minimum hours as in i) above, the calculation period shall be from he a 'pda,A’’' year to the cnt.off- date i the succeeding year.
ini Where there is i	c c iti i pay it-ofFdate, for purposes of
calculating minimum hours as in i) above, the calculation period shall be from the emplovee's anniversar- !"	iu msmet aiuuvcismy u«c
in the eurreedino veai
For purposes of computing the requisite hours, the following will be included: i) All hours worked;
Statutory Holiday hours;
ii)
iii
iv)
v)
vi)
Jury d Crown Bereavement leave; Vacation hours;
y;
stilt of an anr.idpn
Time not exceeding one (1) year 9 cog zia i ompensable by the Workers Compensation Board ar
stm-inn ths mnru> of pmnlnvment shall he considered a<s time worked fo- the DUr,''c<* of nnalifi/ino for
>1
it t< his/her employment.
Page 24
'ii) Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of a non-occupatiomt
accident or illness, shat) he considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that at the time of the accident or illness h pi") h 1 on tl p iyi life not] han r (1) e and that hc/she returns to his/her employment. It is understood that the employer may require that the employee provide a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
mi)
Time lost as a result of layoff shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for requisite hours;
ix)	Employees who report to work and who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any such hift fc ( f sc' requisite hours under this Section. Any employee who qualifies for call
tit i a lay Y ill :i dit di this S< tit for eight (8) I or credit for the hours for which wages were paid, whichever is the greater.
x)	All hours worked in more than one (l) division of the parent company as a result oftransfer or layoff
Section 12; Employment Standards Act
Part 4 - Annual Vacation of the Employment Standards Act, S.B.C., 1980, c. 10, and
i:	thereto, except where varied or modified by the provisions herein, shall beco a
t of this Agreement
ARTICLE XI STATUTORY HOLIPAVS
0	All hourly-rated employees who work on New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be paid rate and one half for all hours so worked.
b) In the event one of the above Statutory Holidays falls on a Sunday, the previous Friday or the following Monday shall be observed as the Holiday. In th n t that ie f tl withi d S >ry Hi lid > fall! on a Saturday it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or succeeding Monday as agreed between the Company and the Shop Committee
)
It case of i	to employee where one ofthe Statutory Holidays is observed on his
r her rest day, he or she shall have a day off without pay in lieu thereof at a n H) agreeable time.
Page 2i
Section It
a)	All Hourly rated and piecework employeeswho qualify for the paid holiday under the conditions set out below shall b e paid for the holiday at their regular j ob rate of pay for their paid regular work schedule. The Parties hereto agree that the paid Statutory Holidays shallbe as follows:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Christmas Day
British Columbia Day Labour Day ThanksgivingDay Remembrance Day Boxing Day
Piece v«)rk employees shall receive pay for the Statutory Holidays for which they qualify, based on the daily average earnings for the days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) working days.
All hourly-rated employeesworking on a paid holidayshall receive rate and one-halffoi hours worked on such day in addition to the holiday pay to which they may be entitled.
d)	To qualifyfor Statutory Holidays, an employeemust have been on the company payroll for the thirty (30) calendar days immediatelyprecedingthe Statutory Holiday and must have worked his/her last regularly scheduledwork day after the holiday, unless his or her absence is due to a compensable occupational injury or illness, which occurred within six (6) months of the holiday, or the employee is on authorized leave of absence in accordance with section 2 or 3 of Article IX
e)	In the case of illness or injury, the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
fl Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, the employeemust have worked one (I) day before and one(l) day after the holiday, both of which must fall within aperiod of ninety (90) calendar days.
§yg|lon_3;
a)	In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, and where the Company and Shop committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
b)	At the option of the Company, but whenever possible by mutual agreement with the Shop committee, either Good Friday or Easter Monday shall become the designated Easter holiday, and the Company shall notify its employeesofthe designation at least one (I) week prior to the said holiday.
c)	When a Statutory Holiday falls on a Friday, employees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, by mutual agreement between the Companyand the Plant Committee, may work on the Friday Statutory Holiday at the straight time job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday.
Section 4:	Personal Floating Holiday
This section becomes effective September 1st, 1978 This Personal Floating Holiday is in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day, but this section shall come into operation an its effective date even if Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed
a)	PersonalFloating Holiday
Regular full-time employees will be granted one (1) Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of this Agreement. to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the company, so there will be no less ofproduction
b)	Qualifying Conditions
When the Personal Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his regular job rate of pay for his regular work schedule, subject to the following conditions
i)	A new employeemust have been on the payrollfornot less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday
ii)	An employee will not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence far more than nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury
iii)	An employee shall applyon an approved form at least seven (7) days in advance, for his/her Personal Floating Holiday The employee shall receive notice of the dispositionof his/her request a minimum ofseventy-two(72) hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday
iv)	If an employee is required to work on his/her PersonalFloating Holiday after a definite date has been designated for such a holiday, the employee shall be paid overtimefor such wak at the rate of time and one-half The employee will then be entitled to take the holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon
v)	Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 15th of each contract year will be scheduled by management
Page
vi)	A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on an employee's regular rest day
vii)	Where an employee choose? Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday, straight time rates will apply
ARTfCLE Xn - SAFETY AND HEALTH
The Company and Employees will co-operate to assure safe working methods and conditions and devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon to be provided by the Company
The Management of every operation shall maintain an AccidentPrevention Committee of four (4) to six (6) members according to the size ofthe operation. Members ofthe Committee shall be designated to equal number by the Employees and the Employer. Employee representatives shall be regular employees in the operation with at least one (1) year's experience.
Safety meetings will be held during working hours where possible Employee's time will not be deducted for attending such meetings or investigations into accidents It is recognized that in multishift and in logging operations, meetings will occur outside ofworking hours for certain employees. When meetings take place outside of an employee'sworking hours, he or shewill he compensated at his or her regular hourly straight time rate of pay for the time spent attending such meetings; two (2) hour limit
Effective July I, 1989, an IWA-Forest Industry Safety and Health Research Program will he established on the following general principles:
a)	The Plan will bejointly trusteed
b)	The Plan is to be funded on the basis of an Industry contribution of one-half cent (Vs cent) per hour per employee per hourworked, effective July 1, 1989,
e)	The trustees will be appointed in the first year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish Objectives and operating and administrativeprocedures.
Page 28
ARTICLE vm. r.RTTVANrr procedure
A Grievance Committee shall be elected to consist of two (2) to seven (7) employees elected by the Union members employed in the operation covered by this Agreement Members of this Grievance Committee shall have completed their probationary period with the Company and shall have at least one (1) year's experience in the type ofoperation
Meetings ofthe Grievance Committee shall, except in cases of emergency.and wherever possible beheld outside ofworking hours. In the event that a grievance should arise it shall be dealt with in following manner, without stoppage of work:
Step L:The individual employee involvedwith or without the lob Steward shall first take up the matter with the Foreman directly in charge ofthe work within fourteen (14) days ofthe said grievance
Step 2:If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be reduced to writing by both
Parties when the same employee and the Committee shall take up the Grievance with the Plant Superintendent. If desired the Union BusinessAgent shall accompany the committee
Step 3: If the grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Local Union and the Management
Step 4:If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
gtcjipn.2;
If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage under Steps 2, 3 or 4 within fourteen (14) days after the completion ofthe preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights ofrecourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end The fourteen (14) day limit may be extended by mutual consent of both Parties,
aPTTrr.TT XIV - RIGHT OF REFERENCE
If the two Parties fail to agree upon an interpretation ofthe Agreement, either Party shall have the right to refer the matter to the Joint Industry Committee, hereinafter provided, and if either party does make such reference, the otherParty must accept the reference
Page 29
Section 2:
The Joint Industry Committee shall consist of three (3) representativesselectedby the IWA-CANADA and three (3) representativesselectedby the Employers representedin the negotiations of this Agreement,and the two committeesmay be represented by one or more Parties selectedby them.
Section 3:
When an interpretation of the Agreement has been referredto the Joint Committee,this reference shall be for the period of forty-eight(4S) hours or longer by mutual consent of the Parties to this Agreement IncasetheJoinlCommitteeagreesupon arecommendationorinterpretation,this shall be furnished in writing to the Union involved and to the Employer.
Section 4:
In the event the Joint Committee members disagree, all the facts in the case as found by the Union and the Union matibers of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submittedto theEmployerandto theUnionmembersinvolved. The facts ii the case as found by the Employer and the employer members of the Joint Committeeshall be placed in writing and given to the Union member employeesfor their information
Section 5:
If a satisfactory interpretation of the point in question is not reached, either Party may refer the question to arbitration as hereinafterprovided.
ARTICLE XV - INTERPRETATION AND ARBITRATION
Section I:	Interpretation
a)	In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation of this Agreement, which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by interpretation in the following manner:
b)	Either Party maybe notify the other Party in writing by RegisteredMril on the question or questionsto be interpreted. After receiving suchnotice and statement, each ofthe Parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreter selectedby the Parties.
c)	The Parties agree to	as the Interpreter for the durationof
this Agreement.
d)	In the event the Interpreter named in c) above is unable through illness or absence from
the Province of British Columbia for any reason whatsoever, lo act as Interpreter, the Parties agree that	shall act in Us place
e)	The decision of the Interpreter shall b e final and binding upon the Parties ofthe First and Second Parts.
Section 2; Arbitration
a)	In the case of a dispute arising under this Agreement, except as to Interpretations of this Agreement, which the parties are unable to settle themselves, as set out in Article XIII. the matter shall be determined by Arbitration in the followingmanner
b)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing b) Registered Mail ofthe question to be arbitrated. Mer receiving such notice and statement. each ofthe Parties will then refer the matter in writing to the arbitrator who has been selected by the Parties
c)	The decision ofthe Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the Parties ofthe First and Second Parts
d)	The Parties agree to mutually select a panel of Chairmen for single Arbitration who will am for the duration ofthis Agreement.
e)	If the Arbitrators selected by the Parties are unable through illness or absence from the Province of British Columbia for any reason whatsoever 10 act as Arbitrators, the Parties agree to meet and attempt to select a mutually satisfactory Arbitrator. If unable to select one which is mutually satisfactory, the Parties further agree to request the Honourable Minister of Labour ofthe Province British Columbia to appoint an Arbitrator.
f)	If the Arbitrator finds that an employee has been unjust))’ suspended or discharged, such employee will be reinstated with all his or her rights and privilegespreserved under the terms of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall further make the determination on the amount of lost pay to be paid to the employee
g)	The Parties ofthe First and Second Parts will each bear one-half (one-half) of the expenses of interpretations or arbitrations includingthe salary ofthe Interpreter or Arbitrator plus any stenographic, secretarial and rent expenseswhich may be incurred in respect ofsuch proceeding
h)	Any Arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held in the City of William's Lake or such cthsrplace as may be decided by the Arbitrator.
i)	A Committee shall be established to develop and implement a system of expedited arbitration of grievances. Thechairman ofthisCommitteewill beH AllanHope.Q C The Committee shall report to the parlies not later than December31, 1984
Pag* .> i
ARTICLE XVT - GENERAL PROVISIONS
al The Union will, within sixty (60) days from the date ofthis Agreement, notify the Company in writing ofthe members of the Shop Committee. The Union or Shop Committee will inform the Company in writing when any member change takes place on the said Committee. No member ofthe Shop Committee will be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is carried out.
b)	For the purposes of this Agreement, when the word "Committee" is used it shall mean Shop, Camp, Mill or Plant Committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
c)	Official Union representatives shall obtain access to the Company's operations for the purposes ofthis Agreement by written permission which will be granted by the Company on request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
Section 2:	No Strike Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Union agrees that it will not cause, promote, sanction or authorize any strike, sitdown, sympathetic strike, or other interference with work by the employees except according to the Labour Relations Act (British Columbia)
Section 3:	No Lockout Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Company agrees it will not create or institute any lockout ofthe employeeswith respect to any dispute between the Company and the Union or the Company and its employees except accordingto the Labour Relations Act (British Columbia)
a)	k is agreed that the Union may refuse to handle materialsproduced by a strike bound firm.
b)	The Union shall have the right to respect another Union'slegal picket line geflignSj Working Foremen
Employees outside the bargaining unit will not perform work that is normallydone by employees in the bargaining unit However, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting foremen firm doing work for purposes of instruction, provided by so doing a lay-off ofbargaining unit employees does not result, or in the case of an emergeneywhen regular employees are not available,provided that every reasonable effort is made to find a replacement.
Section 6:	PermanentPlant Closure ■■ Swi-ran™ Pav
a)	Effective July 1, 1982, employees terminated by the company because of permanent closure of a manufacturing plant shall be entitled to severance pay equal to one (1) weeks pay for each year of continuous service and thereafter in incrementsof completed months of service.
b)	Where a plant is relocated and the employees involved are not required to relocate their place of residence or are not terminated by the employer as a result ofthe Plant relocation. they shall not be entitled to severance pay under this Article
c)	Effective July 1, 1982, sixty (60) days notice ofclosure will be provided.
Section 7:	Logging Contractors
a)	The Company will not enter into any logging contract which would have the effect of discontinuing the employment of any regular logging employeewith the Company
b)	The Parties hereto share a mutual interest in the eliminationofunfair labour practices as defined in the Labour Code of British ColumbiaAct
It is acknowledged that the majority of logging is performed by contractors and sub-contractors It is therefore agreed that a Joint Standing Committee be established to review reports ofunfair labour practices whenever they may occur in out area of operations The Committee will consist of three (3) representatives ofthe TWA and three (3) representatives of Industry
It shall be the responsibility ofthe Committee to discuss any instances of an unfair labour practice, as defined under the Labour Code of British Columbia, with the parties involved and attempt to discourage continuation of such practices
The company agrees it will not enter into a contract with a contractor or sub-contractoi who continues to commit unfair labour practicer as defined under the Labour Code of British ColumbiaAct forwhichthe contractor or sub-contractor has been found in contravention of raid Act by the Department of Labour
Section 8:	Welders
Employees employed as Welders who are required to renew their Welding Ticket shall be granted up to five (5) day's paid Leave of Absence to attend school for instruction The Company shall pay the cost of instruction and examination
Page
gection 9:	Balancing of Production
The Union agrees to provide a letter to the Companies setting forth the same wording as agreed to at the Coast.
Section tO:	Planerman Training
It is agreed that the parties to the Agreementwill meetjointly to discuss and Implement a Planerman's Training Program
Section lit Tools
The Company will repair or replace those Tradesmen's tools that are damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties
The Company will make availableTradesmen's tools required upon the introduction ofthe metric system.
During the introduction of equipmentwhich requires the w e of metric tools, the Company will make metric tools availableat no cost, far use by Tradesmen.
Section 17:	First Aid Training
Employees of the Company who, by mutual agreement, train or retrain for Industrial First Aid Certificates, will be compensated in the followingmanner:
a)	The Company will pay the cost ofthe course tuition and materials required by those employeeswho pass the course.
b)	The Company will pay lost time wages to designated First Aid Attendants ABTTrTF. XVIT - FOKFSTKY ENVIRONMENTAL mMMTTTFF
Forestry Environmental Committees shall be establishedby the Companyand the local Union
The details concerning the structure, operation and terms of reference must be agreed to by the Company and the local Union prior to Implementation
ARTICLE XVm ■ HEALTH AND WELFARE Section 1:	Provincial Board of Trustees
Wetdwood of Canada Limited, together with Forest Industrial Relations Limited. the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association. the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations. Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Canfor Limited and the IWA-CANADA, agree to establish one set of trustees for the purpose of developing a common text, a common trust agreement, and a common employee booklet for the six Health and Welfare Plans, covering Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, and Weekly Indemnity
The Parties agree that a Joint Committee, representing Forest Industrial Relations Limited. the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations. Canfor Limited. Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd , Weldwood cf Canada Limited, and the IWA-CANADA, will be established to study the most effective method of administration of the Plans, reporting to the Parties no later than July 1, 1984
Section 2:	Weldwood » IWA Board of Trustees
The Board of Trustees, composed of two (2) members representingJWA Regional Council No I and two (2) members representing the Company, are responsiblefor the administration of the IWA * Weldwood Health and Welfare Plan The Trustees are also responsible for the selection of carrier, funding, adjudication of compassionate appeals, and Health and Welfare problems direct b related io the Plan
Section 3:	Medical
a)	The Company agrees io provide medical coverage for its employees by participating in the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia
b)	The Company agrees to provide Extended Health Benefits, including Hospitalization coverage up to a maximum of $8 SO per day. to its employeesby participating in a plan entered into between the Company and an appropriate carrier
c)	Effective July 1, 1982, a Vision Care program will be instituted to provide payment up to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period for charges incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualifiedto make such prescription Effective July 1, 1995, the maximum will be increased to one hundred and fifty dollars ($150 00) per member or dependant.
Effective July 1 1995, the Physiotherapist/Massage practitioners' limit will Increase by two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per calendar year to a total limit of five hundred dollars($500.00) ;r vb or di it t| .1 i year.
Effective July , 1995, the Chiropractors/Naturopathis Physicians' limit will increase by two hundred dollars ($200.00) per member or dependant per calendar year to a total li i of four hundred dollars ($400.00) per member or dependant per calendar year.
ill___InjtfrqpM Cpv?rqgq
The following coverage will be provided by the Company on an industry-wide basis with a common carrier:
l' Group Life Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
effective July 1, 1994, $50,000.00 effective July 1, 1995, $55,000.00 effective July 1, 1996, $60,000.00
b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
effective Ju! !, 1994, $50,000.00 effective July 1, 1995, $55,000.00 effective July 1, 1996,5 50 000 00
Effective July I. I, the plan will W« Ir	/sfollows
n for S for ide occurring at fork.
-e July 1,1995 the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten dollars ($10.00) f ek so that the be fit :l « ft h d Ithit ii dollars ($439.00) per week for 52 weeks.
Effecm i Ju y I, 1996, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be d by ten dollars ($10.00) per e: s j at i benefit level is four hundred forty-nine dollars ($449.00) per week for 52 weeks.
Effective January 1, 1996, a "No Downs" provision be introduced so that the four f li d ty nit d )it ($429.00) p ;k t will not be reduced by further re is l y U.I.C. of the maximum insurable earnings number.
Page 36
Weekly indemnityrnmmenne frnm rh» fire* rlaw r\fonn<Aant on A th* n'vfh An,, the fi t / where illness results in hospitalization as a bed patient and where work time is lost c e to surgery. Absences due t< the ~mc trtchud w;b be	.....
continuous absence unless the employee returns to full-time work foi a four week period.
The Union agrees that if the Company maintains	pu«	hich
Will moot ths Standard r»miir»mMitc fnr fi.lt	tnnn_____I_________
*	- ---------r------------------—•  p-------------- .f-.-.v.......
plan under the Unemnlovment Insurance Act" the emnlnvees' S/IOth share nf the nreminm reduction is retained as pawmenl in kind in the prmecinnc nf the U/eekJy	p|g^
henefirc
i) Third Party Subrogation
The parties agree to recommend lo the Trustees of the Health and Welfare Plan that effective on the date of ratification of this memorandum a third party subrogation clause be adopted so that the Weekly Indemnity Plan can be reimbursed from damages recovered from a liable third party for illness, injury or income loss. The Plan will be entitled lo recover the full amount of benefitspaid to the member which exceeds 100% of the member's pre-disability gross income. Gross income will be calculated by using the member's regular hourly job rate times (x) 40 hours. Trustees to work out the application and details, including the deduction of legal fees framhe settlement and the execution of a reimbursement agreement
Section 5:	Dental Plan
A Dental Plan will be provided on the following general principles
1) BasicDental Services (Plan A) • Plan pays 80% ofapproved schedule of fees.
ii) Prosthetics, crowns and bridges (Plan B) • Plan pays 60% ofapproved schedule of fees.
ii>) Orthodontic (Plan C) • Plan pays 60% ofapproved schedule of fees (lifetime maximum $2,500.00).
Section 6; General Principles
a)	Premium cost for insurance shallbepaidbytheCompany
b)	Participation in the plan is to be a condition of employment
c)	Any new employee who has not worked in covered employments the last eighteen months will be eligibleto became a covered employee on the first day of the month following completion of the probationary period. However. for such employee coverage for the Medical Services Plan and for the Extended Health Benefitwill applyon the first day of the month following the date of employment
d)	Coveragewill be portable in all units covered by collective agreements between members of Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations. Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp and Timber Lid., Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA, and there shallbeno waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the Industry
e)	Coverage during lay-offwill be provided as follows.
Employees with more than three (3) months' senioritybut less than one (1) year's seniority will be three (3) months.
jj) Employees with one (I) or more year's senioritywill be six (6) months
f)	In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-timeemploymentwhen he/she is employed for 10 working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
Also, an employeewho returns to work for at least one working day and less than 10 working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any layoff coverage to which he/shewas entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-offcoverage
g)	There will be no duplication of Weekly Indemnity and Pension Plan payments
h)	Weekly Indemnity coveragewill be eliminatedfor an employee on an extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence. Section 4: Compassionate Leave, provided however that such employee is eligiblefor Weekly Indemnity coverage on the agreed-upon day of return to work. In order to qualifyfor this coverage the employeemust have returned to his/her place of residence in British Columbiaunless his/her disabilityrequired hinVher to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements of the claims adjudication carrier. In such case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disabilityincurred during extended leave of absence, the Trustees have the right to review certain circumstances
i)	Employeeson extended leaveof absence under Leave of Absence, Section4
Compassionate Leave Will pay their own premiumsfor the Medical Services Plan, Extended Health BeneUt, and Dental Plan, while the premiums for Group Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will be paid by the employer during such extendedleave ofabsence.
ARTICLEXIX- LOHGTERMDISABILirV PLAN
a)	The Plan will become effective July 1,1982,
b)	Effective July 1, 1993, the Plan lobe funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis with contributions of twenty-two cents (22^) per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute eleven cents (1 Ip) and the employee will contribute eleven cents(llp)
Effective January 1.1995, contributions from boththe Industry and the employeeswill be increased by six cents(6p) per hour worked so that contributions will be thirty-four cents (34p) per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industry will contribute seventeen cents (170), and the employeewill contribute seventeen cents (17^)
Effective July 1, 1995, contributions from both the Industry and the employeeswill be increased by a further two and one-half cents(2 '/, $) per hour worked so that contributions will be thirty-nine cents(39£) per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industry will contribute nineteenand one-halfcents(19 '/, () and the employee will contribute nineteenand one-half cents (191/, d)
c)	A Board of Trusteeswill be constituted with equal representationfrom the Union and the Industry, to beresponsiblefor establishing the terms ofthe Plan and the on-going administration
d)	The Trusteeswill select a qualified actuaryto assist them and to ensurethe establishment of actuarially sound reserves to fund the benefits provided by the Plan
e)	The Trusteeswill enterinto aTrust Agreement which will include provision for a procedureto settle any major disputethat may arise with regard to the provisions ofthe Plan
0	Protection Against Withdrawals - Wthdrawing employerto be assessed for both the
employeeshareof the unfunded liability in cares of negotiatedwithdrawal. decertification or relocation closure. Unfundedliabilityformulatobeuniform andbaredon Plan Unfunded Liability divided by the total numberofPlan members(at the time of most recent Plan Valuation) multiplied by the numberofPlan members affected by the withdrawal. Trustees to be directed to amend the participation agreement accordingly
AttTin.E XX - TWA - FOREST INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN
The Parties agree to establish a Pension Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions ofthe
Memorandum of Agreement of the Pension Sub-Committee dated August 17th, 1977.
Section 2;
a)	The Industry contribution to the Pension Plan of one dollar seventy cents ($1 70) per hour per employee per hour worked, which became effective July 1,1988, will be increased by seventy cents (700) per hour, effective July 1, 1992, to two dollarsforty cents ($2.40) per hour per employee per hour worked Effective July 1,1993, employee contributions of ten cents (100) per hour per employee per hour worked will be added to the above contribution rate.
b)	Unfunded Liability* Address the Plan's Unfunded Liability Issue by providing a one-time contribution of forty-four cents (440) per hour on November 1,1994, and an additional one-time contribution offorty-four cents (440) per hour on July 1,1995. These contributions will be based on all IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan hours worked by each of the parties ofthe first part during the 1993 and 1994 calendar years respectively and require no change to the ongoing shared $2.50/hour contribution rate for the term of this agreement
These contributions, if matched by other Pension Plan participatingEmployers, will result in the fallowing projections ofthe unfunded actuarial liability based on contributory hours of47 3 million hours in 1994, decliningto 46 million hours in 1995, and declining by one million hours per year in each succeeding year to 2001, using an 8% interest assumption for solvency purposes, the Revised Mortality Basis, and TriennialValuations
1/1/94	$553 9 million
1/1/95	$461.6 million
1/1/96	$370 3 million
1/1/97	$283 7 million
1/1/98	$228 8 million
1/1/99	$171 2 million
1/1/2000	$111.0 million
These contributions will allow the unfunded actuarial liability to be fully amortized in 7.7 years from 1/1/94 (The amortization period in the PreliminaryActuarial Valuation of December 31, 1993 is 9.1 years from that date).
Page 40
ARTICLE MT- JOB TRAINING
Job Training Program will be in accordance with SupplementNo 2 which is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXD - APPRENTICESHIP TR&ININgROORAM
a) Apprenticeship Training Programs will be in accordance with Supplements No. 3 A and 3B which are attached hereto and form part ofthis Agreement.
t>) When implemented, the Apprenticeship TrainingPrograms shall provide that single
persons undergoing training shall receive their wages, less any sum paid to them by the appropriate Government authorities Married persons shall receive their wages, less the amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to single persons, the intent being that the greater amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to married persons shall not become a benefit to the Company.
c)	In caseswhere the apprentice is in receipt of a subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities, the employer will pay the apprentice, while attending Vocational School, the differencebetween the subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned
d)	Apprenticeship Selection Tests be amendedto provide improved selection criteria as in place in the Southern Interior
ARTICLE XXID - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Section 1:	Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Union not less than six (6) months in advance of intent to institute material changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or laying-off ofemployees.
Section 2:	Severance Pay
Employees discharged, laid-off, or displaced from their regularjob because ofmechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitledto severance pay of one (1) week'spay for each year of service with the Company The amount calculatedunder such entitlementshall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks' pay. This section shall not apply to employees covered by Section 3 b) below
Page 41
S<9tlon 3; Rate Adjustment
a) An employee who io set back to alowerpaidjob because of mechanization, technological change cr automation witi receive the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) monthshe/she will be paid an adjusted rate which wil I be midway between the rate ofhidher regularj ob at the timeofthe setback and the rate of his/her new regularjob. At the end of this six (6) month periodthe rate of his/her new regularjob will apply. However, such employ eeswill have the option of terminating their employmentand acceptingseverancepay as outlined in Section2 above, providing they exercisethis option wilhin the above referred to six (6) month period.
bl	Followingan application of a) above, when an employee is set back to alowerpaidjob
because of an application cf Article VIII • Seniority brought on by mechanization, technological change or automation, he/she will receive the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period ofthree (3) monthshe/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setback and the rate ofhidher new regularjob. At the end of this six (6) month period, the rate of his/her new regularjob will apply.
ARTICLE XXIV • PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION PLAN
Section ti Implementation
The Plywood Job Evaluation program for the Plywood Plant at Merrill & Wagner Divisionshalt be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Supplement No.3 which is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement.
Section h Feint Range and Increment
All jobs in Grade One, the point range of which is 0 to 81, shall be paid the minimum rate for common labour as providedin Article V, Section I d). The point range for subsequentgrader shallbeten(10, i.e. GradeTwo (82-91), Grade Three (92-101), etc. The wage mcrementcurve for the plywood industry is as follows:
Effective	Effective
Grade	lune 15, 1994	lune 15,1995
Level	Per Hour	Per Hour
Effective IvmtlS, W% Per Hour
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26 27
$18.71
18.83
18	96
19	07 J/, 19.26 19.39 -'/j 19.59
19	75 •'/, 19.93 20.11 -V, 20.30
20	46 -V, 20 66 ' 20 88 21.06 -'/j
21	28 21.49-V, 21.71
21	93
22	20 .’A 22 50 J/
22	78 -'A
a3 06	‘
23	34 23 63
23	90 -‘A
24	19-7’

$19.27 -V, 19,39-'A
19.53
19 64 -'A 19.84
19	97 -'A
20	18
20.35
20.53 20,72
20.91 21 08 21 28
21	50-'A 21.69
21.92 22.14
22.36 22,59
22	87 23.18
23	47 23.75
24	04 24 34 24 62 24 92
$19.66 19.78 -‘/2 19.92 20 04 20,23 .'l} 20 37 -'/> 20 58 -'/j 20.75 -'A
20	94 * 21.13 -V, 21.33
21	50 21.70 «'/,
21	93 -'/3
22	13 22.36
22	58 -'A 22.80 -’A
23	04	'
23 32 -V, 23 64 -'A
23	94	'
24	22 -'A
24.52	’
24	83 -'A
25	II 25 42
The general wage increase provided for in Article V, Section I has been incorporated into these rates
Section 3; Red Circle Jobs
Incumbents in job categories for which the rate is reduced as 4 result of job evaluation (hereinafter referred to as "Red Circle lobs") shall continue at the original rate subject to the provisions of the appropriate supplement (Plywood lob Evaluation. Section 10 * Red Circle fobs)
ARTICLE XXV - SAFETY EQUIPMENT
The Company shall replace such equipment at no cost to the employee when these articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair and when they are required by the company or the Workers' Compensation Board.
i)	Aprons
ii)	Hard Hats and Liners
iii)	Eye, Ear and Nose Protective Equipment
Where the followingarticles ofequipment are required to be used by the Company or by the Workers' Compensation Board, the Company shall, at no cost to the employee:
j) Supply new employeeswith the articles of equipment as required.
^ Supply employeesirovingto another department with the articles ofequipment they require and they do not have at the time of the move, and
iii)	Replace articles ofequipment when those articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair.
That is to say
i)	Aprons
ii)	Hard Hats and Liners
iii)	Eye, Ear and Nose Protective Equipment
iv)	Gloves
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all articles of equipmentto be replaced only when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair, otherwise the replacement will be at the expense of the employee.
Where the Company has been supplying safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date of this Agreement it will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
The employer shall make coveralls available and maintain same for use by End Sprayers, Panel Sprayers, Oilers, Filer-Grindermen, Power Husb employees, and Tradesmen.
Page 44
Section 5;
Ail employee who is requiredto wear caulk boots by the Workers' CompensationBoard shall receive annually a one hundred and twenty dollars ($120.00) caulk boot allowance.
f)	if he/she has six (6) months or more seniority. or
ii)	upon obtaining six (6) months seniority
iii)	Seasonal lay-offs shall not interferewith the qualifying period herein ARTTCT-F. XXVI ■ TOOL INSURANCE
The Company at its awn expense shall insure for damage or loss caused by fire, or floodfhe tools of its employees which are required in the performanceof their work This provisionfor tool insurance shall also apply io loss by theft where the tools are stored in a designatedplaceof safety within the control ofthe Company and there is forcible breaking and entering The insurance coverage provided shall be subject io a deductible of $5 0.00 in respect of each employee's claim
ARTTCT-F. XXVT7 ■ FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
Fire fighting Agreement will be in accordance with Supplement No 4 which is attached hereto and forms pan ofthis Agreement.
ARTTCT,F. XX Vm - SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
Section 1; Rtfsponribilify, Implementation. Continuity and Administration
The IWA-CANA0A and Forest Industrial RelationsLimited agree to implement and continue the provisions ofthis Article ofthe Coast Master Agreement and any related Supplemenlsto the Coast Master Agreement as administeredby Regional Council No I ofthe International Woodworkers of Americaand Forest IndustrialRelations Limited shall be responsible for all aspects ofthe program.
Section 2:	Purpose and Method
The purpose ofthe Program shall be the rankingofapplicable hourly-paid categories and placing themin groupsaccording to their relative value withinthe B C Coast Sawmill Industry by using a method of agreed-upon benchmark categories andrelatedjob descriptions
W er n< or g:	changed jobs d not fit an d« .i ig :hn Job e a 'ipti
the Parties agree to group each jcbc by cc.r.pcriccr. tc	v.,h?~
order to keep benchmark job descriptions to a minimum.
The Parties agree that the Details of Agreement as per AppendixNo. I of the Memorandum of Agreement dated February 19, 1992 in respect of Mechanization. Technological Change or Automation will be implemented. Rate increases, if any, will be effectivelune 15, 1992. Noincumbenfs rate shallbe reducedas aresultofthe implementation of this Agreement.
Section 3; Application
a)	SawmillRate Determination shallbe carried out at the LocalUnion "Local Management level in accordance with the provisions of this Article and the provisions of any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement.
b)	Sawmill Rate Determination si ytotlll lyj :g' inth hi
industry except for those categories which have been excluded bj m itual agri.
between the IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limitei
cj SawmillRate Determination shall not supersede existing in-plant agreements, signed on or before November 3,1976, at the Local Union* Local Management level.
Section 4:	Development, Uniformity and Co-ordination
In order to ensure uniform application, the Program shall be developed and co-ordinated by the
B.C. Coast SawmillJob AnalysisBoard, consistingof an equal number of representatives from
the Union and the Industry as follows:
For the Union:
One(l) Officer representing rWA-CANADA and three (3) Officers represenling the IWA Coast Local Ihiais, assisted by one(l) Technical Advisorin the field of lob Analysisemployedby Regional CouncilNo. 1 ofthe IWA
For the Industry:
One (I) representative of Forest Industrial RelationsLimitedand three (3) representatives ofthe B.C. Coast Sawmilllndustry, assisted by one(l) Technical Advisor in the field of lob Analysis employed by Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
Page 46
Sections:	Procedures
a)	The Sawmill Rate Determination Program shall be administered Jointly on a day-to-day basts by the respective Technical Advisors, subject to me approval of the B C Coast Sawmill Jab Analysis Board
b)	Any agreement reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union • Local Management level shall be final and binding on the Parties
c)	If no agreement can be reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union - Local Management level, the matter shall be referred tu the Board
d)	If the Board is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a category rate
clearance application received from the Local Union - Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited in accordance with Section 1 of this Article
Section 6:	Job Analysis Wage Curve
Group
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
9
10
11
13
14
15
16 17
19
20 21 22
23
Effective
June 15, 1994
Per Hour SIS 71 -'A IS 85	‘
19.02 -7, 19 17	*
19 33 -V,
1961
19	88
20	12 -7, 20 40 -V;
20	73 - A 21.11 ■%
21	46 -7’ 2! SI
22	IS -7,
22	52 -7] 22.87 -7]
23	24 -7‘
23 6!	'
23.93 -7, 24 40	'
24	83 -7,
25	27 -7‘ 25.72 ‘
Effective
lune 15, 1995
Per Hour $19 27 -7 19.41 -7
19	59 -7 19.74 -7 19.91 -7
20	20 ' 20.47-7.
20	73
21	01 -7. 21 35 -7'
21	75	‘
22	11 22 47
22	85
23	20 23 56
23	94
24	32
24	65 -V,
25	13	'
25	58
26	03 -7. 26 49 '
Effective June 15.1996 Per Hour $19.66 19 80 -7.
19	98
20	14	'
20 31 -7. 20 60 -7"
20	88 -7’
21	14 -7.' 2143-7.
21	78	’
22	18-7.
22 55	'
22	92
23	30 -7,
23	66 -V’
24	03	'
24 42
24	80 -7,
25	IS "
25	63 -7,
26	09	'
26	55 -7,
27	02	’
The general wage increase provided for in Article V, Section I has been incorporated into these rates.
Section 7:	Incumbents Rate
No incumbent's rate shall be reduced as a result ofthe implementation and/or continued application oftheProgram.
The Parties further agree that details ofthe Sawmill Rate Determination Program may be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end ofeach three (3) month period from the date of this Agreement
The Company will not contract out any work that is performed by employees in the Bargaining Unit at the effective date of this agreement.
Current practices in operations shallbe agreed on with the Local Union in writing. Until such time as agreement is reached the above clause (A) only will apply.
Section 1:
, The Parties hereto agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the rst da of July 1994 to the 30th day ....	...	. .
written notice of contrary mtenttonts given by the Parties. The notice rem'"*'1 validly and sufficient!'' at th* Head Office nf the Partv of the First Part or at the Loca1 urhee or the Locai Officers of the Union, Party of the Second Part, at least four (4) months prior ti-> thf» frvnirv of anv vearlv neriod If n cgrccrr.cr.irccckcd at the cv.p'.rr'vo'’. of ’Nr ,~l and negotiations are i tinned, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time that a sub t A	is reached, or until neaotiations are discontinued by either Part'
Page 4&
Tune 15/94	June 15/95	June 15/96
fira^g6 $19,395	$19 975	$20 375
Parch Line Patcher (Synthetic Patch) SheetFeeder - Lay-up-Line Veneer Stacker Operator PMI Line		
1959	20.18	20 585
Utility / Forklift Operator
Veneer Stacker/ Clipper Operator • COE
19,755	20 35	20.755
Core Feeder/Layup Line Forklift Operator • Finish End Forklift Shipping #9 SheetFeeder
Synthetic Patchline Op/Gun Mtce
19.93	20 53	20 94
Tallyman
Forklift Operator • Veneer Processing
Forklift Operator - Green End Forklift Operator - Finish End and Shipping
Chip-N-Saw Operator • Stud QffBearer
Cradl 10	20.115	20 72	21135
Barker Operator/43"
Log Saw Operator VK #2 Warehouseman
firurttll	20 30	20.91	2133
Forklift Operator/Block Supply Log Saw Operator Glue Mixer
June 15/94
June 15/95
June 15/96
Grade 12	20.465
Core Layer ■ Layup Line Sizing Unit & Grade Line Operator Fork/ift Operator/SupplyJ Steam Chest Asst. Lathe Operator
Grade 13	20 66
Log Saw& Barker Operator
20.88
Hot Press Operator Dryer Operator Sander/T & G/Forklift
Grade 18	21 71
Lay up Line Operator
Grade 26	23	905
Lathe Operatoi
21.08	21.50
21.28	21.705
21.505	21.935
22 36	22 805
24 62	25 11
w-
CATEGORIES IN SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION
June 15/94	June 15/95
Group 1	$18 715	S19.275
Clean-up Piier
Group 2	18.85	19.415
Chip Bin Attendant Sorter Stacker Stick Layer (Some Controls)
June 15/96 $19.66
19 805
June 15/94
June 15/95
June 15/96
Group 3	$19,025	$19,595
Planer Chain Puller BarkerDeck Chaser (Siart/stop controls)
Group 4	19 17	19 745
Planer Chain Puller/Retrim Strip & Lathe Machine Operator ChipperFeeder
End Loader Operator/Planermill
Car Loader
Log Yard Strapper
GraunS	19335	19915
Package Unit Assistant/Recording (Sawmill Drop Sorter)
Eliminator Sorter Bin Operator
Group 6	19.61	20 20
BreakdownHoist/Trimsaw/Pianermill Sorter Stacker Operator #1 & H2 Trimmer (Rotating)
Group 7	19.88	20 475
Tailsasvyer
Double End Trimmer/
Select/Planermill Log Sorter (Bandmill Side)
PlanerFeeder
Automatic Barker Attendant/
24' Cambio
Automatic Barker Attendant/
27" Nicholson
Auto Package Press Operatoi
$19,985
20 14
20.315
20.605
20.885
June 15/94	June 15/95
Group 8	$20 125	$20 73
Forklift Operator
Group 9	20.405	21.015
Planner Feeder-Setup Multiple Log Saw Cut-Off ForkliftOperator/Kiln Cars
Group 10	20 735	21355
Log Scaler/Weighman/
Licensed
ChippingEdger/Circular Gang Saw Attendant
Group 11	21.115	21.75
Equipment Operator-Yard Maintenance Chip'n'Saw Operation
Group 12	21 465	22 11
Log Loader Operator/Cat 966 Log Loader Operator/Cat 980
Group 14	22.185	22 85
Planerman#!
Log Loader/Letourneau (L-20)
Group 15	22 525	23.20
G.S L.A. Grader/Grade Reader Crane Operator/Repair &
Maintenance Responsibility
Group 20	24.40	25 13
Band Headrig Sawyer
June 15/96 $21 145
21.435
21.78
22 185
22 55
23.305
23.665
25.635
Page 54
WAGE SCALE C
NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES
I Trades-Manufacturing
Carpenter
Electrician
Heavy Diy Mechanic
Millwright
Pipefmer/Steamfitter Journeyman (with certificate) Journeyman
Improver (3rd Year complete) Improver (2nd Year complete) Helper (I st Year complete) Helper
Machinist
Journeyman (with certificate) Journeyman
Improver (3rd Year complete) Improver (2nd Year complete) Helper (1st Year complete) Helper
June 15/94
$24,375 23.875 21 185
20 62 20.12 19.85
24.375 23 875 21.28 20 705 20.215 19.945
June 15/95
$25 105 24.605 21 82 21.24 20 725 20 445
25 105 24 605 21 92 21.325 20 82 20 545
June 15/96
S25 605 25 105 22 255 21 66 21 14 20 855
605 25 105 22 36 21 75 21.235 20 955
Welder (Weldwood 101) Welder (DPW# l or #2)
*24.375	'25.105	'25.605
24.18	24 91	25 41
4NOTE: Must be qualified under the Weldwood 101 standard welding specification and either having completed the three year apprenticeship program or have worked in the trade for six thousand (6.000) hours
D.	Filing Room
Benchman (with certificate)	$25 08	$25.83	$26 345
Benchman	24 58	25.33	25 845
Benchman Helper Circular Saw Filer (with	24.375	25,105	25 605
certificate)	24.375	25.105	25 605
Circular Saw Filer	23.875	24.605	25 105
Page
June 15/95
June 1S/94
June 15/96
Saw Filer Helper
Saw Fitter (with certificate) Saw Fitter
Saw Fitter (1st Year complete) Saw Fitter Helper
m. Engineers & Firefighters
2nd Class Engineer 3rd Class Engineer 4th Class Engineer Flrefighter(4th Class Ticket) Firefighter
IV. Miscellaneous
Grinderman Head Oiler Oiler
Yard Bucker
$24.01
24.01
23.51
20.355
19.85
25.515
24.375
23.08
21.50
19.74
21 415 20.54
20.285
21.405
$24.73
24 73 24.23 20.965 20.445
26 28 25 105 23.77 22 145 20.33
22 055
21	155 20.895
22	045
$25,225
25.225
24.725
21.385
20.855
26.805
25.605
24.245
22.59
20.735
22.495
21.58
21.315
22.48S
First Aid Job Rate Plus
Level 2 certificate	50* per hour.
Level 3 certificate	850 per hour.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2
JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS
A. Application
1	The following principles are intended as a guide and basis for negotiations of training programs at the operational level between the Companyand the Local Union.
2	Training positions to be posted for a minimum period of two (2) consecutive working days
3	An employee absent oo approved leave of absence, lay-off, illness or accident <b the time a Trainee Position is posted will be allowed to make application within three (3) working days of his or her return, but in no event lata than fourteen (14) calendar days of the posting of such Trainee Position. However, such employeemay make application through a lob Steward or by written notice to the Company while he or she is away on leave of absence.
C.	Selection and Training
4	Selection oftrainees to be on the basis of seniority, as provided for in Article VIII of the Collective Agreement.
5	The Company should select a qualifiedperson lo provide the training with due regard to ability to communicate effectively
6	The Company lo notify the Plant Committee in writing when a trainee isjudged to be qualified, or if he/she isremoved from the training program because of incompetence
D.	Rates of Pav
7	Rater ofpay to apply to trainees during the training period to be their regularjob rate. except that they shall not receive more than the establishedrate for the job for which they are being trained, and subject to appropriate exceptions for piece work employees
Page 57
K Seniority
8.	Seniority to follow the general principles of Article VIII ofthe Collective Agreement, with special provisions where necessary to deal with special problems ofthe operation.
9.	If, during the training period, the trainee wishes to discontinue training, cr failsto qualify, he or she should return to the job previously held by him/her.
10.	Nothing in this Agreement is intendediovary, cancel, or otherwise affect existing training agreement.
Page 58
SUPPLEMENT N0.3A
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (MERRILL & WAGNER DIVISIONS
and
IWA CANADA. Local 1-425, C.U.C. io eo-noerationwith
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP & INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
ARTTCT-F.T- PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledge and skill ofpersons employed by the Companyas Journeyman, Improvers andHelpers in respect oftrades named in Article II herein
ARTICLE n-TRADES
1	Millwright	4 Year Program
2.	Ray Duty Mechanic	4 Year Program
3	Steamfitter-Pipefitter	5 Year Program
4	Machinist	5 Year Program
5	Electrician	4 Year Program
6	Welder	To be established
ARTICLE m - GENERAL PRINCIPLES Section 1; collective Agreement
All provisions of the Collective Agre-enyent to be applicable to Apprentices in this Program
Page 59
Section 2:	Right to Continue
Once started in the Program, subject however to the provisions ofthe Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he or she passes all ofthe prescribed tests and work is available for him/her
Section 3:	Tests
Upon completion of each period of training in the vocational school, an Apprentice will be required to pass atest In the event offailureto pass such a test, the Apprentice will be given a second opportunity, but in the event offailure to pass on the occasion ofthe second such test, he/she willbe required to withdraw from the Program
Section 4:	Meaning ’’-Y-eal-
Wherever reference is made to ayear as a Helper or Improver, it shall mean a period ofnot less than two hundred (200) working days; the said period to include time spent at the vocational school.
Section S;	Training Time Entitlement
:bj< tc the provisions herein, an App ei ti< who i hii d bj i >mpany and who has had training in another apprenticeship plan will be given recognition of such training time.
Section 6:	On-The-Job Training
The Company will ensure that Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training
Section 7;	Selection Standards
The Parties will meet and develop appropriate tests and selection standards for trades and pianerman categories This will include an opportunity for an employee self-appraisal.
A	----------
Section 1:	Seniority
When the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article VM of the Collective Agreement
Section 2;	Successful Applicants
Successfulapplicantswill be assigned as Helpers for a three (3) month probationaryperiod, unless
the applicant'sprevious experience renders such assignment unnecessary
Section 3:	Selection of Apprentice Procedure
a)	Purpose: The purpose of this Agreement i s to establishan equitable criteriawhich will give management reasonable assurance that the Apprentice, upon completion of his or her indentureship, will become a proficienttradesman, and to assure the Union and its membersthat the senior applicant who meets the criteria will become an apprentice
b)	Educational Prerequisites'. The educationalrequiremenl for general trades is Grade 10 or equivalenland Grade 12 or equivalent for the electricaltrades
c)	Aptitude Testing; ApplicantswiUbetestedinaccordancewiththebankoftests as recommended by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour Testing procedureswill be as follows
i)	A standard set oftesting instructions and procedures will be developed and authorized by the Parties to this Agreement and communicatedto appropriate Management and Union personnel
ii)	The passing grade for the tests will be established by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour,
iii)	The passing marks for the Mechanical Trades and Electricaltests are establishedas being a combined requirement of, firstly, seventy(70%) in the Mechanical Aptitude and SpaceRelations segments of the tests, and secondly, sevenlyper cent (70%) in the overall final scoring ofthe tests
iv)	All scoring computationsof percentages in each section and overallscores ofthe tests are recorded as being rounded off to the next highest percentage point where any fraction of a percentage point exists.
v)	Tests will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by Management, aUnionrepresentativewillbe present when the tests are given and marked.
vi)	Tests recommended for the self-evaluationwili be made availableand may be taken by an interestedemployee. Failure to take suchtests shall not jeopardize an employee's applicationfor any apprenticeship.
d) BsIgtimK
jj It is agreed that where an Applicant has failedto pass the Mechanical
Aptitude and Space Relations section of eitherthe Mechanical or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-tested one (1) additional time for each test.
jj)	Results of all tests will be retained on tile in the company's office. An
applicant who has net the criteriaendsuccessfullypassedthe requisitetest and is the senior for any future apprenticeshipposting within a three (3) year period, will be considered the successful applicant.
iji) An applicant who qualifies and has passed the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations sectionof any of’the available tests, but Med the overall test will be eligible to bid and be re-testedfor any future apprenticeship posting.
jv) A master copy ofthe tests will be made available to rWA-C ANAD A on request.
e) MfliPifPftSct. Monitoring' and Distribution ofTtsU
j) Sufficientcopies of the tests, answer sheets, and marking overlayswillbe maintainedby Weldwoodof Canada Limited, Vancouveroffice and/or the ApprenticeshipBranch of the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia.
jj) Test materials will be supplied pn request to those operations requiring same and will be retumedlmmediately after use.
jit) Use ofthe tests will be imitated by Weldwood. of Canada, Vancouver office and/or the ApprenticeshipBranchofthe Ministry of Labour ofthe ProvinceofBritish Columbia. Such monitoring will maintain a record of applicants'tests, successfulapplicant'sscoresrecorded, seniorityapplied. and provide a follow-upof the successfulapplicant's progress throughout training and an appropriate post trainingperiod. Other informationas deemed necessary by the Parties to this Agreemenlwillbe made available as agreed.
0 firgfrlfltUtP3Ey.faElttifo The successfulapphcantwillbe given a probationary penodup to ninety (90) calendardays.
Selection Review. Where a dispute arises out of the selection of an apprentice that cannot be resolved at the plant level, the matter will be discussedby Management and the Local Union.
Page 62
h) Trial Period- This agreement is for a twelve (12) month trial period, fromthe date of this agreement. EitherParty may terminate this agreemenlupon one (I) month'swritten notice after the completionof the eleventh month.
Section 4:	Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpers and Improvers employed by the Company must enter the Program Helpers and Improvers who cannot qualify in this Program will be reclassified as labourerswith no reductioninrate of pay until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniorityto obtain a job with an equal or a higherrate of pay
Labourers will not be employed in a manner that will interferewith the applicationof the Program.
Section S:	Age Limit
There will he no age limit for applicants APTTfT.TTV. TRATNTNCTSCBEPm.ES Section j:	Assignment a» Helper
All successful applicants, except Welder Apprentices (see appropriate appendix), will be registered as Apprenticesandhe assignedasHelpersforaneleven(I I) month period, prior to attending vocational school, unless the applicant' sprevious experiencerenders such assignment unnecessary
A programfor the aforementioned Welder Apprenticeswill be established by lune 1 st, 1968
Section 2: S Year Schedule	Ratine	At Oneratlon	At School
First Year	Helper	First 11 months	Last 4 weeks
Second Year	Helper	First I I months	Last 4 weeks
Third Year	Improver	First I I months	Last 4 weeks
Fourth Year	Improver	First 11 months	Last 4 weeks
pifth year	Improver	First 11 months	Last 4 weeks
4 Year Schedule
First Year	Helper
Second Year	Helper
Third Year	Improver
Fourth Year	Improver
3 Year Schedule
Ratine
First Year	Helper
Second Year	Improver
Third Year	Improver
Electricians
At Operation At School
First I I months First 11 months First 11 months First 1 \ months
Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks
At Operation At School
First 11 months First 11 months First 1 i months
Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 2, 3 and 4 herein, the ElectricianApprentices shall be requiredio take eight (8) weeks at school during each year of the Program instead offour (4), with the period in the operation reduced accordingly.
Section 6:	Passing Teat
The Apprenticemust successfullypass the prescribed test before promotion fromHelper to Improver
Section 7:	Journeyman Qualification
"Subject io the conditions of this section as listed below, it is agreedthat Following completionof the period of requiredtraining and upon becoming certified, thejoumeymanshall receive the certified joumeyman'srate ofpay."
Conditionsunder which the above will apply:
a)	Only to ajoumeymanwho has gone through the indentured apprenticeshiptraining
programunder the sponsorship of the Company for which he/she is working
That he/she is working in the MainlenanceDepartment
That all work normally done by the maintenance departmentis being performedby the persons employedinthe maintenance department.
Page 64
d)	That nothing in this clause shall prohibit the laying off ofjoumeymen, helpers or apprentices if they are not required.
e)	That ajoumeymanmay, when facing lay-off choose to exercise his/her seniority into categories outside of the maintenancearea at the job rate if his/her seniorityand ability entitle him or her to do so
Section 8:	Vocational School Delay
If any ofthe periods provided forin Sections2, 3, 4 or 5 herein are exceededby reason of
vocational school faciliti e sbeing unavailable, such penodof excess shall be credited to the Apprenticed succeedingtrainingfequirerncnts.
ARTICLE VI - WAGE RATES
Section I; Rate* and Increments
a)	Wage Rates forHelpersinthe first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement.
b)	An Apprentice who passes his or her test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during this second term year as a Helper.
c)	The Wage Rate for an Improver shall be that asspecifiedin the Wage Supplement
d)	An Apprenticewho passes a test in the fourth period ofvocational training shall receive an increment agreed to between the Companyandthe Union during his/her second term as an Improver.
e)	Persons employedas Journeymen, and who are certifiedas such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade as agreed to between the Companyand the Union
Fares, Lost Time Pay and School Expensesare to be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as part of the cost of the ApprenticeshipPlan. with the exceptionthat the employe) shall pay the Apprentice while attending Vocational School the differencebetweenthe subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regularwages of the employee concerned
Married persons shall receive their wages, less the amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to singleposcns: the intent being that the greater amount paid by the Provincial Government authoritiesto married persons shallnotbecomea benefit to the Company. Incases where theApprentice is in receipt of a subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities, the employerwil) pay the Apprentice while attending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted bythe appropriate Federal Government authorities and the regular wages ofthe employeeconcerned.
Section 3:	Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one ofthe tests under this Program, through no fault of his/her own, the delay shall not prejudice his/her right to wage incremenlsprovidedforin Section I herein.
ARTICLE VU - ADVISORY BOARD Section Is Constitution;
There shall be an AdvisoryBoard for each trade coveredby the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two (2) represenlativesofthe Industry, two (2) from theUrim, one (1) representing the Vocational School and one (1) from the Apprenticeship and IndustrialTraining Branch
Responsibility
The Board shall be responsible for advising the Department of Labour, Apprenticeship and IndustrialTraining Branch, regarding the contend cf tests, standardsof marking and the school curriculum with respect to the registered Apprentices. The B oard shall not be responsible for the actual setting or markingoftests
ARTICLE vm - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section t;
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who db not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employedas Journeymen.
Section 2:
Persons employed as Journeymen, who take the TradesmenQualificationExam and fail, shall continue to be employedas Journeymen.
Section 3r
If apresenl Joumeymanfailsto pass the test for a voluntary TradesmerisQualificationCenificate, he/she can thenbecome indentured as an Apprentices! no reductionin rate of pay.
Page 66
There will be a three person committeeestablishedto process applicants who make applications betested under the voluntary Tradesmen'sQualification,or who become indenturedunderthe Apprenticeshipand Tradesmen's QualificationAct. The committeewiU also determine what vocationaltrainingisnecessaryforpersons indenturedas Apprentices. Representation on the committee shall consist of the following:
a)	One (1) representative from the Union.
b)	One (1) representative from the Industry.
c)	One (1) representative from the ApprenticeshipBranch
Vocational training will be conducted during day courses Textbooks and study material will be made availablewhen required
ARTICLE IX-TOOLS
All JoumeymanTradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not quahfyfor the Journeyman rate unless they have, a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform thejob for which they are hired with the exception of machinery cr tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibilityofthe Journeyman
The Improver shall be requiredto have and maintain a basic too! kit and to be in the general process of building_up thenecessarytodsto equip him/berself forthe job
Smtoi;
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools, and shall use those designatedto him/her However, in his/her own interest, he/she shouldcommence the process ofbuilding up a tool kit
SUPPLEMENT NO, 3B
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
in respect to the
Trades of Filing' and Fitting
BetweemWELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (MERRILL & WAGNER DIVISION)
AndtlWA CANADA,
Local 1*425, C.L.C.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
l.	Plan “A" « Saw Fitter's Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of Saw Fitterwhich is defined as follows
To be competent to fit all types ofsaws,circularsaws. band saas,gang saws, chainsaws, etc
0 Operate, repair and adjust all saw sharpeningequipmentand tools t>)	Basic techniques in welding of saws
C)	Maintain guides and water lines
^ Basic techniques in benching ofcircularsaws, slashers and trim saws
Note; It is agreed that the Parties will not usethe training programto change the job content of the jobs cf the present saw fitters
Plan "W - Circular Saw Filer Annrenticftshto Training Program
To cover the trade of a circular SawFilerwhichis definedas follows:
Must be qualifiedSaw Fitter and be competent to bench all circular and gang saws (tensioning, weld cracks and weld on teeth); be able to repair and maintain all filing room equipment; also must have a working knowledge of allied mill equipment, only as it appliesto his/her job.
Page 68
Plan "C1*» Bgnitiman Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of a Benchman which is defined as follows
Must be a qualifiedSaw Fitter and Circular Saw Filer, in addition be able to bench circular and band saws Must have working knowledge of all allied sawmill machinery including the lining up ofheadrigs and grinding of band wheels.
2	TheParties agree that the object of the above Plans is to improvethe knowledge and skill ofpersons employedas filers and fitters in the industry.
3.	The normal period aftrainingwill be:
Safety is an important part of the training program as outlined below, as such, it forms an integral pan of each phase ofthe Program.
a)	Saw Fitters
Pre-Apprenticeship Training* InPlantthree(3) months 1st term:
(a)	3 weeks at school, depending on size class - then writes an examination
(b)	II months in-plant training,
2nd term
(a)	3 weeks at school • then writes an examination
(b)	8 months in-plant training 3rd term
(a)	3 weeks at school - then writes an examination • if he/she passes the test,
he/she becomes certifiedas a SawFitter
b)	Qifcylar Saw Filers
Must spend a minimum of three (3) months in-plant training as an Apprentice Circular Saw Filer.
lstterm:
(a)	4 weeks at school - then Writes an examination.
(b)	8 months in-plant training.
2nd term:
(a)	2 weeks at school, thenwntes an examination- lfhe/she passesthe test,
he/jhe becomes a Certified Circular Saw Filer.
c)	Benchman
Must spendaminimum of three (3) months in-plant training as an Apprentice Benchman.
1st term:
(a)	3 weeks at school - then writes an examination
(b)	11 months in-plant training 2nd term'
^	2 weeks at school-then writes an examination- if he/ she passes, he/she
becomes a Certified Benchman.
Note; The above periods ofin-school trainingmay be alteredby mutual agreement, subjects the experiencein the Industry and in consultationwiththe ApprenticeshipBranchofthe Department of Education.
4	All provisions of the Collective Agreement will be applicableto Apprenticesin the Plan
5	Once started in this Plan, the Apprentice, subjecthoweverto the provisions of the Collective Agreement, will have the right to continue in any one program providinghe/she passesall of the prescribed tests and work being available to him/her,
Page70
b a) Upon completion of each period of training in the Vocational School, an
Apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to pass a test I n the event of a failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice Saw Fitter will ^egivenasecondopportunity. but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he/she will be required to withdraw from the Plan Any Saw Fitter Apprentice who fails to quality at any stage of the Program will be allowed to apply his/her seniority as it is applied in a lay-off On completion of the third period of training in Vocational School, an Apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to pass a test On parsing the test, heishewill become a Certified Saw Fitter
b)	On completion ofthe first period oftraining in Vocational School, an Apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be required to pass the test. Int he event ofa failure to pars the test, the Apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure lo passed the occasion of the second such test, he/she will be required to withdraw from the Program and returnto the position ofa Saw Fitter
On completion ofthe second period oftraining in Vocational School, an Apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be required to pass a test On passing the test he/she will become a certified Circular Saw Filer In the event that heishe fails to pass the test, he/she will be given a second opportunity I He/she passes the test or the second occasion, he/she becomes* Certified Circular Saw Filer Should he/she fail to pass the test on the second occasion, heishewill be requiredto withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that ofa Saw Fitter
c)	Upon completion ofthe first period oftraining in Vocational School. an Apprentice Benchmanwill be required i o pass a test In the event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice Benchman will be given a second opportunity. but in the event ofafailure to pass on theoccasionofthe second test, he or she will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position of Circular Saw Filer
On completion of the second periodof training in Vocational School, an Apprentice Benchman will be requiredto pass a test On passingthe test he/she will become aCertified Benchman. In the event that he/she fails to pass the test, he/she will be given a second opportunity. If he/she passes the test on the second occasion, he/she becomes aCertified Benchman Shouldhe/shefail to pass the test on the second occasion, he/she will be requiredto withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that of a Circular Saw Filer
7 Wherever reference is made to a year as an Apprentice, itwill mean a period ofnotless than two hundred (ZOO) working days, the said period to include time spent at the Vocational School In the event a participant works less than two hundred (200) days and has attended Vocational School within the year, he/she may be given the opportunity to take the required test.
8- Subject to the provisions in, an nice v, id be entitled to recognition of training time in the Plan in the event of his/her moving from one employer in the Industr- to another.
SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
a)	Present t who are employed full-time will be indentured in the Program.
Upon entering the filing room, spates wiii be inuemuieu miu ihc Appi :i shi I subject to the limitations of General Principles, Point 5 contained herein.
Subject to General Principles, Point 5, trainees will be allowed to complete their program to meet the requirements of the Operation in which they work
Saw Fitter Apprentices It is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article VIII - Seniority
Circular Saw Filer Apprentices; It is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operati and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions nf Artirip vm . Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Sav Fitters.
Benchman Annrentic n	It if	a el that the va< will be posted in the	> and
applicants selected in a :<	dan i Article VII	- xiority. Applicants r	$1	be
Certified Circular Saw Filers.
Present Si	, 2 c il Saw Filers, and Benchmen employed in the Industry who do not
wish to b< o nec< ?h»ll not havetl ii *ni< h ri jh p ji di 1 il b 1; i f certific tii i.
Present Saw Titters, Cirf"!* Saw Tilers and Benchmen will have the right to write a dualifvine ii t	in the	r	tr .ssification.	If they pass the examination, i it hall receive the
Lpp »p ii ifi	rate	If	* fail tl	ii u tit , they shall be slotted into the appropriate
»chin nrnnrvn mith the i>i*w try nnomdirur and mentnallv hpr-nmino certified Sh( 'Id
they fail as Der the steos outlined in 6a b) ir;) they will be subject to the provisions outlined therein.
Page 72
Present tradesmen who write the Tradesmen QualificationExaminationwill be tested on the basis
ofthejob content ofthe present jobs in the filing room in which they work
ADVISORY BOARD
I	There will be an Advisory Board consisting of two (^representatives of the Industry, two (2) from the Hum. one (1) representing the Vocational School and one (]) from the Apprenticeship Branch.
2- The Board will be responsible for advising the appropriate school authorities, Department of Education an Department of Labour regarding the content of tests, standards of marking and the school curriculum
3	The Board will not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests
OUTLINE OF TEE FILER'S AND FITTER'S TRATNTNO PROGRAM
Instruction Breakdown Weeks
Work Involved
Fitting bandsaws and gangs 3	Reasons for swage Swage and shaper adjustment
Reasons for crumble, etc Tooth profile Tooth alignment Sharpener operation Setting and sharpening	saws Automatic and hand
gumming	shaping and sharpening
circular, rip saw5 Automatic and hand sharpening Spring set circular rip saws Sharpening and reloothing Insetted tooth cut offand rip
Grinding Wheels Instruction of types, dressing, etc
Page 73
Review of lit year school 3 training.
Repair and adjust equipment used by a fitter.
Ail phases of filing room welding (acetylene)
Theory and practical
Ail phases ofcbainsaw filing.
Carbide (tipping and dressing only)
3rd Term:
Review 2nd Term	■
Preliminary circular saw instructions
Capable of hammering
slashers, trim saws
Guide maintenance On handsaws. Straight and pressure Shear board setting.
Wheel scrapers
Welding
As last year
Gauge setting Flame adjustment Tip Size Torch handling Penetration Weldingcracks.
Preparing seats Brazing m carbide Teeth- dressing
Levelling, anvil tensioning, plumbing
Theorv
Water lines Point build up Tooth replacement
Benchingof welds.
CIRCULAR SAW FILER'S 4PPRF.NTTCF.SHTPpnocBAM
To become proficientin	4
hammering all circular saws, rip and cut off, used in sawmill planer
2nd Term:
Benchinggangsaws stretcher 2 roll and heat
Filing room machine
maintenance
Be able to maintain and
repair all tiling room
equipment.
Trouble shooting of circular saw machinery
Level and tension, plumbing All circularsaws and including hollow ground (theory 108 cut off)
Thin Edgers Carbide Double arbour ReviewofBaric ShopMathematics.
Levelling tension Check tabs
Theory
BENCHMAN APPRENTICE SHI PPROfdR AM 1st Term:
Complete bandsaw • bench work (roll stretcher and heat)
Strain calculations Welding
Leamalignment of mill machines; head rig. edger. resaws, trim, cut-off, ea.
Band mill wheel grinding
Work Involved Bench bandsaws in entirety Stretcher roll and heat Further training Theory
2nd Term:
Saw Capacity Study	2	Theor5'
Feeds, tooth bite Gullet capacity Saw speeds Tooth spacing (circular and band)
Trouble shooting
Page 76
SUPPLEMENT NO. 4
PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
1.	PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
The implementation and administration ofthe Job evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles and procedures sei out in a Manual dated September, 195 5 and entitled "Job Evaluation Manual for Operational Hourly Paid Jobs in the Plywood Industry of British Columbia" as amended July,. 1966 and as further amended April, 1971 (herein referred to as the "Manual").
2.	INDUSTRY JOB EVALUATION COMMITTEE
There shall be a committee constituted and named the Industry Job Evaluation committee (herein referred to as the "Plywood Evaluation Committee") to consist of one (]) member representative of Forest Industrial Relations Limited and one (1) member representative of Regional Council No. I, International Woodworkers of America
3.	FUNCTION QFPT-YWOOD EVALUATION COMMITTEE
a)	The Plywood Evaluation Committee shall assume general	responsibilityfor the
administration of thejob evaluation program
b)	The unanimous decision ofthe said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto
4)	PLANT JOB REVIEW COMMITTEE
There shallbe a committee constituted in each plywood plant named the Plant lob Review Committee (herein referred to as "Review Committee")to consist of two ©members representative ofthe employees At least one (I) representative of Management must be a member ofthe plant's salaried staff or Management, and at least one (I) representative of the employees nust be an employee ofthe plant whose job is subject to Plywood lob Evaluation Management may choose their second representative from amongst perrons not employed at the plant, and Union may do likewise, except that neither Party may choose as its representalive a member ofthe Plywood Evaluation Committee, or any person who is employed as ajob evaluator by Forest Industrial Relations Limited or by Regional CouncilNo. I ofthe Internationa! Woodworkers of America
b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourlypaid employees fortime lost while acting
as a member ofthe Renew Committee or while presenting information, regarding his or her ownjob. before a regularly convened meeting ofthe Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourlypaid employees.
Pag« 77
5. FUNCTION OF REVIEW COMMITTEE
aj The Review CommitteewiH be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or
re-evaluationofjobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Plywood Evaluation Committee for furtheraction. Thedocumentsrequiredwill includea "Requestfor lobEvaluation" form submitted either by an individual employee or by Local Management, and a fully completed Job Description which provides sufficient information for the subsequentwork ofthe Plywood Evaluation Committee The form of the documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them, and the time limits for completion may be amendedas required by the Plywood EvaluationCommittee under the authority given them by Article 3 of this Supplement.
^	Decisions of the Renew Committee respecting the appropriatenessof a request far
evaluation or reevaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreementwithin the establishedtime limits, the Review Committee shall, at the request of anyone of its members,immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, togetherwith any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement, to the Plywood EvaluationCommittee, and shall then have no furtherresponsibilityfor documenting that request.
When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job, it shall communicate its decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committeewill be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, givingreasons for the outcomewhere these are available. A decision ofthe Review Committeethat an application for lob EvaluationCommitteeshouldnotbe forwarded to the Plywood Evaluation Committee,will, similarly, be communicatedwilh reasons to those concerned.
Nothing in this Article limits the right ofthe Plywood Evaluation Committeeto determine the facts about anyjob, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend ajob description or specificationsubmittedto them in support of a Request for lob EvaluationForm
6. APPLICATION of program
The lob Evaluation Program shall apply to all employees in the Plywood Industry except Jo y Tradesmen, Improvers and Helpers and Powerhouse Boom Crews, Oilers and Grindermen.
Page 78
7. DIRECTION OF WORK
lob Evaluation Descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requiremenlsofthejob and shall not be construed as imposing any restrictionon the right ofthe Company to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that is the assignment of such duties changesthejob content sufficientlyto justify areviewofthe evaluation, the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure set out herein
S.	RE-EVALUATION
a)	Whenajob has moved to another grade as a result of re-evaluation, the wage rate for the new grade shall be effective on the date that Management or the employee has applied to the ReviewCommittee for re-evaluation.
b)	When a job is moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his job rate as a red circle rate subjectto the provisionsof Paragraph 10 herein
9.	NEW JOBS CREATED
Where the Company has exercisedits right to create a newjob, atemporaryrate shall be set by Management The permanent rate for the saidjob as determined by the Plywood EvaluationCommittee shall be effectiveas of the date thejob was installed Ifthe evaluatedrate for a newjob is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbent(s) shall be allowed to continue at the temporary rate
10.	RED CIRCLE JOBS
a)	The company shall supply the Union with alist of employeesholding red circlejobs, the said list to include the name ofthe employee, name of job category filled, the evaluated rate for the j ob and the actual fate paid.
b)	Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate is subsequentlyfound incompetent to conlinueinthe higher grade
c)	Employees holdingred circlejobs who are demoted duringareductionof forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for thejob lo which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is re-assignedto his or her formerjob, he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate
d)	When the Company terminates ajob. orajobisnotoccupiedduringaperiodofone(l) year, a record as to the cancellationofthe applicablejob descriptionand classification shall be established
ej If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request ofthe Company, he/she shall retain his/her existing rate cr receive the rate for the newjob, whichever is higher. On return to his/her regularjob, the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
11.	SENIORITY
a)	Subject to the provisions here set, Article VIII • Seniority shall continue to apply
b)	Promotions shall be made only where a vacancy exists.
12.	REFERRAL procedure
.) When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review Committee.
When an employee's request for re-evaluationresults in no change being made in the job grade, or in a reduction, or when a Managementrequest results in no change, or in an increase, the Plywood Evaluation committee shall give to the appropriate Review committee a short statement ofthe reasons for the decision. The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficientdepth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention
An evaluation done by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties, but at anytime after five (5Jyears since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of ajob, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of thatjob and no other reason than the elapsedtime shall be necessary.
If the Plywood Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the lob Evaluation Program which fallswithin theirjurisdiction, the matter shall be referred to Forest Industrial Relations and to the IWA Regional Council for settlement
All communication between the Plant Preview Committee and the Plywood Evaluation Committee referred to above shall be effected by rending one copy to the Union representative or representatives on the Committeeand one copy to the Employer representative or representatives. In the case ofcommunications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care ofthe office ofthe appropriate Union Local, and the Employer representative care ofthe Company's Offices at the Plant. In the case of communications to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care ofthe Offices of Regional Council No. 1 of the IWA, Vancouver, and Forest Industrial Relations Limited
13. TRAINING
A program of training for members of the Review Committee it each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by Forest Industrial RelationsLimited an(] die IWA Regional Council
SUPPLEMENT NO. 5 FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
The followingterms and conditions shall be applicablefor the duration ofthe current Collective Agreement during "CompanyResponsibilityFires".
It is understood that the terms of this Agreementoniy apply to the employeesin the employ ofthe Company at the time the fire started. Any person hired for fire fightingafter the start ofthe fire will work under the rates and conditionsas requiredby the B.C. Forest Service.
i.	nEFmmofts
a)	Accidental Fire
Any fire not deliberatelyignitedby the Companyto dispose of slash or waste. and which requires active measures to extinguish.
b)	Slash Escape Fire
Any slash tire ignited by the Company which has escapedthe pre-determined boundaries and requires active measures to extinguish
c)	Slash Control Fire
Any slash fire ignitedby the Company which contained within the pre-determined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control and does not require active measuresas contemplated in a) and b) above
Any firewhichthe Companyis responsiblefortakingmeasuresto extinguishpursuant to the provisions of the Forest Act
e)	Forest Service Fire
Any fire in respect ofwhichtheB C. Forest Service accepts responsibility fordirectionof measures to extinguish.
f)	Fire Fighting Rates
The rates of pay for fighting Company Responsibility Fires hereinafter set out inthis Agreement.
Page 82
g)	Regular Job Rates
Rates ofpay to employees for the performance of their regularjobs, as set out in the Wage Supplement of the Collective Agreement
h)	Statutory Rates
Rates ofpay establishedbyB.C. Forest Servicefor fire fighting
2.	COMPANY CONTROLLEDTTMER
a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Company employeesto right fire on Company controlledtimber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled timber which is threatening Companycontrolledtimber. the Company will pay those employeesat the fire fighting rates set out in Section3 of this Supplement
b)	WheretheBC Forest Servicedirects the Company to provide its employeesfor fighting fires in circumstances other than those set out in a) above, those employeeswill be paid at the statutory rate
3.	FTRF. FIflHTINR RATES
a) The basic rate shall be $19 425 per hour effectiveJune 15, 19 94, and $20 0! per hour
effectivelune IS. 1995, and $20.41 per hour effective June 15, 1996 and shall apply to all employees engagedin fighting Accidental or SlashEscape fires, except those performing one of the followingfirefightingjobs.
Category
CrewBoss	$21 66
Cat Operators	21.095
Skidder Operators	22 565
Power Saw Operator (own saw)	22 895
Mechanics/Heavy Duty MechanicsRegular Job Rate Slip-onTankand/or Trailer Tanks with Pump-Driver/
Operator	21.095
Water Tank Truck with Pump Driver/Operalor	20 31
ServiceTruck/Bus Driver	19 425
Pumpman	19 765
S22 3I 21 73 23 24
23 58
21 73
21 95 20.01
20 36
$22 755 22 16 23 705
24 05
22 16
22 39 20.41 20 765
Page S3
b)
C)
d)
4.
a)
b)
c) 56.
a)
b>
8.
9.
Straight time rates will apply to all employeesthroughout the period during which the said employees are engaged in fire fighting. This shall not include cook and bunkhouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanicsor other categories servicing, feeding or supplyingfire fighters from areas removed from the area ofthe fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day in question are exclusively related to fire fightingoperations
Regular) ob rates will apply only for the duration ofthe regular production shift in which the fire started
Where employees are working in job classificationsduring fire fighting. other than those set out herein,job rates will apply.
BOARD AND LODGING fWhiie Fighting Company ReiBonsibiiifv Fires)
Employees who commute from home or camp are expected to "carry a lunch'. Additional meals where required will be at Company expense.
Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
Employees living in fly camps will receive board and lodging at Company expense. TRAVEL TTME
Travel time for employees engaged in fire fighting will be paid h accordance with the Collective Agreement.
SLASH BURNING
All employees engaged in patrolling or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regular job rate and overtime conditions will apply
INTERPRETIVE NOTES
W n :ti fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtime conditions for fire .t >1 ill ij o f rt' i! di ii id J f< it tf Coll :ti -	t.
The meaning ofthe work "extinguish"as used in this Agreement shall include the act or process of suppression to the point when the fire requires fire patrolman only.
Ail provisions ofthe Collective Agreement except as amended or modifiedherein shall continue to apply.
The Company and the Union are prepared to participate in joint submissionsto the Provincial Government on statutory firefighting rates
Page 84
SUPPLEMENTNO. 6 PENSIONPLAN
The parlies agree that they will recommend to their representatives on the Board of Trustees of the IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan that the Plan be amended as follows
t.	Five Year Vesting
Effective July I, 1992, when a Member attains five years of Continuous Employment, (as currently defined in the IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan), or attains age 60, he will be vested for all his Credited Service (includinghis Credited Service earned prior to July I, 1992).
2.	Pre-Retirement Death Benefit
Effective July I, 1992, the Plat will pay 60% of the Commuted Value of the vested Member's or Former Member's total accrued pension
The Commuted Value for those Members who were eligibleto retire under the plan on their date of death will reflect the value of the pension they would have received had they retired on their dateofdeath
A pension having a Commuted Value equal to 60% of the Commuted Value of the Member's vested pension will be paid to the Spouse or, if no Spouse. 60% of the Commuted Value will be paid tu the designated beneficiary or estate Spouses may transfer the cash value of their pension on a lacked-in basis to another pension plan, an RRSP, or an annuity purchase from an insurance company
Any charges for elected coverage accrued up to Juh 1, 1992 will stay in place and will be based only on the level of benefits in effect on June 30, 1991 and the period of time that the elected coverage war in place
This provision replaces all pre-relirement death benefits provided for in the Plan up to July 1, 1992
3. Break In Service
(a)	Basic Requirement.
Effective July I. 1992, a Member will break service when he has received less than 3 50 credited hours in a two consecutive calendar year period For the purposes of this section, credited hours will include lay-off credits not to exceed 200 hours, hours worked and disability credits
(b)	Favourable Retirement Discount/Benefit Upgrade For Members Who Return to Active Status After Involuntary lob Loss
Members who are active on or after July I, 1992 whose service was broken in 1983 or later due to an involuntaryjob loss (which excludes termination for cause) and who return to employmentwith a Participating Employerwithin three (3) years of their Break in Service will be treated as follows:
•	the two most recent vested deferred calendar years prior to the Break in Service that was caused by the involuntaryjob losswill be unfrozen for each calendar year after their Break in Service in which 1500 hours are worked or otherwise credited (i.e., layoff, permanent closure, disability, vacation), but excluding banked hours.
•	unfrozen years will be upgraded to the current employer funded benefit level.
-	unfrozen years will be included as eligibleyears for the Active Members early retirement discounts providing a later Break in Service does not occur.
-	the intent of this provision is to unfreeze periods of Continuous Employment that ended solely due to an involuntaryjob loss.
(c)	Favourable Retirement Discount For Members ages 50-54 years eleven
months affected by Involuntaryjob Loss
Members who are activeon or after July 1, 1992 who are aged 50 to 54 years eleven months when involuntaryjob loss occurs (which excludes termination for cause) who do not return to employmentwith a Participating Employer and who elect to leave their deferred pension in the Plan will be treated as follows:
the most recent period of unbroken, Continuous Employment will be eligible for the Active Members early retirement discounts commencing at age 55.
Page 86
Members affected by this provision will break their service under the Plan rules
This provision will continue to apply to periods of employment which ended with an involuntary job loss regardless of the subsequent employment ofthe Member Banked hours will be credited up to their Break in Service date but will not prevent the Break in Service
Employer-funded benefit level increases that occur subsequent to their involuntary job loss date but prior to their Break in Servicedatewill apply if their last Participating Employer contributes at the Full Rate Employing Company rate
This provision will not apply if the Member elects to transfer his Commuted Value out ofthe Plan
(c)
3(b) and 3(c) above will not apply to operations where the employer contribution rate is less than $2.40 per hour.
Benefit Levels
Part Service:
NOTE
Effective July I, 1992 but retroactive to July !, 1991, all Credited Service earned prior ro July 1, 1991 {continuous and unbroken) to which the $32 benefit level applied will be increased to S35 providing that the Full Rate Employing Company rate is paid effecth e July 1, 1992 and that the Member is active on June 30, 1991
Future Service - Employer Funded
Effective July I, 1992 but retroactive to July 1, 1991. all Credited Service earned will accrue at the $35 benefit level, providing that the Full Rate Employing Company rate is paid effective July I, 1992.
Future Service Benefit * Employee Funded
Effective July 1, 1993, all employees covered by the IWA-FIPP whose future service has been accruingat the $35 benefit level shall commence contributing to the Pension Plan from July 1, 1993 and credited service will accrue at $40 per month per year of service
It is agreed that IWA-Canada shall have the option during the term of this Agreement to increase the employee contribution to up to 20^ to fund ihe future service benefit level up to 545 per month p ayear of service.
Page 37
Payment of employee contributions will be treated in the same way as employer contributions.
Benefit Level Application
The increase in the benefit levels listed above will ngj apply to:
(i)	Former Plan Members who became Former Plan Members prior to July I, 1991.
(ii)	Retired Plan Members who retired prior to July 1, 199)
(iii)	Any active Plan Memberwho is employed by an employing company which effective July I. 1992 contributes less than $2 40 per hour.
•	The applicability of paragraph (ill) above on employeesaffected by 2(c) of the 1986 Memorandum of Agreement and the subsequentLysyk decision is subject to resolution by the Trustees
•	Paragraph (iii) above does not apply to totally andpermanently disabled Memberswho lastworkedfor a permanently closed operation which was contributing at the then full rate at its dare of closure.
(iv)	Any activePlan Memberwho was employedbyan employerwho
contributed less than SI .70 per hour prior to July 1, 1992. However, if on the effective date ofthe first collective agreement subsequent to the date of ratification of this Memorandum, or such later date as is provided by the application ofirticlelll (6) ofthe Pension Plan text to their collective agreement, the employing company contract: to contribute at the full rate of $2.40 per hour immediately, then the increase to the S3 5 past and future service benefit level shall apply to all active Plan Members employed by the employing company who were active on June 30, 1991, retroactive to July 1, 1991. If the employing company does nor contract to contribute under the conditions set forth in the preceding sentence, then the increase to the $35 pastandfuture service level shall apply onlyto activePlan Members currently employed on the date the $2.40 per hour contribution rate becomes effective and shall not be retroactive.
Where a company does not contribute at the Full Rate Employing Company rate of $2,40 per hour, Plan Members employedby that company cannot contribute the employee funded future service contribution, nor are they entitled to the future service benefit of $40.
Employee contributions cannot be made and employee funded future service credits cannot be granted retroactively. Employeefunded future
Page
service credits at the $40 rate will start to accrue on the effective date that future service employeeconiributions commence.
5.	Contributory Hours Assumption
The Plan's assumptionfor ContnbutoryHours in 1992 is to be SOmillionhours. All costings associated with these negotiationswil] be based on the 50 millionhours figure
6.	Calculation Formula lor Future Contributory Hours Assumption
After ] 992, a CalculationFormula will be used to establish the annual Contributory Itus Assumption, the formulawill be:
The sum of the previous year's actual hours,
the current year's annualized hours (determined in the 3rd or 4th quarter) and the estimatedhours for the followingyear,
divided by 3 Example:
The sum of:
CalculationfcrtheDecember31, 1993 Actuarial Valuation
• 1992's actual hours
-	1993's annualized hours, and
-	1994's estimatedhours,
divided by 3
Automatic Pre-Retirement Survivor Coverage Extension
The automatic pre-retirement survivor coverage currently providedfor in the Plan for active Members who have attained age 55, will he extendedto those active Members who die within the period of June IS, 1990 andJune 30, 1992 inclusive with all payments commencing on July 1, 1992 (orlater).
SUPPLEMENTNO. 7 CONSTRUCTTONCONTRACTTNG
Section 1:
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Company to car™ m a (it :ci !j rMatpW tn cnnstnirtiftn with tradesmen emoloved bv an outside contractor, plant tradesmei
will be paid the " outside" contractor(s) rate(s)
Section 2:
For the purpose of this Agreement "new" constructionshall be definedas meaning
a)	The construction of major new buildings and major additions to existingbuildings
^ The addition of new or used major productionmachinery and related equipmenlnot previouslyin existence.
Section 3;
"Tradesmen" shell meanjourneyman and apprentices in the following trades.
Machinist	Millwright
Steamhtter/Pipefitter	Welder
Electrician	Carpenter
"Contractor's Rate" shall only mean the hourly wage paid by that contracttor and not any other payment orworking conditions.
"Contractor's Rate" will not exceedthe rates for similar trades paid by IWA Construction companies
SUPPLEMENT NO. 8 ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A.	FLEXIBILITY OF HOURS OF WORK
The Parties recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in the Hours ofWork Article, for the express purpose of better utilization of manpower and capital such as:
Balancing of production Maintenance Market requirements Even flow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuous scheduling (e g. Logging. Engineers.
Firefighter, Maintenance. Watchmen)
B.	SHIFT SCHEDULING
The Parties agree that the following shift scheduler will provide the flexibilityrequired to meet the needs expressed above
1	Logging
(i)	compressed schedules consisting of 10 hours per day. 4 days per week,
(ii)	non-continuous schedulessuch as 10 days on. 4 days off
2	Manufacturing
(i)	2 crews working 4 days, 10 hours per shift;
(ii)	up to 3 crews working Monday to Saturday. 10 hours a shift not exceeding 40 hours per week,
(iii)	employees workingin continuous operations may be scheduled to work shifts other than (i) or (ii) above
3,	Maintenance
0 shifts of up to 10 hours per day, 40 hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive;
(ti) three shiUsperweek, not exceeding^ hours per day.
4.	Other Shifts
js understood the parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
C.	IMPLEMENTATION
Any variation(s) top the Hours ofWcark Article shall be implementedonlyupon completion of the following steps:
The Company and the Local Unmwill meet to discuss proposed shill schedules within the terms of the Houri ofWork Article. It is anticipatedthat the Local Union will make sincere attemptsto assist the Company Wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The parties must mutually agree on resolution of issues such as:
a)	Details of shill.
b)	Details of StatutoryHolidays, Floating Holiday, BereavementLeave, and Jury Duty
i ttj of shifts for physically demanding work, u cidern prevention is a factor to be taken into account in determining shift lengths.
d)	The loss of hours/employment as a direct result ofthe implementation of alternate shift schedules.
e)	The use of employees for supplementaryproduction wzk
The Camp or Plant Committee and the crew will be actively consulted by the Parties during the process,
Page 92
When an alternateshiftscheduleis in effect other provisions ofthe CollectiveAgreement
will be administered on the principlethat an employee will not lose of gain any benefits
over his normal five-day schedule.
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intentionis to increase theuse of casual employ eesin place of regular employees.
2.	Different parts of an operationm y be scheduled on differentshifts,
3.	The principle ofthe forty (40) hour week is to be maintained over an averaging period.
4.	This Article shallnot changeexisting altemateshift agreements,unless agreedto by bothparties.
5.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other Articles of the Collective Agreement which provide benefits after eight (8) hours are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight(8) hours per day.
7.	An employee’s rest days may vary from week lo vedc under an alternate shift schedule. Employees shall notbe paid premium pay for changes in their rest days in these circumstances.
8.	An employee whose rest days arechanged ty the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shall receive rate and one-halffor work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest day results from the applicationofseniority or has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
9.	There shall be no premium pay paid to my employee whose rest days are changed because of the implementationof an altemateshift schedule
SUPPLEMENT NO. 9
BetweensWELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED MERRILL & WAGNERDIVISION
AndilNTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1-425
Re:	Divisions forthe Purpose of Seniority in the
S&wmilLjManer Mill and Plywood. Pipnt Complex,
TheParties agree that the apphcationof Article VIII, Sections b) will be as follows:
Sawmill Division:
Comprised of Sawmill and Planer Mill employees (includingBarkers).
Plywood Division:
All PlywoodPlant employees (includingBarkers).
Open Division
IncludesMaintenanceemployees,and Log Yard employees
However, if an employee from the Plywood Plantwished to go into the Open Division, he/she would do so with his/her senionty m the Plywood Plant but would have to either remainin the, Open Division or go back into the Plywood Plant. The same would apply in the Sawmill Division wi1h employeesmoving.
Those employees hired directly into the Open Divisionwill have one right to successfully bid into either the SawmillDivisionor the Plywood Division Followingwhich, they would have to remainin the divisioninto which they successfully bid, or return to the Open Division
Dated this 9lh day of November, ,
Weld wood of Canada Limited
Merrill* Wagner Division
For
international Woodworks of
America, Local I -475 A FL• C I O., C L.C
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Parties agree that in the application of^'cie IX, Leave of Absence, Section <f, Compassionate Leave, the following criteria shall be used in determining the employee's eligibility
| Leave of Absencewithout pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to those employees with more than two (2Jyeahcontinuous service
2	L at e of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be c"'"" ’ u» Otte (1 ^ mrmth Imvp nFfnr each Vfl/tr c * ZZ.ZZ—Z.Z-Z ZZr.ZZZ Zz Z. 7Z.ZZZZ.-Z... of SIX (61 month;
Leave of Absencewithout pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to a maximum of one (I) leavein a three (3) calendar year period
}. Leave of >m c tx e u d vacation] p< s:: illb limited tc it (3)employees off on v t an} m time in the Plywood Division, two (2) employee: ~<T? '	«.
timi nnp rime in the Sawmill Division and two (2) emniovees off on leave at anv one tim
in the Open Division
5	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes will be granted Ch a first come/ftrst
served basis
SIGNED this 28th day of August. 19S1
For
VVeldwood of Canada Limited Merrill & Wagner Division
For.
International Woodworkers of America, A.F.L.. C.I.O., C.L.C
Page 96
SUPPLEMENTNO. 10
November 4, 1994
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING New and Evolving Work
Preamble
Weldwood of Canada Limited andlWA-Canada agree to process which seeks to balance the economic concerns o fthe member companies with the needs oftheiremployeesto have access to New and EvolvingWork within the Northern Interior Forest Industry.
This process is intended to deal with
1. employment for regular companyemployeeswho are displaced by reductions in Annual AllowableCuts or other land use decisions.
2 additionalopportunides for bargainingunit employment in new work that maybe created in the forest industry
3. replacement bargaining unit employmenlinnew or evolved work which may developin future
Process
t. This Letter established a process for the Company and the Local Umon to discuss opportunities for having company employees perform new and evolving work within the forest industry in:
•	Value Added
•	Re-manufacturing
•	Opportunities created through B.C	Forest Renewal funding
2. CompaniesandLocalUnionsarecommitted to working together towards making newwork opportunities availableto company employees It io understood to accomplishthese goals the parties must achieve.
’ efficiency and cost effectiveness on a fair and reasonable basis
*	quality objectives
*	safety objectives
3	The parties recognize that they cannot reasonably anticipate all circumstancesand situations which may Prise so cannot prescribe comorehenstve solutions in advance
4	The parties agree that early joint preparations an important contributor to the successfulimplementationand administrationof the New and Evolving Work Letter. To this end, the respectivenegotiationcomrnitters willbejointly available to clarify this agreement, and to assist parties on a case by case basis
5	Issuer must be resolvedin atimely fashion
$ ThisLetter will expire onlune30, 1997, unless specifically renewedby both
Dispute Resolution Process:
In order to assist member companies and Local Unions in resolving disputes which may arise as a result ofihls Letter Weldwood of Canada Limited and FWA-Canada agree to'
a)	Establishajoint Dispute ResolutionCommittee comprisedof three P) representatives from managementand three (3) representatives from the Union to fact find and assist the company and Local Union in reaching a solution.
b)	Management or the Local Urim tan request the assistant ofthe Dispute ResolutionCommittee
^ The Dispute Resolution Committeemay utilize the services offacilitators,
mediators, or whatever means in order to reach a final recommended resolution
Agreed to on behalf
parties.
Page 98
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Tusk Force
Weldwood of Canada Limited andlWA-CANADA haveagreedto aTaskForce, comprised of three (3) representativesfrommanagemenl and three (3) representativesofthe Union, with Co-Chairman from each party The Task Force will examine the changes and trends in the forest industry.
The terms of reference for the Task Force will be as follows, but may include other matter the parties wish to explore
1.	To examine the change(s) taking place within the Industry and the impact on Uruon/Management relations
2.	To identifyany procedure, policy, agreement, work schedules,method, working environment.people utilization, and companypractice which contributeslo efficient, safe production performancewhile expandingthe current workforce
3	To identify what changes are appropriate to improve the overall Industry's ability to harvest and manufacturethe timber in a safe, economical manner.
4	To identify opportunities for employeesto learn new skills and to train company employeesto operate the equipmentand perform the other jobs associated with the evolvingjobs within the B C. Forest Industry
5	The TaskForcewill submit reports with recommendationsto the Union and Management Negotiating Committee onaregularbasis cn measures that will address the changes needed within the Forest Industry.
6	This Letter will expire on June 30, 1997, unless specifically renewed by both parties Agreed lo on behalf
Page 99
November 4, 1994
Weldwood of Canada Limited P.O. Box 2179 Vancouver, BC V6B 3V8
Dear Sir
Re: Agreement on New and Evolving Work
This letter is intended Jo clarify IWA-Canada's intent with regard to the terms andconditionsof
the Letter of Understandingin 1994 negotiations on New and Evolving Work
During discussions on this, the Industry raised concerns that we answer as follows:
1,	It is not the intentions of IWA-Canada to use this agreements replace existing logging contractors withlWA markers or crews
2,	It is IWA-Canada's desire to have opportunities to discuss with employersthe possibility of eitherusing r\VA company crews, or IWA contractors, to perform work under Forest Renewal, but it is not our intent to cause companies to purchase equipment without having the costs of such equipment considered as part of the efficiency and cost effectivenessthat IWA agrees to address under the New and Evolving Work agreement
3 It is IWA-Canada's intention that discussionconcemingnew operations under the agreemenlmay lead to voluntary recognition and certification - it is not our intentionsto achieve certificationfirst and enter into discussionslater unless certification occurs as a direct result on an IWA organizing drive
As stated earlier, this letter is to clarify our intentions concerning our agreement It is not
intended to formpan of the agreement, as is not arbitrableby eitherparty.
Sincerely,
Harvey Arcand 4th Vice President DNA-Canada
HA/jg
Page 100
Section 2:
The Parties hereto agree that the operation of Section 66 (2) of the Labour Code of British ColumbiaAct 1973 is excluded from the Master Agreement
Dated this 7 day of /fydsltjx. ,19^/^
FOR
Weldwood of Canada Limited	fWA CANADA,
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1 WAGE SCALES
CATEGOR1ES1N PLYWOOD EVALUATION
Grade 1	Jane 15/94	lune 15/98	lune 16/98
Clean-up	$11715	$19 275	$19.66
	18 S3	19 395	19.785
Dunnage • Saw Operator Dry er Feeder	18 96	19 S3	1992
CarShorer Spreader Washer Strapper Clean-UpLathe Charger Relief			
Grade 4	19075	19.64$	2004
Green Chain Operator Lathe Charger Attendant Chipper Attendant			
1926	19.84	20.235
GreenchainOfltever/ Clipper Attendant Dryer Grader Offbearer Steam Chest Attendant Strapping MachineOperalor Floor Grader Shipper'* Helper Head GreenehainMati
P&gc $0