THIS COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT IS MADE AND ENTERED INTO BY AND BETWEEN:
LOCK-WOOD, A DIVISION OF INDAL CORPORATION HEREIN AFTER REFERRED TO AS THE "COMPANY"
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA
LOCAL 2039
HEREIN AFTER REFERRED TO AS THE "UNION"
DESCRIPTION OF CLAUSE
Bereavement Leave
Copies of Agreement
Discharge and Disciplinary Procedure
Discrimination
Dues
Duration of Agreement
Grievance Procedure and Arbitration
Hours of Work and Overtime
Insurance
Job Postings
Jury Service
Lay-Off Notice
Leave of Absence
Liaison Committee
Management Rights
Negotiating Committee
No Strikes or Lockouts
Purpose
Recognition
Safety and Health
Seniority
Severance Allowance
Shop Stewards and Business Agents
Statutory Holidays
Technological Change
Transfers
Union Security and Check Off
Vacation
wages
ARTICLE NO.	PAGE 1
7	9
9	10
15	19
4	5
4	4
22	26
15	17
6	6
18	21
12	12
8	10
12 -	15
16	20
15	19
3	4
10	11
20	23
1	3
2	3
11	11
12	12
17	21
5	5
14	16
19	22
12	14
4	4
13	15
21	23
Schedule "A"	23
ARTICLE
1.01
- PURPOSE
The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the employer and the employee, provide machinery for prompt settlement of grievances and establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours of work and wages for those employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE
2.01
2.02
2.03
2 - UNION RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union (CEP), Local 2039, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees employed at its plant and/or plants in Scoudouc, New Brunswick, save and except foremen and those above the rank of foreman, security guards, office and sales staff, hereinafter called employees.
Persons whose regular work is not within the classification of Schedule "A" will not perform any of the work covered by’ the classification in Schedule "A” except in cases of
(a)	• emergency
(b)	where aid is requested by an employee
(c)	where such work is for the purposes'of instruction, investigation or experimentation.
Emergency is defined as work that must be done immediately to maintain the efficient and smooth operation of the Company's business and suitable trained employees are not available.
The Company agrees that, during the term of this Agreement, it will not contract out to non-Union contractors the work of assembling completed doors and windows distributed by the Company; provided that this shall not be construed as preventing the Company from obtaining and distributing component parts from or to sources outside the Company's plant at Scoudouc.
Any work normally done by Maintenance Department will not be contracted out while employees of the Maintenance Department who would normally do such work are on layoff.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that the employer has the exclusive right to manage its business save and except as modified by the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including the right to discharge or discipline for just cause, to make, alter or amend from time to time, and enforce rules of conduct and procedure to be observed by employees. It is agreed that these functions shall not be exercised in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement.
article
4.01
4.02
4.03
4.04
4.05
4.06
- UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
All present employees and new employees shall become members and remain members in good standing as a condition of employment of local 2039 of the Union from the first day of work, but shall not accumulate seniority or be entitled to invoke the grievance procedure in case of layoff or dismissal during the 45-day probationary period.
If, at the end of such period, the employee is deemed satisfactory, his seniority will be antedated to the first day of work.
The Company agrees, during the term of this Agreement, to deduct from the wages of each employee in the bargaining unit an amount equal to his regular authorized Union dues and to remit to the Financial Secretary of the Union the monies deducted along with a list of names of the employees from whom deductions were made, the amount deducted and the hours worked, not later than the 15th day of the month following the deductions. Deductions shall be made weekly.
The Company further agrees that it will deduct from the wages of new employees an amount equal to the regularly authorized Union initiation fee. The amounts so deducted shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union by the 15th of the following month.
The Union will save the Company harmless from any and all claims which may be made by employees against the Company for amounts deducted from their pay as herein provided.
Neither the Company nor the Union shall discriminate against employees with respect to terms or conditions of employment on the grounds of race, creed, colour, age, sex, religion, nationality or place of origin, Union membership or participation or non-participation in Union activities, family relationship, place of residence, political affiliation or physical handicap.
Where the masculine gender is used In this Agreement, it is for convenience only and shall refer to both males and females.
SHOP STEWARDS AND BUSINESS AGENTS
ARTICLE
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04
5.05
5.06
5.07
The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint a shop steward in every operating building to represent the employees on their respective shifts.
Temporary stewards may be appointed in the absence of regular stewards. The Union agrees to notify the Company in writing of the names of the steward and the effective date of the appointments. Temporary shop stewards involved in grievance shall continue the follow-up procedure in the event the regular steward returns to work before the grievance is satisfactorily resolved.
The Union acknowledges that the steward and chief shop steward have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that they will not leave such duties without receiving permission from their foreman or supervisor. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. With this understanding, the Company agrees that the steward and chief shop steward shall not suffer any loss of pay during working hours for the time spent to administer any in-plant business concerning this Agreement.
Permanent Union stewards shall be credited with double seniority in the event of a lay-off, provided, however, this provision does not apply in the event the shift, for which a steward was appointed, is no longer in operation.
Any employee called into the office on a disciplinary matter shall be accompanied by his shop steward. In the event of the shop steward being absent and no other shop steward is available, the chief shop steward must accompany the employee.
If an authorized Union representative who is not employed by the Company wishes to speak to local. Union representatives in the plant about a grievance or other official Union business, he shall so advise -the Plant Manager or his designate. The local representatives shall be called to the office where they may confer privately.
The Company agrees to provide Union bulletin boards in the plant for the purpose of posting Union notices and official papers. Notices are to be posted only by officers and stewards of the Union and are to be in keeping with the spirit and intent of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6	- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
DAY SHIFT
6.01(a) The normal work week for Lock-Wood employees on day shift shall be forty hours per week, eight hours per day, 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday to Friday inclusive.
(b)	Lunch period shall be one half hour to be taken during the period between the hours of 12:00 noon and 1:00 p.m. Day-shift workers shall receive a ten-minute break period in the forenoon and another in the afternoon.
(c)	Any time worked in excess of eight hours per day shall be paid for at time and one half. Any time worked on Sundays shall be at double time. Any employee working on a Statutory Holiday shall be paid at double time for hours worked and shall also receive any holiday pay to which he is entitled.
(d)	Day shift employees required to work more than eight and onfe half hours in any day or shift without at least twenty-four hours prior notice shall be given one hour for meal time at time and one half.
(e)	Employees given twenty-four hours prior notice will receive 30 paid minutes for supper and a paid 10 minute break every two hours at time and one half.
6.02	Overtime will be on a voluntary basis and wherever
practical shall be divided equally among the employees.
£ I SHIFT
6.03	(a) The normal work week for Lock-Wood employees on the
evening shift, when no night shift is operating, shall be thirty-eight hours per week, nine and one-half hours per shift, commencing at 4:30 p.m. Monday and ending at 2:30 a.m. Friday.
(b)	Lunch periods and breaks on the evening shift shall be so scheduled:	a ten-minute break at 7:00 p.m.,
a thirty-minute break at 9:30 p.m. and a final ten-minute break at 12:00 midnight.
(c)	Employees working the evening shift will receive ten hours pay for nine and one half hours of work.
EVENING SHIFT AND NIGHT SHIFT BOTH OPERATING
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07
6.08
(a)	The normal work week for Lock-Wood employees on the evening shift shall be thirty-seven and one-half hours per week, seven and one-half hours per shift, commencing at 4:30 p.m. Monday and ending at 12:15 a.m. Saturday.
(b)	The normal work week for Lock-Wood employees on the night shift shall be thirty-seven and one-half hours per week, seven and one-half hours per shift, commencing at 12:15 a.m. Tuesday and ending at 8:00 a.m. Saturday.
(c)	There shall be a ten-minute break half-way through the first half of the shift, a fifteen minute lunch break mid-way through the shift, and a ten minute break half-way through the second half of the shift.
(d)	Employees working the evening and night shifts will receive eight hours pay for seven and one-half hours of work. An additional shift premium for night shift to be included in Schedule "A".
When no night shift is operating, the evening shift will be as per 6.03. When a night shift is started in any department, all departments having an evening shift will operate as per 6.04. When the Paint Department only is working night shift, the remainder of the Plant will operate as per 6.03,
It is the intention of the Company, where possible, to have the evening shift operating at capacity before starting a night shift in that department.
In the event that both the Union and the Company find the above schedule of night shift hours unworkable, the company agrees to reconsider this schedule with the Union.
Any employee assigned to another shift shall be given not less than seven (7) calendar days notice of such change of shift. It i s understood that employees with the lowest departmental seniority will be assigned first to shift work provided they have sufficient training to do the work. Where possible assemblers with the least amount of plant wide seniority will be assigned to the night shift.
6.09
6.10
6.11
6.12
6.13
At the end of each ten-minute break period as provided for in paragraphs 6.01(b), 6.03(b) and 6.04(c), the horn will sound and all employees shall immediately return directly to their work stations. A warning horn will be sounded at the eight (8) minute mark.
An employee scheduled for and reporting for work and then not permitted to work shall receive four hours1 pay at his regular straight time rate. This provision shall not apply when any emergency close-down occurs involving over 25% of the employees on the active payroll.
An employee "called back" to work after he has completed his normal shift and left the plant, shall receive the greater of:
(a)	four (4) hours of pay at straight time, or
(b)	time and one half for hours actually worked.
Guaranteed minimum to be four (4) hours of straight time.
The Company guarantees that periodic "stock-taking" will not result in the loss of more than one scheduled working day at any one time.
All employees coming under the terms of this Agreement are to be paid by cheque Thursday at 4 o'clock of each week if cheques are ready. When paid Friday, shall be paid at noon. When Friday is a Statutory Holiday, pay is to be given not later than 4 o'clock on Thursday.
ARTICLE
7.01
7.02
7.03
- BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
The Company will grant leave of absence with pay for the purpose of arranging and attending funerals in the case of bereavement as follows:
(a)	Four (4) days of absence with pay in the case of the death of a spouse or child. These days must be taken within two weeks of the date of death.
(b)	Three (3) days of absence with pay in the case of the death of a brother, mother, father, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, or grandchildren of an'employee.
(c)	One (1) day of absence with pay in the case of a grandparent, brother-in-law, and sister-in-law of an employee for the purpose of attending the funeral.
(d)	In case of out of town or city death, one extra day with pay shall be granted where the funeral is held outside the Province of New Brunswick for the purpose of attending the funeral.
The leaves of absence granted under (b), (c) and (d) shall end on the day of the funeral, except in the case of an out of town death (d).
Compensation will not be paid to an employee for any part of this period he would normally not be scheduled to work.
ARTICLE 8 - PAY FOR JURY SERVICE
8.01	The Company shall pay an employee who is required for
jury service the difference between his regular straight time daily earnings and the amount of pay received from the court for each regular working day spent on jury service. The employee must present proof of service and the amount of pay received.
ARTICLE
9.01
- COPIES OF AGREEMENT
The Company and the Union desire every employee to be familiar with the provisions of the Agreement and his rights and duties under it. For this reason, the Company will print the Agreement in booklet form and all employees will receive a copy.
The Company will also translate, print and make available, sufficient copies of the Agreement in French, as may be required. Should a conflict occur, the English version shall prevail.
Article 10 - negotiating committee
10.01	For the purpose of meeting with Company representatives
to negotiate contract changes, a committee of not more than five employees plus Union representative (s) will be designated by the Union.
Members of Negotiating Committee will not lose pay for time spent during regularly scheduled working hours attending scheduled meetings with the Company representatives.
ARTICLE
11.01
11,02
11.03
11.04
11.05
11 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
The Company and Union agree that they mutually desire to maintain high standards of safety and health in the plant in order to prevent industrial injury and illness.
The Company agrees to continue its present practice of furnishing the following safety equipment and protective clothing where and when required by the job:
Safety Glasses Hard Hats Goggles Gloves
Hearing Protectors
The Company will provide an allowance of up to $50.00 per year for boots for Paint System Operators and Hand Sprayers.
The Company and the Union agree to name a Safety and Health Committee comprising an equal number of Company and Union representatives. The Committee1s function will be to promote safety and industrial hygiene in the plant. It shall make monthly inspections and also accompany the Safety Inspector on his inspections of the plant and equipment. The Committee shall hold monthly meetings.
Upon request of the Union or the Company, the Safety Committee shall investigate and report as soon as possible on the nature and causes of any accident or injury.
In the event of employees sustaining injuries at work during the course of their employment and becoming physically handicapped as a result thereof, every effort will be made by the Company to give the handicapped employee such suitable employment as is available.
Overalls Wrist Guards Aprons Masks’
SENIORITY
riCLE 12
i.01	The Company recognizes that job opportunity and security
in the bargaining unit should increase in proportion to length of service. It is, therefore, agreed that in all such cases of vacancy, promotion, transfer, lay-off, recall, vacation schedule, senior employees shall be entitled to preference.
12.02	In recognition, however, of the responsibility of the Company for efficient operation of the plant, it is
understood and agreed that in all such cases the Company shall have the right to pass over any employee if it establishes that he does not have the skill, ability or the physical fitness to perform the work, providing that the Company gives a fair and reasonable trial and training period not to exceed two days.
12.03	Seniority of each employee in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement shall be established after a probation period of forty-five (45) calendar days and shall count from date of employment.
12.04	JOB POSTINGS
All vacancies and promotions for positions of more than one month 1 s duration and newly created positions shall be posted for ten (10) working days on the bulletin board supplied for Union purposes. Any employee desiring the position must make written application to the Company within the first ten (10) days of posting.
Notices for newly created positions will be given to the Union at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of posting for translation.
All applicants for a posted vacancy will be considered on the following basis:
(a)	He has the skill and ability to perform the job.
(b)	Seniority.
(c)	He may be ruled ineligible for the appointment if he has bid for and filled another position in the previous six months.
(d)	In the event the Company does not receive any application within the said period of ten (10) working days, the Company shall have the right to fill the position without further posting.
It is agreed that in the event of two (2) or more applicants possessing relatively the same qualifications then the employee with the most seniority will qualify for the job.
12.04
12.05
12.06
12.07
12.08
JOB POSTINGS (continued)
It is agreed that the successful applicant be given a trial period of 10 working days both to demonstrate his ability and to familiarize himself with the job requirements.
If, at the end of the trial period, it is deemed that he has neither the ability nor the interest to perform the job, then he has the right to return to his former position and wage classification without loss of seniority.
The Company shall maintain a seniority list for the plant, a copy of such list shall be posted for employee inspection and a copy shall be provided to the Union. This list shall be kept up to date three times per year, if requested by the Union.
An employee shall lose seniority and shall cease to be an employee of the Company for any of the following reasons:
(a)	if the employee voluntarily quits
(b)	if the employee is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure
(c)	if the employee has been on lay-off for lack of work according to the following schedule:
45 days to two (2) years - 12 months More than two (2) years - less than ten (10) years -18 months
Ten (10) years and over - 3 6 months.
(d)	if an employee on lay-off is offered a job in any department in the plant at the same rate as his classified rate and refuses to accept the recall to work.
TRANSFERS
If an employee substitutes in any department on any job during the absence of another employee, he shall receive the rate for the job or his regular rate, whichever is the greater.
No employee shall be transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit without his consent. If an employee is transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit, he shall retain his seniority accumulated up to the date of leaving the unit but will not accumulate further seniority. Such employee shall have the right to return to a position in the bargaining unit consistent with his seniority accumulated up to the date of transfer outside the unit.
TRANSFERS
12.09	The Company may temporarily transfer an employee for a
period of up to three {3) working days without referring to seniority-	Temporary transfers beyond three (3)
working days shall be done on a seniority basis. Classified employees above the rate of assembler may be excluded from transfer. Any transfer of a permanent nature will be discussed with the individual concerned.
12.10	Employees on lay-off for shortage of work or absent due to illness, who have completed their probationary period, shall continue to accumulate seniority while on lay-off subject to the restrictions of Article 12.06.
12.11	New employees shall not be hired for jobs classified under this Agreement while there are employees on layoff.
12.12	LAY-OFF NOTICE
In the event of lay-off due to lack of work, the employees affected and their union shall be given one week's notice in advance-
,RTT
ARTICLE 13 - VACATION
13.01 The vacation year is July 1 to June 30. Vacation and vacation pay will be based on the following schedule:
Seniority	Vacation
Less than 1 year
1	year
2	years
3	years
4	years
5	years
6	years
7	years
8	years
9	years
10	years
11	years
12	years
13	years
14	years
15	years
16	years
17	years
18	years
19	years
20	years
21	years
22	years
23	& over
1 day per month worked (maximum 10) 1 day per month worked (maximum 12)
1 1/4 days per month worked (maximum 15)
1 3/4 days per month worked (maximum 21)
25 days (maximum)
13.02	Absence due to lay-off and approved leave of absence of up to two months shall be considered as days worked for vacation purposes.
13.03	Absence due to a non job related sickness or injury, of up to four months and absence due to a job related injury of up to six months shall be considered as days worked for vacation purposes.
,RTICLE 13 - VACATION
13.04	Vacations shall be taken at a time mutually satisfactory to the employee and to the Company. Vacation pay shall be paid to the employee at least one week before the
vacation is taken.
The Company will give anyone who is entitled to two weeks or more vacation, up to two weeks vacation within the June 15 to September 15 period, at the employee's option, provided that not more than 50 people will be absent from the plant at any one time during that period.
ARTICLE 14 - PAID STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
14.01	The following shall be paid holidays:
New Year's Day	Labour Day
Heritage Day (if declared) Thanksgiving Day Good Friday	Remembrance	Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
New Brunswick Day
14.02	If any of the above holidays fall on a Saturday, the preceding Friday will be the recognized holiday; and if any of these holidays fall on a Sunday, the following Monday will be the recognized holiday.
14.03	An employee required to work on any of the above named holidays shall be paid at the rate of two times the regular straight time hourly rate in addition to the holiday pay.
14.04	If a Statutory Holiday falls within the employee’s vacation period, the Company shall grant an extra day’s vacation pay at a time to be determined by the Company and the employee either the day before or the day after the vacation period provided not more than fifty (50) employees are absent on the day requested by the employee.
14.05, To be eligible for Statutory Holiday pay, an employee must work his scheduled work day immediately preceding and the scheduled work day immediately following such Holiday except in the case of sickness or accident (doctor’s certificate may be required) or approved leave of absence.
ARTICLE 15 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
15.01	The purpose of this section is to establish procedures for discussion, processing and settlement of grievances as defined in this Agreement.
15.02	"Grievance" as used in this Agreement is a complaint or request involving any matter relating to any question or interpretation or application of, or compliance with, the provisions of this Agreement and shall only relate to or concern any grievance which has arisen or arises subsequent to the date of this Agreement.
15.03	Saturday, Sunday, plant holidays and plant vacation period shall not be included in any time limits in this section of the Agreement. If either party is unable to follow the time limits as set down in the Grievance Procedure, these time limits may be extended by requesting same in writing, if mutually agreed upon by both parties.
15.04	Grievances shall be handled in the following manner:
(a)	STEP ONE
Any employee who believes he has a grievance must discuss the matter with the foreman, the employee
may, if he so desires, be accompanied by his
steward. If no acceptable decision can be reached at this time, then within 7 working days after the alleged grievance has arisen, the employee must present the grievance in writing to his foreman. The foreman shall state his decision or refusal to make a decision in writing and submit the same within 24 hours.
(b)	STEP TWO
If no settlement is reached in Step One, the grievance may, within 5 days after the disposition of Step One, be referred in writing to the Personnel Manager who will meet with the employee concerned accompanied by the chief shop steward or the Union •	president within 48 hours. The Personnel Manager
will render a decision in writing within a further 4 8 hours.
ARTICLE 15 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
15.04
15.05
15.06
15.07
15.08
15.09
(c)	STEP THREE
If no settlement is reached in Step Two, the employee accompanied by his shop steward and/or a Union representative will meet the Vice President, Manufacturing to discuss the grievance, no later than 5 days after the disposition of Step Two. The Plant Manager will render his decision within 48 hours of the meeting.
(d)	If the grievance is not then settled, then at the request of either party to this Agreement the grievance may be referred to arbitration within 5 days after the disposition of Step Three.
The Union or Company shall have the right to initiate a grievance of a general nature, at Step Three of the grievance procedure.
Arbitration shall be in accordance with the current Industrial Relations Act and each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of an'Arbitrator appointed by it, (or a single Arbitrator) and the parties will jointly bear the expenses of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board, if any. The procedures of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto.
The Board of Arbitration shall not have the power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions nor to make any decisions inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement. The Arbitration Board (or single Arbitrator) will be required to render a formal decision within thirty (30) days from the conclusion of the Hearing.
All time limits mentioned in the grievance and arbitration procedures may be extended by written mutual agreement between the parties.
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
The Company shall not take disciplinary action without first warning the employee concerned, unless the circumstances justify immediate suspension or discharge. In the event of a claim that an employee has been discharged or suspended unjustly or unreasonably, the grievance shall be filed at Step Three of the grievance procedure within five (5) working days. Warning shall be given in writing or in the presence of a shop steward.
ARBITRATION
15.09	Continued
Any warning will be removed from the employee's record at the end of thirty (30) months following the date of such warning provided that no other disciplinary action has been taken against the employee within the thirty (30) month period.
15.10	LIAISON COMMITTEE
The Company agrees to meet with the Liaison Committee to be appointed by the Union from its Lock-Wood membership.
The Committee is to include a representative from the
Union, all duly appointed executive officers and at least four (4) Company representatives.
The meetings are to be held monthly and, in addition, either the Union or the Company may call a Special Meeting to discuss items of business which should not be delayed until the regular meeting.
Special Meetings will be held on the time of those calling the Meeting.
In general, the duty of the Committee will be to discuss matters of mutual interest to the Union and the Company.
During the performance of their duties, the employees on the Committee shall be excused from their regular duties.
ARTICLE 16 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
16.01	An employee will be allowed up to a 30-day leave of absence without pay for personal reasons if:
(a)	he requests it from the Company in writing; and
(b)	the leave is for good reason and does not interfere with operations. A leave of absence will be extended for additional 30-day periods, if there is good reason and the Company agrees. The employee must request the extension in writing before his leave of absence is up. The Union will be notified of all leaves under this Section.
16.02	An employee who has been elected or appointed by the Union to attend Union conventions or conferences shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for this purpose. The Union will inform the Company of the names of the delegates to a maximum of five (5) delegates at any one time. The Company shall grant an employee a leave of absence of not more than three years to work in an official capacity for the local or national Union. The employee must request the leave in writing and the Union must approve it. This leave may be extended for additional three-year periods.
16.03	Request for leave of absence will be in writing and no such leave will affect any employee's seniority rights when used for the purpose granted.
■ARTICLE 17 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
17.03, Subject to the seniority provisions of this Agreement, employees who become permanently displaced as a result of the closing of the plant or a department, or of the moving of the plant to another location shall be entitled to a severance allowance in accordance with their seniority. The amount of severance allowance to which an employee shall be entitled to shall be:
(a) One year of seniority but less than three years, shall receive two weeks pay;
(b)	Three years seniority but less than five years, four weeks pay;
(c)	Five years seniority but less than seven years, seven weeks pay;
(d)	Seven years seniority but less than nineteen years, nine weeks pay;
(e)	Nineteen years seniority or more, twelve weeks pay.
Severance allowance shall be paid to employees in a lump sum at the time of termination.
ARTICLE 18 - INSURANCE
18.01	The Company agrees to make a contribution toward the employees' health and welfare fund; namely, Local 2039 Health Insurance Trust Fund as follows:
Effective May 1, 1993	- $0.49 per hour on all
hours earned
ARTICLE 19 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
19.01	Technological Change, for the purpose of this Agreement, is defined as a change resulting from the introduction of different equipment which will reduce labour requirements.
19.02	A technological change which is likely to affect, on a permanent basis, the continued employment of 10 or more employees within the bargaining unit, will not be put in effect until the following conditions are met:
(a)	the Company gives notice i'n writing of the technological change to the employees likely to be affected and to the Union at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such change.
(b)	the notice to the Union shall be in writing stating the nature of the technological change, the location and number of employees likely to be directly affected, and the proposed implementation date.
(c)	the Company and the Union will discuss the proposed technological change and the measures to be taken to deal with the anticipated effect of the proposed change on the employees who will be directly affected.
19.03	Any new job classification resulting from such technological change shall be discussed with the Union, and if the parties are unable to agree on the wage rate for such classification, the rate established by the Company shall apply until the next negotiation of the labour agreement.
The employee given the new position shall receive such training as may be necessary to perform the requirements of the new job, without loss of earnings.
19.04	An employee displaced or laid off from his or her job as a result of the technological change shall be given the opportunity to fill any vacancy or displace an employee with less seniority as provided for in Article 12 except such employee shall have no right to return to his former position.
ARTICLE 20 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
20.01	The Union agrees that there will be no strike or other collective action which will interfere with or stop the efficient operation of production or other work of the Company for the duration of this Agreement.
20.02	The Company agrees that there will not be any lockout of employees for the duration of this Agreement.
article 21 - WAGES
21.01	The wage schedule listing all job classifications is attached hereto as Schedule "A" and shall form part of this Agreement.
21.02	It is agreed that no employee shall suffer any loss in present take-home pay as a result of the signing of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE "A"
CLASSIFICATIONS
Industrial Mechanic
Machine Operator - Class 1
Machine Operator - Class 2
Custom Work
Single-End Tenoner
Maintenance - Utility Worker
Forklift Operator (over 12,000 lbs.)
Lumber Grader
Glazier
Glass Cutter
Forklift Operator (under 12,000 lbs.)
Rip Saw Operator
Grill Machine
Meter Mix Operator
Nailer Operator
Defect Cutter
Shipper
Shunter Driver Hand Spray Painter Assembler Lumber Handler Stockroom Attendant Warehouseworker Minimum Starting Rate
May 1/93 16.68 15.55 14.37
14.17
14.17
14.08
14.08
14.08
14.08
14.08
14.02
14.02
14.02
13.93
13.93
13.93
13.84
13.84 13.83
13.78
13.78
13.78
13.78 10.82
January 1/94 15.01 14.00 12.93
12.75
12.75
12.67
12.67
12.67
12.67
12.67 12.62 12.62 12.62
12.54
12.54
12.54
12.46
12.46 12.45
12.40
12.40
12.40
12.40 9.74
First-Aid Premium Lead Hand Premium Night Shift Premium
2	5/hr
3	5/hr 25/hr
Machine Operator classes include Matcher, Moulder, Double-End Tenoner, Finger-Joint, and Paint System Operators and Grinding Room Attendants.
COMMENCING MAY 1. 1993
SCHEDULE "A"
35<t per hour of the employee's hourly wage as set out above shall
be deducted by the Company and paid monthly to the Union's Designated Pension Fund.
Article 22 - duration of agreement
22.01

year to year thereafter*"unless either party gives to the other party written notice within ninety (90) days prior to the expiry date of the contract, that it desires to terminate or amend its provisions.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Collective Agreement on the day of February
LOCK-WOOD,
A DIVISION OF INDAL CORPORATION
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 2039
(Witness)