Between
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (100 Mile House Division)
and
IWA- CANADA LOCAL 1-425, C.L.C.
JULY 1,1991 - JUNE 30,1994
0|00^- 04
01002 (04)
INPJEX
ARTICLE
n
m
N
V
VI
vn
vm
IX
X
XI
xn
xm
xrv
XV
XVI
xvn
xvm
XIX
xx
XX3
xxn
xxm
XXIV
xxv
XXVI
xxvn
xxvni
XXIX
Bargaining Agency
Definition
Management
Union Security
Wages
Committee
Hours ofWork
Seniority
Leave of Absence
Vacations with Pay
Safety and Health
Statutory Holidays '
Call Time
Grievance Procedure
Right of Reference
Arbitration and Interpretation
Pay Days
General Provisions
Forestry Environmental Committee
Health and Welfare
Long Term Disability Plan
IWA-Forest Industry Pension Han
Apprenticeship Training Program
Sawnin Rate Determination
Technological Change
Safety Equipment
Tool Insurance
Contracting Out
Duration of Agreement
1
2 2 2 5
7
8 12 15 18 22 23
25
26 27 27 29
29
30 30
33
34
34
35
35
36
37
No. 1
No. 2 No. 3 No. 4 No. 5 No. 6 No. 7 No. 8
Wage Scale A - Evaluated Categories - Sawmill
Wage Scale B - Non-Evaluated Categories JourneymanTcadeanaoi Categories gfcranin Rate Determination Program ApprenticeshipTraining Program Letters of Understanding Firefighting Agreement Qansiructlon Contracting Alternate Shift Scheduling
39
42
45
46 49 57 59 62 63
A G R E E M E N T
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the 19th day of February, 1992
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED. 100 MILE HOUSE OPERATIONS,
(hereinafter caUed the Company of the FIRST PART)
(hereinaftercailed the Urim of the SECOND PART)
1.	Whereas it is the intent and purpose cf the Parties hereto that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationships between the Employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement covering rates cf pay, hours of work, and conditions of employmentto be observed between the Parties hereto;
2.	And Whereas the Company accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditionsof this Agreementand to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Employees;
3.	And Whereas the Union accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Company.
NOW THEREFORE, the Parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE T ■ BARGAINING AGENCY Section 1;
The Company shall recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining representatives on behalf cf its employees properly and duly certified under the appropriate regulations in effect from time to time.
The bargaining authority of the Union shall not be impaired during the term of the Agreement. The only certification that the Company will recognize during the term of this Agreement is that of the Union unless ordered by due process of law to recognize some other bargaining authority
Section 3k
The Company and the Union shall meet aL such time aid place as may be mutually agreed upon for the purpose of discussing wages aid working conditions aid adjusting any matters within the confines of the Agreement which come within the scope of the Collective Bargaining between the Employees and the Compaiy.
ARTICLE D - DEFINITION
The Term “Employee” as used and for lie purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the company on whose behalf the rWA-CANADA, Local 1 *425, have been certified as bargaining agents, exceptaid excluding foremen aid others having authority to hire and fire, office rates, supervisory officials aid salesmen.
ARTICLE IP - MANAGEMENT
Section 1:
The management cf the operation aid the diiectdm aid promotion of the Employees arc vested exclusively in the Management; provided, however, that this shall not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
SgtiflH 2;
The Company shall have the right to select its employees and discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
ARTICLE IV - UNION SECURITY
Section 1;
The Compaiy shall co-operate with the Union in obtaining aid retaining as members, the
employees as defined in this Agreement, and lo this end shall present to new employees aid to all Supervisors aid Foremen the Policy herein expressed.
Section 2:
All employees who entered the employmentof the Compaiy on or after the 15th cf June, 1970, aid all new employees, shall withinthirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members ofthe Union aid maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
Section 3:
Ary employee who is a member in good staiding, or is reinstated as a member cf the Union, shall, as a conditionof continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement.
2
Section 4:
Any employee who fails to maintain his/her membership in the Uxim as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments shall be discharged forthwith after seven (7) days wrirten notice lo the Company cf the said employee's refusal to maintain his/her membership.
Section 5:
a)	No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his/her application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the TWA National Ganstitutim, and in accordance with the Bylaws of Local 1-425, as of June 1981.
b)	Any employee who applies to join the Uiim pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Unicn, shall not be subject to discharge from employment.
Section 6;
The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate on forms supplied by the Union. The forms shall be substantially as follows.
IWA - CANADA
CHECK-OFF
Starting Date...19.
Name of Employer	Name of Employee
Address
Postal Code______
Phone ___________
(Please Print)
_____________________________________	Social Insurance
Operation	Number____________
Are you a Member of the IWA?____________________________________
In what IWA qperatim were you last employed? ___________________
Local Union
3
I	HEREBY authorize and instruct you to deduct from my wage s and
REMIT TO LOCAL 1 -_________________ THE FOLLOWING IN PAYMENT OF THE
AMOUNT SET OUT BELOW:
1	Union Initiation Fees in the amount of $_________
2	Union Back Dues in the amount of •$______________
3	Union Dues $____per month, commencing	19
4	Union Assessments m the amount aid at the tune stated ui nonce received by you from tteLocal Union designated above
Clock No ___________________
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
I hereby request and accept membership in the fWA-CANAPA, Local No. 1 -___
and agree to abide by the constitution and bylaws of the organization. In caseoF misstatementof qualifications for membership I agree to forfeitall rights, privileges aid monies paid.
Signature of Applicant-Employee
This assignmentshall become effective immediately in the case of employees already matters of the Union, and shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution in the case of employees not previously members of the Union. Until the said assignment is revoked by the employee, the Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment to the Local Union named therein no later than the 15th of the mcnth following the month in which the deduction was made from the employee, together with a written statement of names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction. All check-off forms shall be forwarded to the Local Union within fifteen (15) days of hiring.
The Company shall furnish the Union once every month with a list setting out the names of employees absent for fourteen (14) days or longer, due to illness or injury.
SegtjgjLfc
The Company shall furnish the Union with the Social Security Number of each employee on its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded to the Union after the execution of this Agreement or after the employee enters the employment ofthe Company, whichever date last occurs.
4
ARTICLE V - WAGES
Section 1
a)	The Parties agree that effective the 15th day of June, 1993, the wages of all hourly employees will be increased by eighty-five cents (85 cents) per hour.
b)	The Parties agree that	the	minimum rate	in the mill for common labour shall be.
j)	$17.07	per	hour effective June	15,	1991
ij)	$17.07	per	hour effective June	15,	1992.
iii)	$17.92	per	hour effective	June	15,	1993.
c)	Employees who have left the employ of the Company must apply within thirty (30) days of ratification to be eligible for retroactive pay flowing fiixmthis Agreement.
d)	Coverall service will be made available Io Tradesmen and Apprentices per Supplement 03 plus Oilers, Grindermen, End Sprayers and Panel Sprayers. Cost of providing this service will be borne by the employer. When coverall service is requested by the employee, the service must be used. Failure to wear the coveralls after they have been provided will result in permanent loss cf this privilege
e)	The Company will pay the cost of training or retraining for Industrial First Aid Certificates including lost time wages to designated duty First Aid Attendants.
f)	Grades • Sawmill - Planer
j) Grading tickets shall be permanent and valid certificates
ii)	All graders holding grading tickets shall anend upgrading classes as required.
iii)	Graders who are required to attend upgrading classes (rule changes) shall receive their regular straight time job rate fortune spent in attending said classes.
jv)	All Certified Lumber Graders shall receive a premium of fifteen cents
(15 cents) per hour for a Grading Certificate provided that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as Lumber Graders, effective September 1, 1975.
Section 2:
Far convenience of reference only, a Wage Scale is published as Supplement No. I and shall be effective, subject to corrections of any errors or omissions, as of June 15, 1991, and may, subject to the consent of both Parties, be revised once annually.
5
Section 3; First Aid Attendants
a)	Designated First Aid attendants shall receive their job rate of pay plus the Ticket Premium Rate.
All other employees holding valid First Aid Tickets shall receive a premium of five cents (5 cents) per hour over aid above their job rate. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums
5) Where a Company is paying a bonus or premiums(s) greater than set out above, it shall keep such policy in effect.
The first shift is the recognized day shift. Hours waited outside the recognized day shift shall be regarded as the second aid third shins. A shin differentia] of thirty-one cents (3J cents) per hour shall be paid for second and third shifts. A day shift employee wattemg in excess of his/her regular shift shall be paid rate aid one half without the differential. Ary employee on the second aid third shift working in excess of his/her regular shiftshall receive rate and one half. For the. purpose of the last sentence, rate shall be rate plus thirty-one cents (31 cents). Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one cents (31 cents) shift differential for all hours watted outside the recognized day shift.
Section 5:	Job and Equipment Changes
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
The Company vaH give advance notice of job aid equipment changes to the Local Union.
i) New jobs shall be posted in accordancewith Article VIII, Section 4,
u) Bit employee on significantly revised jobs will remain on the r :v job, competency considered. Up-graded b isic rate jobs will be p in accordance with Article VTH, Section 4.
An f uj : shall ret s v the itt if hi A new rate is negotiated
h :j until such time as a
i)
ii)
V a pi
The applicant shall have the right to revert to his/her original job within thirty (30)	1 i »<± ys pro idi ig his. her old job still exists.
Management shall have the right to postpone the reversion to permit the training of a replacement.
j	ate is agreed up te n p j t shall n iv th< .
between the rate and his/her interim rate from the date he/she started the new oi revised job.
6
f) Rate negotiations shall be guided by the following principles:
i)	Job analysis to be based on all factors including skill, knowledge, responsibility and job conditions.
ii)	Failing satisfaction at the local level, the Union would have the right of referral to a Regional Authority.
In the event thatjob conditions change due to the installation of new machinery or revision of week practices or new classifications,the Parties shall meet after new machinery is operating properly or the new work practices have proven practical, lo determine the designation and wage rate to be paid to the employee(s) affected.
h) In the event thatjob conditions change in the Sawmill or Planermill Sections as set out in Section (a) above, wage rates shall be determined as set out in the Sawmill Rate Determination Program.
ARTICLE VI - COMMITTEE
For the purpose of this Agreement, when the word “Cornminee, is used, it shall mean Shop, Camp, or MIL Committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
Section 2:
The Cannittee shall consist of not less than four (4) and not note than seven (7) employees who are members of the Union, and, whenever possible, they shall be selected on a departmental basis.
Section 3:
The Union, shall within sixty (60)days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members on the Cornminee The Union or committee shall inform the Company in writing when any member change takes place on the Committee. No member of the Committee shall be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is carried out.
Section 4;
The provisions of Sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply in reference to: a) Article XI: Safety Committee ■ where the members are designated according to the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act, and, (b) under Article XV: Joint Committee.
7
FW
Section!;
a)
b)
The regular hours cf work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40)hours per week, with rate aid one half for any hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any one day and forty (40)in any one week AJ1 production employees shall be paid rate and one half for Saturday and/or Sunday, regardless of the number of hours worked during the week except that
Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following
i)	Hours waited in excess of eleven (11) hours per day
y) Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (o) days
iji) For the purposes of (b) herein a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked
jv) Item (ii) above shall rot apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day
Section 2 Casual Work
a)	The term 'Casual Work' as used in this Agreement shall apply only to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-off regular employees or other persons hereinafter referred to as 'Casual Employees'
b)	Casual work on production shall be paid for ai one and cue half times Job rate
c)	Casual vodc on maintenance, repair and preparatory work shall be pad for at straight time Job rates
d)	Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as Casual Employees, and shall have preference for available work over the sard Causal Employees
e)	Weekend cleanup work performed by casual employees, laid-off regular employees and pan-tune employees will be paid for at straight time job rate except as provided in (0 herein
f)	A laid-off regular production employee shall be considered a production employee during the week he/she is laid off mid will be paid rate and one half for any work he/she performs on either Saturday or Sunday except as provided in Section 1, subsecuoo (b) above
8
g)	The Company agrees to keep a separate seniority list of casual employees for each division who have worked at least tat (10) working days exclusively for recall purposes and, subject to Clause (d), further agrees to recall casual employees in accordancewith their seniority as set forth in this list.
Section 3;
a)	Those employees who, cf necessity, regularly work on Saturday and Sunday shall take two (2) other days of the week offlo be mutually agreed between the employees and the Company. In such event, Saturday and Sunday shall be considered working days and overtime rates Shdll not apply on Saturday. However, these employees shall be paid rate and one half for work perfaaiBd on Sunday. Overtime rates shall apply when the regular daily or weekly work limit has been executed. Overtime rates shall apply on the rest days of these employees, if worked, unless a changes in rest days has been agreed upon between the employee and the Company.
b)	For the purpose of this Section only, employees shall be Engineers, Firemen, Operating Millwrights, Maintenance Workers and Watchmen.
Section 4:
a)	Maintenance, Repair and Construction employees can be employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work week for which they shall De paid straight time for Saturday work, lo such event, Sunday and Monday shall be recognized as their rest days and any work performed on their rest days shall be paid for at rate and one-half. The rest day, Monday, may be changed by mutual consent between the employee and the Company.
In such event, work performed on Monday shall be paid for ± straight time. If the employee works on Monday at the request of the Company, the rate of pay will be rate and one half. However, if the employee requests a temporary change from his/her rest day on Monday, work performed on monday shall be paid for at straight time.
b)	If a Statutory Holiday occurs on the employee’s regular day off, he/she shall be entitled to tale his/her next regular work day off without pay.
Section 5:	Alternate Shift Scheduling
a) Management, Plant or Camp Committees mid the Local Union shall have the right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturingoperations, may include Sundays, withoutovertime penalty, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour week is maintained over an averaging period. Rate and one-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday.
9
b)
Any variation(s) t > the p tc d ig t i den u ng normal hours of work shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
i)	Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Local Man t
ii	Majority approval by the employees involvedin the proposed
variatior
When alternative shift schedules have been in above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A. Rate and one half shall be paid for the following:
in accordaj with, a) and b)
i)
ii)
iii)
iv)
The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess f the normal daily hours of tl blished scheduli
Hours worked in excess >f forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
All h	n worked on an ilo	’s	di	restdy,	unless a
chang	in 5 .j has been	d 1	t?	the ipl
and the Company
.Ail hours worked « Sunday except those excluded in the casual ssctdoL
Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	All hours worked in excess cf (i) above.
jj)	AU hours j> orked on a Su iday when Sunday is a an
employee’s scheduled rest day, if the employee 1 worked forty (40) straight-time hours in the preceding su (6)	,
unless a change in rest L hub i:	xl tt t	5
>!<	:	1 the Ci i]
Supplement No. t • Alternate Shift Scheduling,	i s the agreed upon
ne J principle s id parame :ers for the establ	t implementation or
unuance c f teraate sh ft schedule
Secti<m&
If three (3) hours or less in the Sawmill Division and/or one (l)hour or less io the Plywood Division are necessary after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding a Statutory Holiday to complete a shift winch commenced work on Friday afternoon or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, time vested after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding the Statutory Holiday to complete the shift shall be paid straight time rates.
10
Section 7:
The work shall commence with the starling time of the first shift Monday, and shall end at the completion of the last shift which commences on the following Friday.
Section 8:
a)	The Company shall have the right to operate the plant or any part thereof on a three (3) shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Company’s option.
b)	Section (a) above shall only apply to those employees actually working on a tbrss(3) shin basis.
Section 9:
The foregoing provision of this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 10:
All employees in manufacturing plants shall be entitled to two (2) ten-minute (10) rest periods during each regular shift; provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision.
Section 1t
Where maintenance, repair and construction employees are required to work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal to be consumed by the employees on Company time before "beginning the overtime work. The hot meal will be made available in a local restaurant, (if possible), if not, at the Plywood Plant.
Section 12:
The Company agrees to discontinue the use of time clocks, subject to the following:
1.	The general use of clocks be discontinued for a trial period of three (3) months
2.	New employees are to punch the clock for the first three (3) months of employment.
3.	Casual employees are to punch the clock.
4.	Employees who report late must punch the clock and have the card initialled by their foreman.
11
5.	Employees may make arrangements with employees on the samejobs on their following shift to relieve them a maximum of ten (10) minutes prior to their regular quitting time providing they have permission of both foreman involved
6.	Employees may enter or leave their place of work by the North Entrance only
7.	Employees who work overtime nust punch
8.	Employees who have been absent and return to warknust report to their department farsnanat the commencement of the shift
9.	Employees who abuse the system shall be required to punch the clock for a three (3) month period,
10 Employees abusing the honoursystem will still be subject to Article m, Section 2 of the Collective Agreement
ARTICLE Vm - SENIORITY
Section-!-;-Principle-of Seniority
The principle of seniority, competency considered, shall be recognized by the Company and
the Union; Ibe. application of seniority being determined by Plant or Division.
Section 2:	Divisions and Departments
This Agreementcoven all operations of the Company which shall be organized far ssriariiy
purposes as follows:
1.	Sawmill Division
The Company shall supply to the bargaining agent once every three (3) months a complete seniority list which seniority List shall be kept up to date particularly in the event of a reduction c£ forces.
Divisional Seniority Lists;
a)	Sawmill Division
Section 4:	Promotions or .Tnh Openings
a)	Promotions shall he based on seniority, competency considered. Promotion into designated "Key lobs" is subject to the provisions of the Job Hakdrg Plan.
b)	lob openings (exceptthose csi base rate) shall be posted for a miimnun of twenty' four (24) hours.
12
Section 5:	'Uv-ofTs or Reduction of Forces
a) In the event of a reduction of forces, the last person hired shall be the first released, subject to the provisions of Sections 1 and 8 cf this Article.
Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions. the application of seniority as agreed to under Sub-section 5 (a) may be postponed for such periods as may be necessary, not exceeding three (3) working days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the committee as soon as possible.
cl	it During a reduction of forces where an employee’s seniority is such that
he/she will not be able to keep his/her regular job he/she may elect to apply his/her seniority to obtain a job paying a higher rate if he/she has previously held the job in the operation on a regular basis
ii)	During a reduction of fortes where an employee’s seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regularjob he/she may elect whether or not to apply his/her seniority to obtain a lower paid job or a job paying the same rate or accept a layoff intdl his/her regularjob becomes available. provided however:
1.	If du iug he layoff period the emp oyee wished to return to
>rk and so notified the Company, be/she shall be called ba to work a ► soon as his/her senio it entitled hin K a job
2.	The applicationof this provision shall not result in the employee, in the exercise of his/her rights, bumping an employee with less seniority.
Section 6:	Seniority Retention
Seniority during lay-off shall be retained on the following basis:
a)	Employees with less than one (l) year’s service shall retain their seniority £ara period of eight (8) months.
b)	Employees with one (1) or more year’s service shall retain their seniority frr one (I) year, plus one (1) additionalmonth for each year’s service up to an additional six (6) months period.
A laid-off employee's seniority retention is reinstated on the completion of one day's work.
13
Section 7:	Rehiring or Re-establishing of Forces
a)	In case cf re-establishment of forces, 'demoted' employees shall have first claim on their previously held jobs and in such event jobs shall not be posted.
b)	When rehirirg after a reduction cf forces, employees shall be notified by telegram, or registered letter, if residing within 100 miles' radius of 100 Mile House, and they shall be rehired in order of their Plant Seniority, provided that they reply to the telegram (or letter) in the affirmadve within ninety-six (96) hours and appear not later than seven (7) days from the tine the telegram or letter was sent out. However, employees resident in the Province of Alberta or the Yukon Territory shall be given one (1) additional day's time for reporting and any employees resident in any other Canadian Province or the United States shall receive two (2) additional day's time for reporting. All employees shall, upon returning to employment within the required number cf days of being notified by the company, retain all seniority rights. It shall be the employees' responsibility to keep the company informed of their addresses during lay-off.
Section 8:____Probation
a)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, all employees are hired an probation. The probationary period shall continue for thirty (30) working days, during which time such employees are to be considered temporary workers only, and during this same period no seniority rights shall be recognized. Upon completion of thirty (30) working days, such employees shall be regarded as regular employees mid shall be eititled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company's employ; provided however, that the probationary period cf thirty (30) working days snail only be cumulative within the three (3) calendar nmths following the date of entering employment.
b)	Clause (a) of this section does not apply to employees who move ftm one operation cf a Company to another operation cf the same Company within thirty (30) days for those laid-off; and within ninety (90) days for those terminated as a result of permanent closure.
c)	It is agreed that probationary employee; will have preference over Casual employees for any work performed during tne normal work week, subject to competency.
d)	It is further agreed that in the applicaticn cf c) above, probationary employees will be called in for work in accordance with their hiring dale, unless such call-in is beyond
i	_	, iod.
14
Section 9:
Reinstatement
In any case where an employee has been transferred by the Company to a Supervisory position and at a later date ceases to be a Supervisory worker and the Company desires to retain his/her services, reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit provided however, that Supervisory workers reinstated in the bargaining unit must return to the job held at the time of their promotion lo a Supervisory position.
Section 10:	Part-time and Temporary Employees
a)	Weekend workers and others not desirous or available for regular employment shall be regarded as casual employees, and shall not accrue any seniority.
b)	Workers who are hired for temporary employment and signify that they are available and who are in fact available for permanent employment shall be considered as relief worken and as soon as they have worked thirty (30) days within the three (3) calendar months period following their date of hiring, they shall accrue seniority from their date of hiring.
ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1:	Injury or Illness
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or in ness for the term of this Agreement, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the Company. The employee shall have a reasonable period of time to present such medical certificate. The employee shall report or cause to have reported the injury or illness which requires his/her absence lo the company as soon as may be reasonably possible.
Any employee desiring leave of absence nust obtain permission in writing from the
Company for such leave.
Section 3:	Union Business
a)	The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or elected to Union Office for a period up to and including two (2) years. Further leave of absence may be granted by mutual consent. Any employee who obtains such leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of his/her term of employment with the Union.
b)	The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union Conventions or as members of the negotiating committee of the TWA-CANADA in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
15
c)	In order for the Company to replace such employ& with a competent substitute before such employee receives leave of absence as set forth in Clauses (a) aid (b) above, the Company shall be given due notice in writing and, in the case cf (a), twenty (20) calendar days nouce, and in the case of (bj, five (5) calendar days notice shall be sufficient for all purposes
Settipqi;
Any leave of absence granted to an employee by the Company for a period of longer than fourteen (14) days, shall be subject to discussion aid approval between the Company and the Union
Section 5:	Compassionate Leave
The Company will grant leave of absence up to a maximum of six (6) months without pay to
employees for compassionate reasons or for educational or training or extended vacation
purposes, conditional on the following terms.
a)	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen
b)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for such application
c)	That the Company shaLL grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant, or may postpone leave for educational or training purposes where a suitable replacement is not available.
d)	That the Company shall be required Id notify the Shop Committee of its decision in
respect of any application for leave under this section
e)	It is agreed that employees requesting leave of absence for extended vacations during the months of July and August, shall only be granted such leave once every three (3) years, and that a record be kept for the purpose of rotating such leaves
f)	That applications for extended vacauons from January 1st to June 30th and September 3 st to December 31st shall be m accordance with the principle established in Article X, Section 2(b) of the Collective Agreement
g)	That employees making application for leave of absence for "extendedvacations. shall apply at least one (1) month in advance
h)	'All earned vacauons" must be taken in conjunction with an 'extended vacation leave'
i)	The Company will grant a reasonable period of extended maternity leave withoutpay to female employees where there is a valid reasai
16
Section 6:	Bereavement Leave
a)	When a death occurs to a member of regular full-time employee's Immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence for which he/she shah be compensated at his/her regular straight time hourly rate of pay for his/her regular work schedule for a maximum of three (3) days.
b)	Piece workers who are entitled to bereavement leave shall be compensated m accordance with the principles established in Article XU, Section 2 (B) of this Agreement.
c)	Members of the employee's immediate family are defined as the employee's spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law. father-in-law, stepparents. grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchildren, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law. and step children.
Compensable hours under the terms of this section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 7:	Jury Duty
a)	Any regular ll-ti mployee w is: equi red to pe form Jur Duty, Coroner s
Jury Crown ritn	or Coroner ; Wit less on a day on which they would normally
hav orked vill be eimbursed by the Company for the diffei ence between the pay
received for Jury Duty and their regular straight time hourly rate of pay for their regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8)per day or forty (40) per week less Statutory pay received for Jury Duty. The employee will be required^ to furnish proof of Jury Service and Jury Duty pay received.
m Any piece worker who is required to perform Jury Duty shall he compensated for the difference between Statutory pay received for Jury Duty and his/her job rate in accordance with the principle established in Article XII, Section 2 (b) of this Agreement.
c)	IfcUES paid for Jury D.ty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of
qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, hut will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 8:	Public Office
a) The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes to candidates for
Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to and including eight (E) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
17
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shall be grants as much leave as is necessary during the term of such office Municipal officeholders, where the tern of pufelic office e served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for conducting Municipal business
c)	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office
ARTICLE X - VACATIONS WITH PAX
With respect to vacations and vacation pay the following provisions will apply
Section *t One to Two Years Service
The annual vacation for employees with one (1) to two (2) years service covered by this
Agreement shall be two (2) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon five percent
(5%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or
eighty (30) hours at the hourly rate of the employees’ regularjob, whichever is greater
Section 2 Two to Seven Ifeats Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with two (2) to seven (7) years service covered by this Agreement shall be three (3) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon seven perceat (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and twenty (120) hours ± the hourly m e of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greater
b)	The additional cce (1) week vacation provided form this Section may be taken when convenient for the Companybut does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Secuon 1 herein
Section 3:____Seven to Fifteen Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with seven (7) to fifteen (15) years service covered by this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, aid the pay therefor shall be based upon nine percent (9%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater
b)	The additional one (1) week vacation provided for io this Section may be taken when convenient for the company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1 and 2 herein
18
Section 4:	Fifteen to Twentv-Four Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with fifteen (15) to twenty-four(24) years service coveredby this Agreement shall be five (5) weeks, aid the pay therefor shall be based upon eleven percent (11 %) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred (200) hours at the hourly rate of the employee’s regularjob, whichever is greater,
b)	Subjectto the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1, 2 or 3,
Section 5:	Twentv-Four to Thirty V<=s=ire Spwice
a)	The annual vacation for employees with twenty-four (24) to thirty (30) years service
coveredby this Agreement shall be six (6) weeks, aid the pay therefor shall be based
rn thirteen percent (13%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee ing the period of entitlement, or two hundred aid forty (240) hours at the hourly rate of the employee’s regularjob, whichever is greater,
b) Subjectto the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacations periods provided in Sections 1, 2, 3 or 4.
Section 6; Thirty Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with thirty (30) yean service coveredby this Agreement shall be seven (7) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon fifteen percent (15%)of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred aid eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate of the employee’s regularjob, whichever is greater.
b)	Subjectto the provisionsof Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Secttim may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Section I, 2, 3, 4 or 5.
Section 7? Vacation Pav on Termination
An employee whose employment is terminated shall receive vacation pay at the appropriate
percentage of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement in accordance with
the employee’syears of service.
Section 8:	Vacation Time
a)	Vacations for employees shall be taken at such time as mutually agreed upon by the Shop Committee aid the Company when quantity aid regularity oT production shall not be impaired
b)	.Ml earned vacations must be taken.
19
Section 9:	Payment of Vacation Pay
1a)	Die calculation and c mp. ison of the vacation f t) ; n un s devel >pt > tl
percentage of gross t ige: method and the hours tim s be regular jol	; t	101
will be completed and the greater amount paid to the employee withh	iru	(14)
da t f th c	i do y h it-< ff d t > tli nployee’s; i n ry i :e
Tl e company s j ese it <	r imi’ s y date method shall be continued unless a
change is agreed upon between the Company and 1: Local Union.
b)	For the pu poses of tl tic! the rate of the employee’s regular job will be the rate of the employee’s regular d at the date of the common vacation :ut-off date or tl i loj ee’s an iii iy da as f case may t
c)	in the case of a pieceworker, the rate of the employee's regular job will be
determined by computing the employee’s hourly average ea lunj sfir the days :t 11> ice 1 li iri lg the pa; period in nediai ;1; pi ec dii g th s i c ac cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date i: the case may be
d)	Cn J date when an employee completes one (1), two (2), seven (7), fiftec (1
r four (24) >r thi y 30)	s service and where there i a non ' i-> date
for i employee it th c era	t ie emp! ryee * ill r sceive
In the case f two ( , seven (7), fit se i (15), twenty-four (24) oi thirty (30) y« rs, * j e (2%) of his/her gross earnings between the date of his/her last anniversary la e rad the date of the l st common cut-off date.
Section 10:	Vacation Pav - Percentage of Wages hfchod|
The following shall be consideredas days actually worked for determining vacations with
pay for an employee after one (1) continuous year of employment.
a)	Absence on Waiters’ Compensation up to a period of one (I) year, provided that the employee returns to his/her employment
b)	Absence due to illnessup to a period ofone (1) year, provided that the employee rerums to his/her employment. The employer shall have the right to require a certificate ftm a qualified medical practitioner.
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordance with the terms and conditions of ArticleIX, Sa±im6.
20
d)	Absence due to time service of Jury Duty, including Coroner's Jury, or time served as a Crown Witness or Coroner’s Witness in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 7.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the employer in writing shall be credited towards entidement for annual vacation, hut time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 11:	Qualifications for Vacation Pav - Regular Job Rate Method
a)
b)
i)	In order for an employee to qualify for the amount generated by the hours times the regularjob late method,the employee mast have worked a minimum of fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in the employee1 s first year of service and a minimum of one thousand (1,000) hours during the employee's succeeding year of entitlement
ii)	Where there is a common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in (i) above, the calculation pgHnH shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeeding year.
ijj)	Where there is no common vacation pay cut-off dale, for purposes of
calculating minimum hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee's anniversary date in one year to his/her anniversary date in the succeeding year
For purposes of computing the requisite hours the following will be included:
i)	AH hours worked.
ii)	Statutory Holiday hours
iii)	Jury and Crown Witness Duty.
iv)	Bereavement leave
v)	Vacation hours.
vj)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of an accident
recognized as compensable by the Workers' Compensation Board and suffered during the course of employment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee returns to his/her employment.
21
vii)	Time not ee g ie ( t) year, iost as 5 resi It of a non-
xxupationa accident or i Jr ess, shall be n ;ide ~ed as time ed for he purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that at the t of tl id if >r ill the m ]< iy « s sen on the payroll for not less i one (!) j r id ia he/she returns to his/her employment. It is understood that the employer may require that the employee pirn d< a
rftttifiratK frnm a ntialifimi	rvaf'titinn^r
viii) T i e lost as a result of layoff shall not be considered as time worked for s purpose of qualifying for requisite hours
be) Employees who report for work and w; 10 receive call tin p
shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any s h : hi ^ I j	of
computing requisite hours under this Section An] employe) ? qualifies for call time in a day shall reo ive redit under this S n for eight (8) hours or credit for th< hoi s f< which v were paid, whichever is greater.
x)	Ml h mi
a It
in more than one 1 division of the parent company as • or layoff
Section 12;_Employment Standards Act
C , 1980, c. 0, and
eij shall become
c and conditions 1 devices mutually
ignelupon 5h ill be pi 'id i b; the Company.
Section 2
The management of every operation shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee
fc
(h inaftei 11 A "Safety Cc iitt a ”J
size of the aeration. M< r it > of :1
it s bj th e lployt ; t th	' f iy Si ip oy
11< e I the op :a	h ai least one year’s ex
l_______3;
(4) t r Ivi (12) nb iz iii g i the to u uti ;h 11 be a ig ted in qi d
representatives shall be regular ience.
V	j Safety Committee meetings a eld in the same week and the total
li spent by any employee exceeds two (2)fcours provided for, e; ployees are tc b
i at st aight ti n< rates for all time spent on inspections and Safety Committee meetings outside of normal working 1
22
Employees who attend Safety Committee meetings or accident investigations during working hours shall not suffer any loss of pay. Plant inspections for safety will be done outside of the employee’s normal working hours, unless otherwise agreed.
Section 4:
Anyone or all employees working in the immediate proximity when a fatal accident has occurred may, without discrimination, refrain from working the balance of the shift.
Section 5:
Effective July 1, 1989, an IWA-Forest Industry Safety and Health Research Program will be established on the following general principles:
a)	The Plan vzDl bejointly trusteed.
b)	The Plan is to be funded on the basis of an Industry contribution of one-half cent (Vi cent) per hour per employee per hour worked, effective July 1, 1989.
c)	The trustees will be appointed in the fust year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish objectives and operating and administrative procedures.
ARTICLE Xn - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Section It
a)	Ali employees who work on New s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be paid rate and one half for hours worked.
b)	In the event one of the above Statutory Holidays falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the Holiday.
cl In the event that one of the above Statutory Holidays falls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or the succeeding Monday, or as agreed upon between the Company and the Shop Committee.
d)	When a Statutory Holiday falls on a Friday; employees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, by mutual agreemenf between the Company and the Plant Committee may work on a Eririay Statutory Holiday at the straight time job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday.
e)	In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, and when the Company and the Shop Committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
23
f)	At the option of the Company but whenever possible by mutual agreement with the Shop Committee, either Good Friday, or Easter Monday shall became the designated Easter Holiday, and the Company shall notify its employees of the designation at least one (1) week prior to the said Holiday.
Section 2:
a) An hourly rate or piece work employee who qualifies for the following holidays, that is: New Saar's Day, Gbod. Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day, under the conditions set out below shall be paid forthe holiday his/her regular job rate of pay for hidher regular work schedule. The hours so paid forthe Statutory Holiday snail not be includedin the weekly work schedule.
р)	The holiday rate of piece work employees shall be established by computing their daily average earnings for days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) days.
с)	An employee working on apaid holiday shall be paid, in addition to his/her holiday pay, rate and one half for any hours worked on a shift designated as a Holiday
arift".
d)	An employee to qualify for holiday pay, must have been on the payroll thirty (30) calendar day, immediately preceding the holiday, and must have worked hidfier last regularly scheduled work day before, and his/her fust regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his absence was due to a compensableoccupational injury or illness, which occurred within six (6) months preceding the holiday, or such employee was on authorized leave of absence. In the case of illness, or injury, the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
Notwithstanding the other requirements of this section, an employee may only qualify for Statutory Holiday Pay if he/she works one (1) day before and one (f) day after the holiday providing the said two (2) days fall within a sixty (60) calendar pay period. Employees whale on leave of absence under Article IX, Section 3(a) or any employee while a member of a negotiating committee under Section3(b) shall not qualifyforpaid Statutory Holidays
e)	Employees as defined under Article VUI, SectionlO shall not receive pay for Statutory Holidays.
This section becomes effective September 1, 1978. This Personal Floating Holiday is in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day but this section shall come into operation on its effective date even if Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed.
a) Regular full-time employees will be granted one (1) Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of the Agreement, to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss cf production.
24
b)	When the Personal Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his/her regular job rate of pay for his/her regular work schedule, subject to the following conditions.
i)	A new employee must have heal on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday
ii)	An employee will not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for more tfian nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury.
iii)	An employee shall apply on an approved form at least Seven (7) days in advance, for his/her Personal Floating Holiday. The employee shall receive notice of the disposition of his/her request a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday.
iv)	I* an employee is required to work on his/her Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date has been designated for such holiday, the employee shall be paid overtime for such work at the rate of time and one half. The employee will then be entitled to fake the holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon.
v)	PersonalFloating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 30th of each contract year will be scheduled by Management.
vi)	A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on an employee’s regular rest day.
vii)	Where an employee chooses Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating
straight time rates will apply.
ARTICLE Xin - CALL TIME Section 1:
Any employee reporting to work on the call of the Company shall be paid their regular rate of pay for the entire period spent at the place of work in response to the call with a minimum of, in any one day:
a)	Two hours pay at the employee’s regular rate except when the employee’s condition is such that he/she is not competent to perform his/her duties, or he/she has failed lo comply with the accident prevention regulations of the Workers’ Compensation Board; or
b)	If the employee commences work, four (4) hours pay at his/her regular rate, except where his/her work is suspended because of inclement weather or reasons completely beyond the control of the Company.
25
Section 2:
Notice cancelling the work call for any Division of the Company shall be sufficient if given
in the following manner:
a)	First 9iin - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given the previous evening at 10 00pm and at 10 30pm or not later than one aid one half(lW) hours before the shift commences, by means of two (2) broadcasts within a half hour period
b)	Second Shin • Notice cancelling the call for work shall he given between 12 00 noon aid 1 00 p m but not later than three (3) hours before the shift commences, by means of two (2) broadcasts within a half hour period
C) Thud Shift • Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given between 5 00 p m aid 6 00 p m , but not later than three (3) hours before the shift commences
All broadcasts shall be over Radio Station CKBX
ARTICLE XIV - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
When a grievance anses in the plant, under the terms of this Agreement it shall be dealt with
in the following manner
a)	The individual employee and the Job Steward shall first take up the matter with the foreman in charge cf the work, within fifteen (15) days
b)	If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled in this way, the same individual employee, with the Committee, shall take up the problem with the foreman
c)	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be reduced to writing by both Parties when the Committee shall take up the grievance with the Plant Superintendent If desired, the Union Business Agent shall accompany the Committee, and either Party shall have the right to request the presence of the employee involved
d)	If the grievance is not i±m satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Union and Management
e)	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided
f)	If a grievance has not advanced to the nest stage, under (b), (c), (d), or (e) within fourteen (14) days after completion cf the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned and all rights of recourse w the grievance procedure shall be at an end Where the Union i s not able to observe this ume limit by reason of the absence of the aggrieved employee or the Committee form the operation, the set ume limit shall not apply The Union shall be bound to proceed in such a case as quickly as may be reasonably possible
26
ARTICLE XV - RIGHT OF REFERENCE
Section 1:
If the Company and the Union fail to agree upon an interpretationof the Agreement, either Party shall have the right to refer the matter to the Joint Industry Committee (hereinafter called " Joint Committee") and if either Party does make reference, the other Pany must accept the reference.
Section 2i
The Joint Committee shall consist of three (3) representatives selected ty the IWA* CANADA, Negotiating Committee, and three (3) representatives selected by the Company.
Section 3;
Where an interpretation ofthe Agreement has been referred to the Joint Committee, this reference shall be for the period of forty-eight(48) hours or longer by mutual consent <£ the Parties to this Agreement. In cases the Joint Committee agree upon a recommendation 0 f Interpretation, this shall be furnished in writing to the Union and to the Company
Section 4:
In event the Joint Committee members disagree, all the facts in the case as foundby the Union and the Union members of be Joint Committee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submined to the Company and to the Union members involved The facts in the case as foundby the Company and the Company members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing and given to the Union member employees for their information
Section 5;
If a satisfactory interpretation on the point in question is not reached, either Pany may refer the question to arbitration as hereinafterprovided.
ARTICLE XVI ■ ARBITRATION AND INTERPRETATION
Section 1;_____Interpretation
In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretationof this Agreement, which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the maner shall be determined by interpretation in the following manner:
a) Either Party may notify the other Party, in writing, by registered mail, of the question or questions to fie interpreted. After receiving such notice and statement, each of the Parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreter named in this section
27
b)	The decision of the Interpreter will be final and binding upon the Company and the
Union
c)	It is agreed that the Parties will arrange, as soon as possible, to name a person acceptable to both Parlies to be the Interpreter for the purposes of this section
<j) In the event said Interpreter is unable to deal with any maner under this section, the Parties will meet and mutually agree upon a temporary replacement
Section 2:	Arbitration
In the case of any dispute arising under this Agreement, which the Fames are unable to settle between themselves, the maner shall be determined by arbitration w the following manner:
Either Parry may notify the other Party in writing, by registered mail, of the question or questions to be arbitrated Each of the Parties shall, within five (o) days, refer the matter to the chosen Arbitrator
The decision ofthe Arbitrator will be final and binding upon the Company and the Union
The chosen Arbitrator shall be selected on a rotation system and no Arbitrator shall deal with more titan one question at any one time
If any Arbitrator finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employee shall be reinstated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his/her rights and privileges preserved underthe terras ofthis AgtWment, provided always that dit is shown to the Arbitrator that the employee has been in receipt c£ wages during the period between discharge (or suspension) and reinstatement, or date of failure to re-hire and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted frcm wages payable by this Company pursuant to this section
The Parties agree with the principle of one-man arbitration The Arbitrator will be y chosen on a rotation basis fran a group of Arbitrators which will be selected by the Parties
In the event either Party is dissatisfied with the permanent choice of an Arbitrator, the Parties agree that other choices of Arbitrators will be considered by both Parties
Section 3:
The Company and the Union iall I t in equal proportions the expenses and allowances of the Arbitrator and the stenographic and secretarial ex : nd t
Any such arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held at 100 Mile House, B. C., or such other place as may be decided.
4
28
Sec<mn_5:
A Committee shall be established to develop and Implement a system of expedited arbitration of grievances. The chairman of this Committee will be H, Allan Hope, Q.C. The Committee shall report lo the parties not later than December 1, 1984.
■ . .r —fc-iE xvn - PAY DAYS
'pany shall provide for pay days every second week and each employee shall be d with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
____________________ENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1;
Official Uhial Representatives shall obtain access to the Company's operations for the purpose of this Agreement by written permission which shall be granted by the Company upon request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
Section 2:	No Strike Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Union shall not cause, promote, sanction, or authorize any strike, sit-down, slow-down, sympathetic strike or other interference with work by the employees for any cause whatsoever until ail provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Company.
Section 3:	No Lockout Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Company shall not create or institute any lockout of the employees with respect to any dispute between the Company and the Union, or the Company and its employees, until all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedures have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Union or its employees.
Section 4;
a)	The Union may refuse to handle material produced by a strike bound £um
b)	The Union shall have the right to respect another Union's picket line
C) The Company shall provide plug-ins (for block heaters only) in the parking lot to accommodate all employees at no cost to the employees.
^ Job Basting and Tterirriig Programs will be instituted as agreed to between the local CoranLttee and the Company.
29
Section 5:	Planerman Training
It is agreed that the Parties to the Agreement will meet jointly to discuss and implement a Planerman’s Training Program.
a)
b)
Effective July 1, 3 982, sixty (60) days notice of closure will be provided. _
Effective July 1, 1982, employees terminated by the Company because closure of a manufacturing plant shall be entitled to severance pay equal t weeks pay for each year df continuous service aid thereafter in wcremem*-^ ^ completed months of service.
ARTICLE XIX • FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
Forestry Environmental Committees shall be established by the Company and the local Union.
The details concerning the structure, operation and terms of reference must be agreed to by the Company and the local Union prior to implementation.
ARTICLE XX . HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 1:	Provincial Board of Trustees
Weldwood of Canada Limited, togetherwith Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the HrmHl on Northern Interior Forest Employment Relations, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Canfor Limited and the IWA-CANADA to establish one set of trustees for the purpose of developing a common text, a common trust agreement, anda commonemployeebookletforthe six Health and Welfare Plans, covering Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismembermentlnsurance and Weekly Indemnity.
The Parties agree that a Joint Committee, representing Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the'Council on Northern Interior Forest EmploymentRelations. Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp aid Tints:Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Limited, aid the rWA-CANAJDA, will be established to study the most effective method of administrationof the Plans, rqxtdngto the parties no later than July 1, 1984.
Section 2:__Weldwood - BY A Board of Trustees
The Board of Trustees, carposed of two (2) members representing IWA-CANADA and two
(2)	members representing the Company, are responsible for the administration of the rv/A-Weldwood Health and Welfare Plan. The Trustees are also responsible for the selection of carrier, funding, adjudicationof compassionate appeals, andHealth and Welfare problems directly related to the plan.
30
Section 3:	Medical
a)	The Company agrees to provide medical coverage for its employees by participating in the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia.
b)	The Company agrees to provide Extended Health Benefits, including hospitalization coverage up to a maximum of $8.50 per day, lo its employees by participating in a plan entered into between the Company and an appropriate carrier.
c)	Effective July 1, 1982, a Vision Care Program be instituted to provide for payment up to a maximum of One Hundred Dollars (1100.00)per person in any twenty-four consecutive month period for charges incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription.
Section 4:	Insurance Coverage
a)	Group Life Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
effective July I, 1991, $45,000.00 effective July I, 1992, $45,000.00 effective July 1, 1993, $45,000.00
b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
effective July 1, 1991, $45,000.00 effective July I, 1992, $45,000.00 effective July I, 1993, $45,000.00
c.) Weekly Indemnity as follows: effective January 1, 1992 in the amount of Four Hundred and Twenty-six Dollars (5426.00) per week for fifty-two (52) weeks.
Weekly Indemnity will commence the first day of hospitalization as a bed patient, and in cases where lost work time results in surgery. Absences due to the same or related causes will be considered continuous unless the employee has returned to full-time work for at least four (4) continuous weeks between absences.
The Union agrees that, if the Company maintains Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits which will meet the standards requirements for full premium reduction for "wage loss replacement plan under the Unemployment Insurance Act" the employee's 5112th share of the premium reduction is retained as payment in kind in the provisions of the Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits.
31
I)
Third Party Subrogation
The parties agree to recommend to the Trustees of the Health and Welfare Han that effective on the dace of ratification cf this memorandum a thud party subrogation clause be adopted so that the Weekly Indemnity Han can be reimbursed from damages recovered frana liable third party for illness, injury or income loss The Plan will be entitled to recover the fill! amount of benefits pard to the member which exceeds 100% c£the member's pre-disability gross income Gross income will be calculated by using the member's regular hourly job me times (x) 40 hours Trustees to work out the application and details, including the deduction oflegal fees from the settlement and the execution of a reimbursement agreement.
d)	The Officers of Local 1-425, IWA shall, upon written request, be permitted to
examine statements of premium income ana claims disbursements ofthe above insurance plan Such requests will not be granted more frequently than once every three (3) months during the term <± chis Agreement
Section Si Dental Plan
A Dental Han will be provided based on the following general principles
i)	Basic dental services Baa A) - Elan pays 80% cf approved schedule of fees
ii)	Prosthetics, crowns, and bridges (Plan B) - Elan pays 50% of approved schedule of fees
iii)	Orthodootic Elan (C) - Elan pays 50% of approved schedule of fees (lifetime maximum $2,000 00) There shall be no waiting period for this benefit
Section6:	General Principles
a) Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by the Company
5) Participation in the Plan is m be a condition of employment
c)	Any new employee who has not worked in covered employment in the last eighteen (18) months willbe eligible to become a covered employee on the first day ofthe month following completion ofthe probationary period However, for such employee coverage for the Medical Services Elan aid for the Extended Health Benefit will apply on the first day of the month following the date of employment.
32
d)	Coverage will be portable in all units covered by collective agreements between members of Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employment Relations. Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Limited and the IWA, and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the Industry.
e)	Coverage during layoff will be provided as follows:
i)	Employees with one (1) or more years of seniority • six (6) months.
ii)	Employees with more than three (3) months but less than one (1) year seniority • three (3) months.
0 In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur, there must be a rerum to
regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he/she is employed for 10 working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
Also, an employee who returns to work for at least one working day and less than 10 working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any layoff coverage to which he/she was entitled, if the 2Hall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
g)	There will be no duplication of Weekly Indemnity and Pension Han payments
h)	Weekly Indemnity coverage vail be eliminated for an employee on an extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 5; compassionate Leave provided, however, that such employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity coverage on the agreed-upon day of return to work. In order to qualify for this coverage the employee must have returned to his/her place of residence in British Columbia unless his/her disability required him/her to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements of the claims adjudication carrier. In the case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurred during an extended leave of absence, the Trustees have the right to review certain circumstances
i)	Employees on extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 5; Compassionate Leave will pay their own premiums for the Medical Services Elan, Extended Health Benefit and Dental Plan, while the premiums for Group Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will be paid by the employer during such extended leave of absence.
ARTICLE XXI - LONG TERM DT.qBRTT.TW PT,AN
a) The Plan will become effective July 1, 1982.
33
C)
d)
e)
1 i Plan to be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis with c mtributions of 20 cents per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute K cents and the *lovee will contribute 10 cents	ing Jub, 1, 1988.
HI ; J ly 1, 1993, the Plan 1 > be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis * i
(22c) per hour per employee per hour worked of eleven cents (lie) and the employee will com bu
co tioi s of twenty-two cents wl the I idustry will contribut< eleven cents (1IC)
A to in of st ’ill be « in ted with equal representation from the Union and the Industry, to be responsible for establishing the terms of the Plan d th on i administratio
The Trustees will select a qualified actuary to assist them and to ensure the establishment of actuarial] y sound reserved to fund the benefits provided by the Plan.
The Trustee will enter into a Trust Agreement which will include provision for a d io settle any major dispute that may arise with regard to the provisions of the Plan
ARTICLE XXT[......... REST INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN
The Industry contributionto the Pension Plan of cne dollar seventy cents ($1.70) per hour per employee per hour world, which became effective July i, 1988, will be increased by seventy cents (70?) per hour, effective July 1, 1992, to two dollars forty cents ($2.40) per hour per employee per hour worked. EffectiveJuly I, 1993, employee contributions often cents (10?) per hour per employee per hour worked will be added to the above contribution rate.
ARTTCT.F, XXm , APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
a)
b)
c)
The Company and the Union agree to institutethe Apprenticeship Tinirriig Program for Tradesmen. The following trades to be pan of the Apprenticeship T nmin g program are:
Carpenters	Machinists
Electricians	Millwrights
Forklift & Carrier Mechanics	Welders
Heavy Duty Mechanics	Fitters, Filers & Bencbmen
Pipefitter - Steamfitters
Where the Company requires a person or persons to maintain a valid pressure certificate, they will notify the Local Union. The Company will pay the cost of examinationfee and fare allowance and lost time wages for the taking (f the exam.
If an official c£ the Department of Public Works requires a Welder io attend school,
and the Company, at their discretion, still requires foe pressure certificate, foe
Company will pay foe cost of foe examination fee. fare allowance, aid net lost time wages.
34
(j) The Company is prepared to form ajoint committee with the IWA Local 1-425 during the term of the 1977-79 Agreement to update the Apprenticeship Training Program to reflect current practices.
e)	The Company and rWA Local 1-425 will meet and develop appropriate tens and
selection standards for trades and planerman categories during the term of the 197981 Agreement. This will include consideration of an opportunity for employee selfappraisal.
ARTICLE XXIV - SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION
The Sawmill Rate Determination Program as negotiated between the Forest Industrial Relations Association and the IWA-CANADA will be instituted in accordance with Supplement No. 3.
ARTICLE XXV - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Section 1:	Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Union six (6) months in advance of intent to institute changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or laying off of employees
Section 2:	Retraining
The Company shall co-operate with the Government of British Columbia and participate in every possible in training or retraining of employees so affected.
Section 3:	Rate Adjustment
at An employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of mechanization,
technological change or automation will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three
(3)	months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job
At the end of this six (6)month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply. However, such employee will have the option of terminating his/her employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 4 below, providing he/she exercises this option within the above referred to six (6) month period.
35
b) Following an application of (a) above, where an employee is set back to a lowerpad job because of an application of Article VH3 - Seniority, brought on by mechanization, technological changeor automation, he/she will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of hie setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular Job at the m e of the setbackand the rate of his/her new regular job At the end. of ibis six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular Job will apply
Section 4:	Severance Pav
Employees discharged, lard off, or displaced from their regular job because of mechanization, technological change orautoraauon shall be entitled to severance pay of one weeks pay for each year of service with the Company The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks pay This section shall not apply to employees covered by Secuon 3(b) above
ARTTCT.E XXVI - SAFE " EQUIPMENT
a)
b)
Where the following articles of equipment are required to be used by the Company or by the Worker's Compensation Board, the Company shall
i)
u)
iii)
Supplynew employees with the articles cf equipment as required
Supply employees moving to another department with the articles of equipment they require and that they do not have attem eof the
move, or
Replace articles of equipment as required when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair by an employee at no cost to the employee
1
2
3
4
Aprons Hard Hats
Welding Goggles, etc Flotation Equipment
5	Dust Protection
6	Eye Protection
7	Ear Protection
8	Gloves
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all articles of equipment will be replaced only when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair, otherwise the replacement will he at the expense cf the employee
The employer shall be required to make available at cost to those employees who are required to wear them the following articles
1	Caulk Boots	3	Rain Gear
2	Safety Shoes	4	Coveralls
36
c)	Companies that supplied safely equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effectivedate of this Agreement will continue to (Jo so at no cost to the employee
d)	An employee who is required to wear caulk boots ty the Workers’ Compensation Board shall receive annually a One Hundred D o h ($100.00) caulk boot allowance
i)	If he/she has six (6) months or more seniority, or
ii)	Upon obtaining six (6) months sericaity
iii)	Season lay-off shall not interfere with the qualifyingperiod herein.
ARTICLE XXVn - TOOL INSURANCE
The Company, at its own expense, shall insure for damage or loss caused ty fire car flood, the tools of its employees which are required in the performance of their work. Thi s provision for tool insurance shall also apply to loss ty theft where the tools are sorted in a designated place of safety within the control ofthe company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of Fifty D o h ($50.00) in respect of each employee’sclaim.
ARTICLE XXVm - CONTRACTING OUT
a)	The Company till not contract out any work that is performed ty employees in the Bargaining IMt at the effective date of the agreement.
b)	Cument practices in operations shall be agreed on with the Local Union in writing. Util such time as agreement is reached the above Clause (A) only will apply.
ARTICLE XXIX • DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1;
This Agreement is a renewal and revision of the previous Collective Agreements entered into between the Company and the Uim on July 1, 1988.
Section 2;
This Agreement shall be effective from and after the latday of July, 1991, to midnight the 30tb dav oMuq^j 1994. and thereafter, from year to ySSfyunleisAVhtien riuuce of a contrary intention is given by either party to the other party.
The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the Head Office of the Company or at the Local QfiSoeupon the Local Officers of the Uhim,at least four (4) months prior to the expiry of any contract period.
If no agreement is reached at the expiry of this Contract, and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall rsiain in force up util the time the subsequent agreement is reached or negotiations are discontinued by either party.
37
Section 3:
The Parties hereto agree that the operation cf Section 66 (2) of the Labour Code of TVi-H.ch Columbia Act, 1973, is excluded from the Master Agreement
SIGNED this ll/Ju day
FOR:
FOR:
WELD WOOD OF CANADA LIMITED	IWA CANADA,
100 MILE HOUSE OPERATIONS	Lccal 1-425, C L.C,
38
WAGE SCALE - A
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATIONPROGRAM GROUP AND RATE CHART
Group
Level
Effective
June 15, 1991 Per Hour
Effective lune 15, 1992 Per Hou
Effective
lune 15,1993 Per flour____
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 U
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22 23
$17.07
17.20 17.37 17.51 17.67 17.94
18.20
18.44 18.71 19.03 19.40 19.74 20.08
20.44 20.77 21.11 21.47 21.82 22.14 22.59 23.01
23.44 23.87
$17.07
17.20 17.37 17.51 17.67 17.94
18.20
18.44 18.71 19.03 19.40 19.74 20.08
20.44 20.77 21.11 21.47 21.82 22.14 22.59 23.01
23.44 23.87
$17.92
18-05
18-22
18.36
10. 17
19.05
19.29 19.56 19.88 20.25 20.59 20,93
21.29 21.62 21.96 22.32 22.67 22.99 23,44 23.86
24.29 24.72
GROW 1
EVALUATED CATEGORIES- SAWMILL
JUNE 15/91	mm jfiyq?	KINS 15193
$17.07	$17.07	$17.92
Strip Layer strip Filer
Clean-Up (overload)
GROUP2 -	17.20	17.20	18.05
Conv ey or C hase r/C lean - Up Lumber Wrapper
39
JUNE 15/91	JUNE 15/92
GROUP3 -	$17.37	$17 37
Re-entry Hoist Operator/Sawmill Breakdown Hoist Operator/PUnermill
GROUP4 -	17.51	17.51
Chip Car Attendant/Car Mover
Garage Helper
Load Strapper/Log lEzd.
Chipper Feeder
Log Deck Sorter (Barkers)
Deck Chaser (Canter & Chip-N-Saw Sorter)
Log Deckman (Cut-off Saws)
Car Blocker
Kiln S warn per/Du image Maker/Powersaw Clock Watchman/Kiln duties
GROUP5 -	17.67	17.67
Dry Chain/Lurabcr Filer (Outside)
Flatcar Layout/Yard Clean-up/
Miile Equipment J-Bar Sorter Bin Operator/Sawmill I-Bar Sorter Bin Operatot/Planennili Optimizer Trimmer Atteodant/Sawmill Yard Clean-Up/Mobile Equipment Operator Fire Protection/Watchman
GROUP6 -	17.94	17.94
J-Bar Operator/Plancrmill J-Bar Operator/Species Select Optimizer Edger Aaendant
Log Cut-off Saw Operator J-Bar Stacker Operator/Sawmill
GROUP7 -	18.20	18.20
Auto Package Press Operator Planer Feeder
TSaad Utility/Forkiift Operator
IUNE 15/93
$18.22
18.36
18 52
18.79
19.05
40
JUNE 15/91	JUNE 15/92
GROW 8-	$18-44	$18.44
Log Cut-off Saw/Log Sizer Operation Forklift operator (Standard)
Twin Auto Barker operator Warehouseman
Optimizer Trimmer/Reman Dropgate Board Edger Feeder
GROUP 9 -	18.71	18.71
Forklift operator (Cat 966)
Planer Feeder/Setup 1-fen
35" Mechanical Barker Operator
GROW 10-	19.03	19.03
Kiln Operator/Konus Hot Oil System Circular Gangsaw operator (2 decks)
Weighmaster Log Scaler/Licensed
GROW 12 -	19.74	19.74
Breakdown Units (Twin Band Resaw, Chip-N-Saw, Chipper Canter)
Log Loader Operator/Cat 966
MJaOe Equipment Operator/Yard Maintenance
GROW 14 -	20.44	20.44
Planennan #1
Log Loader Operator/LeToumeau
M.S.R. Operator
Quality Control Co-ordinator
GROW 15 -	20.77	20.77
G.S.L.A. Grader/Grade Reader
JUNE 15/93
$19.29
19.56
19.88
20.25
20.59
21.62
41
WAGE SCALE-B
NON-EVATJ JATED CATEGORIES
CATEGORY	DUMB 15/91	JUNE 15/92	JUNE. 15/93
MAINTENANCE
ELECTRICIAN
HEAVY DUTY MECHANIC
MILLWRIGHT _________
PIPEFITTER/STEAMFITTER CONSTRUCTION MILLWRIGHT/ CARPENTER
Journeyman
Certificate)	$22,275
Journeyman	22.065
Improver (3rd Year
Apprenticeship complete)	19.47
Improver (2nd Year
Apprenticeship complete)	18.92
Helper (1st Year
Apprenticeship complete)	18.435
Helper	18.17
$22,275
22.065
19 47
18.92
18.435
18.17
$23,125
22.915
20.32
19.77
19.285
19.02
MACHINIST
Journeyman (with
Certificate)	22.275
Journeyman	22.065
Improver (3rd Year
Apprenticeship Complete)	19.56
Improver (2nd Year Apprenticeship Complete)	19.00
Helper (1st Year
Apprenticeship Complete)	18.525
Helper	18.265
22.275
22.065
19.56
19.00
18.525
18.265
23.125
22.915
20.41
19.85
19.375
19.115
WEI.DEB
Journeyman (see Note 1)	22.275
Journeyman (wiiii applicable DPW Ticket)	22.09
Journeyman	21.86
22.275
22.09
21.86
23.125
22.94
22.71
Note 1: Must be qualified as required under the Standard Forest Industry Pfeldirg
Specifications and either having completed the three year J&asxtdceship Program or having worked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours as a Welder.
42
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/91	JUNE 15/9?
AUTO MECHANIC
Journeyman
(with Certificate)	$22.09	$22.09
Journeyman	21.88	21.88
Improver (3rd Tfesar
Apprenticeship Complete)	19.47	19.47
improver (2nd Year
Apprenticeship Complete)	18.92	18.92
Heloer (1st Year
Apprenticeship Complete) 18.435	18.435
Helper	18.17	18.17
PLANER MECHANIC	)
BLACKSMITH	)
BOILERMAKER	)
SHIPWRIGHT	)
MAINTENANCE MECHANIC )
Journeyman
(withcertificate)	22.09	22.09
Journeyman	21.88	21.88
PAINTER
Journeyman
(with Certificate)	21.91
Journeyman	21.68
Improver	18.91
Helper	17.995
21.91 21.68
18.91 17.995
FTT.TNG ROOM
a) Benchman
Benchman (with
Certificate)	22.96	22.96
Benchman	22.75	22.75
Benchman Helper	22.275	22.275
to Circular Saw Filer
Circular Saw Filer
(with certificate)	22.275
Circular Saw Filer	22.065
Saw Filer Helper	21.915
22.275
22.065
21.915
43
JUNE 15/93
$22.94
22.73
20.32
19.77
19.285
19.02
22.94
22.73
22.76 22.53
19.76 18.845
23.81
23.60
23.125
23.125
22.915
22.765
category
JUNE 15/91	JUNE 15/92
c) Saw Fitter
Saw Finer (with Certificate)
Saw Finer Saw Finer (1st 3fear Complete)
Saw Fitter Helper
$21,915
21.695
18.92
18.17
$21,915
21.695
18.92
18.17
\fTSrF.II.ANEOtJS
First Aid tickets - Occupational Race +
"C"	Ticket	.30/hr.
"B"	Ticket	,40/hr.
"A"	Tidet	,50/hr,
"AA"	Ticket	.60/hr.
Grioderman
Oiler
Ifenrl Buckei
19.38
18.595
19.67
19.38
18.595
19.67
44
JUKE 15/^3
$22,765
22.545
19.77
19.02
20.23
19 445 20.52
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2
JOURNEYMAN TRADESMAN CATEGORIES
As referred to ii Article V, Section 1, of this Agreement.
Carpenter
Electrician
Forklift and Carrier Mechanic
Heavy Duty Mechanic
Machinist
Millwright
Pipefiner-Steamfitter
Welder
Fitters
Filers
Benchman
45

SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM  
Section 1
The IWA-CANADA and Forest Indunrial Relations limited agrw to implement and continue the provisions of this Article of the Coast Master Agreement as administered by Regional CouncilNo. 1 of the International Woodworkers of America and Forest Industrial Relations Limited. The IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Fore-u Industrial Relations Limited shall be responsible for all aspects of the Program.
Section 2; Purpose and Method
The purpose of the Program shall be the ran icing of applicable hourly paid categories and placing them in groups according tet heir relative value within the B. C. Coast Sawmill Indusuy by using a method cf agreed upon benchmark categories and related job
descriptions.
Where new or significantly changed Jobs do not fit an existing benchmark job
description, the Parties agree to group such jobs by comparison to existingjobs when possible, in order to keep benchmark job descriptions to a minimum.
The Parties agree that the Details of Agreement as per Appendix No. 1 of the Memorandum ctf Agreement dated February 19, 1992 in respect of Mechanization, Technological Change or Automation will be implemented. Rate Increases, if any, will be effective June 15, 1992. No incumbent's rate shall be reduced as a result of
the implementationof this Agreement.
Section 3:____Application
a)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall be carried out a: the Local Union-Local
Management level in accordance with the provisions cf this Article and the provisions of any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement,
b)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall apply to all hourly paid categories in the sawmill industry except for those categories which have been excluded by mutual agreement between the IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
c)	Sawmill Rate Determinations shall not supersede existing in-plant agreements, signed on <r before November 3, 1976 a: the Local Utuon-Looi Management level.
Section 4:	Development. Uniformity and Co-ordination
In oida to ensure uniform application, the Program shall be developed and co-ordinated by theB. C, Coast SawmillAnalysis Board, consisting of an equal number of representatives from the Urim and The Industry as follows:
46
For the Union:
One (1) Officer representinglWA-CANADA and three (3) Officers representing the Coast
Local Tim m« assisted by one (1) Technical Advisor ii the field of lob Analysis employed by
Regional Council No. 1 of the rWA.
For the industry:
One representative of Forest Industrial Relations Limited and three (3) representatives of the
B. C. Coast Sawmill Industry, assisted by one (1) Technical Advisory in the field of Job
Analysis employed by Forest Industrial Relations T.-imi-hari
Section 5:	Procedures
a)	The Sawmill Rate Determination Program shall be administered jointly on a day-today basis by the respective Technical Advisors, subject to the approval by the B. C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board.
b)	Any agreement reached in this manner regarding the dispositicn of a category rate clearance application received from the local Union-Local Management level, shall be final and binding on the Parties,
c)	If no agreement can be reached in this manner regarding the dispositicn of a category rate clearance application received fisonthe Local Uhion-LocalManagement level, the matter shall be referred to the Board,
d)	If the Board is unable to reach agreement regardingthe dispositicn of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union-LocalManagement level, the matter shall be referred to the TWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Etacest Industrial Relations Limited in accordance with Section I of this Article.
Section 6:	Job Analysis Wane Curve
Group
Level
Effective June 15, 1991 Per Hour
lune 15, 1992 Per Hour
Effective
Ju 
Per Hour
47-
Effective
Group	lune 15, 1991
Level	Per Hour
Effective June 15, 1992 -Esr Hour,
Effective June 15,1993 Per Hour
12
13
14
15
16 17
$19.74
20.08
20.44
20,77
21.11
21,47
18
19
20 21 22 23
21,82
22.14
22.59
23.01
23.44
23.87
$19.74
20.08
20.44 20.77 21,11 21,47 21.82 22.14 22,59 23.01
23.44 23.87
$20.59
20.93
21.29 21.62 21.96 22.32 22.67 22.99 23.44 23.86
24.29 24.72
The general wage increase providedforin Article V, Section 1(a) has been incorporated into these rates
Section 7; Incumbent’s Rate
No incumbent’s rate shall be reduced as a result of the implementation and/or continued application of the Program.
The Patties further agree that details of the Sawmill Rate Determination Program may be subject to amendment ± the written request of either ESrty at the end of each three (3) month period from the date of this Agreement
48
SUPPLEMENT NO. 4
APPRENTICESHIPTRAINING PROGRAM between
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD., 100 MILE HOUSE OPERATIONS
and
IWA CANADA,
Local 1-425, C.L.C. in-co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTIC E SHIP & INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed by the Company as Journeymen, Improvers, or Helpers in respect to the trades named in Article U herein.
ARTICLE n - TRADES
1.	Millwrights
2.	Heavy Duty Mechanic
3.	Steamfitter • Pipefitter
4.	Machinist
5.	Electrician
6.	Welder
I.	Carpenter
8.	Forklift Sc Carrier Mechanic
9,	Filers & Fitters
4 Yeax Program
4	Year Program
5	Year Program 5 Year Program
4 Year Program To be established 4 Year Program 4 Year Program Is established
ARTICLE m - GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Section 1:	Collective Agreement
All provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this Program.
Section2:	Right to Continue
Once started in the Program, subjecthowever to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, provided he/she passes all of the prescribed tests and work is availableto |um/her.
49
Section 3:	Hfccte
l£cn completion of each period of training in the Vxatdaial School, an Apprentice will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure lo pass such a test, the Apprentice will be given a second opportunity, but in the event cf failure to pass sl the occasion of the second such test, he/she shall be required to withdraw franthe Program.
Section <4:	Meaning	of "Year"
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Improver, it shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days; the sad period to include time spent at the Tfecatiaial School.
Sections:	Training T ± Entitlement
Subject to ths provisions herein, an Apprentice who is hired by the Company aid who has had training in another apprenticeshipplan will be given recognition of such training time.
Section 6:	Q n-t h e-.T ob-Train i n g
The Company will ensure that the Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training.
ARTTrr v TV - SEI.ECTTON OF APPRENTICES
When the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants aakrirad jn accordance with the provisions of Article LX of the Collective Agreement,
Section 2:___Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned as Helpers for a three (3) month probationary period, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
Section 3:	Selection of Apprentice Procedures
1.	Purpose
The purpose cf this agreement is Id establish an equitable criteria which will give management reasonable assurance that the apprentice, ifDon completion cf his indentureship, will become a proficient tradesman and to assure the Lhim and its members that the senior applicant who mets the criteria will be come an apprentice.
2. Educational Prerequisites
The educational requirement for general trades is Grade 10 or equivalent and Grade 12 or equivalent for the electrical trades.
50
3. Aelifude Testing
Applicants will be tested in accordance with the bank of tests as t nent by the Apprentic; hip Branch o ' the Ministry of Labour. Testing procedure will t as follows:
4.
a)	A standard set of testing instructions and procedures will be developed and authorized by the parties to this agreement and communicated to appropriate management and union personnel.
b)	The passing grade for the tests will be established by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour.
c)	The passing marks for the mechanical Trades and Electrical tests are established as being a combined requirement of, firstly, seventy percent (70%) in the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations segments of the tests, and secondly, seventy percent (70%)m the overall final scoring of the tests.
d)	All scoring computations of percentages in each section and overall scores of the tests are recorded as being rounded off to the next highest percentage p i n t where any fraction of percentage point exists.
e)	Tests will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by Management; a Union representative will be present when the tests are given and marked.
f)	Tests recommended for the self-evaluation will be made available and may be taken by an interested employee. Failure to take such test shall notjeopardize an employee's application for any apprenticeship.
Re-testing
a) It is agreed that where an applicanthas failed to pass the mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of either the Mechanical or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-tested one (1) additional time for each test.
b)
c)
d)
Results of all tests will be retained on file in the company's office. An applicant who has met the criteria and successfully passed the requisite test and is the senior for any future apprenticeship posting within a three (3) year period will be considered the successfulapplicant.
An applicant who qualifies and has passed the Mechanical Aptitude and Spaa Relations section of any of the available te >ts but failed the overall test, will be eligible to bid and be re-tested for any uti	jnticeship posting
A master copy of the tests will be made available to IWA-C ANADA on request.
51
5.	Maintenance. Monitoring and Distributionof Tests
a)	Sufficient copies of the tests, answer sheets and marking overlays will be maintained by Weldwood cf Canada limited. Vancouver Office and/or the ApprenticesliipBranch of the Ministry c£ Labour of the Province of British Cblmfcaa.
b)	Test materials will be supplied on request to those operations requiring same and will be returned immediately after use.
c)	U=e of the tests will be monitored by Weldwood cf Canada Limited,
Vancouver Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of labour of the Province (f » Columbia. Such naiLbaaig will maintain a record of applicant’s tests, successfulapplicant’s scores recorded, seniority applied and provide a follow-up cf the successful applicant’s progress throughout training and an appropriate post training period. Other information as deemed necessary by the parties to this agreement will be made availableas agreed.
6.	Probationary Period
The successful applicant will be given a probationary period up to ninety (90)
calendar days.
7.	Selection Rev-ia*
Where a dispute arises out ofthe seiection of an apprentice, that cannot be resolved at
the plant level, the matter will be discussed by Management and the Local Uiicn.
8.	Trial Period
This agreement io for a twelve (12) month trial period, from the date of this
agreement, Either party may terminate this agreement upon one (1) month's written
notice after the completion of the eleventh (11th) month
All present Helpers and Improvers employed by the Company must enter the Program. Helpers and Improvers who cannot qualify in the Program will be reclassified as Labourers with no reduction in rate of pay, util such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain a job with equal or a higher rate cf pay.
Labourers will not be employed in a warmly that will interfere with the application of the Program.
Ssslten Si______As* Limb
There will be no age limit for applicants,.
52
ARTICLE V - TRAINING SCHEDULES sertHnn 1; Assignment as Helper
All successM applicants, except Welder Apprentices (seeappropnate appendix), will be registered as Apprentices and be assigned as Helpers for an eleven (11) month period, prior to attending Vxatiaial School, unless the applicants previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
A program for the aforementioned Welder Apprentices will be established by June 1st, 1968.
Section 2:	5 Year Schedule
Rating
First Year	Helper
Second Year	Helper
Third Year	Improver
Fourth Year	Improver
Fifth Year	Improver
Section 3:	4 Year Schedule
Rating
First Year	Helper
Second Year	Helper
Third Year	Improver
Fourth Year	Improver
Section 4:	3 Year Schedule
Rating
At Operation
fust 11 months first 11 months first 11 months f i t 11 months first 11 months
At Operation
first 11 months f i t 11 months first 11 months first 11 months
At Operation
At School
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
At School
First Year Second Year Third Year
Helper	f i t	11	months	last 4	weeks
Improver	first	11	months	last 4	weeks
Improver	first	11	months	last 4	weeks
Section 5:----Etetriciims
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2, 3 and 4 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shall be required to take eight (8) weeks at school during each year of the Program instead of four
(4), with the period in the operation reduced accordingly.
Section 6:____Passing Test
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribed test before promotion for Helper to Improver.
53
Section 7; Journeyman Qualifications
Following completion of the period of training as required herein, and upon becoming certified, he/she shall receive certified Journeyman’s rate cf pay if a Journeyman’s job is available. If. however, a Journeyman's job is not available ne/she shall be entitled to exercise his/her plant seniority for job entitlement. If in the exercise of his/her seniority be/she is retained as an Improver, be/she shall not be required to pafcam a Journeyman’s work or take the place of a Journeyman,
Section 8:___Vocational School Delay
If any of the periods provided for in Sections 2, 3, 4 or 5 herein are exceeded by reason of Vocational School facilities being unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements.
ARTICLE VI - WAGE RATES
Section 1:	Rates and Increments
a) Wage Kates for iSpas in the first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement.
5) An Apprentice who passes his/her test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his/her second term year as a Helper,
c)	The Wage Rate for an Improver shall be that as specified in the Wage Supplement.
d)	An Apprentice who passes a test in the fourth period ofvocational training shall receive an increment agreed to between the company and the Union during his/her
second term as an Improver.
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen, and who are certified as such, shall receive the certified rate for the wade, as agreed to between the Company and the Union.
Section 2:___Expenses
Fares, Lost Time Pot, and School Expenses are to be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as pan of the cost of the Apprenticeship Elan, with the exception that the employer shall pay the Apprentice while attending Wcatknal School the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular wages c£ the employee concerned.
Single persons shall receive their wages, less the sum paid to them by the appropriate Govemmentauthorities. Married persons shall receive their wages, less the sum paid to single persons by the appropriate Government authorities.
54
Section 3:	Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one ofthe tests under this Program, through no fault of his/her own, the delay shall not prejudice his/her right to wage increments provided for in Section 1 herein.
ARTICLE VH - ADVISORY BOARD
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two representatives of the Industry, two from the Uhicn,one representing the Vocational School, and one from the Apprenticeship and Industrial ’whirring Branch.
Section 2:	Responsibility
The Board shall be responsible for advising t *ep< of Labour, Apprem Industrial Training Branch, regarding the content of tests, standards of marking school cu ric 1 im with resj e :t to egistei sd Appren ices
and
The Board shall it b responsible for the actual ttii or i of t
ARTICLE VHI - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
k sently employed a	ym who do not wish to become certified, shall
i u to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 2:
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, whe tak; the	i	iti< exam and
fail, shall tinue to be em as Journeymen
Section 3:
If a present Journeyman fads to pass the test for a vc Certificate, he/she can t	ime indentured as an
pay.
Tradesmen’s Qualification tice at no reduction in rate of
Section 4:
There will be a three-person committee established to process applicants who a application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen’s Qualificati s, or who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen’s Qualification Act. he Con it ill also determine what vocational training is necessary for persons ind ured as iti R< tali on tl	ittee shall consist of the foil
55
a) One Representative from the Unicai £A One Representative from the Industry.
One Representative from the Apprenticeship Brandi.
Vocational trainingwill be conducted during day courses. Textbooks and study material will be trade available when required.
Section 5:
The Company is prepared to pay training costs, as described below, for an employee who is required to reoew his/her D.P.W. MX or #2 Welding Ticket, or equivalent; and who is required to weld as a part of his/her employment. The Company will also pay training costs, as described below, incurred for any employee who upgrades his/her Welding Ticket at the request of the Company.
Training Costs shall be limited to:
1.	Lost wage, less	any Government Assistance Programs.
2.	School Expenses.
3.	ISttES.
4.	Cost of test.
ARTICLE IX-TOOLS
Section Is
All Journeyman Tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for the Journeyman rate unless they have, a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hind, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the Journeyman.
Section 2t
The Improver shall be required m have and maintain a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of building up the necessary tools to quiphim/herself for the job.
Section 3t
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools and shall use those designated to him/her. However, in his/her own interest, he/she should commence the process of building up a toolkit.
36
SUPPLEMENT NO. 5 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDNG
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED, 100 MILE HOUSE OPERATIONS,
AND:
IWA CANADA, Local 1-425, C.L.C.
RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF FORCES
The Parties mutually agree that when the forces are re-established after a shutdown or layoff, employees shall return to their previously held jobs as soon as possible, but not later than the first shift following the first weekend.
INTERPRETATION ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Further to our discussion during negotiations in regard to Article IX - Leave of Absence - in the new Agreement, the Local Union agrees that Article IX, Section 5 as it applies to leaves of absence for educational and training purposes, should be clarified as to intent, and propose the following interpretation:
The Company will only be obliged to grant leaves of absence for educational and training purposes to employees who intend to take training that will assist the individual in obtaining skilfs related to the Industry.
The Parties agree that in the application of Article IX - Leave of Absence, Section 5, Compassionate Leave, the following criteria shall be used in determining the employee's eligibility.
1.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to those employees with more than two (2) years continuous service.
2.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be granted based on one (1) month Leave of Absence for each year of continuous service to a maximum <£ six (6) months.
3.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to a maximum cf one (1) leave in a three (3) calendar year period.
57
4.	Leave of Absence for extended vacationpurposes will be limited to three (3) employees off on leave at any one time.
5.	Leave of Absence for extended vacationpurposes will be granted on a first come/first served basis.
Request for Leaves of Absence for personal reasons other than compassionate or educational training will be subject to the provisions of Sections 2 aid 3, Article IX of the Collective Agreement.
SELECTIVE EMPLOYMENT
The Company agrees that when an employee who requires selective employment because of accident or extended illness returns to work, the Company will, within twenty-four (24) hours after the employee has returned to work, inform the Plant Committee of the employee’s name and to what work he/she has been assigned
Where a dispute arises about the suitability cf work which the employee has been assigned, the Committee and the Company shall meet and attempt to resolve the matter.
CHARGE HAND
The normal duties of a charge hand are to transmit work orders to direct the activities of the group o fworkers in his/her charge. He/Sbe may from time to time supervise a shift on a temporary basis, but will not assume the responsibilitiesof a foreman for an extended period of time.
He/She may or may not perform work within h-iHhpr area of supervision.
He/She, as a Union member, is not granted the right to hire or discharge.
None of the foregoing is intended to restrict any ofthe usual activities cf a charge hand in this operation, but merely to clarify the fact that the Company does not give charge hands the right to hire or discharge employees.
WAGE REVISIONS
; is to confirm our Agreement that wage i evisions neg at d on the < the Weldwood operations at Quesnel and iOO Mile House, [n applying s be lone on the basis of job comparison rather than simply job title.
t will apply to revisions it will
58
SIIPPEEMENTNO. 6 FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
The following terms and conditions shall be applicable for the duration of the current Collective Agreement during "Company Responsibility Fires".
It is understood that the terms of this Agreement only apply to the employees in the employ of the Company at the time the fire started. Any person hired for firefighting after the start of the fin will work under the rate and conditions as required by the B, C. Forest Service
1. DEFINITIONS
1a)	Accidental Fire
Any fire not deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, ancf which requires active measures to extinguish.
b)	Slash Escape Fire
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which has escaped the predetermined boundaries and requires active measures to extinguish.
c)	Slash Control Fire
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which is contained within the predetermined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fin which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control and does not require active measures as contemplated in a) and b) above.
d)	Comnanv Responsibility	Fire
Any fire which the Company is responsible for taking measures to extinguish pursuant to the provisions	c£ the Forest Act.
e)	Forest Service Fire
Any fire in respect of which the B. C. Forest Service accepts responsibility for direction of measures to extinguish.
D	Fire Fighting Rates
The rate of pay for fighting Company Responsibility Fires hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
g)	Regular Job Rates
Rates of pay to employees for the performance of their regular jobs, as set out in the Wage Supplement of this Collective Agreement.
-59
h) Statutory Eats
Rates cf pay established by B C Forest Service for fire fighting
COMPANY CONTROLLED TIMBER
a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Company employees to fight fires an Company controlled umber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled umber which is threatening Company controlled timber, the Company will pay those employees at the fire fighung rates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement
b)	Where the B C Forest Service directs the Company to provide its employees for fighting fires m circumstances other than those set out in (a) above, those employees will be paid st the statutory rate
FIRE FIGHTING RATES
a) The basic rate shall be the base rate shown in the Collective Agreement and shall apply to all employees engaged in fighung Company Responsibility Fires except those performing one of the following fire fighting jobs
Category	June.is/91
Juno l5(92	June 15/93
Crew Boss cat operators Skidder Operators Power Saw Operators (Own Saw)
Mechanics/Heavy Duty Slip-on Tank and or Tailor Tanks with Pump Driver/Operator
Water TankTruck with Pump Driver/ Operator
Service Truck/Bus Driver Pumpman
$19 93	$19	93
19	38	19	38
20	81	20 81
21 13	21	13
Mechanic’s regular job rate 19 38	19	38
18 62
18 62
17.76	17.76
18,09	18,09
$20.78
20.23
21.66
21.98
20,23
19.47
18.61
18.94
The general wage increases provided for all employees effective June 15/88 (Article V, Section 1) have been incorporated iito these rates.
Straight time rates will apply to all employees throughout the period during which the said employees are engaged in fire fighting. This shall not include cook and buokhouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanics or other categories servicing, feeding or supplying firefighters from areas moved from the area cf the fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day in question are exclusively related to fire fighting operations.
60
C)
d)
4.
a)
b)
c)
5.
6.
7.
Regular job rates will apply only for the duration of the regular production shift in which the fire started.
Where employees are working injob classifications during fire fighting, other than those set out herein, job rates will apply.
BOARD AND LODGING (While Fighting Company tegxnsdhdl±ty Fires)
Employees who commute from home or camp are expected to 'carry a lunch' Additional meals when required will be at Company expense.
Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
Employees living in fly camps will receive board aid lodging a Company expense. TRAVEL TIME
Travel time for employees engaged in fire fighting will be pad in accordaice with the Collective Agreement.
SLASH BURNING
Ali employees engaged in patrolling or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be pad their regularjob rate aid overtime conditions will apply.
INTERPRETATIVE NOTES
a)	When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates aid overtime conditions for fire patrol will revert to normal conditions provided for in the Collective Agreement.
b)	The meaning of the word "extinguish" as used in this Agreement shall include the act orprocess of suppression to the point when the fire requires fire patrolman only.
8.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement except as anended or modified herein shall continue lo apply.
9.	The Company and the Union are prepared to participate injoint submissions to the Provincial Government on statutory tire fighting rates.
61
SUPPLEMENT NO. 7
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING
Section 1:
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related to 'New' constmction with tradesmen employed by an outside contractor, plant tradesmen will be paid the 'outside" contractors) rate(s).
Section 2:
For the purpose cf this Agreement New censtncticn' shall be defined as meaning'
a)	The construction of majornewbuildingsandmajoradditionstoexisting buildings.
b)	The addition of new or used major production machinery aid related equipment not previously in existence.
Section 3:
a)	"Tradesmen" shall mean journeymen aid apprentices in the following trade-s:
Machinist	Millwright
Steamfitter/Pipefitter	Welder
Electrician	Carpenter
b)	'Contractor's Rate' shall only mean the hourly wage paid by that contractor and not any other payment or working conditions.
C) 'Contractor’s Rate' will not exceed the rates for similar trades paid by TWA construction companies.
62
SUPPLEMENT NO. 8
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A.	FLEXIBILITY OF HOURS OF WORK
The Parties recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in the Hours of Work Xrticle, for the express purpose of tetter utilization of manpower and capital such as:
Balancing of production Maintenance Market requirements Even flow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuous scheduling (eg. Logging, Engineers.
Firemen, Maintenance, Watchmen)
B.	SHIFT SCHEDULING
The Parties agree that the following shift schedules will provide the flexibility required to meet the needs expressed above.
1.	Logging
i)	compressed schedules consisting of 10 hours per day, 4 days
per week;
u)	non-continuous schedules such as 10 days on, 4 days off.
2.	Manufacturing
i)	2 crews working 4 days, 10 hours per shift;
ii)	up to 3 crews working Monday to Saturday, 10 hours a shift not exceeding 40 hours per week;
iii)	employees working in continuous operations may be scheduled to work shifts other than (i) or (ii) above.
3.	Maintenance
i) shifts of up to 10 hours per day, 40 hoursper week. Monday tc Sunday inclusive;
uj	three shifts per week, not exceeding 12 hours per day
63
4. Qftsr Shifts
It is understood the parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions,
C.	IMPLEMENTATION
Any variations(s) to the Hours of Work Article shah be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
1.	The Company and the Local Union will meet to discuss proposed shift schedules within the terms of the Hours of Work Article. It is anticipated that the Local Union vaU make sincere attempts to assist the Company wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The parties must mutually agree an resolution of issues such as:
a) Details of shift
t>) Details of Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave, and Jury Duty.
c)	Maximum length of shifts for physically demanding work. Accident prevention is a factor to be taken into account in determining drift lengths.
d)	The loss of hours/emploYraent as a direct result of the implementation of alternate shift schedules.
e)	The use of employees for supplementary production work.
2.	The Camp or Plait Committee aid the crew will be actively consulted by the Parties during the process.
D.	GENERAL PRINCIPLES
When an alternate shift schedule is u~effecf other provisions of the Collective Agreement will be administered an the principle that an employee will not lose or gain any benefits over his normal five-day schedule
1	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will be not introduced where the imenuon is to increase the use cf casual employees m place of regular employees
2	Different parts of an operation may be scheduled on different stuns
3.	The principle of the forty (40) hour week is to be maintained over an avenging period.
64
4.	This Article shall not change existing alternate shift agreements, unless agreed to by both parties.
5.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the Same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other Articles of the Collective agreement which provide benefits after eight (8) hours are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
7.	An employee’s rest days may vary from week to week under an alternate shift schedule. Employees shall not be paid premium pay for changes in their rest days in these circumstances.
8.	An employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shalT receive rate and one-half for work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest day results from the application of seniority or has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
9.	There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are changed because of the implementation of an alternate shift schedule.
65
SAFETY
Comes from man's mastery of has Environment.and of himself, ft is won by individual effort and group co-operation.
it can be achieved only by informed, alert, skillful people who respect themselves and have a regard for the wetfare of others.
8PEE«tfEEFRMTERSUa, PRINCE QBOROe, Bid;