LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED
INDEX
BEREAVEMENT PAY...................................................  23
CALL OUT PAY.....................................................15
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.............................................8,9.10
HOLIDAYS WITH PAY................................................6.7,8
HOURS OF WORK.................................................13 . 14 . 15
INSURANCE COVERAGE:
MEDICAL..............................................21,22
DRUG....................................................21
HOSPITAL................................................22
LONG TERM	DISABILITY........................ 26,27.28.29	30
DENTAL............................................24.25.26
LIFE....................................................22
VISION..................................................23
PENSION PLAN.........................................30,31
JOE DESCRIPTION.........................................35,36,37,38	39
JOE POSTING......................................................16,19
JURY DUTY...........................................................24
LAY-OFF PROCEDURE................................................17.18
LUNCH TIME..........................................................14
OVERTIME.....................................................14 ,15
PAID EDUCATIONAL LEAVE..............................................31
PROBATION	PERIOD...............................................17
RECALLS.............................................................18
REPORTING	PAY.............................................14
SENIORITY...........................................................21
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL..................................................15
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAM.........................................12.33
TRANSFER TO OTHER JOB.....................................16,	18,20
VACATIONS WITH PAY.................................................5 6
'WAGE SCHEDULE.......................................2.3.38 39 40 41.42
WORKING CONDITIONS...............................................11.12
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
and
IWA CANADA LOCAL 1-2995
(hereinafter referred to as the "Onion")
ARTICLE I - Purpose
L.01	The purpose of this Agreement is
to secure for the Company and the Onion, the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions and to ensure 10 til© utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and the protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for advancement of the conditions sot forth herein.
ARTICLE II - Recognition
2.0L (a)	The Company recognizes the Union
as the sole collective bargaining agent of all employees of Levesque Plywood Limited at Hearst save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office and sales staff and scalers.
ARTICLE II - Recognition ( conC ' cl)
2.01	(b) The employees of contractors engaged by the Company in the plants and yard of the Company shall be considered employees within the terms of this, Agreement; save and except the employees ol: contractors and/or the contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special set-ices not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement employees of contractor!; where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work.
2.02	Supervisory personnel, which include contractors whose employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except where instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involve physical danger to employees or danger to property.
ARTICLE III - Period
3.01	The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Articles of this Agreement frorry June_ l, _I9_90__to May
31} 1993 inclusive, and from year to year thereafter, unless either party desires to change or terminate this Agreement, in which case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to May 31st of that particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing, as Lo the changes desired.
ARTICLE TV - Wage Schedule
4.01	The Wage Schedule is attached hereto
and forms a part of this Agreement.
- 3 -
ARTICLE IV - Wage Schedule (conti'd)
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement:, a
significant change in job content in physical or mental requirements occurs in any job classification listed in the attached wage schedule the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement the matter may be referred to Section 8.05 of the grievance procedure.
4.03	For classified jobs not Listed in this wage schedule, the Company may set estimated or temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for a similar and/or related occupation in the attached wage schedule.
Whenever possible the Company must give at least thirty (30) days advance notice to the Union of any proposed change in job content to any job classification.
After a trial period of thirty (30) days any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Local Union and upon agreement shall become part of the wage schedule. and payment made retroactive, and after the thirty (30) day trial and following negotiation for such rates with the Local Union, if no agreement is reached on the rate, the matter shall become subject to the grievance procedure beginning at Section 8.05.
ARTICLE V - Union Membership
5.01	All present employees who are members of the Union and chose who may become members of the Union shall maintain such membership in good standing as a condition of continued employment.
5.02	Employees shall make application to
join the Union when first approached to do so by a dulv authorized Union Steward., Official or
Representative. The Company shall upon hiring remit to said employee a letter supplied by the Union with a copy to the Steward, advising employee that it is a condition of employment for him to report to the Union Steward within 10 days.
5.03	For each individual employee, who is a member of the Union or applies to become a member the Company agrees that it will, on his behalf and upon his written request or upon written notice by thB Union, pay Union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues from monies due him.
4
ARTICLE v - Union Membership (cont'd)
The Company shal I put employees on checkoff at the time of hire or return to work and deduct the Union's monthly membership dues from monies due them and the Union will inform the Company accordingly.
The Company shall include on each employee's Income Tax (T4) slip, the amount of Union dues deducted in the calendar year.
5.04	Remittances of all deductions shall be sent to the Local Union; said remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, showing payroll numbers, full names and amounts. The Company shall deliver the above not later than the end of the following month. A copy of the list will be given by the Company to the Union Steward.
5.013 The Local Union shall furnish the Company with a list of Local Officers and Representatives, and shall amend these lists as changes o:cur.
5.06 The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union Office at the start of the contract year and amend it as required. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes.
5.07 The Company agrees that 'while hiring additional employees it will give preference to Union members providing they apply for work or that the Union applies on their behalf.
5.OB Representatives of the Union carry--ing a certificate of authority signed by tile President and Secretary of the Union shall have the right to visit the plants for the purpose of investigating any alleged violation of this agreement .
Prior to his visit the Union Representative shall obtain permission from an authorized officer of the Company for his visit and to
allow the Company to appoint a representative to accompany him during his visit. The Union Representative shal 1 conduct himself in a manner which will not interfere wiLh the normal operation of the plant!; during his visits.
ARTICLE ?I - Vacations with Pay
6.01 Vacation with pay paid on Che following basis and Cion pay ent iLles an employee to off:
credits shall be each 27 of vaca-
one week of Lime
a )
b I
c)
d )
e >
f i
47- of gross earnings for employees who have less than four (4) years service time with the Company.
6% of gross earnings for employees who have four (4) years or more but Less than eLeven (LI) yen r s set-vice time with the Company.
8% of gross earnings for employees who have eleven (LLI years or more but less than eighteen (L8) years service 'with the Company.
107. of gross earnings for ern-oLovees who have eighteen ‘18) years or more service with the Company.
L27 of gross earnings for employees who have 30 years or more service with the Company.
SUPPLEMENTARY VACATION WITH PAY
Employees who have worked more than twenty (20) years for the Company s shell receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
- Above benefits terminate 'when employee attains his 65th birthday.
Age 60-1 week (27c of gross earnings)
Age 61 2 weeks (47- of gross earnings)
Age 62 3 weeks (67: of gross earnings)
Age 63-4 weeks (87: of gross earnings!
Age 64 5 weeks (107: of gross earnings)
6.02	An employee who has been conti-
nuously employed for one (1) year, shaLl Lake vacation time off in accordance' with the provisions of Section 6.04 herein.
- 6 -
ARTICLE VI - Vacation with Pay (cont'd)
6.03	Accrued vacation with pay shall be paid to each employee by cheque to be issued at the time of lay off or at the time vacation is taken. Where the employee is discharged for- cause or quits he shall be paid his accrued vacation with pay at the next regular pay day.
6.04	a plant vacation shutdown of two (2) weeks duration, or any further period as may be mutually agreed to between the Company and the Union., will be scheduled each year during July and/or August. The Company will notify the Union as co duration and timing of such said shutdown. An employee who works during the vacation shutdown and/or who is entitled to vacation time off in excess to the duration of the vacation shutdown will be allowed to take such time off upon notice in writing to his supervisor. In case too many employees should seek additional time off, thereby jeopardizing efficiency of operations, time off will be scheduled in accordance with seniority.
ARTICLE VII - Holidays with Pay
7.01	Employees shall be paid without
the performance of work for the following Holidays at their regular rate of pay:
New Years’ Day
Good Fridav Canada Day’ Victoria Day Boxing Day
Civic Holiday (1st Monday in August)
Day
Christmas Day January 2nd
Labour Day Thanksgiving
Two (2) floating holidays per year for each employee who has accumulated a minimum of one hundred and twenty days (120) seniority, will be granted in addition to the above holidays. Request for floaters are to be submitted in writing at least three (3) working days in advance of the floater with the exception of emergency situations. Management will confirm within twenty-four (24) hours of receiving the request.
- 7 -
ARTICLE VII - Holidays with Pay (cont'd)
All floaters not taken prior to November 1st in each year will be scheduled. An employee who by reason of Lay-off not exceeding twenty-one (21) working days is prevented from taking an earned floating holiday, shall be paid for the holiday if it cannot be otherwise scheduled during the calendar year.
Seniority shall apply in the event floaters are taken in excessive numbers.
7.02	When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, it shall be observed on t:he preceding Friday and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday or as otherwise mutually agreed.
For purposes of the Agreement, a Saturday or a Sunday or a Holiday shall begin at 8:00 a.m. of that day and end at 8:00 a.m. the day following.
7.03	An employee who has established se-
niority in accordance with Article XII, .snd who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) day period prior to the Holiday, and who works the last scheduled shift prior to the holiday and the first scheduled shift following the holiday,	unless his	return to work is
prevented by circumstances	beyond his control,
shall receive pay for the holidays.
7.04	Holidays occurring during the course of an allowed vacation period shall not be included as part of that allowance.
7.05	An employee who qualifies under Section 12.02 (a) and 7.03, who is obliged to cease work due to a Lay-off during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period.
8
ARTICLE VII - Holidays with Pay (cont'd)
7.06	An employee, who qualifies under Section L2.02 (a) and 7.03, who is obliged to cease work due to sickness, pregnancy or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the Holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday^) within such thirty (30) day period.
7.07	If an employee who qualifies under section 12.02 (a) and is recalled and works his first scheduled shift during his twenty-one (21) calendar day period, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday(s).
ARTICLE VIII - Adjustment of Grievances
8.01	All disputes between employees and the Company shall be settled by the following procedure.
8.02	The Union shall arrange for the election from its working membership, of two Union Committees of three (3) headed by a Union Steward. One (1) Plywood and one (1) Particleboard Plant. The Company shall be notified in writing as to the names of the Union Committee. Union Steward and/or Grievance Committee man, may be allowed time off during his working hours at a time acceptable to the Company in connection with Union/Company business, provided that it does not interfere with the efficient operation of the Plant. (excluding negotiations of Collective Agreement) . The Company shall pay the Union Steward and/or Grievance Committee man, at his regular or premium rate, which may be proper for any time spent in connection with this Article (8.02).
8.03	stage 1
Any grievance arising during the term of this Agreement must be presented for adjustment without undue delay. A grievance of an employee shall be taken by the employee singly or together with the Steward and/or Union Representative directly to the employee's immediate supervisor and a decision thereon shall be rendered within two (2) days from the presentation of the Grievance.
9
ARTICLE VIII - Adjustment: of Grievances (cont'd) 8.04 (a)	stage 2
If this decision is not satisfactory Co the aggrieved employee, the grievance shall. be made in writing , and signed by the aggrieved employee and/or a Steward, and shall be presented to the Company by himself, or together with the Union Steward and/or Union Representative, within seven (7) days from the date of the decision under paragraph 8.03 above, and shall be dealt with ac a meeting of the Steward's committee and management and such decision shall be rendered within seven (7) days or within such further time as may be mutually agreed.
8.04	(b) I" case of discharge or suspension by the Company, the Company wiLl, within two (2) days notify the employees in writing of the rea-so" for the discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within two (2) days. A grievance arising from a claim by a" employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was un just or contrary to the terms of this agreement must be deaLt with in writing by both parties and must be presented to the Company no later than ten (10) days after the written notice of the discharge or suspension. The grievance shall be introduced at this stage.
8.04	(c) Grievances which involve Company wide interpretation, admini stration or alleged violation of the Agreement, shall be made in writing, and delivered to the opposite party within ten (10) days of the occurrence on which the grievance is based, and shall be dealt with by Representatives of the Company and Representatives of the Union. If the matter is not settled within thirty (30) days of notice being received b> the opposite party, it may be referred to arbitration.
8.05	stage 3
In the event that the grievance is not settled in the above matter, it may be referred to arbitration in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, and Notice of Processing to Arbitration shall be made on the opposite party within thirty (30) days of the decision rendered under Section 8.04 above.
ARTICLE VIII
- 10 -
Adjustment: of Grievances (cont'd)
8.06	Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of Agreement. The time limits mentioned in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement but otherwise shall be oE essence. Failure on the part of the grievor to comply with time limits shall he deemed to be an abandonment of the grievance.
8.07	In arbitration, the Company and the Union shall each select one person; these two shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after written notice of the other party':; nomination. The arbitration board's decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this agreement. In the event of the failure of the two persons selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third party.
Nothing contained in this Article shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to a single arbitrator.
8.08	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, nor amend this agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Hoard shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classification rates under Article 4.02j 4.03. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.09	Each party to this agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board.
- LI -
ARTICLE IX - so Strike - No Lockout
9.01	There shall be no strike, stoppage of work or slowdown, as defined by the Ontario Labour Relations Act, caled or supported by the Union or its members, and no lockout caused by the Company during the life of this agreement or any renewal thereof
ARTICLE X - Working Condi tions
10.01	(a) It is agreed that the Company and the Union wil 1 co-operate collectively in improving safeLy and first aid practices. Tie Company and the Union further agree to set up and maintain a ioint safety committee to promote safe working conditions and practices. The Company will endeavour to have a qualified first aid ma" on each shift.
It is the intention of the Company to carry out on a monthly basis, a safety inspection Of its plant with (2) two members of the employee's safety committee.
Times spent by employees on such safety activities shall be considered as time worked.
10.01	(b) The Company wlLl provide free of charge
the fol lowing safety apparel and eguipment ; gloves to be supplied in different sizes as required, rain suits, coveralls for al 1 maintenance werk , welding shields, aprons and safety glasses where requi red The Company wi 1 I ensure that adequate safety	switches are	installed as
required on machinery throughout the plant. Worn out gloves, hearing protector eguipment end aprons must be returned before a new pair of gloves, new apron or a new hearing protector is issued otherwise the employee will be charged l:oi the new gloves, apron or hearing protection equipment
10.01	(c) The Company agrees to pay a flat allowance of sixteen dollars (S16.00) to each employee, each year, as a compensation for safety hoots. Said amount to be paid upon presentation by the employee of proof of purchase.
10.02	IL is agreed that during the life of
this Agreement, there shall be no reduction in existing privileges.
- 12 -
ARTICLE X - Working Conditions (cont'd)
10.03	(a)	The Company will provide adequate
cafeteria space and ventilation and will provide
low heat oven facilities.
10.03	(b)	Car plug-ins shall be provided for
employees' cars at the Company's plant parking lot.
10.04	The Company will in consultation with the Onion endeavour to take such measures as required to improve ventilation, heating and dust control in both plants.
10.05 (a)	Adequate vacuum cleaners will be provided by the Company for the employees 1 clothing .
10.05 (b)	The Company agrees that it wilL provide free insurance coverage against loss by tire of tradesmen's tools normally required by tradesmen to the full value of such tools, while on authorized Company property or work sites. In order to receive this coverage, tradesmen shall be required to supply to the Company, a list of such tools with their invoices, so that proper coverage can be provided.
The Company agrees that it will provide coverage for theft or damage of tradesmen's tool chests and its contents while on Company's property providing tradesmen supply list of tools to the Company. This is to apply only in cases where tradesmen's tool chest:; have been broken into and contents stolen therefrom. In such cases, the employee will bo required to give immediate notice to his supervisor.
10.06	Employees will be paid every second Thursday and pay computed to 8:00 a.m., Wednesday of the preceding week.
The existing practice of paying employees through the Rank will be maintain and the Company will make arrangements whereby employees may receive their pay as of Len (10:00) o'clock a.m. on payday.
- L 3
ARTICLE XI - Hours of Work
11.01 (a)	The	work	week shall consist	of
	fori	i:y (40)	hours.	
11.01 (b)	On	three	(3) shift production	the
work week	shall	consist	of fort) (40) hours ,
eight (8) hours per day, beginning at 8:00 a.m. Monday to 8:00 a.m. Saturday, in accordance with the following schedule:
No.	L	shift	-	8:00 a.m. to 4:00	p.m.
No.	2	shift	-	4:00 p.m. to L2:00	midnight
No.	3	shift	-	12:00 a.m. to 8:00	a.m.
11.01	(c)	On	two (2)	shift production the
work week	shall	consist	of forty (40) hours,
eight (8) hours per day beginning at 8:00 a.m. Monday to 12:00 midnight Friday, in accordance with the following schedule:
No. 1 shift - 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
No. 2	shift	- 4:00	p.m. to 12:00 midnight
11.01	(cl)	The work day for employees not on
shift crews (day	shift)	shall consist of eight
(8) consecutive	hours between	the	hours of 8:00
a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Continuous operations, limited to Particleboard Plant only.
Such	employees	will	be	excluded from
the	provisions	of time	and one half
for	Saturday	work	or	double time for
Sunday work in 11.04 (a) and 11.04 (b) if such work is part of their regular scheduled hours of work.
Regular scheduled hours of work on Sunday will be paid time and one half.
The shift schedule on said operations will remain a negotiable item.
The day shift shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00	p.m., the afternoon shift
shall be from 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight and the night shift from 12:00 midnight to 8:00 a.m.
11.01 (e)
1)
2)
3)
4)
- 14 -
ARTICLE XI - Hours of Work (cont'd)
5)	On continuous oneration., the work week
shall start at' 12:00 a.m. Sunday to 12:00 a.m. the following Sunday for the four shift operation.
6)	All other provisions of Article XI will apply.
11.02 (a)	All employees will be allowed a ten (10) minute coffee break at the mid-point of each half shift, and one half (1/2) hour off for lunch at the mid-point of each shift. Lunch and coffee breaks are on Company time. Coffee breaks may be advanced or delayed by fifteen (15) minutes and lunch break advanced or delayed by 1/2 an hour to suit the production requirements.
11.02	(b)	Individual employees can elect to
spend their lunch breaks either in the cafeteria or outside of the Company's premises but if they elect to go out they will, be required to punch their cards when going and when returning to work.
11.03 (a)	If an employee reports for work and no work is available he will receive four (4) hours pay for reporting to work. If he commences work and no work is available for him to complete his shift, he shall be paid for eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate.
To qualify for the above, the employee must remain on the job until told by the
foreman that he may Leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered. unless the employee is prevented from performing such work due to reasons beyond his control.
11.03	(b)	The starting and stopping times
will remain constant and fixed during the weekly period, subject to the following:
An employee's scheduled shift may be changed at the Company’s request provided he is paid one and one-half his regular rate For the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate, provided there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between the shifts worked.
- L5 -
ARTICLE XI - Hours of Work (cont'd)
LI.04 (a)	Time worked in excess of eight (8)
hours per day or shift or over forty (40) hours per week and all hours worked by an employee outside his scheduled shift or on Saturday, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
Where an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company, the affected employee will be paid at the rate of time and one half for the first shift.
11 .04 (b) Time worked on Sunday or any of the Holidays specified in this Agreement shall be paid for at the rate of double time.
11.04	(c) Employees who are willing to work overtime will be required to signify by giving their names to their supervisor each week on forms to be supplied by the Company.
Overtime requirements during the week and on week-ends will be distributed as equally as possible among employees who are capable of performing the work.
11.04	(d) An employee who is called back for work after completing his day or shift shall be paid time and one half for the hours (worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at straight time rate.
11.05 (a )
three (3) every week rotation.
Employees working, on two shifts operation, will change and such change of shift will
(2) or shift
be on
11.05 (b) All employees scheduled to rotate on tv:o (2) and three (3) shift operations shall receive $0.22 cents per hour in addition to their regular rate.
16
ARTICLE XII - Seniority
12.01 (a) The Company recognizes the principle of Seniority. Seniority shall govern in promotion, transfers, lay-offs and recalls after lay—offs, provided the employee has the necessary qualifications, skill and ability to perform the work required.
An employee's seniority shall be his length of service with the Company dating back to his original hiring date or in case his service was broken as defined in Section 12.03, his hiring date after his last break in service.
Time off due to sickness or accident: must be certified by a licensed physician, dentist or chiropractor. An employee who has accrued seniority and is on authorized leave of absence on Union Business shall accrue seniority while on such leave.
An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Union shall continue to accrue seniority for a period not exceeding one month and retain such accrued seniority for a period not exceeding six (6) months, unless otherwise mutually agreed to. An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Company in a position beyond the scope of this Agreement shall continue to accrue and retain seniority for a period not exceeding three (3) months unless otherwise mutually agreed to. Such employee may upon proof of Union member-ship in good standing, exercise his seniority to return to the bargaining unit.
12.01	(b) Employees who are or become pregnant shall be allowed such time off as medically required by their condition without loss of se-niori ty.
12.01	(c) An employee who has been absent from work due to accident._ sickness, pregnancy or authorized leave of absence has the right to
return 10 the iob classification he hold prior to such absence. 'if there should be conclusive evidence than an employee has carried out work during his absence which would demonstrate he would have been able to carry out his regular functions with the Company, such employee's seniority will be cancelled.
- 17 -
ARTICLE XII - Seniority !cont1d)
12.02 (a)	a new employee of the Company
shall be considered as probationary until he has completed 30 days of work in one period of employment, except in case of lay-off. Seniority of a new employee shall be established at the end of this period and shall be effective from the date of employment.
An employee shall lose all seniority if he:
quits or is discharged and not reinstated.
fails to report work work following recall as provided in Section 12.04 lb) or fails to return from authorized absence on the date specified unless in either case his return to work on time rs"evented by circumstances beyond his control , and he has taken the necessary steps to advise the foreman.
12.04	(a)	In cases of lay-off, the Company
will notify in writing the employees intended to be laid off and the Union Steward at Least five ( 5) working clays in advance.
In cases of lay-off of a duration of five (3) working days or less the above five (5) days' notice will be reduced to two (2) days' notice.
12.03
a)
b)
However, in case of a general layoff, notice of lay-off will be posted on the Bulletin Boards of the Company five (5) working days in advance. Absent employees at time of notice of lay-off, will be advised in writing of said lay-off.
Except in cases of lay-off due to breakdown or electrical power failure, the employees affected will be paid in accordance with Article 11.03 and will be permitted to exercise their seniority rights to another job che same day and for the following day on their scheduled shifts. Should the breakdown last more than the above mentioned period, the employees will be permitted to exercise their seniority rights for another iob on any shift in accordance with 12.01 (a) . “
- 1.8 -
ARTICLE Xlt - Seniority (cont'd)
12.04	(b)	When the date of rocalL is known
or anticipated at the time of lay-off, employees leaving will be informed accordingly. In all other cases, notice in writing will be mailed to the employee at his given address with copy to the Union Office, at least ten (10) days before he is required to report to work. Employees will be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice within four (4) days and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made in writing. However, a direct verbal conversation with the employee or employees involved wiIL be sufficient notice to return to work on mutual agreement by the Company and the employee(s). An employee who avails himself of time Limits provided herein has no claim in connection with time worked by another employee.
12.04	(c)	If,	as a result	of a lay-off	or
for apv other re a son it is neces sarvto transfer an employee from one job classification to another, senior employees will be given preference. Provided the employee has the aptitudes of skill, efficiency and ability, he will he trained by the Company in order to meet the job reguirements. An employee wi 1 I be allowed five (5) working c]avs in wh i eh to qualify or such other period as ma y be mutually agreed to.
12.04	(d)	For	layoffs of less than three	(3)
months, employees	affected will	revert back	to
their original job once normal operation resumes, unless he has applied on a permanent vacancy during the above mentioned period.
L2.05 (a)	When an employee transfers at the
request of the Company to meet production requirements, to a lower paying job, the employee will he paid at the rate of the job from which he has so transferred. It is understood that such transfers will he made in conform! ty to seniority provi.s i on.s .
12.05	(b)	For	4 transfer at	the reguest	of
the employee, payment from the date of transfer will be made at the rate of the new occupation of
classification.
L2.05 (c)	For ail other transfers (including
but not Limited to transfers due to inefficiency, inability, health, safety and demotions for cause) payment shalL be made at the rate for the job to which the transfer is effected.
12.05 (d)	Promotions shall mea” advancement
to a job which carries a higher rate of pay, ora
reduction i n shi ft rotation.
- 1.9 -
ARTICLE XII - Seniority (cont'd)
12.06	L. Where any vacancies occurs immediate notice thereof will be posted o n the bulletin boar; for a period of five (5) working days for which the Company may make a temporary a Dpoiniment to such vacant job. However, in case replacement is required for a vacancy of less than fifLeen (15) consecutive working days, such vacancy may be filled by temporary appointment without posting.
Re:	Posting In the Plywood department
job vacancies occuring during the period of a
Statutory Holiday, said holiday will be cons-dered a work day. Ln the event that more than one Statutory Holiday occurs during a posting period, such vacancy will be posted for a period of five ( 5) working days
2. Employees will not be considered for a vacant job, unless they apply in writing during the five (5) day period on forms to be supplied by the Company. A cop)’ of such form will b e
retained by the applicant and one copy of such form wil 1 be given to the Steward. All possible effort will be made to advise absent employees of such vacancy, provided the employee has indicated in advance his desire to be so advised.
3. The vacancy will be filled bv the senior applicant who, provided he has the apt i-ludes of skill, efficiency and ability, will be trained by the Company in order to meet the job
requirements. An employee filling the posted vacancy shall be allowed a minimum of five (5) working days in which to qualify or any further time as may be mutually agreed, this does not apply however, to an employee who, in the past, has successfully filled such vacancy. Failure of a" employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his former job. Name(s) of successful applicant(s) will be posted for at Least five (5) working days by the Company on the bulletin board in all cases.
12.07	An employee who has successfully claimed and filj.ed a job shall be ineligible to further bid for another vacancy before three (3) months have elapsed unless such vacancy is a promotion.
ARTICLE XII Senior* (cont'd)
12.08	a Seniority list shalL be prepared and posted monthLv on the bulletin hoard by the Company, showing each employee's name with Christian names, clock number and effective cl ate of hiring. Copies of such list shall be mailed to the Union Steward and the Union Office. SEniority list of each department shall be posted on all bulletin boards.
12.09	Seniority will besetup and maintained on departmental basis. One department will be comprised of all employees at and out of the
Plywood Plant. The other department will be comprised of all employees at and out of the Parti-cleboa rd Plant.
Inter-department transfers will be allowed only in case there is a vacancy in one department which must be filled by hiring. In such case, employees of the other department will be given preference over new hires.
An employee transferring from one department to the other under the aforementioned circumstances, will, for purposes of fringe benefits, retain all his seniority already accrued. For purposes of actual exercising of seniority, such said employee's seniority will begin accruing on the date his transfer becomes effective. An employee transferring in the manner described herein will be considered as having filled a vacancy in accordance with the terms 'of Section 12.06.
12.L0	In addition to the provisions of
Section 12.09 there will. be a third department comprised of all employees attached to the following operations:	Shipping - Machine Shop - Garage.
Vacancies in this third department will be open to employees of either of the other two departments. Employees who successfully bid for such vacancies will retain and continue to accrue seniority in the department in which they we re originally hired.
Employees presently employed in the third department will retain and continue to accrue semiority in the department in which they were originally hired.
Employees hired i. partment will accrue seniority department.
i the third dein the plywood
- 21 -
APTIOLE . ______Seniority (cont'd)
1L is agreed	-•c';nod that
the Yard Carry Lift 950 i.:	il.l. belongs to the
Particleboard department, will remain to the Plywood department until such time as it becomes vacant. Upon becoming vacant this classification shall revert back to the particleboard department and posting and filling of the vacancy will be made in accordance with Section 12.06 and 12.09.
ARTICLE XIII - Bulletin Boards
13.01	The Union shall have the right to
post notices dealing with Union affairs upon Bulletin Boards of the Company, such notices to have the approval of Company management before such posting.
ARTICLE XIV - Health and Welfare
14.01	(a) For each employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, the Company will ,d%v the premium cost of O.H.I.P. Drug Plan bill (equivalent to the current Blue Cross Drug Plan) and semi-private Hospital Care Plan monthly.
14.01	(b) The Company will pay for a drug plan benefit whereby an employee, upon having a prescribed drug ordered, must pay the druggist a flat rate of thirty-five C6PIIS (.350) per prescription, the balance being covered by the carrying insurance Company.
14.01	(e) For married employees where both are working, the Company will pay one amount of the married contribution and one single to be paid direct to the employee. For employees covered outside this plan the Company will pay the single contribution direct to the employee.
14.01	(d) If there should be a net reduction in the premiums charged for Medical, Surgical Insurance due to a revision of the O.H.I.P. by either the Federal and/or Provincial Governments, the Company's contribution will not be reduced from the amounts set out in this Article.
ARTICLE XIV - Health and Welfare (cont'd)
14.01	(d)	If the Company's contribution ex-
ceeds the premiums required for Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care Insurance, the balance will be applied to such other employee benefits as may be agreed upon between the Company and the Union. Pending agreement between the Company and the Union as to the application of contributions over and above the premiums required such additional monies will be paid direct to the employee.
LIFE INSURANCE
14.02	The Company will provide and pay
the full cost of a twenty-five thousand dollars ( $25,000.00 ) life insurance and an accidental death and dismemberment benefit for up to a maximum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each employee. Effective June 1,	1991,
coverage will be increased to thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00).
WEEKLY I NDEMNTTY
14.03	The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of a Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. The Plan will provide seventy (70%) percent of Weekly earnings (40 hours times an employee's regular rate) up to the U.[.C. maximum, to commence on the first day in case of non-compensable accident and or hospitalization on the fourth (4th) continuous day from the commencement of a disability due to sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks, combined with IJ.I.C. benefits. Employees not qualifying for U.I.C. benefits will maintain continued coverage under the Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan.
14.03	(a) The Company's contribution towards Health and Welfare package will continue for a period of up to twelve (12) months when an employee is off work due to a Workmen's Compensation Claim or a short term disability claim. Employee will have to apply or have someone apply on their behalf immediately at the time of ill-, ness or accident.
- 23-
article XIV - - Health and Welfare (cont'd)
14.03	(fc) For employees who qualify under Article
XII, the:	Company agrees that an employee shell be
paid at the reguLar rate for the balance of his shift lost because of in.iujrv while at work. It is also agreed and understood that where an employee is unable to return to v;ork, he will be required to show proof to quality for the above.
DISPUTED W.C.B. CLAIM
If an employee covered by the Company’s present	Weekly	Indemnity	Plan suffers	a disa-
bility for which payment is in dispute with the W.C.B.,	Weekly	Indemnity	payment	will	be made
retroactively if requested by the employee and provided	he has	been off	work for	at	least one
(11 month due to the disability without W.C.B. having accepted the claim and providing the employee in subject to the rules a nd regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity Plan. If the W.C.B. claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the Weekly Indemnity payment(s) received to the appropriate fund.
VISION CARE PLAN
14.04	The Company shall	institute	and	pay the
premium cost of a Vision Care Plan equivalent to the $60/24 Blue Cross Plan. Effective June 1, 1992 increase L O $80/24.
BEREAVEMENT PAY
14.05	When death occurs	to a	member of	an
employee's immediate family, that is:	an em-
ployee's father, mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law and grandparents both sides. The employee will be granted leave and	shal	1 be paid for	eight	(8) hours	at
hi s regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days. Five (5) days leave with [pay will be provided on death of an employee s spouse or children. The day of the funeral must be one of the three (3) days. The in Lent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings.
Any claim for bereavement pay must be submit ted by the employee to the Company in
w r L i ng , along with proof of bereavement in the employee’s immediate family.
It is understood that Cor purpose of this Article step-relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives.
24
JURY DUTY ALLOWANCE
14.06	In the case of a" employee who is called for jury service, or is subpoenaed as a witness by the Crown, the Company shall pay, for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate, and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore when making his claim for such a 1lowance.
14.07	It is the duty of every employee to advise the paymaster of any change regarding the following:
1)	Marital Status
2)	Change of Insurance Beneficiary
3)	New dependants with date of birth
4)	Change of address and telephone number
ARTICLE XV - Management Rights
13.01	The Union agrees that the Company has the exclusive right and power to manage the plants, to direct the work force, and to hire, promote, transfer or lay-off employees and to suspend or discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause; provided that the Company agrees that any exercise of these rights and powers shall be subject to the express provision of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XVI - Dental Care Plan
16.01	The Company will maintain a Dental Care Plan with participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis:
1.	Eligibility:
Participation in this plan is limited to employees who have accumulated one hundred and twenty (120) days (6 months) seniority with the Company.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period a" employee is off work due to lay-off or leave of absence, not to exceed one hundred and twenty (120) days (6 months) .
2.	Plan Design:
a) Services and benefits as provided in Blue cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1.
ARTICLE XVI
- 25 -
Dental Care Plan (cont'd)
2. Plan Design: (cont'd)
b) Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2 (50%). The Plan provides for the application of the 1989 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees. Effective January 1 >	1991 the plan will provide
for 1990 O.D.A. and effective January 1,	1992, the plan to provide for 1991,
O.D.A. Schedule of Fees and effective January 1 •,	1993the Plan will provide
for the 1992 O.D.A. Schedule of fees. Maximum of $1,000.00 per calendar year per person.
The Company agrees to provide the Union with a copy of Rules and Regulations relating to the Plan.
3 . Administration:
The plan will be administered in accordance v.'ith an appropriate contract or set or procedures reflecting the plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, insurance Companies, or sel f-administration will he made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	Premiums :
The premium cost of this plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	In tegration:
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement, Federal or Provincial governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan, the plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
- 26 -
ARTICLE XVI - Dental Care Plan (cont'd)
NOTE :	The employee montly premiums cost con-
tribution for the above mentioned benefits for the term of this Collective Agreement will be as follows:
Single-$3.00 through payroll deduction
Married-$5.00 through payroll deduction
ARTICLE XVII - Long Term Disability Plan
Effective June 1, 1981, the Company wil-1 institute and maintain a Long Term Disability Plan as per Schedule "A" attached.
SCHEDULE "A”
The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of a" insurance policy.
1.	Eligibility
The Long 'Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated 45 days seniority with the Company .
2.	Effective Date of Coverage
A" eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan becomes effective.
A" eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
- 27 -
2.	Effective Date of Coverage (cont'di
The Company shall have the right to give medi cal examinations co employees renaming from such lay-off to determine their el igi-bility under the plan.
3.	Qua!ifying Period
An insured employer shal1 be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit after fifty--two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of. the strike.
4.	Definition of Disability
"Disabled" and "Disability" mean:
a) Until the individual has received Disability Income Benefit payments as a result of the disability for 24 months, the complete inability of the individual due to injury, disease, pregnancy or mental disorder to perform any and every duty pertaining to his occupation, and
b) After the individual has received Disa-bi 1 i ty Income Benefit payment as a result of the disability for 24 months, the complete inability of the individual due to injury, disease, pregnancy or mental disorder to engage in any and every gainful occupation foi* which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience. However, an individual will be deemed lo cease to be disabled if he engages in any gainfull occupation except as pirovided in the Rehabilitation Section.
5.	Amount of:	Benefit
(a) The disability benefit shal 1 be 50v. of monthly earnings as defined in (5b) , up tc a maximum monthly payment of >1,100.00 per month. Effective June Lst, L991 the maximum monthly payment	wi 11 be	increased to
$1,200.00 per month. Effective June 1,	1.992
the monthly maximum payment wi.l l increase to $1,300.00 per month.
Eb) "Monthly Earnings" means, in the case of a day or shift worker, 173 x his regular hourly rates;
- 28 -
5.	Amount of Benefit (cont'd)
(c)	"Hourly Rate" means the regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occured, excluding overtime or shift bonus.
(d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced by any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefits are not affected by War pensions, W.C. Disability Pensions, or by any insurance policies he may have purchased himself.
6.	Duration of Benefit
(a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
(b)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears.
7.	Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence oE any one of the following:
(a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (65 months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
(c)	Up to normal retirement age, or
(d)	On death.
- 29 -
Long Term Disability Benefit Plan ( cent 1 d )
8 . Exc 1.us ion
(a) An employee receiving Long Term Di s-abi.Li.Ly Benefits will. noc be eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
b) Benefits under the Long Term Disability
Plan will not he payable for claims resulting from:
i i i )
( iii )
( i v)
(vi)
Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
Any injux*y or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workmen1s Compensation or similar Legislation, or
Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, whiLo sane or insane , or
Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism ar.d drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a licensed phys ici an .
Disability or loss ■. 1 ) wh i 1 e the employee is on, or could be placed on kvegnancy/ Maternity Leave, or (2) if employee fails to qualify for Pregnaney/Malernity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Prognancy/Mater-nity Leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
- 30 -
Long Term Disability Benefit Plan (coni'’d)
9.	Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation mesures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodical physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee’s absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
ARTICLE XVIII - Pension Plan
The Company agrees to establish a plan to provide pensions at retirement to become effective on October 1st, 1986. This Pension Plan will be in the form of a $25.00 per month defined contribution to be deposited with a trustee to the credit of the individual accounts under the Plan. The Company also agrees to contribute a” additional $15.00 per month to each eligible employee conditional on the individual employee contributing an egual amount of $15.00 per month to the Plan.
Cost of establishing the account for each employee and the ongoing cost of administering and investment will be deducted from each account.
- 31 -
ARTICLE XVIII - Pension Plan (cont'cl)
The Company agrees to contribute during each month on and after the effective date, $25.00 to the account of each member of the plan who is on the Company's active payroll in the month. The Company also agrees to contribute an additional $15.00 per month per eligible employee conditional on the individual employee contributing an equal amount of $15.00 per month to the plan.
Full time employees will join the plan after completing one year of continuous service.
Effective June 1st, 1991 -- $25/20/20 Effective June 1st, 1992 -- $25/30/30 Effective Dec. 1st, 1992 -- $35/35/35
GENERAL
There will be no preferred
bonuses paid in money or in kind under cumstances unless approved in writing ment between the Company and the Onion.
rates or any cir-by Agree-
PAID EDiJCATIONNAL LEAVE
The Company agrees to pay a flat amount of $1,200.00 per year to the Union.
SIGNED IN HEARST, ONTARIO THIS	DAY OF
1991.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION
Hetve Levesque
])onald Bisson
Norman Rivard
Damien Roy Mike Fournier
Andre Parent
Leo Levasseur
Andre Morin
- 32 -
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAM
1.	Apprenticeship openings will be filled in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.06 herein.
Note:	Applicant to be advised that they
will require grade 10 or equivalent.
2.	There will be a probationary period of up to three (3) months or any further time may be mutually agreed to between the Company and the Union, prior to entering into an apprenticeship agreement during which time the employee may return or failing to display the necessary mechanical aptitude, be returned to his former job classification without loss of seniority.
3.	Any apprentice who fails his first year exams shall be required to be re-examined within twelve (12) months but not earlier than six (6) months. Failure to pass the re-examination will result in the apprentice being dropped from the program and returned to his former job classification without loss of seniority.
4.	Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract he must continue to fulfill the obligations of the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5.	The Company will make up the difference between the Canada Manpower Training Program allowances and the employee's normal earnings based on his regular straight time rate, multiplied by 40 hours per week. For purposes of calculation the Canada Manpower at home allowance shall be used.
6.	For all Tradesmen
Wherever possible, every effort will be made by the Company to provide training courses which will assist these desiring to qualify themselves to write the provincial examination in the trade, in order to obtain a Class "A" designation.
- 33 -
Trade Apprentice Program (cont'd)
7.	Tradesmen Tools
Tradesmen will furnish all hand tools common to the trade. Mechanics will furnish spanners up to 1-1/4" opening, sockets up to and including 1/2" drive and 1-1/4" opening adjustable wrenches up to 18" in length, 'hammers, chisels punches and screw drivers. The Company agree!; to replace any personal tools broken in service provided that such broken tools are returned. The Company agrees to provide tools to tradesmen at cost. The Company will provide on loan any special tools including power driven tools, testing and measuring instruments and gauged,3 pullers, sockets over 1/2" drive, spanners over l-L/4" opening.
In the event that the common tools of trades-me" are required to be in metric measurement such tools shall be provided on loan by the Company.
8.	Should an apprenticeship posting be developed because of a tradesman transfer from one department to the other, the posting for the apprenticeship will be posted in the department where the tradesman is trans-posted in the department where the tradesman is transfered. It is understood that the apprentice will have to transfer, according to the seniority clause, to the department where the apprenticeship program is needed.
JOB DESCRIPTION FOR TRADESMEN
INDUSTRIAL MECHANIC!; (Millwrights) Industrial Mechanic "A":
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certi ficate of Qualification in that Trade.
Industrial Mechanic "1":
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all Industrial Mechanic jobs assigned to him in a" efficient manner.
- 34 -
JOB DESCRIPTION FOR TRADESMEN (cont'd)
Industrial Mechanic "11" :
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that trade.
Industrial Mechanic "111":
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Industrial Mechanic "IV":
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
2. ELECTRICIANS:
Electrician "A":
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Electrician "1":
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all Electrical jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner.
Electrician "11":
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Electrician "111":
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Electrician "IV":
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
3. MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS
Motor Vehicle Mechanic "A":
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
- 35 -
Motor Vehicle Mechanic
Muse have successfully completed the Fourth Year Training Program in that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner, on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment and other equipment generally used in the Company operations.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic "11":
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that Trade.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic "111":
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic "IV":
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
4.	WELDERS
Welder "A" :
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Welder "1":
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all welding jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner.
Welder "11":
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that ’Trade.
Welder "111":
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that ’Trade.
- 36 -
JOB DESCRIPTION (cont'd)
Welder "IV":
Mus t have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
5.	INDUSTRIAL MACHINISTS
Industrial Machinist "A":
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Industrial Machinist "1":
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all machinist jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner.
Industrial Machinist "11":
Must. have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Industrial Machinist "111":
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Industrial Machinist "IV":
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
6.	PLANT CARPENTERS
Plan&Carpenter "A" _
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Plant Carpenter "1":
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program, or must be capable under direction of performing all plant carpentry assigned to him in an efficient manner.
- 37
JOB DESCRIPTION (cont'd)
Plant: carpenter Mll"
Must have successfully completed Che Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Plant CarpenCer "111":
Must have successfully completed tie First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Plant Carpenter "IV"i
Mus t have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
- 38 -
WAGE SCHEDULE
PLYWOOD DEPARTMENT
Classifies Cion:			WAGE RATES	
	June L/90	Dec. 15/90	June 1/91	June 1/92
Pond Attendant	$13.63		$14.23	$14.88
Debarker Oper.	13.82	$	14.42	15.07
Mechanical Saw Oper.	13.76	13.77	14.37	15.02
t t-k^ n.-,,-..-	14 43		i s. na	1 A Aft
Clipper Operator (green)	13.82		14.42	15.07
Tailer 4 ’	13.82		14.42	15.07
Tailer 8'	13.82		14.42	15.07
Fishtail Saw	13.63		14.23	14.88
Dryer Feeder and				
Outfeeder	13.63		14.23	14.88
Glue Spreader Feeder	13.65		14.25	14.90
Lay Up Lead	13.82		14.42	15.07
Lay Up	13.65		14.25	14.90
Press Oper.	14.04		14.64	15.29
Trim Saw Oper.	1-3-<8		14.57	15.22
Sander "per.		14.17	14.67	15-32
Patchers	13.63		14.23	14.88
Clipper Dry	13.52		14.12	14.77
Glue Mixers	13.76	13.77	14.37	15.02
Life Truck. Oper.	13.82		14.42	15.07
Putty Line	13.52		14.12	14.77
Veneer Graders	13.77		14.37	15.02
Plywood Inspector Sr.			14.75	15.40
Plywood Inspector		14.15	14.75	ip. AO
WAGE SCHKIjnLh: c <_
! ON
Watchman and Clo.m I' j-> Yard Carry LI ft Opor. ■•v Spa reman
Lunch Room Attendant
ElectrLcian	E . D .	
Electrician	Class	"A"
E1 e c t r i. c 1 a n	Class	" i •’
Electrician	Class	"II"
Electrician	Clas s	"III
Electrician	Class	"IV"
Mi 1Iwright	C1 a s s 11	A" A
Ir
i t i c
111"
&trumon t
Mi 1lwright CLis s Millwright Clar.s Millwright Class Millwright Class Millwright. Class Welder Class "A"
Welder Class "I”
Welder Class "11” Welder Class "ill" Welder Class "IV"
Knife Crind or "A"
Knife Grinder "B"
Knife Grinder "C" Bulledger Cores Handyman & Fire Equip. Ate c-rici.-jrit
Mininum Kates replacing On
17.47 16.7.? 1 ■:». 9 8 15.11 1 4 . B 5 1-1.06 16.7 2
1 ■:
. Ob
15. 10 1-1 .66 13.86
WAGE RATES OKC 15/90	JUNK 1
ighost Kate
•j i 1 1 apply when t. h higher rate.
JUNE 1 1-1.68 15.-10 15.11 14 .7 7 18-9?
1 S . 1 7
17.23 1.6 . 36
1 6 . 1 4 1. 5.91
18.92
18.17
17.23 16.36 16.14
15.91
18.17 17.28
1 6 . 1. 4
1 5 . 9 1 17.08 16.35
15.91 .15.11
14.88
- AO -
WAGE GCIIEDUfcfi - PARTT.C1 F.BOAFD DEPARTMENT
Classification:	v.iaap. RATES
HEAT TRANSFER UNITS COMPRESSOR, DRYERS ETC.	JUNE 1'90	DEC 15/90	JUNE 1/91	JUNE ;
Operator	14 . 10		14 .70	15 . 35
GREEN7—END				
Casual Labour	13.63		14.23	14 .88
DRY END				
Glue Kitchen	14 . 10		14 . 70	15.35
Press Operator	14 . 20		14 .80	15.45
Swing	14 . 20		14 . 80	15.45
QUALITY CONTROL				
Laboratory Lead	15.19		15.79	16.44
La bora Cory	13.86		14.46	15.11
FINISHING				
Fork Lift Oper.	13.82		14 4 2	15.07
Sander Operator	14 . 20	14 .40	15.00	15.65
Grade Line Operator	13.8 6		7 4 4 6	15.11
WAGE SCHEDULE -• PARTI CI .EBOARD DEPARTMENT (c:ont ' f 1 )
			 „ ,					wag t	KATES		
OTHERS:				.,u	NK 1 / ■>	) HPC I'P'.IO	JUNK 7/01	.HJN i;	
L.i.	nch Room	AvE end.-i i	11	.i	. 7 R		l A . ?. i a . 7 •:>		. 7 7
Y.i	i-cl , Oiler.	, D \_i ni pel	- % Sc.il	•1	. 1 ‘i			3 _<	. TD
Y.t	Sp;ir.-iTi,-.n re) He I. po r			<1	. 1 o		p . Pi	3 A	. HH
C;i	sual l-.-ibour line		studv	nU					
W.	e kernel Cl i.			Ji	. l> 3			.1 8	- lJ ~
ELcctri e i . j n		Cl n ::	•A"	(■>	. 7 7	] r. o ;>			• 1 '
Eloctri c i .■ 111		E . D .		7	. A 1			1 8	- y •
					'/ !i			2 !	. .3 S
		Gl.ee.	’ll"	1 0	. : i		10.7]		
		Cl. n	• 1 11”	A	. no		7 7 . 0		
		Cl.-i r: ;;	•IV"	A	. <> (>		1 !> . R 6		
		Gloss A	A 1 11 •. 1	1. 7	. A 7	7 7.07	i a . v		
		C 1 ,j : :. ”		i 6		i n o	J 7 . J		
		C 1 .■ i ; ; 1	•1	1 >.	. on				
MJ	1 Iwri /■!■> f	C t- i •’	J ■ ■	P	. 1 2		1 ■> . .1		
Mi.	I lwriv.m	C 1. i S :. •'	1 I "	A	. H o				. i 'i
Mi 1 lwr-i ehc		Gloss "		A	. <> <.>		IV..' (>	7 ,j	- 1
		' A " M							
	P . Welder			7	. •! 7	A / . U 1	1 ;?. . 7		. 1 7
Wo	1 d o r C 1 .i •>	'' A"		V.	. 7 R	1 i • . P	7 /.OR		
Wi.	.1. do i" C .1..) r	S r. j ..			.’’H		So. ' H		• ■' 1
w<	Icier Clnf	s "7 1"						! s	: t'V
W i■	I do r C 1 .i :	•. "IV"		■7			i :> . r r.	i	. O .1
Kn	i l"..- Or 1 nc:	or "A"		'	. <> <	1 0 . H <	1 < • . A '•		. o...
Kn	i IT (.• Or i ik	or "Ji"		O	. I o			i «.	
Kn	I f e Gri nr;	<_• r " C"		•1	. <»r>		1 O . 1.	1 '	- '-1 ’
1 1	•one C.i rp.	nler "A		i	. t R	1 t. . OR	1 / . . R		. 1 /
P 1	• * n t C:irpc						! i. . •H		• •-
I' 1	Jill C. 1 r pe	lit or "I	"						. 7/1
P 1	. (' . 1- p.'	n t o r "1	1 "	•1	. HO		1 O . o		
1 ’ 1	■inf. C-.ll-pr			•1	- 'o>		I O . R <1		
....	M i. n nv.Mii	Koto;. •	Hi >d->v.	t R	lie w 1	1 ; i p p 1 y wTx.m			
	l-o p L . i c i vi); on e .		1 e. 1 t . e	'' 1 1	m Witt	h , p.he r i ,i I c -			
WAGE SCHEDULE (conC'd)
THIRD DEPARTMENT
Classification:	WAGE .RATES
			JUNE 1'90	DEC 15/90	JUNE 1/01	JUNE l-'92
Shipping			13.99		14 . 59	15.24
Mechanic	Class 1	-A"	16.72	16 - 92	17.52	18 . 17
Mechanic	Class '		15 . 98		16 . 58	17.23
Mechanic	Class '	'll"	15.11		15.71	16.36
Mechanic	Class '	’III"	14 . 89		15.49	16.14
Mechanic	Class '	•IV"	14.66		15 . 26	15.91
Machinist	Class	"A"	16.72	16.92	17 52	18 . 17
Machinist	Class	"I"	15.98		16.58	17.23
Machinist	^ j_ a b ^	"II	15.11		15.71	16.36
Machinist	Class	"III"	14 . 89		15.49	16. 14
Machinist	Class	"IU"	14 . 66		15.26	15.91
-	43
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
and
IWA CANADA LOCAL 1-2995
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
R [MARTICLE 2.01 (b)
Where circumstances are such, that
there would be serious difficulties for the Company i n the application of the terms of this Article in connection with construction projects it. is agreed that disposition will be taken between the Company and the Union to resolve such difficulties by mutual, agreement.
Hauling operations of raw materials and finished products of the Company are excluded from the term of the Collective Agreement
RI:: YARD WORK. INCIDENTAL TO LOGGING
The unloading of cars of veneer Logs in Company’s yard shall continue to be performed by the employees of the woods department.
SIGNED IN H e a r s t , Ontario,
this	dayof	,1991.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
HERVE LEVESQUE
DONALD BISSON
HIKE FOURNIER
ANDRE PARENT
LEO LEVASSEUR
ANDRE MORIN
NORMAN RIVARD
DAMIEN ROY
- 44 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
and
IWA CANADA LOCAL 1-2995
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
RE: VACATION SHUTDOWN AND TRADESMEN
Whenever possible, all tradesmen will be required Co work during the plane vacation shutdown and will be allowed to Lake vacation tine off at a time convenient to them and the Company in order not to jeopardize the plant operation.
SIGNED IN Hearst, Ontario,
this	day of	, L991
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION
MVELEVESQUE	NOMN RIVARD
DONALD BISSON	' DAMIEN ROY ’
MIKE FOURNIER ANDRE PARENT LEO LEVASSEUR mm MORIN
45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
and
IWA CANADA LOCAL 1-2995
(hereina f ter referred to as the "Union")
RE: EMPLOYEE ON L'.C.B. AND W.I.
It is agreed that employee on W.C.B. and L1. I . claims will be required to report in person every two weeks to their respective plant superintendent or the personnel director of Company. Should they be prevented from doing so by reason of health or reasons beyond their control, they should advise their plant superintendent or personnel director by telephone or have someone on their behalf do it.
SIGNED IS Hearst, Ontario,
this	day of_______________, 1991
FOR THE COMPANY :	FOR THE UNION
HERVE LEVESQUE	NORMAN RIVARD
DONALD BISSON "	"	DAM IEN~ROY
~	MIKE FOURiNIER
ANDRE PARENT
’ ’	”	LEO LEVASSEUR
ANDRE MORIN
- 46 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
and
IWA CANADA LOCAL 1-2995
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
RE: Mechanic’s Wage Adjustment
A wage adjustment of 0.71 cents per hour shall be paid conditionnal that:
1)	The affected employees must be in possession of a class "A" drivers licence.
2)	Mechanics will be required to work on logging site if requested.
SIGNED IN Hearst, Ontario,
this _______ day of_______________, 1991.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
HERVE LEVESQUE	NORMAN RIVARD
DONALD BISSON	DAMIEN ROY
MLKE FOURNIER
* ~	'	’	ANDRE PARENT
LEo LevaSSETjr “"
~	’	ANDRE MORIN	~
47
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
and
IWA CANADA LOCAL 1-2995
{hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
RE: OVERTIME AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
1)	Ef feet ive January 1,	1989 overtime in the
Plywood department will be distributed as per the employment Standard Act.
2)	Company wil 1 be allowed to hire part-time employees to replace regular employees o n
floaters, vacation and leave of absence.
3)	These two above measures are to be on a trial basis for the period of January 1, 1989 to May 31, 1990.
4)	It is further agreed to compile a schedule effective January 1, 1988 which will show the overtime accumulated in all plant. Such overtime list will be for a period of 6 months and the overtime sheet shall he posted in lunchroom.
SIGNED IN Hearst, Ontario,
this	day of ______________, 1991.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
HEAVE LEWISQUE CAFTAN LOXGVAL DONALD BISSON
NORMAN RIVARD'
DAMIEN ROY MIKE FOURNIER ANDRE PARENT LEO LEVASSDJR
ANDRE MORIN
- 48 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
and
IWA CANADA LOCAL 1-2995
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
RE; Uork P^rm.tt, Contractors and their employees
All contractors and their employees shall pay work permit for every months or part Lherec which shall be deducted by the Company an
forwarded to the Local Union Office.
It is understood that the above shall not appL to consultant, salesman and engineer.
SIGNED IN Hearst, Ontario,
t h i s day of _________________, 1991.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
HERVE LEVESQUE	NORMAN RIVARD
GAErAN LONGVAL	~	DAMIEN ROY
DONALD BISSON	MIKE FOURNIER
ANDRE PARENT CEO LRVASSEUR
ANDRE MORIN
49
LETTRE D’ENTENTE entire
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED et
1WA CANADA LOCAL 1-2995
SUJET: PERMIS DE TRAVAIL, CONTRACTEURS ET SES
EMPLOYES:------------------------------------------
Toui Tes contracteurs et leurs employes devront payer un perirls de travail pour tous les mois ou seulemer.t une partie du mois de travail.
Ce permis de travail sera deduit par la Compagnie et ensuite envoyd a 1'Union. II est entendu que les mesures cl-hauc mcntionndes ne s1appLiqueront pas pour les consultants, vendeurs et ingdnleurs.
SICNE A HEARST, ONTARIO, CE JOUR DE _______, 1991.
POUR LA COMPAGNIE:	POUR L'UNtON:
KBRVE LEVESQUE	NORMAN RIVARD
DONALD IllSSON	DAMIEN ROY
MIKE FOURNIER
ANDRE PARENT
LEO LEVASSEUR
ANDRE MORIN