SOURCE	A*s/aS<Oh) _		
EFF.	<?V	//	ZL_
TERM.	90	(l	JSL
No. OF , gy / EMPLOYEES ( !<			
N0M8RE
D'EMPLOYE's
COLI.ECT X VX.
BARGA X N X NG
AGRiatMliINT
I <> r > \ .t i ! i
DASHWOOD INDUSTRIES UMI TED, CENTRA IX A, ONTAIi] 0.
and
THE UNITED BROTOEKHOOD OF CARPENTERS
AND JOINERS OF AMERICA. UXIAL 3054.
IX fact ive Dal e :	—	November	IBth,	11)9--I
Expiry Date :	-	November	15Lh,	1996
Jfiki 1C <nnr;
JAN 16 1995
0(0(!Oi
ARTICLE
1.01
ARTICLE
2.01
2.02
2.03
1	- PURPOSE
The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours of work and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
2	- RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all its employees covered under the terms of this Collective Agreement, save and except Foremen, persons above the rank of Foreman, Office and Sales Staff.
When an employee covered by this Collective Agreement and the necessary equipment is available for the employee Io perform work in m y of the job classifications where the employee normally works, no Foreman, person above the rank of Foreman or other persons not covered by this Collective Agreement shall perform work normally performed by the employees in the job classifications except for the purposes of instruction, experimenting or in cases of emergency.
(a)	Any person employed as a student who elects to become a permanent employee and is accepted by the Company, will have his seniority and all other conditions of employment commence from the date of his acceptance by the Company as a permanent employee.
(b)	The Company agrees that. no students will be hired within ninety (90) calendar days of the date when regular employees are to be terminated because of the expiry of their recall rights as prescribed by Article 14.06 (d) of this Collective Agreement..
2
2,04	It is understood and agreed between the parties to this Collective
Agreement that should the Company opt to service customers from other locations in the Province of Ontario, normally serviced by employees covered under the terms of this Collective Agreement, then the positions created	shall first be offered to these employees
aforementioned, before new employees are hired to perform the newly created jobs.
ARTICLE 3	- UNION SECURITY
3.01	All present employees covered under the terms of this Collective Agreement on the effective date of this Agreement and every new employee upon the completion of the probationary period, shall join the Union and remain a member of the Union in good standing as a condition of continued employment with the Company.
Probationary employees will be entitled to coverage under the Insurance and Welfare programs as set, forth in Schedule "C" to take effect on the first day of the month following the completion of twenty-five (25) days worked.
Probationary employees who have worked twenty-five (25) days shall receive payment, for the Paid Holidays covered in Article 13.01.
3.02	The Company agrees that it shall deduct from all employees covered by this Agreement including probationary employees, an amount equal to the regular monthly Union dues which is two (2) times the employee's current hourly rate per month as prescribed by Local 3054. Said sums shall be remitted to the Union during the: week following the week of deduction. The Company shall, when remitting such duos, name the employees from whose pay such deductions were made.
The Company shall, not deduct, any additional dues, fees or assessments without the specific written direction and authorization of the Union
3
and in no case will the Company be held responsible for any dues, fees or assessments improperly deducted when the procedure herein is followed.
3.03 In order to protect the empJ-°yee(3 good standing cf membership in
the Union as required by Article 3.01, and in the event any employee in the Bargaining Unit falls into arrears of Dues by failing to work in the week that Union Dues are deducted because of lay-off, accident, sickness, leave of absence or vacation and the regular monthly Union
Dues are not, remitted to the Union, the recovery of any such a-'rears will be accomplished by the following method;
1.	A member who falls one (1) or two (2) months in arrears will have the total arrears deducted from one (1) pay upon their return to work.
2.	A member who falls more than two (2) months in arrears will have one (1) month's dues deducted from each week’s pay until the arrears have been caught up.
Should any employee anticipate or encounter personal difficulties with the application of Sub-Sections 1 and 2 of this Article, alternative methods may be arranged between the employee and the Union to assist in the recovery of such arrears with the least amount of inconvenience to
the employee. The Union will advise the Company in writing of such cases outlining the agreement reached and the Company will make the deductions as arranged.
ARTICLE 4	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01 The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to hire, promote, classify, transfer and suspend employees and also the right of the Company to discipline or discharge employee for just and reasonable cause provided that a claim by an employee, who has
4
acquired seniority, that he has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided.
4.02	The Union further recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its committments arid responsibilities. The location of the plants, the products to be manufactured, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing used, the right to decide on the nlimber of employees needed by the Company at any time, the right to use improved methods, machinery and equipment and jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery, tools and employees are solely and exclusively the responsibility of the Company. However, should the Union wish to question the reasonableness of a production rate set for an operation, the Union shall have the right to investigate or have its time study personnel enter the plant and study the operation in question, If the Union is of the opinion that the Company has set an unreasonable production rate, the question of the reasonableness of the production rate may be referred in writing by the Union to a Board of Arbitration as provided in Article 8 within a reasonable period of time, but in any event riot later than three (3) months after the Company has set the production rate, unless the rate has been affected by the conditions or requirements beyond the employee's control.
4.03	The Company has the right to make, alter, publish and enforce reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by its employees, Such rules and regulations may be reviewed by the Company, and the Union shall be advised in writing prior to their implementation,
The reproduction of the Company's rules and regulations i n the back of this booklet is for convenience only and it shall not be construed or implied that they form part of this Collective Agreement.
5
4.04 It is agreed that none of the rights set forth in this Article will be exercised in a manner inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement and further that all classifications will be in accordance with Schedule "A" attached.
ARTICLE 5	- SHOP STEWARDS
5.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint a maxirruim of eight (8) shop stewards, one of which will be designated as the Chief Shop Steward and one as the Alternate Chief Shop Steward.
The Union will endeavour to recruit Shop Stewards from as many areas or departments where possible in an attempt to maintain a full complement of Stewards as permitted by this Article,
Only one steward from a given department, excluding the Chief Shop Steward, shall be allowed to leave his job to attend to any Union business pertaining to this Collective Agreement,
5.02	The names of the stewards, from time to time selected, shall be given to the Company in writing and the Company shall not be required to recognize any such steward until it has been so notified.
5.03	Stewards shall be permitted to leave their jobs by their Foreman for the purpose of investigating complaints and processing grievances and shall not suffer any loss of pay for doing so. The Steward shall report to the Foreman upon the completion of h i s investigation find i f he goes into the department of another Foreman, he must first notify such Foreman of his presence.
Foremen shall permit employees to leave their work stations at the request of a shop steward who is conducting an investigation, or is processing a complaint or grievance,	The steward and the employee
6
shall be allowed to go to a place in the plant offering privacy and quietness to execute their business for a maximum of 15 minutes. This privilege shall not be abused by the stewards or the employees.
Because of the nature of the work performed and the job assignments related to the Truck Drivers and Service Personnel, every effort, will be made to conduct such investigations and processing within five (5) working days after the situation occurs.
To ensure compliance with Article 3.01 of this Agreement, stewards will be allowed the necessary time to sign up newly hired employees for Union membership during working hours.
5.04	In the event of lay-offs and recalls, the Shop Stewards shall be the last to be laid off and conversely, the first to be recalled by the Company irrespective of seniority standing, providing that the Shop Stewards are willing and able to perform the work available.
5.05	The Company shall inform the appropriate Union Steward of a new employee hired in his area of representation on the day that such new employee commences his employment and when the new employee's probationary period has been completed.
ARTICLE 6	- NO DISCRIMINATION
6.01	The Company and the Union agree that there will be no discrimination against any employee because of race, colour, creed, sex, national origin, age or Union membership. Any reference in this Agreement to "he" or "she" shall be considered to refer to an employee of either
7
sex.
ARTICLE 7	- DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES
7.01	The Company shall not take any disciplinary action without first warning the employee in the presence of a Shop Steward. In the event of a claim that an employee has been suspended or discharged unreasonably, the grievance shall be filed at Step Three (3) of the Grievance Procedure within three (3) working days. Warnings shall be given in writing and in the presence of a Shop Steward. The Company and the Union agree that disciplinary penalties shall not be imposed unreasonably or unjustly. In the event the circumstances justify immediate suspension or discharge of the employee, he/she shall he given a reasonable opportunity to consult, with his Shop Steward before leaving the Company's premises, unless it is necessary, because of the nature of the employee’s conduct, to require the employee’s immediate expulsion from the Company’s premises.
7.02	If it is determined or agreed at any Step of the Grievance Procedure or decided by a Board of Arbitration that any employee has been disciplined or discharged unjustly, the Company shall put him back on his job with no loss of seniority and shall pay the employee the amount he would have earned had he been working, or by any other arrangement as to compensation, including reinstatement without pay, which is just and equitable in the opinion of the parties or in the opinion of the Board of Arbitration if the matter is referred to such Board.
7.03	In the Service and Truck Driving Groups, the time limits in Article 7 and 8 w i 11 be adjusted if necessary to conform with the availability of the shop steward or his alternate, but in no event to exceed ten (10) working days from the date of the incident.
7.04	The Company shall provide the employee and the Union with a copy of any verbal or written warning affecting the employee. Any reply by the employee shall become part of his record. The record of any disciplinary action shall not be referred to or used against him at any time after twelve ( 12) months following such action.
8
Failure to grieve previous discipline, or to pursue any grievance to Arbitration, shall not be considered to be an admission that such discipline was justified. Any Grievance shall be subject to the time limits in Article 8,
7.05	Employees while absent from work because of illness or injury shall not be subject to any disciplinary procedure during the period of their disability for any alleged violations of the Company’s Rules or this Collective Agreement, subject to the limitations detailed in medical, documents supplied to the Company.
ARTICLE 8	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
8.01	"Grievances" as used in this Agreement will be any matter relating to wages, hours or working conditions, including question of, or compliance with the provisions of this Agreement and shall only relate to or concern any grievance which has arisen or arises subsequent to the date of this Agreement,
8.02	Time limits as defined in this Grievance Procedure shall include only normal working days and shall not include Saturdays, Sundays or Statutory Holidays and such time limits may be extended by mutual consent of the parties where application for such extension is made prior to the expiration of a time period as defined below.
8.03	The steward first (1st) selected by the employee will process the complaint or grievance to its conclusion and will be permitted the opportunity to discuss the problem with the employee prior to any meeting with the Foreperson or Supervisor.
Step One:	Any employee with seniority in the bargaining unit having a
problem with regard to his relationship with the Company under the terms of this Collective Agreement will meet and discuss any such
9
problem with his Foreperson or Supervisor in the presence of the shop steward of the employee's choice prior to initiating a formal grievance and within five (5) working days of the incident giving rise to the problem.
Step Two:	Should the Steward or the employee be dissatisfied with the
Foreperson or Supervisor's verbal disposition of such complaint or request, the Steward may, within two (2) working days refer such grievance in writing to the Foreperson or Supervisor who shall answer the grievance in writing within two (2) working days,
Step Three :	In the event the grievance is not settled in Step One or
Step Two, the Shop Steward may request a meeting with the Distribution or Manufacturing Managers, which is to be held within six (6) working days after the Union's receipt of the Foreperson or Supervisor’s answer in Step Two and both the Company and the Union may have outside representative's present. Such meeting time shall be mutually set by the parties, If the grievance is not settled at the meeting in Step Three then either party may refer it to Arbitration within ten (10) working days from the Union's receipt of the Company's answer in Step Three and in accordance with Articles 8,05 to 8,12 inclusive.
8.04	The Union and/or the Company shall have the right to file a grievance of a policy nature within ten (10) working days of the date of the incident coming to the attention of either party, A meeting between the appropriate representatives of the Company and the Union to discuss and attempt to resolve a policy grievance will be convened within five
(5) working days of the filing of said grievance, Should the parties fail to reach a settlement of a policy grievance at this time, then either party may refer it to Arbitration within ten (10) working days of this meeting and in accordance with Articles 8,05 to 8.12 inclusive,
8.05	A sole arbitrator may be selected by the parties within seven (7) working days of receipt of the notice of intent to arbitrate. In such
10
8.06
8.07
8.08
8.09
8.10
cases, the parties shall endeavour to agree on the selection of an arbitrator. In the event the parties are unable to agree within a further seven (7) working day period, then a Board of Arbitration shall, be constituted.
A Board of Arbitration shall be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Union and a third person to act as Chairman, chosen by the other two members of the Board,
The request by either party for a bard shall name the first party’s appointee to the Board. The recipient of the notice shall within seven (7) working days advise the other party of the name of its appointee to the Arbitration Board.
Should the person chosen by the Company arid the person chosen by the Union to act on the Board fail to agree on a third person within seven (7) working days of the appointment of the second of them, they shall apply to the Ontario Labour Management Arbitration Commission for a list, of Arbitrators. If the appointees fail to agree on a Chairman from this list, they shall apply to the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario for the appoinment of an impartial third member to act as Chairman.
The decisions of an Arbitrator or a Board of Arbitration, or a majority thereof, constituted in the above manner, shall be binding upon both parties and upon any employee affected by it. A majority decision shall be accepted as the decision of the Board and in the absence of a majority decision, the decision of the Chairman shall be accepted as the decision of the bard.
The Arbitrator or the bard of Arbitration shall not have the power to alter, amend, modify, or add to any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
11
8.11	Each of the parties to this Agreement shall bear the expenses of the Arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Chairman.
8.12	Time limits fixed in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 9	- NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS
9.01	It is agreed by the Union that there will be no strikes nor picketing
during the period that this Agreement continues in operation, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockouts during the period that this Agreement continues in operation,	The terms "strikes" and
"lockouts" as referred to in the paragraph shall mean "strikes" and "lockouts" as defined by the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
9.02	No action will be taken against any employee for refusing to cross a picket line set up in connection with a lawful strike.
ARTICLE 10 - WAGE RATES
10.01	During the term of this Agreement, the Company and the Union agree that all payment of wages shall be made in accordance with the wage rates set forth in Schedule "A" hereto, which is hereby mafe a part of this Agreement and by any Article of the Agreement pertaining to the payment of wages.
ARTICLE 11	- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
11.01	The following paragraphs and sections define the normal hours of work and shall. not be construed as a guarantee of daily, weekly, monthly or annual work.
12
11.02
11.03
11.04
The basic work week is made up of five (5) days, Monday through Friday and the basic work day is eight (8) hours, broken only by the established paid break periods and unpaid lunch period.
The normal hours ol' work shall be as follows:
Day Shift	7:00 a.m. to 12:00 Nocn
12:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Afternoon Shift	3:30 p.m. to	7:30 p.m.
8:00 p.m. to 12:00 Midnight
The Company may schedule two (2) maintenance personnel to perform preventative maintenance during the period of 12:00 Noon to 12:45 p.m. This scheduling shall be rotated and not consecutive and not meant to exclude emergency or repair work.
Plant shift work when required shall be on a two (2) week rotation basis for employees required to perform such shift work. The day shift unpaid lunch period shall be thirty (30) minutes between the hours of 12:00 Noon and 12:45 p.m. with the evening shift unpaid lunch period being thirty (30) minutes from 7:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.
The paid break periods shall be of fifteen (15) minutes duration away from work at or about the mid-point of each half shift including a paid ten (10) minute break period prior to the commencement of any overtime period scheduled in excess of one hour.
In the event that a three (3) shift work schedule is to be implemented, the normal work week for such a three (3) shift schedule shall be five (5) days Monday thru’ Friday (inclusive) and the normal work day shall be eight hours, broken only by the established paid break periods.
Day Shift Afternoon Shift Night Shift
7:00 a.m 3:00 p.m 11:00 p.m
to 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m,
13
The three (3) shift work schedule when required shall be worked on a two week rotation basis, that is (i.e. - two (2) weeks day shift, two (2)weeks afternoon shift and two (2) weeks night shift).
The paid twenty (20) minute lunch period shall be at or about the midpoint of each shift. Paid ten (10) minute breaks shall be at the midpoint of each half shift.
11.05	Any operations of the Company which require continuous twenty-four (24) hours operation and yet may not require five (5) days of continuous operation per week to meet production requirements, shall apply the following conditions of work:
Day Shift	7:00 a.m.	to 3:00 p.m.
Afternoon Shift	3:00 p.m,	to	11:00 p.m,
Night Shift	:	11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m,
During the three (3) shift operations, each employee shall be entitled to a thirty (30) minute lunch period at or about the mid-point of each shift away from his work station but the operation demands that one or more of the employees be working at my given time.
A rest period of fifteen (15) minutes of paid time will be given to each employee at or about the mid-point of each half shift and such rest period will be granted away from the work station as long as the operation remains attended by one or more personnel at my given time,
Employees may be required to work one or more shifts at their straight time hourly rate of pay on regular operations as scheduled by the Company in order to complete their normal work week, beo-ause operations and shift schedules have to be cancelled or suspended due to mechanical breakdown or completion of production requirements.
The Company will make every reasonable effort to provide alternative
14
work during the scheduled shift or during the week that such canceJ lation or suspension of shift operations and schedules are in effect.
11.06	The normal hours of work for employees in the Bargaining Unit who are required to travel for the Company to perform their duties shall be as fol lows:
Forty (40) hours per week worked between the hours of 10:00 p.m. Sunday and 12:00 Midnight Friday and the normal work day shall be eight (8) hours per day broken only by the established paid break periods and unpaid lunch periods. The unpaid lunch periods for personnel covered by this Article shall be of thirty (30) minutes duration at approximately mid-point in each normal shift.
Paid fifteen (15) minute break periods for personnel covered by this Article will be at approximately mid-point in each half shift including a paid ten (10) minute break period prior to the commencement of any overtime period scheduled in excess of1 one (1)hour, Paid fifteen (15) minute break periods will be at approximately mid-point of each four (4) hours of overtime. After twelve (12) hours of work, a second lunch period of thirty (30) minutes duration will be deducted from the total hours. After sixteen (16) hours of work, a third lunch period of thirty (30) minutes duration will be deducted from the total hours,
11.07	Overtime for non-trucking and non-service personnel shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the straight time hourly rate for the first four (4) hours worked in excess of the normal shift hours and double time for all subsequent hours on a daily basis.
Overtime for truck drivers, truck drivers' helpers and service personnel will be 'paid for at the rate of time and one-half their straight time hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of the normal shift hours on a daily basis.
15
All work performed on Saturday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half' the straight time hourly rate plus any premiums that may lie applicable for the first four (4) hours of such Saturday work and double the straight time hourly rate plus any applicable premiums for work in excess of four (4) hours on Saturday.
All work performed on Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of double the straight time hourly rate plus any premiums that are applicable.
The Company agrees to give notice of overtime as far in advance as is practical. Overtime shall be first offered to employees regularly doing the ,jcbby seniority. All overtime shall be on a voluntary basis and no employee shall be penalized for exercising this right.
fin "Overtime Notice" shall be posted on the Plant Bulletin Boards on a bi-weekly basis which must be signed by employees who wish to indicate thai; they will be available for overtime work during the work period defined on the notice. This volunteer list will be used by the Company to allocate overtime work in the appropriate departments to employees who have signified themselves available on the "Overtime Notice” by seniority.
Employees who commit themselves on the "Overtime Notice" shall be entitled to preference for overtime work before any employee who has not declared his/her availability regardless of seniority.
In the event that insufficient employees pledge their availability on the "Overtime Notice", the Company may solicit additional volunteers to work the overti.me during the period specified on the "Overtime Notice" without further regard to seniority.
Failure to sign the "Overtime Notice" shall not disqualify or penalize any employee from the solicitation for, or opportunity to perform any future overtime work .
16
Any employee who fails to work the normal work week as specified in Article 11 may be ineligible for any overtime scheduled or offered during that pay period and the next successive pay period.
11.08	Truck Drivers, truck drivers' helpers and service personnel shall receive their regular shift, pay of eight (8) hours per day when they are prevented from performing their duties by adverse weather conditions only when they are stranded away from home during a scheduled run, Service personnel shall receive four (4) hours pay when storm stranded at home and prevented from performing their duties, to compensate for the re-arrangement of their work schedules.
11.09	Route assignments for long distance truck drivers will be in accordance with any schedule established and agreed to between the Company and the Union.
11.10	In the event of second/third shift cancellations, or changes in the schedules of such shifts, the Company agrees to give the employees involved, notice of such cancellations or changes as far in advance as possible.
There shall be a mandatory minimum of eight (8) consecutive hours time off between scheduled, rescheduled shifts or shift changes. In the event an employee would be unable to complete his shift immediately prior to a rescheduling or shift change because of the mandatory eight (8) hours minimum rest, requirement, the Company may send him home in order to meet the starting time of his next shift. Any employee who is sent home under these circumstances shall receive a reporting allowance in accordance with Article 18,03 of this Agreement.
The following Groups will be exempt from this Article:	truck drivers
servicemen, samples and field display workers and maintenance.
Qualified First Aid persons will be on duty during these adc.liti.ona shift operations.
17
ARTICLE
12.01
12.02
12.03
12.04
12	- ANNUAL VACATIONS
All employees as of June 30th will be eligible for the following vacation allowance and will be paid a percentage of their gross pay for all work performed up to June 30th:
Years of Service
Number of
Weeks
% of Gross Pay
0 - 1
1	-	3
3-5 5-8 8-10 10	-	15
Over 15
2
2
3
3
4
5
4%
4%
5%
6%
7%
9%
10%
The scheduling of vacation times for employees shall be the function of Management in keeping with the needs and dictates of the business. Employees normally will be given the choice as to the scheduling of time off for vacation. When more employees from a department request vacation at the same time than can be allowed to be absent, seniority shall govern the granting of vacation only up to the last working day in April.
Should the Company decide on a summer shut down period, this period shall become the scheduled vacation period for all employees in the Bargaining' Unit except those that the Company may request to perform work during the vacation shut down in order to meet the demands of business. The actual date of the plant shut down shall be posted on the bulletin boards by March 31st of the current year.
Employees entitled to vacations in excess of two (2) weeks per year shall take the remainder at a time mutually satisfactory to the employee and the Company.
18
The vacation calendar listing the vacation periods granted shall remain posted on the Plant bulletin boards until the end of the current vacation year.
12.05	For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the vacation pay year shall be from anniversary to anniversary of the employee's individual seniority. Vacation pay shall be given to the employees not later than the third Friday of July in the year in which the vacation allowance is earned, together with an itemized statement defining the particulars of the vacation' pay earned and paid for in that year.
ARTICLE: 13	- PAID HOLIDAYS
13.01	All employees, including probationary employees who have worked twenty-five (25) days, shall receive payment for the following paid holidays and will include any additional statutory holidays proclaimed by legislation:
New Year's Day	Good Friday	Easter Monday
Victoria Day	Canada Day	Civic Holiday
Labour Day	Thanksgiving	Day	Christmas Day
Boxing Day
Plus two (2) days to be designated by the Company at the Christrnas/New Year's period, Payment shall be based on the employeeJs regular current hourly rate multiplied by the number of hours in a normal work day and shall be made subject to the following conditions:
(a) To be eligible for holiday pay, an employee must work on his/her regular work day immediately preceding and immediately following such holiday, provided that where an employee fails to so work on either day due to illness certified to the satisfaction of the Company, death in the immediate family, jury duty, approved leave of absence or lay-off not exceeding ten (10) working days prior to the holiday, then, he/she shall not be deprived of holiday pay.
19
(b)
(c)
13.02
13.03
ARTICLE
14.01
In the event that one or more of the paid holidays occurs during an employee's vacation he shall be paid for the holiday(s) in addition to his Vacation Pay. The employee must stipulate prior to his vacation period if he wishes to take an extra day in lieu thereof.
If an employee i.s authorized to and performs work on any of the above named paid holidays, he shall receive payment at double time for the hours actually worked by him in addition to receiving his holiday pay.
Each of the holidays enumerated herein shall be observed on the day on which it falls unless otherwise declared by the Dominion of Canada or the Province of Ontario or unless otherwise mutually agreed to by both parties.
If a paid holiday enumerated herein falls on a weekend, it shall be observed on the following Monday, unless otherwise declared by the Dominion of Canada or the Province of Ontario or unless otherwise mutually agreed to by both parties.
14	- SENIORITY
The parties recognize that job opportunity and security should increase in proportion to length of service. It is therefore agreed, that in all such cases of vacancy, promotion, transfer, lay-off, recall from lay-off or termination other than discharge for just cause, senior employees shall be entitled to preference, Seniority shall mean the length of continuous employment with the Company as a regular full time employee in the bargaining unit from his/her last date of hire.
All employees hired prior to November 18th, 1984 have their seniority established and determined by their starting date and the employees who started on the same date will have equal seniority rights for all. intents and purposes.
20
Any new employees, hired subsequent to November 16th, 1984 will have their seniority established and determined by their clock number. The employee with the lower clock number will have seniority over any employee who was hired after November 16th, 1984 with a higher clock number. No persons hired after November 16th, 1984 shall be deemed to have the same seniority although they may have been hired on the same date.
The maintenance of the employee seniority lists shall, be the responsibility of the Company.
14.02	In recognition, however, of the responsibility of the Company for the efficient operation of the business, it is understood and agreed that in all such oases, the Company shall have the right to pass over any employee if it establishes that he does not have the ability or physical fitness to perform the work. The specified trial or training period may be utilized to establish the employee's ability or physical fitness, If a candidate is passed over without a trial or training period, the Chief Shop Steward shall be informed of the reasons the trial period was not extended and such reasons shall be subject to the grievance procedure if riot acceptable to the Union.
14.03	Charge Hands and Lead Hands shall be deemed to have the same seniority rights as the Union Stewards for lay-off and recall purposes only, providing that such Charge Hands and Lead Hands are willing and able to perform the work available.
14.04	An employee will be considered probationary for the first 320 hours or forty (40) days worked and will have no rights except for those outlined in Article 3.01 under this Collective Bargaining Agreement during that time and may be discharged at any time during that period without, recourse to this Agreement. After 320 hours or forty (40) days worked, the employee will gain seniority standing and his seniority shall elite back to the date on which his employment began,
21
14.05	Seniority shall be maintained and accumulate during:
a)	absence due to lay-off;
b)	compensable work related accident;
c)	certified sickness or accident for a period not to exceed 66
consecutive months;
d)	pregnancy J.eave of absence as allowed and defined in the Employment Standards Act;
e)	absence due to an authorized leave of absence for a period not to exceed the duration approved.
14.06	Seniority shall be lost and not reinstated for any of the following reasons:
a)	the employee terminates his employment for any reason; or
b)	the employee is discharged for any reason and is not reinstated in accordance with the Articles of this Agreement,; or
c)	the employee is laid off and fails to return to work within five days after he has been yo requested by means of registered mail from the Company to his last recorded address; or
d)	the employee has been on lay-off for a continuous period of eighteen (18) calendar months; or
e)	after six (6) months absence from the scope of the Collective Bargaining Agreement due to work being performed for the Company which is not covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
14.07	The Company shall maintain seniority Lists for the Bargaining Unit and such lists shall be posted on the bulletin boards for employee inspection. These lists shall be updated every three (3) months and a copy shall be provided to the Union.
14.08	Promotions to any classification involving the driving of a Company vehicle will be governed by seniority where the senior eligible employee applying, meets any and all standards as set by the Company carrying our fleet insurance, the Company bonding our truck driving
22
employees, and any licencing or qualification requirements as set by any government agency having , jurisdiction over the operation of such vehicles us the Company may utilize.
ARTICLE 15	- JOB POSTING
115.01	For the purposes of Job Posting procedures, all vacant positions in
classifications higher than Group 4 as shown in Schedule "A" must, be posted on the bulletin boards in accordance with Article 15.02.
In each individual case the senior applicant will be given the appointment in accordance with Article 15,02,
It is understood that all employees covered by this Agreement may apply for any position vacancy posted,
15.02	All vacancies created by new Glassifications and any to be filled in existing classifications shall be posted within five (5) working days of the occurrence of any such vacancy and will remain posted for a five (5) working day period. Any employee in the Bargaining Unit may make application for such vacancies within the five (5) working day posting period and the following conditions will apply :
a)	The successful applicant shall be named and transferred within the five (5) working day period immediately following the closing of the posting period.
b)	The Company shall provide the Chief Shop Steward with a copy of all applications and appointments at the time of vacancy.
c)	Vacancies created by lay-offs, sickness, accident, leave of absence or vacations shall not be posted.
23
d)	I n filling the vacancy, the parties shall be subject to the obligations and entitled to the rights set forth in Article 15.
e)	Nothing herein shall prevent the Company from hiring persons from outside the bargaining unit when no eligible employee applies for a posted vacancy.
f)	The Company may fill a vacancy on a temporary basis for up to twenty (20) working days until such time as the job posting procedure is completed.
15.03	When an employee has been awarded and has accepted a posting to a new job classification in accordance with Schedule "A", the new wage rate w i 11 be paid to the employee retroactively to the commencement of the successful trial or training period. The trial or training period shall be ten (10) working days for one (1) classification group change or less, twenty (20) working days for two (2) class ification group changes and thirty (30) working days for three (3) classification group changes. On completion of the trial or training period the Company shall decide whether the employee is suitable for the new classification. If the employee is not suitable then he shall return to his previous job classification. Where the Company's Foreman or other Supervisory personnel have not had an adequate opportunity to personally evaluate the employee the Company my, by mutual agreement with the Union, extend the evaluation period for a further period of ten (10) working days.
After the completion of the job posting procedure, the position vacated by a successful applicant or employee transfer request shall be posted immediately upon the employee's acceptance into the new position. A review of the vacated position will take place between two (2) Shop Stewards and Management of the Company if the vacated position is not to be posted.
24
15.04	An employee may be considered ineligible for the appointment if he has bid for and filled another position in the previous six (6) months.
15.05	An employee making an application for a vacancy under the provisions of this Article, shall on the selection of a successful applicant, be notified of the appointment.
15.06	Temporary Job Postings :
During the period May 1st to August 31st, or other period negotiated depending on need hereinafter called the annual "peak production pericd" when the Company will experience increased production requirements.
By virtue of these increased production requirements, a number of temporary vacancies will arise during the peak production period, and will he filled as follows :
1.	As soon as possible and in my event no later than May 1st, the Company and the Union shall meet and discuss the identity and the number of temporary vacancies likely to arise during the peak period.
2.	All temporary vacancies arising during the peak production period shall be posted and remain posted for a period of three (3) working days, The posting shall specify the classification, department, wage rate and likely duration of the job.
3.	Each vacancy shall be awarded to the senior qualified applicant.
4.	An applicant who is awarded a vacancy and who accepts the job shall receive the wage rate payable for the job immediately upon commencing the job.
5.	The provisions of this Article shall apply to the filling of any vacancy directly or indirectly generated as a result of an applicant being awarded and accepting a temporary position.
25
6.	An applicant who is awarded and accepts a temporary position shall be returned to his previous job and rate upon the termination of the temporary position or upon the return to the job of a previous incumbent in the job and in any event, no later than August 31st.
7.	No employee holding a permanent job shall be removed, therefrom by reason of a shortage of work until such time as all employees holding temporary vacancies in the classifications, pursuant to this Article have been returned to their previous .job.
8.	This Article 15,06 does not disqualify or nullify the regular Job Posting provisions of the Collective Agreement, but acts as a procedure for filling vacancies created by peak production requirements.
9.	Any persons applying for and receiving positions under the terms of this Article 15.06 will not, be disqualified from applying for any fulltime job postings.
10.	Any dispute concerning the interpretation, application or administration of the provisions of Article 15.06 shall be dealt with in accordance with the Grievance and Arbitration provisions of this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 16	- TRANSFERS
16.01 Temporary Transfers:
When an employee is temporarily transferred from his regular job in the bargaining unit to another job in the bargaining unit, his rate of pay will be determined as follows :
a)	When an employee is temporarily transferred to any job in the bargaining unit,, he shall receive the rate for the job or his own regular rate, whichever is the greater.
26
b)	Any employee temporarily transferred will be returned to their regular job ut their regular rate of pay upon the completion of their temporary assignment.
c)	Any position filled on a temporary basis under this Article will not be protected from lay-off when the employee is subject to lay-off as a result of his seniority standing.
16.02 Standard Transfers:
a)	An employee who is transferred as a result of a successful application for a job vacancy, shall receive the rate for the job for which he applies; or
b)	Any employee who requests and receives a transfer to a job in a lower wage group classification, shall receive the lower rate of pay.
ARTICLE 17	- LAY-OFF & RECALL PROCEDURE
117.01	In the event of lay-offs for lack of work, the following procedures
will be observed.
a) Students, then probationary employees shall be terminated before regular fulltime employees are effected; then
b) Lay offs will be in the inverse order of seniority, that is, the employee with the least, plant wide seniority shall be the first to be laid off.
c)	In the event that an employee(s) hired on the same date as one (1) or more employees prior to November 15th, 1984 is involved in a lay-off or recall, such lay-off or recall shall be in conformity with their individual sequential position on the seniority listing as of August 17, 1988.
27
d)	When production requirements are reduced because of a lack of work, the
normal hours of work as prescribed in Articles 11.01 - 11.02 -	11.03 -
11.04	- 11.05 or 11,06 of this Agreement shall not be altered, modified or reduced for employees required to perform work for the Company while operations in the plant continue.
e)	In the event of unanticipated shortage of materials or major equipment failure, the Company may lay-off employees for a temporary period nut to exceed two (2) working days only once during a six (6) calendar month period without regards to the lay-off and recall provisions of this Agreement and only after consultation with the Union.
17.02	In the event of impending lay-off due to lack of work, all employees to be laid off shall be given forty-eight (48) hours advance notice, or in lieu thereof sixteen (16) hours pay. The Shop Stewards in the plant shall be given ut least seventy-two (72) hours advance notice of pending lay-offs.
17.03	When it is necessary to recall employees to the work force, the following procedure will be used 1
1.	Recalls from lay off will be by seniority, that is, the senior employee on lay off shall be recalled first and said employee should have the ability and physical fitness to perform the work within a trial or training period of ten (10) working days.
2.	The employee so selected for recall shall be contacted by registered letter or via Courier Mai as outlined below with a request to return to work. A verbal request to return to work may be utilized to attempt to have the employees return quickly to the work force but in no case will an employee be considered as terminated where he answers negatively to a verbal recall or fails to give a definite answer to a verbal recall.
28
3.	When an employee is given notice of his/her recall to active employment either by registered mail, or via Courier to his/her address which was last recorded with the Company, the employee must return to work on that date or within five (5) working days from the date cf the mailing of the registered letter, or the delivery of notice via courier mail, whichever is the later date.
Failure to properly respond to the foregoing requirements, the employment of an employee may be terminated unless he/she can provide and substantiate a bonafide reason for not doing so to the satisfaction of the Company,
17,04	Because of the nature of the work involved and the skills required in the following classifications:
Maintenance Millwright (licensed) - Electrician (licensed)
Vehicle Mechanic ( licensed)	-	Vinyl Transfer Line
Servicemen and Service Helpers	-	Long Distance Truck Drivers
Moulder & Tenoner Set Up and Operate
Utility/Spare - (up to a maximum of the ten (10) most senior employees in this classification by plant-wide seniority).
The employees in the foregoing classifications who would normally he laid off because of their lesser seniority and in accordance with the procedures established in Article 17,01, said employees shall be protected from lay-off when it is necessary that, the functions of their regular duties must be continued and that employees with greater plantwide seniority may be laid off.
Should an operation containing any of the classifications defined above be suspended during a lay-off and in which employees currently protected are working, it shall be deemed as cause for such employees who have lesser plant-wide seniority in the protected positions to be laid off than those employed in non - protected jobs, and conversely,
29
those with greater plant-wide seniority will be entitled to be accommodated in non-protected positions,
Upon the resumption cf any temporarily suspended operations causfjd by a lay-off, employees whose regular jobs are within the class!ficat.ions sheltered under Article 17.04 may be recalled without regard to plantwide seniority (but in conformity with the order in which they were laid off from their regular jobs, e.g. "the protected classifications") to enable an expeditious return to normal operations as soon as possible.
In the event a Department or group classification is permanently discontinued for any reason, employees affected by the cessation shall be accommodated by means of a transfer by the Company into a group classification and their current rate of pay will be maintained for a period of three (3) calendar months. After three (3) months in the new group classification, their rate of pay will be adjusted accordingly.
17.05 Contrary to the provisions of Articles 14.03 and 17.04, Charge Hand and Lead Hand positions shall only be preserved when their respective department is protected from a lay-off situation and in the event they do not have the required plant wide seniority to be retained, they shall be laid off as their department jobs lose the shelter of Articles
14.03	and 17.04.
ARTICLE 18	- WAGES
18.01	Bereavement Leave :
a) An employee shall receive up to three (3) days bereavement leave with pay whenever there is a death in his immediate family. The immediate family is : Spouse, common-law-spouse, children, common-law-children, father, mother, brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-.law, son-inlaw, daughter-in-law, grandparents (of either spouse) and grandoh ildren.
30
Common-Law being defined as co-habitant for twelve (12) consecutive months or greater.
To qualify for this payment, the employee must have taken up to three (3) days off during the five (5) consecutive day period immediately subsequent to the bereavement for the purpose of attending the funeral and matters pertaining to the bereavement.
b) An employee shall be granted one (1) day's bereavement leave with pay for the purpose of attending the funeral of a Brother-in-Law; Sister-in-Law.
In all cases, the one (1) working day or three (3) working days paid bereavement leave is granted to protect the employee from loss of income during his period of bereavement,
A multiple bereavement shall be treated as one (1) bereavement for the purpose of this Article.
18.02	Pay For Citizen Duty - The Company shall pay an employee who is required for jury service or subpoenaed as a court witness for each day of service, the difference between his straight time hourly rate for the numter of hours he normally works on his regular shift, and the payment he receives for court service. The employee will present proof of service and the amount of pay received.
18.03	Reporting Allowance - Any employee who reports to work at the commencement of the pre-lunch portion or post-lunch portion of his shift, and finds no work available shall receive four (4) hours pay for reporting for the pre-lunch portion of the shift and two (2) hours pay for the post lunch portion of the shift except where:
1.	When the employee is notified in advance not to report to work;
31
2.	When the lack of work is due to power failure, Acts of God, labour disputes or emergency situations.
In the event that i t is necessary to call an employee back to work in the case of an emergency, he shal.l be given a minimum of three (3) hours pay at his regular rate or time and one-half for the hours actual.ly worked, whichever is the greater.
18.04	Travel and Meal Allowances :
a)	All employees who are required to travel for the Company shall receive a meal allowance as shown in the following table if they are away from the Company’s premises in excess of eight (8) hours in one (1) working day, and will receive an additional meal allowance as per said table if they are away from the Company's premises in excess of fourteen (14) hours i n one (1) day :
After 8 hours	-	One Meal ............ $	11.00
After 14 hours	-	Additional Meal .... $	11.00
b)	In the event of the employee being away from the Company's premises for more than one (1) day, the Company shall pay the employee for his lodgings, and the following meal allowances Cor each day he is away :
Breakfast........... $	6.00
After 5 hours worked	-	Lunch ............... $	6.00
After 8 hours worked	-	Dinner............... $	11.00
Such allowances are not to exceed $	23.00 per day and to be
substantiated by cash register receipts,
18.05	Insurance and Welfare - The Company agrees to pay the full cost of the Employee Benefit Plans - Insurance, Major Medical Plan, O.H.I.P. and Dental Plan (The 1993 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees shall be effective November 16th, 1995 and shall then be automatically upgraded to provide
32
and maintain a two (2) year difference from the current year's O.D.A. Schedule of Fees as of January 1st of each successive year) and as set forth in Schedule "C" attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement,. Such coverage to take effect from the first of the full month fof Lowing the completion of twenty-five (2 5) days worked as defined in Article 3.01 of this Agreement.
All employees eligible for Insurance and Welfare benefits under this Collective Agreement will have the Premium costs of such benefits paid by the Company for a period of two (2) months following the end of the month in which the employee is laid-off.
18.06	Company Pension - All employees who have completed one (l)full year1 of service with the Company shall be entitled to participate in the Croup Registered Retirement Savings Plan established on the First day of February, 1988.
Effective November 16, 1993 the Company's contribution to the Plan will be twenty (20) cents per hour.
These contributions will be paid on all hours worked or paid, including overtime hours but shall not be computed on a premium basis.
Tire Company contribution to the Plan will be for employees on the active pay roll of the Company only and employees on Workers’ Compensation, Weekly Indemnity, Long Term Disability, or leave of absence wi11 be excluded.
The employee contribution to the Plan will be by pay roll deduction and must, match the Company contribution. Employees ma^ exceed the minimum to the limit allowed under Federal legislation.
33
The Plan will provide:
1.	immediate vesting of Company contributions;
2.	a spousal plan option for employee contributions;
3.	an annual statement of accounts and an annual receipt for income tax purposes.
The Company shall have the right to select the carrier of its choice in respect to this Plan, provided that in the event that any currier is changed, on equivalent level of benefits will be maintained,
ARTICLE 19	- FLANT SAFETY
19.01	Both parties hereto will cooperate to the fullest extent reasonably possible in the prevention of accidents and the promotion of the safety arid health of the employees of the Company. It is agreed that all employees will use the protective devices supplied by the Company. The Company shall provide Seventy-Five Dollars ($75.00) per year to each eligible employee towards the cost of safety footwear and this amount shall be increased to Eighty-Five Dollars ($85.00) per year effective January 1st, 1995. This subsidy shall not he accummulative from year to year.
New employees will be entitled to receive the safety footwear subsidy upon the successful completion of the probationary period and be actually working for the Company.
Students w i ll NOT be entitled to receive the safety footwear subsidy.
19.02	Whenever an employee sustains an injury during working hours and is unable to continue working the remainder of his shift, the Company agrees that it will compensate said employee, to the extent that said employee will be paid his regular rate of wages including any shift premium or overtime for all remaining time left in his shift.
34
19.03	The Company shall provide transportation from the plant on the day an employee sustains an industrial accident, arid pay for time spent by an employee during his regular shift hours for subsequent medical treatment required as a result of an industrial accident. It w i 11 be required that an employee who is certified medically able to perform work prior to or following such treatment will do so where such work does not interfere with the treatment times.
19.04	The Company will not be responsible for the payment of such time and transportation which would be compensated by the Workers’ Compensation Board.
The calculation of hourly rate shall be based on the employee’s straight time hourly rate.
19.05	In the event of employees sustaining injuries or becoming affected by occupational diseases during the course of their employment with Dashwood Industries Limited and become physically handicapped as a result thereof, every effort will be made by the Company to give the handicapped employee such suitable employment as is available.
ARTICLE 20 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
20.01	At the discretion of the Company an employee may be allowed up to a thirty (30) day leave of absence without pay for personal reasons if:
1.	Tb requests it from the Company in writing and sufficient notice is given to allow for rearrangement of work or substitution of a replacement and the leave is for good reason.
2.	A leave of absence will be extended far additional thirty (30) day periods if there is good reason and the Union and the Company mutually agree. The employee must request, the extension in writing before his leave of absence is up. The Union will be notified of all leaves under this Section.
35
20.02	Employees, maximum four (4) at any one time, who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend Union Conventions or Conferences shall be granted a leave of absence wihout pay for this purpose.
The Union will inform the Company of the n$unes of the delegates. The Company shall grant an employee a leave of absence of not more than two (2)	years to	work	in an	official capacity	for the local or
International Union. The employee must request the leave in writing and	the Union	must	approve	it. This leave	may be extended for
additional two (2) year periods. Not more than one employee w i 11 be granted such a leave at any one time and no continuation of benefits or other Company sponsored or paid programs will be given for leaves in excess of thirty (30) days duration under the terms of 20.02.
20.03	Any leave of absence will be in writing and no such leave will affect any employee's seniority rights when used for the purpose granted.
ARTICLE 21	- GENERAL
21.01	The Company agrees to provide the Union with at least four (4) Bulletin Boards for the purpose of posting Job Vacancies in accordance with Article 15 of this Agreement (to be posted by an appropriate member of Management) and to permit the Union to post notices of Union meetings and social affairs.
A Bulletin Board shall be situated at each of the following Plant locations :
Che on the wall between the South End Washrooms ;
One in the Receiving Area ;
Cte in the M.L.K. Lunchroom \ and One at the North End Employee Entrance.
36
21.02
21.03
21.04
21,05
Union notices wl.Ll be posted only by Officers and Shop Stewards of the Union and will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of this Agreement.
The Company's obligations and the employee's rights with respect to overtime, lay-offs and reporting allowances shall be conditional upon the employee maintaining a residential address and telephone, and upon having provided the Company in writing with his current address and telephone number. Evidence that the Company has not been able to contact, any employee at such telephone number shall be conclusive as to the employee's failure to perform this condition.
The Company will recognize a Union Negotiating Committee of five (5) employees who have acquired seniority under this Agreement, and this Committee shall consist of the current Chief Shop Steward and four (4) members elected by the employees in the Bargaining Unit plus one or two Business Representative's from the Union for the purpose of negotiating the renewal of this Agreement. The Company agrees to pay the regular wages for the employee members of the Committee for time spent in negotiating meetings with the Company during the normal hours of work up to but not including any Conciliation Meetings.
The Company and the Union desire every employee to be familiar with the provisions of this Agreement and his rights and duties under it. For this reason, both parties agree to share the cost equally in printing the Agreement and each employee will receive one (1) copy which is to be distributed by the Union.
If an authorized Union Representative, who is not employed by the Company, wishes to speak to a Shop Steward in the plant about a grievance or other official Union business, he shall make such request of a Coni{>any Representative who shall then call the Shop Steward for the purpose of having this meeting. These discussions shall he mutually arranged t>etween the Company and Union Representatives.
37
ARTICLE 22	- DURATION
22.01	This Agreement shall be binding and remain in effect from November
16th, 1994 to November 15th,	996 and sha 1 be renewed from year to
year thereafter unless either party gives to the other party, notice in writing within the period of ninety (90) days prior to the expiry of this Agreement that it, desires to amend or terminate the Agreement.
22.02	Where notice to amend the Agreement is given, the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in force until a new Agreement is signed or the right to strike or lockout occurs, whichever is first.
38
Executed at CENTRALIA, Ontario, this
FOR THE COMPANY
15th day of NOVEMBER, 1994
FOR THE UNION:
n»iA\%/ALC/)N A/cey
Adam Salvona
39
SCHEDULE "A1
CLASSIFICATIONS
Trades Group:
Group 1:
Group 2:
Group 3:
Maintenance Millwright (Licensed) Electrician (Licensed)
Vehicle Mechanic (Licensed)
Tractor Driver ( "A" License)
Serviceman "A" after 2 years as a service truck driver
Serviceman "B"	- Service Truck Driver
Vinyl Transfer Line	-	Set	Up	k	Operate
Maintenance Mechanic, Welder k Fitter Moulder & Tenoner	-	Set	Up	k	Operate
Pre-select Rip Saw	-	Set	Up	k	Operate
Four Corner Welder	-	Set	Up	k	Operate
Fingergroover	-	Set	Up	k	Operate
Sample & Field Display Worker
Tow Motor Driver Tool k Grinder Paint Line
Special Unit Assembler Edge Gluer Chop Saw Operator Truck Driver Mulling
Classic Door Assembler
Service Helper "A"
Double Mitre Push Back Double Mitre Cope Saw Shipper or Receiver Mulling
Truck Driver's Helper Classic Door Assembler Prime Casement Final Assembly Trimmer
(Licensed- Safety Course)
Set Up k Operate Set Up k Operate
Set Up k Operate
"D" License
2 years or more experience 2 years or more experience
more than 2 years a service helper
Set Up k Operate Set Up & Operate
Less than 2 years experience
Less than 2 years experience
Group 4:	All other workers after 12 months service (except Group 5)
Group 5:	Medically requested light duty (only considered with current
medical doctor's certificate). Employees in Group 5 are ineligible for all overtime.
Any new Classifications created by the introduction of new operations will have to be discussed and classified when they have been agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
40
SCHEDULE "B" HOURLY WAGE RATES
Effective Dates: Trades Group:
Group 1:
Group 2:
Group 3:
Group 4:
after 12 mos. service Group 5:
After 6 mas, service After Probation Start Rate:
Student Rate:
Nov. 16/94. $ 15.75 $ 13.90
$ 13.40 $ 13.00 $ 12.90
$ 11.65 $ 11.20 $ 10.45 $	9.45
$ 8.00
Nov. 16/95. $ 16.05 $ 14.20 $ 13.70 $ 13.30 $ 13.20
$ 11.95 $ 11.50 $ 10.75 $	9.75
$	8.30
May 16/96 $ 16.30 $ 14.45 $ 13.95 $ 13.55 $ 13.45
$ 12.20 $ 11.75 $ 11.00 $ 10.00 $	8.55
PREMIUMS
1.	Charge Hand Premium:	Shall be 55 cents per hour above the Group Rate of
the classification for all hours worked and said premium shall not he used in calculating the premium to be paid for overtime work.
41
2.	Lead Hand Premium:	Shall be 40 cents per hour above the Croup Rate of
the classification for all hours worked and said premium shall not be used in calculating the premium to be paid for overtime work.
3.	Shift Premium - All Employees
a)	Afternoon Shift:	-	($0.30) thirty cents per hour for all hours worked
between 3:30 p.m. and 12:00 Midnight when the shift begins on and after 3:30 pm.
b)	Night Shift:	-	($0.40) forty cents per hour for all hours worked
between 12:00 Midnight; and 7:00 a.m, when the shift begins on or after 12:00 Midnight.
Said shift premium shall not be used in calculating the premium to be paid for overtime work.
4.	Seniority Premium: - All employees will receive in addition to their Group
Rate:
Effective November 16th, 1993 :
$0.05 per hour after $0.10 per hour after $0.25 per hour after $0.30 per hour after $0,40 per hour after
three	(3) years'	seniority;
five	(5) years’	seniority;
ten	(10) years'	seniority;
fifteen	(15) years'	seniority;
twenty	(20) years'	seniority.
5.	Training Premium: -	The Service Truck Driver as described in Croups 1
and 2 shall be paid a training premium of forty (40) cents per hour for all hours spent training or instructing probationary employees.
6.	Hazard Premium:	- Effective November 16th, 1991 any employee who is
required to perform work on the repair, replacement, or installation etc. of a Dashwood Industries Product above the forty (40) foot level on the exterior of a building shall be paid the Premium of one Dollar ($1.00) per hour above his regular rate of pay for all hours worked in the performance of such duties.
42
SCHEDULE "C"
Dashwood Industries Limited
Description of Benefits Only -Coverage Governed by Plan Documents
Life Insurance:	......... Payable in the event of accident or sickness
at death from all causes	-	$30,000.00
Effective November 16, 1993	-	$35,000.00
Accidental Death: ......... (24 hour coverage) on or off the job
& Dismemberment	-	$30,000,00
Effective November 16, 1993	-	$35,000.00
Weekly Si.ck Pay Payable From:
1st day due to an accident or hospitalization as an in-patient;
8th day of absence resulting from illness.
Payable during:
Following eligibility, 15 weeks for each disability.
Benefits Payable:
2/3 of normal gross straight time pay to a maximum of U.I.C, current maximum
Long Term Disability:
Elimination period of 180 days. Payable for five (5) years or until normal retirement date, whichever comes first. Benefit of $750/month to be increased to $1000.00/month €or all employees effective November 16th, 1993.
O.H.I.P. Basic O.H.I.P. plan coverage for employee, spouse and unmarried children from birth to age 21 while still dependent.
Major medical Plan Co-Insurance:-Maximum:
No Deductible 100% of Balance $10,000.00 per person
43
EXTENDED HEALTH ELAN Eligible Expenses
Prescription Drugs Nursing Charges Ambulance Charges
Rental of durable therapuetic equipment Physiotherapy Charges Out-Patient Hospital &. Clinic Charges Blood; Plasma; Artificial Limbs & Eyes Casts; Splints; Trusses & Braces
Oxygen and Rental of Equipment for its administration
Vision Care:	$50,00 Cor frames to be increased to $70,00
effective November 16th, 1993 during any 24 month period. Unlimited Lenses - contact lenses if medically required (no sun glasses)
Semi-Private Hospital Room Rate
Coverage outside Canada for Doctors and Hospital, within 0, H, I, P, fee schedule Hearing Aids
CENTRALIA HOURLY DENTAL ELAN
Deductible:
After a $ 10/$20 deductible in each calendar year, the Plan will reimburse 100% of eligible routine treatment and 50% of eligible major restorative treatment,
Covered Expenses - Routine
a)	The following services (i) to (iv) inclusive, each limited to once in any 6 month period:
i)	oral examination;
ii)	prophylaxis	(the	cleaning and scaling of	teeth)
iii)	bite-wing x-rays
iv)	topical application of fluoride solutions
b)	Full mouth	series	of x-rays, provided	that a	period	of	at	least	24
consecutive months has elapsed since the last such series of x-rays was performed.
o)	Ex tract ions	and	single alveolectomy	at the	time	of	each	tooth
extraction.
44
d)	Amalgam, silicate, acrylic and composite restorations (fillings).
e)	Surgical extraction of impacted teeth.
f)	Surgical removal of tumors, cysts, neoplasms, plus the incision and dru i nage of an abscess.
g)	Diagnostic x-rays and laboratory procedures required in relation to dental surgery.
h)	General anaesthesia required in relation to dental surgery.
i)	The coat of medication and its administration when provided by injection in the dentist's office.
j)	Endodontic treatment - treatment of diseases of the dental pulp.
k.)	Periodontic treatment - treatment of the tissues and bones supporting
the teeth.
l)	Space maintainers for missing primary teeth and habit breaking appliances.
m)	Consultations required by the attending dentist.
n)	Relines, repairs and rebases to existing appliances (fixedbridgework, removable partial or complete dentures.
Covered Expenses - Major Restorative:
a)	Crowns and onlays, including gold and porcelain veneer fillings where other material is not suitable. Crowns provided for the sole purpose of periodontal splinting are not eligible.
b)	The creation of an appliance (fixed bridgework, removable partial or complete dentures) .
o)	The replacement of an existing appliance (fixed bridgework, removable
partial or complete denture) only under the following circumstances:
1.	If necessitated by the extraction of additional natural teethwhile insured under this policy.
2.	If the existing appliance is at least five years old and cannot be made serviceable.
45
3.	If the existing appliance is temporary and is replaced with a permanent bridge or denture and takes place within twelve months of when the temporary appliance was installed.
NOTE:	Replacement of a lost, mislaid or stolen appliance will not be an
eligible expense.
d)	Services of a licensed Denturist when practising within the scope of his license.
e)	Other necessary oral surgical procedures not specifically listed under Routine Treatment.
Exceptions and Limitations
1.	Services and supplies rendered for dietary planning for the control of dental caries, for plaque control and oral hygiene instructions.
2.	Orthodontic treatment which means dental treatment which has as its objective the correction of malocclusion of the teeth (Malocclusion-faulty coming together of1 teeth when biting).
3.	Broken appointments or the completion of claim forms required by the Company.
Treatment Plan Requirements :
Before beginning m y proposed dental work which your Dentist estimates will cost more than $300.00, you must first submit a Treatment Plan to the insurance company. Special forms are available from the Personnel Administrator.
A Treatment Plan is a plan including x-rays showing the patient's dental needs, a description of the proposed treatment and an estimate of the cost.
The filing of a Treatment Plan avoids any misunderstanding as to the extent of coverage and gives the patient and dentist an opportunity to review the proposed treatment and the extent of the plan coverage Ire fore any work is started.
46
MINUTES OF SETTLEMENT
between
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS 2ND JOINERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 3054
(hereinafter The "Union")
and
DASHWOOD INDUSTRIES LIMITED CENTRALIA, ONTARIO (hereinafterThe "Company")
WHEREAS the Union filed a grievance dated July 17, 1987 alleging that the Company violated the Collective Agreement in failing to pay statutory holiday pay to students.
AND WHEREAS the parties are desirous of resolving the aforementioned grievance.
AND WHEREAS in resolving the aforementioned grievance the parties are desirous of clarifying the application of the Collective Agreement to students with a view to minimizing disputes and harmonizing their relationship.
NOW THEREFORE the parties agree as follows:
1.	Students fall within the bargaining unit of employees for whom the
Union holds bargaining rights.
2,	The employment relationship between students and the Company i s
durational in nature and accordingly, application of the Collective Agreement is limited to the following Articles:
47
a)	Article	1
b)	Article	2
c)	Article	3
d)	Article	4
e)	Article	6
f)	Article	7
g)	Article	8
h)	Articel	9
i)	Article	10
j)	Article	11
k)	Article	16
l)	Article	17
m)	Article	18
n)	Article	19
o)	Article	21
p)	Schedule A
q)	Schedule B
(entirety)
2.01,	2.02, 2.03
3.02,	3.03 (entirety) (entirety) (entirety) (entirety) (entirety) (entirety) (entirety) (entirety) (entirety)
18.03, 18.04 (entirety)
21.02,	21.04
3.	It is agreed and understood that pursuant to Articles 4,	6 and 7,
students shall not have access to the grievance procedure in respect of discipline and discharge.
4.	It is agreed and understood that Article 16 shall only apply in those
instances where students are assigned work performed by eitployees in
classifications above Croup IV as set out in Schedule B.
5,	It is agreed and understood that Article 2.03 shall not be construed as
limiting the rights of students as provided for in these Minutes of Settlement.
DATED at London this tenth day of December, 1987
FOR THE UNION:	ADAM B. SALVONA
DANIEL ISAAC
FOR THE COMPANY:	S.J. GENNO
R.E. ZEEHUISEN
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Company agrees that it will post Lead Hand and Charge Hand positions effective immediately upon ratification of this Collective Agreement.
FOR THE COMPANY S.J. GENNO
FOR THE UNION: ADAM B. SALVONA
49
COMPANY RULES AND REGULATIONS
PREAMBLE
The purpose of the Company Rules is not to restrict the rights of any employee but to define and protect the rights of all, in order that the business can be operated in a safe, efficient, and consistent manner.
The Company reserves the right to revise the Rules and Regulations from time to time.
The Company undertakes to inform its employees of these changes as promptly as possible.
The Company reserves the right to involve the police should the circumstances require their assistance.
ALCOHOL AND DRUGS
In the interest of the safety of all Dashwood Industries employees, the following rules and regulations pertaining to the use of drugs or alcohol will be followed:
When it is determined by the Company that an employee may be under the influence of alcohol or drugs the following procedure will take place -
1st Offense ” The employee shall be sent home with pay and a verbal warning shall be documented in the presence of a Union Steward.
2nd Offense - The employee shall be sent home without pay and given a written warning in the presence of a Union Steward.
A meeting with the employee, a Union representative and the Plant Manager will take place within three (3) working days before the employee is allowed to return to work.
3rd Offense
Dismissal
50
A.	The following items are subject to immediate dismissal:
1,	Any	employee	found	responsible	for theft of Company property or
employee property,
2.	Any	employee	found	responsible	for wilful destruction of Company
property or employee property.
3,	Any employee found smoking in the Plant other than in the designated areas.
4.	Any employee found responsible for initiating physical violence against any other employee which results in physical harm to the employee concerned may be subject to immediate dismissal.
B.	Three warnings involving any of the following will be considered
grounds for dismissal:
1,	An employee who is absent from work, or fails to supply adequate documentation in support of absenteeism, due to illness or justifiable cause must, call personally to inform his/her Foreman/Forelady within one hour of their regular starting time. If no call is forthcoming, a verbal warning wi 1.1 be given for the first, violstion, The second violation will be followed by a written warning.
If the reason given by the employee is unacceptable to the Company, the same procedure of verbal and written warnings will be followed.
Not calling in when absent or not providing an acceptable reason for the absence is deemed to be the same offense. If the disapproved absenteeism occurs three (3) times within a twelve (12) month period, suspension for a short term or permanent discharge may be instigated on the third violation.
2,	Any employee who fails to directly report accordingly for two (2) consecutive working days may be considered as having terminated their employment,.
3,	If an employee is not at his/her work station when the start buzzer sounds at 7:00 a,m., he/she is considered as being late, If an employee is late without a valid reason, a verbal warning will be given in each and every case. If the lateness occurs three (3) times within a twelve (12) month period, suspension for a short term or permanent discharge: may be instigated on the third violation.
51
4.	All employees must observe the break and lunch period starting time warning buzzers and to be at their work stations when the final buzzer sounds.
Employees will not Leave their work stations at the end of their shift until the quitting buzzer sounds.
5.	All employees must accept the job assigned to them and must at all times obey the orders of their Foreman providing that such requests are not inconsistent, with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
6.	Washroom Breaks - Effective Monday, March 4, 1985, no more than four washroom breaks per employee will be permitted daily. No more than two washroom breaks between 7:00 a.m. and 12 p.m. will be permitted, Each washroom break will be no longer than five minutes.
If any employee cannot comply with this rule for a medical reason, a doctor's certificate will be required.
7.	Employees must adhere to all Safety Rules and Regulations which includes the wearing of safety shoes, safety glasses, protective gloves and aprons and hearing protection,
8.	All employees' first aid requirements must be reported to their Foreman for their own protection. It is the reponsibility of the Foreman to record any such requirements.
9.	Insubordination or the use of profane language will not be tolerated.
10.	Horseplay will not be tolerated as it is known to be directly responsible for serious accidents in factories,
11.	Except in the case of an emergency, telephone calls will not be made or received during working hours.
12.	No employee may leave the fenced-in premises without the permission of his/her supervisor during their paid eight (8) hour shift.
13.	No employee shall enter the office at any time without permission of their Foreman unless required to do so in the performance of their duti es.
52
14.	No employee shall consume beverages from the pop or coffee machines provided in the Plant, other than during the recognized break or lunch periods.
15.	Company tools or equipment shall not be removed from the premises of the Plant except with written permission from the Company.
16.	No employee is allowed in the Plant after normal working hours without the permission from the Plant, Manager.
17.	No employee is allowed a visitor in the Plant during working hours,
18.	No employee will purposely ignore Company quality standards or fail to perform his/her duties to the best of his/her ability.
19.	No employee will deliberately slow down or interfere w i t h normal Company production.
20.	It is necessary for all employees to wear a shirt while on the Company’s premises, not only for safety reasons but also in the interest of projecting the appropriate image to visitors.
If conditions necessitate establishing additional rules they will be published as soon as possible.
53