K 8/69  
3,000 wrherg  
### AGREEMENT  
### BETWEEN  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF MISSOURI  
### WESTERN MISSOURI AND  
### KANSAS LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL  
### AND THEIR AFFILIATED LOCAL UNIONS  
### IN THE STATE OF MISSOURI  
MAY 1, 2002  
### TO  
APRIL 30, 2006  
Article  
### Ii  
### HI  
<  
### VII  
### VIII  
### XII  
### XU]  
### INDEX  
Tite Page  
Preamble 1  
Definition and 1  
Hiring Procedure and Transfer Of Employees 3  
Uniort 4  
Working Conditions eugene 5  
Working Time and Overtime 6  
StewardS 7  
Rates Of 8  
Fringe Benefits, Training Fund and Vacation Benefits  
Western Missouri & Kansas Laborers’ District Council 9  
Missouri Construction Industry Advancement Fuind 10  
Enforcement of Fringe Benefit 11  
Grievance and Arbitration 12  
Work Assignment and Jurisdictional 13  
13  
Equal Employment 14  
Supplemental OUCS 15  
Substance Abuse Testing and 15  
15  
Effective 17  
Classification and Wage 17  
Substance Abuse Testing and Assistance 21  
### AGREEMENT  
   
1.1. This Agreement is entered into this 1st day of May, 2002 between the Associated General Contractors of Missouri (AGC)  
acting as bargaining representative for and on behalf of those of its members and others (hereinafter referred to as “Employer” or  
"Contractor”) who individually ratify and sign this Agreement or a facsimile thereof and the Western Missouri and Kansas Laborers’  
District Council and their affillated local unions in the State of Missouri, hereinafter called "Union". The Union and the Employer shali be  
the parties to this Agreement.  
1.2. It is understood that the AGC in no event shall be bound as principal or held liable in any manner for any breach of this  
contract by any of the Employers bound by this Agreement.  
1.3. It is further agreed and understood that the liabilities of the Employers signing this contract shail be and not joint.  
It is further understood that the Ilabilities of the Union signing this contract shall be several and not joint.  
1.4. Itis agreed that the Laborers International Union of North America, AFL-CIO, shall not be liable for violations of this  
Agreement by its local Unions, and that the Employers signing this Agreement shall not be liable for actions of the AGC.  
   
2.1. This Agreement shall cover all work, as defined in this Agreement throughout the entire Western counties as described  
herein, in the State of Missouri, except Jackson, Clay, Platte, Ray AND CASS Counties. The Union agrees that any Employer who is  
a party to this Agreement shail have the privilege, and shall operate under the existing labor agreements, or extensions thereof,  
which exist in Jackson, Clay, Platte, Ray AND CASS Counties, provided they accept and sign such agreements which are identified as  
follows:  
2.2. The word “work” when used in this Agreement means all private and public construction, federat and non-federai,  
performed in this state, with the exception of building construction, for the reason that building construction is separate and distinct  
from ali dasses of work covered by this Agreement, in respect to the terms and conditions of employment and the nature of the  
work as well as the dass and skill of the workmen required. Building construction is hereby defined to include building structures,  
induding modifications thereof or additions or repairs thereto, intended for use for shelter, protection, comfort, or convenience  
except as follows:  
A. There are structures not primarily designed for habitability, which may be building or heavy construction at the  
election of the Employer. Some examples of these structures are: water or sewage treatment facilities, raw  
water intake or outfail structures, pumping stations (sewage and storm).  
B. All work outside the limits of the building structure itseif, induding excavation for the building, may be  
building or heavy construction at the election of the Employer.  
### AGT-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT  
2.3. It is understood and agreed that this Agreement covers all laborer work used in construction of such projects as  
covered in the above Section, except such work as has already been allotted by the American Federation of Labor, to any particular  
craft.  
2.4. Itis understood and agreed that the unloading, handling, and carrying of concrete reinforcing bars to the pane! in  
which they are used is the work of the Laborers. It is further agreed that the placement of all pavement steel, induding center strip  
and accessories, wire fabric and expansion joints is the work of the Laborers.  
2.5. Itis understood and agreed that the work of cribbing, blocking, loading and unloading of all Contractors’ machinery,  
except the operation of the machine itself, is the work of the Laborers.  
2.6. The grading, setting and laying of street, slab and road forms is the work of the Laborers.  
2.7. The wrecking, stripping, removing, or dismantling of forms used for concrete construction is the work of the Laborers.  
2.8. The rubbing of concrete on bridges, culverts, over and under passes, subways, viaducts, retaining walls, etc., is  
“recognized as the work of the Laborers.  
2.9. Grade checker, dump man and ticket taker on stock piles, mastic kettleman, sand pot man, flagman, laser beam man,  
(except. where professional engineers are required), man hole builder, batter board man, scale man or woman on all construction  
jobs covered by this Agreement that are set up for the specific job, (including ail river work) is recognized as the work of the  
Laborers.  
2.10. Regardless of anything contained in the preceding Paragraphs 3 through 9, the Employer reserves the right to  
determine the extent to which work required by the Contractor will be assigned to employees covered by this Agreement  
2.11. In order to insure economical operation, the Employer may establish a crew whose function is to perform necessary  
work on the job site.  
A. If established, such crew will consist of the crafts in such proportions as are respective to the types of work to be  
performed.  
B. Members of said crew will work on ail work, regardless of jurisdiction, assigned to said crew.  
C, Said crew make up will only apply as it pertains to each individual job site, and nothing herein is intended to change  
the recognized craft jurisdiction of the crafts involved or the recognition thereof by the Employer.  
D. If labor equipment is to be operated on the jobsite there shall be sufficient laborers on the job scheduled to operate  
said equipment within the meaning of this Section 11.  
### AGT-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT  
   
3.1. The Employers, before the job begins and throughout its progress, agree as follows:  
A. Sefore starting work on any job of one million dollars ($1,000,000) or over either party may request a pre-job  
conference either on the job site or at some other mutually agreed upon place. On hazardous or toxic waste work, a pre-job  
conference shall be required and special conditions, if any, will be negotiated. The names of all sub-contractors shall be furnished  
to the Union at such conference if known by the contractor at that time; and in any event the names of such subcontractors shall  
be furnished to the Union before said subcontractors shail commence work. The Employer will then outline his initial and  
prospective manpower requirements in ail the various crafts and classifications, and the Union will inform the Employer of the  
probable number and qualifications of the men they will have available to meet the Employer's requirements. The Employer shail  
notify the Union having jurisdiction prior to commencing work on projects of less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) the Employer  
shall notify the Union having jurisdiction, prior to commencing work of manpower requirements and subcontractors who will be on  
the project.  
3.2. The Employer shall not employ workman either to start a new job or replace a workman to fill a new position on a job  
in progress without first calling the appropriate Union office or representative and requesting a referral of applicants for the job or  
jobs available. The Employer may, however, request workmen by name if such workmen are registered and the Union shall furnish  
such workmen to the Employer if they are available. In making referrals, priority may be given based upon length of service with  
the Employer, in the heavy construction industry or in the Western Missoun Area.  
3.3. If the Union fails for any reason to refer applicants within twenty-four (24) hours, the Employer may secure such  
workmen from any source available to him.  
3.4. The Employer shall have the right to accept or reject for good and just cause any job applicant and to select from  
among applicants these who are, in his estimation, the best qualified. In case of reduction of forces, the Employer shail have the  
right to select those best qualified, in his opinion, to be retained as long as there is no discrimination against workmen from the area  
of the local Union that has jurisdiction of the job.  
3.5. In any emergency situation, men may be secured on a temporary basis in any manner to perform any kind of work for  
as long as, but no longer than the emergency exists, but in no case more than twenty-four (24) hours.  
3.6. Without regard for any of the limitations imposed by the preceding Section 3.2 of this Article, the Employer may bring  
into any job from any place or Union jurisdiction up to fifty (50) percent of all the men employed on the job in such craft.  
Furthermore, the Union agrees to give due consideration to any Employer's request for additional men consistent with the purpose  
of this Section. The first man employed on the job shall be from the local Union having jurisdiction of the job, unless he has been a  
steady employee of the company for the past two years and in that case the Union having jurisdiction shall have the second man.  
Men furnished by the Employer shail be required to register with the focal union office prior to employment on the job site. There  
shall be no restriction on the transfer of men within the jurisdictional! area of the local Union.  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT  
3.7. The Union accepts full responsibility for lawful administration of the hiring hall procedure herein set forth, induding the  
non-discriminatory and lawful referral of employees to the Employers and the. Union shall indemnify and save the Employers  
harmless from any daims, suits, judgments, and administrative hearings, ruling and decisions and from any other form of liability as  
a result of hiring employees under the provisions of the hiring hall herein set forth.  
   
4.1. It is understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that as a condition of continued employment, all  
persons who are hereafter employed by the Employer in the unit which is the subject of this Agreement shall become members of  
the Union not later than the eighth (8th) day following the beginning of their employment or the execution date of this Agreement,  
whichever is the later: that the continued employment by the Employer in said unit of persons who are already members in good  
standing of the Union shall be conditioned upon those persons continuing their payment of the periodic dues to the Union; and that  
the continued employment of persons who were in the employ of the Employer prior to the date of this Agreement and who are not  
now members of the Union, shail be conditioned upon those persons becoming members of the Union not later than the eighth  
(8th) day following the execution date of this Agreement. The failure of any person to become a member of the Union at such  
required times shall obligate the Employer, upon written notice from the Union to such effect and to the further effect that Union  
_membership was available to such person on the same terms and conditions generally available to other members, to forthwith  
discharge such person. Further, the failure of any person to maintain his Union membership in good standing as required herein  
shail, upon written notice to the Employer by the Union to such effect, obligate the Employer to discharge such person.  
4.2. The Union agrees to indemnify the Employer and hoid the Employer harmless from any final determination of liability  
to any employee by reason of the discharge of such employee, if such discharge was caused and effected by a request by the  
Unions as provided for in the preceding paragraph of this Agreement. At a written request from the Union for an individual  
employee's date of starting of employment, the Employer agrees to give in writing to the Union the employee's starting date. The  
Union shall not be obligated to indemnify the Employer for any injuries or costs Incurred which may be the result of erroneous  
information provided by the Employer, nor shall it be required to pay the costs of defending claims which are ultimately found to be  
without merit or justification.  
4.3. The Employer shall not justify any discrimination against an employee for non-membership in the Union (a) if he has  
reasonable grounds for believing that such membership was not available to the employee on the same terms and conditions  
generally applicable to other members or (b) if he has reasonable grounds for believing that membership was denied or terminated  
for reasons other than the failure of the employee to tender the periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of  
acquiring or retaining membership.  
4.4, The Employer shall be at liberty to employ whomever he sees fit to employ, and shall at all times be the sole judge as  
to the work to be performed, and shall furthermore determine whether such performance is, or is not, satisfactory.  
4.5. The Employer shail employ and use all means of safety for protection of the workmen in compliance with all safety  
regulations and in accordance with the law.  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT  
   
5.1. The number of men to be employed is at the sole discretion of the Employer.  
5.2. Any workman may be shifted by the Employer from one dassification of work to another classification of work, or from  
one piece of equipment to another piece of equipment, provided the workman is capable of performing the other work and is paid  
the rate of wages for the classification which provides the higher wage rate. Should any unforeseen emergency arise at a time  
when workmen are not available at the job site, work may be performed by any employee until workmen are secured.  
5.3. The Employer shall furnish clean fresh drinking water and ice daily to all crews on ail jabs during the summer months  
and when conditions warrant same, and shalt furnish sanitary paper drinking cups and water within one hour after normai starting  
time.  
5.4. The Employer shail provide or arrange for access to suitable toilet facilities on all jobs.  
5.5. The Employer shall furnish workmen rubber boots or five-buckle overshoes, rubber coats and rain hats or hooded rain  
.jackets and pants when necessary and when working conditions warrant same, and shail furnish all necessary tools required on the  
job site. The Employer shail furnish flagman jackets to all flagmen and employees shall be held responsible for the retum of such  
jackets.  
5.6. The Employer shall furnish an adequate suitable place property heated when necessary in which workmen may change  
their clothes and eat lunch if to furnish such facility is practical with regard to the nature and type of the job or project concemed.  
5.7. The Union agrees not to interfere in any manner with the Employer's right to use any type or quantity of machinery,  
vehicles, tools, or appliances or method of operation. It is agreed that the Employer may secure materials or equipment from any  
market or source except prison made.  
5.8. The authorized representatives of the Union may visit jobs during working hours, so long as they do not hinder or  
interfere with the progress of the work.  
5.9. All workmen employed under this Agreement shall be classified in accordance with the Schedule of Wages of this  
Agreement. Any question relative to the classification will be settled by the Employer and the Union representative, or as hereinafter  
provided.  
5.10. On the day of an injury resulting from a job site accident, the employee shall not suffer any loss for time spent  
receiving medical attention if unable to return to work. However, if requested, the employee will furnish a doctor's certificate to the  
effect that he was unable to return to work.  
5.11. It shall not be a violation of this Agreement nor grounds for discipline, discharge or replacement of employees for  
persons covered hereunder to refuse to cross a lawful, primary picket llne and perform work in any instance where the picket line  
has been recognized by a Union signatory to this Agreement.  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT -5-  
5.12. The Employers shail provide Workmen's Compensation insurance against injury or occupational disease and  
unemployment compensation protection for employees whether or not required to.do.so by Missouri state law.  
5.13. Workmen shall be at their place of work at starting time and shall remain there until quitting time unless otherwise  
directed by the Employer. It is further agreed, however, that on marine work employees will travel to and from their place of work,  
one way on their own time, and one way on company time.  
5.14. Whenever a laborer is working on a location where no other men are working and if that laborer’s safety requires that  
another person be within call, an additional employee shall work within call.  
5.15. If a crew of five (5) or more laborers are working in the same location on a project, one laborer selected by the  
Contractor shall be designated as a leadman or working foreman. When two or more crews of five (5) laborers or more are working  
on any one project but in locations where one leadman or working foreman cannot properly perform his duties, there shall be an  
additional leadman or working foreman designated for such crews. A leadman or working foreman must have at least one year’s  
experience as a laborer or crew leader or working foreman in the area covered by this Agreement. The designation of any additional  
leadman or working foreman regardless of the number of men employed on the project is at the discretion of the Contractor. The  
Contractor may at any time change the designation of any leadman or working foreman and said leadman or working foreman is  
“subject to discharge in the same manner as any other employee. A leadman or working foreman shail work at the discretion of the  
Contractor.  
5.16. An employee shall not be permitted to use his personal vehicle for company use at any time on the job site.  
5.17. Laborers shall operate salamanders. At times when the regular crew is not working on the project the minimum pay  
for operating the salamander shail be for two hours.  
   
6.1. The requiar work week shall consist of not more than forty (40) hours work, Monday through Saturday, and all work  
performed over and above ten (10) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week shall be paid at the rate of time and one half. New  
employees covered by this agreement who have begun work for the Employer during the middle of a work week shail be paid either  
at the normal rate or pay or at the premium rate of pay as determined by the rate of pay being received by the rest of the crew  
which have been employed the entire pay period on that project.  
6.2. A thirty (30) minute lunch break, without pay, between the third and sixth hour will be allowed each employee, and  
the employee will be paid time and one-half for working through his lunch period and will be allowed a short time to eat.  
6.3. (A) A work day is to begin between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. at the option of the Employer except when inclement  
weather or other conditions beyond the reasonable control of the Employer prevent work, in which event, the starting time may be  
delayed, but not later than 12:00 noon.  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT  
(B) The Employer may establish other working hours on the project, in which event employees starting at those other  
times, shail be paid their regular rates of pay, plus fifty cents (50¢) per hour premium for hours worked, except on those projects  
which routinely work two (2) or three (3) shifts, only the graveyard (3rd) shift will receive the premium. Projects must be scheduled  
to work nine (9) consecutive shifts to be considered routinely working shifts.  
(C) Gn work which the owner specifies unusual working hours beyond contro! of the contractor the premium rate will not  
apply.  
6.4. (A) Workmen shall report each working day except when the Employer has notified them not to do so. If employees  
are not notified before leaving the job that there will be no work on the following day or if the employees are not notified two (2)  
hours before the start of the shift at the telephone number furnished to the Employer that there will be no work, the employees  
who report shall receive one (1) hours time for reporting, and, if put to work, the employee shall be paid for actual hours worked. If  
employees are required to remain on the job after one hour reporting time, they will be considered working. The employee will keep  
the Employer advised at all times of his correct address and telephone number.  
(B) Overtime shall be computed at one-half hour intervals.  
6.5. Holidays. New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas are  
holidays. If a holiday falls on Sunday, it shall be observed on the following Monday. If a holiday falls on Saturday, it shall be  
observed on the preceding Friday. No work shall be performed on Labor Day except in case of jeopardy to work under construction.  
This rule is applied to protect Labor Day. When a holiday falls during the normal work week, Monday through Friday, it shail be  
counted as eight (8) hours toward a forty (40) hour week; however no reimbursement for this eight (8) hours is to be paid to the  
workman unless worked.  
6.6. Workmen shall be paid for hours actually worked.  
6.7. Workmen shall receive time and one-haif for all work performed on Sundays and Holidays. There shall be no  
pyramiding of overtime.  
6.8. If workmen start to work any time after noon, not having worked any time before noon, they shall receive a minimum  
of four (4) hours’ pay unless prevented from working by indement weather or conditions beyond the control of the Employer.  
6.9. Show-up time hours and guaranteed hours will be regarded as hours worked for the purpose of computing the  
forty-hour work week.  
   
7.1. The Union may appoint a workman to act as steward on each job. The Union will notify the Employer's  
superintendent of the appointment. The steward shall be subject to the same terms of employment as any other employee on the  
job and shall not be discriminated against by reason of the fact he is serving as steward.  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT  
7.2. The steward shall be a working employee who shall, in addition to his regular work, be permitted to perform during  
working hours such of his duties as steward including the adjustment of grievances as cannot be performed at other times. The  
Union agrees that such duties shall be performed as expeditiously as possible.  
7.3. If overtime work is required, the steward shail be one of the workmen who shail perform the work, if he so desires,  
provided he is capable of performing the work. The Employer agrees in the event of reduction of the work force, that the employee  
appointed as steward remain on the job as long as there is work of his craft which he is capable of performing.  
7.4. A steward may be transferred or discharged for cause, but such cause shall be discussed with the business  
representative of the Union before transferring or discharging said steward.  
7.5. The steward shall not stop the Employer’s work for any reason, and shall not leave the project during normal working  
hours unless no telephone is available on the job site, or unless authorized to do so by the Employer. The steward shall not call the  
business representative conceming unsafe conditions or other matters relating to the administration of the contract, unless and until  
he has first discussed the problems concerned with management's representative on the project.  
7.6. Should any employee require medical attention or meet with an accident while at work, the company shall see to it  
- that the employee receive immediate medical attention.  
   
8.1. Hourly rates of wages for each classification of labor are set forth in Artide XX Classification and Wage Rates, and the  
rates of wages shown in that Schedule shall apply to all work and to every workman covered by this Agreement.  
8.2. The Union agrees that no demand for any increase in any wage rate above that specified In the Schedule of Wage  
Rates will be made on any job.  
8.3. Wages, in cash or collectible check, shall be paid to workmen weekly at the end of the shift not later than four (4)  
work days after the pay period, unless approval of payrolls by governmenta! agencies prevent such payment at that time. Check  
Stubs shall show all overtime hours and straight time hours, total wages and itemized deductions. Failure on the part of the  
Employer to comply with this provision shall entitle the employee to one (1) day's pay for every twenty-four (24) hours from the  
date of the required pay day provided the delay is occasioned by the willful negligence of the Employer or his agents.  
Any Employer who fails to have sufficient funds in the bank to meet all pay checks issued to employees shail be liable also  
for the cost of collecting the amount due. Any Employer who repeatedly defaults may be deprived of the right to pay by check.  
8.4. (A) Rates of wages and fringe benefits as set forth in this Agreement or the prevailing wage (if applicable) in effect on  
the date an Employer signatory to this agreement bids on a project covered thereby shall remain in effect for the duration of the  
### work on said project, BUT NOT TO EXCEED A PERIOD OF MORE TWENTY-FOUR (24) MONTHS FROM THE BID DATE. ON THE  
### SECOND ANNIVERSARY OF THE PROJECT, IF THE PROJECT CONTINUES, THE WAGES AND FRINGES WILL BE INCREASED BY AN  
### AMOUNT EQUAL TO THE EFFECTIVE WAGE AND FRINGE INCREASES IN THE FIRST YEAR AFTER THE DATE OF THE ORIGINAL  
### AGT-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT  
### BID LETTING. THE SAME PROCEDURE SHALL APPLY ON THE THIRD ANNIVERSARY OF THE DATE OF THE BID LETTING AND ON  
### ALL SUBSEQUENT ANNIVERSARIES.  
(B) Work on projects bid under any previous AGC of Missouri agreements or addenda shall continue for the period of two  
(2) years at the old wage and fringe benefit rates. On the second anniversary of the project, if the project continues, the wages  
and fringes will be increased by an amount equal to the effective wage and fringe Increases in the first year after the date of the  
original bid letting. The same procedure shall apply on the third anniversary of the date of the bid letting and on all subsequent  
anniversaries.  
8.5. If a workman quits of his own accord, he shall wait for his pay until the next regular pay day.  
An employee who is discharged or laid off shail be paid in full without undue delay or the penalty provisions of Section 3 of  
this Article will apply.  
8.6. In the event of multiple layoffs, arrangements may be made between the Employer and the local Union for pay checks  
to be mailed to employees within forty-eight (48) hours. The employees shall furnish the current mailing address to the Employer  
before leaving the job.  
   
9.1. (A) Health and Welfare. In addition to the wages set out in the schedule attached to this Agreement, each Employer  
agrees to pay fer all work under this Agreement performed by employees within the territorial jurisdiction of the Western Missouri  
and Kansas Laborers’ District Council THREE DOLLARS ($3.00) per hour for each payroll hour covered by this Agreement into the  
Construction Laborers’ Welfare Fund.  
* If at the beginning of the second OR third OR FOURTH years of this Agreement the trustees of the Health and Welfare  
Fund certify that additional contributions are necessary in order to maintain the level of benefits in effect on May 1, 2002, the  
amount certified by the trustees will be added to the Health and Welfare contribution. REQUIRED INCREASES SHALL BE  
### DEDUCTED FROM THE WAGE RATE ON OLD WORK OLD PAY PROJECTS. IN THE EVENT THAT THE PREDETERMINED RATE IS  
### LESS THAN THAT SET FORTH IN SECTION 20.2, THE UNION MAY DIRECT IN WRITING AS TO WHAT FUNDS CONTRIBUTIONS  
### ARE TO BE MADE BY THE EMPLOYER.  
9.2. (A) Pension. In addition to the wages set out in the schedule attached to this Agreement, each Employer agrees to  
pay for all work performed by skilled and general laborers under this Agreement in the territorial jurisdiction of the Western Missouri  
and Kansas District Council TWO DOLLARS AND THIRTY cents ($2.30) per hour for each payroll hour covered by this  
Agreement into the Construction Industry Laborers’ Pension Fund.  
### (B) REQUIRED INCREASES SHALL BE DEDUCTED FROM THE WAGE RATE ON OLD WORK OLD PAY PROJECTS. IN THE  
### EVENT THAT THE PREDETERMINED RATE IS LESS THAN THAT SET FORTH IN SECTION 20.2, THE UNION MAY DIRECT IN  
### WRITING AS TO WHAT FUNDS CONTRIBUTIONS ARE TO BE MADE BY THE EMPLOYER.  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT -9-  
9.3. Training and Apprentice. (A) Each Employer agrees to pay in addition to the wages set out in the schedule attached  
to this Agreement for all work performed within the territorial jurisdiction of the Western Missouri and Kansas Laborers’ District  
covered by this Agreement THIRTY-FOUR cents (34¢) per hour for each payroll hour, paid into the Construction Industry  
Laborers Training Fund established by an Agreement and Declaration of Trust by and between the parties to this Agreement.  
### ANDREW, ATCHISON, BUCHANAN, CALDWELL, CLINTON, DAVIESS, DEKALB, GENTRY, GRUNDY, HARRISON, HOLT,  
### LIVINGSTON, MERCER, NODAWAY AND WORTH WHICH SHALL BE PAID INTO THE GREATER KANSAS CITY LABORERS’ TRAINING  
### FUND ESTABLISHED BY AN AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST BY AND BETWEEN THE UNION AND THE BUILDERS’  
### . ASSOCIATION.  
(B) The trustees shall have ail the powers necessary to accomplish the purposes of the trust which is to provide a method  
or methods of training for employment in classifications of employment generally contemplated by this Agreement.  
(C) The Employers who accept and sign this Agreement also agree that the Trust Agreement creating the Western Missouri  
Laborers’ District Council Laborers-Employers Cooperation and Education Trust (LECET) is a part of this Agreement and agree to be  
bound by its terms and conditions and will become parties to participate in the trust.  
9.4. (A) Vacation, Employers agree to pay in addition to wages one dollar and fifteen cents ($1.15) per hour for each  
payroll hour worked by skilled or general laborers covered by this Agreement Area W-I and ninety cents ($.90) per hour for each  
payroll hour worked by skilled or general laborers covered by this Agreement Area W-II into the jointly administered Construction  
Industry Laborers’ Vacation Fund for each employee's vacation savings. Payments into the Vacation Fund shall be mailed to the  
Administrator at the Construction Industry Laborers’ Welfare and Pension Fund offices, Jefferson City, Missouri.  
1. ~The Employer shail deduct ail withholdings from the full amount of wages, including per hour vacation payment each  
pay check. However, the full vacation amount deducted shall be paid into the Vacation Fund each month since the  
withholding will be deducted from the wages.  
2. An employee may draw his vacation savings out once a year ON OR ABOUT DECEMBER 12 of the following year.  
The employee shail notify the Construction Industry Laborers' Welfare and Pension Fund office two (2) weeks in  
advance of the date he wishes to draw his vacation savings money due him.  
3. Vacation savings shall accumulate annually from November 1 to October 31.  
9.5. Enforcement of Sections 9.1 through 9.4 of this Artide shall be governed by and in accordance with Article XI of this  
### Agreement.  
   
10.1. (A) Employers signatory to this Agreement agree to pay for all work performed under this Agreement ten cents (10¢)  
per hour for each hour paid to skilled or general laborers employees covered by this Agreement into the Missouri Construction  
Industry Advancement Fund.  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT -L0-  
10.2. Details of reporting, payment and administration of such contributions shall be governed by the terms of the Trust  
Agreement creating the foundation, except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement. All trustees of said trust shail be members of  
the Association appointed by the Board of Directors, and any disbursement therefrom shall be at the direction of the trustees, and at  
their direction only. The said Trust Agreement shail specifically provide that no funds shail be disbursed therefrom for the purposes  
of lobbying in support of anti-labor legislation and/or to subsidize Contractors by the payment of moneys to them or on their behalf  
in connection with work stoppages or strikes against such Contractors or be used to defray expenses arising from any labor dispute  
or controversy.  
10.3. Enforcement of Sections 10.1 and 10.2 of this Article shall be governed by and in accordance with Article XI of this  
### Agreement.  
   
11.1. Each Employer signatory to this Agreement agrees to accept and be bound by the terms and provisions of the  
Agreements and Declarations of Trust establishing the various funds set forth in Articles IX and X of this Agreement. Where  
provisions of the various trusts conflict with this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement will prevail.  
11.2. Payments shail be made to the funds on a monthly basis. Payments on all hours worked the preceding reporting  
period must be made to the funds’ office not later than twenty (20) days after the end of the month in which the work was  
performed, Should a payment be made later than twenty (20) days after the end of the month in which the work was performed,  
the Employers agree to add twenty percent (20%) to the amount due as fiquidated damages and not as a penalty.  
11.3. In the event payment is not made to the Welfare Fund within twenty (20) days the end of the month in  
which the work was performed, and because of such delinquency, claims for benefits are denied employees of such Employers who  
would have been eligible for benefits if the Employer had not been delinquent, such Employer agrees to reimburse such employees  
or survivors or their estates in an amount equal to that which would have been paid by certificate through the Welfare Fund office;  
provided, however, the foregoing shail not apply to a member of the Associated General Contractors of Missouri signatory to this  
Agreement unless such member has been notified prior to the occurrence of the event creating the claim for benefits by certified  
letter conceming the delinquency of payments due on behalf of such employee or employees by the Welfare Fund office and the  
delinquent member Employer does not comply with the request for payment within ten (10) days. A copy of such certified letter  
shall be furnished to the office of the Associated General Contractors of Missouri.  
11.4. If it becomes necessary for any fund to file suit against any Employer for delinquent payment or money due any  
fund, the Employer agrees to pay, in addition to the twenty percent (20%) liquidated damages mentioned above, all litigation costs,  
inctuding a reasonable attomey’s fee.  
11.5. The Employers also agree to permit representatives of the Funds' office to examine payrolls, social security reports  
and other records necessary to determine amounts due the Funds' office under this section of the Agreement provided that such  
examination of records shall not be made more frequently than once every three (3) calendar years.  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT “td  
11.6. The general Contractor shall be responsible for any delinquent wage or fringe benefit contributions of their  
subcontractors.  
   
12.1. Except as provided in Section 5 of this Artie, and in those specific instances only, the Union agrees that during the  
term of this Agreement neither they nor any of them will cause, authorize, or permit or take part in any strike, slowdown, sit-down,  
picketing or cessation of work, and the Employers agree that during the term of this Agreement they will not suspend work or lock  
out their employees.  
12.2. All grievances, disputes or daims (hereinafter called “grievance") except jurisdictional disputes which may arise with  
respect to wages, hours or conditions of employment or the enforcement or interpretation of any of the terms of this Agreement  
are to be promptly processed and settled in accordance with the provisions of this Article.  
Step One - The party raising the grievance is to first present it to the Union steward and then by the steward to the  
superintendent. If the dispute is not satisfactorily settled within one (1) working day at this level, it shall be referred to the second  
. step,  
Step Two - Any grievance not resalved at step one shall be reduced to writing. The Employer and the Union's business  
representative shall meet within two (2) days and seek to settle the grievance. If the grievance is not settled at such meeting, a  
written reply to the written grievance shall be given by the Contractor or his representative within three (3) working days thereafter.  
Step Three - Arbitration. In the event the dispute is not settled within seven (7) days at step two, either the Employer or  
the Union may refer the matter to arbitration at any time within ten (10) days after the step two meeting by mailing written notice  
of intention to arbitrate to the other party. If no written notice of intention to arbitrate is given within the time required, or if any of  
the preceding steps are not taken within the time and manner prescribed (uniess longer times are. mutually agreed upon), the  
grievance shall be conclusively presumed to be abandoned. The written notice shail name an arbitration representative; the other  
party shall immediately thereafter name an arbitration representative. The Employer and the Union arbitration representatives shall  
then seek to agree upon an impartial arbitrator.  
If within five (5) days after the notice of intention to arbitrate has been mailed, no impartial arbitrator has been agreed  
upon, the Union and the Employer representatives shail write to Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, Washington, D.C.,  
requesting a pane! of five (5) arbitrators. Upon receipt of the panel, the Union and the Employer arbitration representatives shall  
altemately strike names until the pane! has been reduced to one (1) person who shail then be requested to serve as impartial  
arbitrator; should he be unable to serve, a new pane! of five (5) shall be requested from FMCS.  
12.3. The impartial arbitrator shall be the chairman of the arbitration hearing and sole arbitrator of the dispute. The  
decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both the Employer and the Union. The expenses of conducting the  
arbitration hearing including the services of the impartial arbitrator are to be shared equally by the Employer and the Union. The  
Union and the Contractor will pay for their respective arbitration representatives.  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT “12+  
12.4. In cases where the arbitrator finds that an employee was discharged or disciplined without just cause, the arbitrator  
shall have the power to fashion such a remedy as may be fair and equitable, taking into consideration ail aspects of the case, and  
such remedy may include restoration to his former position with the Employer, restitution of lost wages, or both.  
12.5. If either the Employer or the Union, after any dispute has been finally decided by arbitration, refuses to abide by or  
comply with such settlement or final decision of arbitration, then and in the event of such occurrence, it shail not be a violation of  
the Agreement for the Union to call and engage in a strike in the event of the Employer's failure to comply with such final decision,  
or for the Employer to lock out the employees in the event of the Union's failure to comply with such final decision.  
12.6. Any compiaint or grievance will be barred if not presented within seven (7) days after such complaint or grievance  
became known to employee. Any decision on a grievance not appealed in writing from one step of the grievance procedure to the  
next, within seven (7) days after a decision is announced shall be considered as having been finally settled to the mutual  
satisfaction of ail parties concerned and not subject to further appeal.  
   
13.1. It is the desire and intention of all parties to minimize jurisdictional and work assignment disputes. It is, therefore,  
understood and agreed that the Company will endeavor to make employee work assignments conform to established craft or  
bargaining unit jurisdictional lines. It is likewise understood and agreed that the various Unions will endeavor to recognize, respect  
and abide by the traditional jurisdictional rights of each organization and seek to avoid daims for work assignments and jurisdiction  
which encroach upon the jurisdiction of other organizations.  
13.2. Work assignments made by the Employer shall be respected by ail Unions, and the craft to which the work is  
assigned shall continue to perform the work in question.  
13,3. In the event of a jurisdictional dispute, the parties shail request the Union or Unions involved to meet with  
representatives of the Union and Employer to the dispute. If a settlement is not reached at that meeting, the Union shall  
request that its International Union assign a representative who shall make arrangements to meet representatives of the other  
Intemational Union or Unions involved and representatives of the Employer to seek settlement of the dispute. The Employer may  
also request the International Unions involved to assign representatives to seek settlement of the dispute.  
13.4. The Union and the Employer agree that there shall be no strikes, lockouts, or interruption of the disputed work over  
jurisdictional disputes.  
   
14.1. The Employer agrees that whenever work covered by this Agreement for which wages and fringes are predetermined  
by the Davis-Bacon Act or similar state or city law is to be subcontracted, it shall be subcontracted only to Employers whose  
employees performing such work receive wages and fringe benefits collectively and other conditions of employment equal to or  
better than those contained in this Agreement.  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT -13-  
14.2. No such subcontractor shall be required to enter into any agreement as a condition of such subcontract, requiring or  
related to Union recognition, Union security or bargaining representation or which requires the adoption of or participation in any  
trust fund provisions.  
14.3, Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed to force or require any Employer to cease or refrain from doing  
business with any specific person or Employer or otherwise require the disruption of any existing business relationship with any  
other Employer or person.  
14.4. The terms and provisions of this Article have been negotiated and agreed upon by and between the parties for the  
purpose of providing covered employees with the maximum job security and steady employment warranted by the Employers’  
business and the provisions of applicable law, and for the additional purpose of establishing lawful protection against the possible  
diminution of the wage scales and working conditions provided for in this collective bargaining agreement  
14.5. The employer agrees that when work covered by this agreement is subcontracted, the subcontractor shall meet the  
following requirements:  
A. Insurance. The subcontractor shall possess a current certificate of insurance from an insurance company authorized to  
-write insurance by the Department of Insurance of Missouri.  
B. {icenses. Subcontractor shall possess a current occupational and all other applicable licenses if required.  
C. Good Standing. Subcontractor shall possess a certificate of corporate good standing from Missouri or other state of  
incorporation and/or information as to the form of corporate or business organization, including federal Employer Identification  
number and state unemployment insurance information.  
D. Payroll Taxes. The subcontractor shall submit to contractor, if requested, an affidavit of compliance with ail applicable  
state and federal withholding tax requirements.  
E. Compliance. Subcontractor shall submit to contractor, if requested, an affidavit signed by an officer of the company, or  
head of the business organization, stating that subcontractor is current (induding payments required during preceding sixty (60)  
days) on all fringe benefit payments or contributions and prevailing wage requirements on present and past projects.  
F. Affirmative Action. Subcontractor shall possess certificate of compliance from appropriate agency concerning that  
agency's affirmative action obligations, if applicable, and if reqularty provided.  
   
15.1, The Employers and the Union agree that they will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment  
because of age, sex, race, creed, religion, color, national origin, Vietnam era or other disabled veterans or qualified individuals with  
handicaps or disabilities. The Employer will take affirmative action to insure that applicants are employed, and that employees are  
treated during employment without regard to their race, creed, color, sex, national origin, age or disability. Such action shall  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT  
include, but shall not be limited to the following: employment upgrading, demotion, or transfer, recruitment or recruitment  
advertising; layoff or termination; rates or other forms of compensation; and selection for training.  
15.2. The Union agrees that it will not discriminate against any applicant for employment or referral because of race, creed,  
sex, national origin, age or being a Vietnam era or disabled veteran. The Union further agrees to refer applicants for employment  
without discrimination because of race, creed, color, sex, national origin, age, or being a Vietnam era or a disabled veteran as their  
tum comes up on the hiring list, or as otherwise specified by the collective bargaining agreement, if their qualifications meet those  
required by the Employer.  
   
16.1. Supplemental Dues. Supplemental Dues are included in the wages set out in Article XX of this Agreement. The  
Employer agrees to deduct SEVENTY cents (70¢) from each general and skilled laborer for each payroll hour. During the term of  
this Agreement and continuing thereafter and in accordance with the terms of an individual and voluntary written authorization for  
check-off of membership dues in form permitted by the provisions of Section 302(c) of the Labor Management Relations Act, as  
amended, the Employer shall deduct from the wages of all employees covered by this Agreement the proper amount per hour for  
each payroll hour as dues.  
16.2. Said sums shall be remitted to the Construction Industry Laborers’ Welfare office as supplemental dues and reporting  
of these sums shall be made in the same manner and on the same forms provided for the payments of fringe benefit programs  
required under this Agreement.  
16.3. This article shall be subject to the enforcement provisions of Article XI of this Agreement.  
   
17.1, The parties agree to be bound by the terms of the Associated General Contractors of Missouri Substance Abuse  
Testing and Assistance Program attached hereto and marked Exhibit "A".  
   
### 18.1. NEW APPLICANTS FOR MEMBERSHIP WHO CANNOT PROVIDE REASONABLE PROOF OF 4000 OR MORE HOURS OF  
### EMPLOYMENT AS A CONSTRUCTION CRAFT LABORER (OR, ALTERNATIVELY, CANNOT DEMONSTRATE EQUIVALENT SKILLS IN A  
### PLACEMENT EXAMINATION ADMINISTERED BY THE JOINT APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING COMMITTEE (JATC) SHALL,  
### WHENEVER POSSIBLE, ENTER THE APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM. ANY PERSON ENTERING BY FAILING TO MAINTAIN AND  
### COMPLETE HIS OR HER APPRENTICESHIP SHALL NOT BE EMPLOYED BY THE EMPLOYER AS A JOURNEY WORKER UNDER THIS  
### AGREEMENT. THE FAILURE OF ANY APPRENTICE TO MAINTAIN HIS OR HER APPRENTICESHIP STATUS SHALL OBLIGATE THE  
### EMPLOYER TO DISCHARGE SUCH PERSON UPON NOTICE FROM THE UNION.  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT  
### 18.2. THE APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING STANDARDS APPROVED BY THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF APPRENTICESHIP  
### AND TRAINING OR STATE APPRENTICESHIP COMMITTEE ARE HEREBY INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE AS PART OF THIS  
### AGREEMENT.  
### 18.3. THE APPRENTICE WAGE RATES:  
### HOURS OF CREDIT WAGE RATE  
### 0-800 60% OF JOURNEY WORKER  
801-1600 70% OF JOURNEY WORKER  
1601-2400 80% OF JOURNEY WORKER  
2401-3200 90% OF JOURNEY WORKER  
### OVER 3200 JOURNEY WORKER  
### 18.4. THE EMPLOYER MAY PAY A HIGHER RATE AT ITS OPTION. HOWEVER, THE APPRENTICE MUST MEET HIS OR HER  
### COMMITMENTS TO THE JOINT APPRENTICESHIP COMMITTEE REGARDLESS OF THE LEVEL BEING PAID.  
### 18.5. THE EMPLOYER SHALL PAY AN APPRENTICE THE FULL FRINGE BENEFIT PACKAGE AS DESCRIBED IN THIS  
### CONTRACT.  
### 18.6. ENTRY INTO THE APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM SHALL BE CONTROLLED BY THE JATC, WHICH SHALL EMPLOY  
### APPROPRIATE TESTING AND SCREENING PROCEDURES. AN APPRENTICE ADVANCES FROM ONE HOURS-OF-CREDIT AND WAGE-  
### RATE CATEGORY TO ANOTHER ONLY UPON DETERMINATION OF SATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE BY THE JATC, WHICH SHALL  
### HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO GRANT ACCELERATED CREDIT WHERE WARRANTED BY THE PERFORMANCE OF AN INDIVIDUAL  
### APPRENTICE.  
### 18.7. THE EMPLOYER SHALL PARTICIPATE IN THE APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM BY ACCEPTING APPRENTICES FOR  
### EMPLOYMENT UPON REFERRAL BY THE UNION.  
### 18.8. THE EMPLOYER, MAY EMPLOY ONE (1) APPRENTICE WHENEVER THREE (3) JOURNEYMEN (INCLUDING A  
### FOREMAN) ARE EMPLOYED WITHIN THE JURISDICTION OF THIS AGREEMENT AND A RATIO OF THREE TO ONE THEREAFTER.  
### ANY EMPLOYER WHO DOES NOT NORMALLY EMPLOY THREE (3) JOURNEYMEN MAY EMPLOY ONE (1) APPRENTICE FOR UP TO  
### 25% OF THE TOTAL JOURNEYMAN HOURS WORKED IN THE PREVIOUS YEAR.  
### 18.9, AN APPRENTICE SHOULD, WHENEVER POSSIBLE, BE ROTATED BY THE EMPLOYER THROUGH DIFFERENT TYPES  
### OF WORK SO AS TO BECOME TRAINED IN A VARIETY OF OPERATIONS AND WORK SKILLS. WHERE THE EMPLOYER IS UNABLE  
### TO PROVIDE AN APPRENTICE WITH EXPERIENCE IN THE FULL RANGE OF CRAFT SKILLS, THE JATC MAY REQUEST THE LOCAL  
### UNION TO REASSIGN THE APPRENTICE TO OTHER EMPLOYMENT IN ORDER TO PROVIDE THE EXPERIENCE. FOR SO LONG AS  
### THE EMPLOYER IS ABLE TO PROVIDE THE NECESSARY RANGE OF EMPLOYMENT EXPERIENCE, THE EMPLOYER MAY CHOOSE TO  
### RETAIN THE APPRENTICE FROM JOB TO JOB BUT SHALL NOTIFY THE LOCAL UNION AND THE JATC OF ALL REASSIGNMENTS.  
### 18.10, AN APPRENTICE SHALL NOT WORK ON THE JOBSITE UNLESS SUPERVISED BY A JOURNEY WORKER.  
### 18.11. AN APPRENTICE SHALL NOT BE PENALIZED FOR TAKING OFF FROM WORK TO ATTEND OFFSITE TRAINING  
### (THOUGH TIME OFF FOR TRAINING IS UNPAID).  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT -16-  
   
19.1. The provisions and rates of this Agreement shall be effective on May 1, 2002 and will remain in FULL force and effect  
until April 30, 2006, and thereafter from year to year unless written notice is sent by registered mail, given by one of the parties  
hereto, to the other party hereto, sixty (60) days in advance of May 1, 2002, of any succeeding year if said parties desire to amend  
or abrogate this Agreement. If either party gives notice of its desire to terminate this Agreement in the manner herein set out  
sixty (60) days prior to May 1, 2006, all obligations under this Agreement shall cease on May 1, 2006. If said Agreement is  
extended beyond May 1, 2006, it may be terminated on May 1, or any succeeding year in the same manner.  
19.2. This Agreement covers the entire understanding between the parties hereto. No oral or written rule, regulation, or  
understanding which is not mentioned or referred to herein will be of any force or effect upon any party hereto. Wherever this  
Agreement is in conflict with the customs, working rules, or wage scales of any of the locals of the International Union itself, then  
this Agreement shall supersede all such portions of said customs, working rules, or wage scales which are in conflict with this  
Agreement.  
19.3. In the event that any Article or Section of this contract is specifically held invalid or enforcement of or compliance  
-with which has been restrained, the parties affected thereby shall enter into collective bargaining negotiations no later than two (2)  
work weeks following the date of such invalidity on the request of either party for the purpose of arriving at the mutually satisfactory  
replacement for such Article or Section during the period of invalidity or restraint. If the parties do not agree on a mutually satis-  
factory replacement, either party shall be permitted all legal or economic recourse in support of its demands notwithstanding any  
provisions of this contract to the contrary.  
   
20.1. The fact that certain classifications and rates are established does not mean that the Employer must employ  
workmen for any one or all such classifications, or to man any particular piece of plant or vehicle that happens to be on the work,  
unless, in the opinion of the Employer, there is need for such a workman.  
### 20.2. FRINGE BENEFITS: EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2002 THROUGH APRIL 30, 2003  
W-I $2.30 Pension W-II $2.30 Pension  
3.00 Health & Welfare 3.00 Health & Welfare  
1.15 Vacation .90 Vacation  
.34 Training 34 Training  
** Supplemental Dues ** Supplemental Dues  
### 10 MCIAF 10 MCIAF  
$6.89 Hour $6.64 Hour  
Supplemental dues shal] be deducted from the wage rate as set out in Article16.1.  
### WAGE RATES: EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2002 THROUGH APRIL 30, 2003  
### COUNTIES GENERAL LABORER SKILLED LABORER  
### AREA W-}  
$18.49/hour $18.84/hour  
Buchanan and Lafayette  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT  
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2003: Add $.95 to Wage OR FRINGES,  
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2004: Add $.95 to Wage OR FRINGES.  
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2005: Add $.95 to Wage OR FRINGES.  
### AREA W-II  
Andrew, Atchison, Barry, Barton, Bates, Benton, Caldwell, Camden, Carroll,  
Cedar, Christian, Clinton, Dade, Dallas, Daviess, DeKalb, Douglas, Gentry,  
Greene, Grundy, Harrison, Henry, Hickory, Holt, Jasper, Johnson, Laclede,  
Lawrence, Livingston, McDonald, Mercer, Morgan, Newton, Nodaway, Ozark,  
Pettis, Polk, St. Clair, Saline, Stone, Taney, Vernon, Webster, Worth & Wright $17.09/hour $17.64/hour  
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2003: Add $.90 to Wage OR FRINGES.  
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2004: Add $.90 to Wage OR FRINGES.  
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2005: Add $.90 to Wage OR FRINGES.  
A part or all of the increases set out as wage increases may be used as set out in Artide IX.  
20.3. Wages to be paid for “private development” work shail be $4.00 per hour less than those rates set out in Section 2 of  
this Artide. “Private Development” work shall not include any work that is covered by Davis-Bacon or other similar state or local  
wage determinations. Work which is not so covered shall be deemed to be “private development” work if (A) it involves street and  
parking lot grading, excavation or paving work which pertains to (1) either new or existing residential areas with structures of four  
stories or less, whether occupied temporarily or permanently or (2) commercial or industrial work with a total project cost of three  
_ million seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($3,750,000) or less; or (B) it involves work on a railroad or railway work on public or  
private property; or it involves water or sewer (storm or sanitary) that relates to (A) or (B).  
20.4. Employees while working In the diassification of dump man, ticket taker on stock piles or flagmen shall be paid $2.00*  
per hour less than the wage rate for general laborer; fringe payment to remain the same.  
* Where more than one of these reductions could be applicable to given work, only the single higher reduction shail  
apply.  
20.5. There shall be a tunnel crew leader or working foremen on all tunne! work requiring two (2) or more laborers.  
20.6. Compressed air and caisson worker's wages and conditions will be negotiated before the job starts.  
20.7. The Union agrees that if, with respect to work defined in Article I and to be performed within the jurisdiction as set  
forth in Article II of this Agreement, it makes any agreement with any other Employer containing any terms or conditions which, In  
the opinion of the Employer, are more favorable to such other Employer than those provided herein, any or all of such terms or  
conditions, at the option of the Employer, shall automatically become a part of this Agreement.  
20.8. In areas where open shop work is predominant or non-union contractors are known to be bidding on a project, at the  
request of either party the Association and the agree to hold a pre-bid conference with all crafts prior to bidding for the purpose of  
considering wages and working conditions, it being understood that all crafts will be treated on an equal basis.  
20.9. On hazardous and toxic waste work, a Class A worker shail receive seventy-five cents (75¢) above the general laborer  
rate; a Class B worker shall receive fifty cents (50¢) above said rate; a Class C worker shall receive twenty-five cents (25¢) above  
said rate; and a Class D worker shail receive the general laborer scale.  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT  
### WAGE CLASSIFICATIONS  
20.11. General Laborer. Carpenter Tenders, Salamander Tenders, Loading Trucks under Bins, Hoppers and Conveyors,  
Track Men and all other General Laborers.  
Air Tool Operator, Cement Handler ~ Bulk or Sack, Dump Man on Earth Fill, Georgie Buggie Man, Material Batch Hopper  
Man, Material Mixer Man (except on manholes), Coffer Dams, Riprap Pavers -- Rock, Block or Brick, Signal Man, Scaffoids over Ten  
Feet not Self-supported from ground up, Skipman on Concrete Paving, Wire Mesh Setters on Concrete Paving, All Work in connec-  
tion with sewer, water, gas, gasoline, oil drainage pipe, conduit pipe, tile and duct lines and ail other pipe lines, Power Tool  
Operator, All work in connection with hydraulic or General Dredging Operations, Form Setter Helpers, Puddlers (paving only), Straw  
Blower Nozzieman.  
Asphalt Plant Platform Man, Chuck Tender, Crusher Feeder, Men handling creosote ties or creosote materials, Men working  
with and handling epoxy material or materials (where special protection is required), Rubbing concrete, topper of standing trees,  
Batter Board Man on Pipe and Ditch work, Feeder Man on Wood Pulverizers, Board and Willow mat weavers and Cable tiers on river  
work, Deck Hands, Pile Dike and Revetment work, All Laborers working on underground tunnels less than 25 feet where compressed  
air is not used, Abutment and Pier Hole Men working six (6) feet or more below ground, Men working in Coffer Dams for bridge  
“piers and footing in the river.  
Ditchliners, Pressure groutmen, Calker and Lead Man, Chain or concrete saw, Cliff Scalers working from scaffolds, Bosuns'  
chairs or platforms on dams or power plants over ten (10) feet above ground, manhole builder helpers, mortar men on brick or  
block manholes, toxic and hazardous waste work.  
20.12. Skilled Laborer. Head Pipe Layer on sewer work, Laser Beam Man, Jackson or any other similar tamp, Cutting torch  
man, Form Setters, Liners and Stringline Men on concrete paving, curb, gutters, hot mastic kettleman, hot tar applicator, Sand  
blasting and gunite Nozzlemen, Air Tool operator in tunnels, screed man on asphalt machine, asphait raker, MILL SETTER, Barco  
Tamper, Churn drills, Air Track Drills and ail similar drills, Vibrator Man, Stringline man for electronic grade control, Manhole Builders  
-- Brick or block, Dynamite and Powder men, Welder, Leadman or a working foreman, tunnel leadman or working foreman, Grade  
checker, concrete saw over 5 H.P., concrete specialist.  
20.13. Miners. Men working in tunnels or shafts (not air) of twenty-five feet or more in length or depth will be paid fifty  
cents (50¢) per hour above the General Laborer rate.  
20.14. Cemeteries. This Agreement shail also cover cemeteries where cemeteries are moved to other locations and  
graves are dug up and reburied at other cemeteries or at a new location. Laborers working at this type of work shall receive General  
Laborer rate of pay.  
20.15. Compressed Air Work. Compressed air and caisson workers' wages and conditions will be negotiated before a job  
starts.  
20.16. On any project meeting the qualifications of 5.15 of this Agreement, at least one leadman or working foreman shall  
receive $1.00 more per hour than the skilled laborer rate.  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT ld  
In witness thereof, the parties hereto have set their hands this 15 day of Ma , 2002.  
### THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS OF MISSOURI, INC.  
     
Quane A. Kraft  
President  
### AGC-MO/WESTERN MO & KS LABORERS AGREEMENT  
### WESTERN MISSOURI & KANSAS LABORERS’  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL AND ITS AFFILIATED LOCAL  
### UNIONS IN THE STATE OF MISSOURI  
Stacey L ss  
Business Manager  
«  
Bil Townsend, Business Manager  
Construction & General Laborers’ Local Union No. 319  
    
   
    
     
Mh hy  
SIA, if  
. Plerce, Jr., Business Manager  
Construction and Genera! Laborers’ Local Union No. 579  
   
   
    
i Milkinson, President & Business Manager  
nstruction Laborers’ Local Union No. 663  
     
Pat Stevens, Business Manager  
Construction and General Laborers’ Local Union No. 676  
   
This substance abuse policy and program has been adopted and implemented pursuant to negotiations between the  
Associated General Contractors of Missouri (Association), and the Western Missouri and Kansas Laborers’ District Council and their  
Affiliated Local Unions in the State of Missouri. The term "Contractor" or “Company” when used herein refers to construction  
industry contractors who are signatory to the collective bargaining agreement negotiated between the Association and the Union.  
Should any dispute arise with respect to the application or implementation of this policy and program between workers employed  
pursuant to said labor agreements, such disputes shall be submitted to the grievance and arbitration provisions of said collective  
bargaining agreement.  
A.1. Purposes.  
A. To establish and maintain a safe, healthy working environment for afl employees;  
B. to ensure the reputation of the Contractors, their products and services, and their employees within the community  
and industry at large;  
C. to reduce substance abuse-related accidental injuries to persons or property;  
D. to reduce substance abuse-related absenteeism and tardiness, and improve productivity;  
E. to provide rehabilitation assistance for employees who seek help; and  
F. to comply with any law or regulation requiring such programs.  
A.2. Policy Statement.  
The use, sale, purchase, possession, transfer, manufacture, or being under the influence of alcohol, illegal drugs or any  
controlled substance (hereinafter "aicohol and drugs"), other than the proper use of lawfully prescribed medication, on Company  
time, induding break time and lunch time, or while on the Company's premises or worksites, is strictly prohibited.  
A.3. Testing.  
In order to combat problems associated with substance abuse and to assist in the enforcement of this policy, a Contractor  
may require employees and applicants to undergo a drug and alcohol test in the following circumstances:  
| A. Pre-employment Tests. Prior to employment, a Contractor may require an applicant or referral to undergo a drug  
and alcohol test. Also, a Contractor may require a new employee to undergo such a test within seven (7) calendar days of  
conditional initial employment.  
B. Cause Testing. A Contractor may require testing for drugs or alcoho! where there is cause to believe that: (1) the  
employee has reported for work or is working under the influence of alcohol or drugs; (2) the employee has possessed alcohol or  
drugs or related paraphemaiia in violation of the policy; (3) the employee has caused a work-related accident; (4) the employee was  
operating or helping to operate machinery, equipment, or vehicles Involved in a work-related accident; or (5) the employee has  
engaged in conduct, actions, or inactions where it appears based upon observation that the mental or physical capacities of the  
employee have been impaired.  
C. Promotion. A Contractor may require testing for drugs or alcohol of employees before, or following, a conditional offer  
of promotion.  
### AGC-MO SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM -21-  
D. Government Required Physical Examinations and Testing. A Contractor may conduct any physical examination or  
testing for drugs or alcohol required by law.  
E. Treatment or Rehabilitation Program. A Contractor may require random testing of any employee in connection with a  
drug or alcohol counseling or rehabilitation program, including testing for a period of up to one year following completion of a  
treatment or rehabilitation program.  
F. Testing. Prior to the test, the applicant or employee must sign a consent and release form authorizing and agreeing to  
the test. The drug test will consist of a urinalysis drug screen and, if a drug screen is positive, a follow-up confirmatory test. The  
test for alcohol may a breath and/or blood sample test as prescribed by the Association administrator.  
G. Re-test. Within three working days of notification of a positive test result, an employee may request that the laboratory  
re-test the original sample at his expense. If the re-test is negative, the Contractor shall reimburse the employee for the cost of the  
re-test.  
H. Administration. The Association's designated program administrator (the "Association administrator") shall select  
following consultation with the program administrator designated by the Union (the "Union administrator”) a qualified testing  
laboratory to conduct all tests appropriate and required by this program. All tests, except the re-test, shall be at the Employer's  
expense.  
A.4. Penalties.  
A. Refusal to consent to any drug or alcohol test contemplated by this policy will be grounds for immediate discharge or, in  
the case of applicants or conditional employees, will result in withdrawal of the offer of employment  
B. When an incident occurs or cause arises for testing under Section A.3, paragraph B above, the employee may be  
suspended for the period of testing and further investigation, with or without pay, depending on the nature and seriousness of the  
incident or actions.  
C. Upon completion of testing and investigation further action may be taken. If the test results are positive, the employee  
may be terminated depending upon the employee's work history, employment record, or the nature and seriousness of his actions  
and conduct.  
| D. If the employee is reinstated to work on the first violation of this policy, or first confirmed positive drug or alcohol test  
result under this pollcy, the employee, other than an applicant, will be referred to a drug or alcohol counseling or treatment program  
deemed appropriate by a qualified consultant. Continued employment is contingent upon acceptance of the referrai and successful  
completion of the program.  
E. Where continuation of employment during the treatment program would constitute, in the judgment of the counselor or  
agency, a significant safety risk, the counselor or agency shail so advise the Association and Union administrator and the employee  
will be suspended without pay pending completion of the program.  
F, Any subsequent violation of the policy or confirmed positive alcoho! or drug test result will result in discharge.  
G. The foregoing is not intended to limit the Contractor's inherent and traditional management rights.  
A.5. Counseling or Treatment.  
A. The Association's administrator, on behalf of its contractor members, shall develop and maintain a list of appropriate  
alcohol and drug abuse treatment centers, counseling centers and/or medical assistance centers, which list shall be reviewed with  
and circulated to the Union administrator.  
B. Such agencies, persons, centers, or programs shail constitute the “qualified consultant” referred to herein. The  
following of the recommendations, advice and counseling and any prescribed treatment by the employee shail constitute the "drug  
or alcohol counseling or treatment program" referred to herein.  
### AGC-MO SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM -22-  
C. A portion of the expenses the employee incurs in consultations and treatment under this program shall be borne by the  
applicable fringe benefit fund referred to in said labor agreement pursuant to and to the extent provided In schedules, terms and  
requirements as the trustees of said fund may from time to time adopt. The trustees of said fund shall prepare and have available  
schedules of benefits or reimbursement available to employees participating in such programs.  
D. Upon the successful completion of a counseling or treatment program, the counselor or agency shall so certify in writing  
to the employing contractors, the Union or to the Association, as the Association and Union administrators shall direct.  
E. If an employee participating in the treatment program prescribed does not comply with the recommendations, advice or  
schedules established by the counselor or counseling agency, the counselor or counseling agency shail immediately advise the  
Association and Union administrator. The foregoing section shall not apply to any employee who voluntarily seeks assistance  
pursuant to Section A.6 "Rehabilitation."  
A.6. Rehabilitation.  
Any employee who feels that he or she has developed an addiction or dependence on alcohol or drugs is encouraged to  
seek assistance. Requests for assistance will be handled in strict confidence through the Association or Union administrators.  
A.7. Miscellaneous Provisions.  
A. The federal government requires certain government contractors to establish and maintain written drug awareness  
programs with certain minimum provisions. In the event that a contractor becomes obligated to comply with such a program, the  
contractor may do so pursuant to the terms hereof.  
B. The Assodation and Union administrators shall prepare an appropriate notice to employees concerning the existence of  
this program, the treatment and counseling available as weil as the penalties described above and shall use their offices to see that  
all employees employed under said collective bargaining agreement are informed concerning the existence of these provisions.  
C. Neither the Association nor the Union, nor their administrators, shall be liable for any activities or conduct engaged in  
pursuant to this program.  
### AGC-MO SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM 2}