— meee 2 ~ oo A ee orem am a hee rer. aw, » ~~ a wr. wee on ote Sr eee ee mt Ee ee wt he ee Foe ee eee me  
~ - + - ” re re a eens  
   
   
### _ OF MISSOURI  
### AND  
May 1, 2006 |  
=  
### F  
### U  
5  
  
### TO  
ApriL 30, 2010  
1  
### _ ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTE  
### TEAMSTERS JOINT COUNCIL  
i. sess > ance  
———— a SS Se ee SSS Sy ee ee SS  
= = = _ ie  
= — ee = ae ~ - ~ — = a ad — ~ = ee —~  
~  
'  
.  
~ + = = = = at a meat ooge’  
Article  
### I  
I]  
166  
iv  
### V  
### VI  
Vil  
VIlt  
### IX  
### XI  
### XII  
### XVI  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement  
### INDEX  
Title Page  
bee 2  
sora snes wie ve as sues noes omens on acs nen ness AW Kai AWW Salen WPS RAM RO Sd 28H A none va 2  
Definition and 3  
Hiring Procedure amd Transfer OF site snes races cases com ves sis cate nes vss us man WANS 4  
### UNION 5  
Working Conditions 6  
Working Time and sam ts SSSR GaN sia cess 8  
RECS GE WAGES ing pcs one covets Si ne 8 NOE RU ORE du 10  
sem iis aps eee GSS hess HESS men 11  
PITRE) SSPE TICS eu en cone tase ena ones pass geese area pis a Fonts paces ved eg EE 12  
Missouri Construction Industry Advancement 13  
Enforcement of Fringe Benefit Contributions 13  
Grievance and Arbitration 15  
Work Assignment and Jurisdictional Disputes 16  
SUBCOMPACHONS sens cine os cues neva xn nnn di Gon See Sn sis Gall 6H RNR 17  
Equal Employment Opportunity 18  
«cic rene nome nase se Aas A SHA HUN peu su 18  
Schedule of Wage Rates — Teamsters 20  
22  
Page I  
### AGREEMENT  
### ARTICLE I  
### Preamble  
1.1. This Agreement is entered into this 1st day of May, 2006, be:ween the Associated General  
Contractors of Missouri (AGC), acting as bargaining representative for and on behalf of those of its members  
who individually ratify and sign this Agreement, hereinafter referred to as. "Employers" or "Contractors," and  
Local Unions chartered by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, T2amsters Joint No. 56, Kansas  
City, Missouri, who are signators to this Agreement, hereinafter called the "Union."  
1.2. It is understood that the AGC in no event shall be bound as principal or be held liable in any  
manner for any breach of this contract by any of the Employers bound tc this Agreement. It is further agreed  
and understood that the liabilities of the Employers signing this contract shall be several and not joint. It is  
further understood that Teamsters Joint Council No. 56, Kansas City, shall in no event be bound as  
principal or be held liable in any manner for any breach of this contract Ey any of the loca! Unions affiliated with  
Teamsters Joint Council No. 56, Kansas City, Missouri, signing the same. It is further agreed and understood  
that the liabilities of the Unions signing this contract shall be several and not joint. It is agreed that the Inter-  
national Union shall not be liable for violations of this Agreement. The signing this Agreement shall  
not be liable for actions of the AGC.  
2.1. The purpose of this Agreement is to establish the hours, wacjes, and other conditions of  
   
employment, and to adopt measures for the settlement of differences, arid to maintain a cooperative relation-  
ship so as to prevent interruptions by boycotts, strikes, or lockouts.  
2.2. It is mutually understood that the following terms and conditions relating to the employment of  
workmen covered by this Agreement have been decided upon by means of collective bargaining, and that the  
following provisions will be binding upon the parties to this Agreement during the term of this Agreement.  
2.3. The Employer agrees to recognize, and does hereby recognize, the Union, its agents,  
representatives, or successors, as the exclusive bargaining agency for all of the employees of the Employers as  
herein defined.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 2  
### | ARTICLE 111  
### Definition and Scope  
3.1. This Agreement shall cover all work, as defined in this Agree nent, throughout the jurisdictional  
area of Joint Council of Teamsters No. 56 excepting Jackson, Clay, Platte, Cass, and Ray Counties. The Union  
agrees that any Employer who is a party to this Agreement shal! have the privilege and shall operate under the  
existing agreements, or extensions thereof, which exist in Jackson, Clay, Platte and Ray Counties between the  
Heavy Constructors Association of the Greater Kansas City Area and Loce! 541 of the International Brotherhood  
of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America, provided they accept and sign such  
agreements.  
3.2. The word "work" when used in this Agreement means ail private and public construction, federal  
and non-federal, performed in this state, with the exception of building construction, for the reason that  
building construction is separate and distinct from all classes of work cov2red by this Agreement, in respect to  
the terms and conditions of employment and the nature of the work as well as the class and skill of the  
workmen required. Building construction is hereby defined to include bu Iding structures, including  
modifications thereof or additions or repairs thereto, intended for use for shelter, protection, comfort, or  
convenience except as follows:  
(A) There are structures which may be building or heavy construction at the election of the Employer.  
The Employer shall notify the Union whether this Agreement will apply on the project prior to the  
start of work on the project. Some examples of these structures are: water or sewage treatment  
facilities, raw water intake or outfall structures, pumping stations (sewage and storm).  
(B) The preparation, grading, and improvement of the property cir site and the excavation for the  
foundations shall be covered by this Agreement.  
(C) The work covered by this Agreement shail include, but shail riot be restricted to, all work performed  
in the construction of streets and highways, airports, utilities, river and harbor work, dredging, flood  
control, levees, railroad and heavy construction and appurteriances, and pile dike and revetment  
work on streams in, and along the border of Missouri.  
3.3. This Agreement covers the asphalt plants if covered by an enforceable prevailing wage  
determination, the Employer's operations on the job site, and the operation of a temporary nature in  
specific support of the job site project if covered by an enforceable prevz iting wage determination, not to  
include permanent facilities nor the Employer's home office facilities of whatever nature, and shall not include  
professional engineers, engineering or clerical employees, guards, watch nen, timekeepers, superintendents,  
assistant superintendents, general foremen, foremen, or any supervisors in charge of any class of labor. None  
of the employees exempted in this paragraph shall be required to be of any Union.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 3  
### ARTICLE IV  
### Hiring Procedure and Transfer of Men  
4.1. The parties agree that the Employer wiil notify the Union of employment opportunities in order that  
the Union may have an opportunity to refer qualified applicants. Nothing herein, however, shall require the  
Employer to use Union referrals as the exclusive source of applicants.  
(A) There shail be a pre-job conference if requested by either party before the commencement of any  
project one million dollars ($1,000,000) and over with all crafts with whan the Employer has an agreement  
through the Associated General Contractors of Missouri, and all transfer of men and other problems that might  
arise on the project shall be discussed at said pre-job conference. All shall be present at the  
pre-job conference if available. On any projects of less than one million Joilars ($1,000,000) the Employer shall  
notify the Union.  
(B) The Employer shall give the Union at least twelve (12) hours if requesting referrals.  
(C) The Employer shall have the right to accept or reject any applicant for employment.  
(D) The Union shall select and refer applicants for employment without discrimination against such  
applicants by reason of membership or non-membership in the Union, ard such selection and referral shall not  
be affected in any way by rules, regulations, by laws, constitutional provisions, or any other aspect or obligation  
of Union membership, policies or requirements.  
(E) In case of reduction of forces, employees who have SIX (6) months of continuous employment with  
the contractor shall be terminated in reverse order of their employment.  
(F) Nothing contained herein shall deny the Union the right to select any applicant for referral on the  
basis of experience in the industry, qualifications, skill, or the Employer's preference regardless of the  
employee's place on the out-of-work list. The Union shall refer workmen cailed for by name if such workmen  
are properly registered and have been previously laid off or terminated ir: the area covered by this Agreement  
or covered by the Agreement of the Heavy Constructors Association of the Greater Kansas City Area.  
(G) The Employer will, when requesting referrals from the focal Union (1) specify the number of  
employees required; (2) the location of the project; (3) the nature and type of construction involved; (4) the  
work to be performed; and (5) such other information as is deemed essential by the Employer in order to  
enable the Union to make proper referral of applicants.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No, 56 Agreement Page 4  
4.2. The Unions, recognizing that the success and efficiency of every Contractor organization in the  
construction industry depends in large measure on the availability to thein of certain men who are skilled in the  
various crafts and classifications, and who have known abilities to work i1 harmony and help organize an  
efficient crew, agree as follows:  
(A) The Employer may bring in from outside Union jurisdiction nc more than fifty (50) percent of all men  
employed on the job. The first man employed on the job shall be from tye local Union having jurisdiction on  
the job, unless the first man has been a steady employee of the company, and in that case the Union having  
jurisdiction shall have the second man. Men furnished by the Employer shall be required to register with the  
local Union prior to employment on the job site.  
4.3. In order that the Employers may be properly advised of the persons and/or offices to be notified by  
the Employer desiring to arrange pre-job conferences or to request a referral of applicants, the Unions will  
promptly furnish to the office of the Associated General Contractors of M:ssouri in Jefferson City a list of such  
persons and offices showing the territorial jurisdiction of each, office telephone numbers, and home telephone  
numbers of the Union agents involved. The Unions will keep these lists revised as necessary.  
5.1. It is understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that as a condition of continued  
employment, all persons who are hereafter employed by the Employer in the unit which is the subject of this  
Agreement shall become members of the Union not later than:the eighth (8th) day following the beginning of  
their employment or the execution date of this Agreement, whichever is the later; that the continued  
employment by the Employer in said unit of persons who are already me nbers in good standing of the Union  
shall be conditioned upon those persons continuing their payment of the periodic dues to the Union; and that  
the continued employment of persons who were in the employ of the Employer prior to the date of this  
Agreement and who are not now members of the Union, shall be upon those persons becoming  
members of the Union not later than the eighth (8th) day following the execution date of this Agreement. The  
failure of any person to become a member of the Union at such required times shall obligate the Employer,  
upon written notice from the Union to such effect and to the further effeit that Union membership was  
available to such person on the same terms and conditions generally available to other members to forthwith  
discharge such person. Further, the failure of any person to maintain his Union membership in good standing  
as required herein shall, upon written notice to the Employer by the Union to such effect, obligate the Employer  
to discharge such person,  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No, 56 Agreement Page 5  
### _ ARTICLE VI 7  
### Working Conditions  
6.1. The number of men to be employed is at the sole discretion cf the Employer. Any workman may  
be shifted by the Employer from one classification of work to another classification of work, or from one piece of  
equipment to another piece of equipment, provided the workman is capable of performing the other work and  
is paid the rate of wages for the classification which provides the higher vrage rate. :  
6.2. Workmen are to be paid the wages according to classifications as set forth in this Agreement, and  
in return the Employer is to receive a fair and honest day's work without any slowing down or stoppage of  
work. There shall be no limitations as to the amount of work a man shall perform during his working day.  
Nothing in this Agreement shal! be construed to define or determine any craft or work jurisdiction or the  
recognition thereof by the Employer.  
6.3. The Employer shall not be required to empioy chauffeurs or Felpers to use or move around on the  
project such machines as truck mounted greasing equipment, air compressors, drills, or any other similar  
automatic or auxiliary machinery. The Employer's supervisory or clerical force may operate pickup trucks or  
station wagons for their own transportation. The mechanical force may drive pickup trucks for their own  
transportation to and from home and to haul around on the project their own tools and occasional parts.  
6.4. (A) Mechanics, mechanic helpers, and greasers when working on equipment operated by  
teamsters and chauffeurs, shall come under the jurisdiction of the Teamsters and Chauffeurs Union.  
(B) Where any job is not large enough to employ both truck anics, helpers, and greasers and  
heavy equipment mechanics and greasers, this classification will be worke:d out by the Employer and the other  
local Union involved as these disputes arise without any stoppage of work.  
(C) It shail be a violation of this Agreement for employees to furnish personal transportation including  
pickups or equipment, except hand tools, to be used in the service of the Employer.  
6.5. The driving of escort equipment shall be done by Teamsters, unless performed by individuals  
excluded under Article ITI, Section 3, the escorting vehicle(s) shall be operated by Teamster(s) from the job site  
where the move originates, unless performed by individuals excluded uncer Article TI, Section 3.  
6.6. When equipment covered by this Agreement is to be moved under its own power from the job site  
to another job site or location, it shall be operated by an employee from the job site where the move originates.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 6  
6.7. The Union agrees not to interfere in any manner with the Employer's right to use any type or  
quantity of machinery, vehicle tools, or appliances. It is agreed that the may secure materials or  
equipment from any market or source except prison made. Hauling by truck of sand, gravel, and crushed  
stone from the source of final production to the job site shall be in compliance with the terms and conditions of  
this Agreement if performed by employees of signatory Employers.  
6.8. It is understood and agreed that the Union shail have no finencial liability for acts of its members or  
agents which are unauthorized and which the Union cannot control. It is agreed, however, that in the event of  
‘such unauthorized action, the Union shall, upon receiving notice thereof, urge its members to return to work, if  
there should be a work stoppage, and just as soon as practical, address < letter to the Emptoyer notifying the  
Employer that the action of the Union member or agents is unauthorized.  
6.9. The Employer shall be privileged to discipline employees responsible for such unauthorized activities  
without violation of the terms of this Agreement, subject, however, to the: grievance and arbitration provisions  
of this Agreement.  
6.10. In order that the Employer may be apprised of the officer o* the Union empowered to authorize  
strikes, work stoppages, or actions which will interfere with the activities required of employees under this  
Agreement, it is understood and agreed that only the top administrative officer of the Union has the power or  
authority to authorize any such actions or give the orders or directions necessary to carry out any such actions.  
6.11. It shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the employees covered hereunder to refuse to  
cross a primary picket line and perform work in any instance where the picket line has been authorized by the  
Union picketing.  
6.12. The Employer shall provide Workmen's Compensation insurance against injury and occupational  
disease and Unemployment Compensation protection for all employees even though not required to do so by  
Missouri state law.  
6.13. Where new types of equipment for which rates of pay are not established by this Agreement are  
put into use, rates governing such equipment shall be subject to negotiations between the parties to this  
Agreement. Rates agreed upon or awarded shail be effective as of the date equipment is put into use.  
6.14. Safety rules and regulations promulgated by the Occupatiorial Safety and Health Administration  
shall be observed.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 7  
6.15. If Teamster equipment is on the job site, there shalt be suff cient Teamsters on the job to perform  
the Teamster work scheduled to be performed with that equipment, however, Teamsters, at no  
reduction in pay, will also perform whatever other work is assigned them whenever the Employer determines  
that the performance of such other work is necessary.  
______ Working Time and Overtime _ |  
7.1. A regular work week shall consist of not more than forty (40) hours work and all work performed  
over and above ten (10) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week shell be paid at the rate of time and one-  
half.  
7.2. A thirty (30) minute lunch break, without pay, between the third and sixth hour will be allowed  
each employee, and the emptoyee will be paid time and one-half for working through his lunch period and will  
be allowed a short time to eat.  
7.3. A work day is to begin between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. at the option of the Employer except when  
inclement weather or other conditions beyond the reasonable control of tiie Employer or requirements of the  
owner prevent work, in which event, the starting time may be advanced or delayed.  
(A) Overtime shall be computed at one-half hour intervals. There shall be no pyramiding of overtime or  
premiums. Make up days shal) not be utilized for days lost due to Holiday's EXECPT AS DEFINED IN 7.4,  
(B) The Employer may establish other working hours on the project, in which event employees starting  
at those other times, shall be paid their reguiar rates of pay. On those projects which routinely work two (2) or  
three (3) shifts, only the graveyard (3rd) shift will receive the premium of fifty cents (50¢) per hour. Projects  
must be scheduled to work nine (9) consecutive shifts to be considered routinely working shifts. On work which  
the owner specifies unusual working hours beyond control of the contractor the premium rate will not apply.  
7.4. The following days are recognized as holidays: New Year's Cay, Memorial Day, Independence Day,  
Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. If a holiday falls on a Si\unday, it shall be observed on the  
following Monday. No work shail be performed on Labor Day except in c:ise of jeopardy to work under  
construction. This rule is applied to protect Labor Day.  
When a holiday falls during the normal work week, Monday throucih Friday, it shal! be counted as eight  
(8) hours toward the forty (40) hour week; however, no reimbursement for this eight (8) hours is to be paid the  
### workman unless worked. AN EMPLOYER WORKING A FOUR (4) DAY, TEN (10) HOUR SCHEDULE MAY USE  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No, 56 Agreement Page 8  
### FRIDAY AS A MAKE UP DAY WHEN AN OBSERVED HOLIDAY OCCURS DURING THE WORK WEEK. EMPLOYEES  
HAVE THE OPTION TO WORK THAT MAKE UP DAY. If workmen are required to work the above enumerate  
holidays or days observed as such, they shail receive time and one-half the regular rate of pay for such work.  
7.5. Greasers may be employed at the regular wage rate for certiain duties which require hours different  
from those of major operations.  
7.6. Workmen shall report for work each working day except when the Employer has notified them not  
to do so before leaving the job or at any time before the workman leaves: his place of residence to report for  
work. The employee shall keep the individual Employer advised at al} tinies of his correct address and  
telephone number, When the employee has no telephone, he shail not te entitled to show-up time in the event  
he reports on a day of inclement weather unless he has previously called the individual Employer at the time  
and place designated in a notice posted on the job.  
If the Employees are not notified that there will be no work, the nien who report shall receive two hours  
(2) reporting time. If an Employee starts to work, he shalt be paid four (4) hours’ time unless prevented from  
working due to inclement weather, machine breakdown or material shortage.  
The provisions of this Article apply on ail shifts. Show-up time hours and guaranteed hours after put to  
work will be regarded as hours worked for the purpose of computing the forty-hour work week.  
7.7. New employees, who may start work later than 8:00 a.m., tre first day, will receive pay for hours  
worked from the time they arrive on the job until quitting time.  
7.8. Greasing in the morning, filling gas tanks, and making machines ready for operation at starting time  
is the oiler's work and shail be paid at the regular rate for this classification of work. Where greasers or oilers  
are not employed, chauffeurs operating the equipment shail service machines during the regular shift or be paid  
at the overtime rate of wages if greasing is done before or after the reguiar work day.  
7.9. Chauffeurs shall start their machines at the regular starting time, and shall return the machine to  
its parking station or shop at the end of work day.  
7.10. No employee shall leave any piece of equipment by quitting unless he has been properly replaced  
by another qualified person. An absent employee, not properly excused |xy the Employer, may be permanently  
replaced.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 9  
7.11. Nothing set forth in this Agreement shall restrict or prohibit the Employer from hiring trucks,  
vehicles, or other equipment on a contract basis. The operators of all equipment coming under the jurisdiction  
of the Teamsters’ Union shail be paid under the wage scales set forth in this Agreement.  
  
8.1. Hourly rates of wages for each classification of labor are set “orth in the Schedule of Wage Rates  
specified in this Agreement, and the rates shown in the Schedule shail to all work and to every workman  
covered by this Agreement unless state or federal wage determinations fior the project are less than that set out  
in this Agreement. In that case the predetermined rate for the project shiall prevail for the duration of the  
project.  
8.2. The Union agrees that no demand for any increase in any wage rate above that specified in the  
Schedule of Wage Rates will be made on any job.  
8.3. Wages, in cash or collectible check, shail be paid to workmer: weekly at the end of the shift not  
later than five (5) workdays after the pay period, unless approval of payralls by governmental agencies prevents  
such payment at that time. Check stubs shail show total wages and itemized deductions. Failure on the part of  
the Employer to comply with this provision shall entitle the employee to cine (1) day's pay for every twenty-four  
(24) hours from the date of the required pay day provided the delay is occasioned by willful negligence of the  
Employer or his agents.  
8.4. (A) Rates of wages and fringe benefits as set forth in this Agreement in effect on the date an  
Employer signatory to this Agreement bids on a project covered thereby remain in effect for the duration  
of the work on said project, but not to exceed a period of more than twe (24) months from the bid  
date. On the second anniversary of the project, if the project continues, the wages and fringes will be  
increased by an amount equal to the effective wage and fringe increases in the first year after the date of the  
original bid letting. The same procedure shall apply on the third anniversary of the date of the bid letting and  
on all subsequent anniversaries.  
(B) Work on projects bid under any previous AGC of Missouri Agreements or addenda shall continue for a  
period of two (2) years at the old wage and fringe benefit rates. On the second anniversary of the project, if the  
project continues, the wages and fringes will be increased by an amount equal to the effective wage and fringe  
increases in the first year after the date of the original bid fetting. The same procedure shall apply on the third  
anniversary of the date of the bid letting and on all subsequent anniversiiries.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 10  
8.5, In the event of multiple layoffs, arrangements may be made between the Employer and the local  
Union for pay checks to be mailed to employees within forty-eight (48) hours. The employees shall furnish the  
current mailing address to the Employer before jeaving the job.  
8.6. If a workman quits of his own accord, he shall wait for his pey unti! the next regular pay day.  
An employee who is discharged or laid off shall be paid in full in accordance with existing Missouri state  
laws, or the provisions of Section 3 shall apply.  
### ARTICLE  
9.1. The Union may appoint a workman to act as steward on each job. The Union will notify the  
   
Employer's superintendent of the appointment. The steward shall be sukject to the same terms of employment  
as any other employee on the job and shall not be discriminated against >y reason of the fact he is serving as  
steward.  
9,2. The steward shall be a working employee who shall, in addition to his requiar work, be permitted to  
perform during working hours such of his duties as steward including the adjustment of grievances as cannot  
be performed at other times. The Union agrees that such duties shall be performed as expeditiously as  
possible.  
9.3. If overtime work is required, the steward shail be one of the workmen who shal) perform the work,  
if he so desires, provided he is capable of performing the work. The Emaloyer agrees in the event of reduction  
of the work force that the employee appointed as steward remain on the job as long as there is work of his  
craft which he is capable of performing.  
9.4. In the event the steward is transferred or discharged, the En:ployer shall notify the Union  
immediately and never later than during the same working day or same shift.  
9.5. The steward shall not stop the Employer's work for any reascin, and shall not leave the project  
during normal working hours for any reason other than to notify the Unicn of unsafe conditions, or unless  
authorized to do so by the Employer.  
AGC-MO/Teamstets Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page If  
### ARTICLE X _  
### Fringe Benefits  
10.1. Health and Welfare. In addition to the wages set out in the: schedule attached to this Agreement,  
each Employer agrees beginning May 1, 2006 to pay for all work covere¢ by this Agreement, FOUR DOLLARS  
SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS ($4.75) per hour for each payroll hour into the Missouri-Kansas Teamsters Health and  
Welfare Pian.  
10.2. Pension. In addition to the wages set out in the schedule zttached to this Agreement, each  
Empioyer agrees to pay beginning May 1, 2006 for ali work covered by this Agreement, THREE DOLLARS  
TWENTY-FIVE CENTS ($3.25) per hour for each payroll hour into the Missouri-Kansas Teamsters Pension Fund  
established by an Agreement and Declaration of Trust dated October 13, 1969.  
10.3. When at any time the trustees of the health and welfare, pension plans OR TRAINING FUND  
request that additional contributions are necessary in order to maintain CR RAISE the level of benefits in effect,  
the wage rates shall be reduced by the amounts requested and the amounts shal! be contributed to said funds.  
Fringe benefits contributions shall be kept current on all projects in individual area.  
10.4. Supplemental Dues Check-Off. Each Employer agrees to deduct SEVENTY CENTS (70¢) from the  
wages of each employee for each payroll hour. In accordance with the t2rms of an individual and voluntary  
written authorization for checkoff of membership dues in form permitted by the provisions of Section 302(C) of  
the Labor Management Relations Act, as amended. The Employer shall cieduct from the wages of all employees  
covered by this Agreement.  
Said sums shall be remitted to the Local Union as supplemental diies or service fees, reporting of these  
sums shall be made in the same manner and on the same forms provided for the payment of fringe benefit  
programs required under this Agreement.  
10.5. Enforcement of Sections 1, 2 and 4 of this Article shal! be gaverned by and in accordance with  
### Article XII of this Agreement.  
### 10.6. WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS OF THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS AGREEMENT THE PARTIES AGREE  
### TO ESTABLISH THE MO-KAN TEAMSTERS APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING FUND BY ENTERING INTO AN  
### AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST PURSUANT TO SECTION 30? OF THE LABOR MANAGEMENT  
### RELATIONS ACT AND SECTIONS 401 AND 501 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE, AS AMENDED.  
### THEREAFTER, THE PARTIES AGREE TO DEVELOP AND ENTER INTO STANDARDS OF APPRENTICESHIP WHICH  
### WILL BE SUBMITTED TO THE BUREAU OF APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING OF THE UNITED STATES  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 12  
### DEPARTMENT OF LABOR FOR APPROVAL AND REGISTRATION AND TO COOPERATE IN PERFORMING ANY  
### ADDITIONAL TASKS NECESSARY TO ESTABLISH AN APPRENTICESHIP PF.OGRAM TO BE OPERATIONAL ON OR  
BEFORE MAY 1, 2007.  
### 10.7. THE UNION OR APPLICABLE TRUSTEES, UPON SIXTY DAYS’ NOTICE PRIOR TO 5/1/07, 5/1/2008,  
### OR 5/1/2009, MAY ALLOCATE THE ECONOMIC INCREASE TO HEALTH AND WELFARE CONTRIBUTION,  
### PENSION CONTRIBUTION, OR APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING CONTRIBUTION SO LONG AS THE TOTAL FRINGE  
### BENEFIT CONTRIBUTIONS AND WAGE RATE DOES NOT EXCEED THE TC'FAL ECONOMIC PACKAGE AS SET  
### FORTH IN ARTICLE XVIII.  
apie pes  
11.1. In addition to the wages set out in the Schedule attached tc this Agreement, each Employer  
   
   
agrees to pay for all work covered by this Agreement ten cents ($.10) pel hour for each payroll hour into the  
Missouri Construction Industry Advancement Fund, established by an Agreement and Declaration of Trust dated  
July 23, 1970.  
11.2. Details of reporting, payment and administration of such co ttributions shall be governed by the  
terms of the Trust Agreement creating the foundation, except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement. All  
Trustees of said Trust shall be members of the Association appointed by :he Board of Directors and any  
disbursement therefrom shall be at the direction of the Trustees, and at their direction only. The said Trust  
Agreement shall specifically provide that no funds shall be disbursed therefrom for the purposes of lobbying in  
support of anti-labor legislation and/or to subsidize contractors by the payment of moneys to them or on their  
behalf in connection with work stoppages or strikes against such contraciors or be used to defray expenses  
arising from any labor dispute or controversy.  
11.3. Enforcement of this Article shall be governed by and in acccirdance with Article XII of this  
### Agreement.  
of Fringe Benefit Cante butions  
12.1. Each Employer signatory to this Agreement agrees to accept and be bound by the terms and  
   
   
provisions of the Agreements and Declarations of Trust establishing the various funds set forth in Article X and  
XI of this Agreement.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 13  
12.2. Payments shall be made to the funds on a monthly basis. °ayments on all hours worked the  
preceding reporting period must be made to the funds’ offices not later than twenty (20) days after the end of  
the month in which the work was performed. Should a payment be mac’e later than twenty (20) days after the  
end of the month in which the work was performed, the Employer agrees to add ten (10) percent to the  
amount due as liquidated damages and not as a penaity.  
12.3. In the event payment is not made to the Welfare Fund within twenty (20) days following the end  
of the month in which the work was performed, and because of such de'inquency, claims for benefits are  
denied employees of such Employers who would have been eligible for Eenefits if the Employer had not been  
delinquent, such Employer agrees to reimburse such employees or survivors or their estates in an amount equal  
to that which would have been paid by certificate through the Welfare Fiind office; provided, however, the  
foregoing shall not apply to a member of the Associated General Contractors of Missouri signatory to this  
Agreement unless such member has been notified prior to the occurrence of the event creating the claim for  
benefits by certified letter concerning the delinquency of payments due on behaif of such employee or |  
employees by the Welfare Fund office and the delinquent member Employer does not comply with the request  
for payment within ten (10) days. A copy of such certified letter shall be furnished to the office of the  
Associated General Contractors of Missouri.  
### 12.4 THE EMPLOYER AGREES THAT SUBSEQUENT TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MO-KAN  
### TEAMSTERS APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING FUND AND UPON THE EFFECTIVE DATE THAT CONTRIBUTIONS  
### ARE REQUIRED BY THIS AGREEMENT TO SAID FUND THAT ALL TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF ARTICLE XII,  
### “ENFORCEMENT OF ARTICLE X FRINGE BENEFIT CONTRIBUTIONS” PARAGRAPHS ONE (1) THROUGH SIX (6)  
### SHALL BE EQUALLY APPLICABLE TO THE MO-KAN TEAMSTERS APPREN ICESHIP AND TRAINING FUND.”  
12.5. If it becomes necessary for any fund to file suit against any Employer for delinquent payment or  
money due any fund, the Employer agrees to pay, in addition to the ten (10) percent liquidated damages  
mentioned above, all litigation costs, including a reasonable attorney's incurred by the Trustees.  
12.6. The Employers aiso agree to permit representatives of the Funds’ offices to examine payrolls,  
Social Security reports and other records necessary to determine amounts due the Funds' office under this  
section of the Agreement.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 14  
### 0 ARTICLEXDI |  
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure  
13.1. Except as provided in Section 5 of this Article, and in that specific instance only, the Union agrees  
that during the term of this Agreement neither they nor any of them will cause, authorize, to permit to take part  
in any strike, slowdown, picketing, or cessation of work, and the Employers agree that during the term of this  
Agreement they will not suspend work or lock out their employees.  
13.2. All grievances, disputes or claims, (hereinafter called "grievainces") except jurisdictional disputes,  
which may arise with respect to wages, hours or conditions of employment or the enforcement or interpretation  
of any of the terms of this Agreement are to be promptly processed and settled in accordance with the  
provisions of this Article.  
Step One -- The party raising the grievance is to first present it to the Union steward and then by the  
steward to the superintendent. The employee may be present. If the dispute is not satisfactorily settled within  
one (1) working day at this level, it shall be referred to the second step.  
Step Two -- Any grievance not resolved at Step One shall be reduced to writing. The Employer and the  
Union's business representative shall meet within two (2) days and seek “o settle the grievance. If the  
grievance is not settled at such meeting, a written reply to the written gr evance shall be given by the  
Contractor or his representative within three (3) working days thereafter.  
Step Three -- Arbitration. In the event the dispute is not settled within seven (7) days at Step Two,  
either the Employer or the Union may refer the matter to arbitration at any time within ten (10) days after the  
Step Two meeting by mailing written notice of intention to arbitrate to th2 other party. If no written notice of  
intention to arbitrate is given within the time required, or if any of the preceding steps are not taken within the  
time and manner prescribed (unless longer times are mutually agreed upon), the grievance shall be conclusively  
presumed to be abandoned. The written notice shall name an representative; the other party shall  
immediately thereafter name an arbitration representative. The Employer and the Union arbitration repre-  
sentative shall then seek to agree upon an impartial arbitrator. If within five (5) days after the notice of  
intention to arbitrate has been mailed, no impartial arbitrator has been ayreed upon, the Union and Employer  
representatives shall write to Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, Washington, D.C., requesting a panel  
of five (5) arbitrators. Upon receipt of the panel, the Union and Employer arbitration representatives shall  
alternately strike names until the panel has been reduced to one (1) person who shall then be requested to  
serve as impartial arbitrator; should he be unable to serve, a new panel cf five (5) shall be requested from  
### FMCS.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 15  
13.3. The impartial arbitrator shall be the chairman of the arbitration hearing and sole arbitrator of the  
dispute. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon beth the Employer and the Union. The  
expenses of conducting the arbitration hearing including the services of the impartial arbitrator are to be shared  
equally by the Employer and the Union. The Union and the Contractor will pay for their respective arbitration  
representatives.  
13.4. In cases where the arbitrator finds that an employee was discharged or disciplined without just  
cause, the arbitrator shall have the power to fashion such a remedy as miay be fair and equitable, taking into  
consideration ali aspects of the case, and such remedy may include restcration to his former position with the  
Employer, restitution of lost wages, or both.  
13.5. If either the Employer or the Union, after any dispute has been settled or finally decided by  
arbitration, refuses to abide by or comply with such settlement or final decision of arbitration, then and in the  
event of such occurrence, it shail not be a violation of the Agreement for the Union to call and engage in a  
strike in the event of the Employer's failure to comply with such settlement, or for the Employer to lock out the  
employees in the event of the Union's failure to comply with such settlenient.  
14.1. Itis the desire and intention of all parties to minimize jurisclictional and work assignment  
      
disputes. It is therefore understood and agreed that the company will erideavor to make employee work  
assignments conform to established craft or bargaining unit jurisdictional lines. It is likewise understood and  
agreed that the various Unions will endeavor to recognize, respect, and by the traditional jurisdictional  
rights of each organization and seek to avoid claims for work assignments and jurisdiction which encroach upon  
the jurisdiction of other organizations.  
14.2. Consistent with the objects and purposes expressed in Section 1 of this Article, except as provided  
in Article VI, it is understood and agreed that all work assignments shall :onform to the following standards and  
be made in accordance therewith:  
(A) Work shall be assigned in the manner contemplated by any existing or future made Agreements  
between the Unions involved.  
(B) In the absence of any of the foregoing, work shall be assigned in accordance with the established  
practice in the local area.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 16  
(C) In the absence of any of the foregoing, work shall be assigned in accordance with any agreement or  
understanding reached by and between the Employer and the Unions which have an interest therein.  
(D) In the absence of any of the foregoing, work shall be assigné id in accordance with the established  
custom and practice within the Employer's establishment.  
14.3. Work assignments made by the Employer shall be respectec! by all Unions, and the craft to which  
the work is assigned shail continue to perform the work in question unless and until a contrary decision is  
rendered pursuant to the following section.  
14.4. In the event of a jurisdictional dispute, the parties shall request the Union or Unions involved to  
meet with representatives of the Union and Employer to settle the dispute. If a settlement is not reached at  
that meeting, the Union shail request that its International Union assign a representative who shall make  
arrangements to meet representatives of the other International Union or Unions involved and representatives  
of the Employer to seek settlement of the dispute. The Employer may alsio request the International Unions  
involved to assign representatives to seek settlement of the dispute.  
The Union and the Employer agree that there shail be no strikes, lackouts, or interruption of the  
disputed work over jurisdictional disputes.  
| Subcontractors  
15.1. The Employer agrees that whenever work covered by this Ayjreement is to be subcontracted, it  
   
shall be subcontracted only to Employers whose employees performing stich work receive wages and fringe  
benefits collectively and other conditions of employment equa! to or better than those contained in this  
Agreement.  
15.2. No such subcontractor shall be required to enter into any acreement as a condition of such  
subcontract, requiring or related to Union recognition, Union security or bargaining representation or which  
requires the adoption of or participation in any trust fund provisions.  
15.3. Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed to force or require any Employer to cease or  
refrain from doing business with any specific person or Employer or otherwise require the disruption of any  
existing business relationship with any other Employer or person.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 17  
### ARTICLE XVI _  
### Equal Employment Opportunity  
16.1. The Employers hereby agree that they will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for  
employment because of race, color, religion, creed, sex, national origin, Vietnam era veteran, disabled veteran  
or qualified disabled person. The Employer will take affirmative action to insure that applicants are employed,  
and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, color, religion, creed, sex,  
disability, or national origin.  
Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the following: Emsloyment, upgrading, demotion or  
transfer; recruitment, or recruitment advertising; layoff or termination; retes or other forms of compensation;  
and selection for training.  
16.2. The Union agrees that they will not discriminate against any applicant for employment or referral  
because of race, color, religion, creed, sex or national origin, Vietnam era veteran, disabled veteran or qualified  
disabled person. The Union further agrees to refer applicants for without discrimination as to race,  
color, religion, creed, sex, disability, or national origin. The Union further agrees to place all applicants for  
employment on the hiring list in accordance with the applicable law and the coilective bargaining agreement;  
and refer them without discrimination because of race, color, religion, creed, sex, disability, or national origin as  
their turn comes up on the hiring list, or as otherwise specified by the collective bargaining agreement, if their  
qualifications meet those required by the Employer.  
16.3. The Employer and the Union agree to comply with ail the provisions of Title VII of the Civil Rights  
Act of 1964 (Public Law 88-352), the rules, regulations and relevant orders of the Equal Employment  
Opportunity Commission established thereunder, Executive Order 11246 and the rules, regulations and relevant  
orders of the _ office of the Federal Contract Compliance of the U.S. Department of Labor.  
17.1. The provisions and rates of this Agreement shall be effective on May 1, 2006 and will remain in  
   
force and effect until Apri! 30, 2010, and thereafter from year to year unless written notice is sent by registered  
mail, given by one of the parties hereto, to the other party hereto, sixty (50) days in advance of May 1, 2010, of  
any succeeding year if said parties desire to amend or abrogate this Agre2ment. If either party gives notice of  
its desire to terminate this Agreement in the manner herein set out sixty “60) days prior to May 1, 2010, all  
obligations under this Agreement shall cease on May 1, 2010. If said is extended beyond May 1,  
2010, it may be terminated on May 1, or any succeeding year in the same: manner.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 18  
17.2. This Agreement covers the entire understanding of the signiators to this Agreement. It is further  
agreed that the signators of this Agreement shall not make any written or verbal agreements that in any way  
conflict with the Articles of this Agreement. Whenever this Agreement conflicts with the customs, working  
rules, regulations, wage scales or understandings of the signators to this Agreement, then this Agreement shall  
supersede ail such portions of such customs, working rules, regulations, wage scales or understandings which  
are in conflict with this Agreement.  
17.3. In the event that any Article or Section of this contract is sp2cifically held invalid or enforcement of  
or compliance with which has been restrained, the parties affected therety shall enter into collective bargaining  
negotiations no later than two (2) work weeks following the date of such invalidity on the request of either  
party for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement fcr such Article or Section during the  
period of invalidity or restraint. If the parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement, either party  
shall be permitted ail legal or economic recourse in support of its demands notwithstanding any provision of this  
contract to the contrary.  
17.4. This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto, th ir successors, administrators,  
executors and assigns. It is understood by this Section that the parties h2reto shall not use any leasing device  
to a third party to evade this contract.  
(A} The Employer shall give notice of the existence of this to any purchaser, transferee,  
lessee, assignee, etc., of the operation covered by this Agreement or any part thereof. Such notice shall be in  
writing with a copy to the Union at the time the seller, transferror or lesscir executes a contract or transaction  
as herein described. The Union shail! also be advised of the exact nature of the transaction, not including  
details.  
(B) In the event the Employer fails to require the purchaser, transferee or lessee to assume the  
obligations of this contract, the Employer (including partners thereof) shail be liable to the Union and to the  
employees covered for all damages sustained as a result of such failure to require assumption of the terms of  
this contract, but shall not be liable after the purchaser, the transferee or lessee has agreed to assume the  
obligations of this Agreement.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No, 56 Agreement Page 19  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### Schedule of Wage Rates — Teamsters Union  
18.1. The fact that certain classifications and rates are established does not mean that the Employer  
must employ workmen for any one or all such classifications, or to man zny particular piece of plant or vehicle  
that happens to be on the work.  
18.2. The following classifications of workmen and correspondinc, rates of wages are made a part of this  
Agreement to which they are attached and are based on hours of work per day and per week as set forth in  
Article VII of this Agreement.  
18.3. In order to properly meet the prevailing economic conditioris in various sections of the State of  
Missouri, the following Areas of the state are hereby established and Classifications and Rates of Wages are  
provided in this Schedule for each area.  
AREAS -- Effective May 1, 2006  
AREA 1 shall be composed of Buchanan County.  
AREA 1A shall be composed of Johnson and Lafayette Counties.  
AREA 1B shall be composed of Bates and Henry Counties.  
AREA 2 shall be composed of Andrew, Barton, Benton, Caldwell, Camder:, Carroll, Cedar, Chariton, Christian,  
Clinton, Cooper, Dade, Dallas, Daviess, DeKalb, Douglas, Greene, Hickory’, Howard, Jasper, Laclede, Lawrence,  
Linn, Livingston, Moniteau, Morgan, Newton, Pettis, Polk, Randolph, St. Clair, Saline, Vernon, Webster, and  
Wright Counties.  
AREA 3 shall be composed of Atchison, Barry, Gentry, Grundy, Harrison, Holt, McDonald, Mercer, Nodaway,  
Ozark, Stone, Sullivan, Taney, and Worth Counties.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 20  
### TEAMSTERS  
### EFFECTIVE RATES -- MAY 1, 2005  
   
ge Benefits:  
Health & Welfare  
Pension  
Supplemental Dues  
### MCIAF  
Total  
co}. | ols  
EIS Ning  
oS  
ge Rates:  
Flat Bed Trucks Single Axle 25.18  
Articulated Dump Trucks  
Station Wagons  
Pickup Trucks  
Material Trucks Single Axle  
Semi and/or Pole Trailers  
Winch, Fork & Steel Trucks  
### RO ROR  
U1] 101) 301] in  
  
Orem |W | | co | ty  
Distributor Drivers & Operators  
Agitator and Transit Mix-Trucks  
Tank Wagon Single Axie  
Tank Wagon Tandem Axle  
Tank Wagon Semi-Trailer  
Insley Wagons, Dumpsters, Half-Tracks,  
Speedace,  
Euclids & other similar equipment  
Float or Low Bo  
Warehouseman  
Apprentice  
### AREA  
as te  
*xK  
oe  
124.12  
     
     
     
        
        
         
    
      
     
     
   
    
     
   
     
** Each Employer agrees to deduct seventy cents (70¢) per payroll hour from the wages of all employees  
covered by this Agreement in Area 1A and Area 1B as Supplemental Dues.  
Tireman, Oiler and Greaser, Station Attendant on Const.’  
Mechanics, Mechanics Helper?  
Shift Pay Differential?  
1  
Tireman, Oiler and Greaser, Station Attendant on Const. -- The above: areas do not apply to these  
classifications. The wage rates and the areas for these classifications: shall be the same as the areas and  
wage rates for the oiler in the operating engineers’ schedule, except :hat operating engineer fringe benefits  
over and above any applicable teamster benefits shall be added to teamster wages:  
Mechanics, Mechanics Helper -- The above areas do no apply to thes: classifications. The wage rates and  
the areas for these classifications shall be the same as the areas and wage rates for mechanics and  
mechanics helper in the operating engineers’ schedule, except that operating engineer fringe benefits over  
and above any applicable teamster benefits shall be added to teamster wages.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Counci! No. 56 Agreement  
Page 2i  
> Shift pay differential -- Graveyard shift fifty cents (50¢) per hour, above regular rates.  
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2007: $1.10 total increase to be taken in wages or fringe benefits at the Union’s option.  
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2008: $1.10 total increase to be taken in wages or fringe benefits at the Union’s option,  
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2009: $1.15 total increase to be taken in wages or fringe benefits at the Union's option.  
### WAGES TO BE NEGOTIATED BY PARTIES AT THE TIME THE APPRENTICE PROGRAM BECOMES OPERATIONAL  
### ON OR BEFORE MAY 1, 2007.  
### | ARTICLE XIX  
19.1. Wages to be paid for "Private, Utility and Development” werk shall be $3.50 per hour fess than  
those rates set out in Section 18.3 of this Agreement. Private, Utility ancl Development work shall not include  
any work that is covered by Davis-Bacon or other similar state or local wage determinations. Work which is not  
so covered shall be deemed to be "Private, Utility and Development" work if (a) it involves any work for any  
utility company, except on a power house site; or (b) it involves any work for a water or sewer district or  
subdistrict; or (c) it involves water or sewer work (storm or sanitary); or (d) it involves street and parking lot  
grading, excavation or paving work which pertains to (1) either new or existing residential areas with structures  
of four stories or less, whether occupied temporarily or permanently or (2) commercial or industrial work with a  
total project cost of Three Million Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand ($3,750,000.00) or less; or (e) it  
involves work on a railroad or railway work on public or private property  
19,2. (A) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, on predetermined rate projects  
the specified governmental predetermined rate shail be substituted for tye rate set forth in Section 18.3 and  
said rate shall be paid for the duration of the project except that before the commencement of the last one  
tenth (1/10) of the project the Employer agrees to pay the then current rate of wages and fringes benefits.  
The current fringe benefits will be paid throughout ail such projects. Any required fringe benefit contributions  
shall be deducted from the predetermined rate total and paid to the respective funds with the balance going to  
the employee. Health and welfare increases, as called for in the Agreenient, will be paid as described in Section  
10.1 and shail not be considered a part of this Section.  
(B) In the event that the predetermined rate is less than that set forth in Section 18.3, the Union may  
direct in writing as to what funds contributions are to be made by the Ernployer.  
19.3. In an effort to promote union work, in areas where open snop work is predominant or non-union  
contractors are known to be bidding, the Union may modify the terms o” this Agreement on a job to job basis or  
for a definite period of time and for a defined geographical area. This Section shall not be arbitrable. All sig-  
natory contractors bidding on the same job or working within the same area shall be given the same relief.  
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Councii No. 56 Agreement Page 22  
th  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have set their hands this f g day of Ata ef  
2006.  
### THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL LOCAL UNIONS AFFILIATED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL  
### CONTRACTORS OF MISSOURI BROTHERHOOD TEAMSTERS, TEAMSTERS JOINT  
### COUNCIL NO. 56, CITY, MISSOURI  
W?.  
By bp  
### PRES!DENT  
   
AGC-MO/Teamsters Joint Council No. 56 Agreement Page 23