  
2004-2007  
Highway & Heavy  
### AGREEMENT  
I 2  
   
Between  
### LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION  
### ROCHESTER REGION  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA  
### NEW YORK STATE  
### CHAPTER, INC.  
Perit | tay - png AL 3/, 2.007  
LOCALS 103 & 435  
### LABORERS INTERNATIONAL  
### UNION  
### OF  
### NORTH AMERICA  
### AFFILIATED WITH THE AFL-CIO  
H & H 2004-2007  
SS 53 Pages  
### LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA  
### NEW YORK STATE  
### CHAPTER, INC.  
Theodore J. Czerw  
Assistant Managing Director  
1900 Western Avenue  
Albany, New York 12203  
Telephone: (518) 456-1134  
FAX: (518) 456-1198  
### PAGE  
as «54 194 ewe pea us l  
### ARTICLE  
I. cece ee eee es I  
I}. Definition 2  
lil. Geographic Jurisdiction...........,... 4  
EV. Union Jurisdiction 5  
V. Pre-Job Conference 7  
VI. Union 7  
VII. Work Conditions 9  
VIE. Hours of Work eee ee 1]  
IX. Holidays eee 13  
X. Show-Up 14  
XI. Pay Day and Mode of Payment ........ 1S  
XII. Laborer Foreman 15  
Subcontracting ee 17  
XIV. = cece eee eae 19  
XV, Pension, Welfare, $.U.B., Annuity and  
Training 20  
XVI. — Labor-Management Cooperation....... 23  
AVI. Carryover cece eee ee ee 24  
XVIII. Watchmen and 24  
XIX. — Status Quo on Certain Equipment ...... 26  
XX, Arbitration. 00. eee eee 26  
XXI. Deductions 31  
XXII. 32  
XXIII. Equal Employment Opportunity ....... 34  
XXIV. Most Favored Employer .............. 35  
XXV. Savings 35  
Wages cece cece eee 36  
XXVIf. ccc. cane 42  
INDEX (Cont.)  
### ARTICLE PAGE  
### XXVIII. Drug—Alcohol Abuse Policy........... 42  
XXIX. Duration and Termination............. 43  
Addendum A 45  
Individual Employer ............--.-. 47  
### AGREEMENT  
THIS AGREEMENT, made this Ist day of April,  
2004, by and between the LABOR RELATIONS  
### DIVISION, ROCHESTER REGION of the ASSO-  
### CIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF  
### AMERICA, NEW YORK STATE CHAPTER, INC.  
(hereinafter referred to as the “Association’’), acting  
for and on behalf of its present and future members,  
and LOCALS 103 and 435 of the LABORERS  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMER-  
ICA, affiliated with A.RL.-C.LO. (hereinafter  
referred to as the ‘“Union”).  
### WITNESSETH:  
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to stabilize  
employment in the Heavy and Highway Construction  
Industry, agree upon wage rates, hours and conditions  
of employment.  
NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned Associa-  
tion and Union, in consideration of the mutual  
promises and covenants herein contained, agree as  
follows:  
### ARTICLE |  
### LIABILITY  
|. The Association and the Unions named herein  
are negotiating agents for their present and future  
members. For any breach of this Agreement the lia-  
bility of the members of the Association and the  
Local Unions shall be several and not joint and the  
liability of the Association shall only be that of nego-  
ating agent without liability for the acts of its respec-  
tive members.  
2. The Association shall notify the Union in writ-  
ing within seven (7) days after the time that a new  
member joins the Association and becomes a mem-  
ber of the L.R.D./A.G.C. — Rochester Region.  
### ARTICLE II  
### DEFINITION  
1. This Agreement is to cover all Highway and  
Heavy Construction which for the purposes of this  
Agreement is defined as including, but not limited to,  
the construction of: highways, roads, streets, alleys,  
grade crossings, driveways, sidewalks, curbs, guard  
rails, fences, culverts, park ways, parking areas, run-  
ways, taxiways, ramps and aprons and related work  
for excavation for conduit, bases and foundations for  
lighting and water lines and de-icing systems; athletic  
fields; highway and railroad and similar structures;  
railroad and street railway projects; railroad track  
work; sewers; sewage treatment projects: pumping  
stations; sedimentation beds; water mains, grade sep-  
arations, foundations incident to the work herein  
described; abutments, retaining walls, viaducts, track  
elevations, elevated highways, drainage and recla-  
mation projects; reservoirs and water supply projects;  
pure water projects; power plant construction outside  
the building line and inside the building line to the  
first floor level; water pollution control treatment  
plants; water power developments, hydroelectric  
developments, transmission lines, duct lines,  
pipelines, docks, dams, dikes, levees, revetments,  
irrigation and flood control projects, channels, chan-  
2  
_  
nel cutoffs, dredging projects, jetties, break waters,  
locks, piers, pile driving, industrial sites, school sites,  
tank farms, bulk plants, and all earth moving, tnclud-  
ing the installation, operating, maintenance and dis-  
assembly of construction equipment and plants used  
in connection with and servicing the aforementioned  
work, prison work to the building line.  
2. Certain types of work hereinabove described  
are more specifically covered as follows:  
(a) On pipeline construction both liquid and vapor  
from the first metering station or connection of the  
main transmission carrier to the distribution carrier,  
and transmission and distribution systems, under-  
ground and above ground communication systems,  
foundations and excavation on power transmission  
fines, oil static lines. Tank farms, bulk plants and  
pumping stations are excluded.  
(b) Construction of sewer (sanitary and storm)  
and water lines and mains:  
(c) Sewer and water plant construction outside the  
bulidng line and inside the building line to finish  
grade level;  
(d)} Borings. culverts and tunnels (for highway  
and railroad crossings) incidental or in conjunction  
with the work mentioned above at (a), (b) and (c);  
(e) The work mentioned in (b), (c) and (d) of this  
section On industrial, commercial and school sites.  
(f) Work covered in Section 2 shall be performed  
pursuant to this Agreement in so far as it does not  
conflict with the national pipeline agreement.  
(g) Worker and foreman conditions for this work  
are specifically described in Article XII, Section 6.  
### ARTICLE Ill  
### GEOGRAPHIC JURISDICTION  
1. This Agreement is to cover all Heavy and  
Highway Construction work in the geographical  
jurisdiction of Locals 103 and 435 as provided for in  
Section 2.  
2. The geographic jurisdiction as stated will not be  
changed for the purposes of this Agreement during  
the duration of such Agreement.  
LOCAL NO. 103 - Counties of YATES,  
### SENECA, CAYUGA, ONTARIO (Townships  
of South Bristo!, Canandaigua, Manchester,  
Hopewell, Seneca, Gorham, Phelps, Naples and  
Geneva), and WAYNE (Townships of Arcadia,  
Lyons, Galen, Savannah, Huron, Rose, Wolcott  
and Butler).  
Business Manager  
Carmen Servet! Box 571  
Geneva, NY 14456  
(315) 539-4220  
FAX: (315) 539-4150  
LOCAL NO. 435 - Counties of MONROE,  
### LIVINGSTON, ORLEANS, GENESEE,  
WYOMING, ONTARIO (Townships of Victor,  
Farmington, East Bloomfield, West Bloomfield,  
Richmond, Bristo! and Canadice), and WAYNE  
(Townships of Ontario, Williamson, Sodus,  
Walworth, Marion, Macedon and Palmyra).  
Business Manager  
Robert Brown 20 Fourth Street  
Rochester, NY 14609  
(585) 454-5800  
FAX: (585) 454-5411  
### ARTICLE IV  
### UNION JURISDICTION  
1. This Agreement is to cover all watchmen, flag-  
men (all crafts), fire watchmen, traffic contro! men,  
laborers, foremen (grade, pipe, concrete, forms, seed-  
ing, asphalt, clearing and grubbing, clean-up,  
stonelaying) in the performance of: the taying of all  
types of pipe and conduit including the relining of  
existing pipe and the fuston of plastic pipe; unloading  
and installation of lagging; unloading, handling and  
mstallation of sound barner; the spreading and pour-  
ing and raking and tamping of all asphalt and con-  
crete materials and the bull floating (strike off) of all  
concrete; curing of concrete; the laying of all types of  
stone or manufactured curb, np-rap, paving blocks,  
concrete blocks (paving), Belgium Block; assem-  
bling and placing of Gabion and all similar types of  
baskets; the handling, the loading and unloading and  
stringing of all materials, the handling, loading and  
stringing of all wood products by hand or power; the  
sharpening of all air tool bits and drills and bul!  
points; any and all types of heaters to be attended and  
handled and fueled by Laborers at al] times when in  
use except where existing agreements provide other-  
wise; the handling, the laying and placing of forms  
used for curbing, gutters, roads and and the  
stripping of same; the placing, setting and mainte-  
nance of all flares, blinker lights and reflectors; the  
cutting and chipping road joints; the handling, the  
loading and unloading and distributing of chain-link  
fence; handling and erecting of wire fence; the sand-  
blasting and applying of sealers and hardeners and  
epoxy on concrete and asphalt work; the nozzle oper-  
ators on sandblasting and guniting operations; the  
signaling of all materials (manufactured or otherwise)  
which ts handled or put in place by laborers; the han-  
dling, the loading and unloading and distribution and  
installation of all guard rails, highway signs and road  
markers; single diaphragm and 1/4" pumps to be  
attended, handled and fueled by laborers; the oper-  
ating of all types of machines used to seal any type of  
joints; the operating and servicing of mortar mixers  
and conveyors used in laborers’ work regardless of  
number; the operating and servicing of rock drilling  
machines; the blasting and dynamiting of all rock; the  
placing of all pre-cast and prestressed materials  
except when placed or installed by the manufacturer  
pursuant to its collective bargaining agreement, han-  
dling, untoading, loading, assembling and laying of  
all multiplate; the operation of all air, gas, electric, oil  
and other type of motor driven tools including all  
pusher type equipment; the handling, tending and  
maintaining of Homelite and like generators; wreck-  
ing and demolition; containment membrane liner;  
rubbing concrete; prefabricated bridging; rebar repair  
and retie; concrete finisher, including all concrete  
structures, bridge decks and sidewalks; all water  
lines, headwalls, capping of manholes and filter  
material; the building of all encapsulations for  
asbestos and hazardous waste. The foregoing applies  
in the performance of all the aforementioned work  
and all other work coming under the jurisdiction of  
the L.LU. of N.A.-A.EL.-C.LO,  
### ARTICLE V  
### PRE-JOB CONFERENCE  
!. There shall be a mandatory pre-job conference  
within ten (10) days of the award at the Union’s  
request. The Employer agrees to meet with the Union  
for a pre-job conference prior to the commencement  
of any work on the subject project and the same shall  
apply to any and all subcontractors, the names of such  
subcontractors to be provided the Union before said  
subcontractors start work.  
### ARTICLE Vi  
### UNION RIGHTS  
1. It shall be a condition of employment that all  
employees of the Employer covered by this Agree-  
ment who are members of the Union in good stand-  
ing on the effective date of this Agreement shall  
remain members in good standing or those who are  
not members on the effective date of this Agreement  
shall, on or after the eighth (8th) day following the  
effective date of this Agreement become and remain  
members in good standing in the Union. It shall also  
be a condition of employment that all employees cov-  
ered by this Agreement and hired on or after its effec-  
tive date, shall on or after the eighth (8th) day fol-  
lowing the beginning of such employment become  
and remain members in good standing in the Union.  
2. Failure of any employee covered by this Agree-  
ment to meet the requirements described in paragraph  
1 above, will, upon the Union’s written request, result  
in his discharge by the Employer.  
3. The Employer agrees that in providing oppor-  
tunity for employment it will give priority to persons  
who have had one (1) year or more of service since  
January |, 1981, in the constniction industry in the  
type of work covered by this Agreement, and in the  
various geographic areas described in Article IIE, Sec-  
tion | of this Agreement. It is understood that this  
clause is not applicable to Union employees who  
have previously been in the employment of an LRD  
contractor.  
4. The Employer and the Union agree that the  
foregoing pnonity shall be exercised without regard  
to union membership or non-membership and the  
Employer agrees to give the Union an opportunity to  
provide such additional employees as he needs.  
5. Itis agreed that on each job the Union Business  
Manager shal] appoint a working Shop Steward who  
will be named at the pre-job conference. The Labor-  
ers’ Steward will be employed at all times that any  
labor work is performed or any Laborers are  
employed on the project except that on overtime  
and/or specialty work, the Steward can only assert  
seniority provided he is qualified to do the work. He  
will be paid for ail time lost due to not having been  
notified by the Employer or the Employer's agent to  
report for work. He will be allowed sufficient time to  
perform his duties and will not be discharged, laid-  
off, or transferred by reason of the performance of his  
duties as Steward without prior approval of the Busi-  
ness Manager.  
6. The Laborers’ Steward shall be notified prior to  
any hiring or lay-off.  
7. Authorized representatives of the Union shall  
be allowed to visit jobs during working hours to inter-  
8  
on  
view the Employer and the Employees but in no way  
shall such person or persons interfere with or hinder  
the progress of the work.  
8.{a) Employees injured at work shall be paid for  
the time spent going to the doctor's office for treat-  
ment at the time of injury. If the doctor certifies in  
writing that the employee is unable to return to work  
that day, the injured employee shall be paid for the  
balance of that working day.  
(b) The injured employee shall be allowed two (2)  
hours ume from work for additional visits to the doc-  
tor for injuries sustained while in the Employer’s ser-  
vice without loss of pay. It shall be understood, how-  
ever, that such visits during working hours shall be  
made only when no other arrangements can be made  
and an affidavit is received from the doctor stating the  
necessity for each visit.  
(c) The injured workman shall, if at all possible,  
be given preference to any light work, if the same is  
available, that may be performed on the job provided,  
however, that he is still in the employ of the  
Employer where the injury occurred and the doctor  
certifies in writing that the employee can do the work  
to which he is to be assigned.  
### ARTICLE VII  
### WORK CONDITIONS  
!. The Employer shall furnish all necessary tools  
that the employees are to use.  
2. (a) At the time of hire or such later date as may  
be appropriate, employees covered by this Agree-  
ment shail be furnished slipover rubber boots, rain-  
suits and hats which shall remain the property of the  
Employer and be returned at the termination of use or  
employment.  
(b) At the first full pay period following the issu-  
ing of such articles, the actual cost to the contractor  
of the said articles sha}] be deducted from the pay of  
each such employee covered by this contract. Upon  
termination of employment, such employees who  
retum the articles issued will be refunded the amount  
deducted from pay.  
3. The Employer shall supply special gloves for  
the performance of work necessitating their use.  
4. The Employer shall provide suitable shelter of  
sufficient size where al] laborers may eat their lunch  
and hang their clothing. The Employer shall also  
assume responsibility in case of loss of fire. No tools,  
building equipment or combustible materia! shall be  
stored therein. Employees shall be required to exe-  
cute a verified proof of loss in case of fire.  
5. The Employer shall provide and the Laborers  
shal] maintain clean and sanitary toilet and drinking  
facilities.  
6. (a) The Union and the Employer expressly  
agree that a stable work force is required at all times  
in this seasonal industry and that the absence of indi-  
vidual employees has a sefious impact on the  
Employer’s project productivity and efficiency.  
(b} Absences from scheduled work are to be dis-  
couraged and accordingly such absences are just  
cause for discharge of an employee or employees.  
7.(a) The Employer and the Union are committed  
to providing a safe environment for its employees  
and the public and also maintain a reliable, produc-  
10  
tive, quality workforce and thus affirm that construc-  
tion job sites subject to this Agreement must be alco-  
ho! and drug free.  
(b) Employees whose job performance is  
impaired by the use of alcohol or drugs create an  
unacceptable risk to themselves, co-workers, and the  
public.  
(c) Employees who violate the joint policy on  
substance abuse may be subject to discipline up to  
and including immediate discharge.  
### ARTICLE Vill  
### HOURS OF WORK  
|. The work week shall consist of Monday  
through Friday.  
2. Normal workday shall consist of eight (8) hours  
with one-half (42) hour for lunch. The starting time  
shall be set by the Contractor except that starting time  
shall not be changed from day to day. The workday  
must start no sooner than 6:00 a.m. nor later than  
8:00 a.m., except as may be otherwise mutually  
agreed upon by the Employer and Union.  
3. Two shifts may be worked in twenty-four (24)  
hours and shall be of equal duration and at the same  
rate. However, in a two shift operation, where the  
combined number of hours worked by the two shifts  
is sixteen (16), or less, each shift shall be paid eight  
(8) hours’ pay at straight time. Notwithstanding the  
foregoing provisions, when a shift is shut down by  
reason of completion of the shift work to be per-  
formed or conditions beyond the Employer’s control,  
the affected shift shall be paid on the basis of the  
11  
show-up time provisions contained herein in Article  
X. This clause is equally applicable to the three (3)  
shift provisions hereinafter contained in Sub Article  
4. Thus, it 1s understood that there is no guarantee that  
on a given day, one shift might not vary due to  
weather, equipment breakdown or changes in opera-  
tion schedules.  
4, Three shifts may be worked in twenty-four (24)  
hours and shal) be at the rate and duration as set forth  
below.  
Ist Shift  
8 hours’ work 8 hours’ pay  
2nd Shift  
7-4 hours’ work 8 hours’ pay  
3rd Shift  
7 hours’ work 8 hours’ pay  
Every shift shall have one-half hour for lunch.  
When three (3) shifts are worked, the second and  
third shift shall be considered for payroll purposes as  
having worked in their entirety on the same day on  
which the first shift started. On multiple shift work,  
the work week shall start not earlier than 5:00 a.m.  
The Contractor shall set the starting time.  
5. Prior to the start of shift work, the Employer  
shall give forty-eight (48) hours’ notice to the Bust-  
ness Manager. When the shift work to be performed  
shal] be Jess than ten (10) working days in duration,  
prior agreement of the Business Manager shall be  
required. In the event of an emergency or directive of  
the letting agency, prior agreement for shift work of  
less than ten (10) working days duration is not  
required, but notice will be given to the Business  
Manager prior to the starting of such shift work.  
12  
6. One and one-half (1/4) times the rates set forth  
in this Agreement shall be paid for work performed  
outside the scheduled workday and all work per-  
formed on Saturday. All work on Sunday will be paid  
at double time.  
7, Alleligible employees shall be allowed time off  
to vote on Election Day in accordance with applica-  
ble law.  
8. FLEXTIME. With respect to any project that is  
100% Federally funded, awarded by a Federal  
Agency, the payment of overtime after eight (8) hours  
will not apply. Overtime will only be required to be  
paid after forty (40) hours.  
### 9. SINGLE IRREGULAR WORK SHIFT: A sin-  
gle irregular work shift can start any time from 5:00  
p.m. to 1:00 a.m. All employees who work a single  
irregular work shift on governmental mandated night  
work shall be paid an additional $1.75 per hour. It is  
understood and agreed that if the single irregular  
work shift language is not included in the NYS  
Department of Labor prevailing wage rate schedules,  
the premium is waived.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### HOLIDAYS  
1. There shall be no paid holidays.  
2. Employees who work on a certain designated  
holiday(s) shall be paid at double time. The desig-  
nated holidays are Memorial Day, Independence  
Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day  
and New Year’s Day, irrespective of the day of the  
13  
week on which the holiday may fall. If the holiday  
falls on Sunday, it will be celebrated on Monday.  
3. If an employee is ordered out and reports for  
work on a designated holiday, set forth in Section 2  
above, and does not start, then he shall be paid a min-  
imum of two (2) hours pay at straight time. If he starts  
work on a designated holiday, he shall be paid a min-  
imum of two (2) hours or actual hours worked at dou-  
bie time.  
### ARTICLE X  
### SHOW-UP TIME  
I. Any laborer who reports for work at the regu-  
larly appointed starting time, unless he has been noti-  
fied personally before leaving his domicile that his  
services will not be required, shall be entitled to  
show-up time of two (2) hours at straight time. The  
Employees shall remain on the job for the two (2)  
hour period unless otherwise directed by the  
Employer. Employees directed to stand-by beyond  
the two (2) hour period shall be paid show-up time  
plus such additional stand-by time.  
However, if an employee reports for work at start-  
ing time but is unable to work due to weather condi-  
tions or reasons beyond the employer’s control, such  
employee is not entitled to show-up time.  
2. Employees reporting for work at starting time  
shall, if put to work, receive a minimum pay of two  
(2) hours or actual hours worked, whichever is  
greater.  
14  
### ARTICLE Xi  
### PAYDAY AND MODE OF PAYMENT  
1, Employees performing work under this Agree-  
ment shall be paid once a week on the job. No more  
than six (6) days pay shall be withheld. If the payday  
falls on a holiday, payment shal] be made on the  
workday preceding such holiday. On failure to pay on  
the regularly scheduled payday, the Employer will  
pay a penalty of two (2) straight time hours for pay-  
day and for each succeeding day on which he fails to  
pay where such failure to pay is willful or due to con-  
ditions within the Employer’s control.  
2. All wages shall be payable in lawful currency,  
enclosed in an envelope which shows the employee’s  
name and employer’s name, regular hours worked  
plus overtime hours worked, all lawful deductions,  
and the amount due or by a negotiable payroll check  
showing all of the above information drawn upon a  
commercial bank within the region, payable upon  
demand at par.  
3. If any employee is discharged or laid off, all  
accrued wages shall be due and paid immediately,  
except that by mutual agreement an employee may  
be paid by check mailed within twenty-four (24)  
hours. If not mailed within 24 hours, such employee  
shall be paid an additional $25.00 for each additional  
24 hour period the check was not mailed.  
### ARTICLE Xi  
### LABORER FOREMAN  
i. When more than three (3) employees covered  
by this Agreement are employed, a Laborer Foreman  
15  
will be designated by the Employer. Designated  
Foremen shall assume the keeping of time for  
Employees covered by this Agreement.  
2. Laborer Foreman (grade, pipe, etc.) shail be  
designated by and at the discretion of the Employer  
and shall be assigned to such duties and responsibil-  
ities as the Employer, the Dirt Superintendent or other  
supervisory personnel may determine in its or his sole  
discretion. The Employer or his representative shall  
be the sole judge of whether such employees are  
qualified to perform the assigned work.  
3. The wage rates for foremen covered by this  
Agreement shall be seventy-five cents ($.75) over the  
highest classification covered by this Agreement  
which such foreman supervise.  
(a) Any foremen covered by this Agreement may  
be employed on a weekly basis at a salary agreeable  
to the Employer and the foreman.  
4. The Union agrees that no restrictions shall be  
placed upon the selection of Grade Foremen by the  
Contractor or the use of Grade Foremen freely among  
locals throughout the territorial jurisdiction of this  
Agreement (100% mobility) provided they are a  
member of a Union party to this Agreement.  
5. With respect to all other foremen, the Union  
agrees not to impose more than 50% restriction on the  
Contractor’s Foreman requirements per project in  
connection with an individual’s necessary member-  
ship in a particular local (50% mobility) provided he  
is a member of a Union party to this Agreement.  
However, there may be 100% mobility on other fore-  
men, per specialty work, if approved at a pre-job  
meeting.  
16  
6. (a) Foremen shall be named as may be required  
by the Employer and at the Employer’s discretion. In  
the event that more than one foreman is employed on  
a project, the Union shall be afforded an opportunity  
to supply 50% of such men.  
(b) On gas distribution, electric and telephone  
work there shall be fifty percent (50%) mobility  
between the local unions with respect to foremen and  
workmen. The first foreman may come from the  
Employer.  
(c) On other work covered by Article If, Section  
2, there shall be fifty percent (50%) mobility with  
respect to foremen and twenty-five (25%) mobility  
among the unions with respect to other workmen.  
### ARTICLE Xill  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
1. Itis agreed that if the Employer subcontracts  
job site work falling within the terms of this contract,  
provision wil! be made in each subcontract for the  
compliance by said subcontractor with terms, con-  
ditions of employment, wages, S.U.B., welfare, pen-  
sion, annuity, training and L.E.C.E.T. contributions  
not less than those contained in this Agreement.  
2. A subcontractor is defined as any person, firm,  
partnership, self-employed person or corporation  
who agrees, under contract, oral or written, with the  
general contractor or his subcontractor to perform on  
the job site any part or portion of the work covered by  
this Agreement.  
3. With respect to subcontractors who are not  
members of the Labor Relations Division-Rochester  
17  
Region, A.G.C., or who have not si gned the contract  
as an individual employer, the following rules shall  
apply:  
(a) Such subcontractors shall! be required to remit  
fringe benefit payments on a weekly basis.  
(b) On the first failure of such subcontractor to  
remit fringe benefits or first instance on which the  
subcontractor is delinquent, the Union shall noti fy the  
Prime Contractor of the said failure to remit or delin-  
quency.  
(c) After having been notified of a failure to remit  
or of a delinquency, the Prime Contractor shall be  
responsible for each such fringe benefit payment pur-  
suant to Sub Article (d) below.  
(d) After notification by the Union, the Employer  
is responsible for checking with the funds to deter-  
mine whether the regular payments are being made.  
However, once any non-payment has been rectified  
and the subcontractor resumes payments as required  
under 3(a), the Prime Contractor is relieved of any  
responsibility to check with the Funds until notifica-  
tion is again received in writing by the Union of fur-  
ther alleged delinquency.  
(e) The Prime responsibility is lim-  
ited to fringe benefits applicable to its project on  
which the defaulting subcontractor is employed.  
(f) The Prime Contractor does not assume the  
above responsibility with respect to subcontractors  
who are members of the L.R.D.-Rochester Region,  
AGC, or who are individual signatories to the labor  
contract,  
4. Off-site gravel or material pits, the material  
from which is used fora particular project covered by  
  
this Agreement shall be operated under the terms of  
this Agreement when the pit is owned, leased, oper-  
ated by or under the control of the Prime Contractor  
or another corporation or company of which the  
majority ownership is held by the Prime Contractor  
or its majority owner or owners.  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### SAFETY  
1, Noemployee shall be required or assigned to  
engage in any activity involving dangerous condi-  
tions of work or danger to person or property in vio-  
lation of an applicable statute, court order, or gov-  
ernmental regulation relating to safety of person or  
equipment.  
2. In the event that the Employer violates Section  
| above, a withdrawal by the Union of the services of  
the man or men engaged in the particular operation  
shall not be in a violation of this contract by the  
Union.  
3. The Employer and the Union do hereby agree  
to work together to promote safety on the job for the  
benefit of all employees. Safety miles and regulations  
will be made known to all employees and the use of  
safety equipment will be continually promoted by  
both parties.  
4. (a) The Union and the Employer agree that  
willful neglect and failure by an employee to obey  
company safety rules and regulations; or to obey  
safety rules, standards and regulations as prescribed  
pursuant to the Occupational Safety and Health Act  
or other governmental regulation or legislation; or to  
19  
use properly such safety devices or equipment as are  
provided by the Company shall be just cause for dis-  
charge and it shall be the decision of the Union as to  
whether recourse will be had to the grievance proce-  
dure of this‘Agreement.  
(b) The Union agrees to cooperate with the com-  
pany in encouraging employees to observe the safety  
regulations prescribed by the company and to wear  
properly and utilize safety equipment as required by  
the company and to work in a safe manner.  
(c) The Union further agrees that Union represen-  
tatives visiting job sites shall obey all company safety  
rules and regulations and shall obey all safety rules,  
standards and regulations prescribed pursuant to the  
Occupational Safety and Health Act or other govern-  
mental regulation or legislation, and shall wear and  
use properly all safety devices or equipment employ-  
ees on the job site are required to wear and use.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### PENSION, WELFARE, S.U.B.,  
### ANNUITY AND TRAINING FUNDS  
1. (a) The Employer hereby agrees to contribute  
the amounts hereinafter provided for in Article XX VI  
of this Agreement to designated Laborers Pension,  
Welfare, Supplementary Unemployment Benefit,  
Annuity and Training Funds (hereinafter singularly  
and collectively referred to as “Fund”) for each actual  
hour worked by employees covered by this Agree-  
ment. it is the purpose of this Article to provide that  
where a Local Union, party to this Agreement has  
established a Fund jointly trusteed by Labor and  
20  
Management, then said contributions shall be paid to  
said Local Fund in the amounts hereinafter set forth  
in this Agreement.  
(b) The Employers party to this Agreement accept  
the Trustees now serving on such Fund and hereby  
waive the nght to name new, other successor or addi-  
tional trustees.  
2. The Employer agrees to contribute the amount  
per hour hereinafter set forth in Article XX VJ for  
each actual hour worked except where an employee  
is paid pursuant to the 2+ actual hours worked clause  
herein provided for at Article X of this Agreement  
in which case contributions shall be paid on the same  
basis as the 2+ actual hours worked clause.  
3. Each Local Union party to this Agreement shall  
be considered as an Employer under this Agreement  
for the purpose of paying the contributions men-  
tioned in this Article on its Employees.  
4. (a) In the event that the Employer does not  
make contributions to the Fund as provided for  
herein, the Employer agrees that he will be charged  
with ali necessary litigation and accounting expenses  
incurred by the trustees of the Fund in collecting the  
monies due hereunder and that a money judgment  
may be rendered against such Employer for such lit-  
igation and accounting expenses in addition to a judg-  
ment for unpaid contributions.  
(b) Litigation and accounting expenses shall be  
determined so as not to be in excess of the minimum  
fee schedules for the legal and accounting professions  
in the area in which such work is performed.  
5. (a) Each Employer shall furnish the Trustees of  
the respective funds with periodic reports as required  
21  
by the Fund showing the names, social security num-  
bers, hours worked and location of job of each  
employee performing work covered by this Agree-  
ment.  
(b}) Subcontractors covered by Article XIII, Sec-  
tion 3 shall remit contributions on a weekly basis.  
(c) In the event that no workers are employed dur-  
ing the report period, a negative report and/or a final  
report shall be filed.  
(d) Monthly reports are due the {5th day of the  
month following the month on which contributions  
are being made.  
6. The books and records of each Employer perti-  
nent to the employment of Employees covered by  
this Agreement, shal} be made available at all rea-  
sonable times for inspection and audit by a licensed  
CPA employed by the Fund, including, without lim-  
itation, payroll! sheets, W-2 Forms, New York State  
employment reports, Social Security reports, ledgers,  
vouchers and any other pertinent items concerning  
payrolls. Inspection shall be restricted to a verifica-  
tion of payments made and/or due to the Fund. Cost  
of such inspection shall be borne by the Fund except  
in cases where an Employer is delinquent in making  
contributions, in which case the delinquent Employer  
shall bear the cost of inspection and audit. Detin-  
quency is defined as continual late payments and not  
honest errors.  
22  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### LABOR-MANAGEMENT  
### COOPERATION  
The Employer and the Union recognize that they  
must confront issues of mutual concern which are  
more susceptible to effective resolution through  
labor-management cooperation than through the col-  
lective bargaining process. To seek resolution of  
these mutual concerns, to address issues regarding  
health and safety, and to advance mutual interests  
through labor-management cooperative efforts, it is  
agreed that the Employer shail contribute to the New  
York State Laborers-Employers Cooperation and  
Education Trust and to the New York Laborers’  
Health and Safety Fund for the term of this Agree-  
ment, including any extensions or renewals thereof.  
The Employer shall contribute to the New York State  
Laborers-Employers Cooperation and Education  
Trust as provided for in Article XXVI for each actual  
hour worked. The Employer shall also contribute to  
the New York Laborers’ Health and Safety Fund as  
provided for in Article XXVI for each actual hour  
worked. The Employer shall submit all contributions  
and all contribution reports to the desi gnated Labor-  
ers’ Local Fund Office. The Fund Office shall  
promptly forward the contributions and contribution  
reports to the Laborers Regional Office, Trust Divi-  
sion, for the accounts of the Trust and Fund. The  
Employer and the Union hereby adopt and agree to  
be bound by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust  
establishing the New York State Laborers-Employ-  
ers Cooperation and Education Trust, as amended, as  
well as the Agreement and Declaration of Trust  
23  
establishing the New York Laborers’ Health and  
Safety Fund, as amended.  
2. It is mutually agreed and understood by the  
union and employers signatory to this Agreement,  
that in the event any Project Labor Agreements are  
effected within the geographical jurisdiction of this  
Agreement during its term, the union will use its best  
efforts, during negotiation of the PLA, to protect past  
practice in the assignment of work jurisdiction. It is  
the intent of the parties to this Agreement thal a pro-  
ject labor agreement will not disrupt work which has  
traditionally been performed under the terms and  
conditions of this Agreement and that the terms and  
conditions of this Agreement be followed as closely  
as practical.  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### CARRYOVER  
|. For all work bid on or after June 1, 1991, there  
shall be a twelve (12) month carryover from the bid  
date of the posted proposal wage rates.  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### WATCHMEN AND GUARDS  
i. Guards are to be excluded from the bargaining  
unit, Guards may be used for the security of the con-  
tractors’ equipment and material only and they will  
not at anytime be required to punch time clocks or  
perform work of employees covered by this Agree-  
ment.  
24  
2. Watchmen are employees on projects requiring  
a coverage under Item 619 (Maintenance and Pro-  
tection of Traffic) and such employees are covered by  
only the following provisions of this Agreement:  
Article VI, Sections 1, 2, 3, 8(a), (b)} and (c); Article  
### VII; Article XIII, Sections 2 and 3; Article XIV; Arti-  
### cle XV; Article XVI; Article XVII; Article XXI; and  
### Article XXIII.  
3. When watchmen service is subcontracted, the  
provisions of this Article shall apply equally to such  
subcontractors.  
4. The 2+ actual hours worked clause of this con-  
tract (Article X) does not apply to watchmen. The  
hourly rate shall be paid at straight time for actual  
hours worked without regard to the day of the week  
or whether a holiday is involved. Time and one-half  
(14) shall be paid for hours worked in excess of forty  
(40). Overtime for watchmen shall be computed only  
on hours worked as a watchman without regard to  
hours that such man shall have worked on the project  
as a laborer.  
5. The duties of a watchman shall include main-  
tenance of barricades, lights and signs, and similar  
non-productive maintenance and safety functions,  
acting as fire watch but shall not tend fuel fires.  
6. Watchmen Rates: The watchman’s rate shall be  
75% of the (a) rate, plus fringes. Such basic rates shall  
be rounded to the nearest one-half (4) cent.  
25  
   
### ARTICLE XIX  
### STATUS QUO ON  
### CERTAIN EQUIPMENT  
!. The parties hereto recognize that the operation  
of certain equipment and work assignments may  
raise questions regarding jurisdiction of work in areas  
of one or more of the local unions party to this Agree-  
ment, The equipment involved is:  
(a} Hydraulic Seeder  
{b) Concrete Curb Machine  
(c} Asphalt Curb Machine  
(d) Snorkel  
(e) Stump Remover  
(f) Blower for Burning Bush  
(g) Hydraulic Motorized Pin Puller  
(h) Self-Propelled Concrete Saw  
(i) Self-contained drill  
2. Pending final determination of the jurisdiction  
of the above equipment, such equipment and the  
operation thereof shall remain “status quo.”  
### ARTICLE XX  
### ARBITRATION  
1. During the term of this Agreement, neither  
party shall order or permit any lockout, strike, or  
other work stoppage or slowdown. Further, the Union  
will not aid, support or permit unauthorized strikes,  
slowdowns or work stoppages by its members.  
26  
2. Grievance Procedure: All grievances or dis-  
putes involving any controversy, dispute or misun-  
derstanding arising as to the meaning, application or  
observance of any provisions of this Agreement shall  
be handled in the manner hereinafter set forth. It is  
agreed that all matters pertaining to the interpretation  
of this Agreement must be referred directly to the  
Joint Committee, provided that if a grievance has not  
been filed, the matter shall not be a subject of arbi-  
tration until a grievance is filed.  
Step 1. All grievances must be made known in  
writing to the other party within seven (7) calendar  
days after the reason for such grievance has occurred.  
The aggrieved employee’s or employees’ shop stew-  
ard or another authorized representative of the Union  
shall first submit a written grievance to the Job Super-  
intendent, or his duly authorized representative. The  
Shop Steward or another authorized representative of  
the Union of the Employee or the Employees  
involved shall be present at any meeting between the  
Job Superintendent and such employee or employ-  
ees. The Job Superintendent or his duly authorized  
representative must make a written disposition of the  
matter within twenty-four (24) hours after the sub-  
mission of such written grievance thereto.  
Step 2. If the disposition of the matter by the Job  
Superintendent or his duly authorized representative  
is not satisfactory, the matter must be taken up by the  
Business Agent, and representative of the Employer  
with authority to act within forty-eight (48) hours of  
the written disposition set forth in Step 1.  
Step 3. If the disposition of the matter in Step 2 is  
not satisfactory, either party has a right to file its  
grievances with the Joint Committee referred to in  
a?  
Section 2 of this Article within seventy-two (72)  
hours after Step 2.  
3. The Unions, Association and Employer who  
are signatories to this shall together establish for the  
duration of this Agreement, a Joint Committee. The  
Joint Committee shall consist of three (3) representa-  
tives of the Employers and three (3) representatives  
of the Union. Ail meetings of the Joint Committee  
must be attended by each member or his altemate, but  
the absence of any member or alternate shall not  
invalidate the action of the members of the Joint  
Committee who are present.  
It shall be the function of the Joint Committee to  
settle disputes and grievances which cannot be settled  
in accordance with Steps 1, 2 and 3 of the grievance  
procedure. The Joint Committee shall formulate rules  
of procedure to gover the conduct of its proceedings  
including the time, date and place of meetings.  
A decision by a majority of the Joint Committee  
shall be final and binding on the parties and employ-  
ees involved. Failure of either party involved to com-  
ply with any final decision of or to submit to the juris-  
diction of the Joint Committee shall give the other  
party the immediate right to all legal and economic  
recourse.  
4. Rights of the Joint Committee: The Joint Com-  
mittee shall have the right to investigate all facts per-  
taining to the dispute. The Joint Committee shall,  
upon each dispute or grievance processed in accor-  
dance with this Article after completion of or as a part  
of Step 2, have the right to examine time sheets and  
any other records pertaining to the computation of  
compensation of any individual or individuals whose  
pay is in dispute. Both parties shall be entitled to pre-  
28  
sent such evidence and witnesses in support of their  
position as they see fit.  
5. Arbitration: If a grievance cannot be satisfacto-  
rily settled by a majority decision of the Joint Com-  
mittee, the grievant shall request a list of seven (7)  
arbitrators from (1) the panel arbitrators of the New  
York Board of Mediation; (2) the Federal Mediation  
and Conciliation Service, or (3) the labor panel of the  
American Arbitration Association for final and bind-  
ing decision. Such request shall be no jater than fif-  
teen (15) calendar days, from the date of the oral  
announcement of the Joint Committee's decision, by  
the grievant or his duly assigned representative. Fur-  
ther, any arbitration agency named shall be used only  
for every third arbitration that may arise between the  
parties to the end that arbitrators be selected on a  
rotating basis in the order in which the agencies are  
hereinabove listed. The arbitrator shall be selected by  
alternately eliminating names from the seven (7) per-  
son list until one remains, the grievant or his repre-  
sentative shall strike the first name. Upon failure to  
comply with the provisions of this entire section on  
the part of the grievant, the grievance shall be deemed  
to have been closed without decision.  
The arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction or author-  
ity to add to, modify, detract from, or alter in any way  
the provisions of this Agreement or any amendment  
or supplement thereto or to add new provisions of this  
Agreement or any amendment or supplement thereto.  
If the arbitrator should determine that the grievance  
is not covered by this Agreement, he shall return the  
grievance to the parties without decision and the  
grievance shall be closed. In such case, the costs, if  
any, shall be borne by the grievant.  
29  
6. Violations concerning wages, hours, and all  
fringe benefit payments shall not be subject to the  
grievance procedure. In such cases, the Union shall!  
give three (3) working days notice to the Employer  
that the Union will withdraw its men from the  
Employer’s service. If the Employer contends there  
is a question of fact regarding the alleged violation,  
he may file a grievance within the aforesaid three (3)  
working days with a copy to the Local Union and a  
copy to the Co-Secretaries of the Committee. When  
a grievance has been filed, there shall be no work  
stoppage pending resolution of the grievance pur-  
suant to Article XX (2)(3) and subsequent provisions  
of this Article. Work jurisdiction, that is, disputes  
with respect to whether one group of employees or  
another group of employees, shall perform certain  
work on the project is expressly not arbitrable under  
this contract.  
7. Any discharged employee may file a grievance  
no later than four (4) days after discharge by a writ-  
ten notice submitted to the Project Manager or Super-  
intendent and the Loca! Union and such grievance  
shall be immediately processed in accordance with  
the steps of the grievance procedure.  
8. The administrative costs of the Joint Commit-  
tee shall be borne equally by the Employers and the  
Union.  
9. The costs of arbitration, which shall include the  
fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne by  
the Company in case its principal contention is  
rejected by the arbitrator, and by the Union in case its  
principal contention is rejected by the arbitrator,  
except, however, that each party shall pay the fees of  
its own representatives and witnesses. Any dispute as  
30  
to whose principal contention is rejected shall be  
determined by the arbitrator. In the case that both par-  
ties’ principal contention is upheld in part, the arbi-  
trator shall designate what part of the costs are to be  
bome by which party according to the relative merits  
of each party’s position.  
10. The Union, Association and Employer  
expressly agree that the Contractors, present and  
future, who comprise the multi-employer bargaining  
group, do not subscribe to, are not a part of, nor are  
they to any extent bound by the Impartial Board for  
the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes or the rules,  
regulations or procedures of the Impartial Board for  
the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes.  
### ARTICLE XxI  
### DEDUCTIONS  
1. ‘The Employer shall deduct from the basic wage  
rate of employees covered by this Agreement, the  
amounts hereinafter set forth in Article XXVI for  
each actual hour worked by such employees.  
2. No deductions shall be made for any such  
employee unless the employee has deposited with the  
Employer his copy of an executed authorization  
form, which shall in no event be irrevocable for a  
period of more than one (1) year or the termination  
date of this Agreement whichever shall be the less.  
3. Executed copies of the authorization cards will  
be kept on file by the Union and the Employer.  
4. The Employer assumes no obligation with  
respect to the obtaining of authorization cards, it  
31  
being understood that this is a duty and obligation of  
the Union.  
5. With respect to any such Employee for whom  
authorization cards have not been furnished, the gross  
basic wage rate appearing hereafter at Article  
shall be paid to the Employee on a straight and/or  
time and one-half basis as shall be applicable under  
this contract.  
6. Deductions shall be made in the first full pay-  
rol! period following the furnishing of authorization  
cards,  
7. The Union shall indemnify and save the  
Employer harmless against any and al! claims,  
demands, suits or other forms of liability that shal]  
arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken  
by the Company in reliance upon authorization cards  
furnished by the Employees and/or Union.  
### ARTICLE XXiIl  
### APPRENTICESHIP  
1. New applicants for membership who cannot  
provide reasonable proof of 4,000 or more hours of  
employment as a Construction Craft Laborer (or,  
alternatively, cannot demonstrate equivalent skills in  
4 placement examination administered by the Joint  
Apprentice and Training Committee (JATC)) shall,  
whenever possible, enter the Apprenticeship pro-  
gram. Any person entering but failing to maintain and  
complete his or her Apprenticeship shall not be  
employed by the Employer as a Joumeyworker under  
this Agreement. The failure of any Apprentice to  
maintain his or her Apprenticeship status shall oblig-  
32  
ate the Employer to discharge such person upon  
notice from the Union.  
2. The Employer shall participate in the Appren-  
ticeship Program by accepting apprentices for  
employment upon referral of the Union.  
3. The ratio of apprentices to journeyworkers on  
any project site is one (1) apprentice to three (3) jour-  
neyworkers. The Employer may not employ an  
Apprentice until at lest one Journeyworker is  
employed and thereafter may not employ more than  
one (1) Apprentice for every additional three (3)  
Journeyworkers.  
4. Apprentice applicants are required to have a  
substance abuse test and physical prior to acceptance  
into the program or Union. The Welfare Fund or  
Training Fund shall pay the cost of such testing. The  
Training Fund shall coordinate related administra-  
tion.  
5. An apprentice shall not be penalized for taking  
time off from work to attend offsite training (though  
time off for training is unpaid).  
6. The Employer may pay a higher rate of pay at  
its option. However, the apprentice must meet his/her  
commitments to the Joint Apprenticeship Committee  
regardless of the level being paid.  
7. The Employer shall pay an Apprentice the full  
fringe benefit package as described in this contract.  
8. Entry into the apprenticeship program shall be  
controlled by the JATC, which shall employ appro-  
priate testing and screening procedures. An Appren-  
tice advances from one hours-of-credit and wage rate  
category to another only upon determination of satis-  
factory performance by the JATC, which shali have  
33  
the authority to grant accelerated credit where war-  
ranted by the performance of an individual appren-  
lice.  
9, An Apprentice should, whenever possible, be  
rotated by the Employer through different types of  
work so as to become trained in a variety of operation  
and work skills. Where the Employer is unable to  
provide an Apprentice with experience in the full  
range of craft skills, the JATC may request the Local  
Union to reassign the Apprentice to other employ-  
ment in order to provide that experience. For so long  
as, the Employer is able to provide the necessary  
range experience the Employer may choose to retain  
the Apprentice from job to job but shall notify the  
Union and JATC of all reassignments.  
10. Apprentice wage rates:  
Hours of Credit Wage Rate  
0-1,000 hours 60% of Journeyworker  
1,001-2,000 hours 70% of J ourneyworker  
2.001-3,000 hours 80% of Journeyworker  
3,001-4,000 hours 90% of  
Over 4,000 hours Journeyworker rate  
### ARTICLE Xxill  
### EQUAL EMPLOYMENT  
### OPPORTUNITY  
The Employer and the Union mutually agree that  
they will comply and cooperate with all laws, codes,  
rules, regulations, executive orders and administra-  
tive decisions, whether state or federal, dealing with  
non discrimination in training, membership, employ-  
ment, job tenure, promotions and every other matter  
34  
covered by such laws, codes, etc. not herein expressly  
mentioned. The use of masculine or feminine gender  
in this agreement shall be construed as including both  
genders.  
### ARTICLE XXIV  
### MOST FAVORED EMPLOYER  
1. Ifthe Union enters into any agreement with any  
individual employer or group of employers perform-  
ing work covered by the terms of this Agreement and  
that Agreement provides for more favorable wages,  
hours, or conditions to any other Employer, the  
Employers signatory hereto, after sending written  
notice of such intention, shall be afforded the privi-  
lege to adopt such advantageous terms and condi-  
tions.  
2. This clause shall not apply to isolated or emer-  
gency situations which may occur from time to time  
under regular conditions, nor shall this clause apply  
to any project agreement that is put in place before  
the bid.  
### ARTICLE XXV  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
In the event that any State or Federal Statute or  
Law shall supersede or invalidate any clauses in this  
Agreement, such Statute or Law shall prevail over  
any such clause; however, the other provisions of this  
Agreement shall be valid and remain in full force and  
effect. In the event that any section or portion thereof  
shall be declared invalid, it is further agreed that the  
35  
parties hereto shall meet within a period of sixty (60)  
days to redraft a new section or portion thereof,  
which shall be valid and which shall replace that sec-  
tion or portion thereof declared invalid.  
### ARTICLE XXVI  
### WAGES  
1. A Laborer shall be paid for the entire day at the  
rate applicable to the highest classification in which  
he has worked that day.  
2. Whenever the letters a, b, c and d appear here-  
inafter, the use of the letter shall be considered as  
describing the following work classifications:  
(a) Flagperson  
(b) Basic rate, Bull Float, Chain Saw, Concrete  
Aggregate Bin, Concrete Bootman, Gin Buggy,  
Hand or Machine Vibrator, Jack Hammer, Mason  
Tender, Mortar Mixer, Pavement Breaker, Handlers  
of all Steel Mesh, Small Generators for Laborers’  
tools, installation of bridge drainage pipe, vibrator  
type rollers, tamper, drill doctor, tail or screw opera- ‘  
tor on asphalt paver, water pump operator (1%4" and  
single diaphragm) nozzle (asphalt, seeding, and sand  
blasting), Laborers on chain link fence erection, rock  
splitter and power unit, pusher type concrete saw and  
all other gas, electric, oil and air tool operators, form  
setters, stone or granite curb setters.  
(c) All rock or drilling machine operators (except  
quarry master and similar type), acetylene torch oper-  
ators, powderman, gunite nozzleman, pipe layer,  
wrecking laborer, asphalt rakers (top only).  
(d) Blasters,  
36  
3. Wage rates, Welfare, Pension, S.U.B., Annuity,  
Training and L.E.C.E.T. contributions and deduction  
amounts are set forth below.  
NOTE: The base wage appearing below includes  
the amount to be deducted for each actual hour  
worked for DUES and/or PAC.  
37  
Wage Rate and Fringe benefit schedules will be adjusted as follows: Effective July 1, 2004 — $1.42 gross  
increase; Effective July 1, 2005 — $1.42 gross increase; Effective July 1, 2006 — $1.42 gross increase.  
### ROCHESTER REGION LRD/AGC  
### LABORERS LOCAL 103 (GENEVA)  
### 2004-2007 HIGH WAY-HEAVY WAGE RATE SCHEDULES  
Effective July 1, 2004  
### WAGES WELFARE PENSION ANNUITY TRAINING 1.£.C.E.T. *“PACDed “W/ADed TOTAL  
a) $22.51  
b) 23.21 $4.40 $3.47 $.90 $.35 $.15 -$.05 -7% $32.48  
c) 23.4]  
d) 24.21  
*Deductions upon receipt of signed authorization card from employee. A percentage deduction will be on  
gross wages exclusive of fringe benefits.  
Effective July 1, 2004, 2005, 2006 there will be an increase of $1.42 per hour worked. The increase shall  
go into wages (as shown above) and/or existing Funds. All frnge benefit contributions shall be fully tax  
deductible to the Employer and non-taxable to the employee. All other employer various  
wage rates, and deductions will remain as per the current Agreement.  
  
Wage Rate and Fringe benefit schedules will be adjusted as follows: Effective July 1, 2004 - $1.42 gross  
increase; Effective July 1, 2005 — $1.42 gross increase; Effective July 1, 2006 — $1.42 gross increase.  
### WAGES WELFARE PENSION  
a) $21.17  
b) =. 21.87  
c) 22.07  
d} 22.87  
$3.70  
### ROCHESTER REGION LRD/AGC  
### LABORERS LOCAL 435 (ROCHESTER)  
### 2004-2007 HIGH WAY-HEAVY WAGE RATE SCHEDULES ~ JOURNEYMAN  
Effective July 1, 2004  
### ANNUITY TRAINING L.E.C.E.T. *PAC Ded  
$2.43  
$3.00  
$.45  
$1.03  
-$.10  
### *“W/ADed TOTAL  
-6% $31.78  
$32.48  
$32.68  
$33.48  
*Deductions upon receipt of signed authorization card from employee. A percentage deduction will be on  
gross wages exclusive of fringe benefits.  
Effective July 1, 2004, 2005, 2006 there will be an increase of $1.42 per hour worked. The increase shall  
go into wages (as shown above) and/or existing Funds. All fringe benefit contributions shall be fully tax  
deductible to the Employer and non-taxable to the employee. All other employer contributions, various  
wage rates, and deductions will remain as per the current Agreement.  
### ROCHESTER REGION LRD/AGC  
### LABORERS LOCAL 435 (ROCHESTER)  
### 2004-2007 WAGE RATE SCHEDULES - APPRENTICE  
Effective July 1, 2004  
July 2004 Hours Rate Set From Journeyman Rate of $32.48  
% OF “PAC = * WIA  
### TIME FRAME RATE WAGES WELFARE PENSION ANNUITY TRAINING L.E.C.E.T. Qed Ded TOTAL  
upto 1000 «60% «$14.26 $3.70 $0.00 $0.00 $50 $1.03 -$.10 -6% $19.49  
1001-2000 70% $17.51 $3.70 $0.00 $0.00 $50 $1.03 -$.10 -6% $22.74  
2001-3000 80% $18.75 $3.70 $000 $2.00 $50 $1.03 -$.10 -6% $25.98  
3001-4000 90% $19.57 $3.70 $2.43 $2.00 $50 $1.03 -$.10 -6% $29.23  
*Deductions upon receipt of signed authorization card from employee. A percentage deduction will be on  
gross wages exclusive of fnnge benefits.  
4. The wage rates for foremen covered by this  
Agreement shall be seventy-five cents ($.75) over the  
highest classification covered by this Agreement  
which such foremen supervise.  
Any foremen covered by this Agreement may be  
employed on a weekly basis at a salary agreeable to  
the Employer and the foremen.  
5. DRILLS — Individual wagon drills, track-  
mounted drills, jack-leg drills and multiple type drills  
shall require a drill helper except that the Union and  
the Employer recognize that in certain cases one  
helper may be able to service more than one drill. In  
such cases, the manning shall be pursuant to a project  
agreement between the Union and the Employer.  
6. HAZARDOUS WASTE — When an employee  
covered by this Agreement performs hazardous  
waste removal work on a State and/or Federally des-  
ignated waste site, and where relevant State and/or  
Federal regulations require employees to be fur-  
nished, and those employees use or wear required  
forms of personal protection, then in such case an  
employee shall receive the (b) hourly rate plus $1.50  
per hour.  
### 7. SINGLE IRREGULAR WORK SHIFT —- A  
single irregular work shift can start any ime from  
5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. All employees who work a sin-  
gle irregular work shift on governmental mandated  
night work shall be paid an additional $1.75 per hour.  
It is understood and agreed that if the single irregu-  
lar work shift language is not included in the NYS  
Department of Labor prevailing wage rate schedules,  
the premium is waived.  
41  
### ARTICLE XXVII  
### BONDING  
Any employer may be required to provide a bond  
or other collateral/security if it has not been signatory  
to this Agreement for at least two (2) years or it has  
not had two (2) years of covered employment requir-  
ing payment of contributions to the employee bene-  
fit plans identified in Article XV and XVI of this  
Agreement. The bond or other collateral/security will  
be in the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars  
($25,000) or in such other amount as the Trustees of  
the employee benefit plans may determine to be  
appropriate in the circumstances.  
### ARTICLE XXvVIll  
### DRUG-ALCOHOL ABUSE POLICY  
(a) The employer and union are committed to pro-  
vide a safe work environment for its employees and  
the public and also maintain a reliable, productive,  
quality work force and thus affirm that construction  
job sites subject to this Agreement must be alcohol  
and drug free.  
(b) To that end the Local 103 drug abuse policy  
and program (Workplace Safety of Upstate New  
York) is available for use by employers under this  
Agreement. Likewise, the Local 435 joint labor-man-  
agement uniform drug/alcoho! abuse program is  
available for use by employers under this Agreement.  
42  
### ARTICLE XXiX  
### DURATION AND TERMINATION  
It is agreed by both parties that all the conditions of  
this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect  
from April 1, 2004 to March 31, 2007, and during  
each calendar year thereafter, unless on or before the  
30th day of January, 2007, or any year thereafter,  
written notice of change to this Agreement be served  
by either party upon the other party.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOE., the parties hereto have  
caused this Agreement to be duly subscribed by their  
duly authorized representatives the day and year first  
above written.  
### FOR THE LRD/AGC ROCHESTER REGION  
/s/ Todd Curran  
/s/ David DeJohn  
/s/ Daniel C. Hogan  
/s/ James H. Keeler  
/s/ Theodore J. Czerw  
### FOR LOCAL 103  
/s/ Carmen Serrett  
### FOR LOCAL 435  
/s/ Robert Brown  
  
THIS AGREEMENT, made this Ist day of April,  
1997 by and between the LABOR RELATIONS  
### DIVISION-ROCHESTER REGION of the  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF  
### AMERICA, NEW YORK STATE CHAPTER, INC.  
(hereinafter referred to as the “LRD/AGC”), and  
### LOCALS 103 and 435, LABORERS INTER-  
### NATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA,  
affiliated with the A.F.L.-C.LO. (hereinafter referred  
to as the “Union’’).  
### WITNESSETH:  
1. Itis understood and agreed that any Employer  
signatory to this Agreement may use the Local 435  
Excavating and Paving and Light Commercial  
Agreements for private (non-posted rate) work with-  
out being required to sign the Building Trades Agree-  
ment,  
2. It is understood and agreed that Local 103 will  
negotiate a private work agreement.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have  
caused this Addendum to be duly subscribed by their  
duly authorized representatives the day and year first  
above wrilten.  
### FOR THE LRD/AGC ROCHESTER REGION  
és! Todd Curran  
/s/ David DeJohn  
/s/ Daniel C, Hogan  
/s/ James H. Keeler  
/s/ Theodore J. Czerw  
### FOR LOCAL 103  
/s/ Carmen Serrtett  
### FOR LOCAL 435  
/s/ Robert Brown  
46  
### INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYER  
In consideration of the time, efforts, and sums  
expended by the Union, the Labor Relations Division  
and the Employer in the negotiation of the foregoing  
contract, in consideration of the similar time, effort  
and sums expended and to be expended in its admin-  
istration, and further consideration of the mutual  
promises and obligations of the Union, the Labor  
Relations Division and its member contractors, and  
Employers, the undersigned individual employer  
agrees:  
1. That he (it) has read the foregoing collective  
bargaining Agreement, dated April 1, 2004, and  
agrees, as an individual employer to be bound by  
each and all of the terms, conditions and provisions  
thereof and also agrees to be bound by the interpreta-  
tions and enforcement of the Agreement. He (It) fur-  
ther agrees to furnish both the Labor Relations Divi-  
sion and the Union with signed copies of this  
Agreement.  
2. That he (it) waives the right to name or partici-  
pate in the selection of any management trustee to  
any and all jointly trusteed funds provided for in said  
Agreement, further agrees to accept the trustees now  
named to these fund as his designated trustees, and  
agrees to be bound by the provisions of the trust  
indentures creating the respective funds.  
47  
   
### NAME OF FIRM  
  
ae  
   
### AN AUTHORIZED OFFICER, TITLE  
   
### FIRM STREET ADDRESS  
   
### CITY AND STATE  
   
### TELEPHONE NUMBER  
Local Union:  
   
By:  
   
### AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE  
Date:  
### UNION COPY  
   
48  
### INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYER  
{In consideration of the time, efforts, and sums  
expended by the Union, the Labor Relations Division  
and the Employer in the negotiation of the foregoing  
contract, in consideration of the similar time, effort  
and sums expended and to be expended in its admin-  
istration, and further consideration of the mutual  
promises and obligations of the Union, the Labor  
Relations Division and its member contractors, and  
Employers, the undersigned individual employer  
agrees:  
1. That he (it) has read the foregoing collective  
bargaining Agreement, dated April 1, 2004, and  
agrees, as an individual employer to be bound by  
each and all of the terms, conditions and provisions  
thereof and also agrees to be bound by the interpreta-  
tions and enforcement of the Agreement. He (It) fur-  
ther agrees to furnish both the Labor Relations Divi-  
sion and the Union with signed copies of this  
Agreement.  
2. That he (it) waives the right to name or partici-  
pate in the selection of any management trustee to  
any and ail jointly trusteed funds provided for in said  
Agreement, further agrees to accept the trustees now  
named to these fund as his designated trustees, and  
agrees to be bound by the provisions of the trust  
indentures creating the respective funds.  
49  
### NAME OF FIRM  
By:  
### AN AUTHORIZED OFFICER, TITLE  
### FIRM STREET ADDRESS  
### CITY AND STATE  
### TELEPHONE NUMBER  
Local Union:  
By:  
### AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE  
Date:  
NOTE; This page to be filled out in duplicate and  
one copy forwarded to:  
Labor Relations Division  
New York State Chapter Inc.,  
Associated General Contractors of America  
1900 Western Avenue  
Albany, New York 12203  
LRD/AGC COPY (LIUNA Locals 103 and 435)  
50