K $400  
3 000  
### CARPENTERS ia pf?  
### MASTER LABOR AGREEMENT  
between  
Oregon Columbia Chapter  
The Associated General  
Contractors of America, inc.  
and  
Pacific Northwest  
Regional Council of the United  
Brotherhood of Carpenters  
and Joiners of America  
ray — Fahy  
iT  
aly  
### (MALIN Tes  
For the period  
June 1, 2002 - May 31, 2006  
  
    
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Page  
l  
Definitions 2.002... ecu Z  
Purposes of this Agreement 3  
Article 1- Territory 2  
### Article 2- Work Affected  
3 - Effective Date-Duration-Modification ....,. 8  
“No strike, no lockout” provisions ........,. 8  
Termination oo... eee eee 8  
Article 4 - Subcontractors Clause - Building ......... 8  
Non-signatory Subcontractors .............. 9  
Venders 9  
Low Responsive 10  
MBE/WBE Subcontractors 10  
Subcontractors Clause - Heavy Highway ....... 1  
MBE-WBE Subcontractors ............... 12  
Non-Signatory Subcontractor [2  
Venders oo. eee eee 12  
Article 5 - Union Recognition and Hiring ........... 13  
Unlawful 13  
Government Requirements ............... 14  
Harassment (Paragraph C) 14  
Out of work list 2.0.02. 00.0 15  
Evaluation Referral List 17  
Composite Crew ee 18  
Pre-Job Conference 18  
Transfer of Foremen and  
Specialty Workers (Key Personnel} 19  
Table of Contents (Continued)  
Articie § - Union Recognition and Hiring (continued)  
Non-payment of Dues 19  
Workers Qualifications 20  
Separation Slips 20  
Article 6 - Working Conditions 21  
Hours of Work-Overtime 21  
Single Shift - Heavy Highway ............ 2!  
Single Shift - Building 2!  
Work Week ees 21  
Federally Funded Work - (Overtime) ....... 22  
Special Operations (Overtime) .........-.. 23  
Four-Ten Hour Shifts 008 23  
Make-Up Day 23  
Two Shift Operations 24  
Three Shifl Operations 24  
Lunch Period eee eee ees 25  
Holidays ec 26  
Emergency Work - (Overtime) 27  
Article 7 - Miscellaneous Provisions ............... 27  
Repair or Adjustment of Equipment ........ 27  
on erence re hen nha tae 28  
ProtesUClaim 00 eee ee ees 29  
Crew Size/Number of Employees .......... 30  
Health and Safety eee 30  
nn ene eae eee 30  
First Aid Kits 0... ce ec ee ee 3}  
Transportation 2. eee  
Drug and Alcohol Testing 34  
Stewards ce ees 33  
Tools oo ce ee eens 35  
Certifications ce eee ee 37  
Table of Contents (Continued)  
Article 8 - Immigration Reform and Control Act  
### (IRCA) Requirements, Reporting Pay, Minimum  
Pay and Standby 38  
Immigration Reform and Control Act  
(IRCA) 38  
Reporting Expense ..................... 38  
Mintmum Pay 39  
Rain Sensitive Work - (Stand-by) .......... 39  
Article 9 - Classification and Wage Scales 40  
### Old Work Protection .................... 40  
Monetary Increases.............,....... 40  
Distribution of Monies .................. 4]  
Article 10 - Non-Recurring Work 4]  
Article 11 - Government Requirements ............ 42  
Article 12 - Apprenticeship and Training 43  
Special Training for Journeymen .......... 50  
Foreman Training ee ee eee  
Premium for Si  
Article 13 - Investigation by  
### Union Business Representative 5t  
Article 14 - Settlement of Disputes -  
Strikes and Lockouts $2  
Jurisdictional Disputes 52  
Non-Jurisdictional Disputes ...........__. 53  
53  
Article 15 - Health-Welfare and Dental 57  
Article 16-Pension 58  
   
Table of Contents (Continued)  
Articte 17 - Trustee Qualification Criteria ......-..--. 60  
Article 18 - Vacation ©. ee eee 61  
Article 19 - Training Fund 62  
Article 20 - Regional Council Deduction .........--. 63  
Article 21 - Special Agreements 64  
Memorandum of Understanding .........-- 65  
Article 22 - Reciprocal Guarantee 67  
Article 23 - Ancillary Employer Funds .......--.--- 66  
Prevailing Wage Enforcement (PWLE) .....- 66  
Contract Administration Fund (CAF) .....-. 66  
Article 24 - Agreement all Inclusive 67  
Article 25 - Saving Clause ree 68  
National Health eee ee 68  
Article 26 - Labor Management Board .........---- 69  
Addendum 69  
Joint Safety 69  
Competitive 69  
Article 27 - Apprenticeship - Fringe Benefits ........ 7  
### Article 28 - Apprenticeship Percentage Rates,.......72  
### Article 29 - Public Works Project  
Davis Bacon Act ee erect tts 73  
### CLASSIFICATION  
Carpenters eee 74  
76  
   
Table af Contents (Continued)  
Piledrivers 2.0... cee eee 76  
Article 30 - Zone Pay Differential - References ...... 77  
Mileage and Rates 78  
Computation cee $1  
Bridge and Ferry Toll Fees ............... 82  
Job Site Transportation .................-. 82  
CAMPS 20. eee eee 83  
Article 31 Millwright - Special Provisions .......... 83  
Character of Work -  
Millwrights and Machinery Erectors ........ 83  
Special Provision 34  
Dispatch eee 84  
Zone Pay ees 84  
ee eee 85  
“Must Carry” Tool 86  
Article 32 - Piledrivers - Special Provisions ......... 88  
### Special Provisions 88  
oj tg gg et ge ape, ed pia 88  
Character of Work 88  
Marine Piledriver 94  
Tidework or Broken Shift 95  
Article 33 - Divers and Divers’ Tenders ............ 95  
Purpose of Article 96  
Hourly Wage . 97  
Transportation Allowance ................ 98  
Depth 100  
Decompression id!  
Article 34 - Divers’ Tenders 102  
Article 35 - Diving 104  
Table of Contents (Continued)  
Article 36 - Guarantee of Authority ..........+--- 106  
### Schedule A - Wage & Fringe Schedules ......----- 107  
Oregon/SW Washington  
6/01/02 - O5/91/03 eee 108  
Oregon/SW Washington  
06/01/03 - 05/31/04 eee 110  
Oregon/SW Washington  
06/01/04 - 05/31/05 eee 112  
Oregon/SW Washington  
06/01/05 - eee 114  
Schedule B - List of Signatory Contractors ....... 116  
Schedule C 00... 117  
List of Local Unions 117  
Trust Fund Administrators 120  
Separation Slip 121  
vi  
Preamble  
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into as of the  
Ist day of June, 2002 for the period June 1, 2002 to  
May 31, 2006 by and between certain members of the  
Oregon Columbia Chapter of the Association General  
Contractors of Amertca, Inc. (AGC), whose names are  
set forth in Schedule "B". and referred to as the  
Employer or Contractor.  
and  
The Pacific Northwest Regional Council of the United  
brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, for  
themselves on behalf of the local unions whose names  
are set forth in Schedule "C" or any supplement there-  
to, and hereinafter referred to as the "Union".  
For purposes of this Agreement, the Assoctated  
General Contractors is not acting as a multi-employer  
bargaining agent in a single multi-employer unit, but is  
acting for and on behalf of the Employers who have  
individually requested the Associated General  
Contractors to act as their tndividual and separate bar-  
gaining agent in indivtdual Employer units.  
The Agreement constitutes a continuation and exten-  
sion of the contractual relationship heretofore existing  
between the Contractor. the AGC, and the Union as  
evidenced by prior Jabor agreements between the AGC  
and the Union.  
Definitions  
A_Association: The term Association as used herein  
shall mean the Associated General Contractors of  
America, Inc., Oregon-Columbia Chapter. A list of  
members is set forth in Schedule "B” or any supple-  
ments thereto.  
B, Employer: The term Employer as used herein shall  
mean any individual, partnership, firm or corporation  
signatory, or who becomes signatory, to this Labor  
Agreement.  
C._ Union: The term Union as used herein shall mean  
the Pacific Northwest Regional Council of the United  
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America,  
acting for all of their Local Unions, as set forth on  
Schedule "C" attached hereto.  
D. Employee: The term employee, workman and jour-  
neyman as used herein, shall mean any person without  
regard to age, race, creed, color, sex or  
national origin whose work for an Employer in the  
area covered by this Agreement falls within the recog~  
nized jurisdiction of the union,  
FE. Journeyman: The term journeyman as used herein,  
shall mean any person who became a Journeyman  
member of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and  
Joiners of America prior to June I, 1980; or who  
attained journeyman standing thereafter outside this  
bargaining unit; or, who qualified as a journeyman  
thereafter in accordance with the procedures set forth  
in Article 11 herein.  
F. Apprentice: The term apprentice, as used herein,  
shall mean any person who ts actively enrolled in a  
State-approved joint apprenticeship program designed  
io achieve off-site proficiency and on-site productivity  
SO aS tO permit a person to meet the minimum uniform  
competency standards of a qualified Journeyman car-  
penter.  
G. Equal Rights: In recognition of the equal rights  
laws for both sexes and in recognition of the fact that  
women are becoming more involved in construction,  
any masculine pronoun or any reference in masculine  
gender herein shall be construed to include either male  
or female. This Agreement acknowledges the oppar-  
tunities and rights of qualified women and men alike  
io function in crew and supervision positions of the  
trade.  
H. Compentency: The term competency as used here-  
in, shaJ] mean proven proficiency and productivity  
sufficient to meet the minimum standards of a  
Journeyman or applicable level Apprentice.  
   
Purposes Of This Agreement  
The parties to this Agreement recognize their long  
association in collective bargaining. We believe con-  
struction by the union team of contractors, journey-  
men, apprentices produces the best product at the best  
cost for the owner.  
Historically, the purpose of this Agreement has been to  
promote the settlement of labor disagreements by con-  
ference, to prevent strikes and lockouts and to prevent  
avoidable delays and expense. Both parties pledge to  
continue these efforts and purposes.  
Effective with this Agreement, the parties shall imple-  
ment and maintain a program for journeyman and  
apprenticeship training so as to ensure an adequate  
supply of qualified workers. Said training program for  
Journeymen shall encompass special emphasis on skill  
improvement and safety procedures.  
Furthermore, the parties pledge to institute a coopera-  
tive labor-management task force, which shall develop  
guidelines for implementation by the training trust.  
Furthermore, the parties pledge to institute a coopera-  
tive labor-management task force, which continuously  
seeks means and methods of assuring our union team's  
competitive position in the marketplace.  
Each party shall, on June |, 2002 appoint three (3)  
people as the initial appointees of this task force.  
4  
   
These individuals will work under the pre-  
scribed in Article 26 - Labor Management Board.  
Article 1  
### Territory  
This Agreement shall cover the entire State of Oregon,  
and the following area in the State of Washington: The  
counties 'of Klickétat, Skamania, Clark, Cowlitz,  
and that portion of Pacific County south  
of a straight line made by extending the north bound-  
ary line of Wahkiakum County west to Willapa Bay to  
the Pacific Ocean, and thence north through the natur-  
al waterway to the Pacific Ocean. (This will include  
the entire peninsula west of Willapa Bay.) The  
Agreement shall also apply to Lewis County for  
Piledrivers only.  
| Article 2  
### ' Work Affected  
Section 2.1. This Agreement shall govern all types of.  
construction work coming within the jurisdiction of  
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of  
America as recognized by the AFL-CIO Building and  
Construction Trades Department.  
{  
Section 2.2. (A) To clarify the scope of this Labor  
Agreement, and to thereby avoid future misunder-  
Standings, utilities, highway and heavy construction  
5  
work is defined as including, but not limited to the fol-  
lowing: construction and reconstruction of roads,  
streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, guard rails,  
fences, parkways, parking area, athletic fields, air-  
ports, railroads, street railways, bridges, overpasses,  
underpasses, grade separations, grade crossings, track  
elevations, elevated highways, sewers, water mains,  
foundations, piledriving, sanitation projects, irrigation  
projects, flood control projects, reclamation projects.  
reservoirs, dams, dikes. levees, revetments, channels,  
aqueducts, channel cutoffs, jetties, breakwaters, harbor  
developments, docks, piers, abutments, retaining  
walls, transmission lines, pipelines, duct lines, sub-  
ways, shafts, tunnels, excavation of earth and rock,  
clearing and grubbing, fand leveling, quarrying, indus-  
trial plant construction other than building construc-  
tion as defined below: including operation, mainte-  
nance and repair of land and floating plant equipment  
vehicles and other facilities used in connection with  
the described work and service, and al! other work of  
similar nature.  
(B) Building construction work shall cover, but not be  
limited to, the construction of residential, commercial  
or industrial structures, and the on-site work necessary  
for assembly, erection and installation of facilities and  
equipment in or on such structures, including any and  
all modifications, additions and repairs thereto.  
(C) It is hereby agreed ‘when a contractor signatory to  
this Agreement performs the following defined resi-  
dential work, it shall be performed in accordance with  
the terms and conditions of the applicable current area  
6  
residential agreement. Residential construction is  
defined as all work in connection with construction,  
alteration and/or repair of all units such as  
single dwellings, duplexes, row houses, town houses  
and apartments not to exceed four (4) stories in height  
including a basement.  
(D) It is mutually understood and agreed that this  
Section 2 becomes null and void immediately upon the  
Association effecting the deletion of similar work def-  
initions from all other labor agreements negotiated by  
the Association.  
Section 2.3. The terms of this Agreement shail also  
apply to that work performed at temporary facilities,  
such as fabrication yards and/or assembly plants tocat-  
ed at or adjacent to the construction site, which are  
integrated with and set up for, the purpose of servicing  
the construction project or projects; rather than to  
serve the public generally.  
Section 2.4. Craft jurisdiction is neither determined  
nor awarded by classification or scope of work cover-  
age in any AGC Labor Agreement.  
Section 2.5. SEE Carpenters, Millwrights, Piledrivers  
Schedule "A" for the appropriate wage rates and char-  
acter of work.  
Article 3  
### Effective Date - Duration -  
Modification  
Section 3.1. When executed by the parties hereto, the  
terms and conditions of this Agreement shall become  
effective on June 1, 2002 and shall remain in full force  
and effect through May 31, 2006. The "no strike, no  
lockout" provisions of this Agreement shal! remain in  
full force and effect during the entire four (4) year  
duration of this Agreement. The monetary considera-  
tions, ic. wages, fringe benefits, shall be as set  
forth in Article 9 and Schedule "A" for rates to be  
effective June 1, 2002.  
Section 3.2. Any party hereto desiring termination,  
modification or changes in this Agreement to take  
effect subsequent to May 31, 2006, or to take effect for  
any agreement year subsequent to May 31, 2006, shall  
serve written notice on the other party at interest on or  
before March 1, prior to the end of each such agree-  
ment year, requesting negotiation,  
if no such notice is given, this agreement shall contin-  
ue in full force and effect from year to year.  
Article 4  
### Subcontractors Clause - Building  
Section 4.1.{A) A subcontractor is one who takes over  
any part or a complete section of a general contract,  
8  
‘  
including both the furnishing of materials for and the  
performance of labor on the job, or the performance of  
labor only. No Contractor or joint venture covered by  
the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall sub-  
contract any job site work to a subcontractor or  
employer who is not Signatory to a Carpenter  
Agreement except as provided below. The Contractor  
or joint venture shail be held responsible for the pay-  
ment of Wages, Zone Pay, Pension, Health and  
Welfare, Vacation, Training, Drug Testing, PWLE,  
CAF, and RCD incurred by the subcontractor and shall  
see that the subcontractor adhered to the working con-  
ditions.  
(B) Section 4.1(A) shall not be operative when poten-  
tial union subcontractors are not available or do not  
bid. When a subcontractor is not Signatory to a car-  
penter agreement, there shall be a pre-job conference  
between the Local union, a representative of the  
Regional Council, the Contractor. the subcontractor  
and the Association if affected. The parties will  
attempt to reach agreement regarding this section  
before the subcontractor performs any work on the  
project.  
(C) In order to comply with this Article, the Union  
Shall make available an agreement for the duration of  
the Project or subcontract to cover only the subcon-  
tracted work.  
Section 4.2. A vendor, who makes delivery of materi-  
als, supplies or equipment and who, incidental to or as  
part of the furnishing or delivery of material, supplies,  
9  
   
or equipment, does any work at the job site, shal! be a  
party to a collective bargaining agreement with the  
Regional Council or its signatory local unions, con-  
taining the full terms of this Agreement. In the event  
a vendor is not a party to such an agreement, they shail  
not perform any job site work except that deliveries  
may be made by such vendor to job site.  
Section 4.3. No work will be let by piecework, con-  
tract or lump sum direct with journeymen orf appren-  
tice for labor services.  
Section 4.4. (A) When the low responsive bid trom a  
signatory subcontractor exceeds a non-signatory bid  
by either 5% or $30,000, the contractor shall be  
relieved of Section 4.1(A) of this Article. This section  
applies to the following classifications of work only:  
(drywall/wetwall), insulation, manufactured ceiling  
systems. manufactured wall systems, OF  
### (MBE/WBE/DBE).  
(B) The Employer agrees to limit the use of non-sig-  
natory subcontractors to not more than two (2) per job  
or project. To avai! themselves of this clause the  
General Contractor agrees to notify the respective  
Regional Council of Carpenters within 24 hours, with  
the pertinent bid information, or within 24 hours of  
contractor notification of accepted low bid.  
(C) The contractor shall solicit at least 2 bids from sig-  
natory subcontractors. The Union and Employer shall  
monitor the financial records of payments to the non-  
signatory subcontractor to ensure that the subcontrac-  
10  
tor completes the job at the original bid price. If it is  
discovered that payments in excess of the original bid  
price (excluding change orders) have been made by  
the General Contractor in violation of this section, the  
Genera! Contractor shall be prohibited from using this  
section for the duration of this Agreement.  
Subcontractors Clause - Heavy Highway  
Section 4.5. (A) A subcontractor is one who takes over  
any part or a complete section of a general contract,  
including both the furnishing of materials for and the  
performance of labor on the job, or the performance of  
labor only. No Employer or joint venture covered by  
the terms and conditions of thts Agreement shall sub-  
contract any job-site work to a subcontractor or  
employer who is not signatory to this Labor  
Agreement except as provided below. The Employer  
or joint venture shall be held responsible for the pay-  
ment of Wages, Zone Pay, Pension, Health and  
Welfare, Vacation, Dues Deduction, Training, Drug  
Testing, PWLE and CAF incurred by the subcontrac-  
tor and shall see that subcontractor adheres to the  
working conditions, except as provided below.  
(B) Section 4.5 (A) shall not be operative when poten-  
tial union subcontractors are not available or do not  
bid. When a subcontractor ts not signatory to a labor  
agreement, there shall be a pre-job conference  
between the Loca] Union,a representative of the  
Regional Council, the Contractor, the subcontractor  
and the Association if affected. The parties will  
attempt to reach agreement regarding this section  
11  
before the subcontractor performs any work on the  
project.  
(C) In order to comply with this Article, the Union  
shall make available an agreement for the duration of  
the project or subcontract to cover only the subcon-  
tracted work.  
Section 4.6. In the event an Employer is unable to find  
qualified competitive union MBE-WBE subcontrac-  
tors when the Employer is obligated to satisfy MBE-  
WBE recruiting requirements, the Union and the  
Employer shall waive this article provided the pre-job  
conference referred to in Section 4.5(B) above is utilized.  
Section 4.7. Where the general contractor receives  
bids that show the non-union subcontractor 5% or  
more lower than the union subcontractor, the  
Employer and the Union shall waive this Article. pro-  
vided however the Union and the Employer shall  
review the prices submitted before signing the non-  
signatory subcontractor. Due to the special nature of  
subcontracting in this area, the differential for labor  
subcontracts shall be 10%. Labor subcontracts include  
labor and small tools only; they do not include rentals,  
equipment or materials.  
Section 4.8. A vendor, who makes delivery of materi-  
als, supplies or equipment and who, incidental to or as  
part of the furnishing or delivery of material, supplies,  
or equipment, does any work at the jobsite, shall be a  
party to a collective bargaining agreement with the  
Union, containing the full terms of this Agreement. In  
12  
the event a vendor is not a party to such an agreement,  
they shall not perform any jobsite work except that  
deliveries may be made by such vendor to jobsite.  
Article 5  
### Union Recognition and Hiring  
Section 5.1. In order to maintain employment and pre-  
serve workable tabor relations as well as to insure the  
orderly accomplishments of private and public work,  
the following shal} prevail with respect to the hiring of  
workers.  
Section 5.2, The Association recognizes the Union as  
the sole collective bargaining agent for all workers  
falling within the jurisdiction of this Agreement and  
the Union recognizes the Assaciation as the sole  
Bargaining agent for its members as listed on Schedule  
"B" hereof and supplements thereto.  
Section 5.3. Unlawful Discrimination/Government  
Requirements  
{A) There shali be no unlawful discrimination by the  
Employer or the Union with respect to the hiring,  
tenure or discharge of any workers and any require-  
ment as to membership or non-membership in any  
Union shall be in accordance with the National Labor  
13  
Relations Act as amended and appropriate Executive  
Orders.  
(B) The Employer and the Unton recognize that an  
Employer should not lose jobs because of Government  
requirements which are in conflict with the hiring hall.  
Therefore, when a government contract or  
Government Agency requires a different hiring hall  
arrangement to meet Federal or State requirements, the  
hiring hall arrangement will be modified to meet the  
demands of those requirements. {t is understood that  
the hiring haff arrangement will be followed as close-  
ly as possible without being in conflict with the  
Government requirements.  
The Employer will notify the Union in advance of the  
commencement of the job of the Government require-  
ments, and upon request will provide the Union with a  
copy of pertinent provisions.  
lt is also further understood and agreed that this sec-  
tion is not intended to create jobs where none exist.  
(C) The parties recognize and agree that the discrim!-  
nation against and the harassment of an individual  
because of the individual's gender, race, religion, age,  
national origin or disability is adverse to the interest of  
the Union and Employer. The parties, therefore, joint-  
ly declare such harassment in any form is strictly pro-  
hibited and constitutes grounds for discipline.  
The Union and the Employer shall post this Article at  
all job sites and dispatch points.  
14  
Section 5.4. It is recognized within the construction  
industry that the Union affords the prime source of  
qualifted journeymen and apprentices required to per-  
form the work covered by this Agreement.  
A. All persons seeking employment via the Union  
shall be chronologically entered on the appropriate  
Out-of-Work list as maintained by the Union dispatch  
office.  
B. Out of Work list  
1. Whenever the Employer requires workers to be  
dispatched, he/she shall notify the dispatch office  
having jurisdiction of the project as established  
by the Pacific NW Regional Council of  
Carpenters, see Schedule "C" advising of project  
location, starting ttme, the number of Journeymen  
and Apprentices needed and the skills of each.  
2. The Union will dispatch such workers from this  
list as follows:  
a. To Satisfy the Employer's request for work-  
ers with specified skills. Preference will be  
accorded such workers with the earliest ini-  
tial registration on satd list.  
b. To satisfy the Employer's request for work-  
ers by name provided:  
(1) They are registered on the out-of-work  
list.  
15  
   
(2) The Union has been advised of employ-  
ment prior to such worker being put to  
work.  
(3) The Employer confirms in writing  
his/her request for dispatch to the  
Union within 24 hours (Saturday,  
Sunday, and Holidays excluded) of  
such employment whereupon the  
Union will issue written dispatch.  
(4) Apprentices shall not be requested by  
name or period unless they have been  
in the employ of the Employer in the  
previous twelve (12) months.  
Should the Union be unable to refer qualified  
workers for employment to the Employer within  
94 hours from the time of receiving the  
Employer's request (Saturdays, Sundays and  
Holidays excepted) or at the time mutually agreed  
upon at time of request, or if a fails to  
report to the job site in the agreed time, the  
Employer shall be free to secure the workers from  
any source. The Employer shall notify the dis-  
patch office promptly of the names, social securi-  
ty numbers and the date of hire of such employ-  
ees.  
The Union shall require the removal of employ-  
ees who have not been dispatched in accordance  
with 5.4B above.  
16  
C. Evaluation Referral List  
I,  
Non-members seeking employment via the  
Union and claiming credit for previous experi-  
ence shall be registered on the Evaluation  
Referral List. ,  
The Union shall refer these individuals to the  
JATC for evaluation in accordance with proce-  
dures set forth in Article 12 herein.  
The JATC shail evaluate the individual as:  
(a) A Journeyman, or  
(b) An apprentice at an assigned competency  
level,  
If the individual is evaluated as a journeyman:  
(a) He/she shal! submit the evaluation to the  
Union.  
(b) The Union shall place him/her on the out-of-  
work list.  
(c) Dispatch eligibility shall be as per Section  
5.4.B, above.  
If the individual is evaluated as an apprentice,  
he/she shal! be processed in accordance with the  
Oregon and/or Southwest Washington  
Construction Carpenter Selection Procedure of  
Article 12 herein.  
17  
6. Non-members seeking employment via the  
Union and claiming no credit for previous expe-  
rience shall be processed in accordance with the  
Oregon and/or Southwest Washington  
Construction Carpenter Selection Procedure.  
Section 5.5. (A) Composite Crew.  
Employers may establish for a project or job a crew or  
crews known as a "composite" which shall consist of  
the required crafts in such proportions as are respec-  
tive to the type of work to be performed. In perform-  
ing its work, the “composite crew" shal! be allowed  
relaxation from strict craft jurisdiction. provided the  
employees from each craft are assigned to their craft's  
jurisdiction as far as practical and possible, but not  
with the provision of this Agreement.  
(B) The aforementioned provision shall first be  
arranged at a pre-job conference or subsequent meet-  
ings of the Employer and crafts involved. Any dis-  
agreement over this provision may be appealed to the  
chief representatives of the respective signatory crafts  
and AGC.  
Section 5.6. Pre-Job Conference.  
A pre-job conference shall be held whenever so  
requested by the union or employer to discuss the  
Employer's Labor Requirements, the type of work,  
duration of the project, who the known sub-contractors  
are, if any, to whom the contractor will subcontract  
any work covered by this agreement and arrange for  
the orderly placement of workers on the project. This  
18  
pre-job conference shall be held in the locality of the  
Job site or at some other mutually agreed location. The  
union shall be notified in writing of any subcontractor  
not known at the pre-job conference at least five (5)  
days prior to the subcontractor Starting work.  
Section 5.7. Transfer of Foremen/Specialty Workers  
(a) The union shall not impose any restrictions on the  
transfer of a reasonable number of workers. Such  
agreed upon workers shall present themselves to  
the Local Union having jurisdiction for proper  
dispatch before going to work.  
(b) Non-members may not be requested as foreman.  
Section 5.8. The union having qualified as required by  
Section 8{a)(3) of the National Labor Relations Act as  
amended, the following provisions shall be effective:  
All workers employed by the Employer to perform  
work within the properly determined craft jurisdiction  
of the Union involved shall become members of such  
Union not later than the 8th day following the begin-  
ning of such employment, or since the inception of this  
Agreement, and thereafter shall maintain membership  
in good standing in said Union as a condition of  
employment, subject, however, to the provisions of  
Sections 5.9 and 5.10 of this Article.  
Section 5.9. The Union accepts all obligations for the  
continued membership of its: members as provided in  
Section 5.8 of this Article and for the collection of  
19  
their initiation fees and dues. The Union shall have the  
right to require the removal of for failure to  
pay or tender initiation fees and dues as required by  
this Agreement. There shall be no stoppage or slow-  
up of work because of disciplinary action on the part  
of the Union.  
Section 5.10. All requests by the union for removal of  
an employee for non-payment of or failure to tender  
initiation fees and dues or for improper dispatch shall  
be made to the employer in writing. The employer  
then agrees to terminate the employee no later than the  
end of the next shift following the employer's receipt  
of the union’s written request for such termination,  
provided the union supplies, upon request, a replace-  
ment within the same period.  
Section 5.11. The Employer shall be the sole judge of  
a worker's qualifications and may discharge any  
employee for cause, which shall be stated on the stan-  
dard separation slip. (See copy attached) Whenever an  
employee is discharged and is not eligible for rehire, it  
shall be so stated on the standard separation slip.  
Section 5.12. A worker who receives three (3) separa-  
tion slips in a twelve (12) month period for lack of  
competency shall be referred for evaluation and coun-  
seling as per Article 12 before re-dispatch. Copy of  
separation slip shall be sent to Local Union having  
jurisdiction and the AGC no later than seven (7) days  
following termination.  
20  
Article 6  
### Working Conditions  
Shifts-Hours of Work-Overtime  
Section 6.1. The official time for the purposes of this  
Agreement shall be applicable legal time.  
Section 6.2, Single Shift:  
Heavy Highway  
Eight (8) hours work per day between the hours of  
5:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and five (5) days per week,  
Monday through Friday, shall be the normal working  
time of all employees covered by this Agreement.  
Starting and quitting times may be expanded by mutu-  
al agreement between the Employer and the Union.  
Building  
Eight (8) hours work per day between the hours of  
6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. and five (5) days per week,  
Monday through Friday, shall be the normal working  
time of all employees covered by this Agreement.  
Starting and quitting times may be expanded by mutu-  
al agreement between the Employer and the Union.  
Section 6.3.(A) Workweek:  
The workweek shall be forty (40) hours, Monday  
through Friday, and the workday shall not exceed eight  
(8) hours per day.  
21  
1. All time worked in excess of the eight (8) hours  
(but not more than 12 hours) of continuous shift  
work shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-  
half (1-1/2x).  
2. Work performed on Saturdays shall be paid for at  
the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2x),  
3. All hours worked after twelve (12) hours contin-  
uous shift work (including Saturdays) shall be  
paid for at the rate of two (2) times the proper  
hourly rate of pay.  
4. Sunday and Holiday work shall be paid for at the  
rate of double time (2.0x).  
(B) Minimum Time Between Shifts.  
When an employee has worked the regular shift and  
then is required by the employer to work at the over-  
time rate, the employee shall not go to work again for  
the regular rate until the employee is relieved for a  
period of at least eight (8) hours.  
(C) On work that is entirely federally funded, the work  
shall be forty (40) hours Monday through Friday. All  
work in excess of forty (40) hours in one (1) week or  
ten (10) hours in one day shall be paid for at the rate of  
time and one-half (1-1/2x). The contractor shall not  
employ a second crew to circumvent overtime pay  
after forty (40) hours. This shall not prohibit the  
employer and the union from negotiating a “rolling”  
four ten-hour shifts on a project by project basis.  
22  
(D) Special Operations - On operations such as green  
Sawing, de-watering, curing and protection of con-  
all overtime pay Shall be time and one-half {14  
x}, including Sundays and Holidays.  
_{E) Overtime pay invalved in the protection and dry-  
ing of material to facilitate the continuation of work  
shall be at time and one-half (14 x), including  
Sundays and Holidays.  
(F) Four-Ten Hour Shifts - Notwithstanding the  
above, the employer may, at his/her option, establish  
ten (10) hour shifts for a of any four con-  
secutive scheduled work days, Monday through  
Thursday, on some or all operations on a project, with-  
out being required to pay overtime. Anything over ten  
(10) hours shall be subject to the provisions above.  
Failure to work the four (4) day minimum shall require  
overtime unless such failure is caused by actual  
inclement weather, holiday or other conditions defi-  
nitely beyond the control of the employer.  
(G) Four ten (10) hour shifts at the straight time rate  
may be established Monday through Thursday. In the  
event the job is down due to weather conditions,  
equipment breakdown, or other conditions beyond the  
control of the employer then, Friday on a voluntary  
basis may be worked as a make-up day at the straight  
time pay. Make-up day applies to the crew so affected.  
(H) Five Eight (8) Hour Shifts - In the event the job is  
down due to equipment breakdown or weather condi-  
tions, Monday through Friday, then Saturday on a vol-  
23  
untary basis may be worked as a make-up day at the  
straight time rate.  
Section 6.4. Two Shift Operations:  
On a two daylight and consecutive shift operation, no  
shift penalty is involved for work performed in either  
of these two shifts. Each shift must be scheduled for  
at least eight (8) hours except as provided for in the  
Reporting Pay/Minimum Pay requirements of this  
Agreement.  
Section 6.5. Three Shift Operations:  
(A) On all three-shift operations. the first or day shift  
shall be eight (8) hours of continuous employment,  
except for lunch period, between the hours of 8:00  
a.m, and 4:30 p.m. except that an earlier starting time  
may be established by mutual agreement between the  
employer and the Union.  
(B) The second or swing shift shall be seven and one-  
half (7-1/2) hours of continuous employment, except  
for lunch period, and shal! be paid eight (8) hours at  
the regular straight time hourly wage rate.  
(C) The third or graveyard shift shall be seven (7)  
hours of continuous employment, except for Junch  
period, and shal! be paid for at eight (8) hours the reg-  
ular straight time hourly wage rate. {n no event shall  
the regular working hours or different shifts overlap  
nor shall any interval between shifts exceed the rea-  
sonable time necessary to change shifts, and in no  
24  
event shall such interval exceed one hour. Thirty-five  
(35) hours of work, Monday through Friday, shall con-  
Stitute a regular week’s work on all shifts of seven (7)  
hours.  
Section 6.6. The parties hereto mutually agree that, in  
the event serious unemployment conditions should  
warrant, appropriate amendments to the hours of work,  
shifts and other related provisions of this Article may  
be negotiated for the purpose of relieving such unem-  
ployment conditions.  
Section 6.7. Lunch Period/Rest Break:  
(A) A regular junch period of not less than one-half  
(1/2) hour or more than one (1!) hour shall be estab-  
lished within one (1) hour of mid-shift but in no event  
longer than five (5) hours from the beginning of the  
shift. If an employee is required to work more than  
five (5) hours from the beginning of the shift without  
a lunch break, he/she shall be paid a half (1/2) hour at  
the applicable overtime rate and in addition be given  
adequate time to eat his/her lunch. If the employee is  
not given adequate time to eat, he/she shall receive an  
additional half (1/2) hour at the applicable overtime  
ratc. Employees will be given a lunch period after each  
work period of not more than five (5) hours.  
Employees requested and notified of working twelve  
(12) hour shifts will be required to bring a second meal  
and be given adequate paid time to eat such meal.  
(B) In no event shall any shift period or overtime  
exceed five (5) hours between provided meal periods.  
25  
Each provided meal period during overtime hours  
shall be of sufficient duration, (not less than thirty (30)  
minutes), in accordance with the job situation, to allow  
the workers adequate time to secure the meal. If the  
work will not permit leaving the job, the Employer  
shall furnish lunch to the workmen at no cost to them.  
(C) Paid rest periods of ten (10) minutes shall be pro-  
vided during each work period or major part thercof.  
The rest period may not be added to the usual meal  
period or deducted from the beginning or end of the  
work period to reduce the overall length of the total  
work period. The ordinary nature and circumstances  
of construction work may not allow for a fixed regular  
schedule. However, effort shall be made to have the  
rest periods taken approximately in the middle of each  
work period.  
Section 6.8. Holidays:  
(A) Holidays recognized under this Agreement shall  
be as follows:  
* New Year's Day * Memorial Day  
* Fourth of July * Thanksgiving Day  
* Labor Day * Day afier  
* Christmas Da Thanksgiving Day  
y giving  
(B) Should any of these Holidays fall on Sunday, the  
following Monday shall be considered a legal Holiday.  
Should any of these Holidays fall on Saturday the pre-  
vious Friday shall be considered a legal holiday. A  
holiday shall be a twenty-four (24) hour period com-  
26  
mencing with the starting time of the first shift of the  
date of the holiday. No work shall be performed on  
Labor Day except to save life or property.  
(C) Work on any of the Holidays specified herein will  
be paid at double (2.0x) the regular straight time rate  
per hour.  
(D) Should an employee be required to work on  
Presidential Election Day, arrangements shall be made  
to allow him/her ample time to vote. However, the  
Employer will not be required to pay for any time not  
worked.  
Section 6.9. Upon a declaration of an emergency by a  
proper governmental agency and in all other situations  
where the Association and the Union mutually agree  
that an emergency exists, emergency overtime work to  
save life, limb or property shall be paid at time and  
one-half (1-1/2 x) the straight time rate.  
Article 7  
### Miscellaneous Provisions  
Section 7.1. The repair or adjustment of any equip-  
ment or machinery, pursuant to the terms of a guaran-  
tee by the manufacturer thereof or his/her agent or  
employees, will not be subject to this Agreement and  
the unton will not interfere with such employees on  
such exempted work; provided, however, that this does  
not apply to the assembling and erection of machinery  
on and during a construction job prior to completion of  
the erection.  
27  
Section 7.2. Payday:  
(A) Employees shall be paid on the job on payday dur-  
ing working hours at a mutually convenient location.  
Cash or check upon which there is no charge for  
exchange shall be the pay medium. The Employer  
shall include with each weekly payment to the  
employee a separate detailed statement showing the  
name, address of the Employer, hours worked, and the  
itemized withholding deductions made.  
(B) Notwithstanding the above, electronic direct  
deposits may be permitted upon a written, signed and  
dated authorization from the employee.  
(C) Payday shall not be later than Friday of each cur-  
rent week and payment shall be in full for the previ-  
ous pay period. The interval between the end of the  
established pay period and payday shall not exceed  
five (5)working days, provided however, that employ-  
ers who make up payroll! at some distant point may  
extend this interval as necessary to enable them to pre-  
pare the payroll but in no event shall such interval  
exceed one {1} week.  
|. Employees who quit shall be paid not Jater than  
the next regular pay period.  
2. Employees laid off or terminated shall be paid  
immediately. A check mailed the same day  
and/or immediate electronic direct deposit shal!  
be permitted, provided that the employee has  
given clear prior authorization.  
28  
At the time of lay-off or termination, all hours  
worked up to and through the normal work shift  
on day of lay-off or termination shall be paid at  
that time. If it becomes necessary for him/her to  
return at a later date for such payment, such  
employee shall be entitled to the regular wages  
due him/her for each day it became necessary for  
him/her to return or wait for his/her paycheck.  
(a) Employees scheduled for lay-off/termination  
can be paid by mail with the following provi-  
sions. Any hours worked outside the normal work  
shift on date of lay off/termination are paid by  
mail within twenty-four (24) hours (Saturday,  
Sunday and holidays excluded), Checks mailed  
later than twenty-four (24) hours after lay-off will  
be subject to additional pay at regular wages due  
him/her. (Eight (8) hours for each day past due  
based on the postmark cancellation date of the  
payment.)  
(b) Any claim for wages or reporting pay due an  
employee shall be presented in writing to the  
employer by the union within thirty 30) days after  
the particular payday when the error or violation  
occurred. The parties hereto agree that unless  
such claims are presented within the time limit  
herein set out they shall be considered, so far as  
the union is concerned, as having been waived by  
the employee or that they are unjustified, and  
shall accordingly be given no consideration.  
29  
Section 7.3. The number of employees at any time on  
any job, shift or in any employment shall be at the dis-  
cretion of the employer. When any journeyman is  
assigned the responsibility of a foreman for the prose-  
cution of the work, he/she shall receive not less than  
the foreman's rate of pay. Assigned foremen shall issue  
instructions to the workers except in unusual or emer-  
gency situations.  
Section 7.4. Health and Safety:  
(A) The Employer and employees shall comply with  
ali applicable federal and state laws governing health  
and safety. The safety and health standards of applic-  
able state and federal laws are minimum standards and  
are not intended to imply that the Union objects to the  
establishment and imposition by the Employer of addi-  
tional or more stringent rules to protect the health and  
safety of the employees. It shall be the exclusive right  
and responsibility of the Employer to insure comphi-  
ance with safety and health standards and rules.  
(B) An adequate supply of pure, cool, clean drinking  
water and sanitary drinking cups shall be kept in close  
proximity to workers at all times. At no time shall  
water bags be permissible.  
(C) Toilets, urinals or latrines of approved types, in  
sufficient number and in clean and sanitary condition  
shall be provided on all jobs. Any worker found not  
cooperating in keeping these facilities clean and sani-  
tary shall be subject to discharge. When performing  
work on existing sewage treatment plants or any other  
30  
similar unsanitary work projects, the Employer  
shall provide suitable facilities within reasonable prox-  
Imity to the work for employees to wash and disinfect  
thetr hands prior to their lunch period. Time  
allowances for same shal] not exceed five minutes,  
unless additional time ts deemed necessary by super-  
vision.  
{D) First Atd Kits and other approved emergency  
equipment shall be kept in convenient and easily  
accessible places at all times, and shall be in the charge  
of an accredited First Aid Operator.  
(E) Any transportation furnished by the Employer  
shall afford adequate protection against the elements  
of weather and shall be operated in a safe  
(F) Adequate facilities shall be provided within a rea-  
sonable time for the employees in which to dry their  
clothes and eat their lunches. Same shall be equipped  
with adequate heat. The storage of supplies or equip-  
ment shall not interfere with the use of these facilittes  
as provided herein.  
Section 7.5. Drug and Testing:  
(A) Labor and Management agree that it is in the best  
interests of all to promote an alcohol and drug-free  
working environment and pledge both to work within  
their own areas of influence and to cooperate to that  
end.  
(B) The employer has the right to screen employees  
31  
for alcohol and drugs as a condition of employment, as  
long as the above ts in compliance with state and fed-  
eral laws.  
C) The parties wil! appoint representatives to the  
Construction Industry Drug-Free Workplace Program  
(DFW) Trust as provided in the Trust summary plan  
description for joint Labor/Management administra-  
tion of the program. ‘Testing will be in accordance  
with the DFW program. All testing will be paid by  
employer contributions to the DFW Trust. If test  
results are negative, the member will be paid $50.00  
by the program and will be issued a Drug Card. This  
expenditure is not for time worked, but for the unde-  
termined amount of expense by the member.  
(D) Except as provided in section (E) and (fF). all  
employers signatory to this agreement, including  
employers who sign compliance agreements with the  
union, Shall participate in the DFW and be required to  
pay the hourly contribution determined by the mutual  
agreement of the parties.  
{E) Notwithstanding section (D), a signatory contrac-  
tor may opt out of the program and not pay the contri-  
bution if:  
1. It covers its employees within its Department of  
Transportation approved program or  
2. Implements a drug and alcohol testing and treat-  
ment program which the DFW Trust has certified  
as meeting or exceeding the DFW program.  
32  
(F) Additionally, a signatory contractor who does not  
meet the section (E) exception, may choose to not par-  
ticipate in the program. However, such contractors  
must still make the contribution set forth in section  
(D).  
G) If an employer opts out of the DFW program under  
section (E) or (F), prospective emnployee/members  
Who test negative for any required drug and alcohol  
test will be reimbursed Fifty Dollars ($50.00) for tak-  
ing such test. This expenditure is not for time worked,  
but for the undetermined amount of expense by the  
prospective employee/member. For existing employ-  
ees who test negative for any such required drug and  
alcohol test, the employee will be paid his/her sched-  
uled hourly wage rate and fringes for the time required  
to take the test.  
Section 7.6. Stewards:  
(A) There shall be a steward on the job at all times  
while the work of the Brotherhood is being performed,  
except tn the event a crew or portion thereof is  
required by the Employer to perform overtime work,  
then the steward shall be required only if he/she was  
performing the work which will continue into over-  
time. This method of selecting overtime workers shall  
not be considered discriminatory. The job Steward  
shal] not initiate any physical altercation with any per-  
son on the jobsite or he/she shall be subject to imme-  
diate dismissal.  
33  
(B) The steward shall:  
{. Bea working journeyman appointed in writing.  
by and at the discretion of the business represen-  
tative of the Union.  
2. In addition to his/her work as a journeyman, be  
permitted to perform during working hours such  
of his/her union duties as cannot be performed at  
other times.  
(C) His/her official duties as a steward shall be limited  
to:  
1. Securing the weekly Steward Report.  
2. Pick up the tools for a sick or injured person and  
notify the Loca! Union and/or Regional Council  
Representative.  
3. Transmit to the business representative all com-  
plaints and grievances emanating from the job.  
(D) st being expressly understood and agreed that a  
steward's duties shall not include any matters relating  
to referral, hiring or termination or disciplining of  
employees. That he/she shall not in any way obligate  
the Union or business representative in any matter of  
policy, interpretation of Labor Relations Agreements  
or in any other prerogatives usually assigned to the  
business representative.  
(E) In no event shall an employer or the Union dis-  
34  
criminate against the steward, nor will the employer  
discharge him/her on account of any action taken by  
him/her in the proper performance of his/her union  
duties. If in the opinion of the employer, the steward  
IS Not operating within the scope of this Agreement or  
that he/she is exceeding his/her authority, the employ-  
er shall notify the business representative who shall  
correct the matter.  
(F) The steward shall not be discharged or transferred  
for actions taken in the proper performance of the  
steward's duties. The employer will notify the Union  
and be willing to confer with the Business  
Representative at least 24 hours prior to terminating  
the steward. If a steward is terminated, the Business  
Representative may appoint another steward from the  
remaining crew and shall advise the employer.  
Section 7.7. Tools:  
(A) All employees shall have tools sharp and in good  
condition upon going to the job, and unless the  
employer employs a saw-filer, the employer shall have  
employees' saws filed at no cost to the employee. No  
employee shall be required to take his/her saws off the  
job for filing.  
(B) No employee shall be permitted to take upon any  
Job, loan, rent or otherwise furnish any optical instru-  
ments, patented miter box, clamp (except saw clamp),  
ladder, saw horse or any power tool. The foreman  
shall be responsible for the proof of ownership of all  
power equipment and other items mentioned in this  
35  
paragraph. The employer shall furnish expendable  
tools such as taps, drifls, files, hacksaw blades, special  
hand cleaners and solvents, welding gloves, standard  
welder hood and glasses. It is the responsibility of the  
employees to return such items to the employer in like  
condition less normal wear and tear.  
(C) The employer shal} furnish a suitable place for the  
safekeeping the employees’ tools and work clothes.  
When they are so stored the Employer shall be liable  
for loss of tools and/or work clothes due to forced  
entry, flood or fire. He/she also shall be liable for acci-  
dental damage to worker's tools caused by movement  
of employer's equipment when such situation is  
beyond the employee's control. Any claim for such  
loss must be itemized in writing, certified to by his/her  
foreman and submitted within five (5)days after such  
loss, The employer shall be permitted seven (7) days  
after receipt of such claim to effect replacement of  
equal quality. Claims for loss shall be limited to tools  
and clothes necessary for the performance of the  
employees’ work on the project on which the loss  
occurred, provided that the employees have been noli-  
fied of such required tools and clothing.  
(D) When stationary power saws or other stationary  
woodworking machinery are used on the job, they  
must be operated by qualified journeymen or appren-  
tices in accordance with the appropriate apprenticeship  
standards.  
(E) Employees shall be allowed such time as necessary  
to collect, clean, and store tools in the designated place  
36  
before quitting time. Wherever practical the tool  
house shall be placed close to the work.  
Section 7.8. Certifications:  
(A) When an employer requests a certified welder  
(Carpenter, Millwright or Piledriver) such worker shall  
possess and maintain an active Certification Card from  
an Accredited Testing Laboratory certifying that  
he/she has passed an American Welding Society  
(AWS) standard 3 position test within one year of date  
of employment.  
(B) Any worker wishing to become so certified shall |  
be entitled to take such test once a year from any  
Accredited Testing Laboratory and be reimbursed for  
cost of said test from the Oregon-Washington  
Carpenter Apprenticeship Trust Fund provided;  
1. Prior authorization for test received from  
Willamette Carpenter Training Center, Inc.,  
2 Test is passed; no reimbursement will be allowed  
for any test failures,  
3. Receipt of payment for such test submitted to  
Willamette Carpenter Training Center, Inc.  
(C) If any card/certification is needed for any safety  
procedure which requires training outside of the nor-  
mal working hours, the Employer and the Union shall  
meet and determine what compensation is needed.  
37  
(D) Any charges incurred for additional certification  
required by the employer, not listed above, shall be  
paid by the employer. Any time employee spends  
obtaining additional required certifications shall be  
paid at the applicable wage rate.  
(E) When, as a condition of employment, a certified  
welder is required to re-certify at the jobsite, the  
employer shall provide the employee with a copy of  
his or her certification papers.  
Article 8  
### Immigration Reform and Control Act  
(IRCA) requirements, Reporting Pay,  
Minimum Pay and Standby Pay  
Section 8.1. Immigration Reform and Control Act  
(IRCA). Any referral who is unable to qualify for  
employment under the provisions of the IRCA shall  
not be eligible for employment and the attendant ben-  
efits herein.  
Section 8.2. Reporting Expense. When qualified  
workers report for work as directed and for whom no  
work is provided, they shall be paid $40.00 reporting  
expense unless prevented from working by causes not  
under the control of the Employer. It being understood  
that the above reimbursements are for the inconve-  
nience of reporting to the job site and are not to be con-  
strued as wages for work performed and that workers  
entitled to reporting expense shall not be required to  
38  
remain on the job site except as provided below.  
Section 8.3. Minimum Pay.  
(A) Employees who work less than four (4) hours shall  
be paid for four (4) hours and if worked more than four  
(4) hours but less than six (6) hours shall be paid for  
six (6) hours and if worked more than six (6) hours but  
less than eight (8) hours shall be paid for eight (8)  
hours.  
(B) The above shall not apply if the work stoppage is  
due to equipment breakdown or weather conditions  
beyond the control of the employer.  
(C) If an employee leaves or quits of his/her own voli-  
tion, he/she shall be paid for actual time worked at the  
applicable straight or overtime rates. If a new hire is  
put to work and judged by the employer to be unsatis-  
factory, the worker shall be paid only for the actual  
time worked.  
Section 8.4. Stand-By. On rain sensitive such as Dirt  
Work, Slab Work, Asphalt Work or in such cases as  
equipment breakdown, the Employer may request the  
employees to remain on the job for up to two (2) hours  
on a stand-by basis.If not put to work during this two  
hour period, the employee shall receive two hours  
wages plus fringes but shall not receive the $40 report-  
ing expense. If put to work, employees shall receive  
pay for actual hours worked in accordance with the  
minimum pay requirement of this Article.  
39  
Article 9  
### Classification and Wage Scales  
Section 9.1. Old Work Protection.  
(A) All private sector work in progress or bid, which  
was covered by the scope of the previous agreement,  
shall be guaranteed the protection of the appropriate  
wage and fringe benefit rates in effect in the previous  
agreement.  
B. Public Work performed under the provisions of a  
prevailing wage statute shall be administered in accor-  
dance with the Article pertaining to the Public Works  
### Project Davis-Bacon Act.  
(C) All private work in progress at December 1, 2002  
shall be subject to the full monetary increases.  
Section 9.2. Classifications, wage rates, effective  
dates and duration will be in accordance with Schedule  
"A" attached hereto and made a part of this  
Agreement:  
Journeyman:  
Carpenter, Millwright, Piledriver, Drywall, Acoustical  
Apprentice:  
Carpenter, Millwright, Piledriver, Drywall, Acoustical  
Section 9.3. Monetary Increase - in the hourly total  
wage and fringe package increases for the life of this  
40  
four (4) year agreement are effective on the dates indi-  
cated below:  
June |, 2002 - $1.05 per hour for each group, distrib-  
uted with:  
$ .54 per hour to Wages  
$ .25 per hour to Pension  
$ .25 per hour to Health & Welfare  
$ .O! per hour to Training  
June 1, 2003 - $1.10 per hour for each group, distribu-  
tion to be determined.  
June t, 2004 - $1.15 per hour for each group, distribu-  
tion to be determined.  
June |, 2005 - Wage and fringe opener only.  
Section 9.4. Distribution of Monies - The union  
reserves the right 10 move monies within the wage  
package (Wages, RCD) and the benefit package, with-  
out approval of the AGC, so long as no more than fifty  
per cent (50%) of the total monetary increase is allo-  
cated to the benefit package.  
Article 10  
### Non-Recurring Work  
Section 10.1.(A) In times of emergency, necessary  
work ordinarily performed by members of a particular  
craft and involving less than one (1) day's Jabor per  
worker, may be assigned to another craftsman. In such  
41  
cases, wage scales shal! be recognized as applying to  
the classification rather than the worker, and any  
employee performing such work be paid the rate  
for the classification of the work which he/she is  
required to do, provided that under no such conditions  
shall an employee be paid a fower rate than that of the  
classification under which he/she was working imme-  
diately prior to the temporary assignment herein  
referred to. This provision is designed to care for  
emergency situations where workers of the proper  
craft are not available, or because of the short duration  
af the particular work to be done, or the remoteness of  
the job, tt would be impractica! from both the Union's  
and the Employer's standpoint to dispatch the workers  
ordinarily used.  
(B) This Article will only apply in cases where recip-  
rocal conditions are given by other crafts.  
Article il  
### Government Requirements  
Section 11.1. (A) This Agreement and all the terms  
thereof shall be subordinate to every provision in any  
contract which the employer may bid for or enter into  
with any public or quasi-public or governmental body  
for the performance of work covered by this  
Agreement, and the parties hereto agree to conform to  
and abide by any restrictions or requirements regard-  
ing employment contained in such contract.  
(B) The union and the employer pledge their mutual  
42  
cooperation in complying with the Equal Employment  
Opportunity. Regulations supported by appropriate  
Executive Orders and in the development of a program  
of affirmative action.  
(C) Any affirmative action program or its equivalent  
intended to foster equal employment which is mutual-  
ly adopted by or imposed upon the parties signatory  
hereto for an area within the jurisdiction of this  
Agreement shall become an amendment to and super-  
sede this Agreement.  
(D) It is understood that both the employer and the  
union will use every effort to combat and prevent any  
activity or procedure which create a situation detri-  
mental to the labor standards established by this  
Agreement.  
Article 12  
### Apprenticeship and Training  
Section 12.1.(A) Recognizing the need for an ade-  
quate supply of qualified carpenters, the Association  
and Union mutually agree to actively promote, and  
participate in, joint apprenticeship and skill advance-  
ment programs designed to meet this need.  
(B)The Pacific Northwest Regional Council and the  
Association jointly believe that it is of the utmost  
importance to the industry that the current apprentice-  
ship and skill advancement program be utilized to its  
maximum to provide quality training programs for all  
43  
segments and areas of the industry in order to qualify  
and maintain a skilled work force. To that end. the  
Pacific Northwest Regional Council and_ the  
Association agree to the following agenda:  
Section 12.2. Such programs which exist or are devel-  
oped to achieve this end and are supported in whole or  
part from funds derived from this Agreement shall:  
(A) Be jointly administered by equa! representation of  
management, as appointed by the Association, and  
labor, as appointed by the Union.  
(B) Comply with all applicable State and Federal reg-  
ulations governing same.  
(C) Comply with Oregon and/or SW Washington  
Construction Carpenter Selection Procedure.  
(D) Predicate an applicant's entrance into and advance-  
ment in the program solely upon results of evaluation  
procedures designed to reflect the minimum compe-  
tency necessary to satisfactorily perform the require-  
ments of any given level.  
(E) Issue certification of achievement to each person  
satisfactorily completing the program’s uniform com-  
petency standards as established by parties to this  
Agreement.  
Section 12.3. Apprenticeship JATC  
(A) JATC shall have six sets of Standards - Carpenter,  
44  
Exterior/Interior Specialists, Millwrights, Maintenance  
Millwrights, Pile Drivers and Scaffold Erectors.  
(B) Geographic area will include all of the State of  
Oregon and that part of the State of Washington cur-  
rently covered by the OR/SW WA Collective  
Bargaining Agreements.  
(C) One JATC has been established for the entire  
OR/SW WA collective bargaining area. All of the ori g-  
inal JATC's have become Area Sub-Committees and  
have retained their geographic areas, Appointment to  
Area Sub-Committee membership is per  
Labor/Management Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
(D) Labor shall appoint 4 labor members & 4 alternate  
labor members and management shall appoint 4 man-  
agement members and 4 alternate management mem-  
bers to the JATC. Management members will be  
appointed as follows: Associated General Contractors  
one (1) plus one (1) alternate, General Contractors and  
Concrete Association one (1) plus one (1) alternate,  
Wall and Ceiling Association one (1) plus one (1)  
‘ alternate, Member-at-Large one (1) plus one (1) alter-  
nate. appointed by agreement between the three  
Associations. Both the labor and the management  
associations will endeavor to make appointments from  
across the OR/SW WA Collective Bargaining Area.  
(E) Members wiil serve until they resign or are  
replaced by the appointing authority, or in the case of  
the Members-at-Large, removed by agreement of at  
least two of the Associations.  
45  
(F} The Chair and Secretary positions of the JATC wilt  
be rotated on an annual basis between labor and man-  
agement.  
(G) The JATC shal! be responsible for the evaluation  
and selection of ail applicants and apprentices. The  
Area Sub-Committees shall conduct selections, evalu-  
ation and re-rates in accordance with JATC policy,  
subject to the final approval by the JATC.  
(H} The JATC shal} administer the apprenticeship pro-  
gram to maximize its effectiveness throughout the bar-  
gaining area in accordance with applicable laws and  
regulations. The JATC shal! utilize area and specific  
discipline subcommittees fo carry out certain of its  
responsibilities.  
Section !2.4. Apprentices  
{A) Apprentices shall be indentured to the JATC but  
will be under the supervision and direction of the Area  
Sub-Committee to which the apprentice applied and  
was accepted.  
(B) Apprentices shal] work in the trade to which they  
are indentured and may work for any approved  
Training Agent throughout the OR/SW WA Collective  
Bargaining Area.  
(C) Apprentices may request transfer from one Area  
Sub-Committee to another as allowed in the JATC  
Policy & Procedure. This would be an “in house trans-  
fer" and would not require re-registration with the  
46  
   
State of Oregon or Washington.  
Section 12.5. Training Agents  
(A) All contractors signatory to a local area collective  
bargaining agreement with the United Brotherhood of  
Carpenters in this bargaining area are recognized  
Training Agents throughout the OR/SW WA  
Collective Bargaining Area unless determined other-  
wise by the JATC.  
(B) The employer shall take all steps necessary to see  
that each apprentice works under and with competent  
journeymen in the occupation for which the apprentice  
is being trained and is assigned to working and learn-  
ing tasks so that the apprentice masters the on-the-job  
training and related instruction.  
(C) The employer must comply with the provision of  
these standards and any agreement applicable to the  
sponsor's program. The employer, on forms approved  
by the Oregon State Joint Apprenticeship and Training  
Council, must make regular reports to the appropriate  
apprenticeship committee.  
(D) The JATC shall have the authority to determine  
whether the contractor is in compliance with the rules  
and regulations for the operation of the apprenticeship  
committee. Should the committee determine that the  
contractor is not in compliance with the apprenticeship  
regulations and in the event that the committee termi-  
nates or suspends the employer's training agent status,  
the employer shall no longer be eligible to train regis-  
tered apprentices. Termination of training agent status  
47  
pursuant to this provision shall not affect the remain-  
der of this agreement and all other provistons shall  
remain in full force and effect.  
Section 12.6. A contractor shal! employ at least one (1)  
apprentice on any job site on which five (3) or more  
journeymen are employed and at least the equivalent  
of one (1) apprentice for every five (5) journeymen in  
his/her total work force. The Joint Apprenticeship and  
Training Committee (JATC) shall permit enrollment  
sufficient to satisfy this minimum ratio,  
Section 12.7. Apprentices shall be removed from the  
job, for just cause, by the employer, upon receipt of  
written notification from the Apprenticeship  
Committee (JATC),  
Section 12.8. Apprentice wage and fringe benefits  
shall be provided in accordance with the attached  
Schedule ‘A’ at the appropriate apprentice classifica-  
tion rate.  
Section 12.9, Programs which exist and/or are devel-  
oped to achieve training, shall be expanded to provide  
competency evaluation. Properly qualified workers  
will be dispatched by the Union in accordance with  
Article 5.4.B. of the Agreement.  
(A) All applicants, unless evaluated prior to placement  
on a job, may only be dispatched as properly registered  
first term apprentices.  
(B) Applicants not claiming prior experience will be  
48  
processed according to the Oregon and/or SW  
Washington Construction Carpenter Selection  
Procedure as herein outlined.  
(C) Applicants claiming prior experience shall be  
scheduled at the next regular evaluation date to deter-  
mine journeyman or assigned apprenticeship compe-  
tency level.  
(1) Those applicants evaluated as journeymen will be  
placed on the out-of-work list.  
(2) Those applicants evaluated as apprentices will be  
assigned the appropriate level of competency and  
processed according to the Oregon and/or SW  
Washington Construction Carpenter Selection  
Procedure.  
Section 12.10. A testing and evaluation procedure for  
applicants claiming prior experience will be developed  
by the JATC for the Area Sub-Committees. The test-  
ing will be administered for the committees by the area  
Carpentry Apprenticeship Coordinators. Using the  
JATC's evaluation procedure, the Area Sub-  
Committees will determine:  
(1) If the individual possesses the minimum compe-  
tency standards of a journeyman or;  
(2) The applicable apprentice competency level of  
the registrant.  
Evaluation results shall be given to the Secretary of the  
49  
Committee. The Secretary shall advise the local  
union, and the employer of the assigned apprentice  
competency level.  
Section 12.11. Workers admitted to the union as a  
result of organizational effort shall be afforded the  
opportunity of evaluation in accordance with Section  
12.10. above. Such evaluation shall be supplied the  
employer to assist him/her in assigning the competen-  
cy level of his/her employees.  
Section 12.12. Special Needs Journey Level Training  
(A) When the Employer has a need for Needs  
Journey Level Training, consistent with the semi-  
annually published Carpenter Training Program  
schedule of classes, training will be provided at no cost  
to the employer when a sufficient number of employ-  
ees are available for classes. {fa scheduled class Is not  
available to meet the employers needs, the employer  
may request the development of an industry program  
through the respective established JATC, or another  
expedient vehicle if recommended by the Director of  
Training.  
(B) The Association and Union jointly agree to coop-  
erate immediately in the development of a program of  
continuing education for the carpenters workforce.  
Section 12.13. Foreman Training  
(A) Foreman Supervisory Skills. The Association,  
the Union, and the respective training affiliates agree  
50  
   
to commence efforts on journeyman skill advancement  
training programs which focus on foremen's supervi-  
sory skills and responsibilities. These programs will  
be offered throughout the bargaining area with partic-  
ular emphasis in the rural areas.  
(B) Premium for Foreman. An increased foreman’s  
premium of two percent (2%) for a total of ten percent  
(10%) will be provided for:  
(1) Individuals who successfully complete a jointly  
agreed upon Foreman's Training Curriculum and;  
(2) The individual is assigned as a foreman by his/her  
employer.  
Article 13  
### Investigation By Union Business  
Representative  
Section 13.1.4A) The authorized Business  
Representative of any Union affected by this  
Agreement shall have the right to investigate condi-  
tions existing on any job at any reasonable time, upon  
first reporting to the employer or his/her representative  
and presenting properly certified credentials. He/she  
shall not be allowed to unduly interfere with the  
progress of the work.  
(B) Only the Business Representative who has proper:  
credentials from the Union shall be allowed on any job  
51  
to solicit membership in the Union and to collect  
monies from any employee of the employer in accor-  
dance with Article 5 of this Agreement.  
Article 14  
Settlement of Disputes-Strikes and  
Lockouts  
Section 14.1. Jurisdictional Disputes:  
(A) If a jurisdictional dispute arises, it shall first be  
submitted to local business representatives of the  
crafts involved for settlement: and, if no understanding  
or agreement is reached within forty-eight (48) hours,  
it will be referred to the International Unions involved  
for settlement. The Snternational Unions shall be  
requested to meet within forty-eight (48) hours to set-  
tle the dispute and, if no agreement is reached on this  
level within five (5) days, the parties to the dispute  
may extend the period of settlement to another fixed  
date mutually agreed upon. Ali disputes shall be  
processed and determined under the procedural rules  
and regulations of the Plan for the Settlement of  
Jurisdictional Disputes in the Construction Industry  
(June J, 1973). Existing or new International  
Jurisdiction Agreements shall be respected by all par-  
ties. There will be no cessation or stoppage of work  
until "A" has been complied with.  
(B) Should the Oregon-Columbia Chapter, AGC not  
s  
52  
   
become signatory to the Plan for the Settlement of  
Jurisdictional Disputes in the Construction Industry  
(June |, 1973) the disputing parties may immediately  
seek resolution through the National Labor Relations  
Boards and/or courts.  
Section 14.2. Settlement of Non-Jurisdictional  
Disputes  
Grievance Procedure  
In the settlement of disputes arising out of a violation,  
misunderstanding or difference in interpretation of this  
Agreement, the following procedure shall be followed:  
Step 1  
(A) The union, employees or employers having a  
grievance shall present such grievance to the Job  
Steward or Union Representative. The steward or  
union Representative or employee, shal! present such  
grievance to the employer's local representative at the  
job site. Such grievance shall be presented ta the  
employer in writing with a copy of said grievance to  
be filed with the focal Union representative within fif-  
teen (15) calendar days from date of violation to be  
valtd.  
(B) Therefore, no dispute, complaint or grievance shall  
be recognized unless called to the attention of the con-  
tractor or Union in writing within fifteen (15) calendar  
days after alleged vtolation was committed. For dis-  
pute involving wage claims refer to Article 7  
53  
Miscellaneous Provisions, Section 7.2.  
Step Ii  
If no settlement is reached under Step J, the grievance  
shall be then presented, in writing, to the Employer's  
authorized representative at the Employer's office  
headquarters. The office headquarters shall mean the  
Employer's main office which has control for the terri-  
torial jurisdiction of this Agreement. !f the grievance  
is not settled within seventeen (17) calendar days,  
either party may thereafter notify the other party that  
the grievance is moved to Step IIT.  
Step 11]  
(A) If no agreement is reached in Step Hi within sev-  
enteen (17) calendar days, either party may submit the  
grievance in writing to a Joint Adjustment Board com-  
posed of two (2) members selected by the Union, and  
two (2) members selected by the Association. The  
Board members shall not be employees of the Lecal  
Union involved, or the Company involved, Any com-  
plaint, dispute or grievance not submitted in writing,  
requesting a Joint Adjustment Board hearing within  
seventeen (17) calendar days, shall be regarded as  
waived unless the parties otherwise agree in writing.  
(B) The Joint Adjustment Board shall meet within  
twelve (12) calendar days of receipt of such request. A  
decision by a majority of the Joint Adjustment Board  
shall be final and binding on both parties. In the event  
the Joint Adjustment Board fails to render a decision  
54  
a  
   
within twelve (12) calendar days from their first meet-  
ing date, either party may, within twelve (12) calendar  
days give written notice to the other party of arbitra-  
tion. The parties may mutually agree to extend the  
time limits.  
Step IV  
(A) If no settlement is reached under Step II, either  
party may request, in writing, to the arbiter, that the  
grievance be taken to arbitration. The arbiter shall  
hear the grievance within seventeen (17) calendar days  
after receipts of the request, unless it is mutually  
agreed to extend such time limit. The arbiter shall ren-  
der his/her decision within seven (7) calendar days  
after the grievance is heard, unless it is mutually  
agreed to extend such time limit. The arbiter may ren-  
der his/her decision orally within the time limits and  
not be in violation of this clause. However, either  
party may demand a written decision to follow. The  
expenses of the arbitration, excluding attorney's fees,  
shall be borne by the losing party, unless awarded oth-  
erwise by the arbitrator.  
(B)} If the parties are unable to agree upon the impar-  
tial arbitrator within a period of five (5) calendar days,  
then either party may request the Federal Mediation  
and Conciliation Service or the American Arbitration  
Association to submit a list of seven (7) names. If the  
parties cannot agree, then they shall go to the Federal  
Mediation and Conciliation Services. After receipt of  
the names of the seven (7) arbitrators, the parties shall °  
meet and alternate in striking names from the list, with  
35  
the first striking decided by the tossing of a coin. The  
remaining name, after each party has struck three (3)  
names, shall be the impartial arbitrator. The decision  
of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both par-  
ties.  
(C) Arbiter  
1, The jurisdiction of the arbiter shall be confined in  
all cases exclusively to questions involving the  
interpretation and application of existing clauses  
or provisions of this Agreement, therefore, the  
arbitrator shall not have legislative power.  
4. It is further understood and agreed that the  
arbiter’s decision may provide retroactivity not to  
exceed twenty (20) calendar days from the day of  
the written filing of the complaint as set forth in  
Step | of this Article.  
Section 14.3. Should the parties involved fail to com-  
ply with the time limits established in this Article,  
unless mutually agreed to extend such limits, then  
cither party may proceed directly to arbitration on a  
unilateral basis in accordance with Section 14.2.  
Section 14.4. Should the parties involved fail to com-  
ply with the findings within five (5) calendar days  
after written notification of the arbitrator's decision,  
then either party may take such action as it deems nec-  
essary to enforce the findings of the arbitrator and they  
shall not be considered in violation of any part of this  
Agreement.  
56  
Section 14.5. The Union will not recognize an unau-  
thorized picket line. It shall not be a violation of this  
Agreement nor cause for discharge for any employee  
covered by this Agreement to refuse to cross a picket  
line. The union is to notify the Association in writing  
of a sanctioned picket line.  
Section 14.6. It is mutually agreed that there will be  
no strikes or lockouts, or cessation of work, by either  
party, for the duration of this Agreement, and all non-  
Jurisdictional disputes arising under this Agreement  
shail be submitted to the procedures for the settlement  
of disputes as provided for above.  
Article 15  
### Health-Welfare and Dental  
Section 15.1. In addition to the wage scales listed in  
Schedule "A" herein, all persons, parties, firms or cor-  
porations as listed in Schedule "B", or otherwise com-  
ing under the scope of this Agreement, who are, or  
may become signatory parties to this Agreement,  
agree that the existing Health and Welfare Trust fund  
as established January 1, 1956, shall continue in full  
force and effect for the purpose of providing Health-  
Welfare and Dental benefits for all eligible employees  
covered by this Agreement, and shall pay into the  
existing Oregon-Washington Carpenters-Employers  
Health and Weifare Trust Fund: For Health-Welfare  
and Dental the sums per compensable hours listed in  
Schedule "A". Such payments shall be made monthly  
57  
in accordance with the requirements of the Trust  
Agreement and all applicable provisions of the exist-  
ing Trust Agreement shall continue in full force and  
effect. The Fund established by prior contributions  
shall be recognized as a fund held in Trust, and there-  
fore an appropriate depository for the contributions  
referred to herein above.  
Section 15.2. It shall be a violation of this Agreement  
for the Union to allow workers covered by this  
Agreement to work for an Employer who fails, after  
due notice, to make the proper contributions to the  
Health and Welfare Fund in accordance with the pro-  
visions of this Agreement.  
Section 15.3. In the event an Employer fails to make  
the monetary contributions in conformity with this  
Article of the Agreement, the Union is free to take any  
economic action against such Employer it deems nec-  
essary, and such action shall not be considered a viola-  
tion of this Agreement.  
Article 16  
### Pension  
Section 16.1. {n addition to the wage scales listed in  
Schedule "A" herein, all persons, parties, firms or cor-  
porations as listed in Schedule "B", or otherwise com-  
ing under the scope of this Agreement, who are, or  
may become signatory parties to this Agreement,  
agree that the existing Pension Trust Fund as estab-  
58  
lished July 1, 1962, shall continue in full force and  
effect for the purpose of providing Pension benefits for  
all eligible employees covered by this Agreement, and  
shall pay into the existing Oregon-Washington  
Carpenters-Employers Pension Trust Fund the sums  
per compensable hours, listed in Schedule "A". Such  
payments shall be made monthly in accordance with  
the requirements of the Trust Agreement and all  
applicable provisions of the existing Trust Agreement  
shall continue in full force and effect. The Fund estab-  
lished by prior contributions shall be recognized as a  
fund held in trust, and therefore an appropriate depos-  
itory for the contributions referred to herein above.  
Section 16.2. It shall be a violation of this Agreement  
for the Union to allow workers covered by this  
Agreement to work for an employer who fails, after  
due notice, to make the proper contributions to the  
Pension Fund in accordance with the provisions of this  
Agreement.  
Section 16.3. In the event an employer fails to make  
the monetary contributions in conformity with this  
Article of the Agreement, the Union is free to take any  
economic action against such employer it deems nec-  
essary, and such action shall not be considered a viola-  
tion of this Agreement.  
Section 16.4. The employer shall provide for a volun-  
tary deduction on an individual basis and forward to  
the employee's designated individual 401(k) account  
through the administrator of the existing Trust at no  
cost to the employer. Employees shall designate the  
59  
amount to be deducted and that amount shall be shown  
on the dispatch slip. Employees may increase or  
decrease the percentage they contribute or stop their  
contributions to the Plan at any time. To make any of  
these changes, they must submit a new salary reduc-  
tion agreement form to their Local Union and  
Employer at least fourteen (14) days before they want  
the change to be effective. This is a non-matching plan  
and shall not be changed to require Employer contri-  
butions now or in the future.  
Article 17  
### Trustee Qualification Criteria  
Section 17.J. In order to qualify as a Management  
Trustee on any Carpenter Board of Trustees herein  
after designated, a Management Trustee must be a sig-  
natory employer, or full time non-bargaining unit  
employee of the signatory contractor, or a regular offi-  
cer of the employer, who contributes to the respective  
Trust Fund, or a full-time staff person of a signatory  
employer association.  
Section 17.2. The chairmanship of the various Trust  
and sub-committees shall rotate on an annual basis  
between Labor and Management Trustees.  
Section 17.3. For the purpose of this agreement the  
term “signatory employer" shall mean: Any active  
contractor signatory to a Carpenters Master Labor  
Agreement and contributing on compensable hours to  
60  
the Oregon-Washington Carpenters-Employers Trust  
Funds.  
Article 18  
### Vacation Fund  
Section 18.1. In addition to wage scales listed in  
Schedule "A" herein all Employers shall pay into the  
Oregon-Washington Carpenters Vacation Trust Fund  
the sums per compensable hours as listed in Schedule  
"A". Such payments shall be made monthly in accor-  
dance with the requirements of the Trust Agreement.  
Section 18.2. It is further agreed that the trust fund  
established for the purpose of providing vacation shall  
be jointly established and equally administered by  
Trustees from the Union and the Association.  
Section 18.3. It shall be a violation of this Agreement  
for the Union to allow workers covered by this  
Agreement to work for an employer who fails, after  
due notice. to make the proper contributions to the  
Vacation Fund in accordance with the provisions of  
this Agreement.  
Section 18.4. In the event an employer fails to make  
the monetary contributions in conformity with this  
Article of the Agreement, the Union is free to take any  
economic action against such Employer it deems nec-  
essary and such action shall not be considered a viola-  
tion of is Agreement.  
61  
Article 19  
### Training Fund  
Section 19.1.(A) In addition to wage scales listed in  
Schedule "A" all Employers shall pay into the Oregon-  
Washington Carpenters’ Training Trust Fund the sums  
per compensable man-hour as listed in Schedule "A".  
(B) The existing Oregon-Washington Carpenters’  
Training Trust Fund, as established May 1, 1965, shall  
continue in full force and effect, and shall be recog-  
nized as a fund held in trust, and therefore an appro-  
priate depository for the contributions referred to here-  
in above.  
Section 19.2. It is further agreed that the trust fund  
established for the purpose of providing training for  
apprenticeship and journeyman skill advancement  
shall be jointly established and equally administered  
by trustees from the Union and the Association.  
Section 19.3. It shall be a violation of this Agreement  
for the Union to allow workers covered by this  
Agreement to work for an Employer who fails, after  
due notice, to make the proper contributions to the  
Training Fund in accordance with the provisions of  
this Agreement.  
Section 19.4. In the event an employer fails to make  
the monetary contributions in conformity with this  
of the Agreement, the union is free to take any  
economic action against such employer it deems nec-  
62  
essary, and such action shall not be considered a viola-  
tion of this Agreement.  
Article 20  
### Regional Council Deduction  
Section 20.1.(A) Upon presentation of a proper autho-  
rization form executed by the individual employee, the  
Employer agrees to deduct Regional Council deduc-  
tion from taxable wage and remit same to the Regional  
Council in accordance with applicable law, for each  
compensable hour during the life of this Agreement.  
(B) It is understood the employers will remit each  
month this deduction in accordance with this Article  
on the transmittal forms used for fringe benefit contri-  
butions and that the pro rata costs of such forms and  
the collection and accounting thereof will be paid by  
the union to the fringe benefit administrator.  
(C) The authorization forms shall be supplied by the  
union and the employer is under no obligation to solic-  
it employees for authorization.  
(D) The union guarantees that the Regional Council  
Deduction to be deducted shail be the amount applica-  
ble to all members of the Union covered by this  
Agreement as established by the membership through  
their duly elected delegates in accordance with the  
union constitution. The Union guarantees that the  
union fund collected in this manner shall not be used  
as a strike fund against the employers party to this  
63  
Agreement. Should the Union violate either provision  
of this paragraph, this Article shall be null and vord for  
the remaining period this Agreement. The procedure  
shall not be applicable to initiation fees, fines, or read-  
mission fees. The union pledges to notify the  
Association prior to any untlateral change in the allo-  
cated RCD deduction amounts.  
Article 21.  
### Special Agreements  
Section 21.1(A) The union recognizes that there  
exists in the construction market place a strong non-  
Union element in our bargaining area, and agrees to  
meet this threat through the use of Special  
Agreements, and/or job agreements, negotiated by  
mutual consent the parties hereto.  
(B) When conditions warrant such an agreement may  
be used in a specified geographic location(s) and/or for  
all projects within a certain specific and mutually  
agreed upon segment of the construction industry.  
(C) All requests for Special Agreements (and exten-  
sions of same) shall be in writing and the contractor  
agrees to give the Union ample time to  
review the request. When possible, seven (7) days  
notice shall be given to the Carpenter's Unton for their  
approval.  
(D) It is the obligation of the Contractor to check with  
64  
the Office of the Regional Council of Carpenters to  
determine if projects on which they intend to bid are  
covered by such agreements.  
Section 21.2. If the Union negotiates special agree-  
ments for any work covered by this Agreement with  
any other employer or Employer Association, all pro-  
visions of such agreements shall be made available  
and apply to any employer signatory to this Agreement  
for the specific work and specific area covered by such  
special Agreement only.  
A Memorandum of Understanding dated June 1, 1988,  
is incorporated as a supplement to this agreement.  
Article 22  
### Reciprocal Guarantee  
Section 22.1. (A) It is expressly understood by the sig-  
natory parties hereto, that their participation in this  
Agreement is based on the guarantee that they will use  
their best effort to require conformance to the terms  
hereof on all types of construction work covered by  
this Agreement and within the territory as set forth in  
Article 1.  
(B) It shall not be a violation of this Agreement for  
either party to take economic action for non-compli-  
ance with this Article. Any violations of the terms  
herein shall be subject to Article 14.1(A) and 14.1(B).  
65  
Article 23  
### Ancillary Employer Funds  
Section 23.1. Prevailing Wage Law Enforcement  
(PWLE). In addition to wage scales listed in Schedule  
"A" herein, all persons, parties, firms or corporations  
as listed in Schedule "B" or otherwise coming under  
the scope of this Agreement, who are or may become  
signatory to this Agreement agree that the PWLE is in  
effect and shall pay monthly in accordance with the  
applicable Trust Agreement an amount of two cents  
($.02) per compensable hour for the purpose of enfore-  
ing the Federal and State Prevailing Wage Laws.  
Contributions will be made on the same form as other  
Trust payments.  
Section 23.2. (A) Contract Administration Fund.  
Effective June 1, 1991, a Contract Administration  
Fund (CAF) shall be established within AGC by virtue  
of this agreement and shall continue in full force and  
effect during the term of this agreement. Ail employ-  
ers signatory to this Collective Bargaining Agreement,  
or who become signatory, or otherwise come under the  
scope of this agreement, shall contribute the sum of  
three cents (03¢) per hour worked by employees cov-  
ered under this agreement into said fund. An cmploy-  
er shall not be required to contribute more than a total  
of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) in any contract  
year June Ist to May 3lst) to the Fund, but  
amount erroneously paid in excess of said $1,000.00  
yearly maximum shall be deemed to be voluntarily  
paid without right of refund. Contributions will be  
66  
made on the same form as other Trust payments.  
(B) For the purpose of administering this Fund, the  
Individual Employer by becoming signatory to this  
Agreement does hereby designate the Employer  
Trustees to act as his agent in all matters concerning  
said Trust Fund.  
Article 24  
### Agreement All Inclusive  
Section 24.1. Except as herein above and hereinafter  
specifically provided, this Agreement contains all of  
the covenants and agreements between the parties, and  
nothing outside this Agreement not specifically noted  
herein shall modify, amend or add to its terms except  
by mutual agreement between the parties. If situations  
arise during the life of this Agreement which shall  
necessitate modifications, amendments or additions,  
these same shall be arrived at through negotiations and  
mutual agreement, and shall be appended hereto by a  
written supplement.  
Section 24.2. This article shall apply in the event of  
relevant actions by Financial Accounting Standards  
Board (FASB).  
67  
Article 25  
### Saving Clause  
Section 25.1. Should any part or any provision of this  
Agreement be rendered or declared invalid by reason  
of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation, or  
by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction or  
the NLL.R.B.., such invalidation of such part or provi-  
sion of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remain-  
ing parts or provisions hereof, provided, however,  
upon such invalidation, the parties agree to meet with-  
out delay and negotiate such part or provision affected.  
The remaining parts or provisions shall remain in full  
force and effect. If the parties are unable to negotiate  
such change or classification, within thirty (30) days  
(unless extended by mutual consent), either party may,  
after three (3) days written notice to the other, submit  
the matter to Arbitration under Step 1V, of Article  
14.2.B.  
Section 25.2. National Health Care  
(A) In the event of the enactment of National Health  
Care legislation which limits the deductibility of  
employer Health/Welfare contributions, — the  
Association and Union will meet immediately to  
ensure the deductibility to the employer of the full  
compensation package.  
(B) If the method of adjustment cannot be mutually  
agreed upon within 60 days, it will be referred to the  
grievance procedure.  
68  
Article 26  
### Labor Management Board  
Section 26.1. The signatory parties adopt as a part of  
this Agreement any attached addendum's or supple-  
ments negotiated between the Regional Council and  
the Association.  
Section 26.2. Joint Safety Committee:  
A Joint Labor-Management Safety Committee, con-  
sisting of an equal number of employer and employee  
representatives, ts hereby established which shall meet  
periodically to review safety issues and increase safe-  
ty awareness in the construction industry. The  
Committee shall also constitute a Labor/Management  
Committee to meet periodically to discuss safety, as  
well as other matters of mutual concern.  
Section 26.3. Competitive Analysis:  
A. The parties to this agreement recognize the necessi-  
ty of assuring the competitive position of the parties  
within the industry during the term of this Agreement,  
Consistent with that recognition, the parties will con-  
tinually monitor the effectiveness of this Agreement  
relative to specific geographic or market areas.  
B. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph A of  
this Section, the parties agree to establish a  
Competitive Analysis Committee (CAC) which will  
be made of an equal number of labor and management  
63  
representatives not to exceed six (6) individuals.  
C. This committee wil! seek specific market informa-  
tion from volume of local building per-  
mits, signatory contractors, and the respective trust  
fund for the development of geographic and market  
research facts. From such statistics, market goals will  
be established and facts analyzed to calculate what  
adjustments are needed in the economic variables of  
this Agreement. Economic components shall be  
defined as wages, fringe benefits, working conditions,  
special addendum agreements, but shall not be limited  
exclusively to these elements.  
D. Measurable goals for specific markets shall be  
established to increase work opportunities of the sig-  
natory parties during the life of this agreement.  
E. This Committee shall develop procedures to carry  
out the intent of the bargaining parties. This  
Committee shall be established and the parties named  
within fifteen (15) days after the effective date of this  
agreement.  
F. The Regional Council will notify the Competitive  
Analysis Committee (CAC), in writing, of any amend-  
ment, modifications, exceptions or addendum to this  
Agreement which might be negotiated in any area cov-  
ered by this agreement between the Union and  
Individual Employer or group of individual  
Employers.  
70  
Article 27  
### Apprenticeship - Fringe Benefits  
For Apprentices in !ST and 2ND periods the employ-  
er shall pay wages and make contributions for: Health  
& Welfare, Vacation, Regional Council Deduction,  
Training, PWLE. and CAF.  
For Apprentices in 3RD, 4TH, 5TH, 6TH, 7TH and  
8TH periods the employer shall pay wages and make  
contributions for: Health & Welfare, Vacation,  
Pension, Regtonal Council Deduction, training, Drug  
Testing, PWLE and CAF.  
### CARPENTER AND MILLWRIGHT  
Apprenticeship Wage and Contribution Schedule  
### Periods BW H&W VAC PEN RCD TRNG *DT *PWLE *CAF  
1,2 ys xX x >, ae xX X XxX  
3,456,  
7&8 .X xX xX XX X x x x x  
BW = Base Wage  
H&W = Health & Welfare  
VAC = Vacation  
PEN = Pension  
RCD = Regional Council Deduction  
TRNG = Apprenticeship and Training  
*DT Testing  
*PWLE = Prevailing Wage Law Enforcement  
*CAF = Contract Administration Fund  
71  
Special Notes on Apprenticeship Monetary  
Packages:  
1. Apprentice Carpenters and Millwrights in the Ist  
and 2nd periods, when working on any State or  
Federal prevailing wage projects, shal! have their  
Pension Fund contributions (notwithstanding the  
Provisions of Article 16.4) paid directly to the  
Apprentice, as an addition to their base wage.  
2. Carpenters and Millwright Apprentices receive  
fringe benefits as indicated above and Zone Pay  
Differential.  
3, Piledriver Apprentices receives full fringe benefits  
and Zone Pay Differential.  
Article 28  
### Apprenticeship Percentage Rates  
28.1 Percentage is of base wage only. The progressive  
wage rate to be paid the respective Apprentice Is:  
Carpenter and Millwright Apprenticeship Rates  
Ist 50% of Journeyman Wage  
2nd period......--.- =. 58% of Journeyman Wage  
3rd 64% of Journeyman Wage  
4th period 70% of Journeyman Wage  
Sth period 76% of Journeyman Wage  
6th 82% of Journeyman Wage  
7th period 88% of Journeyman Wage  
8th period. ......-.--+- 94% of Journeymen Wage  
Piledriver Apprenticeship Rates  
Ist period............. 60% of Journeyman Wage  
2nd period... 73% of Journeyman Wage  
3rd period. 75% of Journeyman Wage  
4th period. ..........., 80% of Journeyman Wage  
Sth period ............. 83% of Journeyman Wage  
6th 85% of Journeyman Wage  
7th period... 90% of Journeyman Wage  
&th 95% of Journeymen Wage  
28.2 Apprenticeship rates in Addendum agreements:  
When an Apprentice Carpenter, Millwright, Piledriver  
or Drywall Acoustical is used under the attached  
addendum agreements, he/she shal! receive the per-  
centage of the basic rate in the Private Works adden-  
dum,  
Article 29  
### 29.1. Public Works Project Davis Bacon Act and  
Related Statutes ORS 279.348 to 279.361.  
(A) In the event an individual contractor bids a public  
job or project being awarded by a federal, state, coun-  
ty, city or other public entity which is to be performed  
at a predetermined and/or prevailing wage rate estab-  
lished or established by the Secretary or the US.  
Department of Labor (pursuant to Public Law 74-403  
as amended by Public Law 88-349 whose regulations  
are contained in 29 CFR Parts 1,3,5 and 7, and which  
73  
   
determinations are published in The Federal Register).  
or by the commissioner of the Oregon Bureau of Labor  
and industries (pursuant to ORS 279.348 to 279.361).  
or by the Director of the Washington Department of  
Labor (Pursuant to RCW 39.12.010 to RCW  
39.12.900), The predetermined wage and fringe rate  
shal! apply for the duration of this labor agreement  
plus 16 months. The total determined package may be  
reallocated between wages and fringes to reflect the  
current fringe rates in the Master Labor Agreement.  
(B) In the event a Contractor utilizes this Article on a  
job or project, whose duration is longer than the dura-  
tion of this agreement, the Contractor shalt enter into a  
project agreement for the duration of the job or project  
but not to exceed 16 months after the termination of  
this Labor Agreement. The project agreement shall  
incorporate the terms and conditions of this agree-  
ment.  
(C) The employers’ Association and the Union agrec to  
meet as soon as possible if any change is made in the  
present method of determining the prevailing wage  
rates which would be adverse to either party.  
### CLASSIFICATIONS  
### CARPENTERS - GROUP I  
Carpenter, including but not limited to:  
* Acoustical and Drywall  
* Automatic Nailing Machine  
* Form Strippers  
* Caulkers (Boat Construction)  
* Instrument Men  
74  
+ + © & ©  
Manhole Builders  
Placing Precase Shapers  
Riggers, Burners* Saw Filers  
Plastic Matertals and _‘ Fiberglass  
Siding Application - Shingles  
Metal Studs  
Toxic treated wood or steel material - receives  
premium of $.25 per hour, 8 hour minimum.  
### CARPENTERS - GROUP II  
Floor Layers, and Floor Finishers (the laying of  
ail hardwood floors nailed and mastic set, par-  
quet and wood-type tiles, and block floors, the  
sanding and finishing of floors, the preparation  
of old and new floors when the materials men-  
tioned above are to be installed).  
Welders ( receives premium of $.25 per hour  
over Group 1).  
Insulators (fiberglass and similar irritating material).  
Stationary Power Saw (8 hour minimum).  
Working with charred material.  
When a workman wears a facial mask with a  
remote cartridge.  
Working swinging, hanging nonrigid Bosn’'s  
chairs, supported from rope or cable on safety  
belt.  
75  
* Working on the Vertical Hoist Tower  
Construction, pier construction, falsework or  
similar type work over 50° high.  
### CLASSIFICATIONS  
Millwrights - Piledrivers  
### MILLWRIGHTS - GROUP I  
*  
Millwrights and Machine Erectors  
(Journeymen, Riggers and Burners)  
* ‘Toxic treated wood or steel material - receives  
premium of $.25 per hour, 8 hour minimum.  
### MILLWRIGHTS - GROUP II  
* Welders ( receives $.25 per hour over Group !.)  
* Instrument Men  
### PILEDRIVERS - GROUP I  
*  Piledrivers, Bridge, Dock, Wharf Builders  
(working with creosote and other toxic, treated  
wood and steel material, diesel hammer, shall  
receive $.25 per hour premium minimum of 8  
hours. }  
* All workers when working in sheet pile coffer  
dams or cells up to the external water level  
shal! receive a $.15 premium - 8 hour minimum.  
76  
>  
### PILEDRIVERS - GROUP II  
* Boom Men  
* Welders (Welders receive $.25 premium  
above Group ! base.)  
* Working on the Vertical Hoist Tower  
Construction, pier construction, false work or  
Similar type construction over 50! high.  
### PILEDRIVERS - GROUP III  
* — Marine Piledriver Working on Water. Welders  
receive $.25 premium above Group III base,  
NOTE: A Piledriver Foreman can supervise a crew on  
one rig only while such crew is engaged in driving pile.  
Article 30  
### Zone Pay Differential - Reference  
Section 30.1.  
A.The parties to the Agreement recognize that because  
of remoteness of area and other reasons, there is a  
great inequity between the living expenses of an  
employee providing for himself/herself and his/her  
family in the major metropolitan areas and those of an  
employee working in the remote areas within the large  
geographical area of this Agreement, and therefore,  
adopt the following provisions for wage scales.  
77  
(B) All carpenters and millwrights dispatches for  
Washington State counties, Cowlitz, Wahkiakum and  
Pacific shall be from Longview Loca! #1707 and  
milage shall be computed from that point.  
Section 30.2. Zone Pay Differential -  
Mileage and Rates  
Carpenters, Millwrights and Piledrivers  
When an employer specifically transfers an employee,  
zone pay shall be based on the employee's original dis-  
patch point with that employer. This shall not apply to  
employees who voluntarily put themselves on an out  
of work list in another area.  
(A) All jobs or projects located within thirty (30) miles  
of the respective city hall of the cities listed below  
shall receive the basic rate of pay for all classifications  
(Zone A) as listed in Schedule "A".  
(B) All jobs or projects located more than thirty (30)  
miles and less than forty (40) miles from the respective  
city hall of the cities listed below shall receive Zone  
"RB" allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be  
increased by eighty-five cents ($0.85) per hour.  
(C) All jobs or projects located more than forty (40)  
miles and less than fifty (50) miles from the respective  
city hall of the cities listed below shall receive Zone  
"C" allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be  
increased by one dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25)  
per hour.  
78  
(D) All jobs or projects located more than fifty (50)  
miles and less than sixty (60) miles from the respective  
city hall of the cities listed below shall receive Zone  
"D" allowance, The basic rate of pay shall be  
increased by one dollar and seventy cents ($1.70) per  
hour,  
(E) All jobs or projects located more than sixty (60)  
miles and less than seventy (70) miles from the respec-  
tive city hall of the cities listed below shall receive  
Zone "E" allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be  
increased by two dollars ($2.00) per hour,  
(F) All jobs or projects located more than seventy (70)  
miles from the respective city hall of the cities listed  
below shall receive Zone "F" allowance. The basic  
rate of pay shall be increased by three dollars ($3.00)  
per hour.  
(G) All jobs or projects located more than one hundred  
(100) miles from the respective city hall of the cities  
listed below shall receive Zone "G" allowance. The  
basic rate of pay shall be increased by five dollars  
($5.00) per hour. If the employee is required to remain  
overnight, the employer and union shall meet. When  
transportation or overnight accommodations of equal  
or greater value are provided by the employer, the five  
dollar ($5.00) requirement may be waived.  
79  
Section 30.3. (A)  
### CARPENTERS - FOR THE FOLLOWING  
### CITIES:  
Albany Eugene Longview Portland  
Astonia Goldendale Madras Port Orford  
Baker Grants Pass Reedsport  
Bend Hermiston McMinnville Rosebury  
Brookings Hood River Newport Salem  
Bums Klamath Falls Oregon City St. Helens  
Coos Bay LaGrande Ontario The Dalles  
Corvallis Lakeview Pendleton Tillamook  
Vancouver  
30.3. (B)  
### MILLWRIGHTS - FOR THE FOLLOWING  
### CITIES:  
Mutually recognized cities of Local Unions having  
jurisdiction of the work (*) and their transportation  
reference cities are as follows:  
Eugene Medford . Portland(*)  
Vancouver(* ) North Bend The Dalles  
Longview(*)  
(*) Portland (Local #711, phone (503)723-0357)  
(*) Longview (Local #1707, phone (360) 423-5030)  
(*) Vancouver (Local #1715, phone (360) 693-0731)  
80  
30.3. (C)  
### PILEDRIVERS - FOR THE FOLLOWING  
### CITIES:  
Mutually recognized cities of Local Unions having  
jurisdiction of the work (*) and their transportation  
reference cities are as follows:  
Astoria Klamath Falls Roseburg  
Bend Longview Salem  
Eugene Medford The Dalles  
Newport  
(*) Portland (Local #2416, phone (503) 285-6652)  
(*) North Bend/Reedsport (Local #1001, phone (541)  
756-6333)  
Section 30.4. Computation of Zone Pay Differential.  
it is agreed that for the purpose of determining the  
proper wage scale under this Agreement:  
(A) All job or project locations shall be computed  
(determined) on the basis of road miles and in the fol-  
lowing manner. A mileage measurement will start at  
the entrance to the respective city hall, facing the pro-  
ject (if possible), and shal! proceed by the normal route  
(shortest road) to the geographical center on  
highway, railroad, and street construction projects (end  
of measurement). On all the project contracts, the geo-  
graphical center where the major portion of the con-  
struction is located. shall be considered the center of  
the project (end of measurement).  
81  
cj(B) AJl related jobs or projects (such as a crusher's  
location) shall, for the purpose of determining the  
proper pay zone rates, be considered as a part of the  
prime job, with the exception of jetties which, for the  
purpose of this agreement, will have separate locations  
and may, therefore, have a different pay zone for the  
quarry and jetty sites.  
Section 30.5.Bridge and Ferry Toll Fees. The  
Employer agrees to pay toll fees on bridges and ferries  
provided the employee shail furnish receipts for same.  
Receipts shall be turned in weekly.  
Section 30.6. Job site Transportation. Whenever,  
because of remoteness of parking areas, hazardous  
road conditions, or security restrictions, the Employer  
is required to furnish transportation for workers with-  
in the work site to the place of their work and such  
transportation is furnished to the employee without  
cost to him/her, the equipment shal! include seats and  
protection from the elements. Definite pickup and dis-  
charge points shall be determined. The time to leave  
from pickup point shall not exceed thirty (30) minutes  
prior to start of the shift. If there is more than thirty  
(30) minutes of time consumed from work site at the  
end of the shift to the point of pickup, the employee  
shall be paid at the his/her regular wage rate for full  
round-trip time spent in job site travel both before and  
after his/her shift. It shall be the intent of this provision  
that job site travel from pickup point to work site and  
from work-site to pickup point shall be approximately  
equal in time consumed, and it is also the intent that  
the employee will be required to be at the pickup  
82  
points only in sufficient time to reach work site at  
his/her regularly established starting time. The project  
management and the Union will meet to establish any  
special conditions surrounding such manhaul opera-  
tions. If such job site negotiations fail, the procedure  
set forth in this Agreement shall prevail.  
Section 30.7, Camps. Where and when standard camp  
facilities are provided by the Employer at or near the  
job site, cost to the employee shall be decided by  
mutual agreement between the union and employer. It  
is understood an employee will be paid Zone A wages  
if he/she avails himself/herself of a camp facility. Use  
of a camp facility is solely the option of the employee.  
Article 31  
### Millwright - Special Provisions  
Section 31.1. Character of Work -  
Millwright and Machinery Erectors:  
Millwright Work shall be all work recognized as such  
by the Building and Construction Trades Department,  
AFL-CIO, and as found in the definition of a  
Millwright as set forth by the Department of Labor.  
United States of America, in the Directory of  
Occupational Titles, Volume 1, Second Edition, page  
855, or any subsequent editton thereto.  
83  
Section 31.2. Millwrights - Special Provisions  
(A) All requests for dispatch in Oregon and those por-  
tions of Washington and Northern California under the  
geographic jurisdiction of Local Union 711 shal] be  
dispatched through Millwright Local 711,(503)723-  
0357, unless otherwise determined by the Pacific  
Northwest Regional Counci! of Carpenters.For  
Washington Millwrights, dispatch shall be made via  
Local Union #1715, Vancouver, WA (360)693-073 1,  
or Local Union #1707, Longview, WA (360)423-5030,  
see paragraph 31.2.d.1 of these Millwright Special  
Provisions below, unless otherwise determined by the  
Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters.  
(B) The Union agrees that the employer may transfer  
foreman and journeyman millwrights from one Local  
Union's jurisdictional areca to another Local Union's  
jurisdictional area within the area of this bargaining  
agreement. Such agreed upon workers must present  
themselves to the Local Union having jurisdiction and  
be properly dispatched before going to work.  
(C) The appropriate zone pay shall be computed from  
whichever is lesser, the reference city having jurisdic-  
tion of the job or the worker's domicile.  
(D) 1. When the reference city having jurisdiction of  
the job can no longer furnish local qualified mill-  
wrights, additional millwrights will be dispatched  
to the job from other reference cities. These  
workers shall be paid zone pay from the reference  
city nearest their domicile, or from their domicile,  
84  
whichever is lesser.  
2.  
The above paragraph shail not be applicable to  
employers who have an established point of busi-  
ness within Zone "A" of the Millwright’s refer-  
ence cities.  
Established point of business shall be defined as a  
principal "Home" office and is not to include any job  
shack, trailer, or temporary office set up for the dura-  
tion of a project.  
(E) (1).On all two-shift operations the first shift shall  
(2)  
be eight (8) hours of continuous employment,  
except for lunch period, between the hours of  
6:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M. The second shift shall  
be seveand one half (7-1/2) hours of continuous  
employment, except for lunch period, and shall  
be paid for eight (8) hours at the straight time  
hourly wage rate.  
The employer may elect to start the first shift of a  
two-shift operation prior to 6:00 A.M., in order to  
make the fullest utilization of the daylight hours.  
in such event, both shifts shall be seven and one-  
half (7-1/2) hours of continuous employment  
except for lunch period and shall be paid for at  
eight (8) times the straight time hourly wage rate.  
Section 31.3. TOOLS:  
(A) Metric tools shall be furnished by the Employer.  
85  
### (B) MILLWRIGHT "MUST CARRY" TOOL LIST  
—m— NO RO NO RD Rm — NO ee ee  
vm NF  
Too! Boxes  
Socket Set - 3/8" and 1/2" Drive with Sockets to  
i-{/4" (No Speed Handles)  
Set of Wrenches up to J-1/4"  
Set of Adjustable Wrenches up to 16"  
Set of Allen Head Wrenches up to 5/8”  
Vise Grips  
Channel Locks  
Set of Screwdrivers-Standard and Phillips  
Cold Chisels  
Center Punches  
Prick Punches  
Different Sized Drift Punches  
Brass Drifts or One with Brass Hammer  
4" C Clamps or Welders Clamps  
Set of Pliers up to Four Pairs of Various Types  
Small Wedges  
Combination Square Set with Protractor Head  
and Center Head  
Sets of Feeler Gauges  
Micrometer  
Dial Indicator Set  
Dial Indicator Clamp or Holder  
Putty Knife  
Pencil Magnet  
Soap Stone Holder  
Small Pry Bar  
Hacksaw Frame (Blade Furnished by Contractor}  
Chalk Line and Box  
86  
Millwrights “Must Carry” Tool list (continued)  
— it tet eet ND  
Screw Jacks  
Tin Snips  
Bevel Square  
6" Straight Rule  
Pocket Tape  
50' Tape  
6" Slide Caliper or Inside and Outside Caliper up  
to 6"  
Mercury Plumb Bob  
Pair of Dividers under 12"  
Set of Trammel Points  
98 12" Level and 1 Smaller Level Optional  
Scribes  
Small Parallel Blocks  
Combination Square (for Rough Use)  
Brass Plumb Bob  
Hammers - Ball Peen - No Heavier than 24 oz.  
Mirror  
Torpedo Level  
At Employee's Option:  
}  
l  
Hand Held Calculator  
Burning Square  
Any tools not listed above, but required by the  
employer, shall be furnished by the employer.  
87  
Article 32  
### Piledrivers - Special Provisions  
Section 32.1. Piledrivers - Special Provisions  
A. For those workers who reside (live within the free  
zone) in the following reference cities, namely,  
Astoria, Bend, Eugene, Klamath Falis, Medford,  
Newport, Roseburg, Salem, The Dalles, their zone pay  
shall be computed from the City Hall! of the city  
wherein they reside. For those workers who reside  
nearer to a project than the free zone of the nearest ref-  
erence city, and are available for that project, the  
mileage from their residence may be used in comput-  
ing their zone pay for that project. The zone pay forall  
other projects shall be computed from the City Hall of  
the local having jurisdiction of the work.  
B, Marine Piledriver - See definition in Section  
of Character of Work.  
Section 32.2. Piledrivers - Character of Work  
A. The Employers and the Union agree that the work  
covered in this Agreement is the work usually done by  
piledrivers including but not limited to, all labor  
employed in the preparation, driving, setting, staying,  
stressing, testing, pulling, cutting off including cutoffs  
on pile by blasting (prima cord and/or capping  
of piling of any type including steel pile, all pre-cast  
concrete piles, pile jackets, composite piles, cast in  
place piles, drilled in place pre-cast concrete rods.  
88  
drilled in composite piles, drilled in cast in place piles  
including any and all drifled in pile, also the splicing,  
barking, heading and shoeing of piling and the rigging  
and signaling connected with all of the above.  
B. Labor employed directly connected within the  
work, in the rafting, boring, reeving, dogging, driving,  
framing, cutting off or pulling of piles, including  
walling and bracing in open sewers where piles are  
driven, and rigging and signaling connected therewith.  
C. Labor employed in the framing of any and all struc-  
tural material (except rebar) when and where such  
material is to be used in construction of or reconstruc-  
tion and maintenance of wharves, docks, trestles,  
viaducts, bridges, trusses, truss beams, on all types of  
tide boxes and similar structures. In the construction  
and repair of substructures of underpasses, subways,  
overhead crossings, pre-cast bulkheads, and other sim-  
ilar structures where power, piledriving or derrick  
equipment is used. In the building of ferry slips, cof-  
fer dams, coffer dam framing, bracing and placing  
open cribs and caissons, underwater pipe lines, includ-  
ing such pipe where it emerges out of the water for  
short distances, dry-docks, graving docks, marine rail-  
ways and seaplane ramps, and in the construction and  
erection of towers, bunkers, (except rebar) and other  
similar structures, including setting of precast shapes  
over water, necessary for the completion of the above  
mentioned projects, and the rigging and signaling con-  
nected therewith.  
D. Labor employed in the moving and placing of  
89  
heavy machinery, boilers, tanks, guns and similar  
masses, When and where piledriving, power or derrick  
equipment is used, and the rigging and the signaling  
connected therewith. This work shall be done, when  
necessary and expedtent, in conjunction with machin-  
ery mechanics from other crafts.  
E. All labor (excepting Operating Engineers)  
employed in the operation of power or piledriving  
equipment used in the wrecking and dismantling of all  
Structures, and rigging and signaling connected there-  
with,  
F. All labor (excepting Operating Engineers)  
employed in the actual operation of pitedriving rigs,  
piledriving exploratory drilling rigs, derricks, and  
other piledriving and construction equipment used in  
the performance of work set forth above, and rigging  
and signaling connected therewith, the operating of all  
controls pertaining to piledriving, drilling or extract-  
ing, when such controls are located remotely from the  
operator, shall be done by piledrivers.  
G. Where and when piling or other wood material for  
definite use in the construction or repair of all struc-  
tures herein mentioned in this Agreement, or for stor-  
age, is delivered into water from ships or other water  
carriers, the rafting, boring, reeving and dogging shall  
be done by piledrivers.  
H. All timber and form work in the construction and  
repair of concrete docks, piers, and wharves, water-  
front bulkheads and ways of every kind, and dry docks  
$0  
and graving docks shall be at the piledriver's classifi-  
cation and scale and shall extend up to and including  
the deck and mooring facilities thereof.  
I. Framing, handling and erection of timber trusses,  
towers and all similar structures and all rigging and  
signaling connected therewith, shall be at the piledriv-  
er’s Classification and scale.  
J. The division between piledrivers’ and miners’ work  
on subways or tunnels where the interior is to be con-  
structed by tunneling methods, shall be at the portal of  
the subway or tunnel.  
K. In the construction of waterfront and marine facili-  
ties, such as docks, piers, wharves, bulkheads, jetties,  
and similar structures, the piledrivers' classification  
shall continue to apply, up to and including the deck-  
ing thereof.  
L. The piledriver’s classification shall apply on all  
piledriving and caisson work on both land and water,  
the erection of platforms or drill rigs of various design  
used for offshore oi] dritling. and the derricks and  
barges used to overhaul or set oil pipeline moorings at  
the site of operations, including any work that may  
necessitate use of divers and tenders (see Section on  
Divers and Tenders).  
M. In the construction of wooden bridges, whether  
over land or over water, when composed of heavy tim-  
ber, the piledriver's classification shall apply.  
91  
In the construction of concrete or stee! bridges  
(2).  
(3).  
over land, the piledriver’s classification shall  
apply to of the plies and/or caisson  
work including the forms required for the capping  
of the piles or caissons immediately on top of the  
piles or caisson. The "capping of the piles" is  
herein interpreted as being that concrete, wood,  
or other material resting on top of piles, where  
driven or placed and does not include any further  
form work above, the capping. The above shall  
apply on such concrete or steel bridges construct-  
ed overland, highways, railroads, overpasses, and  
include cloverleafs, interchanges, etc.  
On bridge over water the column or abutments in  
water and at the water's edge, or the first column  
or abutment on land adjacent to water's edge.  
shall come under the piledriver's classification.  
The water line for fresh water streams shall be  
considered normal water's edge. The water line  
on tide affected streams shall be at the high nor-  
mal water's edge. Bridges over water shall also  
include bridges over rivers that are dry in season;  
bridges constructed over a dry by-pass designed  
to carry flood water, bridges over ravines or  
depressions which carry water during spring run-  
off; bridges over man-made canals or aqueducts.  
The above assignments referring to concrete or  
steel bridge over water are based upon piles being  
driven, caissons sunk or coffer dams erected by  
piledrivers under the piledriver's classification on  
such concrete or steel bridge foundations.  
92  
O. In the construction of concrete or steel bridges over  
water, the piledriver's classification shall apply up to  
and including all the form work to the top of the col-  
umn, piers or abutments supporting the steel and/or  
any other structure.  
P(1). In the erection of falsework, when necessary for  
(2).  
(3).  
the support of work under the piledriver's classi-  
fication, then such falsework shall fall within  
their classification.  
Falsework necessary for the support of work  
under the carpenter's classification shall be done  
within such carpenter's classification, with the  
exception that where piledriving or power equip-  
ment is used for heavy timber falsework, then  
such work shall come under the pitedriver’s clas-  
sification. This would include all rigging, signal-  
ing, and tagging incidental to the placing of heavy  
timber.  
Falsework necessary for the support of the deck-  
ing of concrete or steel "bridge over water" shall  
come under the carpenter's classification.  
Falsework for such decking ts under the carpen-  
ter's classification, except where piledriving or  
power equipment is used.  
(4). (Do not interpret forms to be heavy timber false-  
work within the meaning of the first paragraph of  
this subsection.) If any dimension forms are fab-  
ricated on the ground for work coming under the  
carpenter's classification, then such forms can be  
93  
put in place by power equipment under the car-  
penter's classification. Forms coming under the  
piledriver's classification, as outlined, shal! be  
installed or placed under such piledriver's classi-  
fication. If heavy timber falsework consisting of  
support for forms installed is under the carpen-  
ter's classification and piledriving or power  
equipment is used. then such installation of heavy  
timber falsework shall be done under the piledriv-  
er's classification as plainly stated in the first  
paragraph of this subsection.  
Q. In the construction of open-cul sewers, the piledriv-  
er classification shall apply on all piling including  
wood, steel or concrete sheet piling, where conven-  
tional piledriving equipment is used.  
R. The assembling. crecting and dismantling of  
piledriver equipment at the job site used exclusively  
for any of the above operations.  
S. Erection and assembly of pipe and tanks of wood or  
wood substitutes.  
T. The number of workers in a crew is dependent upon  
the conditions involved as recognized by the Union  
and Employer.  
U. Steel scaffolding for setting heavy timbers when  
using power equipment.  
V. A "Marine Piledriver” is defined as one who works  
in the construction of waterfront and marine facilities,  
94  
such as docks, piers, wharves, bulkheads, jetties and  
similar structures when working with piledriver, der-  
rick, crane or similar power equipment on the water.  
Section 32.3. Tidework or Broken Shift  
A. When an employee is called out to work broken  
time or tide work, Monday through Friday, the mini-  
mum pay for such work shall be eight (8) hours at the  
applicable straight time rate.  
B. Subject to the above minimum, in computing the  
time to be paid for under this provision, eight (8) hours  
or less worked between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. shall  
be paid for at the applicable straight time rate.  
C. Any time in excess of eight (8) hours worked  
between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. shall be paid for at  
the applicable overtime rate.  
D, In the event an employee is called out to work bro-  
ken time or tide work on Saturdays, Sundays or holi-  
days the applicable overtime rate or rates shall be paid  
for all time worked and the minimum pay shall be six  
(6) hours at such overtime rate.  
Article 33  
### Divers and Divers' Tenders  
A. The following classification of divers and divers’  
tenders ts hereby made a part of the piledrivers, bridge,  
dock and wharf builders affiliated with the United  
95  
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America  
agreement. It being further understood and agreed that  
the diving crew portion of this Agreement shall be for  
the entire State of Oregon and the five and one-half  
counties in the State of Washington more properly  
described as Klickitat, Skamania, Clark, Cowlitz and  
Wahkiakum and that portion of Pacific County south  
of a straight line made by extending the north bound-  
ary line of Wahkiakum west to the Pacific Ocean.  
B. All diving crews operating in the above area will be  
under the jurisdiction of Loca! #2416, Portland.  
Oregon.  
Section 33.1. Purpose of Article  
(A) The purpose of this Article is to supply divers who  
are qualified to work well under all the conditions  
peculiar to this area, such as high water, muddy water,  
etc., where visibility is zero, and the diver must train  
himself/herself to meet these conditions plus the use of  
all the various tools necessary to properly do this  
work.  
(B) Work covered by this Agreement shall be subma-  
rine diving and all of its branches, such as but not lim-  
ited to wrecking, salvaging of all ships, underwater  
pipeline work, construction, reconstruction, repairing,  
inspecting, removing and recovering of all objects  
below the water surface.  
96  
Section 33.2. Hourly Wages Scales  
(A) Divers: Divers hourly scale will be two point four  
five five (2.455) times the piledrivers hourly base  
wage scale. The diver will receive a four (4) hour min-  
imum of diving scale any time he/she is called out. The  
diver will receive two (2) hours of diving scale for any  
dives after the fourth (4th) hour and up to the sixth  
(6th) hour. The diver will receive two (2) hours of div-  
ing scale for any dives after the sixth (6th) hour and up  
to the eighth (8th) hour at applicable diving scales per  
hour as listed below.  
(B) Tenders: The divers tenders wage rate will be the  
same as piledriver foreman’s scale, four (4) hours min-  
imum,  
(C) Manifold and/or Decompression Chamber  
Operators. The divers manifold operator wage rate  
shall be the same as piledriver foreman's scale, four (4)  
hours minimum.  
-(D) Timekeeper. The timekeeper shall receive the  
same as a piledriver, four (4) hours minimum.  
(E) Diving Supervisor (When required by specifica-  
tion or contracting agency.) The diving supervisor  
shall receive the standby diver's rate of pay.  
(F) The official time for the purpose of this agreement  
shali be applicable legal time.  
(G) The regular hours of work on the single shift oper-  
97  
ation shall be eight (8) hours of continuous employ-  
ment, except for lunch period of not less than one-half  
(1/2) hour nor more than one (1) hour, between the  
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., unless changed by  
mutual agreement between the Employer and the  
Union. Such mutual consent shal! not be unreasonably  
asked or denied. Forty (40) such hours of work,  
Monday through Friday, shall constitute a regular  
week's work, on all shifts of eight (8) hours.  
(H) On any one or two-shift operations, Monday  
through Friday, all work —_ performed before and/or  
after any scheduled shift hours, up to two (2) hours  
per shift, shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2)  
times the regular hourly rate, however, all time  
worked in excess of ten (10) hours and all time  
worked on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays shall be  
paid at double the straight time hourly rate.  
(1) Divers, standby divers, tenders: limekeepers, man-  
ifold operators. chamber operators (decompression),  
diving masters, and other personnel of the diving crew  
will be employed in accordance with the conditions of  
Article 5 in the body of the Agreement.  
Section 33.3. All expendable material required to do  
the work shall be furnished by the Employer.  
Section 33.4. There shal! be no transportation  
allowance paid on any job to be performed within an  
area of thirty (30) AAA miles from a diver's base of  
operation. On jobs located beyond thirty (30) AAA  
miles the members of the diving crew shall be reim-  
98  
bursed for transportation allowance at the rate of $.30  
per mile to and from the job.  
Section 33.5. Standby time is defined as any shift dur-  
ing which a diving crew is required by the employer to  
be on the job but not required to dive. The standby rate  
of pay for divers shall be one-half the divers scale.  
When not coupled with a diving shift, the standby  
diver shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours of  
standby pay. If required to standby more than four (4)  
hours but not more than six (6) hours, he/she shall  
receive not less than six (6) hours standby pay. If  
required to standby more than six (6) hours but not  
more than eight (8) hours he shall receive not less than  
eight (8) hours of standby pay. The other members of  
the diving crew will receive the regular hourly or daily  
rate for standby time.  
Section 33.6. On all jobs where members of the diving  
crew are required to stay overnight beyond one hun-  
dred (100) miles, and suitable and adequate board and  
lodging are not furnished by the employer, the  
employee shail be compensated in accordance with  
Zone Pay item "G". The subsistence allowance to the  
diving crew shall be on a seven (7) day basis during  
continuous employment.  
Section 33.7. The employer shali have the right to  
select the divers he/she wishes to employ, with the pro-  
vision that those who are available from the area cov-  
ered by this Agreement and whose cards are stamped  
"qualified" diver will be given the opportunity to per-  
form the work prior to the hiring of any divers from  
99  
outside areas.  
Section 33.8. The diver shall provide the Employer  
with a medical letter or certificate showing that he/she  
has been examined by a qualified licensed diving  
physician and found to be physically fit to perform  
underwater work. A physical shall be performed each  
year. The certificate should indicate the passing of the  
oxygen tolerance test.  
Section 33.9. Divers, in addition to their base pay,  
shall receive depth money to be paid as follows:  
A. For dives exceeding fifty (50) feet, but not over one  
hundred (100) feet, $1.00 per foot for each foot over  
50 feet.  
B. For dives exceeding one hundred (100) feet, but not  
over one hundred fifty (150) feet, $1.50 per foot for  
each foot over 100 feet.  
C. For dives exceeding one hundred fifty (150) feet,  
but not over two hundred (200) feet, $2.00 per foot for  
each foot over 150 feet.  
D. For dives exceeding two hundred (200) feet, the  
diver may name his/her own price providing it is not  
less than the scale listed for two hundred (200) feet  
depth.  
E. Depth shal! be figured from the surface to the actu-  
al depth where the diving work is being performed.  
100  
F. When it is necessary for a diver to enter any pipe or  
tunnel or other enclosure in which there is no vertical  
escape, a premium, according to the following sched-  
ule, shal] be paid in addition to the regular day's pay:  
Distance traveled from entrance:  
5 ft. to 50 ft. per day (addition to above)...,... $ 4.00  
50 ft. to 100 ft. per day (addition to above)..... $ 5.00  
100 ft. to 150 ft. per day (addition to above)... .$ 8.00  
150 ft. to 200 ft. per day (addition to above). . $ 20.00  
200 ft. to 300 ft. per day (addition to above}. ...$ .40  
300 ft. to 450 ft. per day (addition to above). ...$ .80  
450 ft. to 600 ft. per day (addition to above)... .$ 1.60  
For lengths beyond 600 ft. the diver may name his/her  
own price providing it is not less than scale listed for  
600 ft.  
Section 33.10. (A) The maximum time the diver is  
required to worked in different depths of water shall  
_ not be beyond the optimum time as listed in the latest  
Navy Decompression Table.  
Section 33.11. A decompression chamber shall be put  
on the job by the Employer when required. The time  
spent within a decompression chamber as required by  
the State Safety Code or the Standard Navy  
Decompression Tables, after the regular four (4) hour  
shift, shall be paid for at the same rate as when diving,  
except no compensation shall be paid in cases requir~  
ing additional decompression because of the bends  
(and no charge shall be made to the diver for use of the  
101  
decompression equipment). Divers working at depth  
and times that require a decompression stop. shall be  
paid for eight (8) hours work and will be required to  
work full optimum time if necessary. The diver may  
be reqired to finish out the shift at a different rate such  
as tender or timekeeper.  
Section 33.12. Under all diving conditions, the rea-  
sonable judgement of the diver shal! be accepted  
regarding the Jength of time under water and the hours  
that can be worked with safety.  
Section 33.13. Ail divers shall have the right lo desig-  
nate their own tender, providing he/she is qualified as  
atender. A tender shall be full conversant with the use  
of the U.S. Navy decompression tables and repetitive  
dive tables. He/she shall be familiar with the symp-  
toms of divers' diseases and be able to render the prop-  
er first aid. He/she shall be familiar with the function  
and operation of a decompression tank.  
Article 34  
### Divers’ Tenders  
Section 34.1. Tenders’ work shall consist of tending  
the diver, working on the upkeep and repair of diving  
gear, or such work as ordered by the diver.  
Section 34.2. Tenders shal! receive their regular wage  
rate for standby time. When a tender is required to  
suit-up (wet suit) he/she shall receive $5.00 per four  
102  
(4) hour diving shift in addition to his/her wages.  
Section 34.3. Tenders' time shall run parallel with the  
divers' time and overtime will be paid after eight (8)  
consecutive hours, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays  
shall be paid at applicable overtime rate for the actual  
hours worked with a minimum of four (4) hours. (See  
Article 6, Main Body of Agreement.)  
Section 34.4. A tender furnished by the diver will be  
under the jurisdiction of the diver and he/she does not  
g0 to work in a crew to complete the day's shift and  
shall not receive less than eight (8) hours of Straight  
time pay.  
Section 34.5. Fringe benefits shall be determined as  
provided in Article 15, 16, 18 and 19 of the  
### Agreement.  
Section 34.6. The tender's subsistence shall be the  
same as that provided in Section 33.6 of the Divers.  
Section 34.7. If an employee regularly employed by  
the employer on the work site is selected by the diver  
as a tender, the tender's basic wage scale shall apply  
for the full day and he/she shall return to work under  
his regular foreman after his duties are completed.  
103  
Article 35  
### Diving Crews  
Miscellaneous Provisions:  
Section 35.1. As with piledrivers, no members of the  
diving crew shall be permitted to take upon any job,  
loan, rent or otherwise furnish any power equipment,  
diving equipment, underwater tool, or any equipment  
or tool except as provided for in this Agreement.  
Section 35.2. Adequate facilities shall be provided for  
the diving crew in which to dry their clothes and eat  
their lunches. Same shall be equipped with adequate  
heat.  
Section 35.3. The Employer will furnish to the  
satisfaction all suitable and safe equipment needed to  
perform the diving operation-equipment including, but  
not limited to, personal diving suit, tanks, weight belts,  
compressors, regulator, hat, hose, etc.  
Section 35.4. Character of Work. See Schedule "A"  
Specia! Conditions, Piledrivers.  
Section 35.5. Optimum bottom times for HeO2 dives  
shall be as follows:  
Down to 200 ft..........--. 60 Minutes  
200 ft. to 225 50 Minutes  
225 ft. to 350 ft... 45 Minutes  
300 ft. to 400 30 Minutes  
104  
Over 400 ft.-by mutual agreement between diver and  
Employer.  
Section 35.6. All State and Federal Laws and  
Standards will be enforced by the Employer and the  
Union.  
105  
   
Article 36  
### Guarantee of Authority  
Section 36.1. The individuals signing this Agreement  
in their official capacity hereby personally guarantee  
and warrant their authority to act fer and bind the  
respective parties and organizations whom their signa-  
tures purport to represent.  
In Witness Whereof, this Agreement, including  
Schedule "A", "B", "C" and other attachments hereto,  
has been executed by the parties hereto on this first  
day of June, 2002.  
The following persons from the Union -  
Pacific Norihwest Regional Council of Carpenters is  
duly authorized to sign not for themselves but for and  
on behalf of the Local Unions and Regional Council as  
listed on Schedule "C" herein.  
### FOR THE UNION:  
Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters  
By: John A. Steffens, Executive Secretary-Treasurer  
By: Tim DeGan, Regional Manager, OR/SW WA  
### FOR THE ASSOCIATION:  
Oregon-Columbia Chapter, The Associated  
General Coantractors of America, Inc.  
By: Terrance L. Edgar, Chair, Carpenters Negotiating  
Committee  
By: Robert Schommer, Chair, Collective Bargaining  
Committee  
106  
Schedule A  
Wage and Fringe Schedule  
to Follow  
107  
80L  
### SCHEDULE “A”  
### PACIFIC NORTHWEST REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS  
### ORJSW WA CARPENTERS-MILLWRIGHTS-PILEDRIVERS  
### WAGE AND FRINGE SUMMARY - 100% RATES  
1, 2002 THROUGH  
JUNE MAY 34, 2003  
Gross 1.42% Taxable 3.85% Base  
Wage Training | Pension Wage Dues Wage  
           
       
      
### CARPENTER  
     
   
     
     
     
   
    
   
   
    
     
   
   
Group! | 310s] s 25.07 |  
426|s 403] 27s2|s_ 1.05) [s_ 25.2 |  
Foren 426[8 «oa[s 125[s 27.08]  
A 426|$403]s 27.58  
mina To tT COU CU  
Gupte seers sts 25.58)  
Group |S 36a2 {$s zeca|s 25.70  
107[s 425]s 27.50]  
3923[$ 426]§ 403|s 28.1  
### PILEDRIVER 7 Or OT  
[seers soa[s 125/555]  
403s 25:70)  
26.05)  
fs 27.59  
Foreman A [$39.23] rs aze [$s _125[5 20.11]  
rs 4.26 | fs es0s|s  
$ 0 1.25}$ 27.59  
601  
For definitions ot Group | and Group refer io Classincatton of Carpenters, Starting on Page 60 of the AGC Agreement and Page 69 of the GCCA Agreement  
"Group Il = Refer ta CLASSIFICATION, following Article 29  
“Foreman B rates = 8% over base wage. *** Foreman A (qualified Foremen who have completed specified training) rates = 10% over base wage  
Note: 1) Fringe Benefits {including Vacation) are to be paid on hours worked and therefore are nat compounded on Overtime.  
2) Pension - for Apprentices - See Schedule A in Master Labor Agreement.  
3} On Davis-Bacon work in Lewis County, which is within the jurisdiction of the Piledrivers Local 2416 the total predetermined package may  
be reallocated between wages and fringes to reflect the fringes of the area in which the worker's trust is jocated, understanding that it is  
not he intent ta increase costs.  
4} Training Contributions are based on 1.42% of the Group | Joumeyman Carpenter gross wages of the current Master Labor Agreement  
Contractors signatory to AGC Agreements must pay both PWLE @ $0.02 and CAF @ $0.03.  
Contractors signatory to GCCA agreements pay only CMF @ $0.02.  
Drug Free Workplace @ $0.10 per hour as per Article 7.5.  
### June t, 2002 Pacific Northwest Regional Councit of Carmenters  
Carpenter-Millwright-Pitedriver Wage Rates  
### OL  
### SCHEDULE “A”  
### PACIFIC NORTHWEST REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS  
### OR/SW WA CARPENT: ERS-MILLWRIGHTS-PILEDRIVERS  
### WAGE AND FRINGE SUMMARY - 100% RATES  
JUNE 1, 2003 THROUGH MAY 31, 2004  
   
    
    
   
   
### LLL  
For definitions of Group | and Group II refer to Classification of Carpenters, Starting on Page 60 of the AGC Agreement and Page 69 of the GCCA Agreement  
“Group Ii = Refer to CLASSIFICATION, following Article 29  
"*Foreman @ rates = 8% over base wage. “** Foreman A (qualified Foremen who have completed specified training} rates = 10% over base wage  
Note: 1) Fringe Benefits (including Vacation) are to be paid on hours worked and therefore are not compounded on overtime.  
2) Pension - for Apprentices - See Schedule A in Master Labor Agreement.  
3) On Davis-Bacon work in Lewis County, which is within the jurisdiction of the Piledrivers Local 246 the total predetermined package may  
be reallocated between wages and fringes to reflect the fringes of the area in which the worker's trust is located, understanding that it is  
not the intent to increase contractors’ costs.  
4) Training Contributions are based on 1.42% of the Group | Journeyman Carpenter gross wages of the current Master Labor Agreement  
Contractors signatory to AGC Agreements must pay both PWLE @ $0.02 and CAF @ $0.03.  
Contractors signatory to GCCA agreements pay only CMF @ $0.02.  
Pacific Northwest Regionat Council of Carpenters  
June 1, 2003 Carpenter-Miltwright-Piledriver Wage Rates  
ebb  
### SCHEDULE “A”  
### PACIFIC NORTHWEST REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS  
### OR/SW WA CARPENTERS-MILLWRIGHTS-PILEDRIVERS  
### WAGE AND FRINGE SUMMARY - 100% RATES  
JUNE 1, 2004 THROUGH MAY 31, 2005 .  
Gross Taxable Base  
|_| rains | pension | aw | Wage | Dues | Vacation | wane  
### CARPENTER  
### CARPENTER  
   
[| CE  
### $7.15 PERHOUR FOREACH GROUP |  
ebb  
For definitions of Group i and Group !I refer to Classification of Carpenters, Starting on Page 60 of the AGC Agreement and Page 69 of the GCCA Agreement  
*Group (| = Refer to CLASSIFICATION, following Article 29  
**Foreman 8 rates = 8% over base wage. *** Foreman A (qualified Foremen who have completed specified training) rates = 10% over base wage  
Note: +) Fringe Benefits (including Vacation) are to be paid on hours worked and therefore are not compounded on overtime.  
2} Pension - for Apprentices - See Schedule A in Master Labor Agreement.  
3} On Davis-Bacon work in Lewis County, which is within the jurisdiction of the Piledrivers Local 2416 the total predetermined package may  
be reallocated between wages and fringes to reflect the fringes of the area in which the worker's trust Is focated, understanding that it is  
not the intent to increase contractors’ costs.  
4} Training Contributions ara based on 1.42% of the Group | Joumeyman Carpenter gross wages of the current Master Labor Agreement  
Contractors signatory to AGC Agreements must pay both PWLE @ $0.02 and CAF @ $0.03.  
Contractors signatory to GCCA agreements pay onty CMF @ $0.02.  
Orug Free Workplace @ $0.10 per hour as per Article 7.5.  
### Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters  
June 1, 2004 Carpenter-Millwright-Pifedriver Wage Rates  
### PEL  
### SCHEDULE “A“  
### PACIFIC NORTHWEST REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS  
### OR/SW WA CARPENTERS-MILLWRIGHTS-PILEDRIVERS  
### WAGE AND FRINGE SUMMARY - 100% RATES  
JUNE 1, 2005 THROUGH MAY 31, 2006  
|__| Waar | | | naw | “wom” |  
Wage Training Wage Dues Vacation Wage  
Group) TT  
fT  
po  
         
          
      
    
    
### SL  
For definitions of Group | and Group Il refer to Classification of Carpenters, Starling on Page 60 af the AGC Agreement and Page 69 of the GGCA Agreement  
*Group tl = Refer to CLASSIFICATION, following Avticle 29  
“Foreman 8 rates = 8% over base wage. *** Foreman A (qualified Foramen who have completed specified training) rates = 10% aver base wage  
Note: 1} Fringe Benefits {including Vacation) are to be paid on hours worked ‘and therefore are not compounded on overtime,  
2) Pension - for Apprentices - See Schedule A in Master Labor Agreement.  
3) On Davis-Bacon work in Lewis County, which is within the jurisdiction of the Piledrivers Locat 2416 the total predetermined package may  
be reallocated between wages and fringes to reflect the fringes of the area in which the worker's (rust is understanding that it is  
not the intent to increase contractors’ costs.  
4) Training Contributions are based on 1.42% of the Group | Carpenter gross wages of the current Master Labor Agreement  
Contractors signatory to AGC Agreements must pay both PWLE @ $0.02 and CAF @ $0.03.  
Contractors signatory to GCCA agreements pay only CMF @ $0.02.  
Drug Free Workplace @ $0.10 per hour as per Article 7.5.~  
### Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters  
June 1, 2005 Carpenter-Millwright-Piledriver Wage Rates  
### SCHEDULE B  
### CONTRACTORS SIGNATORY TO  
### OREGON COLUMBIA CHAPTER  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
9450 SW Commerce Circle  
Wilsonville, OR 97070  
### EFFECTIVE JUNE 1, 2002  
For a current list of signatory contractors, please  
Contact The Oregon Columbia Chapter Associated  
General Contractors, 9450 SW Commerce Circle.  
Wilsonville OR., 503/682-3363 or The Pacific  
Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters, 12790 SE  
Stark, Suite 102, Portland OR., 503/261-1862.  
116  
Schedule C  
Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters  
12790 SE Stark, Suite 102  
Portland, Oregon 97233  
(503) 261-1862  
### PORTLAND & VICINITY  
Local Union No. 247  
2205 N. Lombard  
Portland, Oregon 97217  
(503) 289-9632  
Local Union No. 1388  
276 Warner Milne Road  
Oregon City, Oregon 97045  
(503) 656-7716  
Local Union No. 2066  
P.O. Box 536  
St. Helens, Oregon 97051  
(503) 397-2211  
Local Union No. 2130  
1555 SE T.V. Hwy., Suite 4  
Hillsboro, Oregon 97123  
(503) 648-6454  
Local Union No. 2154 (Drywall)  
1125 SE Madison #207  
Portland, Oregon 97214  
(503)232-1970  
117  
### OUTSIDE PORTLAND VICINITY  
Local Union No. 190  
1400 Esplanade St.  
Klamath Fails, Oregon 97601  
(541) 882-1193  
Local Union No. 306  
20354 Empire Ave. D-8  
Bend, Oregon 97701  
(541) 385-5972  
(covers Baker, Bend, The Dalles and  
Hermiston)  
Local Union No. 780  
PO Box 124  
Astoria, Oregon 97103  
(503) 325-7705  
Local Union No. 1001  
3427 Ash Street  
North Bend, Oregon 97459  
(541) 756-6333  
Local Union No. 1065  
2659 Commercial St.SE, Ste. 282  
Salem, Oregon 97302  
(503) 362-6419  
Local Union No. 1094  
PO Box 307  
Corvallis, Oregon 97339  
(541) 754-9149  
118  
### OUTSIDE PORTLAND VICINITY (Con't)  
Local Union No. 1273  
PO Box 24809  
Eugene, Oregon 97402  
(541) 681-9059  
Local Union No. 1707  
618 - 14th Ave. Ste. A  
Longview, Washington 98632  
(360) 423/5030  
Local Union 1715  
612 E. McLoughlin Blvd.  
Vancouver, Washington 98663  
(360) 693-073 1  
Local Union No. 2067  
PO Box 3056  
Centra! Point, Oregon 97502  
(541) 664-4450  
### PILEDRIVER, BRIDGE, DOCK & WHARF  
### BUILDERS AND DIVERS  
Local Union No. 2416  
2225 N. Lombard St., Rm. 2  
Portland, Oregon 97217  
(503) 285-6652  
119  
### MILLWRIGHTS  
Local Union No. 711  
10718 SE Hwy. 212  
Clackamas, Oregon 97015  
(503) 723-0357  
### OREGON-WASHINGTON CARPENTERS-  
### EMPLOYERS BENEFIT FUND  
Associated Administrators  
2929 NW 31st  
Portland OR 97210  
503/222-9603 or 800/888-0346  
120  
Separation Slip  
Project name  
Project Number  
Employee  
### SSN  
Last Day Worked Hours worked that day  
   
   
Eligible for re-hire? [ ]Yes [ ]No  
List Journeyman Skill Advancement courses recommended:  
(see training catalogue for courses, or list skill areas)  
Company $$  
Dat  
Ey  
### PU  
Address $$ $$$  
### SN  
a  
121