K 8414  
   
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Title Click on any heading to view text Article  
severe SUN  
Business Representatives ...  
Center For Contract Compliance BAL  
Classifications .. VILL  
Contract Administration Fund .. .  
Contributions to Trust Funds Attachment No.1  
### COVETALE oo.  
### L  
Demolition Work I  
Dispatching Procedures LD  
Drug and Alcohol ‘Abuse Prevention Program . XXVI1  
### XVIII  
qq t EY 255 se KENNER All  
Foreman Wage Rate .. NLM  
Fund for Construction Industry Advancement . AA  
ee aun ]  
General Saving Clause XI  
Grievances and Disputes, Procedure for Settlement .................. VI  
Hiring Hall ins ean ME  
PUI eter XX  
Jobsite Transportation BOWEL  
Jurisdictional Disputes DW  
### I  
### V  
### XVI  
### TESTE HOE ma PRESEASON ES  
Mario) ora  
Material. Supplies, Equipment, Purchase Of  
Other X  
Overtime, Rates XIX  
Overtime, Shift WW ILL  
Parking ............. tc Eden te Pen sos XVII  
TWH 8S ie yates sans vei scans stresses TANT PRS AVI  
Pensidt Plann XIX  
Prejob Conference ... LV  
Protective Clothi ng... XV  
Public Works Project XXIV  
Qualifications IX  
Repairs, WarraMmty I  
Reporting Time and Minimum Pay  
Wages stasis save XIX  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
   
### AGCX  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
   
### AGC X97  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
### TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)  
Title  
Residential Work  
  
Shifts:  
Special  
Multiple oo...  
### SHOW-Up PIME  
Signing Of HANES  
Starting Times, Deviation XVill  
Stewards ..  
Strikes, Lockouts. Jurisdictional Disputes ..  
Subcontracting, Employees Rights, Union Standards and Work Preservation  
Subsistence ...  
Supplementat Dues ..  
Term, Termination and Renewal ..  
Tide Work ... a  
Training and Retraining Trust...  
Transfer Of Employees  
Union Recognition ...  
Article  
### ... Appendix A  
... AVE  
Unit Work a agreements).  
Pla  
Watelimen  
Work  
### DBE EOS vanes ERATE  
AOR Here  
   
### MASTER LABOR AGREEMENT  
between  
### SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
and  
### THE SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS  
This Agreement entered into this first day of July 2003, by and between the Associated General Contractors of  
California, Inc., the Building Industry Association of Southern Inc., and the Southern Cali-  
fornia Contractors Assoclation, Inc., on behalf of their respective eligible members, hereinafter referred to as the  
CONTRACTORS; and, the Southern California District Council of Laborers affiliated with Laborers’  
International Union of North Amerlea, AFL-CIO. on of itself and on behalf of its affiliated Local Unions  
have jurisdiction over the work in the territory hereinafter described, all affiliated with the Building and  
Construction Trades Department of the American Fedcration of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations;  
hereinafter referred to as the UNION.  
### PURPOSE  
The Contractors are engaged in construction work in Southern California and, in the performance of their present and  
future operations, are employing and will employ workmen under the terms of this Agreement. The Contractors want  
to be assured of their ability {o procure workmen in the geographic area hereinafter defined in Article I, in sufficient  
number and with sufficient skill to assure continuity of work in the completion of their construction work. The Union  
and the Contractors, by this Agreement, intend to establish uniform rates of pay, hours of employment and working  
conditions for the employees covered by this Agreement. The Union and the Contractors further intend by this  
Agreement to provide, establish and put into practice an effective method for the settlement of misunderstandings,  
disputes or grievances, with the thought in mind that the Contractors are assured continuity of operation and the  
employees of the Contractors are assured continuity of employment and industrial peace is maintained.  
The parties to this Agreement recognize the necessity of assuring the competitive position of the parties within the  
industry during the term of this Agreement. Consistent with that recognition, the parties will continually monitor the  
effectiveness of this Agreement relative, toe specilic geographic or market arcas and will endeavor, by mutual agree-  
ment, to initiate such modifications to the Agreement during its term as may be necessary to assure the work opportu-  
nities of the employees and the competitive position of the individual employers.  
To effectively implement the foregoing, the parties to the Agreement hereby establish a Committee composed of seven (7)  
representatives appointed hy the Southern California District Council of Laborers and seven (7) representatives  
appointed by the Southern California General Contractors. This Committee will review requests for changes in the  
terms and conditions of the Labor Agreement that maybe necessary to preserve work opportunities for employees and  
individual employers covered by the Agreement. The Committee is authorized to recommend such changes as it deems  
to be in the best interest of the parties to the Agreement, which changes, if approved as set forth below. shall not be  
subject to Article X, Paragraphs A or B of the Agreement.  
   
2003 - 2006  
  
Agreement  
Page }  
   
### AGC  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 2  
     
    
   
AGC mio”  
### CALIFORHI  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
re  
Ay  
ot  
Approval of any change shall not be subject to Article IV or VI of the Agreement, and shall require a written agreement  
approved and executed by duly authorized representatives of the Southern California District Counci} of Laborers and  
the Southern California General Contractors.  
This Committee shall be empowered to develop rules and procedures for its deliberations.  
### ARTICLE |  
### General Provisions  
### A. DEFINITIONS:  
1.  
The term “Contractor” or “Employer,” as used herein, shall refer to an Employer party to or bound by this  
Agreement.  
The term “Association,” as used herein, shall refer to the Associations previously named and signatory to this  
Agreement.  
The term “Union,” as used herein, shill refer to the Southern California District Council of Laborers and its  
affiliated Local Unions which have jurisdiction over the work in the territory covered by this Agreement. The  
term “Local Union”, as used herein, shall refer to a local Union affiliated with Southern California Distriet  
Council of Laborers, which has jurisdiction over the work in the territory covered by the agreement.  
The term “Workman” or “Workmen,” as used herein, shall refer to a person, or persons, in the labor market who  
are not employed.  
The term “Employee(s)” as used herein, shall refer to the employed person, or persons, working in the jurisdic-  
tion covered by this Agreement.  
The term “Superintendent” as used herein shall refer to an employee who does not work with the tools of the  
trade and who may supervise employees working at the trade.  
All personal nouns and pronouns refer to the male and female gender.  
### B. COVERAGE -  
1.  
3.  
This Agreement shall apply te and cover all hours of employment of each employee of the Contractors, ineluding  
Developers, Builders or Construction Managers and to Owner-Builders to the extent permitted by law within  
the territory as described in this paragraph, employed to perform or performing any construction work within  
the jurisdiction of the Union, as such employees and construction work are respectively defined hereafter in this  
Agreement in the area known as Southern California and more particularly described as the Counties of Los  
Angeles, Inyo, Mono, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, lmperiaJ, Ventura, Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo,  
Kern and in addition: Richardson Rock, Santa Cruz island, Arch Rock, San Nicholas Island, Santa Catalina  
Island, San Miguel Island, Santa Barbara Island, San Clemente Island, Santa Rosa Island, Anacapa Isiand,  
including the Channel [slands Monument.  
This Agreement is made for and on bebalf of and shall be binding upon all eligibte persons, firms or corporations  
who at the time of execution of this Agreement are, or during the term hereof become. eligible members of the  
Associations.  
Each individual Contractor, whether corporate or other legat entity, or its successor, shall be liable under,  
   
subject to and bound by this Agreement. It is agreed that the wages, hours and working conditions of this  
Agreement are the wages, hours and working conditions in the area covered by this Agreement.  
This Agreement is separate and distinct from and independent of all other Agreements entered into between the  
Union and other Contractor organizations, irrespective of any similarity between this Agreement and any such  
other Agreements, and no acts or things done by the partics to such Agreements or notices given pursuant to the  
provisions hereof, shal] change or modify this Agreement or in any manner affect the contractual  
of the partics herein. except as otherwise provided in the Article covering existing and other Agreements.  
This Agreement shall cover all work coming within the claimed jurisdiction of the Laborers’ International  
Union of North America, including a!l work involved in laying and installation of pipe, to be performed at the  
jobsite as set forth in Article 1 of this Agreement.  
(a) ‘It shall cover work on building, heavy highway, and engineering construction, including the construction  
of, in whole or in part, or in improvement or modification thereof, including any structure or operations  
which are thereto, the assembly, operation, maintenance and repair of all equipment, vehicles,  
and other facilities, including helicopters used in connection with the performance of the aforementioned  
work and services and including without the following types or classes of work:  
(b) Street and highway work, grading and paving, excavation of earth and rock, including non-destructive  
utility line location (hydrovac operations), grade separations, elevated highways, viaducts, bridges,  
abutments, retaining walls, subways, airport grading, surfacing and drainage, electric transmission  
line and conduit projects, underground communication and conduit installation, fiberoptic installation,  
blowing, splicing, testing and related work for telephone, TV. or other communication transmission  
through underground conduit, water supply, water development, reclamation. irrigation, draining and  
flood control projects, water mains, pipe lines, sanitation and sewer projects, dams, aqueducts, canals,  
reservoirs, intakes, channels, levees, dikes, revetments, quarrying of hreakwater or riprap stone, foun-  
dations, pile driving, piers, locks, dikes, river and harbor projects, breakwaters, jetties, dredging,  
tunnels, soil testing and building inspection.  
(ec) erection, alteration, repair, modification, demolition, addition or improvement. in  
whole or in part, of any building structure, including oil or gas refineries and incidental structures, solar  
energy installations and appurtenances thereto, also including any grading, excavation, or similar  
operations which are incidental thereto, or the installation, operation, maintenance and repair of equip-  
ment, and other facilities used in connection with the performance of such building construction execpt  
where such structures are an incidental or supplemental part of highway and engineering construction,  
as defined in this Article.  
(d) All work involved in laying and installation of industrial pipe regardless of the materia] used or sub-  
stance conveyed.  
(e) All work involved in laying and installation of pipe both outside and within sewage filtration and water  
treatment plants, including, but not limited to, mechanical and pressurized pipe within.  
(f) All work involved in laying and installation of landscaping irrigation pipe.  
All work performed in the Contractor's warehouses, shops or yards which have been particularly provided or  
set up to handle work in connection with a job or project covered by the terms of this Agreement and all of the  
production or fabrication of materials by the Contractor for use on the project shali be subject to the terms and  
conditions of this Agreement.  
   
2003 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 3  
      
f ie  
### CALIFORNI  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006.  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 4  
       
atk  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Repairs  
Repairs necessitated by defects of material or workmanship or adjustments of newly purchased and/or  
installed equipment or machinery will not be subject to this Agreement when such repairs and/or adjustments  
are made by the manufacturer thereof or his agents or employees pursuant to the terms of a manufacturer's  
guarantee and the Union will not hamper such manufacturer or his agents or employces on such exempted  
work.  
Demolition  
_ It is agreed that where demolition work is included under the terms of the job specifications of the General  
Contractor or subcontractor such work, including the salvage of the material from the buildings to be demol-  
ished, as limited by the definition of “Demolition Laborer, the Cleaning of Brick and Lumber” contained in the  
wage scale, shall he performed by a person, firm or corporation signatory to this Agreement.  
This Agreement shall cover al] work coming within the claimed jurisdiction of the Laborers’ [International  
Union of North America, including all work involved in laying and installation of pipe, to be performed at the  
jobsite as set forth in Article I of this Agreement.  
Subject to the preceding paragraph, and subject to Paragraphs I and K of this Article, it is agreed that  
Laborers work shall include but not be limited to:  
1. All work necessary to tend all other building trades craftsmen, including stripping of concrete forms,  
handling and raising of slip forms, sewer cleaners, gardening, horticulture, landscaping, trackmen  
(construction, maintenance and repair), cleanup of debris, grounds and buildings and a}l General  
Laborers’ work. The hoisting of rods except when a derrick or outrigger operated by other than hand  
power is used is claimed as Lahorers’ work, also the erection and dismantling of scaffolding regardless  
of height.  
2. All workin connection with excavation for building and other construction including digging of trenches,  
piers, foundations and holes; digging, lagging, sheeting, cribbing and bracing of foundations, holes,  
caissons and cofferdams, manning, setting and moving all manually movable pumps.  
3. All work in connection with conerete work, including all concrete tilt-up, including chipping and grind-  
ing, patching. sandblasting, water blasting, mixing, handling, shoveling, rough-strike off of concrete,  
concrete that may be hand worked by any method or means, conveying, pouring, handling of the chute  
from readymix trucks, walls, slabs, decks, floors, foundations, footings, curbs, gutters and sidewalks,  
concrete pumps and similar type machines, grout pumps, nozzicmen. (including gunmen and potmen),  
vibrating, guniting and otherwise applying concrete whether done by hand or any other process; and  
wrecking, stripping, dismantling and handling concrete forms and false work, cutting of concrete piles  
and filling of cracks by any method on any surface.  
4. Installation and application of epoxy.  
§. All work in the excavation. grading, preparation, concreting, asphalt and mastic paving, paving, ram-  
ming, curbing, flagging. traffic control by any method, and laying of other stone materials, and surfac-  
ing of streets, ways, courts, underpasses, overpasses and bridges.  
6. All workin connection with the operation of spreader boxes, such as True-Lay, Rola Pavers and Laytons  
or similar type models, including but not limited to shoveling and shifting material and cleaning of boxes.  
13.  
20.  
   
All work in connection with the cutting of streets and ways for all purposes, including aligning by any  
method, digging of trenches, manholes, ete.. handling and conveying of all materials for same; concrete  
of same; and the backfilling, grading and resurfacing of same.  
All work in with the construction of caissons, cofferdams, subways {except as covered by the  
Master Labor Agreement), aqueducts, irrigation water lines, culverts, flood controls, and both  
metallic and non-metallic drains and sewers, any type of conduit, no-joint pipe, including the cribbing,  
lagging, bracing, sheeting and checking grade for pipe laying, trench jacking and handling of hand-  
guided lagging hammers on all open trenches and ditches.  
All work in connection with the shoring and under-pinning, including cutting, fitting, placing and  
raising, of all structures, soldier heams and sheet beams.  
All work in connection with drilling, all work of loading, placing and blasting of all powder and  
explosives of whatever type, regardless of the method used for such loading and placing. All power drills  
(whether core, diamond, wagon. track, multiple unit or other) and any and all types of mechanical drills  
without regard to motive power, size of drill bit, or self contained nature of the machine.  
All work in connection with horizontal directional drills, including operation of drill and electronic  
tracking device (locator). All helper work on water well drills.  
All work involved in the construction, replacement, alteration or modification of all rail lines, including  
salvage, demolition and take up, on main lines, siding. service lines or on any structures part of or  
appurtenant to such facilities, whether located on railroad, public or private property and rights of way  
of any sort.  
All signaling and rigging in connection with Laborers’ work.  
All work in connection with the wrecking of buildings and structures as limited by the definition of  
“Demolition Laborer, the Cleaning of Brick and Lumber” contained in the wage scale.  
All work in connection with the slinging, handling and placing of all riprap, rock and stone on highways,  
jetties, retaining walls or wherever used, wrecking yards and wrecking work on construction and/or  
razing sites.  
The opcration of remote controlled robotic equipment in connection with Laborers’ work.  
Mechanically stabilized earthen wall construction and installation.  
All work on precasting or prefabrication at the construction project site or ata precast or prefabrication  
yard specifically established and operated for that one particular construction job.  
All stocking and distribution of drywall material after it has been delivered to the jobsite; general  
cleanup of drywall scrap, framing scrap, lathing scrap, roofing serap, plastering scrap, electrical scrap  
and associated materials: jobsite distribution of all appliances, ranges and furniture as well as cleanup  
work associated therewith.  
The installation of all forms of fencing of any type or material including chain link, V-mesh, rectangular  
noel  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 5  
        
’  
>  
   
    
   
  
   
and square mesh fabrics, revetments, wire netting and barb wire, baseball backstops, tennis courts, c ALIFORNI A  
cribs, cages, window guards and safety screens, interior and exterior. All screens including panels of ASSOCIATED  
metal, fiberglass, glass or synthetic materials. Metal corrals, pens, nuns or enclosures. Metal and wood GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 6  
   
G.  
I.  
I.  
d.  
K.  
L.  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL M.  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
guard rail, road markers and street signs. Post and cable or chain fences or barriers. Installation of  
recreational game equipment including swings, slides, climbing structure, basketball backstops, net  
post and bars. Installation of metal gates and mechanical operators. Baleuny railings where wire mesh,  
meta! or wood panels are involved. Flag poles and street subdivision identification sign posts. All post  
hole drilling or excavation and the driving of fenec posts for the work described above. The loading,  
moving and unloading of fencing materials.  
21. Installation and cutting of pavers and paving stone.  
22. Operation ofall smal! skid steer loaders.  
Classifications listed in this Agreement which are not listed under this Section shall be included in the coverage  
and description of Laborers’ work claimed just as though incorporated in full in this Article. This does not  
restrict the Laborers from performing other work.  
Any Contractor not signatory to both the Laborers’ Tunnel! Agreement and the Master Labor Agreement shall  
agree that whenever work is performed which is covered by the terms of the Laborers’ Tunne) Master  
Agreement for the Eleven Southern California Counties, the provisions of that Agreement shall be fully appli-  
cable to and binding upon the individual Contractor.  
It is agreed that work covered by the following agreements: Plaster Tenders, Brick Tenders. Tunnel, Gunite,  
Housemovers, Horizontal Directional Drill, Parking and Highway Improvement and Landscape area part of the  
work description covered by this Agreement and are a part of the bargaining unit work covered by this  
Agreement for work in the Eleven Southern California Counties. To the extent that any work covered by such  
agreement is encompassed by any construction agreement being performed by or let to the Contractor, such  
other wages, hours and economic terms of employment shall be considered a part of this Agreement in the  
Eleven Southern California Counties by reference. It is agreed that the foregoing work is unit work and as such  
the subcontracting provisions of Article V shall be applicable to such work.  
This Agreement shall not prevent the Contractor from negotiating or making agreements with the Laborers’  
Union for any work or classification not covered by this Agreement.  
Whenever any work covered by this Agreement is to be eliminated or modified by the introduction of any new  
machine, mechanized process, new or different or new or different method or technology with  
respect to the performance of such work, persons employed under this Agreement and subject thereto, will be  
given preference for employment and will be assigned such work where it ts not in conflict with International  
jurisdictional agreements with respect to such new machine, mechanized process, new or different material, or  
new or different method or technology; and the use of any such new machine, mechanized process, new or  
different material, or new or different method or technology shall be subject to and covered by this Agreement,  
regardless of the nature, size or characteristics of such new machine, mechanized process, new or different  
material, or new or different method or technology.  
Manhole building shall be performed by bargaining unit employees qualified to perform manhole building. The  
Contractor may subcontract such work to a licensed contractor whose bargaining unit employees shall perform  
suck work. Such subcontract shall in all ways comply with the article of this Agreement dealing with  
subcontracting. Bargaining unit employees shall receive wages and benefits equivalent to or greater than those  
contained in this Agreement for unit employees performing such work. In either case the hargaining unit  
employees shall receive benefits for actual hours worked, as per Article XVIII, Paragraph M, of this Agreement.  
Work involved in laying and installation of pipe which is covered by this Agreement shall include, but shall not  
he limited to:  
   
   
1. _ All work ineidental to the laying of pipe, the unloading, handling and distribution of all pipe, fittings,  
‘ tools, materials, equipment and laser beam operation.  
2. Industrial pipe fitting in connection with Laborers’ work.  
3. Allinside pipe coating or lining by any method including joint finishing; pipe bursting.  
4. Welding, certified or otherwise, in connection with Laborers’ work.  
5. of low voltage automatic irrigation and lawn sprinkler systems, including but not limited to  
installation of automatic controllers, valves, sensors, master control panels, display boards, junction  
hoxes and conductors including alt components thereof.  
6. Installation of valve boxes, thrust blocks, both precast & poured in place, pipe hangers & supports  
incidental to installation of the entire piping system.  
7. Start-up testing, flushing, purging, water balancing, placing into operation all piping equipment, fix-  
tures and appurtenances installed under this Agreement.  
8. a structure which provides water to work covered by this Agreement, including piping for  
ornamental pools and fountains when done in conjunction with landscaping.  
9. All piping for ornamental stream beds, waterways and swimming pools.  
10. All piping for sewers and drain lines and all preparation on the jobsite allied directly thereto, including  
fabrication, replacement, repair and service of such installations.  
11. All temporary irrigation and lawn sprinkler systems, all temporary water lines.  
12. All decorative landscaping, such as decorative pools, ponds, reflecting units, hand grade landscaped  
areas, finish grade, spread top soil, build mounds, trenching by norma! methods, backfill trenches. seed  
lawns, lay sod, use of ground cover such as flatted materials, riprap, gravel & rock, crushed rock, pea  
gravel and all other landscapable ground covers, installation of header boards and mowing edges, soil  
preparation such as wood shavings, fertilizers (organic, chemical or synthetic), top dress ground cover  
areas with bark or any wood, residual or other specified top dressing.  
All work in connection with the handling, control, removal, abatement, encapsulation or disposal of asbestos  
and/or toxic waste. The work tasks shall include, but not be limited to, the erection, moving. servicing and  
dismantling of all enclosures, scaffolding, barricades, etc., and the operation of all tools and equipment used in  
the handling, control, removal or disposal of asbestos and toxic waste; as well as the bagging, cartoning,  
crating, or otherwise packaging of materials for disposal.  
All work in connection with traffic control, including but not limited to flagging, signaling, assisting in the  
moving and installation of barriers and barricades, safety borders and all equipment; operation of pilot trucks.  
All work in connection with geotechnical, toxic or hazardous waste, environmental remediation, environmental  
investigation, anode or cathodic protection drilling, including but not limited to helper, drilling crew foreman,  
operation of geotechnical or environmental drills and development equipment without regard to motive power,  
size of drill bit or gig, type or method of drilling or self contained nature of the machine. Drills include but are  
not limited to Centra! Mine Equipment (CME), Foremost, Gicoprobe or other similar makes.  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 7  
   
### AGC i  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 8  
   
### AGC Xe  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
### ARTICLE Il  
### Union Recognition  
A.  
C,  
The Contractor hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining representative of all  
employees and persons employed to perform work covered by this Agreement. Itis understood that the Union  
does not at this time, nor will it during the term of this Agreement, claim jurisdiction over the following class  
of employees: executives, superintendents, assistant superintendents, master mechanics, time keepers, mes-  
senger boys, office workers or any employees of the Contractor above the rank of craft foreman. Employees and  
persons employed to perform work covered by this Agreement specificaily include Craft Foremen.  
The Union recognizes the Associated General Contractors of California, Inc., the Building Industry Association  
of Southern California, Inc., and the Southern California Contractors Association, Inc.. as the sole and exclusive  
bargaining representatives for their respective eligible members, present and future, who are or who become  
bound by this Agreement and agree that during the term of this Agreement it will not negotiate or enter into any  
agreement with such individual members of the Associations relative to part or all of the subject matter covered  
by this Agreement.  
This Agreement shall be binding upon each and every eligible member of the Associated General Contractors of  
California, Inc., the Building Industry Association of Southern California, Inc., and the Southern California  
Contractors Association. Inc., with the same force and effect as if this Agreement were entered into by each  
eligible member individually. All eligible members of the Associated (reneral Contractors of California, Inc., (he  
Building Industry Association of Southern California, [nc., and the Southern California Contractors Associa-  
tion, Inc., shall remain jointly and severally liable under this Agreement for the term of the Agreement  
irrespective of whether any cligible member shall resign or be suspended from any of the Associations prior (o  
the expiration date of this Agreement and such liability shal! survive the termination or suspension of member-  
ship and remain in force during the term of this Agreement, provided, however, that as to such former or  
suspended members, the provisions of Article IV and Article VI shal} not apply from the time when such member  
resigns or is suspended from any of the Associations. Such former or suspended member shall automatically  
be hound byall of the terms of the Laborers’ Short-Form Agreement for the Construction Industry except that  
he may terminate the Short-Form Agreement by giving the appropriate Association and the Union at least sixty  
(60) days written notice prior to June 30, 2003 (or June 30 of any subsequent year if the Union fails to give  
notice in 2003) of his intent not to be hound by any new or renewed agreement. Thereafter the termination  
clause of the Short-Form Agreement shall apply. The Associations will advise the Union of any new or resigned  
or suspended members within thirty (30) days after admission to membership or change in membership status.  
### ARTICLE fll  
### Dispatching Procedures, Hiring Hall Provisions  
A.  
In the employment of workmen for all work covered by this Agreement, the following provisions shall govern:  
1. Each Loca] Union shall establish and maintain an employment facility at which it shall establish and  
maintain an open and non-discriminatory employment list for the use of applicants for employment in the  
geographical area serviced by that employment facility.  
2. Applicants shall be registered on the employmient list in the order of time and date of registration. There  
shall be five (5) groupings in the out-of-work list as hereinafter more particularly described.  
3. Each applicant for employment shall be required to furnish such data, records, names of employers,  
length of employment or other information as may be considered necessary to the operation of said  
   
   
qr  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 9  
employment lists and each applicant shall complete prior to registration such forms for recording such  
information as may be submitted to him. Applicants shall list any special skills which they may possess.  
The Contractor shall first call the employment facility servicing the geographical area in which the  
project is loeated on which cmployces are needed and that employment facility shall immediately dis-  
patch to the Contractor the number of qualified and applicants of the classifications nceded  
and requested by the Contractor. The employment facility shal! dispatch workmen strictly in accordance  
with the provisions of this Agreement.  
It shall be the responsibility of the Contractor, when ordering men, to give the employment facility all of  
the pertinent information regarding the prospective employment.  
(a) The employment facility will furnish in accordance with the request of the Contractor each such  
qualified and competent applicant from among those registered on said employment list to the Contrac-  
tor by use of a written dispatch slip stating information pertinent to the prospective employment, in the  
order of preference stated below. The selection of applicants for dispatch to johs shall be on a non-  
discriminatory basis and shall not be based on, or in any way affected by, Union membership, by-laws,  
rules, regulations, constitutional provisions, or any other aspect or obligation of Union membership,  
policies or requirements. The order of preference in the dispatch of applicants who are available for  
employment is as follows:  
Group A: Applicants whom a Contractor requests by name who have been laid off or terminated from  
employment of the type covered by this Agreement in the area served by the employment facility  
within five (5) years before a request from the same Contractor or a joint venture of which one  
(1) or more members is a former employer, who laid off or terminated them provided they are  
available for employment. This provision shall also apply to individual employers wishing to  
rehire employees of a joint venture of which the individual employer was a member.  
Group B: In addition to requests permitted in Group A, above, the Contractor may request for employ-  
ment in Wage Classification Groups II, III, IV, V and VI, any person registered on the out-of-work  
list out of order for any reason; provided, however, that the person has worked at least three  
hundred (300) hours under this Agreement in the previous six (6) months in the area served by  
the Local Union employment facility, or has been available for work on the out of work list at  
least 300 hours (calculated at 8 hours per day) at the Local Union employment facility, or a  
combination of both totaling at least 300 hours. Under this section, working in the arca served  
by the Local Union employment facility shall include a person dispatched toa Contractor in that  
urea and then transferred by the Contractor to another area pursuant to the transfer  
contained in this Agreement. At no time any job contain more than fifty (50%) percent of  
persons requested under this section. Any Local Union, may at its option, permit a percentage  
of individual requests greater than fifty (50%) percent on any job.  
Group C: Applicants whose names are entered on the employment list of the registration facilityand who  
are available for employment and who have been employed in the type of work covered by this  
Agreement within the geographical jurisdiction of the Union, excluding San Diego County, for at  
Jeast one hundred (100) hours within the preceding year. Workmen in Group C shail he referred  
ona first-in, first-out basis; that is. the first man registered in that group shall be the first man  
   
    
referred. AGC Oey  
### . . CALIFORNIA  
Group D: All other applicants whose names are entered on the employment list of the registration facility ASSOCIATED  
and who are available for employment. Workmen in Group D shall be referred on a first-in, first- GENERAL  
out basis; that is, the first man registered in that group shall be the first man referred. CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 10  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
Apprentices: The Local Union, through the Joint Apprentice Committee, shall dispatch Apprentices from a separate list  
on a first-in, first-out basis: that is, the first person registered in that group shall be the first person referred: provided,  
however, a Contractor may request an Apprentice by name and such Apprentice shall be dispatched regardless of the  
Appreutice’s placement on the list.  
(0)  
(c)  
Expedited Dispatch Group: The Union recognizes the need of the Contractor to have the Union dispatch  
workers on an expedited basis to jobsites. and the Contractor recognizes the requirement for the Union  
to operate a fair hiring hall. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article, if the Contractor  
contacts the Local Union after posted dispatch hours and requests workers to be dispatched to a jobsite  
within twenty-four (24) hours of the Contractors’ call to the Local Union (and the Contractor does not  
request the worker by name pursuant to Group A and B, above), the Local Union shall dispatch the  
person nearest to the top of the out-of-work list who is present at the Local Union hiring hail and if no one  
is present, then the person nearest to the top of the out-of-work list who can be contacted by telephone.  
If the Local Union cannot contact a person by telephone after one telephone call, the Local Union shall call  
the next qualified person on the list. A person who is not present at the Local Union hiring hall or  
reachable by telephone for an Expedited Dispatch shall not be etiminated from the out-of-work list.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, a worker shall be given preference in the order of  
dispatch under any of the following circumstances:  
a. A Contractor becomes newly bound to this Agreement and requests the dispatch of its existing  
employees at the time the Contractor hecomes bound.  
b. A Contractor agrees to sponsor an employee as a Journeyman Laborer who has not worked  
under any Laborers Union Agreement; provided the Contractor agrees in writing that it intends  
to employ the worker on a full time basis. The Contractor shall send a letter to the Local Union  
to document its request.  
c. A worker is “stripped” from a non-union employer and is dispatched to a Contractor.  
d. A worker is a certified job steward and is dispatched to the job to act in such capacity.  
At no time shall any job contain more than fifty percent (50%) of persons requested under subsection b,c and d, above,  
Any Local Union may, at its option, permit a percentage of individual requests greater than fifty percent (50%) on any  
job.  
(d)  
(e)  
For Contractor requests by name pursuant to the provision of Article III, Section 6(a), Group A and B and  
Apprentices, above, the Contractor shall document the request in writing, dated, signed by an appropri-  
ate management representative, specifying whether the person is a rehire and names the job for which  
the referral is requested.  
Available for employment shall mean persons eligible for referral and present at the hiring hall or  
present at their residence telephone (if the Local Union permits dispatching by telephone) during the  
{ocal Union's posted dispatch hours, and all persons eligible for referral and present at the hiring hall  
after posted dispatch hours, unless excused for the following reasons:  
Gj) When death occurs in the immediate family, from the date of death and not exceeding one (1)  
week after the date of burial; provided, however, that the applicant produces bona fide proof of  
such death.  
   
(2)  
(h)  
(i)  
   
(ii) Persons on jury duty, provided they produce bona fide proof they are serving on jury duty.  
(iii) | Persons temporarily serving in the U.S. Military Reserve, provided they produce bona fide proof  
of such service.  
— Required attendance at a Workers’ Compensation hearing or other administrative or court  
hearing, provided they produce bona fide proof of their required attendancc at such hearing.  
(v) Any other reason stated in the Local Union's hiring hall rules.  
Persons shall be eliminated from the registration list for the following reasons:  
(1) Dispatched to a job, except that a person who is rejected by the Contractor or fails to complete  
five (5) days of work (or such other period of time set forth in a Local Union’s hiring hall rules)  
shall retain his/her position on the list. Upon request of the Contractor, no person who Is  
rejected by the Contractor shall be dispatched again to the Contractor. Upon Local Union's  
request, the Contractor will confirm its request in writing.  
(ii) Failure to accept the dispatch.  
(ii) | Unavailable for employment during posted dispatch bours.  
(iv) Failure to report to a job to which the person was dispatched.  
(v) Failure to register or attend roll call in accordance with the Local Union's rules.  
(vi) Any other reason stated in the Loca] Union's hiring hall rules.  
There is hereby established a Joint Referral Committee consisting of four (4) representatives of the  
Contractor and four (4) representatives of the Union. The establishment of the Committee is for the  
purpose of interpreting and enforcing all the terns and provisions of Article ITI, A. Any person having  
any disagreement with an placement or dispateh under Article III, A, shall submit his  
grievance to the Joint Referral Committee, by filing a written grievance with the Loca! Union stating the  
reasons for the grievance within ten (10) working days after the occurrence of the grievance. The Joint  
Referral shall have full power to adjust the grievance and its decision shall be final and  
binding upon the person submitting the grievance and all other parties involved in the dispute. In the  
event of deadlock of the Joint Referral Committee, the grievance shall be referred to the permanent  
hiring hall neutral arbitrator, whose decision shall be final and binding. The costs of arbitration shall  
be borne equally by the Employer and the Local Union involved in the dispute. Forms for the submission  
of any such grievance shall be available at all times in the offices of the Local Unions. Neither the Joint  
Referral Committee nor the permanent hiring hall neutral arbitrator has the authority to modify, vary,  
change, add to or remove any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement.  
The parties agree that, at its option a Local Union may elect to delete Group D by posting written notice  
of such election at the place of dispatch.  
When ordering workmen, the Contractor will give notice to the appropriate Local Union, or its Agents,  
not later than 2:30 PM. of the day prior (Monday through Friday), or in any event, not less than seventeen  
and one-half (1714) hours before the required reporting time; and in the event that forty-eight (48) hours  
after such notice the appropriate Local Union, or its Agents, shall not furnish such workmen, the  
Contractor may procure workmen from any other source, or sources. If workmen are so employed, the  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 11  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 12  
      
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
B. 1.  
B. 2.  
Contractor will immediately report to the Local Union having work and area jurisdiction, or its Agents,  
each such workman by name.  
New Employees who have not worked under this Agreement may be employed by the Contractor as a Journey-  
man. if so requested by the Contractor and if in accordance with this Agreement. Otherwise, all such  
should be sereened and tested by the Joint Apprenticeship Committee to determine whether the employee is a  
journeyman or should be registered as an apprentice.  
In the event an employee is employed as a Journeyman at the request of a Contractor pursuant to section f.  
above, and leaves the employment of the Contractor and returns to the Local Union for dispatch, the employee  
shall be referred to the Joint Apprenticeship Committee for screening and testing to determine whether the  
employee shal] maintain journeyman status or should be registered as an apprentice. The JAC’s decision shall  
determine whether the employee is placed on the journeyman or apprentice out-of-work list for dispatch to  
another employer.  
It is agreed that all employees, covered hereby shall be, or become. on the eighth day after employment or the  
eighth day after the execution of this Agreement, whichever is later, and remain continuously, members in good  
standing of the Union signatory hereto through its affiliated Local Unions having work and area jurisdiction  
and on whose behalf this Agreement is executed as a condition of employment. Membership in such Union shall  
be available upon terms and qualifications not more burdensome than those applicable at such times to other  
applicants for membership to such Union.  
The Contractor shall discharge any employee pursuant to the foregoing section upon written notice from the  
Union of such employce’s non-payment of initiation fees or dues. Such written notice shall indicate the amount  
of initiation fees or dues which are in a state of and shall give the employee forty-eight (48) hours  
within which to cure the delinquency, The Contractor agrees to furnish a copy of such notice to the employee  
forthwith. The Union wilihold the Contractor harmtess for compliance with this Section.  
Supplemental Dues .  
1. Subject to the following conditions, the Contractor agrees that he shall, if he is furnished with his  
employee's written authorization to do so, deduct the sum certifted by the Union as the amount owing for  
supplemental dues from the amounts required to be paid by the third paragraph of Attachment No. 1 of  
ihis Agreement for each cmployce for each hour worked or paid for in cach payroll period, as special  
supplemental dues. In implementing the foregoing, the parties have established the Laborers  
Vacation Dues Reconciliation Trust (hereinafter “Dues Trust”) as agent for the purpose of receiving and  
holding written authorization cards and for receiving, holding. allocating and distributing the dues  
monies,  
2. Said supplemental dues shall be transmitted to the Dues Trust concurrently with, but not as a part of,  
the monthly vacation contributions with respect to his employees covered by this Agreement  
to the Construction Laborers Vacation Trust for Southern California, All sums deducted by the employ-  
ers pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall, from the instant of their deduction, be considered  
dues if proper authorization shall have been furnished. All other sums transmitted by the employers  
pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall, from the instant of their transmittal, be considered  
vacation contributions if no such proper authorization shall have been furnished and shall be held by the  
Vacation Trust for the account of the employee. Prior to deposit in the separate bank accounts of the  
Dues Trust, on the one hand, and the Vacation Trust, on the other, the bank shall separate the funds  
transmitted into dues and vacation contributions, respectively, based upon whether or not a proper dues  
deduction authorization shall have been filed. The bank shall then deposit such sums in the account of  
   
the appropriate Trust referred to in this Section. The Union shail bear the entire responsibility for  
furnishing the written authorization referred to above. All costs incidental to receipt, administration  
and remittance to the Union of the supplemental dues payments shall be borne solely and entirely by the  
Union. This provision shall not reduce the obligations of the Contractor te pay the full amount of vacation  
contributions specified in this Agreement. All written authorizations referred to above shall be irrevo-  
cable for a period of one (1) year from the date of the execution and shall renew automatically from year  
to year thereafter, unless the employee. by written notice served upon the Southern California District  
Council of Laborers and/or the Dues Trust, as agent for the Contractor, within fifteen (15) days  
following the first year or any vear thereafter, revokes such authorization.  
Subject to the foregoing, the Contractor shall have complete freedom of selectivity in hiring and the Contractor  
retains the right to reject, for any reason, any job applicant referred by the employment facility. The Contractor  
may discharge any employee for any cause which he may deem sufficient, provided there shall be no discrimi-  
nation on the part of the Contractor against any applicant or employee, nor shall any such employee be  
discharged by reason of any Union activity not interfering with the proper performance of his work.  
The Contractor recognizes the desirability of employing workmen from the area in which the work is located  
and the Union recognizes that in the employ of the Contractor are Laborers who are necessary to the efficient  
continuity of the Contractor's operations. Therefore, the Contractor may transfer up to four (4) Laborers and  
one (1) foreman from area to area. After the transfer of no more than four (4) Laborers and one (1) foreman,  
the Contractor must hire the next two (2) Laborers from the Loca] Union hiring hall in the geographical area  
in which the work is performed. Thereafter the Contractor may transfer one (1) additional Laborer for each  
Laborer hired from the Local Union hiring hall in whose jurisdiction the work is performed. The Employer shall  
keep this 50-0 ratio intact (one (1) local person and one (1) person from outside the area) in employing, laying  
off and terminating Laborers. Only employees who have been employed by the Contractor for at least three  
hundred (300) hours in the last six (6) months may be transferred from one area to another area. The  
Contractor must properly clear all employees, including foreman and Key employees, with a dispatch slip from  
the Local Union having geographical jurisdiction over the project prior to those employees beginning work. The  
Union will not unreasonably withhold issuing a clearance. For the transfer of additional Laborers, the  
Contractor shall first contact the office of the appropriate Local Union in the area where the work is to be  
performed. The above additional transfers shall only be made by mutual consent.  
Employees employed by any Contractor pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall not be removed nor  
transferred by the Union unless the prior approval of the Contractor has been obtained.  
### ARTICLE IV  
### Strikes - Lockouts - Jurisdictional Disputes  
A.  
It is the purpose and intent of the parties that all grievances or disputes arising between them over the  
interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement shall be settled by the procedures set forth in  
Article VI and that during the term of this Agreement the Union shall not call or engage in, sanction or assist  
ina strike against, or any slowdown, or stoppage of work of the Contractor. During the term of this Agreement,  
a Contractor shail not cause or permit any lockout of the employees covered under this Agreement.  
Except as otherwisc provided in this Agreement, there shall be no strike, lockout or work stoppage by any party  
hereto or any individual Employer.  
No employee covered hereby may be discharged by an individual Employer for refusing to cross a primary picket  
line sanctioned by the Building and Construction Trades Council in the area or for engaging in any conduct  
protected by Sections 7 or 502 of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended.  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 13  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 14  
1. If work on a project is declared to be unfair as the result of a primary dispute by a Building and  
Construction Trades Council in the area and the work thereon is stopped for that reason, the Union shall  
not be deemed to have violated this Agreement if, during the period of said work stoppage, the members  
of the Union faii to perform their work for the Contractor or their subcontractors.  
During the term hercof there shall dc no strikes, slowdowns or stoppages of work occasioned by jurisdictional  
disputes between the Union signatory hereto and any other Union and that all employees covered by this  
Agreement shall perform the work customarily performed by them and will cooperate and work with members  
of other organizations affiliated with the Building and Construction Trades Department, AFL-CIO, or the  
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America, without regard  
to past, present or future disputes on jurisdictional claims.  
When making work assignments, the Contractor shall assign the work in accordance with existing intereraft  
agreements, In the absence of such intercraft agreements, then past practice or the prevailing practice in the  
locality shall apply. The Union will furnish the Association with approved intercraft agreements. The locality  
for the purpose of determining the prevailing practice shall be defined as the geographical area covered by this  
Agreement. Ifa dispute arises prior to the assignment of work, or where there is Do predominant practice in  
the locality or intercraft agreement, the Contractor shall consult the representatives of the contesting trades  
regarding any arguments of facts the trades may wish to present to their claim to the work.  
Jurisdictional disputes shall be settled by the Unions themselves. If not settled, then the dispute shall be  
submitted to the International Presidents of the Unions involved in the dispute for determination. While such  
procedures are being invoked and exhausted, the work shall proceed as assigned by the Contractor. The  
Contractor and the Union shail be and are bound by such determination and decision and the misassignment,  
if any is found. shall be promptly corrected by the Contractor.  
### ARTICLE V  
### Subcontracting, Employee Rights, Union Standards and Work Preservation  
A.  
   
### AGC 2  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED E.  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
The purposes of this Article are to preserve and protect the work opportunities normally available to employees  
and workmen covered by this Agreement, maintenance and protection of standards and benefits of employees  
and worknien negotiated over many years and preservation of the right of Union employees, employed hereun-  
der, from being compelled to work with non-union workmen.  
Definition of Subcontractor. A subcontractor is defined as any person (other than an covered by this  
Agreement), firm or corporation, holding a valid state contractor's license where required by law, who agrees  
orally or in writing to perform, or who in fact performs for or on behalt of an individual Contractor, or the  
subcontractor of an individual Contractor, any part or portion of the work covered by this Agreement,  
Neither the contractor nor any of his subcontractors shall subcontract any work to be done at the site of the  
construction. alteration, painting or repair of a building, structure or other work coming within the jurisdiction  
of the Union except to a person, firm or curporation party tu an appropriate current labor agreement with the  
Union or with the appropriate Local Union.  
Jobsite work covered by the Plaster Tenders, Brick Tenders, Tunnel, Gunite, Housemovers, Horizontal Direc-  
tional Drilling, Parking and Highway Improvement and Landscape Agrecments of the Union are a part of the  
work description and bargaining unit covered by this Agreement.  
Any dispute involving this Article will be resolved under the grievance procedure of this Agreement. An award  
of the Laborers Joint Adjustment Board may be judicially enforeed. Notwithstanding any other provisions of  
   
   
2003 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 15  
this Agreement, the Union shall not have the right to use strike or any other economic action to enforce any  
provisions of this Article on subcontracting.  
The Contractor shail provide in his contract with the subcontractor the following provisions: “The subcontrac-  
tor accepts and agrees to be bound by the procedures for settling jurisdictional disputes as sct forth in Article  
IV of this Agreement. The subcontractor agrecs that he will bind his subcontractor to said procedures in the  
same manner and to the same effect as provided with respect to him.”  
The Contractor and his subcontractor shall have freedom of choice in the purchase of materials, supplies and  
equipment, except that every reasonable effort shall be made by the Contractor and his subcontractor to refrain  
from the use of materials, supplies and equipment, which will tend to cause any discord or disturbance on the  
project.  
In the event the Contractor is required to subcontract work on a public works project toa certified MBE/WBE/  
DBE subcontractor to meet requirements contained in governmental rules or regulations. the contractor shall  
notify in writing the Local Union in whose jurisdiction the work is to he performed. The Union shall offer to sign  
the subcontractor to the Union’s MBE/WBE/DBE Public Works Short-form Agreement.  
In the event the contractor is a partnership, no more than one (1) partner shall perform work covered by this  
Agreement. However, during each day on which the partnership employs on a full-time basis at least three (3)  
Laborer employees, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, then one (1) additional partner shall be allowed  
to perform work covered by this Agreement. All partners who perform work covered by this Agreement and  
pursuant to this Paragraph I, shall be paid not less than the hourly wage rates stipulated in this Agreement for  
such work and the partnership shall contribute to all Trust Funds on behalf of all working partners at the  
hourly rates specified in Attachment #1, except the hourly Pension contribution rate which instead shall be  
paid to the Construction Laborers’ Vacation Fund for Southern California. The Contractor shall be liable in  
damages to the Union in a sum equivalent to the hourly wage rate, and to the Trust Funds in a sum equivalent  
to the hourly contribution rate, for each hour worked by a partner in violation of Paragraph I.  
In the event the Contractor is a sole proprietorship that employs other individuals and the sule proprietor  
performs work covered by this Agreement, the sole proprietor shall be paid not less than the hourly wage rates  
stipulated in this Agreement for such work and the sole proprietorship shall contribute to all Trust Funds on  
of the working sole proprietor at the hourly rates specified in Attachment #1, except the hourly Pension  
contribution rate which instead shall be paid to the Construction Laborers’ Vacation Fund for Southern  
California. The Contractor shall be liable in damages to the Union in a sum equivalent to the hourly wage rate  
and to the Trust Funds in a sum equivalent to the hourly contribution rate for each hour worked by the sole  
proprietor in violation of this Paragraph J. If the sole proprietor has no employees, the sole proprietorship shall  
be considered an owner-operator subject to the provisions of Article V, Paragraph K.  
1. An Owner-Operator is a person who has legal or equitable title to his equipment and operates the  
equipment himself on work covered by this Agreement and he shall operate only that equipment to which  
he has legal or equitahle title. An Owner-Operator shall have proof of ownership of the equipment heing  
operated in his possession at all times and shall produce such proof of ownership upon request by the  
Union or Contractor. It is further agreed that any time an individual Owner-Operator has a piece of  
equipment operated by someone other than himself on any given job or project, the provisions of this  
Paragraph K will not apply to such equipment, rather the subcontracting provisions contained in Article  
V. Paragraph A to C of this Agreement shall become applicable.  
      
     
    
### A  
### A  
2. The Owner-Operator shall not be subject to the dispatch obligations contained in Article II] of this os rly  
Agreement, provided that the Owner-Operator has signed a W-4 form and becomes a bona fide employee GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 16  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
wt  
of the Employer prior to going to work and the Union shall be notified of the name and Social Security  
Number of the Owner-Operator within twenty-four {24) hours after the Owner-Operator is hired, such  
notice to be given to the Local Union in whose area the work is being performed and confirmed in writing  
within twenty-four (24) hours thereafter. A copy of the notification shall be furnished by the contracting  
Employer to the Owner-Operator, and this copy shail be in the possession of the Owner-Operator at all  
times, so long as he remains on the job or project. This notice must be produced upon request of the  
Union. Failure of the Owner-Opcrator to provide proof of ownership of the equipment being operated  
shall be cause for his removal from the job or project until the Owner-Operator and the Employer have  
complied with the requirements of this Paragraph K. The Owner-Operater is subject to the union  
security and supplemental dues provisions of Article III.  
(a) Effective from the time the Owner-Operator first reports to work on the job or project, the Contrae-  
tor shall take all necessary steps to make the Owner-Operator an actual bona fide employee of the  
Contractor. The Contractor shall retain and exercise supervision and control over the manner and  
means by which the Owner-Operator performs work under this Agreement, and shall treat the Owner-  
Operator in all respects as any other employee of the Contractor is treated, except as otherwise provided  
in this Paragraph K. The Contractor shall deal with the Owner-Operator solely in an employer-employee  
relationship, and shall not treat the Owner-Operater as a self-employed person, independent contractor  
or brokered service. The Contractor shall not act as broker of Owner-Operator services to any other  
party and any payment by the Contractor to any broker or other person except a signatory subcontractor  
for the services of an Owner-Operator shall be a violation of this Agreement.  
(b) The Contractor shal! not permit a self-employed person to perform any work covered by this  
Agreement, except as otherwise provided in Article V, Paragraphs I and J. A “self-employed person” is  
one who works for an unincorporated trade or business in which that person owns ten (10%) percent or  
more of the interest in the capital or profits.  
(c) The Contractor shall be liable to the Trust Funds described in this Agreement in an amount equal  
tu the contributions plus interest and liquidated damages froin the date contributions would have been  
due that would have been paid on an employed person tv perform work covered by this Agreement. The  
portion of the contribution designated as supplemental dues shall be forwarded to the Union by the Trust  
Administrator, The sums paid under this provision shall be as damages and not for the benefit of any  
specific individual.  
(d) An incorporated Owner-Operator shall for the purposes of this Agreement, be designated and  
recognized as a subcontractor and subject to the provisions of Article V and, as such provide the  
Contractor, Union and Trust Funds with bona fide information to the effect of such incorporation.  
Separate checks shall be issued to such Owner-Operator for [1] employee wages and [2] for his equip-  
ment.  
All hours worked or paid for under the terms of this Paragraph K shall be reported to, and payments  
made to, the Trust Funds, as provided for in this Agreement.  
The individual Employer will not devise or put into operation any scheme to defeat the terms of this  
section of this Agreement.  
If a Contractor, through the grievance procedure, is found violating any portion of this Article, the  
Contractor shall immediately pay compensatory damages in the amount of one (1) day's pay at the Group  
III rate for each day or portion of a day in which the violation occurred.  
   
### ARTICLE Vi  
### Procedure for Settlement of Grievance and Disputes  
A.  
There is hereby established a Laborers’ Joint Adjustment Board consisting of four (4) regular and four (4)  
alternate representatives of the Contractors and four (4) regular and four (4) alternate representatives of the  
Union. The establishment of this Board and the purpose of its existence is for the purpose of interpreting and  
enforcing all the terms and provisions contained in this Agreement. No dispute, complaint or grievance shall be  
recognized unless called to the attention of and, in the event it is not resolved. confirmed in writing to the  
Contractor, the appropriate Association, or the Local Union and the Union within fifteen (15)  
calendar days, except on discharges, which shall be seven (7) working days after the alleged violation occurred.  
An individual employee having a grievance or dispute shall first attempt to adjust said grievance or dispute with  
the Contractor or his representative. If the grievance or dispute ts not settled at the first step, then the job  
steward, if any, is to receive grievances or disputes from employee members of his craft and shall immediately  
report them to his business representative or special representative, who shall attempt to adjust said grievance  
or dispute with the Contractor or his representative.  
In cases of violation, misunderstanding or differences of interpretation of this Agreement by cither party, there  
shall be no cessation or stoppage of work except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.  
In the event a grievance or dispute cannot be satisfactorily adjusted on the job between the representative of the  
Union and the Contractor or his representative within twenty-four (24) hours, the Labor Relations Represen-  
tative of the appropriate Contractor's Assoeciation shall meet as soon as possible with the Contractor and the  
Union representative in an attempt to resolve the dispute. If the dispute is not resolved at this meeting, the issue  
shall be immediately referred to the Joint Adjustment Board in writing for their consideration and decision.  
A contractor shall refer a grievance or dispute to the Chairman of the Joint Adjustment Board through the  
appropriate Employer Association. The Association shall then refer the grievance or dispute to the Board by  
.sending written notice to the Contractor and the Union Chairman of the Joint Adjustment Board. The Local  
Union shall refer a grievance to the Joint Adjustment Board by sending written notice to the Union Chairman  
of the Joint Adjustment Board and the Management Chairman of the Joint Adjustment Board. The written  
notice of referral required by this paragraph shall contain the name of the Contractor and the Local Union  
directly involved, the date and place of occurrence of the grievance or dispute and a brief description of the  
nature of the grievance or dispute.  
Each of the parties shall within ten (10) days after the execution of this Agreement, appoint its representatives  
and immediately notify the other party. in writing, of the name and business address of each representative  
appointed. The Joint Adjustment Board shail thereafter meet within ten (10) days, select its Chairman and  
Seeretary and agree upon its procedural rules.  
The Joint Adjustment Board shall meet at 9:00 A.M. on the first Wednesday of each month, and shallin addition  
meet at the call of the Co-Chairmen. The Joint Adjustment Board shall issue decisions immediately. In the event  
the Joint Adjustment Board does not reach a decision for reasons of its own, any dispute or grievance may be  
referred to arbitration by either or both parties within five (5) working days to the arbitrator designated in  
Paragraph H. The arbitrator shall meet with the members of the Joint Adjustment Board within seventy-two  
(72) howrs and render a decision within seventy-two (72) hours thereafter. The time limits specified in this  
paragraph may be extended by mutual agreement. A simple majority of the Jomt Adjustment Board shall be  
final and binding upon all parties and the grievants. In the event of a deadlock and the use of the arbitrator is  
required, a majority decision of the Joint Adjustment Board and the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon  
all parties and the grievants.  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 17  
     
AGC Ses?  
### CALIFORNI  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 18  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
The regular members of the Joint Adjustment Board designated in accordance with Paragraph F shall select  
alist of seven (7) permanent arbitrators. In the event the members of the Joint Adjustment Board, by majority  
vote, are unable to agree upon the names of the seven (7) permanent arbitrators. then as to those upon whom  
agreement cannot be reached, the following procedure shall be followed:  
1. The Union representatives shall nominate ten (10) persons for the positions remaining unfilled on the  
panel of arbitrators and the Contractor Representatives shall nominate ten (10) persons for the posi-  
tions remaining unfilled on the pancl of arbitrators. Thereafter, the Union Joint Chairman and the  
Contractor Joint Chairman shall alternately strike names from the lists until there remain only that  
number of names necessary to fill the remaining seven (7) positions on the permanent panel of arbitra-  
tors. Those names remaining shall be added to the permanent panel of arbitrators. The determination  
as to who will strike first will he by lot, with the loser making the first strike.  
2. Thereafter the Joint Adjustment Board shail select an arbitrator to hear a pending grievance or dispute  
by rotation. If for any reason the arbitrator whose turn it is to hear a dispute is unavailable or the  
parties mutually agree that an unreasonable time would be required in order for him to become avai]-  
able, then the next arbitrator in succession shall be selected.  
The Contractors and the Union shall cach have a total of four (4) votes on the Joint Adjustment Board and four  
(4) representatives and not less than two (2) appointed by each party and the Chairman shall constitute a  
quorum.  
All expenses incurred and approved by the Joint Adjustment Board necessary for the consideration and decision  
of grievances or disputes submitted to it shal] be borne by and divided equally by the Union and the Contractor.  
All fees and expenses of the Arbitrator shall be horne by the party against whom the Arbitrator rules.  
If there is any question as to which is the losing party, or if a case is referred back to the parties without decision  
or if there are decisions against more than one of the parties to the arbitration, the Arbitrator is authorized and  
requested to determine who shall pay the fees and may in such case order a sharing of such fees. In such event  
the decision of the Arbitrator on this issue shall be final and binding.  
No jurisdictional disputes shall be submitted for determination to any grievance procedure provided in this  
Article, but shall be determined in the manner provided in Article [V of this Agreement.  
No grievance body established under this Agreement, including the Joint Adjustment Board and Arbitrator, in  
determining any grievance, shall have the authority to modify, vary, change, add to or remove any of the terms  
or conditions of this Agreement.  
The provisions of this Article VI shall not apply in the event the Contractor or the subcontractor or the  
subcontractor of a subcontractor fails to pay or is delinquent in contributions to any Trust established under  
this Agreement.  
The Joint Chairmen of the Joint Adjustment Board shall, immediately following the decision rendered in  
Executive session, announce the decision of the Board to the parties. [n addition, such decision shall be served  
upon the parties in writing, with copies of such decision being furnished to both the Union and the Association.  
The Joint Adjustment Board shall have full authority to fashion such remedies, whether by way of damages,  
orders to cease and desist, or anyand all other reasonable remedies designed to correct any violation which the  
Joint Adjustment Board may have found to have existed.  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 19  
   
Minutes of all meetings of the Joint Adjustment Board shall be recorded by one of the Board members selected  
by the Board, and shall be signed by all members of the Board. Minutes shall be condensed and need not be  
verbatini.  
P. Each decision of the Joint Adjustment Board and the Arbitrator shall be made in writing and a copy of each sent  
to cach interested party, particularly including separate copies to the Local Union and the Contractor dircetly  
involved, and cach of the Contractor Associations and Unions signatory to this Agreemcnt. The determinations  
of the Joint Adjustment Board or Arbitrator arc final and binding upon the parties.  
Q. Itis understood and agreed that the procedures outlined in this Article VI] shall be the exclusive remedy for any  
violation of this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE Vil  
### Craft Steward and Business Representative  
A. The Union business representative or special representative shall have access to the project during working  
hours and shall make every reasonable effort to advise the Contractor or his representative of his presence on  
the project.  
B. The craft job steward, if any, shall be a working employee appointed by the Union, who shall, in addition to his  
regularly assigned work, be permitted to perform during working hours, such of his steward duties, as outlined  
in Paragraph D. as cannot be performed otherwise. The Union agrees that such dutics shall be performed as  
expeditiously as possible and the Contractor agrees to allow the performance of such duties as herein set forth.  
The Union shal} notify the Contractor or his representative, in writing, of the appointment of a craft job  
steward, and send a copy to the Contractor’s home office address.  
C. It is recognized by the Contractor that the employee selected as the job steward shall remain on the job as long  
as there is work being performed in a classification in whieh he is qualified to perform, except that at the  
completion of the job, the Contractor shall not be required to retain the steward in lieu of the foreman or key  
man upon reduction in force. The Contractor or his representative, before laying off, or discharging the craft  
job steward for any cause other than stated in Paragraph D, below, shall notify the Union in writing of his intent  
to do so two full working days prior to such intended layoff or discharge. The Contractor or his representative  
will meet with the representative of the Union during this two day period and attempt to resolve the matter. The  
craft job steward shall not be discharged or laid off for the performance of his agreed upon duties when  
performed in accordance with this Article, or without just cause.  
D. To promote harmony between the Union and the individual Contractor, the craft job steward shall be limited to  
and not exceed the following duties and activities:  
1. Check the job referral of each employee dispatched under the terms of this Agreement to the Contractor.  
2. Work with the Contractor's designated representative in charge of the job in an attempt to resolve  
disputes prior to the application of the grievance procedure.  
3. Report to the designated representative any employee covered by this Agreement who  
works for less than the negotiated wage scale, for less than the overtime rate or who goes to work  
without a referral. AGG SS  
### CALIFORNIA  
4. Report to the Contractor's designated representative any work belonging to his craft being done by non- ASSOCIATED  
### a GENERAL  
dispatched men or by workmen of another craft. CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
    
   
2003 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 20  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
5. Report te his Business Representative infractions of the Agreement which have not been resolved  
between himself and the Contractor’s designated representative.  
6. Make acomplete job check during working hours no more often than once a week.  
7. Business Representative any employee covered by this Agreement who leaves the jobsite  
without giving the Contractor and the craft job steward prior notice.  
8. Report any reckless or unsafe employees covered by this Agreement on the jobsite to the Contractor's  
designated representative or his Business Representative.  
9. Thecraft job steward shall not:  
a. Stop the work for any reason.  
b. Tell any workman or any employee covered by this Agreement that he cannot work on the job.  
c. Initiate any physical with any person on the jobsite.  
10. Infraction of any of the rules in subparagraph 9 shall be cause for immediate dismissal of the craft job  
steward without any prior notice and this shall he the exclusive remedy for a violation of this section.  
11. Any dispute in connection with this Article VII shall be referred to the Grievance and Arbitrations  
procedure of this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE Vill  
### Classifications  
A.  
Should the Contractor or any subcontractors, as defined in Article [ and V of this Agreement employ employees  
in the prosecution of this work in occupations or upon equipment which is not covered by one of the classifica-  
tions herein specified. such employment shall, within three working days after a work assignment is made, or  
the equipment is operated, be temporarily classified by the appropriate Contractor Association and the Union  
under the classifications contained herein which more nearly fit the particular character of the employment.  
Temporary classifications and wage rates shall be immediately referred to the Laborers’ Joint Adjustment  
Board which shall review and recommend usage of the proper classifications and wage rates. Either party  
shall thereafter have the right to submit a dispute under this section in the manner set forth in Article VI of this  
### Agreement.  
The number of employees and the number of classifications of employees required to perform any operation  
covered by this Agreement shall be determined by the Contractor, provided that if a Contractor, in determining  
the number of employees, or the number of classifications of employees, shall tessen the number of employees or  
the number of classifications customarily used to perform any such operation, the Union may have the tssue of  
such reduction in employees or in classifications determined by the grievance and arbitration procedure  
provided in Article VI of this Agreement. In determining such disputes, consideration shall be given to the  
necessity for additional employees or classifications as well as other pertinent factors.  
Because the Contractors and the Union recognize the necessity of eliminating restrictions on production and  
promoting efficiency, nothing shall be permitted that restricts production or increases the time required to do  
the work, and no limitation shall be placed upon the amount of work which an employee shall perform, nor shall  
there be any restriction against the use of any kind of machinery, tools. or labor-saving devices, provided,  
however, that such machinery or power equipment shall be furnished by the Contractor. and provided further  
that no employee shall be required to work under any conditions that are injurtous to his health or safety or in  
conflict with a present well-established custom regulating such use where the work is being performed.  
   
The Contractor agrees to recognize and observe craft jurisdiction insofar as possible and practicable and that  
wage scales apply to classifications rather than to men, and the Union agrees to permit the occasional or  
temporary transfer of employees from one classification to any other classification: provided that, when such  
transfers are made, the employee shall be paid for the entire day on the basis of the rate of the highest paid  
classification in which he worked during the day. When such transfers invoive the classifications of more than  
one craft, it shall not be necessary for the operation of this policy that employees be referred to a project by more  
than one Union or employed at classifications of more than one craft. Abuse by any Contractor of the privilege  
granted in this paragraph D, Article VHI, shall subjcet him to withdrawat of the privilege for an appropriate  
period through the procedures established in Article VI of this Agreement.  
Each employee employed in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall receive wages based upon the  
minimum hourly wage rates specified in Article XIX of this Agreement calculated by the number of hours he  
was employed, less all legal deductions. Any other method of paying the employees, such as the use of piece  
work, bonus systems or lumping of the work, shall be deemed a violation of this Agreement. Grievances shall  
be settled in accordance with Article VI of this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### Qualifications  
A.  
Each of the parties hereto warrants and agrees that it is under no disability of any kind whether arising out of  
the provisions of its Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, By-Laws, or otherwise, that will prevent it from  
fully and completely carrying out and performing each and all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and  
further, that it will not, by the adoption or amendment of any provisions of its Articles of Incorporation,  
Constitution, or By-Laws, or by contract or by any means whatsoever, take any action that will prevent or  
impede it in the full and complete performance of each and every term and condition hereof. The warranties  
and agreements contained in this paragraph are made by each of the signatories hereto on his own behalf and  
on behalf of each organization for which it is acting hereunder. The individuals signing this Agreement in their  
official capacity and the signatories hereto hereby guarantee and warrant their authority to act for and bind  
the respective parties or organizations and each of their eligible members and the Union on whose behalf the  
said parties are signing the said Agreement.  
Nothing contained in any other Agreement wili change the conditions as set forth in this Agreement pertaining  
to use of equipment or the working rules and classifications of employees when said equipment is owned by the  
Contractor and operated or used on any work on which he is the prime or subcontractor. Nothing contained in  
this Agreement shall relieve any Contractor or subcontractor from his contractual obligations under such other  
agreements.  
No agent or representative of either party has authority to make, and none of the parties shall be bound by nor  
liable for, any statement, representation, promise, inducement or agreement not set forth herein. Any provision  
in the working rules of the Union with reference to the relations between the Contractors and their employees,  
in conflict with the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to be waived and any such rules or regulations  
whieh may hereinafter be adopted by the Union shali have no application to the work covered herein.  
### ARTICLE X  
### Existing and Other Agreements  
A.  
In the event the Union establishes special conditions for work covered by this Agreement, those special condi-  
tions shall be made availahle to the Contractor or individual Contractors who wish to perform the designated  
work in the same locality.  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 21  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 22  
### AIK  
ve  
### AGC  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
    
B. The Union will promptly notify the Employer in writing of any amendment, modification, exception or adden-  
dum of this Agreement which might be negotiated in any area covered by this Agreement between the Union, an  
individual! employer or group of individual employers. No contractor signatory hereto shall be required to pay  
higher wages or be subject to less favorable working conditions than those appticable to other Contractors  
employing workers covered by the terms of this Agreement.  
C. The provisions of the article wil! not apply to special projects, jobsite Agreements or MBE/WBE/DBE public  
works Agreements which may be negotiated in any area covered by Agreements.  
D. This Agreement shall be deemed to be executed when the parties signing shall have affixed their signatures  
hereto. Before accepting as an affiliate or issuing a charter to a focal Union in the area herein defined, the  
Union shall he required as a condition of such affiliation that said local Union be bound by the terms hereof.  
### ARTICLE XI  
### General Saving Clause  
Itis not the intent of either the Contractors or the Union to violate any laws, rulings or regulations of any Governmental  
authority or agency having jurisdiction of the subject matter of this Agreement, and the Contractor and the Union agree  
that, in the event any provision of this Agreement is finally held or-determined to be illegal or void, as being in  
contravention of any such laws, rulings, or regulations, the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full force and  
effect, unless the part so found to he void is wholly inseparable from the remaining portion of this Agreement. The  
Contractors and the Union agree that if and when any provision of this Agreement is held or determined to be illegal or  
void, they will then promptly enter into lawful negotiations concerning the substance thereof. In the event the parties  
are unable to reach agreement within sixty (60) days following the beginning of such negotiations the parties agree to  
submit the issue to final and binding arbitration. Selection of an arbitrator shall be made in the manner prescribed in  
Article V1 of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall render decisions only on the specific issue submitted to him, and shall  
have no authority to change or abrogate other conditions of this Agreement. Any fees and/or expenses of the Arbitrator  
shall be borne hy and divided equally by the Union and the Contractors. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and  
binding on the parties. The no-strike, no lockout provisions of Article IV shall not apply if either party fails to comply  
with the decision of the Arbitrator.  
### ARTICLE XII  
### Term, Termination and Renewal  
The term of this Agreement is July 1, 2003, to June 30, 2006, and from year to year thereafter unless either the Union  
or the Associations give written notice received by the others not less than sixty (60) days prior to June 30, 2006, or sixty  
(60) days prior to June 30 of any subsequent year, of a desire to change, amend, modify, or terminate the Agreement.  
### ARTICLE Xill  
### Equal Employment Opportunity  
A The Employer and the Union will not discriminate against any person with regard to employment or Union  
membership because of his race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin, or ancestry and hereby declare their  
acceptance and support of existing laws. This shall apply to hiring, placement, training during employment,  
rates of pay or other forms of compensation, layoff or termination, and application for admission to Union  
membership, A violation of this paragraph shall be subject to the grievance procedure but not subject to the  
hearing procedure before the Joint Adjustment Board or contained in Article VI.  
B. If the Union is unable to refer applicants for employment to an employer in sufficient number. or sufficient type.  
from the groups represented within the local area as may be necessary to enable the Employer to fully comply  
   
with minority or female hiring requirements imposed by its construction contract with any Federal, State or  
governmental body, commission or agency or to enable the employer tu fully comply with all Federal and State  
Laws, Presidential] Executive Orders, regulations, rules, directives or orders which cover hiring and which are  
applicable to the Employer, the Employer may directly recruit from any source such number of minority or  
female applicants acceptable to the Employer as may be necessary to satisfy the Employer's needs to effect such  
compliance. As an exception to the dispatch procedures in Article III, the Union may dispatch workers who are  
not next in order, to aid the in complying with government requirements.  
The Employer shall submit to the Union. in writing, any such request for minority or female applicants for  
employment, together with a copy of the order, directive, rules or regulations pursuant to any such Presidential  
Executive Order, Federal, State or local law; the Construction project number: and a copy of the compliance  
order.  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### Pre-joh Conference  
A.  
Itis agreed there will be a pre-job conference prior to the start of any job or project at the option of either party  
where the agreed or estimated cost is onc million dollars (51,000,000.00) or more.  
If the Contractor is a member of a signatory Association, the pre-job conference will be arranged through the  
appropriate Association with the Building and Construction Trades Council or a Union having jurisdiction over  
the work in the area of the project.  
The individual Contractor shall, upon request, advise the Union, in writing, of the names and addresses of all  
subcontractors employed or contracted with for services to he performed under this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### Laborers’ Foremen  
A.  
The selection of the employee who will be the Laborer Foreman is at the sole discretion of the Contractor. Where  
the employees of the Contractor employed on the project are predominantly Laborers and performing Laborers’  
work, the employee selected by the Employer to be Foreman shall he an employee employed under the terms of  
this Agreement and shall receive the Laborer Foreman’s wage rate. The Laborer Foreman may work with the  
tools of the trade in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph C, Article of this Agreement. As an  
exception to the dispatch procedures contained in Article lil, the Union may dispatch workers requested by the  
Contractor as a Laborer Foreman, who are not next in order on the out of work list.  
Only Laborer Foremen who normally work with the tools of the trade during straight time periods, in addition  
to the performance of Foreman duties, may work with the tools of the trade during overtime periods. The need  
for and the number of Laborer Foremen required for the performance of the work shal! be determined in  
accordance with the provisions of Paragraph B, Article VIII of this Agreement. Itis understood that in certain  
cases, by reason of custom and practice established by the parties hereto, a Foreman may be over the work and  
employees of more than one craft. Ifa dispute arises with respect to the application of this understanding, such  
dispute shal! be determined according to the procedure set forth in Article VI of this Agreement on the basis of  
such custom and practice.  
In the event the Contractor, at his option, elects to use a Laborer Foreman to supervise other Laborer Foremen,  
he shall be paid not less than one dollar ($t.00) per hour more than the hourly rate of the highest classified  
Laborer Foreman over whom he has leadership.  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Paye 23  
   
### AGC  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 24  
### AGC  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
D. Except in case of emergency, if any of the employees not covered by this Agreement as set forth in Paragraph A,  
Article II of this Agreement such as superintendents, assistant superintendents or master mechanics, shail act  
in the capacity of a Laborer Foreman or work with the Laborers’ tools or at classifications in the Laborers’  
category, he shall be an employee under the jurisdiction of the Union.  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### Holidays, Payment of Wages, Mea! Periods  
A. Holidays  
The following holidays shall be chserved on the date designated by Federal Law: New Year's Day, Memorial Day,  
Independence Day, Labor Day, Veterans’ Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving Day, and Christinas Day. If  
any of the above holidays should fall on Sunday, the Monday following shal] be considered a legal heliday. Work on such  
days shall be paid for at the holiday overtime rate provided herein, No work shall be performed on Labor Day except in  
case of extreme urgency when life or property is in imminent danger.  
B. Payment of Wages  
A.  
wr  
All wages shall be paid on a designated weekly payday and in no event shall the Contractor withhold  
more than five (5) working days. If the regular payday falls on a holiday, the employees shall be paid on  
the next regular workday. Employees shall be paid prior to the ending of their regular shift. In the event  
an employee is not paid prior to the ending of his regular scheduled shift, he shall be compensated in  
increments of one-half (4) hour at the applicable overtime rate until such time as he does receive his pay.  
When men are laid off or discharged, they must be paid wages due them at the time of layoff or  
discharge. At such times as an employee is paid, he shall be furnished a personal record, showing  
Straight time and overtime hours paid and all deductions itemized for the current pay period. Such  
record shal! show the employee's name, and the name and address. In the event the  
Employer fails to pay employees laid off or discharged, they shall be paid waiting time at the straight  
time rate of eight (8) hours per day, five (5) days per week, until the time such payment has been made.  
An employee who quits shall be mailed his pay in full by certified mail to his last known address within  
seventy-two (72) hours, or be paid prior to leaving the job or project. In the event these stipulations are  
not met, he shall receive waiting time as noted above.  
If a Contractor pays an employee by check, draft or voucher, which check, draft or voucher is subse-  
quently refused payment because the Contractor has no account with the bank, institution or person on  
which drawn, or insufficient funds to his account at the time of presentation, the Contractor shall be  
required to issue only certified checks for all employees working under this Agreement on that jub for the  
duration of the job on which said check was issued, and shall reimburse the employee immediately by  
certified check for the insufficient fund check issued and for the bank charges assessed.  
When employees covered under the terms of this Agreement are employed at a higher rate of pay than the  
minimum established herein during any shift, the higher rate of pay shall apply on all time worked  
during that day.  
The Employer shall not discharge or discriminate against an employee under this Agreement because of  
any industrial injury incurred prior to employment, or the filing of a claim for worker's compensation  
benefits.  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 25  
   
7. When anemployee is injured while at work to the extent of being unable to work for the balance of the  
day, he shail be paid for a full day at his regular rate. His ability to work or not to work shall be  
determined by a qualified physician.  
C. Meal Pertod  
Employees shall not work more than five (5) hours without a one-half (4) hour meal period. When employees  
work over five (5) hours without being provided with a one-half (2) hour meal period, they shall receive one-half (4)  
hour pay at the double time rate (2), in addition to their normal straight time shift period of eight (8) hours. When an  
employee is required to work more than three (3) hours after his regular shift, he will be entitled to a one-half (’4) hour  
meal period at the end of the three (3) hours without loss of pay and an additional half (4) hour each five (5) hours  
thereafter, without toss of pay. In the event an employee is required to work through an overtime meal period, then the  
employee shall receive pay for an additional one-half (2) hour at the double time rate. Meal periods may be staggered  
to meet job requirements.  
D. Breaks  
The parties to this agreement recognize Industrial Wage Order 16-2001 covering “On Site Construction, Mining, Drilling  
and Logging Industries.” Any dispute or grievance arising from the Wage Order shall be processed under and in  
accordance with Article VI, Procedures for Settlement of Grievances and Disputes of this agreement.” Wherever the  
Wage Order refers to collective bargaining agreements, this Master Labor Agreement shall be deemed to satisfy all of  
the requirements for treatment as a qualified collective hargaining agreement.  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### Safety, Rest Perlods, Parking, Drinking Water, Jobsite Transportation,  
Signing of Documents  
A. Safety  
The Unions shall cooperate (1) with the individual Contractor and with each other in carrying out all of the individual  
Contractor’s safety measures and practices for accident prevention, and (2) employees shall perform their duties in  
each operation in such a manner as to promote efficient operations of each particular duty and of any jobas a whole. The  
individual Contractors must post the name and address of their doctor and the compensation insurance carrier on the  
jobsite.  
1. Anemployee who has been found, through the grievance procedure, to have been unjustifiably disciplined  
or discharged for refusing to perform work which would endanger his heaith or safety, or the health or  
safety of any other employee. shall be reinstated in his former classification. This is net to be construed  
as a waiver of the employee’s rights under Section 502 of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947,  
as amended.  
2. The Contractor shall be solely responsible for implementation and maintenance of such safety laws,  
rules, regulations, standards, orders and decisions. Neither the Union nor any tocal Unions or District  
Councils are responsible for such implementation or maintenance.  
     
3. After July t. 2000, all graduates of a Laborers Training Program shail receive that they CE  
have successfully completed the Basic Safety Course to be developed by the Laborers Training and AGC  
Retraining Trust Fund of Southern California. Such certification will be at no cost to the Employer. CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 26  
   
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
B. Rest Periods  
1. Employees shall be given a rest period of not less than six (6) hours between the termination of any  
overtime work, except for pre-shift overtime work up to a maximum of eight (8) hours, and the com-  
meneement of another straight time shift. unless performing emergency work which is not considered a  
norma! job  
2.  Ifemployees do not receive the required six (6) hours’ rest period, they shall be paid at the applicable  
overtime rate for each hour worked until they receive six (6) hours’ rest off the job or project, regardless  
if a new workday starts or not.  
C. Parking  
In the event free parking facilities are not available within three hundred and fifty (850) yards of a jobsite, the individual  
Employer will provide such facilities and the individual Employer shall have the right to designate parking areas to be  
used. Where, because of congested parking conditions, tt is necessary to use public facilities, the Employer shall  
reimburse the employee for the cost of such parking upon being presented with a receipt or voucher certifying to the cost  
thereof, such reimbursement to be made on a weekly basis or at the conclusion of the project, whichever occurs eartier.  
Designated parking areas shall be reasonably tevel and graded to drain.  
D. Drinking Water  
The Contractor shall furnish cool and potable drinking water in sufficient quantities for the needs of the employees and  
make available sanitary drinking cups and adequate toilet facilities in accordance with California State Law.  
E. Jobsite Transportation  
Whenever, because of remoteness of parking areas, hazardous road conditions or security restrictions, the Employer is  
required to furnish transportation for men within the jobsite to the place of their “work”, this transportation shall be  
equipped with seats and handrails.  
E Signing of Documents  
Workmen and/or employees shall not be required to sign any decuments other than those required by law. Under no  
circumstances will an be required to sign any other document and the Union shal! not be held in violation of this  
Agreement for ceasing to work on a job or project where such demand is made by the Employer.  
### ARTICLE XVill  
### Working Rules for Laborers  
The following working rules shall cover the employment of Laborers performing any work covered by the terms of this  
Agreement in the area of Southern California as described in Paragraph B, Article 1, of this Agreement.  
### A. Shifts:  
1, Eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, between 5:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., shall constitute  
a day's work. Forty (40) hours Monday 5:00 a.m. through Friday 5:00 p.m. shall constitute a week’s  
work.  
   
   
The starting time of single shifts shall be at 5:00 a.m., 5:30 a.m., 6:00 a.m., 6:30 a.m., 7:00 a.m., 7:30  
a.m., or 8:00 a.m., Monday through Friday. Starting times may be changed to meet job requirements,  
including maximum utilization of daylight hours. Telephunie notice shail be given to the Union in cases  
of deviation from the original starting time, followed by written confirmation.  
All time worked before 5:00 a.m. and after 5:00 p.m., or all time worked in excess of eight (8) consecutive  
hours, exclusive of meal period. and all work performed on Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays, shat! be  
paid at the applicable overtime rate.  
Multiple Shifts:  
When so elected by the Contractor, multiple shifts may be worked for three (3) or more consecutive  
working days, provided that the Union is notified in writing twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the  
effective date of the starting of such multiple shift operations, provided however, that men working on  
multiple shifts sha!| not be interchangeable with those working on a single shift basis. All employees on  
muitipte or single shifts commencing work prior to the established starting time, shall be paid at the  
applicable overtime rate. In no event shall the regular working hours of different shifts overlap nor shall  
any interval between shifts exceed the reasonable time necessary to change shifts, and in no event shall  
such interval exceed one (1) hour. except when a spectal shift is established in accordance with Para-  
graph F Special Shifts.  
(a) It is understood that a single and a multiple shift may work concurrently on a project.  
When two (2) or three (3) shifts are worked, the first and second shift shall work eight (8) consecutive  
hours, exclusive of meal period, for which eight (8) hours of straight time shall he paid Monday through  
Friday and the third shift shall work seven (7) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period for which  
eight (8) hours straight time shall be paid, Monday through Friday. All time worked or hours paid for,  
after seven (7) hours worked or paid for, on the third shift, in one (1) day on Saturday, Sunday and  
holidays shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate.  
Any time worked from Friday midnight to Sunday midnight, or on holidays or in excess of the regular  
shift hours or hours paid for shall be paid at the appropriate Craft Overtime Rate, except as provided in  
Paragraph 4 of this Paragraph B.  
The Friday graveyard shift ending on Saturday morning will be considered Friday work. The Saturday  
graveyard shift ending Sunday morning will be considered Saturday work. The Sunday graveyard shift  
ending on Monday morning will be considered Sunday work.  
When so elected by the Contractor, a single shift starting at 5:00 a.m., 5:30 a.m., 6:00 a.m., 6:30 a.m.,  
7:00 a.m., 7:30 a.m. or 8:00 a.m.. of four (4) ten (10) hour days may be worked for eight (8) or more  
consecutive days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, provided the Union is notified in writing  
twenty four (24) hours in advance of the effective date of the starting of such shift. All employees  
working this shift shall work ten consecutive hours, exclusive of mea! period, for which ten (10) hours of  
straight time shall he paid Monday through Friday. All time worked before 6:00 a.m. or in excess of ten  
(10) hours in any one (1) day shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate. All hours worked in  
excess of forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate. Written notice  
shall be given to the Union in cases of deviation from the original starting time.  
The provisions of Paragraph C will apply onlyif the Carpenters, Cement Masons, Operating Engincers  
and Teamsters who have members working on the job or project for the Contractor agree to the same  
provisions as outlined in the preceding Paragraph.  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 27  
      
### SY  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 28  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
  
3.  
If the Contractor works for a period of less than eight (8) days, employees will then be paid at the  
apprupriate overtime rate for all hours in excess of eight (8) hours for the days worked.  
In the event, due to inclement weather or similar Act of God, it is not reasonably possible to complete forty (40)  
hours of work, on either an cight (8) hour day shift or ten (10) hour day shift, as outlined in Paragraphs A or  
C of this Article, Monday through Friday, then the balance of the forty (40) hours may he worked on Saturday  
at the straight time rate. No employee will be terminated for refusing to work on Saturday at the straight time  
rate of pay.  
It is agreed that the contractor and the Union may mutually agree, by telephone to be followed in writing, upon  
different starting or quitting times for any of the above shift arrangements.  
Special Shifts:  
1.  
When the Contractor produces evidence in writing to the Union of a bonafide job requirement that work  
can only be performed outside or in addition to, the regular day shift due to safety conditions or other  
requirements, an employee shall work eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which he  
shall receive eight (8) hours pay at the straight time rate of pay, Monday through Friday. All time worked  
or hours paid for Saturday, Sunday and holidays shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate. In  
addition. when the above conditions exist and it is necessary to begin or end a shift during the hours  
specified in paragraph B.4 of this Article (for Sunday work) in order for an employee to complete a forty  
(40) hour work week, the overtime rate will not apply, otherwise, al] time worked or hours paid for  
Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays and hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours, shall be paid for at the  
appropriate overtime rate. It is agreed, however, in the operation of this shift, no employee will lose a  
shift’s work. Employees working this special Sunday shift shall receive fifty cents ($.50) per hour in  
addition to his regular rate of pay.  
If maintenance or remodeling work cannot be performed on the regular shift heeause of the fact that  
establishments cannot suspend operations during the day, a special single shift may be employed  
starting at a time designated by operations of the establishment, Monday through Friday. The employees  
on this shift will work eight consecutive hours exclusive of meal period for which they shall receive eight  
(8) hours pay at the straight time rate.  
Tide Work Schedule:  
The following provisions shall apply to employees on jobs working a single shift only.  
1.  
When employees are called out to work broken time or tide work, Monday through Friday, the minimum  
pay for such work shall be eight (8) hours at the applicable, regular straight- time rate. Subject to the  
above minimum, in computing the time to be paid for under this provision, eight (8) hours or less worked  
between 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. shail be paid for at the applicable straight-time rate, and time in excess  
of eight (8) hours worked between 7:00 a.m, and 5:00 p.m., and any time worked before 7:00 a.m. or  
after 5:00 p.m. shall be paid for at the applicable overtime rate.  
When employees are called out to work broken time or tide work on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, the  
minimum pay for such work shall be eight (8) hours at the applicable overtime rate.  
   
   
H.  
When it is mutually agreed that an emergency exists, such as earthquakes, floods or fire, the starting time for the shift  
may be made to fit the emergency and eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period may be worked at the straight  
time rate. All other terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply.  
L. Subsistence  
1. Subsistence shall be paid at the rate of forty-five dollars ($45.00) per scheduled workday. There shall be  
no prorating of subsistence. Subsistence shall apply to workmen and/or employees who report to work  
and for whom no work is provided.  
2. Subsistence as provided in Paragraph I-1 hereof shall be paid on jobs on the following offshore islands:  
Richardson Reck San Miguel [sland  
Santa Cruz Island Santa Barbara [sland  
Arch Rock San Clemente [sland  
. San Nicholas Island Santa Rosa Island  
Santa Catalina Island Anacapa Island  
(a) Employees reporting at the embarkation point for travel to the above named tslands shall be  
paid travel time from the mainland to the islands and return at the straight-time rate and in no  
event shall the travel time be less than one (1) hour regardless of mode of travel.  
3. In lieu of subsistence, the Contractor may provide and maintain acceptable room and board on or  
immediately adjacent to the project seven (7) days per week in compliance with California State Laws.  
J. Employees shall travel to and from their daily initial reperting place on their own time and by means of their  
own transportation. The Contractor shall be responsible for payment of wages from the reporting puint, as  
ordered by the Contractor, to the jobsite and from job to job and return. However. employees who voluntarily  
report to a point for free transportation to the jobsite will not be compensated from the time en route and return.  
For offshore work, employees will reccive travel pay at straight-time rates from port of embarkation to jobsite  
and from jobsite to dcbarkation regardless of mode of transportation, which transportation shail be at the  
Contractor’s expense. If no camp is furnished by the Contractor, such transportation shall be furnished daily.  
K, Workmen referred under Article III to the Contractor's job who arrive in an unfit condition for work, without a  
written dispatch slip from the employment facility, without the proper documentation as set forth on INS I-3  
Form. or who are not ready to go to work or who are not otherwise qualified in accordance with their written  
dispateh slip from the employment facility shall not be paid show-up time or subsistence. Grievances or  
disputes arising out of the interpretation or application of this particular paragraph shall be referred to the  
procedure for sett!ement of grievances and disputes.  
L. Any time worked on Saturday, Sunday or holidays outside of the shift hours provided in the Agreement shall be  
paid for on the basis of the actual hours worked at the Laborers’ overtime rate, except that any workmen or  
employees reporting for work at the stipulated time and for whom no work is provided shail receive pay for two  
(2) hours at the overtime rate; any workmen or employees who report for work and for whom work is provided  
shall receive not less than four (4) hours’ pay at the overtime rate; and if an employee works more than four (4)  
hours, he shall be paid for the actual hours worked at the overtime rate.  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 29  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### GONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 30  
M. 1. Any workman or employee reporting for work at the regular starting time and for whom no work is  
provided, shall receive pay for two (2) hours at the stipulated rate fur so reporting, unless he has heen  
notified before the end of his last preceding shiit not to report; and any workman or employee who  
reports for work ane for whom work is provided shall receive not less than four (4) hours’ pay: and if  
more than four (4) hours are worked in any one day, he shall receive not less than a full day’s pay  
therefor, unless prevented from working for reasons beyond the control of the Contractor, including, but  
not limited by, such factors as inclement weather, a breakdown causing discontinuance of a major unit  
of the project during which time workmen or employecs are not required or requested to remain on the  
project by the Contractor or his agent. New employees on their first day of work shall be paid for their  
actual time worked.  
2. Onconcrete coring and concrete sawing operations, only, any employee reporting for work and for whom  
no work is provided shall receive pay for two (2) hours at the stipulated rate for so reporting, unless he  
has been notified before the end of his last preceding shift not to report; and any workman or employee  
who reports for work and for whom work is provided shall receive not less than four (4) hours pay, and  
if more than four (4) hours are worked in any one (1) day, he shall receive not less than six (6) hours pay,  
and if more than six (6) hours work is provided, he shall reecive not less than eight (8) hours pay.  
N. | Whenitis necessary to shut down a job or project hecause of a bomb threat, employees will be compensated as  
follows:  
(a) ‘If such an event occurs before the regular starting time, all workmen or employees who have not been  
notified not to appear for work and who show up at the jobsite shall receive two (2) hours’ pay and  
subsistence at the applicable rate.  
(b) In order to qualify for this two (2) hours’ pay (and subsistence if applicable), the employee and/or  
workman must remain on the job available for work during the two (2) hour period of time for which he  
receives pay unless released sooner by the employer or his representative. Time spent ina holding area  
as directed by the Contractor shall be considered as time worked and paid accordingly.  
0. Flagmen shall be entitled to adequate relief for the use of toilet facilities.  
Pp. The Contractor shall be required to furnish goggles and/or hard hats where needed. When employces are  
required to work outside in the rain or snow, they shall be furnished rain coats, rain hats and boots. Employees  
working in or handling cement or concrete shall be furnished rubber boots and gloves. Employees required to  
work in mud, slush or water shall be furnished boots and other necessary waterproof clothing. The employee  
Shall return alt such clothing of the Contractor in the same condition as received, subject to reasonable wear  
and tear. Such equipment shall be sanitized before reissue. The employee shall sign for receipt of such  
protective clothing and on signed authorization the reasonable value of such protective clothing may be de-  
ducted from the employee's pay check. Upon return of the protective clothing. the employee shall be reimbursed  
in the amount of the deduction.  
### ARTICLE XIX  
        
The following hourly wage rates shall apply to the following classifications on all work covered by the terms of this  
ACCS Agreement:  
### CALIFORNIA  
ASSOCIATED A, Overtime Rates:  
### GENERAL  
CONTRACTORS Time and one-half, except hours worked over 12 in a single workday, Sundays and Holidays, which are double (2) time.  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
B. Watchmen:  
Watchmen shall work eight (8) consecutive hours per day, exclusive of lunch period, and forty (40) hours per week,  
Monday through Sunday, at straight-time rates, provided they receive their two-day rest period consecutively. Watch-  
men shall receive time and one-half for all time worked in excess of cight (8) hours per day and for the sixth consecutive  
day worked. and double time for the seventh consecutive day worked. Watchmen shall also receive time and one-half for  
holidays, except where a holiday falts on the seventh consecutive day worked, which shail be double time. This provision  
shall be applicable to persons whose principal function is to tend patro! dogs at the jobsite but shail not include services  
exclusively of delivery and retrieval of the dogs.  
C. Health and Welfare:  
1. Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement agree to pay to the Laborers’ Health and Welfare  
Trust Fund for Southern California the sum designated in Attachment #1 of this Agreement for each  
hour worked or paid for on all classifications contained in this Agreement.  
2. . The Contractor may make voluntary contributions on behalf of supervisory employees above the rank of  
craft foreman in the amounts and manner to be determined by the Trustees.  
3. Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement approve and consent to the appointment of the  
Trustees designated by the Laborers’ Health and Welfare Trust Agreement for Southern California and  
further ratify, confirm and consent to all acts heretofore taken in the creation and administration of said  
Trust by the joint Trustees, its agents and representatives, and agree to be bound by all the terms,  
conditions, provisions, privileges and obligations provided for by said Agreement and Declaration of  
Trust as same may be constituted in its original form, as amended, and as may be subsequently  
amended.  
D. Pension:  
1. Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement agree to pay to the Construction Laborers’ Pension  
Trust Fund for Southern California the sum designated in Attachment #1 of this Agreement for each  
hour worked or paid for on all classifications contained in this Agreement.  
2. The Contractor may make voluntary contributions on behalf of supervisory employees above the rank of  
craft foreman in the amounts and manner to be determined by the Trustees.  
3. Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement approve and consent to the appointinent of the  
Trustees designated by the Construction Laborers Pension Trust Agreement for Southern California and  
further ratify, confirm, and consent to all acts heretofore taken in the creation and administration of said  
Trust by the joint Trustees, its agents and representatives, and agree to be bound by all the terms,  
conditions, provisions, privileges and obligations provided for by said Agreement and Declaration of  
Trust as same may be constituted in its original form, as amended, and as may be subsequently  
amended.  
4. The Pension Trust Fund agreement will be amended to provide that the Trustees may not increase  
pension benefits during the life of the Agreement. Any increase in pension contributions will be directed  
to decrease the unfunded accrued liabilities. The establishment of an Annuity Trust Fund Agreement  
between the Contractors and the Union may be initiated at any time during the life of this Agreement by  
mutual consent.  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 31  
   
   
### AGC  
### CALI  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 32  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
I.  
   
Vacation:  
1. covered by the terms of this Agreement agree to pay to the Construction Laborers’ Vacation  
Trust Fund for Southern California the sum designated in Attachment #1 of this Agreement for each  
hour worked or paid for on all classifications contained in this Agreement.  
2. Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement approve and consent to the appointment of the  
* Trustees designated by the Construction Laborers’ Vacation Trust Agreement for Southern California  
and further ratify, confirm, and consent to all acts heretofore taken in the creation and administration  
of said Trust by the joint Trustees, its agents and representatives, and agree to be bound by all the terms,  
conditions, provisions, privileges and obligations provided for by said Agreement and Declaration of  
Trust as same may be constituted in its original form, as amended, and as may be subsequently  
amended.  
Training and Retraining:  
1. Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement agree to pay to the Laborers’ Training and Retrain-  
ing Trust Fund for Southern California the sum designated in Attachment #1 of this Agreement for each  
hour worked or paid for on all classifications contained in this Agreement.  
2. Contractors covered by the of this Agreement approve and consent to the appointment of the  
Trustees designated by the Laborers’ Training and Retraining Trust Agreement for Southern California  
and further ratify, confirm, and consent to all acts heretofore taken in the creation and administration  
of said Trust by the joint Trustees, its agents and representatives, and agree to be bound by all the terms,  
conditions, provisions, privileges and obligations provided for by said Agreement and Declaration of  
Trust as same may be constituted in its original form, as amended, and as may be subsequently  
amended.  
The collective bargaining parties direct the Trustees of the Laborers’ Health and Welfare Trust and the  
Construction Laborers’ Pension Trust for Southern to adopt procedures which will permit a retiree  
to authorize the Pension Trust to deduct lawfully from his pension benefits and to remit to the Health and  
Welfare Trust the amount of the retiree’s contribution to the Health and Welfare Trust should a retiree  
contribution be required by the Health and Welfare Trustees.  
Where the Contractor transfers key laborers out of the geographical area of this Agreement, to an area where  
the Contractor is not signatory to a Laborers’ Agreement, the Contractor shall contribute to the Trust Funds  
mentioned in this Agreement for all hours worked by or paid to such Key laborers for the duration of the job for  
which they were transferred.  
Foreman:  
Laborer Foremen employed in accordance with Article XV of this Agreement shall be paid not less than one dollar and  
fifty cents ($1.50) per hour more than the hourly wage rate of the highest classification over which they have  
leadership. In the event the Contractor, at his option, elects to use a Laborer Foreman to supervise other Laborer  
Foremen, he shall be paid not less than one dollar ($1.00) per hour more than the hourly rate of the highest classified  
Laborer Foreman over whom he has leadership.  
   
2003 - 2006  
  
Agreement  
Page 33  
   
J. Laborers’ Hourly Wage Scales  
July increases allocated as follows:  
$0.75 to Health & Welfare  
$0.55 to Pension *  
$0.10 is also reallocated from Training to Pension  
Classifications 07/01/03 07/01/04 07/01/05  
GROUP I $20.10 **$1.35 **$1.40  
Boring Machine Helper (outside)  
Cleaning and Handling of Panel Forms  
Concrete Screeding for Rough Strike-Off  
Concrete. Water Curing  
Concrete Curb and Gutter Laborer  
Certified Confined Space Laborer .  
Demolition Laborer, the cleaning of brick if performed by an employee  
performing any other phase of demolition work, and the cleaning of lumber  
Expansion Joint Caulking by any method (including preparation and clean-up)  
Environmental Remediation, Monitoring Well, Toxic waste, and Geotechnical Drill Helper  
Fiberoptic Installation, Blowing, Splicing, Testing and related work  
Fire Watcher, Limbers, Brush Loaders, Pilers and Debris Handlers  
Flagman  
Gas, Oil and/or Water Pipeline Laborer  
Laborer, Asphalt-Rubber Material Loader  
Laborer, Concrete  
Laborer, General or Cunstruction  
Laborer, Genera] Cleanup  
Laborer, Landscaping  
Laborer, Jetting  
Laborer, Temporary Water and Air Lines  
Material Hoseman (Walls, Slabs, Floors and Decks)  
Plugging, Filling of Shee-Bolt Holes; Dry Packing of Concrete and Patching;  
Post Hole Digger (manual)  
Railroad Maintenance, Repair Trackman and Road Beds; Streetcar  
and Railroad ConstructionTrack Laborers  
Rigging and Signaling  
ScalerSlip Form Raisers  
Filling of Cracks by any method on any surfaceTarman and Mortar Man  
Tool Crib or Tool House Laborer  
Traffic Control by any method (including assisting in the moving and  
installation of construction signs, barriers barricade, delineators, cones, ete.)  
Traffie Control Pilot Truck  
Water Well Drill Helper  
   
Window Cleaner  
Wire Mesh All Concrete Pouring Operations  
### . ASSOCIATED  
Vehicle Operator in connection with all Laborers work. GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 34  
   
AGC <2  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Classifications 07/01/03  
GROUP II $20.65  
Asbestos AbatementAsphait Shoveler  
Cement Dumper (on I yard or larger mixerand handling bulk ecment)  
Cesspool Digger and Installer  
Chucktender  
Chute Man, pouring concrete, the handling of the chute from readymix  
trucks, such as wails, slabs, decks, floors, foundations, footings,  
curbs, gutters and sidewalks  
Concrete Curer - Impervious Membrane and Form Oiler  
Cutting Torch Operator (Demolition)  
Fine Grader, Highways and Street Paving, AirportRunways, and  
similar type heavy construction  
Gas, Oil and/or Water Pipeline Wrapper Pot Tender and Form Man  
Grout Man (including forming, pouring, handling, mixing, finishing  
and cleanup of all types of grout)  
Guinea Chaser  
Headerboard Man - Asphalt  
Installation of al] Asphalt Overlay Fabric andMaterials used  
for Reinforcing Asphalt  
Irrigation LaborerLaborer, Packing Rod Steel and Pans  
Membrane Vapor Barrier Installer  
Power Broom Sweepers (small)  
Riprap, Stonepaver, placing stone or wet sacked conerete  
Roto Scraper and Tiller  
Sandblaster (Pot Tender)  
Septic Tank Digger and (leadman)  
Tank Sealer and Cleaner  
Tree Climber, Faller, Chain Saw Operator,  
Pittsburgh Chipper and similar type Brush Shredders  
Underground Laborers, including Caisson Bellower  
Classifications 07/01/03  
GROUP HI $21.20  
Asphalt, Installation of all fabrics  
Buggymobile Man  
Bushing Hammer  
Compactor (ail types including Tamper, Barko, Wacker)  
Concrete Cutting Torch  
Concrete Pile CutterDriller, Jackhammer, 2-1/2 feet drill steel or longer  
Dri Pak-it Machine  
Fence Erector  
Gas, Oil and/or Water Pipeline Wrapper - 6" Pipe and over by  
any method, inside and out  
Guardrail Erector  
High Sealer (inciuding drilling of same)  
07/01/03 07/01/05  
**$1.35 **31.40  
07/01/04  
  
   
   
Hydro Seeder and Similar Type  
Impact Wrench, Multi-Plate  
Kettlemen, Potmep and Men applying asphalt. lay-Kold, creosote. lime  
caustic and similar type materials (“applying” means applying, dipping.  
brushing or handling of such materials for pipe wrapping and waterproofing)  
Operators of Pneumatic, Gas, Electric Tools, Vibrating Machines, Pavement  
Breakers. Air Blasting, Come-Alongs, and similar mechanical tools not,  
separately classified hercin; operationof remote controlled robotic  
tools in connectionwith Laborers’ work  
Pipelayer's Backup Man, coating, grouting, making of joints, sealing,  
caulking, diapering and including rubber gasket joints, pointing and  
any and all other services  
Power Post Hole Digger  
Rock Slinger  
Rotary Scarifier or Multiple Head Concrete Chipping Scarifier  
Shot Blast Equipment Operator (8 to 48 inches)  
Small Skid Steer Loader  
Steel Headerboard Man and Guideline Setter  
Trenching Machine, Hand Propelled  
Classifications 07/01/03 07/01/04 07/01/05  
GROUP IV $22.75 **$31.35 **31.40  
Any Worker Exposed to Raw Sewage  
Asphalt Raker, Luteman, Ironer, Asphalt Dumpman and  
Asphalt Spreader Boxes (all types)  
Concrete Core Cutter (walls, floors or ceilings) Grinder or Sander  
Concrete Handworking by any method or means .  
Concrete Saw Man, Cutting Walls or Flat Work,Scoring old or new concrete  
Cribber, Shorer, Lagging, Sheeting and Trench Bracing,  
Hand-Guided Lagging Hammer  
Head Rock Slinger  
Installer of Subsurface Instrumentation, Monitoring Wells or Points,  
Remediation Systems Installer  
Laborer, Asphalt-Rubber Distributor Bootman  
Laser Beam in connection with Laborer’s work  
Oversize Concrete Vibrator Operator, 70 pounds and over  
Pipelayer performing all services in the laying, installation and ail forms  
of connection of pipe from the point of receiving pipe in the ditch until  
completion of operation, including any and all forms of tubular material,  
whether pipe, metallic or non-metallic, conduit, and any other stationary  
type of tubular device used for the conveying of any substance or element,  
whether water, sewage, solid, gas, air, or other product whatsoever  
and without regard to the nature of material from which the tubular material  
is fabricated; No-joint pipe and stripping of same: Industrial Pipefitter  
in connection with Laborers’ Work  
Prefabricated Manhole Installer  
Sandblaster (Nozzleman). Porta Shot - Blast, Water Blasting  
Traffic Lane Closure, Certified  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 35  
   
  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 36  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
Classifications 07/01/03  
$23.10  
Blasters Powderman - All work of loading holes,placing and blasting  
of all powder and explosives of whatever type, regardless  
of method used for such loading and placing  
Horizontal Directional Driller, Boring System Electronic Tracking  
Driller: All power drills, excluding Jackhammer, whether core, diamond,  
wagon, track, multiple unit, and any and all other types of mechanical  
drills without regard to the form of motive power  
Environmental, Remediation, Monitoring Well, Toxic Waste and Geotechnical Driller  
Toxic Waste RemovalWelding, certified or otherwise, in connection with Laborers’ Work  
Classifications 07/01/03  
GROUP VI ° $24.60  
Horizontal Directional Drill Locator and/or Foreman  
Watchman $18.11  
** To be allocated by the Union (includes $0.64 to Pension on 07/01/04 and $0.40 to Pension on07/01/05)  
Residential Work (See Appendix A for definition)  
Residential Wage Rates 07/01/03  
Cleanup, Landscaping, Fencing $18.57  
(Chain Link and Wood)  
All other work on residential as described in MLA $19.57  
Residential Fringe Benefit Contribution Rates 07/01/03  
Health & Welfare @ ALG  
### VACATION”  
### PONSION OLED  
Training & Retraining Ni $3 .26  
* Includes Supplemental Dues Contribution  
### FUTURE INCREASES: WATCHMAN AND RESIDENTIAL  
07/01/04: $1.35 to be allocated by the Union (includes $0.64 to Pension on 07/01/04)  
07/01/05: $1.40 to be allocated by the Union (includes $0.40 to Pension on 07/01/05)  
07/01/04  
**$1.35  
07/01/04  
**$1.35  
**31.35  
07/01/05  
**$1.40  
07/01/05  
**$1.40  
**31.40  
* Upon written notice to the Associations at least sixty (60) days prior to July 1 of any year, the Union may allocate all  
or a portion of the future increases to (1) Hourly wage rate; (2} Health and Welfare; (3) Pension; (4) Vacation; (5)  
Training and Retraining; (6) Supplemental Dues; (7) Center for Contract Compliance; (8) Any combination thereof.  
   
### ARTICLE XX  
### Fund tor Construction Industry Advancement  
A.  
The Parties to this Agreement recognize that to protect and expand the interests of the Construction Industry,  
to be aware of modes and methods of improving the efficiency of the industry and to protect the industry from  
harmful legislation whose impact is detrimental to both the employees and the Contractors and without regard  
to whether such employees are employed by members of Contractors the individual employer will contribute the  
sum of six cents ($0.06) per hour for all hours worked or paid for by all employees employed under the terms  
of this Agreement to the FUND FOR CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT, an employer established  
and adiinistered Trust formed and created for this purpose and the employer hereby adopts and  
agrees to be hound by the terms of that certain Trust Agreement establishing the FUND FOR CONSTRUCTION  
INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT, and further agrees to observe and be bound by the actions and determinations of  
the Board of Trustees of said Trust.  
It is understood that independent of any other provisions, contained in this Agreement which provide for its  
termination, ASSOCIATIONS shall have the right and power to cancel unilaterally the provisions, solely of this  
Article at anytime hy delivering notice to the Union in writing to that effect.  
The Fund for Construction Industry Advancement shall he used only for the purpose set forth in paragraph A  
and shall not be used for anti-labor or anti-employee purposes.  
### ARTICLE XXI  
### Contract Administration Fund  
A.  
A trust fund entitled “The Contract Administration Trust Fund for Southern California” shall be used only to  
provide compensation to the Contractors for negotiations and administration of the provisions of this Agree-  
ment, including Article VI, for the Industry. Individual Employers shall contribute into the Contract Adminis-  
tration Trust Fund six cents ($0.06) per hour for each hour paid for or worked and an additional two cents  
(30.02) per hour may be allocated by the Trustees during the life of this agreement. The trust fund shail be  
administered solely by Trustees selected hy the Contractors in accordance with a trust agreement to he  
executed by the contractors. The Union shall have the right, not more than one (1) time per year, to indepen-  
dently audit the Trust Fund.  
Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement approve and consent to the appointment of the Trustees  
designated pursuant to the Declaration of Trust establishing the Contract Administration Trust Fund for  
Southern California and further ratify, confirm, and consent to all acts heretofore taken in the creation and  
administration of said Trust by its Trustees, its agents and representatives. and agree to be bound by all the  
terms, conditions, provisions, privileges and obligations provided for by said Agreement and Declaration of  
Trust as same may he constituted in its original form, as amended, and as may be subsequently amended.  
### ARTICLE XXII  
### Center For Contract Compliance Trust Fund  
1.  
Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement agree to pay to the Center for Contract Compliance Trust  
Fund effective July 1, 2000, the sum of fifteen cents ($0.15) per hour for each hour worked or paid for on all  
classifications contained in this Agreement.  
Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement agree to he bound by all the terms and conditions of the  
Agreement and Declaration of Trust as they may be constituted in its original form and insofar as it may be  
amended.  
   
2003 - 2006  
  
Agreement  
Page 37  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 38  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
3.  
4.  
The parties agree that a review of the Center for Contract Compliance may be performed annually.  
This Article shall be subject to the Agreement of the parties on the language for the Agreement and Declaration  
of Trust.  
### ARTICLE XXIII  
### Delinquency and Collection Procedure  
A.  
The Trustees of the Trust Fund shall furnish the Contractor Associations and the Union with a list of delinquent  
contractors each month. Such list will also be available to all signatory contractors on request, subject to such  
reasonable cost as may be determined by the administrative office of the Trust Funds as representing the cost  
of duplication and transmission of such lists, payment for which to be nade in advance. The Contractor agrees  
he will not subcontract any portion of his job to any subcontractor whose name appears on the delinquent list  
until such subcontractor has paid all delinquent monies to the various Trust Funds. In the event the Contractor  
subcontracts to any such delinquent subcontractor in violation of the foregoing, the Contractor shall remove  
such subcontractor from the job immediately, unless such delinquent subcontractor immediately makes full  
payment for all to the Trusts.  
If the Contractor fails to remove the delinquent subcontractor, the Contractor shall become financially respon-  
sible for all fringe benefits owed to any funds established by this Agreement by the Contractor or by his  
subcontractor or the subcontractor of his subcontractor for work performed on the Contractor's job or project  
in accordance with the requirements set forth below.  
The teri “Contractor” for delinquency purposes only, shall include all entities of the delinquent contractor,  
change of nanie, or change of entity, provided that the delinquent contractor holds at least ten (10%) percent  
ownership in the new entity.  
In the event the Contractor subcontracts te a subcontractor that is not on the delinquency list at the time the  
subcontract is entered into, the Trust Office shail notify the Contractor of any delinquency of the subcontractor  
within ninety (90) days of the date the delinquency first occurred and in no case shall the Contractor be liable  
for fringe benefit contributions of a subcontractor for more than ninety (90) days prior to the date the Trust  
Office notice is sent to the Contractor.  
Where a Contractor contracts with a listed delinquent subcontractor or subcontractors, and the Contractor  
fails to terminate the subcontract of such delinquent subcontractor, or subcontractors, the contractor shall  
become financially responsible for the liability of the delinquent subcontractor’s fringe benefits on that job from  
the commencement of the work under the subcontract to the date of termination of that subcontract.  
The Trust Office shall send delinquency notices te Contractors whose contributions are not paid as required.  
The Trust Office shall notify the Union of those contractors who fail to pay within five (5) days of such notice and  
the Union shall within forty-eight (48) hours after receipt of such notice withhold service from the Contractor  
involved until contributions are paid or satisfactory arrangements made with the Trustees for payment.  
Any employce rendered unemployed by reason of the foregoing shall not be deemed engaged in a work stoppage  
or labor dispute but shall be deemed constructively laid off by the Contractor by failure to pay monies duc for  
the benefit of the employees. Contractor agrees that such employees are entitled to unemployment insurance  
and warrants that he will take no action to interfere with the employee's application for unemployment  
insurance. Any dispute in connection with this paragraph is subject to the grievance procedure.  
The Trust Office shall issue delinquency notices and clearances to Contractors confirmed in writing.  
   
   
2003 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 39  
All employees shall be covered by this Agreement and the provisions applicable to Trust Funds. The Trustees  
shall have authority to audit Contractor records to determine the appropriate contributions and shall have  
specific authority to examine the Contractor's records, including but not limited to payroll records, time cards,  
Federal W-2 Forms. 1099 and 1096 Forms. Quarterly State Tax returns and cash disbursement ledgers, all  
canceled checks, check registers and invoices. If requested by the Trusts, the Contractor shall provide payroll  
breakdown by job when a lawsuit has been filed against a contractor. The Trustees may file suit to enforce this  
obligation. and, if successful, shall recover their attorneys fees and costs. whether or not the audit reveals a  
delinquency. Any Contractor delinquent under this Article may be required by the Trust Funds to submit, in  
addition to regular reports, payroll breakdowns by job, and the failure to submit timely job breakdowns shall  
be considered a delinquency under this Article. If a Contractor refuses to furntsh the foregoing the Union may  
take economic action.  
It is recognized that a delinquency in contributions causes damages beyond the value of the unpaid contribu-  
tions, which are difficult to quantify. These damages include, hut are not limited to, the administrative costs of  
processing and collecting delinquencies, the costs of adjusting benefit credits and notifying participants, the  
additional burden placed on Contractors who faithfully pay their contributions, and the burden upon partici-  
pants and beneficiaries who may he unable to qualify for benefits they may have otherwise been entitled to but  
for the delinquency of the Contractor. Because these damages are difficult, if not impossible, to quantify on a  
case-by-case basis, the parties agree that liquidated damages, not a penalty, for such losses shall be set at the  
greater of $25or 20% of the contributions Jate or unpaid for each Trust Fund. The parties have reviewed the  
costs of collection by the Trust Funds, and agree that 20% liquidated damages is an accurate projection of the  
Trusts’ damages that result from a delinquency. In addition, any Contractor delinquent in its obligations under  
this Article shall be required to pay interest on the delinquent contributions (at a rate to be set by the Trustees  
of the Trust Funds), and any audit fees. In the event that litigation is neeessary to collect any delinquent  
contributions (including litigation to enforce mechanic liens, stop notices, bond claims or similar remedies, and  
any bankruptcy or receivership proceedings) or to enforce any obligation under this Article, in addition to  
liquidated damages owed by the delinquent Contractor, the Contractor shall also be liable for all reasonable  
attorney fees and legal costs incurred in such litigation. The Trustees of the Trust Funds may waive or reduce  
the amount of liquidated damages, at their sole discretion and consistent with their fiduciary duties. The  
decision of the Trustees in any request to waive or reduce liquidated damages shall be final and binding upon  
the parties.  
For the purposes of this Agreement. delinquency in failure to make the required reports and contributions to the  
Trust Fund as determined by the shall consist of the following:  
(a) Failure to submit trust report forms.  
(b) Failure to report on all employees.  
(c) Failure to make the payments as required on time.  
(¢4) Failure to pay audit amounts and audit fees and other costs and damages as determined by the Trust.  
(e) Failure of the hank to honor checks submitted.  
(}  Failureto pay monies due.  
(g} Failure to submit to an audit.  
In addition to any other remedies under this Article, the Union may terminate the participation of a delinquent  
contractor. Notice of such termination shall be sent to the Contractor, and each of the employees listed on the  
last report submitted by that Contractor, and shall be effective 30 days from such notice. Upon termination, no  
   
    
employee of the delinquent Contractor shall accrue credit for any benefits for hours worked for that Contractor. Age Ss  
However, termination shall not end or alter the obligations of the Contractor (or any Contractor subcontracting c ALIFORNI A  
to that Contractor) under this Article. In addition to any other damages under this Article, a Contractor so ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 40  
terminated shall be liable to the Trust Fund for the cost of notice, and shall be liable to its employees for the  
value of any benefits lost in an amount not exceeding the hourly contributions and liquidated damages that  
would otherwise have been due.  
### ARTICLE XXIV  
### Public Works Project Davis-Bacon Act and Related Statutes  
In the event an individual Employer bids a public job or project being awarded by a federal, state, county, city or public  
entity which is to be performed at a predetermined and/or prevailing wage rate established by the Secretary of the  
Department of Labor (pursuant to Public Law 74-403 as amended by Public Law 88-349 whose regulations are  
contained in 29 CFR Parts 1,3, 5 and 7, and which determinations are published in The Federal Register), or hy the  
Director of the California Division of Industrial Relations, or a County, City or other public entity and the established  
prevailing wage rate, including vacation contributions, is lower by no more than fifteen (15%) percent on residential or  
housing work or by no more than ten (10%) percent on any other type of work, than the Master Labor Agreement hourly  
wage rate (excluding fringe benefits) the published houriy wage rate, including vacation contributions, at the time of  
bid shall apply to the job or project for the duration of the job or project but in no cvent to excecd an eighteen (18) month  
period.  
In the event the job or project extends beyond cightecn (18) months, the wage rates, including vacation contributions,  
shall he increased thereafter to maintain the appropriate fifteen (15%) or ten (10%) percent differential under the then  
current Master Labor Agreement.  
Should the predetermined wage rate and the Master Labor Agreement rate be the same, it is agreed that rate shall be  
in effect for an eighteen (18) month period. On work that extends beyond eighteen (18) months, then the current Master  
Labor Agreement rate shall apply.  
If any public agency publishes prevailing wage and fringe benefit rates for Laborers classifications for a specific job or  
project which are less than the rates set-forth in the Master Lahor Agreement, and there are non-signatory prime  
bidders on the plan holders list, or if there is no bid list published, then the individual Employer may bid said project in  
accordance with the wage rates, fringe benefit rates and other applicable provisions of the Prevailing Wage Determina-  
tion incorporated in the bid specifications.  
### ARTICLE XXV  
### Laborer Joint Apprenticeship Committee  
A. The Contractors and the Union recognize the need for apprentice training and to this end shall indenture  
apprentices in conformity with California Labor Code Section 1777.5 governing employment of apprentices  
upon public work. Apprentices shall be employed in accordance with the Standards and guidelines as estab-  
lished by the Laborers Joint Apprenticeship Committee and approved by the Division of Apprenticeship Stan-  
dards. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply to Apprentices.  
B. The ratio of Apprentices to Journeymen shall be one Apprentice when at least five (5) Journeymen are regularly  
employed, and one (1) additional Apprentice for every five.(5) additional Journeymen.  
C. The Contractor will make an effort to keep Apprentices reasonably employed regardless of period status or  
advancenient to a higher period of pay.  
D. The Local Union, through the Joint Apprenticeship Committee. shall dispatch Apprentices to the Contractors.  
   
gra E. The Contractor shall pay to Apprentices the wages and to the Trust Funds the sums designated below for each  
CONTRACTORS hour worked or paid to Apprentices.  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
F The parties have agreed toa Memorandum of Understanding regarding Apprenticeship ratios.  
1. Apprentice wages shail be paid pursuant to the wage schedule set forth below and contained in the  
Apprenticeship Standards of the Joint Apprenticeship Committee, which is based on the following  
percentages of the Group V journcyman rate of $23.10:  
1" period 1 - 500 hours  
2" period 501 - 1000 hours  
3™ period 1001 - 1500 hours  
4"" period 1501 - 2000 hours  
5" period 2001 - 2500 hours  
6" period 2501 - 3000 hours  
*Anprentices shall receive the appropriate percentage of any increase to the journeyman wage during  
the term of this Agreement.  
2. The Contractor shall pay to the Laborers Trust Funds the sum designated below for each hour worked  
or paid for on all Apprentices.  
Trust Fund contributions for Apprentices*:  
Health & Welfare (70%)  
Pension (20%)  
Vacation/Supp. Dues. (70%)  
Training and Retraining (100%)  
C.C.C. (100%)  
Industry Fund (100%)  
shall receive the appropriate increase to the journeyman fringe benefit rate increases.  
### ARTICLE XXVI  
$2.91  
$0.86  
$1.79  
30.26  
$0.15  
$0.06  
Drug and Alcchol Abuse Prevention Programs  
The parties recognize the problems which drug and alcohol abuse have created within the construction industry and  
have reached formal agreement on a Memorandum of Understanding on Drug Abuse Prevention and Detection. Any  
testing program implemented by an individual employer must conform to the provisions of the Memorandum of Under-  
standing agreed upon by the parties.  
50%  
55%  
60%  
70%  
80%  
85%  
$11.55  
$12.71  
$13.86  
$16.17  
318.48  
319.64  
The parties have agreed to a Memorandum of Understanding on Drug Screening.  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 41  
   
     
a)  
=  
### CALIFORNI  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 42  
IT JS AGREED by the parties hereto that all matters of wages, hours, and conditions, whether or nut specifically set  
forth in this are closed for the term of the Agreement.  
Associated General Contractors  
of California, Inc.  
By. Thomas Holsman  
Date  
Buliding Industry Assoclation of  
Southern California, Inc.  
By. Pamela Ackrich  
Date  
Southern California Contractors  
Association  
By. Jere Meacham  
Date  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Southern California District Council  
of Laborers  
By: Mike Quevedo, Jr.  
Date  
Southern California District Council  
of Laborers  
By: Tony R. Hoffman  
Date  
Southern California District Council  
of Laborers  
BY: Angel Sambrano, Sr.  
Date  
   
Appendix A  
Residential Work  
The provisions of the Master Labor Agreement apply except as modified by this Appendix A.  
Definition:  
1.  
### IN  
Residential work is defined as all Laborers’ work on wood or metal frame construction of single family  
residences, apartments and condominiums. This residential work shall not include projects that exceed  
three stories over a garage level; any utility work, such as telephone, gas, water, sewer, and other  
utilities: or any work outside property lines. including curbs, gutters, and sidewalks.  
This residential work shall include all rough grading work at the job site behind the existing public right-  
of-way, at the time of commencement of said work. It shall not include any fine grading work. utility  
work, or paving work in the future street and public right-of-way.  
Application: The Contractor may pay to its employees the rate for residentia! work, but only on residential  
work. Any work that is not residential work or is excluded from residentiat work as defined in paragraph A,  
shali he paid at the construction rate.  
Enforcement: For purposes of this Appendix A and not withstanding any other steps in the grievance pro-  
cedure of this Agreement a claimed violation of this Article shall be handled in the following manner:  
1.  
Within twenty-four (24) hours of a request by the Union to the Contractor and to the Associations. a  
representative of the Union and a representative of the Associations shail meet on the job and review  
with the Contractor the work in question or the contractor's bid. or both, to determine whether the  
Contractor has bid the job or a portion of the job, or has permitted any work to be performed on the job  
under residential rates where the work in question was not residential. If the Contractor refuses to  
participate or to furnish its bid, it shall be presumed that a deliberate, major violation of this article  
occurred.  
If the Union and Association representatives find a violation of this Article, or less than construction  
rates were paid at a time when the Contractor did not have an Agreement with the Union to pay less than  
construction rates, the representatives shall issue a written award in the following language:  
“(Name of Contractor) is hereby found to he performing non-residential work, for which the Contractor  
has paid or proposes to pay residential rates. The remedy for this violation is an injunction against  
further work on the job known as (describe job) except at the construction overtime rate (as liquidated  
damages). This injunction shall be enforceable by a court injunction, and the plaintiff shall be entitled  
toits attorneys’ fees and cost.”  
The Union and the Association representatives shall thereafter examine the Contractor's books and  
records and make an award of damages. with the overtime portion of the award being paid to the Union  
as its damages.  
{{ the Union and Association representatives find, or if it is found by any other arbitrator that the  
payment of less than construction rates by the Contractor for other than residential work was not  
inadvertent and minor, the Contractor shall lose the benefit of the residential rate of this Agreement for  
one year from the finding of a violation. The burden of showing that the violation was inadvertent and  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 43  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 44  
E.  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
minor is on the Contractor. If there is a finding of a second violation, the Contractor shall lose the benefit  
of the residential rate for the remainder of the Agreement.  
4. Ifthe Union and Association representatives cannot agree, the dispute shall proceed through the normal  
grievance procedure of this Agreement or the Short Form Agreement (whichever ts to the  
Contractor). and the award shall be as set forth in paragraph 2.  
If the Union finds that the enforcement of this clause is not succeeding, the Union may reopen the Agreement for  
the purpose of amending this paragraph, and if ne agreement is reached within 15 days on more stringent  
enforcement, the dispute shall he submitted to arbitration for the sole purpose of adopting language that is  
more stringent and easier to enforce.  
Transfer Provistons: The Contractor recognizes the desirability of employing workmen from the area in  
which the work is located and the Union recognizes that in the employ of the Contractor are Laborers who are  
necessary to the efficient continuity of the Contractor's operations. Therefore, the Contractor may transfer up  
to four (4) Laborers and one (1) foreman from area te area. After the transfer of no more than four (4)  
Laborers and one (1) foreman, the Contractor must hire the next two (2) Laborers from the Loca! Union hiring  
hall in the geographical area in which the work is performed. Thereafter the Contractor may transfer one (1)  
additional Laborer for each Laborer hired from the Local Union hiring hall in whose jurisdiction the work is  
performed. The Employer shall keep this 50-50 ratio intact (one (1) local person and one (1} person fromm outside  
the area) in employing, laying off and terminating Laborers. Onlyemployees who have been employed by the  
Contractor for at least three hundred (300) hours in the last six (6) months may be transferred from one area  
to another area. The Contractor must properly clear all employees, including foreman and Key employees, with  
a dispatch slip from the Local Union having geographical jurisdiction over the project prior to those employees  
beginning work. The Union will not unreasonably withhold issuing a clearance. For the transfer of additional  
Laborers, the Contractor shall first contact the office of the appropriate Local Union in the area where the  
work is to be performed. The ahove additional transfers shall only be made by mutual consent.  
   
### ATTACHMENT #1  
### CONTRIBUTIONS PAYABLE TO TRUST FUNDS  
EFFECTIVE 07/01/03 07/01/04** 07/01/05**  
Laborers’ Health and Welfare Fund for Southern California BATE  
Construction Laborers’ Pension Fund for Southern $4.31 $0.64 $0.40  
Construction Laborers’ Vacation Fund for Southern California $2.55*  
Lahorers’ Training and Retraining Fund for Southern California $0.26  
Fund for Construction Industry Advancement DULG  
Center for Contract Compliance Trust Fund  
Contract Adiministration FUNG 30.06  
* Includes Dues contribution  
### NC SES **  
07/01/04: $1.35 to he allocated by the Union (includes $0.64 to Penston on 07/01/04)  
07/01/05: $1.40 to be allocated by the Union (includes $0.40 to Pension on 07/01/05)  
** To be allocated by the Union to (1) Hourly wage rate: (2) Health & Welfare; (3) Pension; (4) Vacation; (5) Training and  
Retraining; (6) Supplementa! Dues; (7) Center for Contract Compliance; (8) Any combination thereof.  
2003 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 45  
    
    
### SY  
### AGC  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA