   
— ry  
2005 - 2010  
### AGREEMENT  
Entered into Between  
### MICHIGAN CHAPTER  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF AMERICA, INC.  
### AND  
### MICHIGAN REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS  
### OF THE  
### UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS  
### AND JOINERS OF AMERICA  
### UPPER PENINSULA  
   
Article  
### Preamble  
### I  
### II  
### II  
### IV  
### V  
### VI  
### VII  
### VIII  
### IX  
### XI  
Page  
### TERT l  
l  
ics sens cvs nessa |  
Equal Treatment Lesser Conditions............ 2  
Security 3  
Several Liability 4  
Equal Employment Opportunity ...............+. 5  
gis 5  
Drug Testing 6  
6  
Four-Tens 6  
### SELES: 8  
### VETTING 9  
Reporting 10  
Pick-Up Time (Carpenter) 1]  
Wages (Carpenters) lt  
Foreman and General  
Foreman (Carpenters) 15  
eee 15  
Apprentice Rates 16  
Trust Funds and Union Dues 17  
Apprenticeship Fund 17  
Health Care, Pension and  
Pension Annuity 17  
Upper Peninsula Construction  
Labor Management Council 19  
Dues Deduction 20  
UBC 20  
Construction Industry Advancement  
Program an  
Violation Of 23  
Fringe Benefits Security 23  
25  
Index Continued  
Article Page  
### XI Compensation Insurance 25  
Working Conditions 26  
### FAY GY 26  
26  
Coffee Break 27  
Condition of 27  
Transportation, Expenses and Parking......27  
Travel and Waterfront 28  
Crew Size 28  
Local 29  
Facilities and Safety Equipment  
(Carpenters) 29  
Tools and Equipment 31  
### EXCLUSIONS 31  
XIV = General Conditions 31  
XV Union Representatives 32  
XVI Jurisdictional Procedure 32  
XVIL Grievance Procedure 33  
XVIM Invalidity 35  
XIX = Millwrights (Pick-Up Time) 36  
Facilities and Safety Equipment  
(Millwrights) 36  
Wages 36  
Foreman and General Foreman  
CTE TNS 9 ie 004 38  
XX 38  
Termination and Signature Page............... 39  
Davis-Bacon Survey 40  
Supplemental Residential Agreement....... 4]  
Residential Wages 43  
Trade 46  
Independent Signature  
Contractor’s Page 50  
### AGREEMENT  
### MICHIGAN REGIONAL COUNCIL OF  
### CARPENTERS  
### CARPENTER/MILLWRIGHT LOCAL 1510  
### PREAMBLE  
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into as  
of May 1, 2005 by and between the Michigan  
Chapter, Associated General Contractors of America,  
Inc., Labor Relations Division, parties of the first  
part, and the Michigan Regional Council of  
Carpenters of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters  
and Joiners of America and its affiliated local  
Unions, parties of the second part.  
### ARTICLE I  
### JURISDICTION  
This Agreement covers all employees performing  
carpentry work and all divisions of the Craft engaged  
in general building and heavy construction coming  
under the jurisdiction of the United Brotherhood of  
Carpenters and Joiners of America, it being under-  
stood that the claims are subject to trade agreements  
and final decistons rendered by the National Joint  
Board for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes  
as referenced by the procedural rules of the Joint  
Board.  
### ARTICLE Hl  
### TERRITORY  
The jurisdiction of the Michigan Regional  
Council of Carpenters is represented to include the  
entire fifteen (15) counties of the Upper Peninsula of  
l  
Michigan except for that part of Menominee County  
south of County Road K at Amberg, Wisconsin start-  
ing on the west at the Menominee River and ending  
on the east at the Bay of Green Bay. The Michigan  
Regional Council of Carpenters shall include that  
part of Wisconsin of northern Florence and Marinette  
Counties north of a straight line from the  
Wisconsin/Michigan border where highways W-139  
and M-189 cross the Brule River to a point straight  
in line with Nathan, Michigan in Menominee  
County, stopping at the point crossing the  
Menominee River.  
### ARTICLE ITI  
### EQUAL TREATMENT -  
### LESSER CONDITIONS  
If the Union shall furnish employees to any  
Employer in the geographical jurisdiction of this  
Agreement for the type of work covered by this  
Agreement, upon any more favorable terms or con-  
ditions than those contained herein, the Association  
shall notify the Union in writing and if not corrected  
in seven (7) days, the Union agrees that such more  
favorable terms and conditions shall be extended to  
the Employers covered by this Agreement.  
It is agreed that members of the Union shall not  
contract or subcontract any work and shall not accept  
employment for any construction Contractor under  
any lesser conditions or rates than those contained  
herein. This particularly is intended to be applicable  
to personal and weekend work by members of the  
Union. This shall not prevent any member of the  
2  
Union from legitimately entering business as a  
Contractor, providing he has so recorded himself in  
writing with the Union and the contractors having  
been so notified.  
In the event any member of the Union violates  
this section of the Agreement and upon notice to the  
Union by the Contractor, Union agrees that individu-  
ally and collectively they will use their best efforts to  
discourage such violations by discipline within and  
according to the rules and regulations of the District  
Council or the bylaws of the respective Union or the  
International. The Contractor may refuse employ-  
ment to any members of the Union who violate this  
“No Contracting” provision. Exceptions to this pro-  
vision can be made in individual cases by mutual  
consent in writing.  
### ARTICLE IV  
### UNION SECURITY  
All Journeymen and Apprentices now in the  
employ of any Employer signatory to or otherwise  
bound by the terms and provisions of this Agreement  
who are presently members of the Union shall  
remain members in good standing during the term of  
this Agreement. All Journeymen and Apprentices  
covered by the terms of this Agreement who are  
herein after employed by the Employer may be  
required by the Union to become members of the  
Union after the seventh (7th) day following the com-  
mencement of employment or the seventh (7th) day  
following the effective date of this Agreement,  
whichever is later, and to remain members of the  
3  
Union in good standing during the term of this  
Agreement.  
For the purpose of this provision, membership in  
good standing in the Union shall be based upon pay-  
ment to the Union of initiation fees, dues, and uni-  
form assessments, and shall be a condition of contin-  
ued employment with the Employer. However, an  
Employer shall not be required to discharge any  
employee for non-membership in the Union if Union  
membership was not available to the employee on  
the same terms and conditions generally applicable  
to other Union members or if membership was  
denied to the employee, or terminated, for reasons  
other than the failure of the employee to tender the  
initiation fee, dues, and uniform assessments  
required by the Union as a condition of acquiring and  
retaining membership in the Union.  
The Employer agrees that when an employee  
desires to become a member of the Union, and the  
employee has signed a proper authorization card, it  
will withhold from the wages and turn  
over to the Union the amount specified as initiation  
fees and dues. Initiation fees and dues may be paid  
in installments as agreed upon between the Union  
and the employee, and will be sent to the Union once  
a month,  
### ARTICLE V  
### SEVERAL LIABILITY  
It is understood that the Association is acting only  
as an Agent in the negotiation of this Agreement, and  
it is agent only for those individuals, partnerships  
4  
and corporations who have authorized it so to act and  
in no event shall it be bound as principal or be held  
liable in any manner for any breach of this contract  
by any employee of such contractors. It is further  
agreed and understood that the liabilities of the  
Contractors who have authorized the negotiation and  
execution of this Agreement shall be several and not  
joint.  
### ARTICLE VI  
### EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY  
There shall be no discrimination against or pref-  
erence for employees or applicants for employment  
on the basis of race, color, creed, sex, age, or nation-  
_al origin. Masculine persona] pronouns in this  
Agreement are used solely as a grammatical conven-  
ience and shall include the feminine gender, unless  
the context indicates otherwise. Similarly, the singu-  
lar personal pronoun shall include the plural, where  
appropriate.  
### ARTICLE VII  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
When subcontracting any work covered by this  
Agreement, the employer agrees to make an honest  
attempt to sublet said work to firms abiding by the  
terms and conditions of this agreement.  
When situations arise, where the low bidder is not  
Signatory in this agreement, the union, contractor and  
subcontractor shall meet and attempt to work toward  
a solution of having the work in question done by a  
member of the bargaining unit.  
5  
### ARTICLE Vil  
### DRUG TESTING PROGRAM  
The Employer may exercise any rights granted by  
law to initiate and operate a drug and alcohol screen-  
ing program for al] bargaining unit employees.  
Furthermore, the Employer agrees the Union is not  
responsible for ascertaining or monitoring the drug-  
free and/or alcohol-free status of any employee or  
applicant for employment.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### HOURS  
Bight (8) hours shall constitute a day’s work  
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. with  
one-half (1/2) hour for lunch, Monday through  
Friday, inclusive. This shall be known as the regular  
work week. By mutual agreement between the  
Employer and Union, starting time and a day’s work  
may be varied one (1) hour either way if all architec-  
tural trades and laborers on the payroll of the  
Employer on the project agree. It is understood that  
the above referred-to trades are those actually work-  
ing in conjunction with one another. A straight-time  
Saturday make-up day may be worked under the  
eight (8) hour scenario as long as all workers on the  
Employer’s payroll receive the same straight-time  
rate. When employees are required to work beyond  
the tenth (10th) hour, they will be given a paid pert-  
od not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes to eat.  
FOUR-TENS (4- 10s)  
A 4-10s work week (Monday through Thursday)  
6  
may be worked under the following terms and con-  
ditions unless prohibited by common Construction  
Agreement (Project Agreement) or prohibited by  
Federal or State laws:  
l.  
The Employer and Union may agree to a 4-10s  
work week. !t being understood that prior to the  
implementation of a 4-10s work week, the  
Union and Employer shall review the circum-  
stances involved on the construction project to  
determine if a 4-10s work week is practical and  
feasible. A 4-10s work week shall only be  
implemented with a full work week commenc-  
ing on Monday of each week, for a minimum of  
three (3) consecutive weeks.  
The starting time shall be established by mutu-  
al consent of the Employer and Union. A mid-  
morning and mid-afternoon staggered, five (5)  
minute coffee break shall be afforded all  
employees under the terms of this Article at a  
location at or near their work station.  
Friday shall be considered a mandatory make-  
up day if thirty-four (34) hours or less are  
worked from Monday through Thursday. A full  
ten (10) hour work day shall be worked on  
Friday with all hours in excess of forty (40)  
hours paid at the rate of time and one-half  
(1-1/2).  
Lost time due to inclement weather shall be the  
only time considered as lost time in determining  
if a mandatory Friday make-up day shall be  
worked.  
S$. Holidays that are observed during the Monday  
through Thursday work week may be consid-  
ered as lost time and Friday may be worked as  
a make-up day. Except for one hour prior to a  
scheduled 4-10 hour shift or one hour following  
completion of a scheduled 4-10 hour shift  
(which sha]! be paid at time and one-half rate —  
1-1/2), all work performed after eleven (11)  
hours are worked shall be paid at the double  
time (2x) rate. All other provisions as included  
in Article IX, “Hours” of this Agreement shall  
apply to the 4-10s work week.  
### SHIFTS  
It is agreed that when work ts necessary beyond  
the normal day’s work and shift work is necessary,  
the shift hours will be as follows:  
The first shift shall work eight (8) hours, 8:00  
a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, for eight  
(8) hours pay and fringes. There shall be a one-half  
(1/2) hour lunch period from noon to 12:30 p.m.  
The second shift shall work seven and one-half  
(7-1/2) hours, 4:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m., Monday  
through Friday, for eight (8) hours pay and fringes.  
There shall be a one-haif (1/2) hour lunch period  
from 8:00 p.m. and 8:30 p.m.  
The third shift shall work seven (7) hours, 12:30  
a.m, to 8:00 a.m., Monday through Friday, for eight (8)  
hours pay and fringes. There shall be a one-half (1/2)  
hour lunch period between 3:30 a.m. and 4:00 a.m.  
if two (2) shift work is required, and no overtime  
is involved, the starting times will be according to  
8  
the first two (2) shifts of the three (3) shift  
Agreement. When overtime is involved, the  
Contractor and Union will mutually agree on a start-  
ing time of the first shift to meet job conditions. The  
second shift will immediately follow the end of the  
first shift.  
When a two (2) shift schedule is necessary in  
around-the-clock operations, the first shift shall  
receive eight (8) hours pay at the straight time rate  
and four (4) hours pay at the appropriate overtime  
rate. The second shift would receive eight (8) hours  
pay at the straight-time rate of pay and four and one-  
half (4-1/2) hours at the appropriate overtime rate.  
When shift work is being performed, the work  
week shail start at 8:00 a.m. on Monday and end at  
8:00 a.m. on Saturday.  
A minimum of two (2) Carpenters and/or two (2)  
Millwrights shall constitute a shift. When, for rea-  
sons beyond the control of the Contractor, it is  
impossible to work a crew in the daytime, namely  
work on occupied stores. hotels, office buildings,  
banks, and in-plant industrial work, the Employer  
may be permitted to figure such work at second shift  
wage rates, provided, however, that he first notifies  
the Michigan Regional Council of Carpenters Upper  
Peninsula Local 1510 office.  
### OVERTIME  
All work performed by any of the classifications  
covered by this Agreement on Sundays or the fol-  
lowing holidays: New Year's Day, Memorial Day,  
Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and  
9  
Christmas Day, or any day designated for the obser-  
vance of any of the above named holidays, shall be  
paid at double (2x) the regular rate. There shail be  
no work on Labor Day, except in special cases of  
emergency.  
Double time shal] be paid for all overtime work in  
excess of ten (10) hours Monday through Saturday.  
.The time and one half (1-1/2) rate shall apply to  
Saturday work except for make-up days which shall  
be paid at the straight time rate.  
All overtime is to be divided between employees  
on the job providing they can perform the work  
required, supervision and Stewards excepted.  
Any two (2) hours of work performed before or  
after the regularly scheduled working hours, Monday  
through Friday, shall be paid at the time and one-half  
(1-1/2) rate. Double (2x) time shalf be paid for al]  
overtime work in excess of ten (1G) hours Monday  
through Saturday. The time and one-haif (1-1/2) rate  
shall apply to all Saturday work except for make-up  
days, which shall be paid at straight time rate.  
### REPORTING PAY  
Any workman reporting for work at the regular  
starting time, and for whom no work is provided, shalf  
receive pay for two (2) hours for so reporting, unless he  
has been notified not to report before leaving the end  
of his previous shift, or unless prevented from working  
for reasons beyond the contro] of the Employer, includ-  
ing inclement weather or breakdown.  
Four (4) hours pay shall be paid if over two (2)  
hours are worked, six (6) hours pay shall be paid if  
10  
over four (4) hours are worked, and a full day’s pay  
shall be paid if six (6) hours are worked. This does  
not pertain to cases where weather or equipment fail-  
ure is responsible for the lack of work on inland  
work or on premium time days. The employee must  
remain on the job for the hours he is actually paid.  
### PICK-UP TIME  
Five (5) minutes shail be allowed for Journeymen  
Carpenters and Apprentices at the close of each shift  
for the picking up and making safe the tools.  
### ARTICLE X  
### WAGES (CARPENTERS, DRYWALL  
### TAPERS & FINISHERS)  
The minimum scale of wages for Carpenters and  
Floor Layers on various jobs shall be as follows:  
Effective first full pay period on or after:  
5-1-2005 8-1-2005  
*Base Rate $24.44 $23.82  
**Dues Deduction (0.98) (0.95)  
Assessment (0.20) (0.20)  
**MRCC Building Fund (0.10) (0.10)  
Health & Welfare 3.95 4.45  
Pension 3.00 3.10  
Pension Annuity 1.75 1.75  
Apprenticeship 0.25 0.27  
UBC Funds 0.06 0.06  
UPCC 0.12 0.12  
CIAP 0.11  
TOTAL $33.68 $33.68  
I!  
*Taxable Income  
Note: A re-allocation of fringe benefits will be  
effective 8/1/2005.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2005, a total package increase of $1.22 per hour  
has been added to the base rate. The CIAP contribu-  
tion rate has been increased to $.11 per hour.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2006, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.22 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date; the CIAP contribution rate will increase  
to $.12 per hour.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2007, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.22 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date; the CIAP contribution rate will increase  
to $.13 per hour.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2008, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.27 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2009, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.27 per hour - fringe allocation to be determined at  
a Jater date.  
*All work performed on “Industrial  
Construction” shall be paid at forty-five cents (45¢)  
per hour above the Journeyman’s rate. The defini-  
tion of “Industrial Construction” is all industnal  
manufacturing and processing plants such as ore  
plants, paper mills, power houses, foundries, saw  
12  
mills, wood processing plants, or other industrial  
complexes to be determined on industrial projects or  
sites where uniform construction agreements  
(Project Agreement} are utilized or where  
Maintenance Agreements are used to perform indus-  
trial maintenance work.  
** To be deducted from the Base Rate after pay-  
roll taxes have been computed and submitted to the  
Fund Office along with other fringe benefit contribu-  
tions.  
The minimum scale of wages for Piledrivers on  
various jobs shali be as follows:  
Effective first full pay period on or after:  
8-1-2005  
  
*Base Rate $24.64 $24.02  
**Dues Deduction (0.98) (0.95)  
** Special Assessment (.20) (0.20)  
**MRCC Building Fund (.10) (0.10)  
Health & Welfare 3.95 4.45  
Pension 3.00 3.10  
Pension Annuity 1.75 1.75  
Apprenticeship 0.25 0.27  
UBC Funds 0.06 0.06  
UPCC 0.12 0.12  
CIAP 0.11 0.11  
TOTAL $33.88 $33.88  
*Taxable Income  
Note: A re-allocation of fringe benefits will be  
effective 8/1/2005.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2005, a total package increase of $1.22 per hour  
13  
has been added to the base rate. The CIAP contribu-  
tion rate has been increased to $.1! per hour.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2006, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.22 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date; the CIAP contribution rate will increase  
to $.12 per hour.  
Effective the first full pay on or after  
5/1/2007, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.22 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date; the CIAP contribution rate will increase  
to $.13 per hour.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2008, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.27 per hour - fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date.  
Effective the first full pay pertod on or after  
5/1/2009, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.27 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date.  
*All work performed on “Industrial  
Construction” shall be paid at forty-five cents (45¢)  
per hour above the Journeyman’s rate. The defini-  
tion of “Industrial Construction” is al} industrial  
manufacturing and processing plants such as ore  
plants, paper mills, power houses, foundries, saw  
mills, wood processing plants, or other industrial  
complexes to be determined on industrial projects or  
sites where uniform construction agreements  
(Project Agreement) are utilized or where  
Maintenance Agreements are used to perform indus-  
trial maintenance work.  
14  
Carpenters working on waterfront work on the  
Great Lakes or connecting water navigable to lake  
shall receive twenty cents (20¢) per hour  
over the Journeyman’s scale.  
** To be deducted from the Base Rate after pay-  
rol] taxes have been computed and submitted to the  
Fund Office along with other fringe benefit contribu-  
tions.  
### FOREMAN AND GENERAL FOREMAN  
The Foreman shall be selected by and be the rep-  
resentative of the Employer. When five (5) or more  
carpenters are employed, one (1) shall act as working  
Foreman and receive the Foreman’s rate of pay.  
Foreman rate of pay shall be a minimum of one dol-  
lar twenty-five cents ($1.25) per hour above the  
Journeyman’s scale.  
When five (5) or more carpenter Foremen per  
shift are employed on a single project, they shall  
receive two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per hour  
above the Journeyman’s rate. The General Foreman  
shall be selected from the Foremen and shall negoti-  
ate a rate above the Foreman’s rate of pay on a proj-  
ect-to-project basis.  
All Foremen and General Foremen shall be duly  
qualified Journeymen of the craft involved.  
### DIVERS  
Wages of any Diver employed under the jurisdic-  
tion of this Union shall be one and one-half (1-1/2)  
times the regular Journeyman’s rate.  
If the Diver furnishes all his own equipment, he  
15  
shall receive fifty dollars ($50.00) for each and every  
day the equipment is used.  
Divers shall be guaranteed eight (8) hours pay  
during any day they get wet making a dive. At all  
other times, Divers shal! receive the same rate as  
Journeyman Carpenters. Overtime hours while div-  
ing shall be paid at one and one-haif (1-1/2) times the  
Divers’ rate.  
### APPRENTICE RATES  
Following completion of the eighth period, an  
Apprentice shall, after passing a Union test, obtain  
the Journeyman's scale of wages. The Apprentice  
scale shall be as follows:  
First Six months...........60% of Journeyman’s wages  
Second Six months ...,..65% of Journeyman’s wages  
Third Six months......... 70% of Journeyman's wages  
Fourth Six months .......75% of Journeyman’s wages  
Fifth Six months .......... 80% of Journeyman's wages  
Sixth Six months.......... 85% of Journeyman’s wages  
Seventh Six months .....90% of Journeyman's wages  
Eighth Six months ....... 95% of Journeyman's wages  
If the Apprentice is employed by the same  
Employer the day before and after the Monday  
through Friday week of classroom instruction they  
shall receive up to twenty dollars ($20.00) per day  
expense allowance with a signed expense report. The  
Employer shall be encouraged to give an Apprentice  
a “reduction in force slip” for the week he/she  
attends classroom instruction and agrees to rehire  
said Apprentice after the one (1) week of classroom  
16  
instruction is complete, provided work 1s avail-  
able.  
It is understood that the twenty dollars ($20.00)  
per day expense is to cover apprentices only when  
attending regularly scheduled apprenticeship classes.  
The Michigan Carpenters Apprenticeship and  
Training Program Local No. 1510 will accommodate  
al! reasonable requests in providing training for  
employees working under this Agreement, who are  
required to have certification.  
It is mutually agreed that the signatory parties  
hereto will abide by all the rules set down by the  
Joint Apprenticeship Committee and such rules shall  
be considered part of this Agreement.  
On jobs employing six (6) or more Carpenters, the  
sixth (6th) Carpenter shall be an Apprentice when  
current Apprentices are unemployed and available  
for work.  
### ARTICLE XI  
### TRUST FUNDS AND UNION DUES  
### APPRENTICESHIP FUND  
The Employer agrees to pay into the Joint  
Apprenticeship Fund in accordance with Articles X  
and XIX of this Agreement for each hour worked by  
all employees covered by this Agreement.  
### HEALTH CARE, PENSION, AND PENSION  
### ANNUITY FUNDS  
The Employer agrees to pay into the Michigan  
Carpenter’s Health Care Fund and the Michigan  
Carpenter’s Pension Fund for each hour worked by  
17  
all employees covered by this Agreement tn accor-  
dance with the Wage Schedules and in accordance  
with the Trust Fund Agreements negotiated between  
the Michigan State Carpenter's Council and the  
Michigan Chapter Associated General Contractors of  
America, Inc., Labor Relations Division (AGC/LRD  
to be added when Trust document is revised).  
If the Michigan Regional Carpenter's Council  
and the Michigan Chapter Associated General  
Contractors of America, Inc., Labor Relations  
Division (AGC/LRD) agree to a change in the  
Employer contnbutions to the above-named funds,  
the hourly rate shall be adjusted accord-  
ingly.  
Pension Annuity. The Employer shail deduct in  
accordance with Articles X and XIX from the gross  
taxable weekly wages of each bargaining unit  
employee, and shall contribute that amount on the  
employee's behalf to the Michigan Regional Council  
of Carpenters’ Annuity Fund.  
The Employers agree to be bound to the  
Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing the  
Carpenters’ Annuity Fund and by any present and  
future amendments thereto, and hereby accept and  
designate as their representatives to the Board of  
Trustees such Trustees as are named in said  
Agreement and Declaration of Trust as Employer  
Trustees, together with their successors selected in  
the manner provided by said Agreement and  
Declaration of Trust as it may be amended from time  
to time.  
18  
   
So that the AGC/LRD may monitor the activities  
and performance of the Carpenters’ Annuity Fund,  
the AGC/LRD will be furnished on a regular basis  
with coptes of all documents provided to the Fund  
Trustees, including but not limited to: Trustee  
Meeting Agendas; Trustee Meeting Minutes; Fund  
Accounting and Reports; Investment  
Manager Reports; any filings with the Internal  
Revenue Service, U.S. Department of Labor or other  
government agencies; reports by Fund legal counsel  
and the Fund Administrator; all Fund financial  
reports of any type; and Committee reports and doc-  
uments. These materials will be mailed, faxed or  
delivered to the AGC/LRD at the same time they are  
mailed, faxed or delivered to the Fund Trustees.  
The Union will defend the Employers, hold them  
harmless from, and indemnify them for any claim or  
joss suffered as a result of their compliance with  
paragraph 1.  
### UPPER PENINSULA CONSTRUCTION  
### COUNCIL (UPCC)  
The Employers party to this Collective Bargaining  
Agreement shal! contribute the amount as indicated in  
Articles X and XIX, per hour worked under this  
Agreement on a monthly basis to the UPCC.  
The cents-per-hour contribution, to be used pur-  
suant to the Labor-Management Cooperation Act  
of 1978, shall be paid at the same time and entered  
on forms furnished to the Employers by the  
Contract Administrator of Carpenters Fringe  
Benefit Funds.  
19  
### DUES DEDUCTION  
The Employer appoints the Contract  
Administrator of the Carpenters Fringe Benefits  
Programs as its agent for the receipt of dues deduc-  
tion authorizations. Receipt of a written authoriza-  
tion by the Administrator shall constitute receipt by  
each Employer.  
The Employer shall deduct as working dues from  
the wages of each employee who has individually or  
voluntarily authorized such deduction in writing, an  
amount certified by the Union to be the working dues  
assessment uniformly required and a Special  
Assessment equal to an amount determined by the  
Union on an annual basis with a maximum of twenty  
cents (20¢) per hour for every hour worked by a mem-  
ber. Any such authorization by any employee shall  
contain a provision, as required by law, for revocation.  
The Union will hold the Employers harmless and  
indemnify them for any loss suffered as a result of  
the Union Dues deduction.  
The Michigan Regional) Council of Carpenters  
shall provide the Michigan Chapter AGC/LRD with  
written notice thirty (30) days in advance of any revi-  
sions to be made on an annual basis.  
### UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF  
### CARPENTERS’ NATIONAL HEALTH AND  
### SAFETY, APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING,  
### AND EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT  
### FUNDS  
The Employer(s) and the Union recognize the  
need for quality safety and health training and relat-  
20  
ed services to enable Union workers to remain  
healthy and productive, and to aid the Employer in  
meeting its own safety and health goals, as well as  
those established by government agencies and con-  
struction owners. The Employer and Union further  
recognize the need for quality training for  
Apprentices and Journey persons to meet the indus-  
try’s needs for skilled craft labor. And finally, the  
Employer and Union recognize the importance of  
cooperating in jointly and aggressively pursuing new  
work opportunities utilizing Union members and in  
formulating new initiatives designed to enhance the  
competitiveness of Union contractors. The parties  
agree to continue attempting to find a solution to deal  
with employees who resist opportunities to become  
better trained when training and educational oppor-  
tunities are made available to them.  
Therefore, in addition to any contributions other-  
wise called for herein, the Parties agree that the  
Employer shall make a contribution of six cents (6¢)  
per hour worked by all employees covered by this  
Agreement in accordance with Articles X and XIX,  
Wages, to the UBC Health and Safety Fund, the UBC  
National Apprenticeship and Training Fund, and the  
UBC Labor-Management —__ Education and  
Development Fund. This six cents (6¢) contribution  
shall be divided as follows: two cents (2¢) to the  
Health & Safety Fund, two cents (2¢) to the  
Apprenticeship and Training Fund, and two cents  
(2¢) to the Labor-Management Education and  
Development Fund.  
2!  
All Health and Safety, Apprenticeship and Training,  
and Labor-Management Education and Development  
contributions shall be computed on actual hours  
worked, without regard to whether the employee was  
working on straight time or overtime. These contri-  
butions shall be deposited each month, or at such  
other regular intervals as may be determined by the  
Trustees of each of the Trust Funds referenced  
above.  
The Employer hereby also agrees to be bound by  
the Trust Indenture Agreements applicable to each of  
the respective UBC Trust Funds described above.  
Upon request, each Employer and/or Union shall  
receive a copy of each of the Funds’ Annual  
Reports.  
### CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY  
### ADVANCEMENT PROGRAM (CIAP)  
Each Employer covered by this Agreement shall  
pay to the Construction Industry Advancement  
Program the rate specified in Articles X and XIX on  
actual hours worked by the employees within the  
bargaining unit. Payments shall be made with such  
instruction and such forms as are furnished by the  
Trustees.  
It is agreed by the Employer that the Construction  
Industry Advancement Program shall not be used for  
in support of anti-labor legislation of any  
kind at municipal, state, or national levels, to subsi-  
dize any Contractor or Contractor Association in  
connection with any work stoppage or strike, nor  
shall it be used to support any anti-Union activity.  
22  
The program shall comply with all present and  
future Federal laws governing the same.  
The Union shall have no participation or control  
of any kind or degree whatever, nor shall the Union  
be connected in any way with the Construction  
Industry Advancement Program.  
### VIOLATION OF PAYMENTS  
The Employer agrees to pay all costs of collection  
charges resulting from late payments of delinquent  
contributions, and further agrees to abide by the rules  
and regulations promulgated by the Trustees of said  
Funds.  
if the Employer fails to make fringe benefit con-  
tributions in accordance with this Agreement, the  
Union may take economic action against the  
Employer provided it gives written or telegraphic  
notice forty-eight (48) hours, excluding Saturday,  
Sunday, or holidays, to said Employers and the  
Association before taking such action.  
The deposits will be accompanied by such reports  
as may be designated by the Trustees of the Funds in  
accordance with the terms of the Agreement of the  
Trust, which is incorporated hereby reference. The  
deposits will be sent to such depository as may be  
designated by the Trustees.  
### FRINGE BENEFITS SECURITY  
Employers who do not have an established satis-  
factory record of payments into the Fringe Benefit  
Funds and Employers who become delinquent in the  
monthly record of Health Care, Pension, and/or  
23  
Apprenticeship payments as determined by the Fund  
Administrator shall be required to post a certified  
check in the amount of five-hundred dollars ($500)  
per employee covered under the terms and condi-  
tions of this Agreement. The check shall be payable  
to the Trustees to guarantee payment of said enumer-  
ated Fringe Benefit Funds that are due in accordance  
with the terms of this Agreement.  
Upon receipt from the Fund Administrator’s  
office of the monthly eligible reports that such  
Employer is delinquent in contributions required as  
set forth in this Agreement, the Fund Administrator  
shall deduct the delinquency and appropriate penal-  
ties from the certified check security to apply on said  
delinquencies,  
If after payment of said delinquency there is a  
balance remaining, said cash balance shall be left on  
deposit with the Fund Administrator and the  
Employer shall be required to give an additional cer-  
tified check to bring the security back to the original  
amoum. Upon request of the Union, individual  
Employers will furnish proof of their compliance  
with the provisions of this Article.  
The amount deposited is to be held by the Fund  
Administrator until:  
1. Completion of twelve (12) successive months of  
operation without delinquency, however, the  
requirement may be reinstated upon any subse-  
quent delinguency.  
2. Termination of this Agreement.  
3. Completion of such Employer’s project, upon the  
24  
written clearance from the Fund  
office that such Employer has satisfactorily made  
necessary contribution payments as required by  
this Agreement.  
If the amounts held as security are to be returned  
to an Employer in accordance with the foregoing and  
the Employer cannot be located by the Fund  
Administrator, any balance remaining after two (2)  
years shall be forfeited and shall be transferred to  
and become part of the Joint Apprenticeship Fund,  
provided that the Joint Apprenticeship Fund shall  
pay to any such Employer the amount so transferred  
if, within three (3) years of transfer, a claim is made  
thereafter by the Employer.  
Non-Compliance. In order to assure compliance  
by all Employers in making the contributions  
required by this Article, the Union and the  
Association will request from the Administrator of  
the Trust Funds each month a list of Employers who  
are delinquent in making the required payments.  
This list will be made available to signatory contrac-  
tors and to representatives of the Union as one of the  
ways to encourage compliance with the obligations  
of this Article.  
### ARTICLE XII  
### COMPENSATION INSURANCE  
Fach Contractor agrees for himself, individually,  
that he will carry Workers’ Compensation Insurance  
and file certificates to this effect with the Union upon  
request. He shall also make contributions for his  
employees under the Michigan Employment  
25  
- - -  
Security Act, regardless of the number of men  
employed by him, and upon request shall furnish sat-  
isfactory proof to the Union of such contributions.  
### ARTICLE XIN  
### WORKING CONDITIONS  
### PAY DAY  
Carpenters and Apprentices shall be paid every  
week, When an Employer fails to pay by the closing  
of the workday, he shall reimburse the employees  
one hour of time for the same.  
if Employers pay by mail, the check must be  
mailed in time to arrive at the Jast known residence  
address of the employee, within five (5) working  
days of the day ending the payroll period. This also  
applies when the Employer pays on the job. This  
allows for the preparation of payroll records.  
If paid by check, the same shall be designated as  
payroll, and check stub shall show gross pay, net pay,  
hours worked, Social Security, Federal tax, State tax,  
overtime and deductions.  
### LAYOFF  
Any workman laid off due to completion of the  
job or necessary reduction of the working force in  
the interim between paydays, shal) be paid in full at  
the time of being laid off. If payroll is paid by mail,  
the postmark shal] be no more than three (3) working  
days after the layoff, otherwise a two (2) hour  
straight-time payment must be paid to each employ-  
ee affected as a penalty.  
26  
  
    
Any employee covered by this Agreement shall  
be given one (1) hour notice prior to being laid off to  
get tool clearance and pick up tools and be paid by  
the Employer.  
Contractors working under this Agreement must  
give each employee, von request, a copy of the ter-  
mination slip stating the reason for termination with  
the final check.  
### COFFEE BREAK  
There will be a mid-morning coffee break not to  
exceed ten (10) minutes for all employees covered  
by this Agreement, at a suitable location at or near  
their work station. The exact time of coffee break  
shall be determined by the Employer.  
### CONDITION OF EMPLOYMENT  
No member of the Union shall violate, or be  
required to violate, any part of this Agreement as a  
condition of employment.  
### TRANSPORTATION, EXPENSES,  
### AND PARKING  
Transportation shall be furnished by the  
Employer between jobs during a day’s work, and  
such traveling shall be done on the Employer’s time.  
All transportation furnished by an Employer shall be  
in a covered vehicle.  
Carpenters and Apprentices shall be reimbursed  
for authorized expenses. Such expenses must be  
substantiated by receipts whenever possible.  
27  
  
Employers must, at all times, provide parking for  
employees fear the projects. If employees are  
required to pay for parking, they shal] be reimbursed  
by the Employer. Transportation will be provided  
from the parking area to the project whenever the  
parking is more than one-quarter (1/4) mile from the  
project,  
### TRAVEL AND WATERFRONT WORK  
Pay shall start on the boat in waterfront work as  
defined in this Agreement and continue until the  
dock is again reached. This applies to daily trans-  
portation only.  
On waterfront work, employees shall be reim-  
bursed if they travel in excess of the regular eight (8)  
hour workday. They shalJ be reimbursed up to a  
maximum of one (1) hour per day at the regular rate  
of wages. All reimbursement for travel in excess of  
one (1) hour shal) be equal to the premium rate of  
wages,  
‘ne  
   
### CREW SIZE  
It is agreed that the minimum crew on a floating  
derrick consists of five (5) Piledrivers and a Foreman  
when performing piledriving work. Welders can and  
will be counted as members of the crew on piledriv-  
Ing rigs.  
One (1} Piledriver and one (1) Foreman will be  
the minimum crew while clamming from a floating  
derrick. On cranes larger than twenty (20} tons, free  
or swing rigs shall have at least three (3)  
Piledrivers and a Foreman. Three (3) Piledrivers and  
28  
ltt  
   
a Foreman shail be the minimum crew while clam-  
ming for foundations for steel pile cells from a float-  
ing derrick.  
### LOCAL EMPLOYMENT  
The party of the first part agrees to give the mem-  
bership of the party of the second part opportunity  
when hiring Carpenters, Millwrights, and Piledrivers  
within the District Council holding jurisdiction over  
the job.  
Employers from other areas who come into the  
territorial jurisdiction of the Michigan Regional  
Council of Carpenters to perform work can bring up  
to two (2) employees, excluding non-working super-  
vision above General Foreman, to work in the area  
covered by this Agreement.  
When an Employer anticipates working on a  
project outside his local area, he shall advise that  
Local’s Business Agent before going to work.  
### FACILITIES AND SAFETY EQUIPMENT  
A. The Employer shall furnish a suitable tool room  
large enough to accommodate the number of men  
on the job to be used by employees covered by this  
Agreement for storing their tools and for shelter in  
bad weather. This room shal! not be used to store  
material and shall be heated at all times when the  
temperature is forty (40) degrees Fahrenheit or  
colder. Same shall be well lighted and secured dur-  
ing non-working hours to help prevent the loss of  
personal tools and clothing. Millwrights’ personal  
tools shall not be stored in gang boxes.  
29  
—- — — eee ee Ce  
B. The Employer shall provide a satisfactory place  
or quarters and provide suitable heat for the pur-  
pose of drying clothes.  
C. The necessary sanitary conveniences, properly  
secluded, shall be provided for employees on all  
work,  
D. The Employer shalt furnish fresh water and indi-  
vidual drinking cups for the employees through-  
out the workday.  
E. The Employer shall furnish the following equip-  
ment, as required: safety hats, rain gear, rubber  
boots, goggles and welders, gloves, sleeves and  
safety pants. These items are to be returned to the  
Employer upon layoff or discharge. Furnishing  
of the aforesaid equipment is understood to be for  
the mutual protection and benefit of the employ-  
ees and the Employer for the purpose of reducing  
on-the-job accidents.  
F. When an employee is injured on the job and is  
sufficiently incapacitated so as to be unable to  
continue work on that day, the pay will be paid at  
the regular rate for alf time lost that regular day as  
a direct result of employee injury. [f an employ-  
ee who has a minor injury on the job has to make  
| a Visit to the doctor during regular work hours, the  
employee’s pay for the day shail continue as  
though the employee was actually an the job. I{t  
shall be the responsibility of the Steward to see  
that the employee’s tools and personal property  
are properly cared for.  
   
xs  
30  
Et  
   
### TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT  
All employees shal! bring their tools on the job in  
good condition ta start work, after which they must  
be kept in good condition on the job.  
All Carpenter hand tools must be sharpened by  
Journeyman Carpenters. Employers will pay for  
tools sent off the job for sharpening.  
### EXCLUSIONS  
The parties signatory to thts Agreement agree to  
exclude all Marine work and Millwright work from  
this Agreement upon consummation of a Marine  
and/or Millwright Agreement for the Michigan  
Regional Council of Carpenters. All Employers sig-  
natory to this Agreement will be given a thirty (30)  
day notice before the effective date of a new ‘‘Marine  
Agreement” and/or “Millwright Agreement.”  
Any work in progress at the time the Marine  
and/or Agreement takes effect shall be  
completed under the terms and conditions in effect  
when the bid was awarded.  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### GENERAL CONDITIONS  
The parties to this Agreement further agree to the  
following provisions:  
1. There shall be no quota set or limitation as to the  
amount of work a man shall perform during his  
working day.  
2. There shall be no restrictions on the use of  
machinery or tools furnished by the Contractor,  
provided they are operated by members of the  
3}  
craft having jurisdiction over the work involved.  
3. Members of the firm may use such  
tools as necessary to check on layout and proper  
dimensions.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### UNION REPRESENTATIVES  
Stewards shall be employed at aff times that  
members covered by this Agreement are employed.  
(There shall be no work performed without: a  
Steward on the job.) The Steward shall be appoint-  
ed by the District Council holding jurisdiction. The  
Steward shall be the last man laid off, as long as he  
can perform the work capably. Stewards must be  
certified in CPR and Safety Training prior to serving  
in that capacity.  
Stewards shall not be removed from any job with-  
out consulting the Union.  
Authorized representatives of the Union shall  
have access to all jobs under construction; provided,  
however, they shal] report their presence to the  
Employer or his immediate representatives on the  
job site and shall not interfere with employees during  
working hours. Stewards shal) be considered as  
authorized representatives and sha}! not be restricted  
from performing their duties.  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### JURISDICTIONAL PROCEDURE  
In the event of a jurisdictional dispute, there shall  
be no stoppage of work, and the parties wil! continue  
to work on the basis of their original assignments while  
32  
an earnest effort is made to settle the dispute, first, by  
joint local action of the Crafts and Employers; and sec-  
ond, in the event the parties are unable to settle the  
same locally, then they shall submit the dispute to their  
respective International Unions.  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION  
### PROCEDURE  
Section 1. {n the event a dispute occurs due to a  
misunderstanding, misinterpretation and/or violation  
of this Agreement or any section thereof, (excluding  
Article XI regarding Delinquency) an earnest effort  
will be made to settle such dispute between the  
Contractor, and the Union. If the dispute cannot be  
resolved between the Employer and the Union, then  
the Labor Relations Director of the Associated  
General Contractors of America, Inc., Michigan  
Chapter, shall be notified of such difference of opin-  
ion or dispute. If the dispute cannot be resolved in  
seven (7) working days by this method, either party  
can then refer the matter to the Joint Grievance  
Committee as outlined hereafter.  
Section 2. The Joint Grievance Committee shall  
be composed of four (4) members; two (2) from the  
AGC-LRD and two (2) from the Union. Following  
appointment said Grievance Committee shall meet,  
elect a Chairperson and a Secretary, (one (1) union,  
one (1) management), adopt rules of procedure  
which will bind the parties concerned, and proceed to  
consider any matters properly before it. The Joint  
Grievance Committee shall have the powers only to  
a  
adjust disputes that may arise due to a misunder-  
standing, misinterpretation and/or violation of the  
Agreement or any section thereof. No Committee  
member shall be directly involved in the dispute to  
be resolved by satd Committee.  
Section 3. All complaints based on a misunder-  
standing, misinterpretation and/or violation of this  
Agreement or any section thereof shall be referred to  
the Joint Grievance Committee in writing, and said  
Committee shall meet within five (5) working days  
of receipt of said complaint to consider the same. If  
the Committee, within five (5) working days after  
such meeting, is unable to decide the matter before it,  
the members of the Committee shall choose a fifth  
(Sth) member. Should the Committee be unable to  
agree on the fifth (Sth) member within two (2) days,  
the Director of the Federal Mediation and  
Conciliation Service shall be requested to supply a  
list of five (5) local arbitrators from which the Union  
and the Association shall alternately strike two (2)  
each with the remaining one (1) to become the fifth  
(Sth) member. The decision of said Committee shall  
be determined by a majority of its members and shall  
be rendered within five (5) days after such a submis-  
sion. Satd decision shall be final and binding upon  
the parties. Any expense involved in the operation of  
the Committee shall be borne equally by the parties  
involved in the dispute.  
Section 4. No proceedings hereunder based on  
any dispute, complaint or grievance herein provided  
for shall be recognized, unless called to the attention  
of the Employer and the Union in writing within  
34  
twelve (12) calendar days after alleged violation was  
committed.  
Section 5. Pending final decision on any matter  
by the Joint Grievance Committee, no action will be  
taken by either party that will halt or interrupt the  
orderly conduct of the business.  
Section 6. It is mutually agreed that the provi-  
sions of this Article shall not apply if the dispute  
arises over failure or refusal of the Contractor to pay  
the wage rates, overtime, Health Care, Pension,  
Industry Advancement Fund, Carpenters’ Training  
Fund, and Vacation, provided. however, that any dis-  
pute involving a particular proper wage  
classification or eligibility to receive overtime pay  
shall be subject to the provisions of this Article.  
Section 7. The time frame previously referenced  
may be waived in each instance by mutual consent of  
the parties. Disputes resolved at any step of the griev-  
ance procedure is final and binding upon all parties.  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### INVALIDITY  
It is the intention of the parties herein to comply  
with all applicable State and Federal laws, and they  
believe that each and every part of the Agreement is  
lawful. All provisions of this Agreement and/or  
existing Agreements shall be complied with, unless  
they are found invalid by any competent court or  
body, such invalid provisions may be renegotiated.  
In the event any portion of this Agreement 1s  
declared to be or becomes inoperative under State or  
Federal law, the balance of the Agreement shall  
35  
remain in full force and effect, and the parties hereto  
agree to meet and renegotiate the inoperative portion  
of the Agreement.  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### MILLWRIGHTS  
Pick-Up Time: Ten (!0) minutes shall be  
allowed for Millwrights at the close of each shift for  
the picking up and making safe of tools.  
Facilities and Safety Equipment: Projects  
employing ten (10) or more Millwrights shall be pro-  
vided a separate room for their use only. Such rooms  
shall be kept clean at all times.  
Millwrights’ Wages  
Effective the first full pay period on or after:  
5-1-2005 8-1-2005  
*Base Rate $28.35 $27.73  
**Dues Deduction (1.13) (1.11)  
**Special Assessment (0.20) (0.20)  
**MRCC Building Fund (0.10) (0.10)  
Health Care 3,95 4,45  
Pension 3.00 3.10  
Pension Annuity 1.97 1.97  
Apprenticeship 0.25 0.27  
UBC Funds 0.06 0.06  
UPCC 0.12 0.12  
CIAP 0.1)  
TOTAL $37.81 $37.81  
*Taxable Income  
36  
Note: A re-allocation of fringe benefits will be  
effective 8/1/2005.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2005, a total package increase of $1.37 per hour  
has been added to the base rate. The CIAP contribu-  
tion rate has been increased to $,11 per hour.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
§/1/2006, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.37 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date; the CIAP contribution rate will increase  
to $.12 per hour.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2007, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.37 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date; the CIAP contribution rate will increase  
to $.13 per hour.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2008, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.42 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2009, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.42 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date.  
*All work performed on “Industrial  
Construction” shall be paid at forty-five cents (45¢)  
per hour above the Journeyman’s rate. The defini-  
tion of “Industrial Construction” is all industrial  
manufacturing and processing plants, such as ore  
plants, paper mills, power houses, foundries, saw  
mills, wood processing plants, or other industrial  
complexes to be determined on industrial projects or  
37  
sites where uniform construction agreements  
(Project Agreement) are utilized or where  
Maintenance Agreements are used to perform indus-  
trial maintenance work.  
**To be deducted from the Base Rate after pay-  
roll taxes have been computed and submitted to the  
Fund Office, along with other fringe benefit contri-  
butions.  
Foreman and General Foreman  
The Foreman shall be selected by and be the rep-  
resentative of the Employer. When two (2) or more  
Miiiwrights are employed, one (1) shall act as work-  
ing Foreman and receive one dollar and twenty-five  
cents ($1.25) per hour above the Journeyman’s scale.  
When five (5) or more Millwright Foreman per  
shift are employed on a single project, they shall  
receive two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per hour  
above the Journeyman’s scale. The General  
Foreman shall be selected from the Foremen and  
shall negotiate a rate above the Foreman’s rate of pay  
on a project-to-project basis.  
All Foremen and General Foremen shal! be duly-  
qualified Journeymen of the craft involved.  
### ARTICLE XX  
### AMENDMENTS  
The revised Agreement embodies all amendments  
to existing agreements and shall hereafter be recog-  
nized as the sole Agreement affecting conditions of  
the employment between the parties signatory here-  
fo.  
38  
### ARTICLE XXI  
### TERMINATION  
This Agreement shal! remain in full force and  
effect from the date first written above through April  
30, 2010 and shal! continue in full force from year to  
year thereafter, unless either party hereto wishes to  
amend, modify or terminate the Agreement, in which  
event the other party hereto shall be given a sixty (60)  
day notice thereof in writing.  
In witness whereof, the parties hereto have  
caused this Agreement to be signed in their names  
and on behalf by their duly authorized representative  
as of May 1, 2005:  
Michigan Chapter, Associated  
General Contractors of America, Inc.  
Labor Relations Division  
2323 North Larch Street  
Lansing, Michigan 48906  
517-371-1550  
     
   
     
Mr. Don Bovre. Secret  
Michigan Regional Council of Carpenters  
1219 ist Avenue South  
Escanaba, Michigan 49829  
Phone: 906-789-1670 — Carpenters Local 1510  
Fax: 906-789-1692 - Toll Free: 1-800-248-1134  
tf.  
Mr. Walter R. Mabry, Secretary-Treasurer  
39  
### DAVIS-BACON SURVEY  
it is understood and agreed by the Employer and  
the Union that whenever the U.S. Department of  
Labor mandates that a Federa) Davis-Bacon Wage  
Survey be taken for the state of Michigan, whether it  
be for the entire state or county by county, the  
Employer and the Union by this language must par-  
| ticipate in the survey. All requests to fully cooperate  
| in the survey shal! be honored by both the Employer  
| and the Union, If the Employer is asked by the union  
to fill out a survey form for any or all of their jobs,  
the Employer must comply within (wo (2) weeks of  
their request. The Union agrees to help the  
Employer to any extent it can help.  
40  
   
### SUPPLEMENTAL RESIDENTIAL  
### AGREEMENT  
Between  
Michigan Chapter, Associated General Contractors  
of America, Inc.  
Labor Relations Division  
And  
Michigan Regional Council of Carpenters of the  
United Brotherhood  
of Carpenters and Joiners of America AFL-CIO  
THIS AGREEMENT covers residential con-  
struction, which is herein defined as all work in con-  
nection with: construction, alteration, or repair of all  
residential units such as single dwellings, duplexes,  
row houses, town houses, walk-up apartments, and  
related buildings. This Agreement does not cover  
those housing units constructed of reinforced con-  
crete, and/or steel-framed units normally referred to  
as “high-rise” and that are normally in excess of four  
(4) stories in height.  
Further, the Employer recognizes the traditional  
trade jurisdiction in the field of housing of the United  
Brotherhood and agrees to assign such work only to  
members of the unit as set forth in this Agreement.  
### HOURS  
Regular day/Regular week — forty (40) hours,  
consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each,  
Monday through Friday, shall constitute a regular  
work week.  
4]  
Overtime and Holidays — All work performed in  
excess of eight (8) hours per day, Monday through  
Friday, and all work performed on Saturdays, shall  
be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2). Work  
performed on Sundays and the following holidays  
shal! be paid a double (2x) time:  
New Year’s Day Labor Day  
Memoria) Day Thanksgiving Day  
Fourth of July Christmas Day  
No employee shall be allowed to work on Labor  
Day, except to save life or property, Hours may be  
changed by mutual Agreement between the  
Employer and the Union Representative.  
Any employee losing time because of inclement  
weather may, if requested by the Employer, work (if  
employee desires) Saturday for straight time for the  
purpose of getting forty (46) straight-time hours in a  
week.  
42  
### RESIDENTIAL WAGES  
The following are agreed to Residential Wage  
Rates for the Michigan Regional Council of  
Carpenters area:  
Effective the first full pay period on/or after:  
5-1-2005 8-1-2005  
Base Rate $18.91 $18.29  
*Dues (deduct) (0.76) (0.73)  
*Special Assessment (0.20) (0.20)  
*MRCC Building Fund (0.10) (0.10)  
Health & Welfare 3.95 4.45  
Pension 2.50 2.60  
Pension Annuity 0.44 0.44  
Apprenticeship 0.25 0.27  
UPCC 0.12 0.12  
CLAP 0.09 0.09  
TOTAL $26.26 $26.26  
NOTE: A re-allocation of Fringe Benefits will  
be effective August I, 2005.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
a total package increase of $1.10 per hour  
has been added to the base rate. The CIAP contribu-  
tion rate has been increased to $.09 per hour.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2006, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.10 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date; the CIAP contribution rate will increase  
to $.10 per hour.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2007, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.10 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
43  
   
a date; the CIAP contribution rate will increase  
to $.11 per hour.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2008, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.15 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date.  
Effective the first full pay period on or after  
5/1/2009, there will be a total package increase of  
$1.15 per hour — fringe allocation to be determined at  
a later date.  
Residential Helper: The helper shail receive  
$6.00 per hour plus Health Care and Special  
Assessment deduct.  
The ratio of Helpers to Journeymen shall be one  
(1} Journeyman, one (1) Apprentice to two (2)  
helpers. The helpers shall not exceed the  
Journeymen and Apprentices by fifty percent (50%).  
*To be deducted from the Base Rate after payroll  
taxes have been computed and submitted to the Fund  
Office, along with other fringe benefit contributions.  
In witness whereof, the parties hereto have  
caused this Agreement to be signed in their names  
and on behalf by their duly authorized representative  
as of May 1, 2005:  
Michigan Chapter, Associated  
General Contractors of America, Inc.  
Labor Relations Division  
2323 North Larch Street  
Lansing. Michigan 48906  
Phone: 517-371-1550 Fax: 517-371-1331  
Gaul) Lone  
Mr. Don Bovre, Secretary AGC/LRD  
Michigan Regional Council of Carpenters  
1219 1st Avenue South  
Escanaba, Michigan 49829  
Phone: 906-789-1670 — Carpenters Local 1510  
Fax: 906-789-1692 Toll Free: 1-800-248-1134  
  
Mr. Walter R. Mabry, Secretary-Treasurer  
45  
### TRADE AUTONOMY  
The trade autonomy of the United Brotherhood  
of Carpenters and Joiners of America, consists  
of the milling, fashioning, joining, assembling,  
erecting, fastening, or dismantling of all materi-  
als of wood, plastic, metal, fiber, cork, and com-  
position, and all other substitute matenals. The  
handling, cleaning, erecting, installing and dis-  
mantling of all machinery, equipment, and all  
materials used by members of the United  
Brotherhood.  
Our claim of jurisdiction, therefore, includes  
but is not limited to the following divisions and  
subdivisions of the trade:  
Carpenters and Joiners, Millwrights;  
Piledrivers, Bridge, Dock and Wharf  
Carpenters, Divers, Underpinners, Timber  
Workers, and Core-Drillers; Shipwrights,  
Boat Builders, Ship Carpenters, Joiners  
and Caulkers; Cabinet Makers, Bench  
Hands, Stair Builders, Mill and Factory  
Workers, Wood and Resilient Floor Layers  
and Finishers; Carpet-Layers, Shinglers,  
Siders, Insulators; Acoustic and Dry-Wall  
Applicators; Shorers and House Movers;  
Loggers, Lumber and Sawmill Workers,  
Furniture Workers, Reed and Rattan  
Workers, Shingle Weavers; Casket and  
Coffin Makers; Box Makers, Railroad  
Carpenters and Car Builders; Show  
Display and Exhibition Workers; and  
Lathers, regardless of material used, and  
46  
also Public Sector Workers, Health Care  
Workers and Aerospace Workers; and all  
those engaged in the operation of wood-  
working or other machinery required in  
fashioning, milling, or manufacturing of  
projects used in the trade, or engaged as  
helpers to any of the above divisions or  
subdivisions, and the handling, erecting,  
and installing material on any of the above  
divisions or sub-divisions; burning, weld-  
ing, rigging and the use of any instrument  
or tool for layout work, incidental to the  
trade; the erection and placement of all  
materials used in lathing procedures; and  
all work with and on robotics, included but  
not limited to: rigging, handling, installing,  
maintaining, programming, and use of all  
stationary and/or portable robots, this  
includes the use of al] robots used in any  
industry, inchiding the nuclear field.  
When the terms “Carpenter(s)” or  
“Carpenter(s) and Joiner(sy’ are used, it  
shall mean al! divisions and subdivisions  
of the trade.  
47  
   
### CONTRACT TO BE EXECUTED BETWEEN  
### AN EMPLOYER WHO IS NOT A MEMBER  
### OF THE SIGNATORY GROUP COVERED BY  
### THIS AGREEMENT  
2005 - 2010  
The undersigned Employer has examined the  
Collective Bargaining Agreement currently in effect  
between the Michigan Regional Council of  
Carpenters (hereinafter Union); and the Michigan  
Chapter of the Associated General Contractors of *  
America, Labor Relations Division (hereinafter  
Association). The Employer hereby accepts and  
becomes bound as a party to that Agreement in its  
entirety, which is incorporated by reference as if set  
forth herein, including to those provisions jointly  
administered by the Union and Association, and to  
any amendments to that Agreement adopted by the  
Union and Association. Further, in performing  
Carpenter work not covered by the foregoing  
Agreement, the Employer agrees to adopt and be  
bound by the terms and conditions contained in the  
most recent Agreement between the District Council  
and Employers who regularly perform work of that  
nature,  
It is also agreed by the undersigned Employer  
that any notice given by the Union to the Assoctation  
pursuant to Article XXI of the foregoing Agreement  
shall be notice to the Employer and shall have the  
same force and effect as though it were presented in  
writing directly to the Employer. Finally, the  
Employer agrees that, unless he notifies the Union to  
48  
the contrary by registered mail at least sixty (60)  
days prior to the termination date of the foregoing  
Agreement or any subsequent Agreement, the  
Employer will be bound by and adopt any  
Agreement reached by the Union and the Association  
during negotiations following the notice by the  
Union teferred to in the preceding sentence.  
The Employer further agrees that if it has not pre-  
viously granted such recognition, it will voluntarily  
recognize the Union as the sole and exclusive bar-  
gaining agent under Section 9 (a) of the National  
Labor Relations Act for all employees of the  
Employer with the bargaining unit covered by the  
Agreement on ali of the Employer’s present and  
future job sites within the Union’s jurisdiction, if and  
when a majority of the Employers’ employees in said  
bargaining unit authorize the Union to represent  
them in collective bargaining. The Employer further  
agrees that any dispute concerning its obligation to  
recognize the Union as sole and exclusive bargaining  
agent will be resolved solely under Article XVH,  
### Grievance Procedure.  
The Employer expressly waives any right to abro-  
gate or repudiate this Agreement during its effective  
term, or to seek a National Labor Relations Board  
election during the term of the Agreement or to con-  
dition voluntary recognition of the Union’s certifica-  
tion by the National Labor Relations Board follow-  
ing a National Labor Relations Board election.  
49  
### FOR THE EMPLOYER:  
Company Name  
Company Address  
City, State, Zip  
Authorized Signature  
Title  
Signed this _day of  
Workers’ Compensation  
& Policy No,  
Name of Insurance  
Carrier  
Unemployment  
Compensation No.  
State License No.  
Federal I.D. No.  
### FOR THE UNION:  
Goel.  
Walter R, Mabry, Secretary-Treasurer  
50  
   
20