K 8450  
|, 500  
37 pe  
### AGREEMENT  
between  
### AGC/CCIA BUILDING CONTRACTORS LABOR DIVISION OF CONNECTICUT, INC.  
and  
### CONNECTICUT LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL  
of the  
### LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION  
### OF NORTH AMERICA .  
### | AFL-CIO  
### BUILDING AGREEMENT  
APRIL 1, 2002 through MARCH 31, 2005  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
vy  
   
   
”  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
.  
i sat .  
4  
  
.  
ae * .  
at  
= ts  
1 3  
a -  
. Ga  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
### ARTICLE  
vil  
Vill  
### XII  
### XI  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
### TITLE  
Preamble  
Protection of Rights  
Territorial Jurisdictions of Local Unions  
Union Recognition, Union Security and Employment  
Wage - Hours - Classifications - Shifts  
Holidays  
Coverage and Description of Laborers Work  
Heaters  
Reporting Time Pay  
Conditions of Agreement  
Business Manager, Field Representatives, Stewards, Foreman  
Fringe Benefit Funds |  
Dues Check-Off and Payroll Deduction  
Association Program  
Several Liability  
Procedure and Adjustment of Disputes  
Construction Manager  
Duration of Agreement  
Letter of Understanding  
Market Recovery Agreement  
Schedule I  
Appendix "A"  
Index  
Li  
### PAGE  
10  
11  
12  
13  
15  
17  
18  
18  
20  
21  
22  
22  
23  
25°  
32  
By  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
     
     
       
   
       
     
   
     
   
        
   
   
      
   
     
    
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
. ~ oe se . we . .  
. a . . . -  
‘ = “a -  
ve he & ic ~ . -- ae . #  
= . . ag ‘ .  
. . . - ~ a  
. — = “s #8 . we © wie ae!  
em ‘ ee cae = am Pa ai all  
: . : . “« “et  
3 . é -, . : . ae, .  
- » 7 . . Wt  
* oy a 2 “  
= ae .  
. . - . ae . - ae  
: cae a a . . i oxy : Tr a  
Soe a a .  
~ . > .  
- aay -  
= - i oF  
= Tae ae - on -  
. in 5  
. ‘ . . .  
oe “ > - a  
a. : Ws - “ . ue  
. : < rd  
. m8 . #5 5 , a * fe - ww  
= = é a  
. 5 x . + :  
. ad . ig . .  
. - se =  
: x a . ' :  
> 7 . 2 Peseta . a a  
- i 3 3 3 : - ig  
we ¢ fee .  
0 ~ : - z 3 s 2 :  
a : fe = . ve  
i : nt. os ‘a . 4 *  
. a mes pot . t - ; a a, lis, 6  
- . we a - . . Z  
% so ‘ * 5 = i oS © . ™  
ae  
. . . . . te oo =  
: ee = SEE . . ms . . . ase  
~ - : : . ee . ate vee =  
‘ ° 5 i pe ie - © a  
” ote © ~ 4 is c .  
: 7 “  
eas a Bee "4 eo. . - = rey . _ a we  
we = ae . . eee ms eee .  
. 8 wo a  
Sie a  
. . Pe Swe  
pa ° athe  
tere : » .. A 5  
7: : . ‘ . at <5  
: ses wg a i om . . '  
toe et ’ _* wo. ¥  
= - : : : :  
: . how :  
: ai Nem,  
. = feo ss =  
aja . ~ | - . +  
. 7" . 4 =, a?  
. ' os Se = . 7 a .  
: . a a “% . + : as 3 :  
sf > : . .  
‘ ow  
. oy 2 3 ‘ Sad .  
as * : . eT ere a,  
= 2 a of = wre, Bg . , i.  
= . 7 : . < :  
Siw “ = . . i=  
* we oY ge . wa . 2 ee, é oil  
. . zs t : wee  
i “at . oe 4 *.  
- £ . ‘ rd  
“8g - ee . 7 7 ‘  
‘ . - 3 ‘i * . at . .  
us . 2 - . . = sae  
ae : . ’ :  
” = ? Se : ne  
. Fe ae 7.  
eet “. «a 5 ot a .  
. . . . wi . ¢  
: ont . . . . .  
ae woe -% .  
= “8 27, yet . . . org .  
Sard : . ; = tetas . dan : .  
. weet :  
= cay . wn ne . on ve  
+ © aoe é a  
ae : — : . iy ae -  
sia a = rns wg: hg ‘a: . . ae  
- 3 . é 3 oe  
bw . 3 wnt ‘  
= te 4  
. vot ~ oa : a 3 oe ae wet  
oss & Ree : . ~ = !  
“" 3 ' 2% ile re <4 7  
. . . ms : tae  
ewe we - ee ws ‘ .  
. . rt . an”  
. sf = é rs  
4 . ‘é. ‘ -  
at bons  
Ven ote tae : ase ha 7 he . nie és  
= ay ae a) .  
‘ . = wee - . et ele .  
a . i oe we ~ a. gf . -  
: -- 5 . : 7 5 . ~ i = ‘ wey  
. : . ae  
z hee 2 “ ; = : - u, wo  
: ms . : Foes . : :  
. eg ac : ‘ 2% a ; tae .  
: < ‘ : ‘ = a Lan  
. . . oes wot oy} :  
* s 7 ‘ 7 . * al ws lene : 3  
- . a ne . . - . . : a)  
a : : oe : - =. .  
a * : — : me ~ & 4 wo ‘ € .  
= 2 +t ” . + : :  
_ r 2 .  
ms : . ~ . xa z - .  
. ae, = . a  
‘ aoe eee Mg * + . . .  
. 5 4 . . . fens - . a  
= * ow * . * fee + .  
. . i re  
i Be : . 4 . a  
. “ae : : . - sony o. ‘  
. . ~ “  
te te 78 ae “5 * so  
on . . . . "a  
a: * m0 we - ee - .  
' . ‘2 oa . 2 oct Pa  
ot a . ee hase  
* ce z noes  
os . we . x '  
<8 a as = i  
3 7 ~ a = .  
' ~  
~ : oe i J ain ; “,  
deg . woe ae % - :  
. . wee ' . a  
. . bee . .  
* ie : . i  
. £ “ i) . ease  
“4 . het ra . ra .  
oo: +  
x = : ' x  
wane . boss . : z ‘ .  
= ne ed mi, : . *  
< 3 - ae Po ge -  
= + é ? ~ aut .  
. ~ , . ‘oe  
ae . . * oe  
i st se es . uo 7  
: 6 . ws a -  
a . . ~ = ros . a .  
“3 a : . - a & .  
s a ae : . a aoe .  
os ‘ é roar : : toe a  
. sa : - : ,  
  
. .  
vos 7 :  
we wef . i, .  
. aad . roe  
sa 7  
r  
* . é .  
* Saw , rey  
. s “i a wins 8 + .  
. ‘ we .  
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into on this Ist day of April, 2002 by and between AGC/CCIA  
### BUILDING CONTRACTORS LABOR DIVISION OF CONNECTICUT, INC. referred to hereinafter as the  
"Association", acting for and in behalf of and under the authority of its members whose names appear on  
Schedule "I" and any other member joining said Association during the term of this Agreement it is  
authorized and has agreed to represent and such other Building Contractors who execute an Acceptance of  
the Terms and Provisions of this Agreement, hereinafter referred to as the "Employer"; and the  
CONNECTICUT LABORERS DISTRICT COUNCIL, hereinafter referred to as the "UNION", acting for  
and in behalf of Local Union No. 56, Greenwich; 146, Norwalk; 230, Hartford; 390, Waterbury; 449,  
Stamford; 455, New Haven; 547, New London; 611, New Britain; 665, Bridgeport; and 675, Danbury and  
their successors and assigns, each of which is hereinafter referred to as the "Local Union" or "Unions". The  
Council and the Local Union or Unions shall be collectively referred to herein as the "Union".  
### PREAMBLE  
The purpose of the Agreement is to determine the hours, wages, fringes and other conditions of employment,  
and to adopt measures for the settlement of differences and maintaining a cooperative relationship so that the  
contractors may have sufficient capable workers and the workers may have as much continuous employment  
as possible, without interruption by strikes, lockouts, or other labor-management troubles.  
### PROTECTION OF RIGHTS ©  
There shall be no discrimination against any employee by reason of age, race, creed, color, sex, national  
origin, disabilities and reasonable accommodation to disabilities under the American with Disabilities Act  
and union or concerted activities, or membership or non-membership in the Union. The Employer will  
employ and use all means of safety for the protection of the employees in compliance with the health and  
safety regulations in accordance with applicable Federal and State Laws. The Employer may decline to  
arbitrate grievances dealing with the above matters, unless the parties and the employee(s) enter into an  
agreement which provides: (1) that the Employer shall not discriminate; (2) that statutory issues are covered  
by this Agreement and will be arbitrated; and (3) that employee(s) are waiving their right to go to an  
administrative agency or court and further, this agreement results in the arbitration hearing being final and  
binding.  
### ARTICLE i  
### ‘TERRITORIAL JURISDICTIONS OF 1 LOCAL |  
### ~ UNIONS ION a  
This shall 1 apply. fo 5 and be within  
all areas of the State of Connecticut.” Territorial  
Jurisdiction of Local Unions ate z as follows: |  
st. [eee  
   
Local Union 36 Greenwich, Connecticut *  
pte ad oe  
Local Union 146: N orwalk Connecticut” |  
Norwalk, Ww estport, Wilton and Weston hie  
   
~ Local Union 230 Hartford Connecticut a :  
Tolland, Windham and Hartford ‘Counties: (with: the  
exception of Berlin, East Berlin, Bristol, Kensington,  
Forestville, Milldale, New Britain, Newington,  
Plainville; Plantsville, Rocky and: | Southington)  
Local Union 390, Waterbury, |  
Waterbury, Wolcott, Prospect, Middlebury, Watertown,  
Cheshire, Beacon Falls; Thomaston; Woodbury,  
Terryville, Roxbury, C  
Local Union 449 Stamford  
Stamford, Darien and New Canaan _  
   
Local Union 455, New Haven: Connecticut’  
New Haven, ‘West Haven, East Haven, North Haven,  
Derby, Ansonia, Seymour, Woodbridge, Bethany,  
Orange, Hamden, Branford, North Branford, Madison,  
Guilford, Northford, Meriden, Wallingford, ‘Yalesville  
   
‘Local Union 547, New London’ Connéoticut  
New London, Waterford, East' Lyme, Old Lyme, Lyme,  
Ivoryton, Old Saybrook, Westbrook, Essex, Deep  
River, Chester, Salem, Montville, Groton, Stonington,  
Pawcatuck, and Fishers Island, Néw York,: Norwich,  
Occum, Baltic, Versailés, Plainfield, Moosup,  
Wauregan, Voluntown, Central’ Village;: Colchester,  
   
Jewitt City, Lebanon, North Stonington, “Yantic,  
Franklin, Canterbury  
7  
Local Union 611. New Britain, Corinecticut .  
   
New Biitain, Bashain, Berlin, Biistol; Clinton, Cobalt,  
Cromwell, Durham, East Haddam, East Hampton,  
°° Forestville,‘ Haddam, Haddam’ Neck, Higganum, -  
Killingworth; Kensington, Little Haddam, Middlefield,  
“Worth © Plain,’ Plaitiville,  
-Portland; Rocky - Hill, .  
--” Southirigton, Middie Haddam, Middletown, n, Millington,  
Moodus; ss Newington  
   
ae Bridgeport Fairfield, Southport, Easton, Trumbull  
i Mdurtoe, Stratford, Devon, Newtown, 1, Shelton, Milford  
“© Danbury,  
“Bridgewater,  
  
Local Union 675 Danbury Connecticut  
Bethel, “New: Brookfield,  
“New - Fairfield, . Sherman; . Redding,  
Ridgefield, Georgetown; West’Rédding, Torrington,  
Harwinton, Litchfield, Morris, Bethlehem, Washington,  
-' Warreri, Sharon, Cornwall, Goshen; New Hartford,  
Winchester, Norfolk; Canaan; Salisbury,  
_ ‘North Canaan, Lakeville, Kent Winsted  
### ART ICLE Ir  
### RECOGNITION, UNION |  
### _ SECURITY AND EMELOYMENT  
   
SECTION. I ‘The Employer hereby re recognizes and  
‘that thé Union: is the - exclusive  
répresentative:of all employees in the classifications  
Oo. ahd categories of work covered by this Agreement for  
“the purpose of Collective Bargaining as: provided by the  
Labor-Management Relations Act of 1 947, as s amended.  
£g  
pa. Ft  
  
ou  
SECTION 2. ‘All otesent who are e members  
of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement  
wea remain: members in. i goed standing by the payment  
J employment. ‘All present employers who are  
mémbers of the Union and all employees who are  
hited for work if the classifications specified  
fiérein shall become’ and remain” members in good  
. Standing by tender of the required initiation fee and  
regular monthly dties:‘on' the 8th day following the  
execution of this Agreement or the date of employment,  
hee  
~  
whichever is-later, and shall.thereafter maintain, quel  
. good standing forthe term of: Wey  
“7  
Tn  
Rich “ cia oe iL To 4 tpt hyret ay -™*  
_SECTION 3. Upon request of: written notice from. the  
Union, the Employer: shall discharge any employee who  
. fails to. become oris not ammember of the’ ‘Union, on the  
- prescribed day, provided was ;available  
under the same terms-and-,conditions: as!,gerierally  
applicable to other members. Further, all employees  
who fail to maintain their Union membership in good  
dues standing: shall: be. summarily: discharged -by; the  
' Employer. ‘The Union agrees to indemnify. and-held the  
~ ,Employer harmless. from any: claim: arising, any  
discharge as provided herein.  
cea ry mre +  
| SECTION 4 jn. ‘good standing! as  
pay yee  
a . telerred to herein means-solely the tender,.or. payment  
of normal. dues and the standard. initiation fee.',;  
= 4 us  
i adh yet ad. Pe Wik  
“operon. 5. Should the present, Federal Law be  
during; of this: Agreement to, allow  
~ compulsory membership in-the Unien.on the date of  
employment, or on any period less than eight (8) days  
from the commencement of employment, this clause is  
hereby . automatically.,charged to include such  
amendments £ as, sof theeffective date, of the law.  
SECTION 6. The Local Union haviie jurisdiction shall  
., be-reco enized. as the principal source of laborers and  
shall. be given the first opportunity-to. refer. qualified  
: _-Japplicants for enployment..The Employershall;be the  
sole judge as to.whether,or not.the men. furnished are  
Sank  
_ qualified. The-Employer reserves the, to,transfer or  
rehire laborers, provided that for those laborers  
the Employer shall notify the Union of the rehiring  
within. (48): hones of the,date. of rehiring.  
ooh. gl aa rer Tac Ya  
   
- training, legal services ‘fund, and, other contributions,  
hours. and. working, conditions provided. for by, this  
_s “Agreement shall entire work poyered by  
this Agreement, thereby: applying any  
subcontract-let by: the. Employer,on; govered by  
; this at the-site-of. any sor,  
  
foe th Poa, nts é ory ty tay  
a Bee Ree CPS ala. Big ol Tu eb try  
4  
a 3 _ The agrees  
4 that the wages, , including health and,  
The Employer further agrees to refrain from doing  
business with any subcontractor for work to be done at  
of a- construction) project; covered this _  
~ Agreement, except, ‘where: ‘such contractor subscribes  
and agrees in writing to be bound by this Agreement  
and: complies- with: all of fhe terms and, conditions of  
: this Agreement. -: “gman?  
This seetion’, shall. aot, apply io. “vendors furnishing  
material solely, or to any person furnishing trucking or  
transportation. Wa See  
This Section 7 ‘shall not apely fo who  
are bound by or parties to a collective bargaining  
agreement with either the Laborers; International Union.  
of North America, or- any, of. its:.affiliates having  
jurisdiction in the State of Connecticut nor shall this  
Section 7 apply when the -work.:coyered herein is  
-. awarded directly -to.subcontractors pursuant, to a pre-  
; filed; or. assigned, bid procedure...  
The parties agree: chat there shall be no  
circumvention of this Agreement.  
SECTION 9 An mo -event shall the Employer be  
"required to; pay. higher rates of wages.or fringe benefit  
. or be subj ect, to. -more unfavorable  
working rules than those established by the Union for  
any other employer engaged in similar work.  
SECTION 10. When an Employer hereunder engages  
in independent. site . work, -highway and heavy  
»~ onstruction or other work covered under the, Heavy-  
Tunnel : and. Utility Agreement. by and  
.. between the Union and the Connecticut. Construction  
_ Industries,Association, Inc., he shall pay wages and  
fringe benefit contributions and shall abide by hours  
and working .conditions: provided. in: said Heavy-  
ghway, and tility Agreement.  
SECTION. a Is ‘Any: pravision . “of. this Agreement  
, adjudged unlawful, by a court of competent  
shall ‘be -null and void, ‘but. all.. other  
: provisions. of this. Agreement: shall. continue. in full  
force and, effect. for the term of this eee  
SECTION 12. When a “has a contract of  
more than $2,000,000 on a construction project, he  
shall call the District Council to determine whether a  
© 4/1/02 -- 3/31/03  
pre-job. conference should be scheduled and to notify  
the District Couneil of the mus wing information:  
(a) L Tceation of job: site;  
(b) Approximate stating d date ant duration;  
(c) Type of job; i tg  
(d) Approximate. manpower requremeits,  
(e) i  
The Union may y elect to ace cept atelephone call as:a pre-  
conference-or it may require a pre-job: coniprence  
meeting to be held at |  
agreeable time: and place to ‘discuss . the anticipated  
hiring procedures, work assignrnents, shift work safety,  
health hazards a and accident it prevention. «  
SECTION 13: Joint Venture: If and when the _  
: employer performs any job site construction work oh  
the type covered by this agreement with another.  
corporation, company, partnership, or any other entity  
ina joint venture, wherein the employer has either  
directly or indirectly any significant degree of."  
ownership, management or control, the terms and  
conditions of this agreement shall be applicable.to_all  
such work and to the Joint venture é as a signatory |  
employer. eo ee  
### . ARTICLE oe  
### WAGES - HOURS = CLASSIFICATIONS  
: _SHIETS © |  
SECTION 1. The regular siraight ti time e hourly. rate of  
pay for employees covered under this Agreement shall .  
be as follows:  
Classifications and Wage Rates  
_-Laborers ug  
Carpenter Tenders en  
Wrecking Laborers ic  
Fire Watchers  
  
4/1/03 - 3/31/04.  
4/1/04 - 3/31/05 $22.75  
Should there be need to increase the rate of contribution  
payable to the health ‘and/or pension’ benefit: funds  
4  
  
ah  
“provided for in ARTICLE. X; .  
Section’-1., of this  
Agreement during the term of this Agreement, the  
appropriate regular straight time, hourly rate of pay  
provided in this Article ITI, Section 1 above shall: be  
‘reduced by such amount and the appropriate health  
and/or pension benefit fund contribution rate provided _  
in ARTICLE X, Section 1, of this Agreement shall be  
.* dncteased by such amount after adequate time for notice  
to Employers. The parties agree to execute amendments  
to this agreement to the © objectives of this  
should the need arise. ;  
SECTION 1 a. For all non-prevailing rate work, there  
~: Shall be work available only to  
oe Operator. (Masonry):  
and contract managers of $11.75  
:per hour: Effective-April 1’, 2000 the rate shall increase  
to $12.75. Effective: April:1, 2001, the rate shall  
increase to $13.75.  
SECTION 1 b: ‘It is agreed and understood that the  
practice and usage of “traffic control signalman” by  
each individual employer shall continue to prevail.  
Any laborer “traffic control signalman” coveted by the  
agreement shall be paid a rate of  
$13.00 per 4/1/02=3/31/03; $14.00 per hour  
4/01/03-3/31/04, $15. OO'per hour, 4/01/04 -3/3,1/05.  
SECTION 2. The rate to be paid for intermediate  
classifications shall be as follows. The amounts  
indicated shall be the amounts to be paid per hour, over  
and above the basic wage ‘rate referred | to »  
Mortar Mixer, Pipelayers*, Plaster Tenders, Powe:  
Buggy Operators, Powdermen,  
Mixer/Nozzleman $0.25  
Jack Hammer operator. $0.50  
Mason Tenders/Forklift Operators (Masonry) $0.5C  
Licensed Pipelayer* P6-P7 License $0.85  
. $0.50.  
watt? (*The pipelayet rate shall apply only to ‘the: one (1) or  
2. two (2) employees of the total: crew-whose primary task  
isis to. actually perform the mating ¢ of pipe sections.  
oe the employee running. then mixer spraying  
mg: innate a .  
1  
### I  
i Air Track Operators, Sand: Blasters  
po ogee:  
§  
soni  
a rts  
Met baal Pee | ne L?  
tL ai  
29  
pyre  
oo te tes i  
Nuclear}: Toxie 393 siti sf  
rele  
‘Blasters © (Phage A apa e pe $3 00  
fe Mee PS apc cr ba rey  
Asbestos and Led Removal Pete 00  
af Nuclear Supervisor yee Sagi fovea  
base rate. oo Pro ab ai  
OV ike fe LiMo ty al  
Asbestos Foreman. «| wi bi tile 20% over  
base rate 7  
DoT op ng pithy price ead a OTS PE  
oo ekg “wToxic: waste!’ is defined: to “mean ‘substances  
requiring the employees:to wear OSHA level:A, Bor C  
personal protection and’ for ‘which: training! and a  
“certificate is ‘necessary. “It.does not: handling  
r  
contaminated materials.  
» SECTION 3. ‘Open Air Caisson, 'Work-and  
     
a3 Boring Crews os as ee  
- Classification and Wa  
‘Bottom tS Dt  
4/1102-3/31103  
  
4/1/03-3/31/04. .~  
4/1/04-3/31/05 $23.25  
»* - ~~ $20.75. 2 8 0 oe bots hes  
ene adi cis  
4/1/04-3/31/05 . ‘$22.75  
oa  
. 4  
a pos ay  
{ pt ‘ .  
ns oth . :  
t . se.  
$23.25 AAS! Pa hw :  
. 77 t  
ta  
$24.25 oe  
. ‘pe Yr ar  
et eS a wlop Dog em yom Rot  
i 8S Ae 2 29.05 Pore Jie  
  
4/1/02-3/31/03  
= A/1/03-3/31/04  
“3/31/05: we  
* ae wil pees: 17 4 cy : 4  
. Lb Rhee, prAP hae tty  
we eh ag Pe bee “ole 4 Soa ho  
fo SECTION 4. Nothing herein ¢hall be constiued: ‘as a  
guarantee of the number of hours of work per day or the  
- number! of days of work:-per week. hours  
> shall constitute a:regulat .work  
shall constituté.a regular work day,.starting time 6 ia.m.  
to 8 am. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday  
and. Briday: The Local:Union. shall be:nottfred*when  
work is to be performed on Saturdays, ‘Sundays: and  
holidays. An unpaid lunch shall fall between one hour  
© before and one hour: after the midpoint-of.the shift. If  
work:is provided:for any craft that.traditionally works  
with laborers, then laborers will be employed in  
appropriate amounts, at te  
### he SETAE BOE  
SECTION 4( a) The Employer shall nave the option of  
scheduling four (4) ten (10). hour days, iri a week at the  
regular rate of pay and the overtime.rate of time and  
one-half shall be paid only for work over ten (10) hours  
day. and forty (40) hours in the-week, provided the  
approval. for the, schedule -from the  
Local Union that has jurisdiction ‘ayer the job: Double  
“+ time’ shall be paid-for all swork performed on Sundays  
cand Holidays. Saturday shall-be aime and one-half  
j  
mS,  
day, except. that if: work,1s not performed on one or  
more days, Monday through Friday, because of  
inclement:weather. or other’ conditions. beyond the  
of:the. Employer; Saturday: shall be at  
the straight time rate. provisions (of: .the  
government-owner restrictions and market,recovery, if  
they:apply, shall xe ewan -over this section of  
the Agreement. « 7 |  
+  
baw  
| SECTION 5, When. two. (2). orsmote, shifts ; are used,  
continue for at, least-five (5) consecutive  
regular work days. The first shift shall be eight (8)  
hours, and the second and third shifts shall be seven (7)  
hours each, and eight (8) hours pay at the regular  
straight-time rate shall‘be'received for each shift. When  
wotking ori Sutidays and holidays, the first shift shall  
work eight (8) hours arid receive sixteen (16) hours pay  
at the straight-time rate and the second and third shifts  
shall. work seven :¢7) hours each and receive sixteen  
_ (16) hours pay at the straight-time rate. A shift which  
begins at or after 12 midnight Sunday shall be  
considered the third  
SECT ION 6. Overtime - ‘Employees shall be paid one  
and one-half times the straight time hourly: rate of pay  
(time and one-half) for time . |...  
(1) 7 excess of hours on any regulat work day  
and before regular Starting and antes regular quiting  
times; rN oar 3  
~~ in: seven (7} hours ona: second or third  
_ shift-on regular work days; :. :  
a  
(3) on Saturdays. Saturday shal! tithe and one-half  
day, except ihiat if work is not performed on one or  
more days,” ‘Monday. through -Friday, because of  
inclement’ weather. or other conditions beyond the  
control of the Employer, work on'Saturday shall be at  
the straight time rate. The provisions of Article I],  
Section 11, government-owner restrictions and the  
provisions of the Market Recovery Agreement, if they  
apply, shall take’ precederice over this section and all  
sections of me Agreement.  
(4) Employees shall be paid the 0 overtime rate of two  
times their régular straight time rate of pay (double  
time) for time on n Sundays a and holidays.  
SECTION 7. Overtime: ‘When Masons, Finishers,  
Carpenters and other building and. construction crafts  
normally tended by laborers are employed on overtime  
work, an apprépriate number of laborers (not less than  
one) shall also be. employed | if there? 1S. s-any laborers'  
work to od done. a .  
SECTION & 8. During the morning working hours, at a  
time selected by the Employer, one or more laborer  
employees by the.Laborer Foreman shall  
obtain ‘coffee for each laborer. This Privilege shall not  
be abused. a  
SECTION 9. The wages set forth in this Agreement  
that are in effect' at the time when bids for jobs are  
submitted by thé Employer’ are the wage rates which  
shall remain and continue in effect ‘throughout the  
duration of the: entire’ job, notwithstanding the  
provisions contained in Article XV hereof relative to  
the termination date of this Agreement, or any other  
‘terms of provision of this Agreement, or the provision  
contained in any successor “Agreement. :  
The provisions of this Section 9 shall become effective  
‘only if and when a similar provision is. entered into  
between the Association aiid‘JUOE Local Union No.  
478, the Connecticut: State: Council'.of the United  
Brotherhood of Carpenters and J oiners of America, and  
- the Division of Teamisters Joint Council  
No. 64 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters,  
or their successors or assigns.. Be  
Jeet  
SECTION 10. Laborers performing work at a nuclear  
site .or. fuel ::plant .under, an International  
Maintenance: Agreement providing than-the full -  
hourly. wagé rate established. in this-Agreement shall be  
paid ‘the wage increase negotiated herein as an  
additional Annuity. F Fund: for the t term of ©  
their. employment: 7 7  
SECTION 1 1 With respect to bid before April  
1,'2002,:the wage carryover rate shall be at the. -  
--$19.75 minimum rate. The wage rate for jobs bid.  
‘prior.to:April. 1, 2002:stays.at the.$19.75.rate until  
March 31, 2003: Or the he job. ends, whichever is is  
a ht  
With “respect to: o prevailing rate jobs bid 0 on: and after  
--Aptil 1, 2002; the minimum:hourly wage rates shall  
be the wage rates set forth in the wage determination  
in the construction contract, which rates shall  
in effect for.one year beyond the expiration  
- of thé wage rates in this:agreement at the time the  
work starts. With respect to non-prevailing rate jobs  
 bid-on and after April-1, 2002, the minimum hourly  
- «wage rates. that shall-remain and continue in effect  
. shall be the wage rates used to bid, which.rates shall  
continue in-éffect for one year beyond the-expiration  
ofthe wage rates in this Agreement at the time the  
work starts.  
SECTION 12(a). Government:Owner. On projects  
a government.agency’s or railroad’s  
prohibition, limitation: or restriction of the. times and  
: days:when work may be performed, the Employer  
-tnay schedule workin accordance therewith and  
shall be paid:at-the straight time rate for  
>. the first forty hours of work performed in-a week or -  
eight hours in.a day:and time-and one-half for hours  
tae  
of work over (40) forty performed in. a week or eight  
8:hours in a. day, regardless of the.time ofthe day or  
| the day.ofthe week on which.the, work:is performed.  
A make-up day may.be:worked. with mutual consent.  
- Consent:shall:not be unreasonably withheld. On  
work, prior to the-start.of the work  
-dnvolving:a prohibition, limitation or restriction, the  
Employer will give notification and relevant  
documentation to the Union of-the, prohibition,  
| or iP  
Ua Bik aT y a ead ag TIDES  
SECTION 126 b) ‘Private Owners’ Orr ptoj ects «  
-Swhere the bid the contractor to  
work hours other'than. the regular work  
‘forth in this agreement; employees may. be-assigned,  
the Union by the Employer; to -  
work these hours at eight (8) hours straight  
the restrictions are not in the bid documents the  
etiployer shalt be-able'to-work  
“mutual ‘corisént; Conisént shall:notibe unréasonably  
withheld: make-upidays:: Fouritén  
(10) ‘hour days ptus a may-be assigned,  
with the mutual consent of the the!.....°“  
Employer. Prior to the start of the work  
prohibition, limitation or restriction, the Employer  
Will give notification‘indrelevant documentation to  
: the the prohibition, ‘limitation.or. restriction.  
: . r .  
eee sta, + ot ia 2 ‘ owe og TK  
3 5 .f : t Trak so vo ae  
baker fox hel we, « . -f aA Jf tes if wa hye wend + e. eee  
Py te Sen at hp or aa fe  
The: provisions of: Section 4 of Atticle. HE-of: this  
Agreement, so far-as itpertain’ to starting and quitting  
--times and tuach bredks,; shall ‘not’ apply: where a  
‘governmental “agency's probibition, limitatidn, or  
réstriction-of to‘be performed interferes with  
the starting time-or the regular‘work day based on the  
starting time, in which-event the startingitime shall be  
determined ‘by the Eniployer based.on Baie  
limitation, or restriction.  
“Section. 13..Apprentice Program: sie.  
a ‘New applicants for! membership who cannot  
“provide reasonable proof of.4,000 ‘or  
 hours'of-employment'as a construction Craft  
. . Laborer (or, alternatively,  
‘equivalent skills in a placethent examination  
administered by the  
Training Conanittée {JATC) shall; whenever  
possible, enter the: Apprenticeship Program.  
+ Any by-failing to maintain  
“and ‘compléte his! or her'Apprenticeghip shall  
“pot be employed by  
Journey: Worker under this  
- failure! of any Apprentice-to maintain his‘or  
her Apprenticeship shall obligate the  
Employer to’discharge  
form the Union: «<2  
     
gate \: i mye  
«ab. . The Apprenticeship and Training Standards  
“Ci "The: Apprentice: wage rates:  
oD ag ‘OF: ~Wage Rate -,  
  
wis  
by the Bureaw of Apprenticeship,  
and Training .Connectient. Department of  
é a  
» Labor aré:hereby-incorporated by reference as  
a pant ons Agreement: en Joe 3  
rel x  
+ Jouraey Worker  
10-999.  
1,000-1,999 % of Journey Worker  
12 000. 2999. 80% oF j We Worker  
3 000- 3 999 90% of Tourney Worker  
“over — 4 000. j ourey Worker | ; |  
Ld: T he: e Employer. pay: a, higher rate. at its.  
being paid.  
option.: Howeyer, the; Apprentice. must meet  
his or her commitments to the Joint  
Apprenticeship Committee regardless of the  
a ef  
i oe Bh  
ren “The Employer shall pay an, 1 Apprentice the full  
fringe benefit package as described in this .  
contract.  
a . Entry into the Apprenticeship. § shall  
a  
be controlled: by the JATC,-which shall ...  
‘employ appropriate testing. and screening  
unprocedures. An Apprentice.advances from  
-. oné hours-of-credit and wage-rate category to  
‘anothet only upon determination of  
© satisfactory performance by. the J ATG, which  
.shall have the.authority to grant-accelerated  
credit where-warranted by the performance of  
an individual  
YQ ‘Ono Or + before: J apiiary 2004, ‘the employer  
coin! shall participate in the Apprenticeship  
|, Program by accepting apprentices for  
referral by the Union. ‘The  
. employer is‘not obligated to accept  
ne ““‘one:(1) apprentice for.every (5) journey. :  
workers commencing with the sixth laborer  
employed per Job site.  
h. The may not t employ an Apprentice  
until'at least.onée Journey Worker  
-and thereafter may tiot employ more than one  
J) for every three 0)  
Jc oumey ‘Workers.  
‘ .  
. al Fy ye Be i  
i.’ An Apprentic ce should whenever possible, be  
- rotated by the Employer through different  
types or work so as to become trairied in av  
- variety of operations and work skills. ‘Where  
the Employer is unable to provide ano  
Apprentice with experience in the full range  
of craft skills, the JATC may request'the ~  
Local Union to reassign the Apprentice to  
other employment i in order to provide that  
expetience. For so: long as the Employer i is  
able to provide the necessary range of.  
- employment experience, thé Employer may  
. choose to'retain the apprentice: from job: io Job  
but'shall not notify the Local Union  
of all reassignments.. RG  
j. An Apprentice shall not work on ‘the ‘obsite  
unless pipes ies by a Journey Worker.  
k. An Apprentice shall not be penalized for  
taking off from work to attend offsite  
"(though time e off for training 3 is unpaid).  
l. Itis the intent of the parties that this provision  
will not result in the displacement of Joutney  
Workers.  
### ARTICLE IV >  
### HOLIDAYS <=  
SECTION 1. Employees covered hereunder shall be  
entitled to take the following days off without pay: New  
Year's Day; Good Friday; Memorial Day; Independence  
Day; Labor Day; Thanksgiving Day;‘and- Christmas  
Day. In the event a holiday falls on a Sunday, the  
following Monday will be observed as that holiday.  
~,  
Section 1:  
.» limited to: all building Laborers’-work necessary to tend  
¢ #2 @ 3  
i : + tad “oe  
Th  
### COVERAGE AND DESCRIPTION OF :  
### LABORERS WORK  
~ Laborers' work shall but not: be  
the carpenters, such .as unloading, handling, and  
distribution of materials, and other building trades  
seraftsmen, clean-up of. debris, .grounds, and  
"buildings, and all General al Laborers:  
All Laborers! work j in with, excavaGon. ‘for  
building for all other construction, including digging of  
trenches, piers, foundations, holes, caissons and  
cofferdams. (This doesnot restrict the: laborers from  
perforrning other work.) eee eee  
All Laborers' work in connection with concrete work,  
chipping, and grinding, mixing, handling, shoveling,  
conveying, pouring, concrete pumps: and similar type  
machines, grout pumps, nozzlemen, vibrating  
igniting equipment and otherwise applying  
concrete whether done by hand.or any other process;  
and wrecking, stripping, 2 and  
concrete forms and alse work. iF.)  
All Laborers work, in connection. with excavation,  
grinding, preparation, concreting, asphalt and mastic  
paving, paving,: ramimin 18, and lagging 0 of other  
ee stone muaterale.©  
ey “All Laborers set in connection with the cutting of  
‘holes, digging of trenches, manholes, etc., handling and  
-- conveying of. all: materials: for same, concreting of  
same, the backfilling, grading ¢ a resurfacing of  
eB ee My iting wee Fie  
see oy BOR EG  
ihe  
All Laborers work: in construction of caissons, non-  
. metallic drains‘and sewers, metallic drains and sewers,  
Sapy typeof conduit :and cribbing, iagging, bracing,  
©) shéeting; trench jacking and handling of hand-guided  
‘lagging hammers in open trenches. and ditches.  
ete  
~  
wt Ok  
€  
All Laborers' work in connection with the shoring,  
underpinning and razing of all structures.  
All Laborers' donnééetion with drilling and  
loading, placing’. and. biasing of. all’ powder and  
explosives.  
: All Laborers' work’in. with the ‘slicing,  
| handling and. placing: rip-rap, rock -aind: stone,  
retaining walls: sk pid  
its at  
a  
sot  
All Laborers" workion o or piefabrication ward  
at the cofistruction .project::site! sor:  
prefabrication yard specifically established and  
‘operated for that one.particular:construction job and in  
a wrecking yard. andrwrecking work on  
abe ity tidy * ee go  
ca All Laborers’ -workiin:-connection with the removal land  
disposal of asbestos, and the removal and: disposal of  
toxic Wasle.  
Moreh ad MT PE) gad ava wae * aa 4  
All Laborers! work in-connection with. the coring: cand  
a sawing. of conerete. Sh  
ree . ae rs Lop tee,  
All. Laborers! work cin connection: with. the  
: classifications of work set one in this Agreement.  
The Employer further reco s thal the Union claims  
the work set forth in n Appendix. A attached hereto and  
7 made Part  
   
In the event a dispute involving jurisdiction arises, the  
disputing unions shall request the other union or unions  
involved to send representatives to the job: site to meet  
: ‘with representatives:of the Union and the,employer to  
“i” settle the dispute. :df unanimous agreement including  
the consent. ofthe: not the  
meeting, the Unions shall request their International  
Unions to assign a representative who shall make  
arrangements to: ofthe! tther  
. International:: “Unibn:: .or./-Unions::: invelved::,:and  
:  representatives‘of the Entployer om the job-site.ta;seek  
-. settlemént of the.dispute.: above: procedute, or  
any other mutually agreed.-upon. procedure; fails to  
resolve the problem, then the Employer, at the request  
of the Union, agrees to participate in a tripartite  
arbitration with all the disputing Failure of any  
party to participate in said arbitration shall not prevent  
> the arbitration from proceeding, The impartial umpire  
- fo hear. the dispute shall,be,selected in rotation from  
Larry (Foy, ; alsh .and. Larry -Katz.... Decisions  
réndered or: xesolutions. agreed-to-by-any of the above  
procedures shall be final, binding and, conclusive on the  
Employer and the union parties. There shall be no  
picketing; work stoppages, or  
lockout. over-any; dispute: Any alleged  
violation::, of..-this. agreement. involving disputes  
_ concerning’, jurisdiction, shall..not be:subject to the  
normal. grievance and! arbitration process, ,contained in  
“Article::V. and. shall -be-resolved. solely, through the  
processes -contained herein. - -The -atbitrator shall  
determine: jurisdiction based on: industry practices, area  
practice, .operational, efficiency In  
addition, the scope of-the arbitration: shall be limited  
of jurisdiction and any such  
decision or determination shall not-result in any rework,  
Or double manning requiring. more employees than  
  
necessary toi perform: the work). Nothing herein,  
however, shall prohibit the award, by the Arbitrator, of  
monetary  
### "ARTICLE VI  
### HEATERS  
When utilizing salamanders and other heaters within  
the jurisdiction of the Union: (1) Each such employer  
shall assign employees covered by this Agreement to  
service-"salamanders" in accordance with the following  
  
Bulk Source  
First Shift:  
0 - men regardless. of units in ihe System or the size of  
the System.  
Seca and Third Shifts -  
regardless. ofthe number of units: in the System  
» the s size, of the System.  
Individual Units.  
AP iad ge  
Q - 5 units - Omen’: ah (hota te ghee  
6 - 30 units - ce  
21-35 .  
36 - 50 units - 3 men  
each additional 2 ‘units - man...  
"Individual Units" 2 as set forth i in the. e above ‘schedule  
shall be defined as ted by: a tank’ up fo. one-  
- hundred (100) pounds. : |  
(2) The Laborer, if any, cassigned to service: the Bulk  
Source system shall be required to service and hook-up  
the individual units of the systém at the béginning of  
and during its operation but shall not be:assigned the  
~ work of repairing or installing the piping system a as that  
work is assigned to-other. cratts,  
(3) For the purpose of the work referred | to 5 above,  
Article TIL; Section 5: of the Agreement shail be  
amended and interpreted to establish the following shift  
arrangement:  
(a) If salamanders or heating units to’ above are  
to operate for seven (7) or more consecutive days, there  
shall be four six-hour shifts per day and any employee  
assigned to this work referred to above  
forty-four (44) hours:pay at straight-tinie for forty-two  
(42) hours work. Each such employee shall be assigned  
| to work each day of the s seven: m (or more) “ay. schedule.  
(b) If salamanders or heating units referred to above are  
to operate for more than two.(2) full days but. less than  
seven (7) full days, then four six-hour. shifts.shall be  
established and employees. so assigned shall be paid  
eight (8) hours Spay tor SIX, fours ACT on the  
shift, 1  
### ARTICLEVIT  
### REPORTING TIME PAY  
   
“SECTION. 1. After a person has been first hired and  
ordered to report to work at the regular starting time  
and no work is provided for him on the day that he is so  
ordered to report, he shall receive reporting time pay  
equivalent to two (2) hours at the regular straight-time  
10  
  
hourly rate. If the person has been working regularly,  
and the employer has failed to notify him not to report  
for work before Jeaving his residence, -he shall be  
entitled to two (2) hours reporting time pay as provided -  
herein.. The employee.must remain at the job site and  
. for ‘work unless told dby the © Employer, that he  
may leaye.. |  
vi SECTION? 2, ‘Employees shall furnish their Employer  
,.with-current.telephone or. other, contact at the start of  
job, and advise the, Employer of any subsequent  
one change or: in such ¢ contact during the courage of  
aan  
SECTION3 3. Any employee who reports for work, and |  
for whom work is provided, regardless. of the time he  
works, shall receive the equivalent of not less than four |  
hours. pay. at the regular straight-time hourly rate  
ee provided | he is.available for, work throughout, such  
oy Period.  
| SECT ION 4. ‘Any employes, who. reports for work. and  
sv. Who works for more than four. (4) hours in any one day  
-, shall receive the equivalent of not less than. eight (8)  
hours pay at: the regular. straight-time. hourly, rate  
provided that he is available for, work until the end of  
that regular’ work day.  
SECTION 5. Iti is expressly provided, however, that if  
   
| + the employee leaves the job. site without permission of  
Par  
.) the Employer, or when,a person: refuses to work or  
-. -eontinue or when work stoppages brought  
about bya third: party prevent or make ill-  
advised,  
‘in: the opinion . of. the Employer, the  
performance or. continuance. of. work, payment of  
reporting time pay for time not actually worked shall  
of not-be  
SECTION. 6. Where notification. of then men is required  
   
» under this Agreement to the effect that work shall not  
  
sto be performed, on, a-particular. day, notification. of such  
eee fact to-the steward shall be suffici ent notification to the  
provided the steward i is permitted enough time  
during. working hours to notify .  
oo  
vt west,  
Tn wes .  
adi. vt  
### ' ARTICLE VIII  
### CONDITIONS OF AGREEMENT vo  
oy ek  
it i 4 a 4 eet  
  
7 SECTION 1. Ail wages due ander this’ Agreement shall  
‘be paid on the regular pay ‘day Gesignated *by the  
Employer in lawful U.S. currency, certified'check, or  
bank check or by direct deposit if agreed to by both the  
_ Employer'and the employee; oticé each week during  
~~ working hours, before 4:00° P. m. payment shall be made  
“showing eiiployee's ‘hours worked)’. arnount  
earned; social’ security deduction:” fax,  
employer's name and address. Any employér paying  
. Wages to an employee by check shall do so during  
"working hours, before’4: 00 P. m. on Monday,  
° Wednesday, or Thuisday. ze  
8 gw oe  
’ he  
“ a2  
| Tf the” regular pay day: falls ¢ Holiday’ that is ‘not  
“worked, the then shall‘be’ pdid-on the day  
before the holiday in question. Also, any employer  
_ paying wages to an employee by check shall notify  
eniployees of a Barik ot other facility at which  
«can be cashed, within reasonable’proximity fo’ the job  
site, without charge to' the employees. The’ employer  
shall withhold not more than three (3) days payin any  
‘one ah employee is discharged, or laid ‘off for  
any reason, and he shall receive a fall days-pay for that  
day and he shall also be given a lay-off slip for  
: unemployment insurance at the time of “lay-off. If  
7 ‘payment i is not thade expressly as provided then  
"the employee who has been terminated paid for  
waiting'time until paid; Waiting tinie'to be ¢émputed  
at the regular straight“timé: rate. If ah quits of  
his own accord, he'shall teceive wages for the time he  
worked on the next regillat pay day. ie es  
oe aye Nw . CES  
SECTION 2. Raingear and sli boots must be .  
_ provided by the Employer if men are ordered to work in  
rain, mud, concrete or show. Ment cannot be'terninated  
if they” are’ ‘unable? td’ work: because -they” ‘are not  
“furnished raingear ¢ “and: slip. Over boats.  
hats and raingear and‘othér implements and' equipinent,  
~~ other than those customarily furnished by ém  
pldyees,  
necessary ‘to’ the’ pérforniancé of. any of? the work  
covered by this Agreement, shall be furnished by the  
Employer and shall remain the property of the  
Employer and shall be returned to the Employer when  
11  
not in use or upon leaving its employ. Each employee  
may be required to sign a receipt for such equipment at  
the time he receives it, and he shall, be liable for the  
cost of replacement of any which is.lost or  
otherwise not returned to the :  
pe  
SECTION 3. Clothes Roomi:: The‘ Employee shall  
provide a clean comfortable heated shed or room of  
suitable: number. of Laborers  
employed, ‘for the Laborers to change their clothes and  
  
partake of their lunch. Such place shall-not be used to  
equipment OF: inate a  
type i ar ie a ob  
Ne  
SECT ION: 4: Drinking Water:. The Employer shall  
aclean can of drinking water.with-paper cups,  
-  
     
' readily available to cach employee on the construction  
site. The water shall be.changed once in the morning  
and once in n the  
Jf i.  
é |  
- SECTION 5, Toilets? Clean, sanitary toilets shall be  
+ for the employeesuse.  
SECTION 6. Telephone: A phone shall be made  
' available‘on the job site.for the employees use in case  
“OF emergency. :  
SECTION 7. ‘Lost. Time Because of Accidents: There  
shall’be no lost time on the day-of a minor injury for the  
» employee obliged to receive medical attention and  
treatment; ‘provided he returns to work: within a  
reasonable: time on. that day. Employees seriously  
‘injuted: on. the who have to obtain medical  
treatment, shall not be required to work on the day of  
the injuty to receive payment of wages for that day. The  
“injured employee.will notify the Employer, as soon as  
possible, of any injury. which occurs on the; job and  
shall furnish the name and address of the physician  
consulted for medical attention as provided herein.  
When an employee is seriously injured on the job, the  
steward shall be. permitted to p nottty the Union of the  
injury. Yo 2s  
. SECTION 8. : Time: Each employee shall be  
“given sufficient tinie at the end of the day to put away  
- this ad at the dothes room or change s shack at  
"quitting tn time.” oe  
   
Employer, the Union and the shall abide by  
the provisions contained in the’  
Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act and the  
Connecticut Safety Cotistruction Act as amiended.April  
15, 1988, and adopted by the General Assetnbly. The  
Employer and the Union also agree to mutually  
cooperate with each other with respect to all aspects of  
safety, accident preVention,; ‘health; medical facilities  
_and medical freatiment; to the end that the health, safety  
and welfare of the men working on the preject may be  
adequately and properly protected: and promoted with  
the prosecution of the work efficiéritly: in  
with safety regulations previously  
described. ee  
SECTION _10. Employers ‘may’ conduct - drug ‘and  
alcohol testing of applicants-and employées and‘such  
testing must conform to ‘state law. ‘Employers will  
notify the Union 21 days prior to implementing new  
drug testing policies. If drug testing is required by law,  
ne. tests maybe administered 4 in 1 accordance with the  
SECTION 11. Electronic Devices: ‘The shall  
have the right to limit c or prohibit ue use ote electronic  
|  
| | __ Parking: "Where: free parking is  
| within’ a half mile of the job’ site, the  
employer shall furnish or provide for transportation to  
or near the worksite by motor or  
otherwise, or, if unable or unwilling to do so, will pay  
fifty (50%) percent’ of: the cost of the’ parking to  
| employets, who pay for such parking, in an amount not  
  
   
submits such receipt for parking. if the.  
refuses the eniployer’s‘offer to furnish transportation as  
provided herein, the: shall not be entitled to  
reimbursement for parking. :  
a SECTION 13. Management The eanployer  
shall have the right and full authérity to manage the  
business and the exclusive tight to direct and assign the  
working forces including assigning work and decide all  
matters including but not limited to layoff, recall, hire,  
discharge, liquidate. and close down. thie business or any  
12  
part thereof, except ‘to the’extent. the Employer is  
‘specifically prohibited from doing SO: by. mets terms: sand  
“conditions: of this :  
### TRS  
### ARTICLE x  
### MANAGER-FIELD |  
### » REPRESENTATIVE-STEWARDS-FOREMEN  
   
SECTION: 1 The - Manager’ or. Field  
Representative of the Union shali:be allowed to. ‘visit  
the job site during working hours. If there is a location  
“for visitors to sign'in on the project, the business agent  
ae sign in to ntering any work area: 6  
SECTION 2. A steward shall be appointed by the  
Union Representative of the Local Union which has  
territorial: jurisdiction. inthe where the job is  
located. The steward shall be allowed a reasonable  
Samourit of time.to check dues books and report any  
OF the: ‘Agreement to mt Union:  
"The ste eward shall remain on ihe job: until completion of  
all the work covered by-the terms of this Agreement  
and shall be given preference in working overtime. The  
Employer shall give the Union at least forty-eight (48)  
hours notice before laying off.the steward in all cases.  
There shall be no non-working  
Except for paving jobs, ‘the Local | Union ‘which has  
geographical jurisdiction of the area in which a job is  
performed shall have.the right to furnish an employee,  
who may be named providéd: that the  
Employer requires four or‘more Laborers:to work on  
the project and work on‘the project is scheduled to take  
longer than three montis,  
Itis the intent of the parties ‘that this Section 2 shall no?  
be construed to require displacement of a laborer who  
performed the-task. (assigned: tor during the  
regular work day, de es  
The employer may. discharge stewards without prior  
notice for just cause. ft hue tet, EEE,  
SECTION 3. Laborer Foremen: Laborer F oremen  
must have been members of LIUNA in good standing  
for-a:period of:not less than one :(1) year..and Labor Management;  
receive not less than: $2.00;above: the reghlar straight rust :  
time hourly rate payable:to.laboters or-as negotiated.  
For purposes of directing laborers on all projects where  «- New TL I  
eight (8) or more laborers are employed, a laborer “and Safety Fun  
   
   
foreman ‘shall bé selected’ by. the Employer. If the AL padi 31312005, 0.  
Employer ¢ decides theres need for additional forémen, cot eg besa ty wt.  
such additional foremen shall be supplied by the Local NAB. Eapleven to,this Agreement  
:, Union that.has ab sunisdichon i in 1 the area where - hereby acknowledge.and agree, -to be: bound by the  
me soos is: ne BPS oT] ~ Agreement, and, Declaration; of -Tryst,: and any  
be sy te, yt all of i wh amendments . thereto, --for. each respective ‘Fund  
7 ‘The laborer foreman: shall. not be compelled. to: work eomumerated in: Section la.  
with the tools. when. ‘there, are .éight: (8):or more - !  
     
   
   
   
employees 1 in the crew he is assigned to supervise. “Tt is 5 tecopnized that the and procedures  
bere ae shag vp aay - promulgated by the Trustees with regard to matters  
! ARTICLE Mio ght. the payment and collection of contributions  
### FRINGE BENEFIT FUND Qo Fes - may.change.,, Signatory Employers hereby, agree.to be  
Bop pote Mar! to-such policy and procedures and changes set by  
vos SECTION. lan hereunder the Trastees, less in cone wath this Agreement  
contributions ‘to. the fringe ‘benefit trust’ funds 74  
enumerated, hereinafter referred to as the "Funds", in AN such payments to the Funds, are eto obe ry in such  
.the amounts set’ forth below for ¢éach hour worked by manner and at such time as the Trustees of the  
each employee covered: under this. Agreement on and respective Funds shall determine, but in no event shall  
after the ‘dates indicated: ge a ee. such contributions be required to be paid more often  
a .. fhan‘monthly, or sooner than the 25th day.of the month  
Connecticut Laborers Healt Fund. | following the month in which said contributions were  
4/1/2002-3/31/2003:: $3.34... * earned except as subsequently set forth in this Article.  
4/1/2003-3/31/2004 $3.59 the event that.an Employer is-delinquent in  
Ok 3131/2005 33. 79 res - the, payment of contributions, the trustees of the  
pie PR Mb OL lant ore, fs | cregpective funds may; upon :. written notice to the  
Laborers Pension Fund = girs! oy, _ Employer, require that Employer make contributions to  
3 - $2308 _ . the funds.onia weekly, schedule and that such.weekly  
4/1/2003-3/31/2004. $2.40 > won ce Soa contributions may be.required for a period of up to  
4/1/2004-3/3 1/2005 $245 fc. eo .. twelve (12) If.the Employer has net paid such  
Ware Ho bape: weekly: contributions: timely, during the _preceding  
New England Laborers' Trsining E Fund , period, the trustees of the respective funds may require  
bj 4/1/2002- 3131/2008 + a weekly contributions: to: be made for. periods: which  
a, leper UND exceed-twelve months.- The. trustees may.also require  
ri Services +, who are based. outside. the ‘state of  
mag apes Connecticut, to make contributions on a weekly basis,  
| regard. to .the -payment -history of such  
cticu Ss) uity Fund 9b ses Employers. . laterest on delinquent, amounts may be  
4/ 1/2002- 3/31/2003 $1. 50 - mated Fag required, The Trustees shall apply such contributions to  
4/1/2003-3/3 1/2005 $175 . provide, such, plan or. plans of benefits. for eligible  
Pog tas Fy, wa ow ade ob pp employees: as the ‘Shall, determine. , at . The  
le car Poon. . Employer’shall.be liable'to pay « contributions provided  
13  
above only for hours worked in covered employment in  
the geographical jurisdiction covered by the respective  
Funds. In no event shall the Employer be liable to make  
duplicate contributions | to more. than one Fund  
providing the same iype of benefits.  
Fringe contributions shall be based on eight (8) hours  
of contributions for all shifis, S, provide ee. the: employee |  
| works the ‘completes shift.”  
The Union : and: ‘its - oti te perform  
bargaining unit work for a signatory contractor who is  
sixty (60) days: or more delinquent in contributions  
| required t by a Collective Bargaining Agreement:  
SECTION 2. The Funds shall be maintained. at’ all times  
as jointly administered Taft-Hartley trust funds with an  
equal number of employer and labor trustees herein  
referred to as the:"Trustees", selected and serving and  
with such powers and duties, all-as may be provided  
from time to time by the applicable Trust Agrsement.  
Upon request by the parties, the Funds shall furnish to  
the Association and the Union copies of their respective  
annual audit reports and annual actuarial or consulting  
| : |  
SECTION 3. ,. Hach fund shall at all times be operated in  
conformance with applicable Federal and State laws  
and regulations, and ‘shall be miaintained as‘a tax  
“exempt trust under the provisions of the Internal  
Revenue Code so that Employer contributions to ‘said  
Fund shall at all times be deductible as ‘a business  
expense. The Employer shall not be liable to contribute  
to such Fund for hours worked during the period that  
contribution(s) are not deductible::  
SECTION 4. At the discretion of a Fund's Trustees, an  
Employer determined to be in its payments  
as required herein may be held liable for all  
contributions due to the Fund attorney's  
fees, court costs, audit fees and other expenses incurred  
incidental to collection of contributions due the Fund,  
including a reasonable rate of interést'on contributions  
due. Appropriate payroll records of the Employer may  
be subject to audit by the Trustéés or their authorized  
representative upon reasonable notice. The Trustees  
shall have all powers with respect. to the. audit of  
14  
appropriate’. payroll: records: and: the, collection of  
- delincuent contributions, interest, audit fees, attorney's  
other expenses. collection. as. may be  
+e provided: from time to'time by. the applicable Trust  
‘Agreement. The.Employer shall be'required to maintain  
and make available: such ‘pay’ records that are necessary  
ha payin" audits.  
‘Once an Employ yer’ ‘has been. a adjudged a del inquent to  
any of the Funds:as provided herein, said Employer  
=; may be required by the. Trustees,:.in addition: to  
rebaitting: to the: Funds. for past  
appropriate . costs  
furnish.a surety. bond. equal to the average  
- .-6f three previous months contributions rounded to the  
° thousand, but inno:eventless than ten thousand  
associated  
($10,000) to the:Trustees of each of the Funds  
. to. which: contributions: are required t to be, epaid pursuant  
to this Article. : ey  
Invaccordanée. with Section 5.02(g) of  
as amended, the Trustees do rate  
1 of interest'to be paid by Employer under Section 6621  
ofthe Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (currently twelve  
percent (12%): per annum); and further, liquidated  
damages. shall ‘be assessed.in an amount of twenty  
percent :(20%) of the. amount of the delinquency, or  
‘such. higher may be permitted -under  
or state law, pins reasonable s. fees and  
7 “costs of the @ action.  
hey, Eniployers are: «adjudged delinquent by the Fund  
. ‘Trustees in their payments to the Health, Pension, Legal  
3. Services, Annuity and Training Fusids shall not have  
the privilege of employing Laborers under the terms of  
this Agreement if such payments have not been made  
. vafter- written notice ofsuch:delinguency is given by the  
Union and seventy-two (72) hours. have elapsed after  
“such: “notice,  
delinquency: to'any of the above-mentioned Funds, and  
a:xesult thereof, shall be paid  
their normal wages. by:the delinquent Employer, until  
said delinquency is cured and the: resume  
Po  
All: semployees «affected by such  
bs SECTION: 6. Nothing ix in. this Agreement, the. Trust  
Agréement,:.a‘plan.of benefits, or. any other, document  
1  
the Employer-or other  
contributor ahy liability’ or obligation.to contribute or  
make any other payments to.any.Fund cost  
- of benefits or-the cost of administration of funding of  
the Plan beyond the obligation of the Employer.to make  
contributions and ‘pay :.expenses’of collections as  
iw  
specified in Sections 1 and 4 above‘except as required  
_ by law. Except to the extent that the Association and  
‘the participate irr the. selection of trustees,  
- neither the Association; “nor :the Union “nor. any  
‘: shall be-responsible for the operation or  
administration’ of: the Funds. In ‘ho :event:'shallthe  
- Association, the Uniomor’any liable for  
“any action or failure to.actof any agreed  
and undérstood that this.Section:shalt serve as.a defense  
“to any allegation ‘or course ofaction brought byany  
or entity: which. might jeopardize  
employer's: or’ other. conttibutor's position ! ‘that: its  
liability is strictly limited as stated °°  
‘The Pension Fund and Health amd: Welfate:Find shall  
a‘Board of-Trustees consisting of eight (8)  
Trustees, four (4) of whomshall be appointed: by: the  
(2) by the Association, and two (2) by the  
‘Connecticut Construction Industries Association, Inc.  
(C.C.LA). The Legal: Services :' Find. and::. the  
-Connecticut Laborers" Annuity shall. have’a Board of  
consisting of four (4) Trustees, ‘two (2) of  
. whom shall be appointed by the Council, oné(1) by the  
Association, and one (1) by the GCIA. The Board of  
Trustees shall administer the respective Funds.  
Representation on the Board of Funds  
referred to in this Agreement timés be  
equally divided between Union. and Management  
anid ©. ) representatives, dr  
PP Sl. fay Hf Shed  
SECTION | In the: event that. 2 ar - subcontractor is  
delinquent‘in:the-paymient of waves:or.contributiohs to  
the fringé benefit funds as requiréd by-this:A greement,  
the General Contractor, upon written -notice-firom the  
‘Union shall beliabletherefore; provided however,that:  
|. written notice of any to and  
. received by the Contractor:within two weeks of  
the time payment was due from the subcontractog; and,  
2. the delinquency is for contributions for hours of  
‘work petformed.on:the Employer's project and, 3.  
amounts ate or. wilkbédue to the subcontractor./  
15  
st  
Laborers’ Pistect Council,  
  
   
-d.. ; The Employer agrees to-deduct the amount  
   
| of: forty-five cents -($ .45) for each hour worked, from  
the weekly pay of each employee who shall.have  
authorized such deduction in writing as provided in this  
shall be made from the net pay of  
ach employee who.is.or who becomes.a member of the  
én Union: within the the unit and is  
covered: by; this Agreement, -provided:such, employee  
has voluntarily a authorized the Employer to do so in  
othe. Employes, as: set forth below:  
8: Forty-three cents: 43) shall be ‘used as 3 Hourly  
"membership dues, to support,the Local Unions and the  
  
### LOCAL UNION NO.  
### DUES DEDUCTION TION  
ne or ;  
To 5 all Employers by who | am: employed during the  
terms of the. present or future. collective bargaining  
jagreements, .cither by,<and:, between . signatory  
«-Gonnecticut:, -contractor, ,associations. and the  
» ,; Connecticut District Council and its affiliates,  
wh  
. ‘or by.an employer, not amember of said Associations,  
' whieh: -has.; an individual . collective bargaining  
agreement with the.Connecticut Laborers’ District  
Council and its affiliates.  
fami.» Dette ye th  
Date  
ee oe  
ity  
Toi ti “ips. Ey bit fe,  
"Name af Company ‘Projects Site |  
### REFERRAL CARD:  
cane  
Union ‘No.  
123 Wo 4 3 ‘  
‘This will introduce a  
a ia “4 “Name tery  
= mo  
4d  
   
we  
   
cro ges  
© 1 °° request  
Signature 7  
### AUTHORIZATION FOR Dt IES DEDUCTION  
I hereby authorize iny. Employer to deduct ‘from my  
wages each week forty-thrée cents ($.43), effective the  
date 6f this. authorization; for each ‘hour worked to  
constituté what‘aré known as the hourly. deductions as  
part of my membership dues for said week to maintain  
my membership in ‘good standing in the Union as a  
condition of employment. Such deductions shall be  
‘made from my earned'pay on éach regularly scheduled  
pay day arid shall be remitted to: the designated  
depository at the ; same time arid‘along with the Health  
-and Welfare, Pension, New England Labor  
Management Cooperation Trust Fund, Legal Services,  
Annuity, New England: ‘Health and Safety Fund; and  
Trainirig Trust Fund contributions.:  
and assi continue in full force and:effect  
whether or not I remain a member of the Union for a  
period of one year following the date it was-signed or  
until the current applicable collective ‘bargaining  
agreement expires, whichever'is sooner, and‘for any  
subsequent similar period thereafter unless revoked by  
me within fifteen (15) ) days immediately preceding such  
contract term or one year, whichever ‘is sooner. ‘The  
revocation must be in writing, bear-the  
my signature, and be delivered to the Union and to the  
Employer with whom I am then employed.  
### ; DUES DEDUCTION — “3 EE  
Employee's Signature  
b. Two ($. 02) of the i in  
| shall be used as a voluntary contribution payable to  
the Laborers’ Political League (LPL) to enable the  
Connecticut Laborers’ District‘Council and its affiliated  
Local Unions to participate more fully in ‘matters  
affecting the welfare of its members.  
16  
### . “LABORERS! POLITICAL LEAGUE DEDUCTION  
| further authorize the Employer to deduct the sum of  
- "two ($.02):per Hour-for each hour worked asa ,  
voluntary.contribution to the.Laborers' Political League  
(LPL), which I a. separate  
ageregate fund used for the purposes allowed under the  
 Rederal : Election. Campaign. :Act, U. S:C.. Section  
441B. hy PPPS oY  
two :cents ¢$.02' per hour deduction authorization  
“i for contribution to:the LPL is subject to revocation at  
any time. The above revocation: must be in writing,  
bear the date and my signature, and be delivered to the  
officers of the Local Union of which I am a member  
and to the employer with am. then currently  
employed.  
Such deductions shall be made from my earned pay on.  
each regularly scheduled pay day and shall be remitted  
tothe designated depository at the same time and along  
“with: the Health, Pension, Training, Annuity and Legal  
-' Services Trust:Fund contributions. All such deductions  
_  ghall be reported-on one form, included in:one check  
and sent along with: all other funds Provided f® for in, this  
Agreement.  
### LABORERS POLITICAL  
### » PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION  
bs oD hereby and direct each 1 employer  
to-an.agreement with the Laborers' International Union  
of North America or: any of its affiliates for whom I  
work paycheck twe cents ($.02) for  
each hour worked every pay period and to remit such  
amount ‘to the Laborers! Political -League ("LPL") at  
«such times as are:made to the  
authorization:is volintarily.tnade. I understand  
vos that the signing of this authorization and the making of  
payments to not conditions of membership in  
Union or of employroent with any employer; that I  
right to refuse to:sign:-this' authorization and to  
contribute to LPL without reprisal and that-LPL. will  
use the. money it receives to make political  
. Date Si  
aoe  
expenditures and contributions in connection with  
federal, state and local understand that  
this amount of money is merely a suggested guideline,  
that I am free to contribute more or less than this  
amount by any lawfulmeans other. thar:this:check-off  
"and that the favor :or disadvantage-me  
becausé-of the’ amount .of my’ or my  
+  
decision not to Kea oc P34,  
r * ‘  
— QL we UL Sst eh “ cry. ce.  
eat 3 {ii cit wot eg ra I “4, ay  
Phis authorization’ shaltremain in. 1 effect ‘Gntil revoked  
fe  
by me in writing.  
Contributions to the Laborers’ Political League aré not  
deductible - as for federal  
“income tax Xx purposes: BO BE eas  
tee om + + wae ‘ "y  
ry i a a  
aes ta tad . J . OE Ew ‘ Seen hue es  
a Sf “ A Pere wees,  
‘ seeds “oe rie tre, mg . vy  
ooh no eh OF we Le we tle GD  
Signature’; 20 ta eT Es,  
Social Scourity Number Cad Bat  
: tT  
¢ Pe et Ps . ry  
bs wb ' pa"; iG  
ra SECTION 2. Such’ authorization fomis. deduction,  
- practices and‘ procedures ernumerated.in this ‘Article  
shall be in compliance with the requirements: of all  
Federal'and State laws and regulations regarding same,  
-. “including. Section 302 -(c) of:the Labor Management  
Relations Act of 1947, as amended. + * as  
SECTION:3:.The’ Union agrees'to indemnify and save  
the’ Eniployerand the Association hatmless‘agdinst any  
and all claims, suits or other forms of liability arising  
outof the Employers' partitipation in or performance of  
«© the provisions of the Article. The Unionassumes full  
responsibility: for the disposition of. so  
deducted orice je tay nave to the:Union...  
tae we ems 1s, os : wnt : or  
OS ag roy dies £38  
Jo SECTION ay I shall bi responsibility ; of the  
‘Union to procure; pursuant to-theptovisions of Section  
302(c) of the Labor-Management Relations Act of  
1947, as amended, the:stined.individual.autherization  
of every. employee: this :Agreemient, both  
present and future: The Union shalf indemnify and-hold  
harmless each Employercfrom any ‘claim arising tmder  
this Article including ‘the fornishing Of counsel to  
defend against any:such. actions.: nig THe  
vit a: |  
.  
vy { ar . g +  
¥. 2 . .  
Ma ~ Yous fed he 3 va?  
17  
SECTION 5. Any Employer who fails to file his reports  
and remit the deductions when same is due and payable  
shall be considered in violation of this Agreement and  
subject to penalties set forth in Article X.  
ney  
### | ARTICLE XII  
### “OU”. PROGRAM  
‘SECTION. 1. :The.. Employer .agrees..to. pay the  
Building. Contractors. Labor Division of  
Connecticut, Ine, its, SUCCESSOLS- orassigns, hereinafter  
. referred; to, as the Association: the sum of eleven cents  
a AS: 11) per hour for each payrell hour worked by each of  
ts employees aves by the terms of this Agreement.  
SECTION 2, Payments. to the Association are due and  
“> payable on or before the 20th day .of the month next  
‘succeeding-the month for which the sym is payable: :The  
report of payments to the Association shall  
- be. ancorporated: : on; the . monthly, “Employers  
Remittance Report" in-use by the ‘Connecticut  
_¢ Pension fund, or on such:other report as the Association  
., shall payments.to be.made by separate  
. checks, and sent. at,the.same time and along with the  
_ contributions. payable, to the Connecticut Laborers'  
| Pension Fund,;;-or in. such other . manner as the  
Association shall determing, A copy of each monthly  
  
snight be. required by ‘the ‘Association ‘shall be  
wie “forwarded. to the ‘Association whether it contains  
_-¢ information concerning payments to the AGC pursuant  
“i to this oF not.  
SECTION. 3. ‘The Union agrees to furnish the  
Association with the following: (a) a copy: of, every  
signed individual collective bargaining agreement  
and/or participation agreement and/or other acceptance  
of the terms and provisions of any collective bargaining  
agreement for work covered by-this Agreement with  
each and every employer not represented by the  
Association, hereinafter referred to-as the “Independent  
Agreement"; and,-(b), up-to- -date lists, no later than  
=: monthly, of the names. and) addresses of all employers  
Signatory to an Independent Agreement for the types of  
work-covered under this  
‘SECTION 4: The Union: agreés te propose that all:the  
provisions © contained In ‘this XT],  
ASSOCIATION PROGRAM; shall ‘be included. in  
every Independent The Union further  
agrees that the total hourly economic cost (i:e. hourly  
payments . required),. including’ :payments «to the  
Association, for companies covered under such  
Independent Agreements shall-not be less than the total  
hourly-econormic.cost forEmployers covered under this  
: Agreement:.In'the event the total cost :for  
employers 1 is greater than the totai hourly econoniit.cost  
for any: employer ‘covered .under an Independent  
. Agreement, all’ Employers: covered: under’ ‘this .  
Agreement shall: have:the option to. equalize the. total  
hourly economic cost as provided in such Independent  
Agreement but shall not thereby be relieved ‘from  
making payments to the Association as S provided’ in this  
Article. oy  
SECTION 5. Ifthe Union (Local Uniomor tt the Conncil)  
accepts or is a party to any Independent ‘Agreement  
with any employer for work covered ‘under. this  
Agreement that does not include all provisions of this  
Article XII, the Association shall have the option; in its  
sole discretion, to’ delete Article XI, DUES: CHECK-  
‘OFF, in its entirety from this Agreement (for-all areas  
in the State of Connecticut or for solely the geographic  
territory of the Local Union that is signatory to. the  
Independent Agreement that does not include all of the  
provisions of Article XII), and/or to delete this Article  
XII, ASSOCIATION PROGRAM, in its entirety from  
‘this Agreement, and to-have all:Obligations contained  
in the deleted Article or Articles. immediately cease a  
determine. oo te be  
SECT ION 6. In consideration of the: promises.  
obligations of employers to make contributions to the  
' Association, and‘ in consideration: of services: to be  
ditectly and-indirectly provided. for'such employers by  
as determined by the Association. and  
for the benefit of the construction industry generally,  
and for other good and valuable consideration, such  
consideration being specifically acknowledged by each  
employer signatory to  this'.Agreement ‘or an  
each Eniployer agrees to all of  
the provisions of this Article XII and acknowledges that  
said contractual provisions were made for the express,  
18  
. ‘direct .and.exclusive benefit of the: Association, a third  
-,, party beneficiary underthis Agreement, an Independent  
» Agreement :or.:ary other form :of agreement or  
with. any: Employer. for work covered -  
.. Agreement for the term of this Agreement.  
fl ' 3  
< a ee er ee : . . poe ee,  
ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ees  
armor  
### SEVERAL LIABILITY.  
   
SECTION 1. The obligation of each Employer member  
= of: the Association shall: be: and not joint.  
2 cro. 2: ‘Connecticut, Laborers! District  
a party:to this Agreement, shall not be held  
responsible for any unauthorized act committed by any  
+ affiliated Local Union or members thereof, unless the  
Connecticut Laborers’ District Council has ordered  
-~ of ratified the same or: condoned such. act after-official  
‘© notice’.thereof.. The Connecticut Laborers’. District  
-. Council agrees that upon the receipt of notice from the  
. Association, or.any employer member thereof, of any  
-wnauthorized act, It will exercise all of its power and  
ou authority to correct same.  
: >  
SECTION 3. The obligation of each Local. Union,  
affiliated with the Connecticut Laborer's District  
Council; several and not joint.  
  
### u "PROCEDURE AND ADJU STMENT OF  
  
SECT ION. La). There shall be, during thet term n of this  
me ‘Agreement as to-.any.‘work. covered hereby, no  
» | strikes (except for non-payment of wages and fringe  
. + benefit contributions: by :the: provided  
+. herein),. no» work. stoppages,. no: slowdowns, and no.  
a ‘lockouts for. any reason. including interpretation of  
terms mend complons eh Agreement. ae  
b “IE: after forty-eight (48) hours written  
   
: ‘notice. to the Employer:.and.the Association, an  
Employer shall fait to pay any wages: due.employees  
i the terms of this Agreement, and there-is no  
dispute the wages due; then, any, other  
It is the'good faith intention ofthe parties —  
- provision notwithstanding; ‘thé Unio shall have :the  
right: to -have' the employees: ofthat.Employer:cease  
. work.’Payment by a check’ that honored:  
bank upori’ which ‘it-istdrawn, * shalk-be. prima: facie  
of nonpaymentiof wages: A dispute regarding  
classifications and rate of wages to be paid therefore, or  
actual hours due shall not be considered non-payment .  
of wages and to the arbitration  
procedures as-stated.herein.. 074".  
hereto: that -by ‘the: execution ‘of this: Agreement  
industrial peace shall be brought about and that the  
: © Union: and the Employer shall cooperate to the énd:that  
work: be done ° and without  
SECTION, 3. Je any difference of opiniog: or dispute  
should atisé betweenthe parties as tothe interpretation  
“or application of this will be  
:.: made by the aggrieved party within two (2);working  
days. of the: time the party knew or  
_ reasonably should have known of the occurrence giving  
tise-to the grievanice. In edch case,.the-first attempt at  
a  
  
©:  
settlement shall be made between  
Manager of the Local Union and the Employer 01 or  
Ho Dt AE  
SECTION 4, “Disputes which ‘cannot. be adjusted  
between the Employer and the Local Union within  
forty-eight (48) hours after they are made under Section  
3, ‘Shall be fo a Board of Such  
and shall contain abrief of the dispute. Said  
notice shall be sent to the Association or the Union as  
appropriate, by facsimile and first or  
certified mail postmarked withurt fifteen (15) sworking  
days after, failure’ to: adjust ‘the ‘dispute: ‘between the  
Employer .and::the Local: :by the  
séction. ‘Copies “of: shall; ::be »:'sent  
“* 'by' facsimile and: first:.class:U.S.  
mail or certified maifto the adverse'party. The Boatd of  
Adjustment shall be composed of two arbitrators  
by the‘Association‘and twa arbitrators selécted  
by the Connecticut.Laborers! District Council:  
Board of Adjustment shall hear all said:disputes:within  
ten. (10): working: days after: receipt: of the: notice  
provided for in this Section:and shall issue its:decision  
19  
“in writing within ten working daystafter the close  
.of the hearing. Fhe'Board of Adjustment shall be sworn  
: and> shall of ‘Such, oaths» shall be  
: waved: ain. accordance::,with ::the provisions of  
Connecticut law. Lhe parties: may, agree to.extend any  
of the time’ a by moutual  
: 1  
ro  
“4  
‘ SECTION. 5. 16 “within: forty-eight: (48) — no  
: “adjustmentor.settlenient is resolved-by the procedures  
Section 4 the matter shall; immediately. be  
teferred.in writing to,an:Arbitration Board consisting of  
1:1, two appointed bythe Association and two |  
members: the,; Council which  
sppoimtments, shall: be made. within “forty-eight (48)  
  
~ hours after AD neutral | from the  
list: :  
Michael  
M. Jackson Webber  
rr,  
Warren  
my ty ued  
ov ¢  
will Be. selected by these In the « event that  
the four.(4) Arbitrators so appointed fail to agree within  
forty-eight (48) hours on, the selection of a neutral  
the parties shall select a Chairman from a list  
furnished by ie Association.  
  
_ SECTION. 6: Ta a the event ‘the: four 4) arbitrators fe)  
appointed to select the Chairman by mutual  
. agreement; the Chairman:shall be chosen by each party  
alternately eliminating one name fromthe above list,  
and the last name remaining on the list shall be the  
selected Chairman. The first party to eliminate a name  
«in the first case above shall-be the Council, add the next  
that of. the Association: and. alternately  
. thereafter. In the. following first elimination  
-shallibe that of the Association, andin succeeding cases  
Jt  
ght SECTION 7 The Arbitration Board shall bes sworn and  
: a  
~« the first elimination shall. continue to.alternate between  
Council: and, the Association.’ Bae  
: DoF  
yf , Aes oe  
shall administer oaths:or.such oaths shall-be waived in  
_ aecordance with the provisions of Connecticut law. The  
. Arbitration’ Board shall-not.have the power to amend,  
the:provisions:of the Agreement, but  
within thirty (30) days after the close of the hearing the Council) may gtant such relief and will deal with the  
Board shall render a decision based on the evidence request in good faith.  
submitted by the parties, which decision shall be  
consistent with the term and provisions of. this’...:+.-(No text missing)  
Agreement. The majority or unanimous decision ofthe 0.9)  
Arbitration Board shall be binding upon both parties.  
SECTION 8. Each of the parties the Employer or the AB AOE ae  
Association, as the Association may decide, on the one . |  
hand and the Union oii the other--shall bear the expense : ERE OS GT Bol  
of its appointed. Arbitrators and the parties ‘shalt jointly” rh PS dan |  
and equally. bear the expense, if any, of the Chainman. PPG RETA  
SECTION 9. ‘Nothing contained herein shall réquite thé Bee Beeb A ge OG TE a  
Union to process any Local Union ‘or employee 0 eo  
grievance which in its opinion would be without merit," 7 Bee  
and no employee shall have the right to arbitrate his | |  
grievance should the Union deem it without merit. ee cern hoi. 2 ad  
SECTION 10. The Association shall have full right to  
determine whether or.not it shall represent or continue  
to represent employers with respect to grievances filed:  
hereunder.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### CONSTRUCTION MANAGER 7 7—..  
SECTION 1 Whenever any signatory contractor  
performs work as a,construction manager,  
owner/builder, or solicits bids from subcontractors, or  
coordinates work performed by subcontractors, it  
shall be deemed to be a general contractor or subject  
to the terms and conditions of the Agreement  
including the subcontracting provision, provided,  
however the signatory contractor shall not be deemed  
to be a general contractor or subject to the terms and  
conditions of the Agreement or bound to the  
subcontracting provision of the Agreement if: (1)  
said signatory contractor is an affiliated development  
company, or (2) said signatory contractor does not  
have the sole responsibility and authority to select  
and determine the retention of the subcontractor(s) on  
the job. |  
It is also understood that when a signatory contractor  
requests relief from the Agreement and this  
Interpretation, the Union (Local Union or the  
20  
EP oe Oe rs Tas ' “ao t . .  
: & : ot kl YE ris Toa yee  
we Ra 4 : -? Joy TANS Ue: ea “43 AES ey 1  
; . : ge . te  
*  
} ryt ai . 1) ees bs ifs , , ae t fa:  
, Be nes : Band ade so. : 2 yy  
Se . +  
an rs ye 8 . : x5 }  
mG OF hos Tae EC eB Te a AE GEE:  
### vo; ARTICLE XVI  
gees ‘ XL :  
Pee & i wf  
### DURATION OF AGREEMENT...  
j .  
yey tite tp ee ys,  
ESE Tce WN fF]  
   
SECTION 1. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be effective from April 1 2002 through  
March 31, 2005, except as provided in SECTION 2. ee ae ee eee .  
SECTION 2. At the expiration of this Agreement as herein provided, the same shall continue be éffective |  
from year to year unless either party, at least sixty (60) days prior to March,31, 2005 or March  
year thereafter, gives notice in writing by facsimile and first class U.S. mail dr, certified mail to the other _  
party of its intention to terminate this Agreement and requests that negotiations be entered’into for a —  
successor agreement and, in the event that the parties hereto cannot reach-an agreement at least thirty (30) .  
days prior to March 31st of any year, such party shall give notice of the failure to reach such agreément to  
the U.S Federal Mediation Service and the Connecticut Board of Conciliation and Arbitration. pe  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused these presents | to, be ‘signed by their duly.  
authorized representatives on the/29 day of 2002. PO ae, rn ai  
| | poy  
by Ye, 7 oe x a  
Mary organbesser "= . BF  
### THE CONNECTICUT LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL OF THE LABORERS! INTERNATIONAL  
### UNION OF NORTH AMERICA : es —  
Bl  
Charles T. LeConche  
     
by  
  
21  
### LETTER OF UNDE Sen  
Gentlemen: ma io dE FT  
Tn accordance with the: discussions during 1999 negotiations by and between the Labor Relations Division,  
The Associated General Contractors of Connecticut, Inc. and the Connecticut Laborers' District Council, the . -  
following interpretations and were agreed upon and they shall Become! a ‘pas of the  
Agreement reached between the |  
### MARKET RECOVERY AGREEMENT |  
  
A. This Agr eement. shall Lapplyt to. all aon prevailing rate work bid on ‘and after April 1 1, 1999, tt shall reget  
apply automatically to projects with a general contract of $15 million or less or a subcontract or  
prime contract.with the owner's representative of $5 million or less. The Union, upon'requestofthe =.  
Association or an Employer for private projects with larger contracts, may agree to apply this market.:  
recovery agreement. The market recovery wage rate shall be 90% of the basic hourly wage rate, Mat  
1. If the Employer. fails to- notity tt the Laborers District Council: this market recovery ne Oy  
shall not apply. | uF  
2. All work covered by this market recovery agreement shall be performed at the straight time rate,  
except that work over 40 hours in a week shall be paid at the rate of time and .:  
the day of the week or time of the day th that the work is performed. :  
3. Starting times shall be determined the Employer.  
4. Effective April 1, 2002, the shall call the affiliated local union n that has jurisdiction \ where  
the job is located to request.the market-recovery provision. The local union must approve all |  
requests for market recovery. .  
### AGC/CCIA BUILDING CONTRACTORS LABOR DIVISION OF CONNECTICUT, INC.  
   
### CONNECTICUT LABORERS’ DISTRICT COUNCIL OF THE LABORERS! INTERNATIONAL UNION  
### OF NORTH AMERICA :  
He Ld  
1  
p74  
    
22  
### SCHEDULE 1  
### THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRAGTORS OF :CONNECTICUT MEMBERS  
### WHO HAVE AUTHORIZED THE AGC TO REPRESENT THEM  
### IN BARGAINING WHE CONNECTICUT LABORERS  
jo cd  
Bartlett Brainard & Eacott: Inc... lat!  
70 Griffin Road  
Bloomfield, CT 06002  
Bismark Construction Co., Inc.  
100 Bridgeport Avenue  
CT 06460 pay  
SPN, | ;  
Ceco Concrete Construction,  
23A Old: Windsor Rd.  
Bloomfield,;CT:06002; «:.  
Chapel. Construction.of‘New Haven, Inc. «°° |:  
100 Ashmun Street  
New Haven, CT 06511  
on  
Civitillo Masonry, Inc...  
28 Shepard Dr.  
- Newington, CT 06111  
Deluca Construction Company, The  
27 Crescent Street :  
P.O. Box 2186»  
Stamford, CT 06906  
J. DeLuca Construction Co., Inc.  
414 Greenfield Street  
Fairfield, CT 06430  
Dexter IL, Inc., B.W.  
556 Westcott Rd.  
_ Danielson, CT 06239  
Frank E. Compatiy, Inge.  
200 Stanley Street  
New Britain, CT 06050  
John Filloramo Const. Company, Inc.  
82 Glendale Rd.  
South Windsor, CT 06074  
«ot 4) Giordano Construction: Co., es te.  
sey ps  
babe a, : P.O; Box: 802: ° eo be woe pT  
Branford, CF 06405";  
Vay  
OK tea!  
Industrial Cohstruction Conipany,; Inc.  
752 North Mountain Road  
USE OT, “Newington, CT 06141- 1490.  
+ cig The Joseph F. Kelly ¢ Co., Inc.~:  
284 Front Avenue sey  
1, West  
it.- 1 sLembardo Bros. Mason Contactors, Ane.  
121 Elliott Street East  
Hartford, Cr 061 14  
fey idl Marshall & Sons ies 5 L.  
- + P.O. Box 2210 -  
Pawtucket, RI 02861 |  
| Marshall & Sons, Inc., J L.  
3: Clara Street  
_ Seekok;-MA.02771  
Mercede & Sons, Inc., Frank  
860 Canal Street  
Stamford, CT 06902  
_ Milazzo & Company, 8.G.  
148 Dividend Rd.  
Rocky Hill, CT 06067  
ma  
C.H. Nickerson & Co... Inc.  
“PO Box:808 7. tere os 4  
Torrington, CT 06790 ee  
O & G Industries, Ihe  
PO Box 907)  
Torrington, CT 06790  
River Pile & Foundation Co., Inc.  
73 Alexander St.  
Yonkers, NY 10701  
  
Standard Builders; nc, pe  
52 Holmes Rd.  
Newington,  
Taylor Precast, Inc. eee OME  
120 Highwoods Drive  
phe “ee aif  
Tomlinson-Hawley-Patterson, Inc. -  
2225 Reservoir 2 0  
Trumbull, CT 06611  
3 5  
"4.  
  
:  
. a o>  
»?t  
  
4 é  
  
+ +  
‘  
os :  
‘  
:  
i  
  
ae  
1?  
va  
;  
i #6  
No  
  
  
.  
  
  
  
+  
  
.  
  
o& -  
i  
‘  
a  
  
  
e  
  
i  
AB i  
  
  
‘ot  
Ve  
;  
diy?  
qt.  
t  
  
a  
4  
ray  
wait .  
“  
  
#  
4  
  
  
j  
  
i  
ete  
mt  
  
  
v  
24  
t  
‘  
ee  
: ‘  
“  
oe  
  
  
a  
+  
De  
'  
, €  
fed  
ff  
Ny  
  
“«  
4  
  
gow  
fas?  
4  
‘  
'  
~-  
“  
cer  
‘  
  
ut  
wr  
  
‘  
  
Sa  
  
  
  
  
+  
1  
‘i \  
i,  
  
ta  
  
5 a  
Ayes  
t  
‘af  
is  
7  
8? sad  
hos  
my  
wet  
i  
  
### APPENDIX "A"  
TENDERS: Tending masons, plasterers,  
carpenters and other building and construction  
crafts.  
Tending shall consist of preparation of materials  
and the handling and conveying of materials to be  
used by mechanics of other crafts, whether such  
preparation is by hand or any other process. After  
the material has been prepared, tending shall  
include the supplying and conveying of said  
material and other materials to such mechanic,  
whether by bucket, hod, wheelbarrow, buggy, or  
other motorized unit used for such purpose,  
fork lifts.  
Unloading, handling and distribution of all  
materials, fixtures, furnishings and appliances  
from point of delivery to stockpiles and from  
stockpiles to approximate point of installation.  
Drying of plaster, concrete, mortar or other  
aggregate, when done by salamander heat or any  
other drying process.  
Cleaning and clearing ofall debris, including wire  
brushing of windows, scraping of floors, removal  
of surplus material from all fixtures within  
confines of structure and cleaning of all debris in  
building and construction area. The general  
cleanup, including sweeping, cleaning, washdown  
and wiping of construction facility, equipment and  
furnishings and removal and loading or burning of  
all debris including crates, boxes, packaging waste  
material. Washing or cleaning of walls, partitions,  
ceilings, windows, bathrooms, kitchens,  
laboratory, and all fixtures and facilities therein.  
Clean-up, mopping, washing, waxing and  
polishing or dusting of all floors or areas.  
The aging and curing of concrete, mortar and  
other materials applied to walls, floors, ceilings  
and foundations of buildings and structures,  
highways, airports, overpasses and underpasses,,  
25  
tunnels, bridges, approaches, viaducts, ramps or  
other similar surfaces by any moede-osimethod.  
### CARPENTER TENDERS »  
Cords and Power Tools:  
The laying out and picking up of and power  
tools used by the carpenter is the work of the  
laborers (in its entirety)... 5,  
Sheet Rock, Wallboard and Metal Studs  
   
The unloading, handling and distributing. of sheet  
rock, wallboard and metal studs from the point of  
delivery to the stockpile and from the stockpile to  
the approximate point of installation is the work  
of the laborers (in its entirety).  
   
Cleaning of Debris:  
The cleaning and clearing of all debris caused by  
the installation of the sheet rock, wallboard, and  
metal studs by the carpenter is the work of the  
laborers (in its entirety).  
   
The Unloading of Ceiling and Floor Tiles:  
The unloading, handling and distribution of  
ceiling and floor tiles from the point of delivery to  
the stockpile and from the stockpile to the  
approximate point of installation is the work of  
the laborers (in its entirety).  
   
Metal Doors and Metal Door Bucks:  
. The unloading, handling and stockpiling of metal  
doors and door bucks from the point of delivery to  
the stockpile and from the stockpile to the  
approximate point of installation is the work of  
the laborers (in its entirety).  
   
Scsffolding:  
Where self-suppotting scaffolding 0 or steging o over  
14 ft. in height or specially desigried scaffolds are  
built by carpentérs; “laborers: shall such  
carpenters on erection, therefore, the dismantling  
of such the preparation for  
foundation or mud sills for such scaffolding and  
maintenance ‘of same shall:be done. by the  
laborers. When working with mason and plaster  
contractors, the unloading, handling and building  
of seaffolds in: ‘its entirety 1 is. ues wore of the  
laborers. of, PO ae LA arte,  
   
Pand  
The unloading’ of of patel forms: from thé point of  
delivery to the stockpile and from the stockpile to  
the approximate’point of installation.is the work  
of the laborers. The cleaning and oiling er sais  
| forms 1 is the: work of ae laborers.  
   
The erection and releasing of the forms up: ‘until  
the final stage when the forms are not'to be reused  
‘in Its original form ’is the work of the carpenters.  
The final stripping, cleaning, oiling and loading of  
the belongs to eae laborers its entirety).  
   
Flat Arch Strippi ng. a  
Flat-arch stripping if in its entirety i is the work of the  
| laborers, ,  
Asbestos Removal afd Encapsulation’ °~.  
Sub- ‘Debris:  
The cleaning and clearing of all debris by a all sub-  
contractors working within the confines ofthe  
building is’ "the work: of the laborers: Ga its  
entirety). | a wb ES  
   
“SCAFFOLDS: 1, planking and renioval of  
- all scaffolds for lathers,-plasterers, bricklayers,  
masons other’ : construction’ trades’ chafts.  
_ Building, planking or installation and removal of  
all staging, swinging: and» hanging ‘ seaffolds,  
including maintenance 7  
### EXCAVATIONS AND FOUNDATIONS, SITE  
### PREPARATION AND CLEARANCE  
   
   
+26  
### LINES”  
### TRAN SEOREATION | AND TRANSMISSION  
for building an and all other o conatructio on:  
digging of trenches, ’ foundations and holes;  
digging; lagging, sheeting, cribbing, bracing. and  
propping. «of foundations, holes;... caissons,  
cofferdams, dams,.dikes:and irrigation trenches,  
canals, :and all filling and placing: of  
sand. “bags..connected therewith. All : drilling,  
blasting on the site.or along theright-  
oway,: as access .roads,. reservoirs,  
including: areasi~  
-cr..  
site; of. temporary  
eu “Tope  
She ot  
Preparation: « and - conipacting Of roadbeds. ‘for  
railtoad truck: laying, hi construction and  
“the ‘preparation of.  
“cross-country transmission by pipetines or electric  
transmission or 7 underground lines or reables: :  
footings, etc: for  
On-sité preparation and right-of-way f for clearance  
for construction’ of any: structures or: the  
jnstallatiow of traffic-and transportation facilities  
such  
lines, dam sites and reservoir.areas,  
roads, etc. Clearing and:slashing of brush  
highways; pipelines, electrical  
or trees. by: hand .or with mechanical cutting  
methods. Blasting for all purposes, such as  
stumps, rocks, general demolition. Falling,  
bucking, -yarding, loading or burning of all trees or  
construction areas: Choker setter; off  
bearers, lumber. handlers: and.. all laborers  
connected with on-site portable sawmill  
“operations -connected:: with: clearing, . erection,  
.distnantling and/or’ reinstallation. of all fences.  
* Clean-up ‘of right-of-way, including: :tying:.on,  
‘ signaling, stacking of brush, trees, or other debris,  
cand “burning. All-: soil. test  
operations of semi and unskilled Jabor,:such as  
filling of sand bags, handling of and  
loading and ots  
### CONCRETE BITUMINOUS CONCRETE AND  
### a AGGREGATES* a  
  
= (a) Concrete: ‘bituminous ‘or edoresates  
« for walls; footings; foundations, floors or for any  
other construction.. Mixing; handling;.com eying,  
pouring, vibrating, gunniting and otherwise  
placing concrete or aggregates ‘whether. done by  
hand or any other process. Wrecking, stripping,  
dismantling and handling concrete forms and false  
Building: of '.centers'': for.’ fireproofing  
purposes. Operation of motorized  
or buggies .or: machines charactet,  
whether. run:.by: gas, dieselor electric: power.  
When.-concrete: or aggregates are com dyed’ by  
crane or.derrick: or the.  
on, signaling, dumping and unhooking the bucket.  
Placing of concrete or ageregates, whether poursd,  
pumped,:gunnited, erplaced by any other process.  
‘Fhe assembly, uncoupling of all.connections. and  
parts of or to: equipment ‘used in:  
eying concrete, aggregates or mortar, and the  
cleaning) isuch ; parts and/or  
-connections:.‘All vibratirig;. grinding, spreading,  
‘flowing, leveling and -strike-off3.af  
concrete or aggregates by floating, rodding .or  
screening, by hand ormechanical to  
. finishing. Where pre-stressed or pre-cast concrete  
Slabs, .'waHs or ‘sections are: sed;- all- loading,  
unloading, stockpiling; hiooking,-or..signaling,  
-unhooking, setting and barring into place.of such  
‘slabs, walls or sections. All mixing, handling, com  
eying, placing and. spreading-of. grout; for any  
_ purpose. Green cutting of concrete or aggregate in  
_any: form, by na; means, grindstones  
or air or water.” errs  
ea" 8  
a (b): The: filling and patching’ of voids, orevices,  
to correct ‘defects in. conerete 2 iby  
bulging, sagging, ete. «:  
; (c} The loading, unloading; camying, distributing  
and handling of:all:rods; mesh and miaterial for  
. use in reinforéimg concrete: The  
hoisting‘of rods, other: materials except  
when aderrick operated by: otherthan  
aan pee Cage  
| PO Mo  
(a) All work on: interior columns,  
foundations for engine and machinery beds.  
ee a Se BES ep  
©) The stripping of forms other than panet- forms  
which are to be re-used in their original form, and  
. the stripping -of forms: on all; flat:arch: werk. ‘The  
moving, cleaning, oiling, and of all. ferms  
to the next paint of neh PS  
9 AE a.  
ae] ee Come ¢  
te de “tia Lid ae Mrs of Gti  
### WELLL  
7  
sgl  
The snapping of wall ties and removal of tie rods.  
Handling, placing and operation of the nozzle,  
hoses. and:pots orhoppers-on sandblasting or other  
abrasive cleaning. The jacking. ef slip forms, on  
all semi and: unskilled ‘work connestted therewith.  
   
Work.: in preparation, concreting,  
asphalt’ bituminous! concrete, and-naastic paying,  
paving; ramming, curbing, flagging and surfacing  
of streets, ways, courts, underpasses, overpasses,  
bridges, approaches and slope walls and..the  
grading and landscaping thereof and all other  
labor connected therewith. Cleaning, grading,  
fence or guard rail installation and/or removal for  
Streets; highways,, roadways, aprons, runways,  
sidewalks, parking-areas, airports, approaches.and  
other...  
construction and. maintenange’ or roadbeds and  
, similar; -:ipstallations, . , Preparation,  
sub-grades for all. paving, including. excavation,  
dumping and spreading of sub-grades material,  
otherwise. compacting. , Setting,  
‘leveling: and- securing, or bracing metal ‘or other  
road: forms expansion joints, including  
placing of-reinforcing, mats-or:wire mesh, for the  
above-;;. work.. Leading, unloading, - placing,  
handling and spreading of concrete aggregate or  
paving materials, including leveling of the  
-surface.. Sttike-off of - conerete, when used as  
paving material by hand and floating or  
“mechanical screening for strike-off. Cutting of  
concrete for,expansion joints and other purposes.  
Setting of curb forms and the mixing, pouring,  
curing, flowing and strike-off of concrete used  
therefore. The setting, leveling and grouting of all  
-pré-cast:, concrete stone: curb sections.  
Anstallation of all: joints; removal of forms. and  
cleaning, stacking, loading, oiling and handling.  
Grading and landscaping in connection with  
, paving ; work. .All-;work::in. connection ». with  
loading;- unloading, handling, signaling. slinging  
-and. setting. of ‘all, paving, blocks, .rip-rap_,or  
retaining, walls.‘such:-as stone, woad, metal,  
-concrete or other: a and. the preparation of  
surfaces to receive: same...  
{  
### TRENCHES, MANHOLES, HANDLING. AND  
### DISTRIBUTION OF PIPE, ETC...  
   
Cutting of streets and ways for laying. of pipes,  
cables or conduits for all purposes; digging of  
trenches, manholes, etc: handling and com eying  
all materials: concreting, backfilling, grading and  
resurfacing and all other labor .connected  
therewith. Clearing and site preparation as  
described herein: Cutting.or jackhammering of  
streets, roads, sidewalks or aprons by hand or the  
use: of ait or other tools. Digging of trenches,  
ditches and manholes and the leveling, loading,  
‘unloading, stockpiling, wrapping, coating,  
treating, handling and distribution of water mains,  
gas mains and all pipe, including placing, setting  
and removal of skids. Cribbing, driving of sheet  
piling, lagging and shoring of all ditches, trenches  
and manholes. Handling, mixing or pouring of  
concrete and the’handling ‘and: placing of: other  
materials for saddles, beds or foundations for the  
protection. of pipes, wires, conduits,’ . etc.  
Backfilling and. “compacting of all>-ditches,  
resurfacing of road, streets, etc., and/or restoration  
of lawns and landscaping.  
### SHAFTS TUNNELS, ‘SUBWAYS AND  
| SEWERS | Pane lg  
   
Construction of sewer, shafts, tunnels,. subways,  
caissons, cofferdams, dikes, dams, levees,  
aqueduicts, ‘culverts, flood control projects. and  
airports. Adi underground: work. involved ‘in  
‘mines, underground chambers for storage or other  
purposes, tunnels or shafts for any’ purpose,  
‘whether in free or air. Drilling and  
blasting, mucking and material from  
the tunnels and shafts. The cutting; drilling and  
installation of. material .used.for- timbering or  
‘retimbering, “lagging,. bracing, propping,” ‘or  
shoring. the shaft. “ Assembly. and  
installation of multiplaté; liner; plate, ririgs; mesh,  
mats, or forms for any tunnel or shaft, inciuding  
the setting of rods for same. Pouring, pump-  
creting or gunniting of concrete. in-any tunnel or  
shaft. Operations, manual or hydraulic jacking of  
“shields and the use: of such: other ‘mechanical  
- ‘equipment as may Excavation or  
digging and-grading of footings and foundations  
for bridges, overpasses, underpasses, aqueducts,  
28  
operators,  
‘operators, keyboard. operators, placer  
etc..and their. approaches. All concrete work. as.  
described above in. addition, the hooking on,  
signaling and: dumping:of concrete. ‘for tremie  
work over water on.caissons, pilings, abutments,  
etc: Excavation, grading, grade  
landscaping of ‘approaches: Installation of: pipe,  
gratings: and: grill: work’. for..drains or other  
purposes.. Installation of well points or any other  
dewatering system. © | ee  
### COMPRESSED AR  
Pe  
In coinpressed 2 air all. work underground 0 orin  
‘compression chambers, including tending of the  
outer work in. compressed air  
‘construction, : including,:~ but ..not: ‘limited. to,  
groutmen,. trackmen, ‘blasters, shield. drivers,  
‘miners, brakemen;-miner's:-helpers, lock tenders,  
‘mucking. machine. operators, motor men, gauge  
tenders, rodmen,;  
setting of liner plate and ring sets, drill runners,  
powdermién or blasters, air hoist operators, form  
men, concrete blower’ operators, cement (insert)  
power knife operators, erector  
operators, car grout machine operators,  
steel setters, skinners, track layers,  
dumpmen, diamond drillers, timbermen and  
retimbermen, cherry. nippers,  
chuckbenders :and: tenders, . vibratormen,  
jetgunmen, gunnite: nozzlemen, reboundmen and  
| val other work connected therewith 5°  
   
### MULTPLATE  
Unloading, sorting, stockpiling, wrapping,  
coating, . treating; handling and  
Jowering: or raising of-all pipe or multiplate. All  
digging, driving of sheet piling, lagging, bracing,  
? shoringiand - éribbing: breaking’ .of concrete  
tamping, resurfacing and paving of all  
ditches.in ‘preparation. for the laying ofall pipe.  
laying, leveling and making: of the joint of  
for main:or side sewers and storm  
“sewers. ©  
vitrified concrete or-other pipe-arid the  
. tnaking of joints or side.sewers an sterm  
:sewers: and all pipe for drainage. Unloading,  
handling; distribution, assembly in place, bolting  
-All of the laying of clay, terra cotta,  
t  
and: lining ‘or. other ‘pipe;  
including corrugated pipe, ductile iron, carbon  
stéél, plastic,: concrete; .stgel,.steel lined ‘concrete  
and Laying of lateral sewer pipe from  
main sewer or sewer to building or stricture  
except that employer may direct that this work be  
done (Referee  
Hutchinson's decision.): . and  
making of the joint of all multipurpose pipe or  
multi-cell conduit. Cutting of holes in walls,  
footings, piers or other obstructions the  
passage of pipe or conduit for any purpose or  
other. obstructions from the ot  
cconduit:.fer any ‘putpose..and the : pousing,-af ©  
conérete to..secure ‘said holes. Digging under  
Streets; roadways, aprons or other paved surfaces  
for the passage of pipe, by hand, earth auger. or  
‘any: othet -method. and..manual and. hydraulic  
jacking of:pipe under satd surfaces: Installationiof  
septic tanks, cesspools‘and drain fields.  
### SUNDERPINNING. LAGGING, .. BRACING  
### PROPPING AND SHORING” le  
Underpinning, tagging, bracing; 1 propping and  
shoring,: raising and moving of all structures;  
of structure by:manual.:or hydraulic jacks  
or other methods. . All work on house moving,  
shoring and underpinning  
signaling, right-of-way. clearance along the.route  
of movement.: Resetting of: structure in. new  
location to include all site clearing, excavation for  
foundation and concrete work. Cleanup & and  
backfilling; landscaping old’ ands new site...  
vy Fo  
of es  
### DRILLING AND BLASTING  
tt Bayes  
   
All work. of j a1 and blasting,  
Operations’ ‘of - all drills,  
including handling; carrying, laying out.of hosés,  
steel handling; installation ofialt temporary: lines  
and handling and laying of.all blasting mats: .All  
work in connection: with ‘blasting; yhandling and  
storage “of: explosives,:: cariying  
blasting, -loading: holes; ‘setting fuses;  
primers ‘and ‘exploding charges. : All securing. of  
surfaces with wire mesh and any: other:material  
and setting of necessary-bolts.and rods)to- anchor  
‘same. All high scaling and, other: rock breaking  
_.and blast. Handling:and. laying;of  
nets « and other . safety. and: Signaling,  
flagging, road guarding...‘ CEE |  
wet meee ee  
SIGNAL MEN rps glee 7  
Pg are  
seo  
et at  
Signal men. on.-all, construction, work, defined  
herein; including, traffic. seontred 0 men at  
construction sites. EPpy  
   
Fhe: clearing, filling, .backfilling,  
grading’ and). laridscaping -of -all,. sites. for all  
all labor’: therewith,  
including chairmen, rodmen; grade markers, etc.  
Te a net 2s, fos em  
i fan = pate be Se eh OL  
. ‘  
a *  
safe . -  
### FACTORIES | be ag  
: : :  
= © By ae i!  
“All work in 1 , mills and. industrial plants  
performed: now or as may be-aequired hereafter,  
including packers, cutters, loaders, raw materials  
unloaders; . checkers, stuffers, production line  
personnel and-stenciling of materials. Handling of  
raw pigment; vessels:.cleaners .and/or dryers;  
washing ofr cleaning | laboratory, - glassware;  
stocking of materials in laboratories; the cleaning  
and/or scrubbing, washing, polishing ofall floors,  
glasses, windows, walls, rest rooms and furniture.  
Material yards, junk yards, plants, congtete  
_products. piants, cemeteries, landscape nurseries  
-and the:cleaning and reconditioning of streets,  
‘ways,.sewers and water lines and all maintenance  
. work. of an. unskilled and semiskilled  
, Nature; ..including laborers. in  
' cleaners,  
shipyards, tank  
. ship, . shipwright , helpers,  
-watchmen, flagmen, guards;. security. and ‘safety  
_man,. tool room: men,-part, sports arena and. all  
recreational center eniployees, utilities employees,  
horticultural and agricultural workers, and.  
 débris handlers and . |  
ane |e Poe  
   
as t  
ri. ca  
  
. All drillers, powdermen, nippers,  
- signalmen, laborers in,,quarries, crushed stone  
yards, and. gravel and. sand pits and  
Ios  
eg + Pees ea  
3 4 Nee  
Pati ® J ete  
plants, including temporary and portable Batching  
Plants.  
### WRECKING  
The wrecking or dismantling of buildings and all  
structures. Breaking away roof materials, beams ©  
of ail kinds; with use of cutting orother wrecking. —  
tools.as necessary. Burning or otherwise cutting  
all steel structural bearns. Breaking away, cleaning .. .  
and removal of all masonry and wood or metal.  
fixtures for salvage or scrap. All hooking on and  
unhooking and signaling when materials for  
salvage or scrap are removed by crane or derrick.  
All loading and unloading of materials carried  
away from. the site of wrecking. All work in  
salvage or junk yards ia connection with cutting,  
cleaning, storing, stockpiling or handling of  
materials. . All: clean-up,. removal of debris,  
burning, backfilling and landscaping of the site of  
wrecked structure.  
### RAILROAD TRACK WORK  
Right-of-way clearance as described above,  
excavation, grading, subgrading, ballasting and  
compacting of right-of-way. Loading, unloading  
stockpiling, handling and distribution of track and  
ties and placing of or jacking track and ties at  
point of installation. All burning or otherwise  
cutting of track. Setting of tie plates, bolting,  
leveling and gauging of rails and all spiking,  
whether by hand or mechanical means. Placing  
and tamping of ballast by hand or mechanical  
means. Construction and/or relocation of  
mainlines, shoe flies, sidings, grading, crossing,  
relocation of pipes and drainage and culverts  
connected with same and removal and replacing  
of all fences. | |  
### STUDIO UTILITY EMPLOYEES  
All such work as herein described as may be  
pertinent to and part of the operation of Motion  
Picture and other related types of studios.  
### USE OF TOOLS  
Operation of all hand, pneumatic, electric, motor,  
combustion or air-driven tools or equipment  
necessary for the performance of work described  
herein.  
### HEATERS  
Fgh  
All Laborers work in connection with heaters  
> » being. aed by: a ‘Propane tank,  
### ‘MISCEL LLANEOUS:  
fl eg Tei.  
‘such: work and jurisdiction as: have been  
acquired by reason of amalgamation or merger  
with former national or international unions and  
as may be hereafter acquired; including all such  
_ work and jurisdiction as declared by actions of the  
Executive Council or. converiions: of the  
© American Federation at. Labor.)  
30  
dea eo mn Fh a Pay,  
Letter of Understanding  
April 1, 2002 20 ESS  
mide Liter (CCLMO)  
at ype “4 a iy ees 3 e ag - de. CL, ey! meee a _ a weg a  
ret Ae BT  
T he oarties agree that ore cent it (1 ¢) of the: eleven cent a 1) ‘Assockatio Pro gram Fund: contribution. in  
Article XII of the 2002-2005 Building Agreement will by the Association to the work-.of the  
### Connecticut Construction Labor Management Council (CCLMC):: However, upon written mutual.agreement  
by the parties or by the Business Manager of the Laborers District. and ne “Vice Labor  
Relations of ‘the. Association; the one cent: allocation snail cease. day,  
ye ta re I tea ~ .  
‘ er ls ade et ch { i fit  
a t 2%  
} a ;  
5 oy oor i  
r! ‘ 4 i if 4 fry ok TY { i. § eg din ba bh : Xu  
¢ t I ry wth fs ‘yi i Coy  
: 4 ' : ook  
é .  
~  
oo aoa SS. s. Chatles LeGonche St fie  
### AGC/CCIA BUILDING CONT RACTORS LABOR CONNECTICUT - LABORERS': ‘DISTRICT  
### DIVISION OF CONNECTICUT, INC. OF THE LABORERS' —  
### Eo, ‘UNION. OF. NORTH  
> AMERICA. Lo “al Ths 2 tg  
an tf  
4 a  
“ . t  
i sot  
5. vf  
= ‘ Jail {  
. i? i  
so  
? cu  
a al 4  
a  
i  
| He =  
Py oe  
  
i  
{ fy  
fn)  
. we PLS  
5 oe vf  
“Hee “s ello og  
of. i  
- Palen)  
"  
aoe 1 x 4+  
aon vs Pde Ne :  
t ‘ ty  
2g  
reek.  
### . LABORERS BUILDING. INDEX  
Subject a Num  
### ACCIGENE 9, He  
Accident 9, 12° Bo Bape  
Adjustment of Disputes  
Alcohol Testing... LO ou  
Annuity Fund. ............. oN a  
Appendix A -  
Apprentice and Training D5 13...  
Apprentice Program  
no 19°  
Association .........  
Association Program ..3.../... 17-  
Association Menbershin 1, 15, 18.93" BS Gee es  
Attorney's Fees........... LAL  
Bituminous Concrete |  
Blasting . Jk ye ee Dy 26, 271-29:  
Board of Adjustment... LQ,  
Bracing....... He se re 8, 26- 29. .  
Bridges  
Business Manager, Field Representatives, Stewards, FOreMeN LD  
Carpenter Tenders Teens sai 4, 25.  
Carpenters, State Council  
Carryover Of Wage  
Check eee L561 8° 00  
Classification of Employees AED.  
Clean up Rate............. ves suten  
Clothes  
Coffee Break ............. TD  
Compressed Air Querations. a 2.28  
Concrete and Aggregates 26 .  
Conditions of Agreement........... sind sian ied aa ome 1, 3, 11-12, 18,.20-21. .  
Connecticut Laborers District Council ...... 1,22.  
Cords and Power Tools..... 25°:  
Culverts weaves 2, 30. .  
Debris, cleaning Up 8,  
Delinquent Payments .  
Discharge bs hid Wendie Sd ene ne gated een 3, 4, ads 12°:  
ed fet wos  
Disputes, Procedure and Adjustment 18-19.  
Doors and Door Bucks, Metal ae  
DEES owes Sti eons 4 va we se 85:28"  
Drilling and Blasting... anes 28-29  
Drinking Water ........... mun bed em sa wm 11  
Drug Testing ............. OT ee ee 12.  
Dues Check . 15-18,  
Dues Deduction Authorization stevens. 16.  
Duration of Agreement 21...  
32  
Employer, Definition wl  
Employer, Liability (see Liability)  
Employer's Remittance we l7  
Excavations and Foundations 20  
Factories.. SOP SRE TEE EE OOD DUM SEHD OUR EMS DE OO Bete nis ees O's O'S OH OO Ree B48 8 0's vee 2D se F  
eae  
Flat Arch iia an clr el eee re ee re ee cer ae 26  
Foremen .. sb HN Wen KERHD ENE US BoA ined EDy LO:  
Forms @see kh. roar = 15, 17, 26-27, 28 we  
Field Representative. ne  
Foundations... CFR OTOH ET EE EHD TUK VES 8, 25- 28." mh,  
Fringe Benefit Funds... Ne hd Tin 218, 15.3  
Funds (See Payment to Funds and Specitie Pans). ne |  
Government or Private Limitations... sid Rik ion dd Fetes we  
Oy 27, 29- 30..  
Grievances and Dy LOw2Q |  
Health, Safety and Weltare.... anos eee eet.  
Health Funnd LO |  
Heaters sn 30 13 ae  
Heavy-Highway, Tunsel and Utility Apscement vu. sa wisi |  
Hiring dy A  
Holidays as eins Dy Oy  
Hours of Work and Shift Operations. +6, 9-10...  
3  
Inclement Weather  
Independent 18. .  
Interest Penalties view a ares 13214.  
Intermediate Classification re  
International Agreement... S55 Sink «a:  
Jacking Pipe wooed wed ’ ‘  
Jurisdiction, 9 , 14, 22, 30  
Jurisdictional 9  
Labor Management Cooperation Trust Fund 16.  
Laborers Political League — ee 0  
Lagging ole! wevetevus besavene TSH SEES Voenvebeseotsvecsss 8, 28,  
Lay off wevecee 11, 12."  
Legal Services oy 13, 15.  
Letters of Understanding 22,31.  
slate SL).  
rhe  
Law eet’ 1,18. .  
  
Market Recovery ..... Oy 22%  
Membership in Good SEN 23,  
No-strike (See Work Stoppages) Lo ea  
Notification ............... i i Ulead aos Gis 26; 7, 10:  
Occupational Safety and Health ACE 1D.  
Overtime Hours and Work... 56 une unk sn enon LD  
Panel Form 272:  
Parties fo Agreement WS SSE bd SAS EBERT cine avi  
Payment of Union Duss . sea 12, 13, 15- 16, .18  
Payment of Wages.... Oy LL, LS...  
Payment to Funds. i 14,  
Payroll Deduction  
### OCTET SSE SSE ORDO PROUT CHSHRE SHH EO EL  
— 33  
. 4%,  
ee Ste x  
Oe ECE ODO OS Soe be  
*y  
3 jae  
ey  
  
re.  
ade  
¢  
  
Pension Fund.............. boy 15,17  
Pipelayers  
Pits, Yards, Quarries, etc... aes aD:  
Preamble Ll  
Pre-Job veces a = -  
Pre-filed Bid Oy T  
Procedure for Adjustment of Disputes nn 18  
Propping...... divs eu "36 28, 29 |  
Protection of Rights 3  
de  
DO oo |  
Quitting vinnie TALE  
Railroad Track Work ............ Abas nen desig OU  
Raingear and Slipover  
  
tere  
Records and Reports ....... 10, 172s  
### GERD  
Rehire PORES sovese toeenveave woe TS ros  
Reporting Time Pay esses 10  
Safety 4,12,29.  
Salamanders ........... 9,10  
Saturday Work ener sen 5,6  
### SCALPOIS QO  
Schedule I - Companies Bound to the 1996- 1999 Agreement 23  
Scope of Agreement.............. dn ]  
Setting and Stripping Forms 26-28  
Several 18  
Sewers, Drains, Culverts, a 28  
Shafts and Tunnels, Subways and Sewers we 28  
01 te 4,5, 9- 10, 14  
Signal Ante Sis anes 29  
Site TS wd she er isn 26, 28  
Starting Time 5,7, 10, 22  
Stewards vee 12  
Streets, Ways and 1, 29  
Strikes non se an ti 47 Kas Hes 1, 9, 18  
Studio 30  
weed, 20  
dy 4, 15, 20  
A Hse Ks 28  
Sunday Work........... 5, 6, 8  
Teamsters Joint Council No. 6  
Telephone vases sae eon 10  
4,25  
Territorial Jurisdiction god etc ee eee eres 2, 12, 13  
Third Party Beneficiary 18  
Tiles, Ceiling and FIOOr GBA BZ DO  
Totlets 11  
Tools, Clothing, 11  
TOxic Waste 5,9  
Trade 30  
34  
eee  
t  
Traffic Control Signalman 54 4  
Training 13, 14.  
Transportation and Transmission, LANES 20  
Trenches, Manholes, Handling and. Distribution ot Fine. eines By 28  
Trustees Of LOTLD | «  
Tunnels and Shafts in Free or Compressed Air... 28.  
Underpinning, Lagging, Bracing, Propping and. SHOT. sa 2d .  
Unemployment rt  
Union(s) and Local Unions ..... SOME l, 2  
Union Liability.. EOE ER EHH 15.  
Union Recognition, Union and, 2.  
cor  
eee  
Union  
Union Security..........  
Wage Rates and Classifications... 4, 3:  
Work Day........... "7, 10, 12  
Work Stoppages.. a 9,10, 18  
DO, 30  
wy  
7 ah ee we  
we baee ewe  
‘  
\ ‘ { i’.  
a  
qr  
  
woe  
a”.  
awe ea tw oe wm  
%  
  
ty  
a  
7  
  
‘  
ai  
2  
  
OC 2 wa ow © SERS aca  
4  
; ea  
. te  
wl J  
; 4  
te:  
‘i  
wif  
Ne ai  
™~ -  
. 4  
eee em  
7 4  
E ROE ea spe De  
Wage Payment ay, 4, LT, 18  
7 ©. -  
im io ae OG  
wake Phe ge ‘  
   
   
   
 